... But yet, am I happy because V. and his books teach me to think? The time was, when a spirited
steed, a costly sabre, a good gun, delighted me like a child. Now, that I know the superiority
of mind over body, my former pride in shooting or horsemanship appears to me ridiculous--nay,
even contemptible. Is it worth while to devote oneself to a trade, in which the meanest broad-shouldered
noúker can surpass me?... Is it worth while to seek honour and happiness, of which the first
wound may deprive me--the first awkward leap? They have taken from me this plaything, but with
what have they replaced it?... With new wants, with new wishes, which Allah himself can neither
weary nor satisfy. I thought myself a man of consequence; but now I am convinced of my own
nothingness. Formerly, to my memory, my grandfather and great-grandfather were at the beginning
of the night of the past, with its stories and dreaming traditions.... The Caucasus contained
my world, and I peacefully slept in that night. I thought to be famous in Daghestán--the height
of glory. And what then? History has peopled my former desert with nations, shattering each
other for glory; with heroes, terrifying the nations by valour to which we can never rise.
And where are they? Half forgotten, they have vanished in the dust of ages. The description
of the earth shows me that the Tartars occupy a little corner of the world; that they are miserable
savages in comparison with the European nations; and that of the existence, not only of their
brave warriors, but of the whole nation, nobody thinks, nobody knows, nobody wishes to know.
It is worth while to be a glow-worm amongst insects. Was it worth while to expand my mind,
in order to be convinced of such a bitter truth?

       *       *       *       *       *

What is the use of a knowledge of the powers of nature to me, when I cannot change my soul,
master my heart? The sea teaches me to build dykes--but I cannot restrain my tears!... I can
conduct the lightning from the roof, but I cannot throw off my sorrows! Was I not unhappy enough
from my feelings alone, without calling around me my thoughts, like greedy vultures? What does
the sick man gain by knowing that his disease is incurable?... The tortures of my hopeless
love have become sharper, more piercing, more various, since my intellect has been enlightened.

       *       *       *       *       *

No! I am unjust. Reading shortens for me the long winter-like night--the hours of separation.
In teaching me to fix on paper my flying thoughts, V. has given me a heartfelt enjoyment. Some
day I shall meet Seltanetta, and I shall show her these pages; in which her name is written
oftener than that of Allah in the Korán. "These are the annals of my heart," I shall say: "Look!
on such a day thus thought about you--on such a night, I saw you thus in my dreams! By these
little leaves, as by a string of diamond beads, you may count my sighs, my tears for you."
O lovely, and beloved being! you will often smile at my strange phantasies--long will they
supply matter for our conversations. But, by your side, enchantress, shall I be able to remember
the past?... No, no!... Every thing before me, every thing around me, will then fade away,
except the present bliss--to be with you! O, how burning, and how light will my soul be! Liquid
sunshine will flow in my veins--I shall float in heaven, like the sun! To forget all by your
side is a bliss prouder than the highest wisdom!

       *       *       *       *       *

I have read stories of love, of the charms of woman--of the perfidy of man--but no heroine
approaches my Seltanetta in loveliness of soul or body--not one of the heroes do I resemble--I
envy them the fascination, I admire the wisdom of lovers in books--but then, how weak, how
cold is their love! It is a moonbeam playing on ice! Whence come these European babblers of
Tharsis--these nightingales of the market-place--these sugared confections of flowers? I cannot
believe that people can love passionately, and prate of their love--even as a hired mourner
laments over the dead. The spendthrift casts his treasure by handfuls to the wind; the lover
hides it, nurses it, buries it in his heart like a hoard.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am yet young, and I ask "what is friendship?" I have a friend in V.--a loving, real, thoughtful
friend; yet I am not his friend. I feel it, I reproach myself that I do not reciprocate his
regard as I ought, as he deserves--but is in my power? In my soul there is no room for any
one but Seltanetta--in my heart there is no feeling but love.

       *       *       *       *       *

No! I cannot read, I cannot understand what the Colonel explains to me. I cheated myself when
I thought that the ladder of science could be climbed by me ... I am weary at the first steps,
I lose my way on the first difficulty, I entangle the threads, instead of unravelling them--I
pull and tear them--and I carry off nothing of the prey but a few fragments. The hope which
the Colonel held out to me I mistook for my own progress. But who--what--impedes this progress?
That which makes the happiness and misery of my life--love. In every place, in every thing,
I hear and see Seltanetta--and often Seltanetta alone. To banish her from my thoughts I should
consider sacrilege; and, even if I wished, I could not perform the resolution. Can I see without
light? Can I breathe without air? Seltanetta is my light, my air, my life, my soul!

       *       *       *       *       *

My hand trembles--my heart flutters in my bosom. If I wrote with my blood, 'twould scorch the
paper. Seltanetta! your image pursues me dreaming or awake. The image of your charms is more
dangerous than the reality. The thought that I may never possess them, touch them, see them,
perhaps, plunges me into an incessant melancholy--at once I melt and burn. I recall each lovely
feature, each attitude of your exquisite person--that little foot, the seal of love, that bosom,
the gem of bliss! The remembrance of your voice makes my soul thrill like the chord of an instrument--ready
to burst from the clearness of its tone--and your kiss! that kiss in which I drank your soul!
It showers roses and coals of fire upon my lonely bed--I burn--my hot lips are tortured by
the thirst for caresses--my hand longs to clasp your waist--to touch your knees! Oh, come--Oh,
fly to me--that I may die in delight, as now I do in weariness!

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Verkhóffsky, endeavouring by every possible means to divert Ammalát's grief, thought
of amusing him with a boar-hunt, the favourite occupation of the Beks of Daghestán. In answer
to his summons, there assembled about twenty persons, each attended by his noúkers, each eager
to try his fortune, or to gallop about the field and vaunt his courage. Already had grey December
covered the tops of the surrounding mountains with the first-fallen snow. Here and there in
the streets of Derbénd lay a crust of ice, but over it the mud rolled in sluggish waves along
the uneven pavement. The sea lazily plashed against the sunken turrets of the walls which descended
to the water, a flock of bustards and of geese whizzed through the fog, and flew with a complaining
cry above the ramparts; all was dark and melancholy--even the dull and tiresome braying of
the asses laden with faggots for the market, sounded like a dirge over the fine weather. The
old Tartars sat in the bazárs, wrapping their shoubes over their noses. But this is exactly
the weather most favourable to hunters. Hardly had the moóllahs of the town proclaimed the
hour of prayer, when the Colonel, attended by several of his officers, the Beks of the city,
and Ammalát, rode, or rather swam, through the mud, leaving the town in the direction of the
north, through the principal gate Keerkhlár Kápi, which is covered with iron plates. The road
leading to Tárki is rude in appearance, bordered for a few paces to the right and left with
beds of madder--beyond them lie vast burying-grounds, and further still towards the sea, scattered
gardens. But the appearance of the suburbs is a great deal more magnificent than those of the
Southern ones. To the left, on the rocks were seen the Keifárs, or barracks of the regiment
of Koúrin; while on both sides of the road, fragments of rock lay in picturesque disorder,
rolled down in heaps by the violence of the mountain-torrents. A forest of ilex, covered with
hoar-frost, thickened as it approached Vellikent, and at each verst the retinue of Verkhóffsky
was swelled by fresh arrivals of Beglar and Agalar[4]. The hunting party now turned to the
left, and they speedily heard the cry of the ghayálstchiks[5] assembled from the surrounding
villages. The hunters formed into an extended chain, some on horseback, and some running on
foot; and soon the wild-boars also began to show themselves.

    [4] Lar is the Tartar plural of all substantives.

    [5] Beaters for the game.

The umbrageous oak-forests of Daghestán have served, from time immemorial, as a covert for
innumerable herds of wild hogs; and although the Tartars--like the Mussulmans--hold it a sin
not only to eat, but even to touch the unclean animal, they consider it a praiseworthy act
to destroy them--at least they practise the art of shooting on these beasts, as well as exhibit
their courage, because the chase of the wild-boar is accompanied by great danger, and requires
cunning and bravery.

The lengthened chain of hunters occupied a wide extent of ground; the most fearless marksmen
selecting the most solitary posts, in order to divide with no one else the glory of success,
and also because the animals make for those points where there are fewer people. Colonel Verkhóffsky,
confident in his gigantic strength and sure eye, posted himself in the thickest of the wood,
and halted at a small savannah to which converged the tracks of numerous wild-boars. Perfectly
alone, leaning against the branch of a fallen tree, he awaited his game. Interrupted shots
were heard on the right and left of his station; for a moment a wild-boar appeared behind the
trees; at length the bursting crash of falling underwood was heard, and immediately a boar
of uncommon size darted across the field like a ball fired from a cannon. The Colonel took
his aim, the bullet whistled, and the wounded monster suddenly halted, as if in surprise--but
this was but for an instant--he dashed furiously in the direction whence came the shot. The
froth smoked from his red-hot tusks, his eye burned in blood, and he flew at the enemy with
a grunt. But Verkhóffsky showed no alarm, waiting for the nearer approach of the brute: a second
time clicked the cock of his gun--but the powder was damp and missed fire. What now remained
for the hunter? He had not even a dagger at his girdle--flight would have been useless. As
if by the anger of fate, not a single thick tree was near him--only one dry branch arose from
the oak against which he had leaned; and Verkhóffsky threw himself on it as the only means
of avoiding destruction. Hardly had he time to clamber an arschine and a half[6] from the ground,
when the boar, enraged to fury, struck the branch with his tusks--it cracked from the force
of the blow and the weight which was supported by it.... It was in vain that Verkhóffsky tried
to climb higher--the bark was covered with ice--his hands slipped--he was sliding downwards;
but the beast did not quit the tree--he gnawed it--he attacked it with his sharp tusks a tchétverin
below the feet of the hunter. Every instant Verkhóffsky expected to be sacrificed, and his
voice died away in the lonely space in vain. No, not in vain! The sound of a horse's hoofs
was heard close at hand, and Ammalát Bek galloped up at full speed with uplifted sabre. Perceiving
a new enemy, the wild-boar turned at him, but a sideway leap of the horse decided the battle--a
blow from Ammalát hurled him on the earth.

    [6] Rather less than an English yard.

The rescued Colonel hurried to embrace his friend, but the latter was slashing, mangling, in
a fit of rage, the slain beast. "I accept not unmerited thanks," he answered at length, turning
from the Colonel's embrace. "This same boar gored before my eyes a Bek of Tabasóran, my friend,
when he, having missed him, had entangled his foot in the stirrup. I burned with anger when
I saw my comrade's blood, and flew in pursuit of the boar. The closeness of the wood prevented
me from following his track; I had quite lost him; and God has brought me hither to slay the
accursed brute, when he was on the point of sacrificing a yet nobler victim--you, my benefactor."

"Now we are quits, dear Ammalát. Do not talk of past events. This day our teeth shall avenge
us on this tusked foe. I hope you will not refuse to taste the forbidden meat, Ammalát?"

"Not I! nor to wash it down with champagne, Colonel. Without offence to Mahomet, I had rather
strengthen my soul with the foam of the wine, than with the water of the true believer."

The hunt now turned to the other side. From afar were heard cries and hallooing, and the drums
of the Tartars in the chase. From time to time shots rang through the air. A horse was led
up to the Colonel: and he, feasting his sight with the boar, which was almost cut in two, patted
Ammalát on the shoulder, crying "A brave blow!"

"In that blow exploded my revenge," answered the Bek; "and the revenge of an Asiatic is heavy."

"You have seen, you have witnessed," replied the Colonel, "how injury is avenged by Russians--that
is, by Christians; let this be not a reproach, but--a lesson to you."

And they both galloped off towards the Line.

Ammalát was remarkably absent--sometimes he did not answer at all--at others, he answered incoherently
to the questions of Verkhóffsky, by whom he rode, gazing abstractedly around him. The Colonel,
thinking that, like an eager hunter, he was engrossed by the sport, left him, and rode forward.
At last, Ammalát perceived him whom he was so impatiently expecting, his hemdjék, Saphir Ali,
flew to meet him, covered with mud, and mounted on a smoking horse. With cries of "Aleikoúm
Selam," they both jumped off their horses, and were immediately locked in each other's embrace.

"And so you have been there--you have seen her--you have spoken to her?" cried Ammalát, tearing
off his kaftán, and choking with agitation. "I see by your face that you bring good news; here
is my new tchoukhá[7] for you for that. Does she live? Is she well? Does she love me as before?"

    [7] The Tartars have an invariable custom, of taking off some
    part of their dress and giving it to the bearer of good news.

"Let me recollect myself," answered Saphir Ali. "Let me take breath. You have put so many questions,
and I myself are charged with so many commissions, that they are crowding together like old
women at the door of the mosque, who have lost their shoes. First, at your desire, I have been
to Khounzákh. I crept along so softly, that I did not scare a single thrush by the road. Sultan
Akhmet Khan is well, and at home. He asked about you with great anxiety, shook his head, and
enquired if you did not want a spindle to dry the silk of Derbénd. The khánsha sends you tchokh
selammóum, (many compliments,) and as many sweet cakes. I threw them away, the confounded things,
at the first resting-place. Soúrkhai-Khan, Noutzal-Khan"----

"The devil take them all! What about Seltanetta?"

"Aha! at last I have touched the chilblain of your heart. Seltanetta, my dear Ammalát, is as
beautiful as the starry sky; but in that heaven I saw no light, until I conversed about you.
Then she almost threw herself on my neck when we were left alone together, and I explained
the cause of my arrival. I gave her a camel-load of compliments from you--told her that you
were almost dead with love--poor fellow!--and she burst into tears!"

"Kind, lovely soul! What did she tell you to say to me?"

"Better ask what she did not. She says that, from the time that you left her, she has never
rejoiced even in her dreams; that the winter snow has fallen on her heart, and that nothing
but a meeting with her beloved, like a vernal sun, can melt it.... But if I were to continue
to the end of her messages, and you were to wait to the end of my story, we should both reach
Derbénd with grey beards. Spite of all this, she almost drove me away, hurrying me off, lest
you should doubt her love!"

"Darling of my soul! you know not--I cannot explain what bliss it is to be with thee, what
torment to be separated from thee, not to see thee!"

"That is exactly the thing, Ammalát; she grieves that she cannot rejoice her eyes with a sight
of him whom she never can be weary of gazing at. 'Is it possible,' she says, 'that he cannot
come but for one little day, for one short hour, one little moment?'"

"To look on her, and then die, I would be content!"

"Ah, when you behold her, you will wish to live. She is become quieter than she was of old;
but even yet she is so lively, that when you see her your blood sparkles within you."

"Did you tell her why it is not in my power to do her will, and to accomplish my own passionate
desire?"

"I related such tales that you would have thought me the Shah of Persia's chief poet. Seltanetta
shed tears like a fountain after rain. She does nothing else but weep."

"Why, then, reduce her to despair? 'I cannot now' does not mean 'it is for ever impossible.'
You know what a woman's heart is, Saphir Ali: for them the end of hope is the end of love."

"You sow words on the wind, djanníon (my soul.) Hope, for lovers, is a skein of worsted--endless.
In cool blood, you do not even trust your eyes; but fall in love, and you will believe in ghosts.
I think that Seltanetta would hope that you could ride to her from your coffin--not only from
Derbénd."

"And how is Derbénd better than a coffin to me? Does not my heart feel its decay, without power
to escape it? Here is only my corpse: my soul is far away."

"It seems that your senses often take the whim of walking I know not where, dear Ammalát. Are
you not well at Verkhóffsky's--free and contented? beloved as a younger brother, caressed like
a bride? Grant that Seltanetta is lovely: there are not many Verkhóffskys. Cannot you sacrifice
to friendship a little part of love?"

"Am not I then doing so, Saphir Ali? But if you knew how much it costs me! It is as if I tore
my heart to pieces. Friendship is a lovely thing, but it cannot fill the place of love."

"At least, it can console us for love--it can relieve it. Have you spoken about this to the
Colonel?"

"I cannot prevail on myself to do so. The words die on my lips, when I would speak of my love.
He is so wise, that I am ashamed to annoy him with my madness. He is so kind, that I dare not
abuse his patience. To say the truth, his frankness invites, encourages mine. Figure to yourself
that he has been in love since his childhood with a maiden, to whom he was plighted, and whom
he certainly would have married if his name had not been by mistake put into a list of killed
during the war with the Feringhis. His bride shed tears, but nevertheless was given away in
marriage. He flies back to his country, and finds his beloved the wife of another. What, think
you, should I have done in such a case? Plunged a dagger in the breast of the robber of my
treasure!--carried her away to the end or the world to possess her but one hour, but one moment!
Nothing of this kind happened. He learned that his rival was an excellent and worthy man. He
had the calmness to contract a friendship with him: had the patience to be often in the society
of his former love, without betraying, either by word or deed, his new friend or his still
loved mistress."

"A rare man, if this be true!" exclaimed Saphir Ali, with feeling, throwing away his reins.
"A stout friend indeed!"

"But what an icy lover! But this is not all. To relieve both of them from misrepresentation
and scandal, he came hither on service. Not long ago--for his happiness or unhappiness--his
friend died. And what then? Do you think he flew to Russia. No! his duty kept him away. The
Commander-in-chief informed him that his presence was indispensable here for a year more, and
he has remained--cherishing his love with hope. Can such a man, with all his goodness, understand
such a passion as mine? And besides, there is such a difference between us in years, in opinions.
He kills me with his unapproachable dignity; and all this cools my friendship, and impedes
my sincerity."

"You are a strange fellow, Ammalát; you do not love Verkhóffsky for the very reason that he
most merits frankness and affection!"

"Who told you that I do not love him? How can I but love the man who has educated me--my benefactor?
Can I not love any one but Seltanetta? I love the whole world--all men!"

"Not much love, then, will fall to the share of each!" said Saphir Ali.

"There would be enough not only to quench the thirst, but to drown the whole world!" replied
Ammalát, with a smile.

"Aha! This comes of seeing beauties unveiled--and then to see nothing but the veil and the
eyebrows. It seems that you are like the nightingales of Ourmis; you must be caged before you
can sing!"

Conversing in this strain, the two friends disappeared in the depths of the forest.

CHAPTER VII.

FRAGMENT OF A LETTER FROM COLONEL VERKHÓFFSKY TO HIS BETROTHED.

Derbénd, April.

Fly to, me, heart of my heart, dearest Maria! Rejoice in the sight of a lovely vernal night
in Daghestán. Beneath me lies Derbénd, slumbering calmly, like a black streak of lava flowing
from the Caucasus and cooled in the sea. The gentle breeze bears to me the fragrant odour of
the almond-trees, the nightingales are calling to each other from the rock-crevices, behind
the fortress: all breathes of life and love; and beautiful nature, full of this feeling, covers
herself with a veil of mists. And how wonderfully has that vaporous ocean poured itself over
the Caspian! The sea below gleams wavingly, like steel damasked with gold on an escutcheon--that
above swells like a silver surge lighted by the full moon, which rolls along the sky like a
cup of gold, while the stars glitter around like scattered drops. In a moment, the reflection
of the moonbeams in the vapours of the night changes the picture, anticipating the imagination,
now astounding by its marvels--now striking by its novelty. Sometimes I seem to behold the
rocks of the wild shore, and the waves beating against them in foam. The billows roll onward
to the charge: the rocky ramparts repel the shock, and the surf flies high above them; but
silently and slowly sink the waves, and the silver palms arise from the midst of the inundation,
the breeze stirs their branches, playing with the long leaves, and they spread like the sails
of a ship gliding over the airy ocean. Do you see how she rolls along, how the spray-drops
sparkle on her breast, how the waves slide along her sides. And where is she?... and where
am I?... You cannot imagine, dearest Maria, the sweetly solemn feeling produced in me by the
sound and sight of the sea. To me, the idea of eternity is inseparable from it; of immensity--of
our love. That love seems to me, like it, infinite--eternal. I feel as if my heart overflowed
to embrace the world, even as the ocean, with its bright waves of love. It is in me and around
me; it is the only great and immortal feeling which I possess. Its spark lights and warms me
in the winter of my sorrows, in the midnight of my doubts. Then I love so blindly! I believe
so ardently! You smile at my fantasy, friend and companion of my soul. You wonder at this dark
language; blame me not. My spirit, like the denizen of another world, cannot bear the chill
and frosty moonlight--it shakes off the dust of the grave; it soars away, and, like the moonlight,
dimly discovers all things darkly and uncertainly. You know that it is to you alone that I
write down the pictures which fall on the magic-glass of my heart, assured that you will guess,
not with cold criticism, but with the heart, what I would describe. Besides, next August, your
happy bridegroom will himself explain all the dark passages in his letters. I cannot think
without ecstasy of the moment of our meeting. I count the sand-grains of the hours which separate
us. I count the versts which lie between us. And so in the middle of June you will be at the
waters of the Caucasus. And nought but the icy chain of the Caucasus will be between two ardent
hearts.... How near--yet how immeasurably far shall we be from each other! Oh! how many years
of life would I not give to hasten the hour of our meeting! Long, long, have our hearts been
plighted.... Why have they been separated till now?

My friend Ammalát is not frank or confiding. I cannot blame him. I know how difficult it is
to break through habits imbibed with a mother's milk, and with the air of one's native land.
The barbarian despotism of Persia, which has so long oppressed Aderbidján, has instilled the
basest principles into the Tartars of the Caucasus, and has polluted their sense of honour
by the most despicable subterfuge. And how could it be otherwise in a government based upon
the tyranny of the great over the less--where justice herself can punish only in secret--where
robbery is the privilege of power? "Do with me what you like, provided you let me do with my
inferior what I like," is the principle of Asiatic government--its ambition, its morality.
Hence, every man, finding himself between two enemies, is obliged to conceal his thoughts,
as he hides his money. Hence every man plays the hypocrite before the powerful; every man endeavours
to force from others a present by tyranny or accusation. Hence the Tartar of this country will
not move a step, but with the hope of gain; will not give you so much as a cucumber, without
expecting a present in return.

Insolent to rudeness with every one who is not in power, he is mean and slavish before rank
or a full purse. He sows flattery by handfuls; he will give you his house, his children, his
soul, to get rid of a difficulty, and if he does any body a service, it is sure to be from
motives of interest.

In money matters (this is the weakest side of a Tartar) a ducat is the touchstone of his fidelity;
and it is difficult to imagine the extent of their greediness for profit! The Armenian character
is yet a thousand times more vile than theirs; but the Tartars hardly yield to them in corruption
and greediness--and this is saying a good deal. Is it surprising that, beholding from infancy
such examples, Ammalát--though he has retained the detestation of meanness natural to pure
blood--should have adopted concealment as an indispensable arm against open malevolence and
secret villany? The sacred ties of relationship do not exist for Asiatics. With them, the son
is the slave of the father--the brother is a rival. No one trusts his neighbour, because there
is no faith in any man. Jealousy of their wives, and dread of espionage, destroy brotherly
love and friendship. The child brought up by his slave-mother--never experiencing a father's
caress, and afterwards estranged by the Arabian alphabet, (education,) hides his feelings in
his own heart even from his companions; from his childhood, thinks only for himself; from the
first beard are every door, every heart shut for him: husbands look askance at him, women fly
from him as from a wild beast, and the first and most innocent emotions of his heart, the first
voice of nature, the first movements of his feelings--all these have become crimes in the eyes
of Mahometan superstition. He dares not discover them to a relation, or confide them to a friend....
He must even weep in secret.

All this I say, my sweet Maria, to excuse Ammalát: he has already lived a year and a half in
my house, and hitherto has never confessed to me the object of his love; though he might well
have known, that it was from no idle curiosity, but from a real heartfelt interest, that I
wished to know the secret of his heart. At last, however, he has told me all; and thus it happened.

Yesterday I took a ride out of the town with Ammalát. We rode up through a defile in the mountain
on the west, and we advanced further and further, higher and higher, till we found ourselves
unexpectedly close to the village of Kelík, from which may be seen the wall that anciently
defended Persia from the incursions of the wandering tribes inhabiting the Zakavkáz, (trans-Caucasian
country,) which often devastated that territory. The annals of Derbénd (Derbéndnámé) ascribe,
but falsely, the construction of it to a certain Iskender--i.e. Alexander the Great--who, however,
never was in these regions. King Noushirván repaired it, and placed a guard along it. More
than once since that time it has been restored; and again it fell into ruin, and became overgrown,
as it now is, with the trees of centuries. A tradition exists, that this wall formerly extended
from the Caspian to the Black Sea, cutting through the whole Caucasus, and having for its extremity
the "iron gate" of Derbénd, and Dariál in its centre; but this is more than doubtful as far
as regards the general facts, though certain in the particulars. The traces of this wall, which
are to be seen far into the mountains, are interrupted here and there, but only by fallen stones
or rocks and ravines, till it reaches the military road; but from thence to the Black Sea,
through Mingrelia, I think there are no traces of its continuation.

I examined, with curiosity, this enormous wall, fortified by numerous towers at short distance;
and I wondered at the grandeur of the ancients, exhibited even in their unreasonable caprices
of despotism--that greatness to which the effeminate rulers of the East cannot aspire, in our
day, even in imagination. The wonders of Babylon, the lake of Moeris, the pyramids of the Pharaohs,
the endless wall of China, and this huge bulwark, built in sterile places, on the summits of
mountains, through the abyss of ravines--bear witness to the gigantic iron will, and the unlimited
power, of the ancient kings. Neither time, nor earthquake, nor man, transitory man, nor the
footstep of thousands of years, have entirely destroyed, entirely trodden down, the remains
of immemorial antiquity. These places awake in me solemn and sacred thoughts. I wandered over
the traces of Peter the Great; I pictured him the founder, the reformer, of a young state--building
it on these ruins of the decaying monarchies of Asia, from the centre of which he tore out
Russia, and with a mighty hand rolled her into Europe. What a fire must have gleamed in his
eagle eye, as he glanced from the heights of Caucasus! What sublime thoughts, what holy aspirations,
must have swelled that heroic breast! The grand destiny of his country was disclosed before
his eyes; in the horizon, in the mirror of the Caspian, appeared to him the picture of Russia's
future weal, sown by him, and watered by his red sweat. It was not empty conquest that was
his aim, but victory over barbarism--the happiness of mankind. Derbénd, Báka, Astrabád, they
are the links of the chain with which he endeavoured to bind the Caucasus, and rivet the commerce
of India with Russia.

Demigod of the North! Thou whom nature created at once to flatter the pride of man, and to
reduce it to despair by thine unapproachable greatness! Thy shade rose before me, bright and
colossal, and the cataract of ages fell foaming at thy feet! Pensive and silent, I rode on.

The wall of the Caucasus is faced on the north side with squared stones, neatly and firmly
fixed together with lime. Many of the battlements are still entire; but feeble seeds, falling
into the crevices and joints, have burst them asunder with the roots of trees growing from
them, and, assisted by the rains, have thrown the stones to the earth, and over the ruins triumphantly
creep mallows and pomegranates; the eagle, unmolested, builds her nest in the turret once crowded
with warriors, and on the cold hearthstone lie the fresh bones of the wild-goat, dragged thither
by the jackals. Sometimes the line of the ruins entirely disappeared; then fragments of the
stones again rose from among the grass and underwood. Riding in this way, a distance of about
three versts, we reached the gate, and passed through to the south side, under a vaulted arch,
lined with moss and overgrown with shrubs. We had not advanced twenty paces, when suddenly,
behind an enormous tower, we came upon six armed mountaineers, who seemed, by all appearance,
to belong to those gangs of robbers--the free Tabasaranetzes. They were lying in the shade,
close to their horses, which were feeding. I was astounded. I immediately reflected how foolishly
I had acted in riding so far from Derbénd without an escort. To gallop back, among such bushes
and rocks, would have been impossible; to fight six such desperate fellows, would have been
foolhardiness. Nevertheless, I seized a holster-pistol; but Ammalát Bek, seeing how matters
stood, advanced, and cried in a calm slow voice: "Do not handle your arms, or we are dead men!"

The robbers, perceiving us, jumped up and cocked their guns, one fine, broad-shouldered, but
extremely savage-looking Lezghín, remaining stretched on the ground. He lifted his head coolly,
looked at us, and waved his hand to his companions. In a moment we found ourselves surrounded
by them, while a path in front was stopped by the Ataman.

"Pray, dismount from your horses, dear guests," said he with a smile, though one could see
that the next invitation would be a bullet. I hesitated; but Ammalát Bek jumped speedily from
his horse, and walked up to the Ataman.

"Hail!" He said to him: "hail, sorvi golová! I thought not of seeing you. I thought the devils
had long ago made a feast of you."

"Softly, Ammalát Bek!" answered the other; "I hope yet to feed the eagles with the bodies of
the Russians and of you Tartars, whose purse is bigger than your heart."

"Well, and what luck, Shermadán?" carelessly enquired Ammalát Bek.

"But poor. The Russians are watchful: and we have seldom been able to drive the cattle of a
regiment, or to sell two Russian soldiers at a time in the hills. It is difficult to transport
madder and silk; and of Persian tissue, very little is now carried on the arbás. We should
have had to quest like wolves again to-day, but Allah has had mercy; he has given into our
hands a rich bek and a Russian colonel!"

My heart died within me, as I heard these words.

"Do not sell a hawk in the sky: sell him," answered Ammalát, "when you have him on your glove."

The robber sat down, laid his hand on the cock of his gun, and fixed on us a piercing look.
"Hark'e, Ammalát!" said he; "is it possible that you think to escape me?--is it possible that
you will dare to defend yourselves?"

"Be quiet," said Ammalát; "are we fools, to fight two to six? Gold is dear to us, but dearer
is our life. We have fallen into your hands, so there is nothing to be done, unless you extort
an unreasonable price for our ransom. I have, as you know, neither father nor mother: and the
Colonel has yet less--neither kinsmen nor tribe."

"If you have no father, you have your father's inheritance. There is no need then to count
your relations with you: however, I am a man of conscience. If you have no ducats, I will take
your ransom in sheep. But about the colonel, don't talk any more nonsense. I know for him the
soldiers would give the last button on their uniforms. Why, if for Sh---- a ransom of ten thousand
rubles was paid, they will give more for this man. However, we shall see, we shall see. If
you will be quiet.... Why, I am not a Jew, or a cannibal--Perviáder (the Almighty) forgive me!"

"Now that's it, friend: feed us well, and I swear and promise by my honour, we will never think
of harming you--nor of escaping."

"I believe, I believe! I am glad we have arranged without making any noise about it. What a
fine fellow you have become, Ammalát! Your horse is not a horse, your gun is not a gun: it
is a pleasure to look at you; and this is true. Let me look at your dagger, my friend. Surely
this is the Koubatchín mark upon the blade."

"No, the Kizliár mark," replied Ammalát, quietly unbuckling the dagger-belt from his waist;
"and look at the blade. Wonderful! it cuts a nail in two like a candle. On this side is the
maker's name; there--read it yourself: Alióusta--Kóza--Nishtshekói." And while he spoke, he
twirled the naked blade before the eyes of the greedy Lezghín, who wished to show that he knew
how to read, and was decyphering the complicated inscription with some difficulty. But suddenly
the dagger gleamed like lightning.... Ammalát, seizing the opportunity, struck Shermadán with
all his might on the head; and so fierce was the blow, that the dagger was stopped by the teeth
of the lower jaw. The corpse fell heavily on the grass. Keeping my eyes upon Ammalát, I followed
his example, and with my pistol shot the robber who was next me, and had hold of my horse's
bridle. This was to the others a signal for flight; the rascals vanished; for the death of
their Ataman dissolved the knot of the leash which bound them together. Whilst Ammalát, after
the oriental fashion, was stripping the dead of their arms, and tying together the reins of
the abandoned horses, I lectured him on his dissembling and making a false oath to the robber.
He lifted up his head with astonishment: "You are a strange man, Colonel!" he replied. "This
rascal has done an infinity of harm to the Russians, by secretly setting fire to their stacks
of hay, or seizing and carrying straggling soldiers and wood-cutters into slavery. Do you know
that he would have tyrannized over us--or even tortured us, to make us write more movingly
to our kinsmen, to induce them to pay a larger ransom?"

"It may be so, Ammalát, but to lie or to swear an oath, either in jest or to escape misfortune,
is wrong. Why could we not have thrown ourselves directly at the robbers, and have begun as
you finished?"

"No, Colonel, we could not. If I had not entered into conversation with the Ataman, we should
have been riddled with balls at the first movement. Moreover, I know that pack right well:
they are brave only in the presence of their Ataman, and it was with him it was necessary to
begin!"

I shook my head. The Asiatic cunning, though it had saved my life, could not please me. What
confidence can I have in people accustomed to sport with their honour and their soul? We were
about to mount our horses, when we heard a groan from the mountaineer who had been wounded
by me. He came to himself, raised his head, and piteously besought us not to leave him to be
devoured by the beasts of the forest. We both hastened to assist the poor wretch; and what
was Ammalát's astonishment when he recognized in him one of the noúkers of Sultan Akhmet Khan
of Avár. To the question how he happened to be one of a gang of robbers, he replied: "Shairán
tempted me: the Khan sent me into Kemék, a neighbouring village, with a letter to the famous
Hakím (Doctor) Ibrahim, for a certain herb, which they say removes every ailment, as easily
as if it were brushed away with the hand. To my sorrow, Shermadán met me in the way! He teazed
me, saying, 'Come with me, and let us rob on the road. An Armenian is coming from Kouba with
money.' My young heart could not resist this ... oh, Allah-il-Allah! He hath taken my soul
from me!"

"They sent you for physic, you say," replied Ammalát: "why, who is sick with you?"

"Our Khanóum Seltanetta is dying: here is the writing to the leech about her illness:" with
these words he gave Ammalát a silver tube, in which was a small piece of paper rolled up. Ammalát
turned as pale as death; his hands shook--his eyes sank under his eyebrows when he had read
the note: with a broken voice he uttered detached words. "Three nights--and she sleeps not,
eats not--delirious!--her life is in danger--save her! O God of righteousness--and I am idling
here--leading a life of holidays--and my soul's soul is ready to quit the earth, and leave
me a rotten corse! Oh that all her sufferings could fall on my head! and that I could lie in
her coffin, if that would restore her to health. Sweetest and loveliest! thou art fading, rose
of Avár, and destiny has stretched out her talons over thee. Colonel," he cried at length,
seizing my hand, "grant my only, my solemn prayer--let me but once more look on her!"----

"On whom, my friend?"

"On my Seltanetta--on the daughter of the Khan of Avár--whom I love more than my life, than
my soul! She is ill, she is dying--perhaps dead by this time--while I am wasting words--and
I could not receive into my heart her last word--her last look--could not wipe away the icy
tear of death! Oh, why do not the ashes of the ruined sun fall on my head--why will not the
earth bury me in its ruins!"

He fell on my breast, choking with grief, in a tearless agony, unable to pronounce a word.

This was not a time for accusations of insincerity, much less to set forth the reasons which
rendered it unadvisable for him to go among the enemies of Russia. There are circumstances
before which all reasons must give way, and I felt that Ammalát was in such circumstances.
On my own responsibility I resolved to let him go. "He that obliges from the heart, and speedily,
twice obliges," is my favourite proverb, and best maxim. I pressed in my embrace the unhappy
Tartar, and we mingled our tears together.

"My friend Ammalát," said I, "hasten where your heart calls you. God grant that you may carry
thither health and recovery, and bring back peace of mind! A happy journey!"

"Farewell, my benefactor," he cried, deeply touched, "farewell, and perhaps for ever! I will
not return to life, if Allah takes from me my Seltanetta. May God keep you!"

He took the wounded Aváretz to the Hakím Ibrahim, received the medicinal herb according to
the Khan's prescription, and in an hour Ammalát Bek, with four noúkers, rode out of Derbénd.

And so the riddle is guessed--he loves. This is unfortunate, but what is yet worse, he is beloved
in return. I fancy, my love, that I see your astonishment. "Can that be a misfortune to another,
which to you is happiness?" you ask. A grain of patience, my soul's angel! The Khan, the father
of Seltanetta, is the irreconcilable foe of Russia, and the more so because, having been distinguished
by the favour of the Czar, he has turned a traitor; consequently a marriage is possible only
on condition of Ammalát's betraying the Russians, or in case of the Khan's submission and pardon--both
cases being far from probable. I myself have experienced misery and hopelessness in love; I
have shed many tears on my lonely pillow; often have I thirsted for the shade of the grave,
to cool my anguished heart! Can I, then, help, pitying this youth, the object of my disinterested
regard, and lamenting his hopeless love? But this will not build a bridge to good-fortune;
and I therefore think, that if he had not the ill-luck to be beloved in return, he would by
degrees forget her.

"But," you say, (and methinks I hear your silvery voice, and am revelling in your angel's smile,)
"but circumstances may change for them, as they have changed for us. Is it possible that misfortune
alone has the privilege of being eternal in the world?"

I do not dispute this, my beloved, but I confess with a sigh that I am in doubt. I even fear
for them and for ourselves. Destiny smiles before us, hope chaunts sweet music--but destiny
is a sea--hope but a sea-syren; deceitful is the calm of the one, fatal are the promises of
the other. All appears to aid our union--but are we yet together? I know not why, lovely Mary,
but a chill penetrates my breast, amid the warm fountains of future bliss, and the idea of
our meeting has lost its distinctness. But all this will pass away, all will change into happiness,
when I press your hand to my lips, your heart to mine. The rainbow shines yet brighter on the
dark field of the cloud, and the happiest moments of life are but the anticipations of sorrow.

CHAPTER VIII.

Ammalát knocked up two horses, and left two of his noúkers on the road, so that at the end
of the second day he was not far from Khounzákh. At each stride his impatience grew stronger,
and with each stride increased his fear of not finding his beloved amongst the living. A fit
of trembling came over him when from the rocks the tops of the Khan's tower arose before him.
His eyes grew dark. "Shall I meet there life or death?" he whispered to himself, and arousing
a desperate courage, he urged his horse to a gallop.

He came up with a horseman completely armed: another horseman rode out of Khounzákh to meeting,
and hardly did they perceive one another when they put their horses to full speed, rode up
to each other, leaped down upon the earth, and suddenly drawing their swords, threw themselves
with fury upon each other without uttering a word, as if blows were the customary salutation
of travellers. Ammalát Bek, whose passage they intercepted along the narrow path between the
rocks, gazed with astonishment on the combat of the two adversaries. It was short. The horseman
who was approaching the town fell on the stones, bedewing them with blood from a gash which
laid open his skull; and the victor, coolly wiping his blade, addressed himself to Ammalát:
"Your coming is opportune: I am glad that destiny has brought you in time to witness our combat.
God, and not I, killed the offender; and now his kinsmen will not say that I killed my enemy
stealthily from behind a rock, and will not raise upon my head the feud of blood."

"Whence arose your quarrel with him?" asked Ammalát: "why did you conclude it with such a terrible
revenge?"

"This Kharám-Záda," answered the horseman, "could not agree with me about the division of some
stolen sheep, and in spite he killed them all so that nobody should have them ... and he dared
to slander my wife. He had better have insulted my father's grave, or my mother's good name,
than have touched the reputation of my wife! I once flew at him with my dagger, but they parted
us: we agreed to fight at our first encounter, and Allah has judged between us! The Bek is
doubtless riding to Khounzákh--surely on a vizit to the Khan?" added the horseman.

Ammalát, forcing his horse to leap over the dead body which lay across the road, replied in
the affirmative.

"You go not at a fit time, Bek--not at all at a fit time."

All Ammalát's blood rushed to his head. "Why, has any misfortune happened in the Khan's house?"
he enquired, reining in his horse, which he had just before lashed with the whip to force him
faster to Khounzákh.

"Not exactly a misfortune, his daughter Seltanetta was severely ill, and now"----

"Is dead?" cried Ammalát, turning pale.

"Perhaps she is dead--at least dying. As I rode past the Khan's gate, there arose a bustling,
crying, and yelling of women in the court, as if the Russians were storming Khounzákh. Go and
see--do me the favour"----

But Ammalát heard no more, he dashed away from the astounded Ouzdén; the dust rolled like smoke
from the road, which seemed to be set on fire by the sparks from the horse's hoofs. Headlong
he galloped through the winding streets, flew up the hill, bounded from his horse in the midst
of the Khan's court-yard, and raced breathlessly through the passages to Seltanetta's apartment,
overthrowing and jostling noúkers and maidens, and at last, without remarking the Khan or his
wife, pushed himself to the bed of the sufferer, and fell, almost senseless, on his knees beside
it.

The sudden and noisy arrival of Ammalát aroused the sad society present. Seltanetta, whose
existence death was already overpowering, seemed as if awakening from the deep forgetfulness
of fever; her cheeks flushed with a transient colour, like that on the leaves of autumn before
they fall: in her clouded eye beamed the last spark of the soul. She lad been for several hours
in a complete insensibility; she was speechless, motionless, hopeless. A murmur of anger from
the bystanders, and a loud exclamation from the stupefied Ammalát, seemed to recall the departing
spirit of the sick, she started up--her eyes sparkled.... "Is it thou--is it thou?" she cried,
stretching, forth her arms to him: "praise be to Allah! now I am contented, now I am happy,"
she added, sinking back on the pillow. Her lips wreathed into a smile, her eyelids closed,
and again she sank into her former insensibility.

The agonized Asiatic paid no attention to the questions of the Khan, or the reproaches of the
Khánsha: no person, no object distracted his attention from Seltanetta--nothing could arouse
him from his deep despair. They could hardly lead him by force from the sick chamber; he clung
to the threshold, he wept bitterly, at one moment praying for the life of Seltanetta, at another
accusing heaven of her illness! Terrible, yet moving, was the grief of the fiery Asiatic.

Meanwhile, the appearance of Ammalát had produced a salutary influence on the sick girl. What
the rude physicians of the mountains were unable to accomplish, was effected by his arrival.
The vital energy, which had been almost extinguished, needed some agitation to revivify its
action; but for this she must have perished, not from the disease, which had been already subdued,
but from languor--as a lamp, not blown out by the wind, but failing for lack of air. Youth
at length gained the victory; the crisis was past, and life again arose in the heart of the
sufferer. After a long and quiet slumber, she awoke unusually strengthened and refreshed. "I
feel myself as light, mother," she cried, looking gaily around her, "as if I were made wholly
of air. Ah, how sweet it is to recover from illness; it seems as if the walls were smiling
upon me. Yet, I have been very ill--long ill. I have suffered much; but, thanks to Allah! I
am now only weak, and that will soon pass away. I feel health rolling, like drops of pearl,
through my veins. All the past seems to me a sort of dark vision. I fancied that I was sinking
into a cold sea, and that I was parched with thirst: far away, methought, there hovered two
little stars; the darkness thickened and thickened; I sank deeper, deeper yet. All at once
it seemed as if some one called me by my name, and with a mighty hand dragged me from that
icy, shoreless sea. Ammalát's face glanced before me, almost like a reality; the little stars
broke into a lightning-flash, which writhed like a serpent to my heart: I remember no more!"

On the following day Ammalát was allowed to see the convalescent. Sultan Akhmet Khan, seeing
that it was impossible to obtain a coherent answer from him while suspense tortured his heart,
that heart which boiled with passion, yielded to his incessant entreaties. "Let all rejoice
when I rejoice," he said, as he led his guest into his daughter's room. This had been previously
announced to Seltanetta, but her agitation, nevertheless, was very great, when her eyes met
those of Ammalát--Ammalát, so deeply loved, so long and fruitlessly expected. Neither of the
lovers could pronounce a word, but the ardent language of their looks expressed a long tale,
imprinted in burning letters on the tablet of their hearts. On the pale cheek of each other
they read the traces of sorrow, the tears of separation, the characters of sleeplessness and
grief, of fear and of jealousy. Entrancing is the blooming loveliness of an adored mistress;
but her paleness, her languor, that is bewitching, enchanting, victorious! What heart of iron
would not be melted by that tearful glance, which, without a reproach, says so tenderly to
you, "I am happy, but I have suffered by thee and for thy sake?"

Tears dropped from Ammalát's eyes; but remembering at length that he was not alone, he mastered
himself, and lifted up his head to speak; but his voice refused to pour itself in words, and
with difficulty he faltered out, "We have not seen each other for a long time, Seltanetta!"

"And we were wellnigh parted for ever," murmured Seltanetta.

"For ever!" cried Ammalát, with a half reproachful voice. "And can you think, can you believe
this? Is there not, then, another life, in which sorrow is unknown, and separation from our
kinsmen and the beloved? If I were to lose the talisman of my life, with what scorn would I
not cast away the rusty ponderous armour of existence! Why should I wrestle with destiny?"

"Pity, then, that I did not die!" answered Seltanetta, sportively. "You describe so temptingly
the other side of the grave, that one would be eager to leap into it."

"Ah, no! Live, live long, for happiness, for--love!" Ammalát would have added, but he reddened,
and was silent.

Little by little the roses of health spread over the cheeks of the maiden, now happy in the
presence of her lover. All returned into its customary order. The Khan was never weary of questioning
Ammalát about the battles, the campaigns, the tactics of the Russians; the Khánsha tired him
with enquiries about the dress and customs of their women, and could not omit to call upon
Allah as often as she heard that they go without veils. But with Seltanetta he enjoyed conversations
and tales, to his, as well as her, heart's content. The merest trifle which had the slightest
connexion with the other, could not be passed over without a minute description, without abundant
repetitions and exclamations. Love, like Midas, transforms every thing it touches into gold,
and, alas! often perishes, like Midas, for want of finding some material nourishment.

But, as the strength of Seltanetta was gradually re-established, with the reappearing bloom
of health on Ammalát's brow, there often appeared the shadow of grief. Sometimes, in the middle
of a lively conversation, he would suddenly stop, droop his head, and his bright eyes would
be dimmed with a filling of tears; heavy sighs would seem to rend his breast; he would start
up, his eyes sparkling with fury; he would grasp his dagger with a bitter smile, and then,
as if vanquished by an invisible hand, he would fall into a deep reverie, from whence not even
the caresses of his adored Seltanetta could recall him.

Once, at such a moment, Seltanetta, leaning enraptured on his shoulder, whispered, "Asis, (beloved,)
you are sad--you are weary of me!"

"Ah, slander not him who loves thee more than heaven!" replied Ammalát; "but I have felt the
hell of separation; and can I think of it without agony? Easier, a hundred times easier, to
part from life than from thee, my dark-eyed love!"

"You are thinking of it, therefore you desire it."

"Do not poison my wounds by doubting, Seltanetta. Till now you have known only how to bloom
like a rose--to flutter like a butterfly; till now your will was your only duty. But I am a
man, a friend; fate has forged for me an indestructible chain--the chain of gratitude for kindness--it
drags me to Derbénd."

"Debt! duty! gratitude!" cried Seltanetta, mournfully shaking her head. "How many gold-embroidered
words have you invented to cover, as with a shawl, your unwillingness to remain here. What!
Did you not give your heart to love before it was pledged to friendship? You had no right to
give away what belonged to another. Oh, forget your Verkhóffsky, forget your Russian friends
and the beauty of Derbénd. Forget war and murder-purchased glory. I hate blood since I saw
you covered with it. I cannot think without shuddering, that each drop of it costs tears that
cannot be dried, of a sister, a mother, or a fair bride. What do you need, in order to live
peacefully and quietly among our mountains! Here none can come to disturb with arms the happiness
of the heart. The rain pierces not our roof; our bread is not of purchased corn; my father
has many horses, he has arms, and much precious gold; in my soul there is much love for you.
Say, then, my beloved, you will not go away, you will remain with us!"

"No, Seltanetta, I cannot, must not, remain here. To pass my life with you alone--for you to
end it--this is my first prayer, my last desire, but its accomplishment depends on your father.
A sacred tie binds me to the Russians; and while the Khan remains unreconciled with them, an
open marriage with you would be impossible--the obstacle would not be the Russians, but the
Khan"----

"You know my father," sorrowfully replied Seltanetta; "for some time past his hatred of the
infidels has so strengthened itself, that he hesitates not to sacrifice to it his daughter
and his friend. He is particularly enraged with the Colonel for killing his favourite noúker,
who was sent for medicine to the Hakím Ibrahim."

"I have more than once begun to speak to Akhmet Khan about my hopes; but his eternal reply
has been--'Swear to be the enemy of the Russians, and then I will hear you out.'"

"We must then bid adieu to hope."

"Why to hope, Seltanetta? Why not say only--farewell, Avár!"

Seltanetta bent upon him her expressive eyes. "I don't understand you," she said.

"Love me more than any thing in the world--more than your father and mother, and your fair
land, and then you will understand me, Seltanetta! Live without you I cannot, and they will
not let me live with you. If you love me, let us fly!"

"Fly! the Khan's daughter fly like a slave--a criminal! This is dreadful--this is terrible!"

"Speak not so. If the sacrifice is unusual, my love also is unusual. Command me to give my
life a thousand times, and I will throw it down like a copper poull.[8] I will cast my soul
into hell for you--not only my life. You remind me that you are the daughter of the Khan; remember,
too, that my grandfather wore, that my uncle wears, the crown of a Shamkhál! But it is not
by this dignity, but by my heart, that I feel I am worthy of you; and if there be shame in
being happy despite of the malice of mankind and the caprice of fate, that shame will fall
on my head and not on yours."

    [8] Coin.

"But you forget my father's vengeance."

"There will come a time when he himself will forget it. When he sees that the thing is done,
he will cast aside his inflexibility; his heart is not stone; and even were it stone, tears
of repentance will wear it away--our caresses will soften him. Happiness will cover us with
her dove's wings, and we shall proudly say, 'We ourselves have caught her!'"

"My beloved, I have lived not long upon earth, but something at my heart tells me that by falsehood
we can never catch her. Let us wait: let us see what Allah will give! Perhaps, without this
step, our union may be accomplished."

"Seltanetta, Allah has given me this idea: it is his will. Have pity on me, I beseech you.
Let us fly, unless you wish that our marriage-hour should strike above my grave! I have pledged
my honour to return to Derbénd; and I must keep that pledge, I must keep it soon: but to depart
without the hope of seeing you, with the dread of hearing that you are the wife of another--this
would be dreadful, this would be insupportable! If not from love, then from pity, share my
destiny. Do not rob me of paradise! Do not drive me to madness! You know not whither disappointed
passion can carry me. I may forget hospitality and kindred, tear asunder all human ties, trample
under my feet all that is holy, mingle my blood with that of those who are dearest to me, force
villany to shake with terror when my name is heard, and angels to weep to see my deeds!--Seltanetta,
save me from the curse of others, from my own contempt--save me from myself! My noúkers are
fearless--my horses like the wind; the night is dark, let us fly to benevolent Russia, till
the storm be over. For the last time I implore you. Life and death, my renown and my soul,
hang upon your word. Yes or no?"

Torn now by her maiden fear, and her respect for the customs of her forefathers, now by the
passion and eloquence of her lover, the innocent Seltanetta wavered, like a light cork, upon
the tempestuous billows of contending emotions. At length she arose: with a proud and steady
air she wiped away the tears which, glistened on her eyelashes, like the amber-gum on the thorns
of the larch-tree, and said, "Ammalát! tempt me not! The flame of love will not dazzle, the
smoke of love will not suffocate, my conscience. I shall ever know what is good and what is
bad; and I well know how shameful it is, how base, to desert a father's house, to afflict loving
and beloved parents! I know all this--and now, measure the price of my sacrifice. I fly with
you--I am yours! It is not your tongue which has convinced--it is my own heart which has vanquished
me! Allah has destined me to see and love you: let, then, our hearts be united for ever--and
indissolubly, though their bond be a crown of thorns! Now all is over! Your destiny is mine!"

If heaven had clasped Ammalát in its infinite wings, and pressed him to the heart of the universe--to
the sun--even then his ecstacy would have been less strong than at this divine moment. He poured
forth the most incoherent cries and exclamations of gratitude. When the first transports were
over, the lovers arranged all the details of their flight. Seltanetta consented to lower herself
by her bed-coverings from her chamber, to the steep bank of the Ouzén. Ammalát was to ride
out in the evening with his noúkers from Khounzákh, as if on a hawking party; he was to return
to the Khan's house by circuitous roads at nightfall, and there receive his fair fellow-traveller
in his arms. Then they were to take horses in silence, and then--let enemies keep out of their
road!

A kiss sealed the treaty; and the lovers separated with fear and hope in heart.

Ammalát Bek, having prepared his brave noúkers for battle or flight, looked impatiently at
the sun, which seemed loth to descend from the warm sky to the chilly glaciers of the Caucasus.
Like a bridegroom he pined for night, like an importunate guest he followed with his eyes the
luminary of day. How slowly it moved--it crept to its setting! An interminable space seemed
to intervene between hope and enjoyment. Unreasonable youth! What is your pledge of success?
Who will assure you that your footsteps are not watched--your words not caught in their flight?
Perhaps with the sun, which you upbraid, your hope will set.

About the fourth hour after noon, the time of the Mozlem's dinner, the Sultan Akhmet Khan was
unusually savage and gloomy. His eyes gleamed suspiciously from under his frowning brows; he
fixed them for a long space, now on his daughter, now on his young guest. Sometimes his features
assumed a mocking expression, but it again vanished in the blush of anger. His questions were
biting, his conversation was interrupted; and all this awakened in the soul of Seltanetta repentance--in
the heart of Ammalát apprehension. On the other hand, the Khánsha, as if dreading a separation
from her lovely daughter, was so affectionate and anxious, that this unmerited tenderness wrung
tears from the gentle-hearted Seltanetta, and her glance, stealthily thrown at Ammalát, was
to him a piercing reproach.

Hardly, after dinner, had they concluded the customary ceremony of washing the hands, when
the Khan called Ammalát into the spacious court-yard. There caparisoned horses awaited them,
and a crowd of noúkers were already in the saddle.

"Let us ride out to try the mettle of my new hawks," said the Khan to Ammalát; "the evening
is fine, the heat is diminishing, and we shall yet have time, ere twilight, to shoot a few birds."

With his hawk on his fist, the Khan rode silently by the side of Ammalát. An Avarétz was climbing
up to a steep cliff on the left, by means of a spiked pole, fixing it into the crevices, and
then, supporting himself on a prong, he lifted himself higher. To his waist was attached a
cap containing wheat; a long crossbow hung upon his shoulders. The Khan stopped, pointed him
out to Ammalát, and said meaningly, "Look at yonder old man, Ammalát Bek! He seeks, at the
risk of his life, a foot of ground on the naked rock, to sow a handful of wheat. With the sweat
of his brow he cultivates it, and often pays with his life for the defence of his herd from
men and beasts. Poor is his native land; but why does he love this land? Ask him to change
it for your fruitful fields, your rich flocks. He will say, 'Here I do what I please; here
I bow to no one; these snows, these peaks of ice, defend my liberty.' And this freedom the
Russians would take from him: of these Russians you have become the slave, Ammalát."

"Khan, you know that it is not Russian bravery, but Russian generosity, that has vanquished
me. Their slave I am not, but their companion."

"A thousand times the worse, the more disgraceful for you. The heir of the Shamkhál pines for
a Russian epaulette, and glories in being the dependent of a colonel!"

"Moderate your words, Sultan Akhmet. To Verkhóffsky I owe more than life: the tie of friendship
unites us."

"Can there exist a holy tie between us and the Giaour? To injure them, to destroy them, when
possible, to deceive them when this cannot be done, is the commandment of the Korán, and the
duty of every true believer."

"Khan! let us cease to play with the bones of Mahomet, and to menace others with what we do
not believe. You are not a moólla, I am no fakir. I have my own notions of the duty of an honest
man."

"Really, Ammalát Bek? It were well, however, if you were to have this oftener in your heart
than on your tongue. For the last time, allow me to ask you, will you hearken to the counsels
of a friend whom you quitted for the Giaour? Will you remain with us for good?"

"My life I would lay down for the happiness you so generously offer; but I have given my promise
to return, and I will keep it."

"Is this decided?"

"Irrevocably so."

"Well then, the sooner the better. I have learned to know you. Me you know of old. Insincerity
and flattery between us are in vain. I will not conceal from you, that I always wished to see
you my son-in-law. I rejoiced that Seltanetta had pleased you; your captivity put off my plans
for a time. Your long absence--the rumours of your conversion--grieved me. At length you appeared
among us, and found every thing as before; but you did not bring to us your former heart. I
hoped you would fall back into your former course; I was painfully mistaken. It is a pity;
but there is nothing to be done. I do not wish to have for my son-in-law a servant of the Russians."

"Akhmet Khan, I once"----

"Let me finish. Your agitated arrival, your ravings at the door of the sick Seltanetta, betrayed
to every body your attachment, and our mutual intentions. Through all the mountains, you have
been talked of as the affianced bridegroom of my daughter: but now the tie is broken, it is
time to destroy the rumours; for the honour of my family--for the tranquillity of my daughter--you
must leave us--and immediately. This is absolutely necessary and indispensable. Ammalát, we
part friends, but here we will meet only as kinsmen, not otherwise. May Allah turn your heart,
and restore you to us as an inseparable friend. Till then, farewell!"

With these words the Khan turned his horse, and rode away at full gallop to his retinue. If
on the stupefied Ammalát the thunderbolt of heaven had fallen, he could not have been more
astounded than by this unexpected explanation. Already had the dust raised by the horse's hoofs
of the retiring Khan been laid at rest; but he still stood immovable on the hill now darkening
in the shadow of sunset.

CHAPTER IX.

Colonel Verkhóffsky, engaged in reducing to submission the rebellious Daghestánetzes, was encamped
with his regiment at the village of Kiáfir-Kaúmik. The tent of Ammalát Bek was erected next
to his own, and in it Saphir-Ali, lazily stretched on the carpet, was drinking the wine of
the Don, notwithstanding the prohibition of the Prophet. Ammalát Bek, thin, pale, and pensive,
was resting his head against the tent-pole, smoking a pipe. Three months had passed since the
time when he was banished from his paradise; and he was now roving with a detachment, within
sight of the mountains to which his heart flew, but whither his foot durst not step. Grief
had worn out his strength; vexation had poured its vial on his once serene character. He had
dragged a sacrifice to his attachment to the Russians, and it seemed as if he reproached every
Russian with it. Discontent was visible in every word, in every glance.

"A fine thing wine!" said Saphir Ali, carefully wiping the glasses; "surely Mahomet must have
met with sour dregs in Aravéte, when he forbade the juice of the grape to true believers! Why,
really these drops are as sweet as if the angels themselves, in their joy, had wept their tears
into bottles. Ho! quaff another glass, Ammalát; your heart will float on the wine more lightly
than a bubble. Do you know what Hafiz has sung about it?"

"And do you know? Pray, do not annoy me with your prate, Saphir Ali: not even under the name
of Sadi and Hafiz."

"Why, what harm is there? If even this prate is my own, it is not an earring: it will not remain
hanging in your ear. When you begin your story about your goddess Seltanetta, I look at you
as at the juggler, who eats fire, and winds endless ribbons from his cheeks. Love makes you
talk nonsense, and the Donskoi (wine of the Don) makes me do the same. So we are quits. Now,
then, to the health of the Russians!"

"What has made you like the Russians?"

"Say rather--why have you ceased to love them?"

"Because I have examined them nearer. Really they are no better than our Tartars. They are
just as eager for profit, just as ready to blame others, and not with a view of improving their
fellow-creatures, but to excuse themselves: and as to their laziness--don't let us speak of
it. They have ruled here for a long time, and what good have they done; what firm laws have
they established; what useful customs have they introduced; what have they taught us; what
have they created here, or what have they constructed worthy of notice? Verkhóffsky has opened
my eyes to the faults of my countrymen, but at the same time to the defects of the Russians,
to whom it is more unpardonable; because they know what is right, have grown up among good
examples, and here, as if they have forgotten their mission, and their active nature, they
sink, little by little, into the insignificance of the beasts."

"I hope you do not include Verkhóffsky in this number."

"Not he alone, but some others, deserve to be placed in a separate circle. But then, are there
many such?"

"Even the angels in heaven are numbered, Ammalát Bek: and Verkhóffsky absolutely is a man for
whose justice and kindness we ought to thank heaven. Is there a single Tartar who can speak
ill of him? Is there a soldier who would not give his soul for him? Abdul-Hamet, more wine!
Now then, to the health of Verkhóffsky!"

"Spare me! I will not drink to Mahomet himself."

"If your heart is not as black as the eyes of Seltanetta, you will drink, even were it in the
presence of the red-bearded Yakhoúnts of the Shakhéeds[9] of Derbént: even if all the Imáms
and Shieks not only licked their lips but bit their nails out of spite to you for such a sacrilege."

    [9] Shakhéeds, traders of the sect of Souni. Yakhoúnt the
    senior moóllah.

"I will not drink, I tell you."

"Hark ye, Ammalát: I am ready to let the devil get drunk on my blood for your sake, and you
won't drink a glass of wine for mine."

"That is to say, that I will not drink because I do not wish--and I don't wish, because even
without wine my blood boils in me like fermenting boozá."

"A bad excuse! It is not the first time that we have drunk, nor the first time that our blood
boils. Speak plainly at once: you are angry with the Colonel."

"Very angry."

"May I know for what?"

"For much. For some time past he has begun to drop poison into the honey of his friendship:
and at last these drops have filled and overflowed the cup. I cannot bear such lukewarm friends!
He is liberal with his advice, not sparing with his lectures; that is, in every thing that
costs him neither risk nor trouble."

"I understand, I understand! I suppose he would not let you go to Avár!"

"If you bore my heart in your bosom you would understand how I felt when I received such a
refusal. He lured me on with that hope, and then all at once repulsed my most earnest prayer--dashed
into dust, like a crystal kalián, my fondest hopes.... Akhmet Khan was surely softened, when
he sent word that he wished to see me; and I cannot fly to him, or hurry to Seltanetta."

"Put yourself, brother, in his place, and then say whether you yourself would not have acted
in the same way."

"No, not so! I should have said plainly from the very beginning, 'Ammalát, do not expect any
help from me.' I even now ask him not for help. I only beg him not to hinder me. Yet no! He,
hiding from me the sun of all my joy, assures me that he does this from interest in me--that
this will hereafter bring me fortune. Is not this a fine anodyne?"

"No, my friend! If this is really the case, the sleeping-draught is given to you as to a person
on whom they wish to perform an operation. You are thinking only of your love, and Verkhóffsky
has to keep your honour and his own without spot; and you are both surrounded by ill-wishers.
Believe me, either thus or otherwise, it is he alone who can cure you."

"Who asks him to cure me? This divine malady of love is my only joy: and to deprive me of it
is to tear out my heart, because it cannot beat at the sound of a drum!"----

At this moment a strange Tartar entered the tent, looked suspiciously round, and bending down
his head, laid his slippers before Ammalát--according to Asiatic custom, this signified that
he requested a private conversation. Ammalát understood him, made a sign with his head, and
both went out into the open air. The night was dark, the fires were going out, and the chain
of sentinels extended far before them. "Here we are alone," said Ammalát Bek to the Tartar:
"who art thou, and what dost thou want?"

"My name is Samit: I am an inhabitant of Derbénd, of the sect of Souni: and now am at present
serving in the detachment of Mussulman cavalry. My commission is of greater consequence to
you than to me.... The eagle loves the mountains!"

Ammalát shuddered, and looked suspiciously at the messenger. This was a watchword, the key
of which Sultan Akhmet had previously written to him. "How can he but love the mountains?"
... he replied; "In the mountains there are many lambs for the eagles, and much silver for men."

"And much steel for the valiant," (yigheeds.)

Ammalát grasped the messenger by the hand. "How is Sultan Akhmet Khan?" he enquired hurriedly:
"What news bring you from him--how long is it since you have seen his family?"

"Not to answer, but to question, am I come.... Will you follow me?"

"Where? for what?"

"You know who has sent me. That is enough. If you trust not him, trust not me. Therein is your
will and my advantage. Instead of running my head into a noose to-night, I can return to-morrow
to the Khan, and tell him that Ammalát dares not leave the camp."

The Tartar gained his point: the touchy Ammalát took fire. "Saphir Ali!" he cried loudly.

Saphir Ali started up, and ran out of the tent.

"Order horses to be brought for yourself and me, even if unsaddled; and at the same time send
word to the Colonel, that I have ridden out to examine the field behind the line, to see if
some rascal is not stealing in between the sentries. My gun and shashka in a twinkling!"

The horses were led up, the Tartar leaped on his own, which was tied up not far off, and all
three rode off to the chain. They gave the word and the countersign, and they passed by the
videttes to the left, along the bank of the swift Azen.

Saphir Ali, who had very unwillingly left his bottle, grumbled about the darkness, the underwood,
the ditches, and rode swearing by Ammalát's side; but seeing that nobody began the conversation,
he resolved to commence it himself.

"My ashes fall on the head of this guide! The devil knows where he is leading us, and where
he will take us. Perhaps he is going to sell us to the Lezghíns for a rich ransom. I never
trust these squinting fellows!"

"I trust but little even to those who have straight eyes," answered Ammalát; "but this squinting
fellow is sent from a friend: he will not betray us!"

"And the very first moment he thinks of any thing like it, at his first movement I will slice
him through like a melon. Ho! friend," cried Saphir Ali, to the guide; "in the name of the
king of the genii, it seems you have made a compact with the thorns to tear the embroidery
from my tschoukhá. Could you not find a wider road? I am really neither a pheasant nor a fox."

The guide stopped. "To say the truth, I have led a delicate fellow like you too far!" he answered.
"Stay here and take care of the horses, whilst Ammalát and I will go where it is necessary."

"Is it possible you will go into the woods with such a cut-throat looking rascal, without me?"
whispered Saphir Ali to Ammalát.

"That is, you are afraid to remain here without me!" replied Ammalát, dismounting from his
horse, and giving him the reins: "Do not annoy yourself, my dear fellow. I leave you in the
agreeable society of wolves and jackals. Hark how they are singing!"

"Pray to God that I may not have to deliver your bones from these singers," said Saphir Ali.
They separated. Samit led Ammalát among the bushes, over the river, and having passed about
half a verst among stones, began to descend. At the risk of their necks they clambered along
the rocks, clinging by the roots of the sweet-briar, and at length, after a difficult journey,
descended into the narrow mouth of a small cavern parallel with the water. It had been excavated
by the washing of the stream, erewhile rapid, but now dried up. Long stalactites of lime and
crystal glittered in the light of a fire piled in the middle. In the back-ground lay Sultan
Akhmet Khan on a boúrka, and seemed to be waiting patiently till Ammalát should recover himself
amid the thick smoke which rolled in masses through the cave. A cocked gun lay across his knees;
the tuft in his cap fluttered in the wind which blew from the crevices. He rose politely as
Ammalát hurried to salute him.

"I am glad to see you," he said, pressing the hands of his guest; "and I do not hide the feeling
which I ought not to cherish. However, it is not for an empty interview that I have put my
foot into the trap, and troubled you: sit down, Ammalát, and let us speak about an important
affair."

"To me, Sultan Akhmet Khan?"

"To us both. With your father I have eaten bread and salt. There was a time when I counted
you likewise as my friend."

"But counted!"

"No! you were my friend, and would ever have remained so, if the deceiver, Verkhóffsky, had
not stepped between us."

"Khan, you know him not."

"Not only I, but you yourself shall soon know him. But let us begin with what regards Seltanetta.
You know she cannot ever remain unmarried. This would be a disgrace to my house: and let me
tell you candidly, that she has already been demanded in marriage."

Ammalát's heart seemed torn asunder. For some time he could not recover himself. At length
he tremblingly asked, "Who is this bold lover?"

"The second son of the Shamkhál, Abdoul Moússelin. Next after you, he has, from his high blood,
the best right, of all our mountaineers, to Seltanetta's hand."

"Next to me--after me!" exclaimed the passionate Bek, boiling with anger: "Am I, then, buried?
Is then my memory vanished among my friends?"

"Neither the memory, nor friendship itself is dead in my heart; but be just, Ammalát; as just
as I am frank. Forget that you are the judge of your own cause, and decide what we are to do.
You will not abandon the Russians, and I cannot make peace with them."

"Do but wish--do but speak the word, and all will be forgotten, all will be forgiven you. This
I will answer for with my head, and with the honour of Verkhóffsky, who has more than once
promised me his mediation. For your own good, for the welfare of Avár, for your daughter's
happiness, for my bliss, I implore you, yield to peace, and all will be forgotten--all that
once belonged to you will be restored."

"How boldly you answer, rash youth, for another's pardon, for another's life! Are you sure
of your own life, your own liberty?"

"Who should desire my poor life? To whom should be dear the liberty which I do not prize myself?"

"To whom? Think you that the pillow does not move under the Shamkhál's head, when the thought
rises in his brain, that you, the true heir of the Shamkhalát of Tarki, are in favour with
the Russian Government?"

"I never reckoned on its friendship, nor feared its enmity."

"Fear it not, but do not despise it. Do you know that an express, sent from Tarki to Yermóloff,
arrived a moment too late, to request him to show no mercy, but to execute you as a traitor?
The Shamkhál was before ready to betray you with a kiss, if he could; but now, that you have
sent back his blind daughter to him, he no longer conceals his hate."

"Who will dare to touch me, under Verkhóffsky's protection?"

"Hark ye, Ammalát; I will tell you a fable:--A sheep went into a kitchen to escape the wolves,
and rejoiced in his luck, flattered by the caresses of the cooks. At the end of three days
he was in the pot. Ammalát, this is your story. 'Tis time to open your eyes. The man whom you
considered your first friend has been the first to betray you. You are surrounded, entangled
by treachery. My chief motive in meeting you was my desire to warn you. When Seltanetta was
asked in marriage, I was given to understand from the Shamkhál, that through him I could more
readily make my peace with the Russians, than through the powerless Ammalát--that you would
soon be removed in some way or other, and that there was nothing to be feared from your rivalry.
I suspected still more, and learned more than I suspected. To-day I stopped the Shamkhál's
noúker, to whom the negotiations with Verkhóffsky were entrusted, and extracted from him, by
torture, that the Shamkhál offers a thousand ducats to get rid of you. Verkhóffsky hesitates,
and wishes only to send you to Siberia for ever. The affair is not yet decided; but to-morrow
the detachment retires to their quarters, and they have resolved to meet at your house in Bouináki,
to bargain about your blood. They will forge denunciations and charges--they will poison you
at your own table, and cover you with chains of iron, promising you mountains of gold." It
was painful to see Ammalát during this dreadful speech. Every word, like red-hot iron, plunged
into his heart; all within him that was noble, grand, or consoling, took fire at once, and
turned into ashes. Every thing in which he had so long and so trustingly confided, fell to
pieces, and shrivelled up in the flame of indignation. Several times he tried to speak, but
the words died away in a sickly gasp; and at last the wild beast which Verkhóffsky had tamed,
which Ammalát had lulled to sleep, burst from his chain: a flood of curses and menaces poured
from the lips of the furious Bek. "Revenge, revenge!" he cried, "merciless revenge, and woe
to the hypocrites!"

"This is the first word worthy of you," said the Khan, concealing the joy of success; "long
enough have you crept like a serpent, laying your head under the feet of the Russians! 'Tis
time to soar like an eagle to the clouds; to look down from on high upon the enemy who cannot
reach you with their arrows. Repay treachery with treachery, death with death!"

"Then death and ruin be to the Shamkhál, the robber of my liberty; and ruin be to Abdoul Moússelin,
who dared to stretch forth his hand to my treasure!"

"The Shamkhál? His son--his family? Are they worthy of your first exploits? They are all but
little loved by the Tarkovétzes; and if we attack the Shamkhál, they will give up his whole
family with their own hands. No, Ammalát, you must aim your first blow next to you; you must
destroy your chief enemy; you must kill Verkhóffsky."

"Verkhóffsky!" exclaimed Ammalát, stepping back.... "Yes!.... he is my enemy; but he was my
friend. He saved me from a shameful death.

"And has now sold you to a shameful life!.... A noble friend! And then you have yourself saved
him from the tusks of the wild-boar--a death worthy of a swine-eater! The first debt is paid,
the second remains due: for the destiny which he is so deceitfully preparing for you"....

"I feel ... this ought to be ... but what will good men say? What will my conscience say?"

"It is for a man to tremble before old women's tales, and before a whimpering child--conscience--when
honour and revenge are at stake? I see Ammalát, that without me you will decide nothing; you
will not even decide to marry Seltanetta. Listen to me. Would you be a son-in-law worthy of
me, the first condition is Verkhóffsky's death. His head shall be a marriage-gift for your
bride, whom you love, and who loves you. Not revenge only, but the plainest reasoning requires
the death of the Colonel. Without him, all Daghestán will remain several days without a chief,
and stupefied with horror. In this interval, we come flying upon the Russians who are dispersed
in their quarters. I mount with twenty thousand Avarétzes and Akoushétzes: and we fall from
the mountains like a cloud of snow upon Tarki. Then Ammalát, Shamkhál of Daghestán, will embrace
me as his friend, as his father-in-law. These are my plans, this is your destiny. Choose which
you please; either an eternal banishment, or a daring blow, which promises you power and happiness;
but know, that next time we shall meet either as kinsmen, or as irreconcilable foes!"

The Khan disappeared. Long stood Ammalát, agitated, devoured by new and terrible feelings.
At length Samit reminded him that it was time to return to the camp. Ignorant himself how and
where he had found his way to the shore, he followed his mysterious guide, found his horse,
and without answering a word to the thousand questions of Saphir Ali, rode up to his tent.
There, all the tortures of the soul's hell awaited him. Heavy is the first night of sorrow,
but still more terrible the first bloody thoughts of crime.

       *       *       *       *       *

REYNOLDS'S DISCOURSES. CONCLUSION.

We omit any notice of the other written works of Sir Joshua--his "Journey to Flanders and Holland,"
his Notes to Mason's verse translation of Du Fresnoy's Latin poem, "Art of Painting," and his
contributions to the "Idler." The former is chiefly a notice of pictures, and of value to those
who may visit the galleries where most of them may be found; and in some degree his remarks
will attach a value to those dispersed; the best part of the "Journey," perhaps, is his critical
discrimination of the style and genius of Rubens. The marrow of his Notes to Du Fresnoy's poem,
and indeed of his papers in the "Idler," has been transferred to his Discourses, which, as
they terminate his literary labours, contain all that he considered important in a discussion
on taste and art. The notes to Du Fresnoy may, however, be consulted by the practical painter
with advantage, as here and there some technical directions may be found, which, if of doubtful
utility in practice, will at least demand thought and reasoning upon this not unimportant part
of the art. To doubt is to reflect; judgment results, and from this, as a sure source, genius
creates. There are likewise some memoranda useful to artists to be read in Northcote's "Life."
The influence of these Discourses upon art in this country has been much less than might have
been expected from so able an exposition of its principles. They breathe throughout an admiration
of what is great, give a high aim to the student, and point to the path he should pursue to
attain it: while it must be acknowledged our artists as a body have wandered in another direction.
The Discourses speak to cultivated minds only. They will scarcely be available to those who
have habituated their minds to lower views of art, and have, by a fascinating practice, acquired
an inordinate love for its minor beauties. It is true their tendency is to teach, to cultivate:
but in art there is too often as much to unlearn as to learn, and the unlearning is the more
irksome task; prejudice, self-gratulation, have removed the humility which is the first step
in the ladder of advancement. With the public at large, the Discourses have done more; and
rather by the reflection from that improvement in the public taste, than from any direct appeal
to artists, our exhibitions have gained somewhat in refinement. And if there is, perhaps, less
vigour now, than in the time of Sir Joshua, Wilson, and Gainsborough, those fathers of the
English School, we are less seldom disgusted with the coarseness, both of subject and manner,
that prevailed in some of their contemporaries and immediate successors. In no branch of art
is this improvement more shown than in scenes of familiar life--which meant, indeed "Low Life."
Vulgarity has given place to a more "elegant familiar." This has necessarily brought into play
a nicer attention to mechanical excellence, and indeed to all the minor beauties of the art.
We almost fear too much has been done this way, because it has been too exclusively pursued,
and led astray the public taste to rest satisfied with, and unadvisedly to require, the less
important perfections. From that great style which it may be said it was the sole object of
the Discourses to recommend, we are further off than ever. Even in portrait, there is far less
of the historical, than Sir Joshua himself introduced into that department--an adoption which
he has so ably defended by his arguments. But nothing can be more unlike the true historical,
as defined in the precepts of art, than the modern representation of national (in that sense,
historical) events. The precepts of the President have been unread or disregarded by the patronized
historical painters of our day. It would seem to be thought a greater achievement to identify
on canvass the millinery that is worn, than the characters of the wearers, silk stockings,
and satins, and faces, are all of the same common aim of similitude; arrangement, attitude,
and peculiarly inanimate expression, display of finery, with the actual robes, as generally
announced in the advertisement, render such pictures counterparts, or perhaps inferior counterfeits
to Mrs Jarley's wax-work. And, like the wax-work, they are paraded from town to town, to show
the people how much the tailor and mantua-maker have to do in state affairs; and that the greatest
of empires is governed by very ordinary-looking personages. Even the Venetian painters, called
by way of distinction the "Ornamental School," deemed it necessary to avoid prettinesses and
pettinesses, and by consummate skill in artistical arrangement in composition, in chiaro-scuro
and colour, to give a certain greatness to the representations of their national events. There
is not, whatever other faults they may have, this of poverty, in the public pictures of Venice;
they are at least of a magnificent ambition: they are far removed from the littleness of a
show. We are utterly gone out of the way of the first principles of art in our national historical
pictures. Yet was the great historical the whole subject of the Discourses--it was to be the
only worthy aim of the student. If the advice and precepts of Sir Joshua Reynolds have, then,
been so entirely disregarded, it may be asked what benefit he has conferred upon the world
by his Discourses. We answer, great. He has shown what should be the aim of art, and has therefore
raised it in the estimation of the cultivated. His works are part of our standard literature;
they are in the hands of readers, of scholars; they materially help in the formation of a taste
by which literature is to be judged and relished. Even those who never acquire any very competent
knowledge of, or love for pictures, do acquire a respect for art, connect it with classical
poetry--the highest poetry, with Homer, with the Greek drama, with all they have read of the
venerated works of Phidias, Praxiteles, and Apelles; and having no too nice discrimination,
are credulous of, or anticipate by remembering what has been done and valued--the honour of
the profession. We assert that, by bringing the precepts of art within the pale of our accepted
literature, Sir Joshua Reynolds has given to art a better position. Would that there were no
counteracting circumstances which still keep it from reaching its proper rank! Some there are,
which materially degrade it, amongst which is the attempt to force patronage; the whole system
of Art Unions, and of Schools of Design, the "in formâ pauperis" petitioning and advertising,
and the rearing innumerable artists, ill-educated in all but drawing, and mere degrading still,
the binding art, as it were, apprenticed to manufacture in such Schools of Design; connecting,
in more than idea, the drawer of patterns with the painter of pictures. Hence has arisen, and
must necessarily arise, an inundation of mediocrity, the aim of the painter being to reach
some low-prize mark, an unnatural competition, inferior minds brought into the profession,
a sort of painting-made-easy school, and pictures, like other articles of manufacture, cheap
and bad. We should say decidedly, that the best consideration for art, and the best patronage
too, that we would give to it, would be to establish it in our universities of Cambridge and
Oxford. In those venerated places to found professorships, that a more sure love and more sure
taste for it may be imbedded with every other good and classical love and taste in the early
minds of the youth of England's pride, of future patrons; and where painters themselves may
graduate, and associate with all noble and cultivated minds, and be as much honoured in their
profession as any in those usually called "learned." But to return to Sir Joshua. He conferred
upon his profession not more benefit by his writings and paintings, than by his manners and
conduct. To say that they were irreproachable would be to say little--they were such as to
render him an object of love and respect. He adorned a society at that time remarkable for
men of wit and wisdom. He knew that refinement was necessary for his profession, and he studiously
cultivated it--so studiously, that he brought a portion of his own into that society from which
he had gathered much. He abhorred what was low in thought, in manners, and in art. And thus
he tutored his genius, which was great rather from the cultivation of his judgment, by incessantly
exercising his good sense upon the task before him, than from any innate very vigorous power.
He thought prudence the best guide of life, and his mind was not of an eccentric daring, to
rush heedlessly beyond the bounds of discretion. And this was no small proof of his good sense;
when the prejudice of the age in which he lived was prone to consider eccentricity as a mark
of genius; and genius itself, inconsistently with the very term of a silly admiration, an inspiration,
that necessarily brought with it carelessness and profligacy. By his polished manners, his
manly virtues, and his prudential views, which mainly formed his taste, and enabled him to
disseminate taste, Sir Joshua rescued art from this degrading prejudice, which, while it flattered
vanity and excused vice, made the objects of the flattery contemptible and inexcusable. If
genius be a gift, it is one that passes through the mind, and takes its colour; the love of
all that is pure, and good, and great, can alone invest genius with that habit of thought which,
applied to practice, makes the perfect painter. Castiglione considered painting the proper
acquirement of the perfect gentleman--Sir Joshua Reynolds thought that to be in mind and manners
the "gentlemen," was as necessary to perfect the painter. The friend of Johnson and Burke,
and of all persons of that brilliant age, distinguished by abilities and worth, was no common
man. In raising himself, he was ever mindful to raise the art to which he had devoted himself,
in general estimation.

We have noticed a charge against the writer of the Discourses, that he did not pursue that
great style which he so earnestly recommended. Besides that this is not quite true--for he
unquestionably did adopt so much of the great manner as his subjects would, generally speaking,
allow--there was a sufficient reason for the tone he adopted, that it was one useful and honourable,
and none can deny that it was suited to his genius. He was doubtless conscious of his own peculiar
powers, and contemplated the degree of excellence which he attained. He felt that he could
advance that department of his profession, and surely no unpardonable prudential views led
him to the adoption of it. It was the one, perhaps, best suited to his abilities; and there
is nothing in his works which might lead us to suspect that he would have succeeded so well
in any other. The characteristic of his mind was a nice observation. It was not in its native
strength creative. We doubt if Sir Joshua Reynolds ever attempted a perfectly original creation--if
he ever designed without having some imitation in view. We mean not to say, that in the process
he did not take slight advantages of accidents, and, if the expression may be used, by a second
sort of creation, make his work in the end perfectly his own. But we should suppose that his
first conceptions for his pictures, (of course, we speak principally of those not strictly
portraits,) came to him through his admiration of some of the great originals, which he had
so deeply studied. In almost every work by his hand, there is strongly marked his good sense--almost
a prudent forbearance. He ever seemed too cautious not to dare beyond his tried strength, more
especially in designing a subject of several figures. His true genius as alone conspicuous
in those where much of the portrait was admissible; and such was his "Tragic Muse," a strictly
historical picture: was it equally discernible in his "Nativity" for the window in New College
Chapel? We think not. There is nothing in his "Nativity" that has not been better done by others;
yet, as a whole, it is good; and if the subject demands a more creative power, and a higher
daring than was habitual to him, we are yet charmed with the good sense throughout; and while
we look, are indisposed to criticise. We have already remarked how much Sir Joshua was indebted
to a picture by Domenichino for the "Tragic Muse." Every one knows that he borrowed the "Nativity"
from the "Notte" of Correggio, and perhaps in detail from other and inferior masters. His "Ugolino"
was a portrait, or a study, in the commencement; it owes its excellence to its retaining this
character in its completion. If we were to point to failures, in single figures, (historical,)
we should mention his "Puck" and his "Infant Hercules." The latter we only know from the print.
Here he certainly had an opportunity of displaying the great style of Michael Angelo; it was
beyond his daring; the Hercules is a sturdy child, and that is all, we see not the ex pede
Herculem. We can imagine the colouring, especially of the serpents and back-ground, to have
been impressive. The picture is in the possession of the Emperor of Russia. The "Puck" is a
somewhat mischievous boy--too substantially, perhaps heavily, given for the fanciful creation.
The mushroom on which he is perched is unfortunate in shape and colour; it is too near the
semblance of a bullock's heart. His "Cardinal Beaufort," powerful in expression, has been,
we think, captiously reprehended for the introduction of the demon. The mind's eye has the
privilege of poetry to imagine the presence; the personation is therefore legitimate to the
sister art. The National Gallery is not fortunate enough to possess any important picture of
the master in the historical style. The portraits there are good. There was, we have been given
to understand, an opportunity of purchasing for the National Gallery the portrait of himself,
which Sir Joshua presented to his native town of Plympton as his substitute, having been elected
mayor of the town--an honour that was according to the expectation of the electors thus repaid.
The Municipal Reform brought into office in the town of Plympton, as elsewhere, a set of men
who neither valued art nor the fame of their eminent townsman. Men who would convert the very
mace of office into cash, could not be expected to keep a portrait; so it was sold by auction,
and for a mere trifle. It was offered to the nation; and by those whose business it was to
cater for the nation, pronounced a copy. The history of its sale did not accompany the picture;
when that was known, as it is said, a very large sum was offered, and refused. It is but justice
to the committee to remind them of the fact, that Sir Joshua himself, as he tells us, very
minutely examined a picture which he pronounced to be his own, and which was nevertheless a
copy. Unquestionably his genius was for portrait; it suited his strictly observant character;
and he had this great requisite for a portrait-painter, having great sense himself, he was
able to make his heads intellectual. His female portraits are extremely lovely; he knew well
how to represent intellect, enthusiasm, and feeling. These qualities he possessed himself.
We have observed, in the commencement of these remarks upon the Discourses, that painters do
not usually paint beyond themselves, either power or feeling--beyond their own grasp and sentiments;
it was the habitual good sense and refinement of moral feeling that made Sir Joshua Reynolds
so admirable a portrait-painter. He has been, and we doubt not justly, celebrated as a colourist.
Unfortunately, we are not now so capable of judging, excepting in a few instances, of this
his excellence. Some few years ago, his pictures, to a considerable amount in number, were
exhibited at the British Institution. We are forced to confess that they generally looked too
brown--many of them dingy, many loaded with colour, that, when put on, was probably rich and
transparent: we concluded that they had changed. Though Sir Joshua, as Northcote in his very
amusing Memoirs of the President assures us, would not allow those under him to try experiments,
and carefully locked up his own, that he might more effectually discourage the attempt--considering
that, in students, it was beginning at the wrong end--yet was he himself a great experimentalist.
He frequently used wax and varnish; the decomposition of the latter (mastic) would sufficiently
account for the appearance those pictures wore. We see others that have very much faded; some
that are said to be faded may rather have been injured by cleaners; the colouring when put
on with much varnish not bearing the process of cleaning, may have been removed, and left only
the dead and crude work. It has been remarked, that his pictures have more especially suffered
under the hands of restorers. It must be very difficult for a portrait-painter, much employed,
and called upon to paint a portrait, where short time and few sittings are the conditions,
to paint a lasting work. He is obliged to hasten the drying of the paint, or to use injurious
substances, which answer the purpose only for a short present. Sir Joshua, too, was tempted
to use orpiment largely in some pictures, which has sadly changed. An instance may be seen
in the "Holy Family" in our National Gallery--the colour of the flesh of the St John is ruined
from this cause. It is, however, one of his worst pictures, and could not have been originally
designed for a "holy family." The Mater is quite a youthful peasant girl: we should not regret
it if it were totally gone. Were Sir Joshua living, and could he see it in its present state,
he would be sure to paint over it, and possibly convert it into another subject. We do not
doubt, however, that Sir Joshua deserved the reputation he obtained as a colourist in his day.
We attribute the brown, the horny asphaltum look they have, to change. It is unquestionably
exceedingly mortifying to see, while the specimens of the Venetian and Flemish colourists are
at this day so pure and fresh, though painted centuries before our schools, our comparatively
recent productions so obscured and otherwise injured. Tingry, excellent authority, the Genevan
chemical professor, laments the practice of the English painters of mixing varnish with their
colours, which, he says, shows that they prefer a temporary brilliancy to lasting beauty; for
that it is impossible, that with this practice, pictures should either retain their brilliancy
or even be kept from decay. We do not remember to have seen a single historical picture of
Sir Joshua's that has not suffered; happily there are yet many of his portraits fresh, vigorous,
and beautiful in colouring. It should seem, that he thought it worth while to speculate upon
those of least value to his reputation.

Portrait-painting, at the commencement of Sir Joshua's career, was certainly in a very low
condition. A general receipt for face-making, with the greatest facility seemed to have been
current throughout the country. Attitudes and looks were according to a pattern; and, accordingly,
there was so great a family resemblance, however unconnected the sitters, that it might seem
to have been intended to promote a brotherly and sisterly bond of union among all the descendants
of Adam. Portrait-painting, which had in this country been so good, was in fact, with here
and there an exception, and generally an exception not duly estimated, in a degraded state:
the art in this respect, as in others, had become vulgarized. From this universal family-likeness
recipe, Reynolds came suddenly, and at once successfully, before the world, with individual
nature, and variety of character, and portraits that had the merit of being pictures as well
as portraits. He led to a complete revolution in this department, so that if he had rivals--and
he certainly had one in Gainsborough--they were of his own making. The change is mostly perceptible
in female portraits. They assumed grace and beauty. Our grandmothers and great-grandmothers
were strangely vilified in their unpleasing likenesses. The somewhat loose satin evening-dress,
with the shepherdess's crook, was absurd enough; and no very great improvement upon the earlier
taste of complimenting portraits with the personation of the heathen deities. The poetical
pastoral, however, very soon descended to the real pastoral; and, as if to make people what
they were not was considered enough of the historical of portrait, even this took. We suspect
Gainsborough was the first to sin in this degradation line, by no means the better one for
being the furthest from the divinities. He had painted some rustic figures very admirably,
and made such subjects a fashion; but why they should ever be so, we could never understand;
or why royalty should not be represented as royalty, gentry as gentry; to represent them otherwise,
appears as absurd as if our Landseer should attempt a greyhound in the character of a Newfoundland
dog. A picture of Gainsborough's was exhibited, a year or two ago, in the British Institution,
Pall-Mall, which we were astonished to hear was most highly valued; for it was a weak, washy,
dauby, ill-coloured performance, and the design as bad as well could be. It was a scene before
a cottage-door, with the children of George the Third as peasant children, in village dirt
and mire. The picture had no merit to recommend it; if we remember rightly, it had been painted
over, or in some way obscured, and unfortunately brought to light. Although Sir Joshua Reynolds
generally introduced a new grace into his portraits, and mostly so without deviating from the
character as he found it, dispensing indeed with the old affectation, we fear he cannot altogether
be acquitted from the charge of deviating from the true propriety of portrait. Ladies as Miranda,
as Hebe, and even as Thais, no very moral compliment, are examples--some there are of the lower
pastoral. Mrs Macklin and her daughter were represented at a spinning-wheel, and Miss Potts
as a gleaner. There is one of somewhat higher pretensions, but equally a deviation from propriety,
in his portraits of the Honourable Mistresses Townshend, Beresford, and Gardiner. They are
decorating the statue of Hymen; the grace of one figure is too theatrical, the others have
but little. The one kneeling on the ground, and collecting the flowers, is, in one respect,
disagreeable--the light of the sky, too much of the same hue and tone as the face, is but little
separated from it--in fact, only by the dark hair; while all below the face and bosom is a
too heavy dark mass. Portrait-painters are very apt to fail whenever they colour their back-grounds
to the heads of a warm and light sky-colour; the force of the complexion is very apt to be
lost, and the portrait is sure to lose its importance. The "General on Horseback," in our National
Gallery, (Ligonier,) a fine picture, is in no small degree hurt by the absence of a little
greyer tone in the part of the sky about the head. By far the best portraits by Sir Joshua--and,
fortunately, they are the greater part--are those in real character. His very genius was for
unaffected simplicity; attitudinizing recipes could never have been adopted by him with satisfaction
to himself. Some of his slight, more sketchy portraits, as yet unexperimented upon by his powerful,
frequently rather too powerful, colouring, his deep browns and yellows, are unrivalled. Such
is his Kitty Fisher, not long since exhibited in the British Gallery, Pall-Mall. There the
character is not overpowered by the effect.

Gainsborough was the only painter of his day that could, with any pretension, vie with Sir
Joshua Reynolds in portrait. In some respects they had similar excellences. Both were alike,
by natural taste, averse to affectation, and both were colourists. As a colourist, Gainsborough,
as his pictures are now, may be even preferred to Reynolds. They seem to have been painted
off more at once, and have therefore a greater freshness; his flesh tints are truly surprising,
most true to life. He probably painted with a more simple palette. The pains and labour which
Sir Joshua bestowed, and which were perhaps very surprising when his pictures were fresh from
the easel, have lost much of their virtue. The great difference between these great cotemporaries
lay in their power of character. Gainsborough was as true as could be to nature, where the
character was not of the very highest order. Plain, downright common sense he would hit off
wonderfully, as in his portrait of Ralphe Schomberg--a picture, we are sorry to find, removed
from the National Gallery. The world's every-day men were for his pencil. He did not so much
excel in women. The bent of Sir Joshua's mind was to elevate, to dignify, to intellectualize.
Enthusiasm, sentiment, purity, and all the varied poetry of feminine beauty, received their
kindred hues and most exquisite expression under his hand. Whatever was dignified in man, or
lovely in woman, was portrayed with its appropriate grace and strength. Sir Joshua was, in
fact, himself the higher character; ever endeavouring to improve and cultivate his own mind,
to raise it by a dignified aim in his art and in his life, and gathering the beauty of sentiment
to himself from its best source--the practice of social and every amiable charity--he was sure
to transfer to the canvass something characteristic of himself. Gainsborough was, in his way,
a gentle enthusiast, altogether of an humbler ambition. Even in his landscapes, he showed that
he saw little in nature but what the vulgar see; he had little idea that what is commonly seen
are the materials of a better creation. Gainsborough was unrivalled in his portraiture of common
truth, Reynolds in poetical truth. Gainsborough spoke in character in one of his letters, wherein
he said, that he "was well read in the volume of nature, and that was learning sufficient for
him." It is said that he was proud--perhaps his pride was shown in this remark--but it was
not a pride allied with greatness. The pride of Reynolds was quite of another stamp; it did
not disagree with his soundest judgment; his estimate of himself was more true, and it showed
itself in modesty. That such men should meet and associate but little, is not surprising. That
Reynolds withdrew in "cold and carefully meted out courtesy," is not surprising, though the
expressions quoted are written to disparage Reynolds. The man of fixed purpose may appear cold
when he does not assimilate with the man of caprice, (as was Gainsborough,) in whose company
there is nothing to call forth a congeniality, a sympathy; and it is probable that Gainsborough
felt as little disposed as Sir Joshua, to preserve, or even to seek, an intimacy. Their final
parting at the deathbed of Gainsborough was most honourable to them both; and the merit of
seeking it was entirely Gainsborough's. It is singular that any facts should be so perverted,
as to justify an insinuation that Reynolds, whose whole life exhibited the continued acts of
a kind heart, was a cautious and cold calculator. Good sense has ever a reserve of manner,
the result of a habit of thinking--and in one of a high aim, it is apt to acquire almost a
stateliness; but even such stateliness is not inconsistent with modesty and with feeling; it
is, in fact, the carriage of the mind, seen in the manner and the person. We make these remarks
under a disgust produced by the singularly illiberal Life of Reynolds by Allan Cunningham;
we think we should not err in saying, that it is maliciously written. We were reading this
Life, and made many indignant remarks as we read, when the death of the author was announced
in the newspapers. We had determined, as far as our power might extend, to rescue the name
and fame of Reynolds from the mischief which so popular a writer as Allan Cunningham was likely
to inflict. Death has its sanctity, and we hesitated; indeed, in regret for the loss of a man
of talent, we felt for a time little disposed to think of the ill he may have done; nor was,
on mature consideration, the regret less, that he could not, by our means, be called to review
his own work--his "Lives of the British Painters"--in a more candid spirit than that in which
they appear to have been written. It is to be lamented that he did not revise it. Its illiberality
and untruth render it very unfit for a "Family Library," for which it was composed. Yet it
must be confessed, that such regret was rather one of momentary feeling, than accompanied with
any thing like conviction, or even hope, that our endeavour would have been successful. There
was no one better acquainted with the life of one of the painters in his work than ourselves.
His Life, too, was written in a most illiberal spirit, though purposely in praise of the artist.
But it was as untrue as it was illiberal. In a paper in Blackwood, some years ago, we noticed
some of the errors and mistatements. This, we happen to know, was seen by the author of the
"Lives;" for we were, in consequence, applied to upon the subject; and there being an intention
expressed to bring out a new edition, we were invited to correct what was wrong. We did not
hesitate, and wrote some two or three letters for the purpose, and entertained but little doubt
of their having been favourably received, and that they would be used, until we were surprised
by a communication, that the author "was much obliged, but was perfectly satisfied with his
own account." That is, that he was much obliged for an endeavour to mislead him by falsehood.
For both accounts could not be true. There were, then, but small grounds to hope that Allan
Cunningham would have so revised his work, as to have done justice to Sir Joshua Reynolds.
Besides, after all, "respect for the dead" moves both ways. The question is between the recently
dead and the long since dead. In the literary world, and in the world of art, both yet live;
and the author of the Life has this advantage, that thousands read the "Family Library," whilst
but few, comparatively speaking, make themselves acquainted with Sir Joshua Reynolds and his
works. We revere this founder of our English school, and feel it due to the art we love, to
condemn the ungenerous and sarcastic spirit of The Life, by Allan Cunningham. And if the dead
could have any interest in and guidance of things on earth, we can imagine no work that would
be more pleasing to them, than the removal of even the slightest evils they may have inflicted;
thus making restitution for them. It is very evident throughout the "Lives," that the author
has a prejudice against, an absolute dislike to, Sir Joshua Reynolds. We stay not to account
for it. There are men of some opinions who, whether from pride, or other feeling, have an antipathy
to courtly manners, and what is called higher society: jealous and suspicious lest they should
not owe, and seen to owe, every thing to themselves, there is a constant and irritable desire
to set aside, with a feigned, oftener than a real, contempt, the influence and the homage the
world pays to superiority of rank, station, and education. They would wish to have nothing
above themselves. How far such may have been the case with the writer of the "Lives," we know
not, totally unacquainted as we have ever been, but by his writings. In them there appears
very strongly marked this vulgar feeling. He has stepped out of his way in other lives, such
as those of Wilson and Gainsborough, to attack Sir Joshua by surmises and insinuations of meanness,
blurring the fair character of his best acts. The generous doings of the President were too
notorious not to be admitted, but generally a sinister or selfish motive is insinuated. His
courtesy was unpleasing, while extreme coarseness met with a ready apologist. In the several
Lives of Sir Joshua Reynolds, there does not appear the slightest ground upon which to found
a charge of meanness of character: it is inconceivable how such should have ever been insinuated,
while Northcote's "Life" of him was in existence, and Northcote must have known him well. He
was most liberal in expenditure, as became his station, and the dignity which he was ambitiously
desirous of conferring upon the art over which he presided. To artists and others in their
distresses he was most generous: numerous, indeed, are the recorded instances; those unrecorded
may be infinitely more numerous, for generosity was with him a habit. In the teeth of Mr Cunningham's
insinuations we will extract from Northcote some passages upon this point. "At that time, indeed,
Johnson was under many pecuniary obligations, as well as literary ones, to Sir Joshua, whose
generous kindness would never permit his friends to ask a pecuniary favour, his purse and heart
being always open." That his heart as well as his purse was open, the following anecdote more
than indicates. We are tempted to give it unaltered, as we find it in the words of Northcote:--

    "Sir Joshua, as his usual custom, looked over the daily morning
    paper at his breakfast time; and on one of those perusals,
    whilst reading an account of the Old Bailey sessions, to his
    great astonishment, saw that a prisoner had been tried and
    condemned to death for a robbery committed on the person of one
    of his own servants, a negro, who had been with him for some
    time. He immediately rung the bell for the servants, in order
    to make his enquiries, and was soon convinced of the truth of
    the matter related in the newspaper. This black man had lived
    in his service as footman for several years, and has been
    portrayed in several pictures, particularly in one of the
    Marquis of Granby, where he holds the horse of that general.
    Sir Joshua reprimanded this black servant for his conduct, and
    especially for not having informed him of this curious
    adventure; when the man said he had concealed it only to avoid
    the blame he should have incurred had he told it. He then
    related the following circumstances of the business, saying,
    that Mrs Anna Williams (the old blind lady lived at the house
    of Dr Johnson) had some time previous dined at Sir Joshua's
    with Miss Reynolds; that in the evening she went home to Bolt
    Court, Fleet Street, in a hackney coach, and that he had been
    sent to attend her to her house. On his return he had met with
    companions who had detained him till so late an hour, that when
    he came to Sir Joshua's house, he found the doors were shut,
    and all the servants gone to rest. In this dilemma he wandered
    in the street till he came to a watch-house, in which he took
    shelter for the remainder of the night, among the variety of
    miserable companions to be found in such places; and amidst
    this assembly of the wretched, the black man fell sound asleep,
    when a poor thief, who had been taken into custody by the
    constable of the night, perceiving, as the man slept, that he
    had a watch and money in his pocket, (which was seen on his
    thigh,) watched his opportunity and stole the watch, and with a
    penknife cut through the pocket, and so possessed himself of
    the money. When the black awaked from his nap, he soon
    discovered what had been done, to his cost, and immediately
    gave the alarm, and a strict search was made through the
    company; when the various articles which the black had lost
    were found in the possession of the unfortunate wretch who had
    stolen them. He was accordingly secured, and next morning
    carried before the justice, and committed to take his trial at
    the Old Bailey, (the black being bound over to prosecute,) and,
    as we have seen, was at his trial cast and condemned to death.
    Sir Joshua, much affected by this recital, immediately sent his
    principal servant, Ralph Kirkly, to make all enquiries into the
    state of the criminal, and, if necessary, to relieve his wants
    in whatever way could be done. When Kirkly came to the prison
    he was soon admitted to the cell of the prisoner, where he
    beheld the most wretched spectacle that imagination can
    conceive--a poor forlorn criminal, without a friend on earth
    who could relieve or assist him, and reduced almost to a
    skeleton by famine and filth, waiting till the dreadful morning
    should arrive when he was to be made an end of by a violent
    death. Sir Joshua now ordered fresh clothing to be sent to him,
    and also that the black servant should carry him every day a
    sufficient supply of food from his own table; and at that time
    Mr E. Burke being very luckily in office, he applied to him,
    and by their joint interest they got his sentence changed to
    transportation; when, after being furnished with all
    necessaries, he was sent out of the kingdom."--P. 119.

    "In this year Sir Joshua raised his price to fifty guineas for
    a head size, which he continued during the remainder of his
    life. His rapidly accumulating fortune was not, however, for
    his own sole enjoyment; he still felt the luxury of doing good,
    and had many objects of bounty pointed out to him by his friend
    Johnson, who, in one of his letters, in this year, to Mrs
    Piozzi, enquires 'will the master give me any thing for my poor
    neighbours? I have had from Sir Joshua and Mr Strahan.'"--P.
    264.

    "Sir Joshua, indeed, seems to have been applied to by his
    friends on all occasions; and by none oftener than by Dr
    Johnson, particularly for charitable purposes. Of this there is
    an instance, in a note of Johnson's preserved in his Life, too
    honourable to him to be here omitted.

The following anecdote is delightful:--

    "Whilst at Antwerp, Sir Joshua had taken particular notice of a
    young man of the name of De Gree, who had exhibited some
    considerable talents as a painter: his father was a tailor; and
    he himself had been intended for some clerical office, but, as
    it is said by a late writer, having formed a different opinion
    of his religion than was intended, from the books put into his
    hand by an Abbé who was his patron, it was discovered that he
    would not do for a priest, and the Abbé, therefore, articled
    him to Gerrards of Antwerp. Sir Joshua received him, on his
    arrival in England, with much kindness, and even recommended
    him most strongly to pursue his profession in the metropolis;
    but De Gree was unwilling to consent to this, as he had been
    previously engaged by Mrs Latouche to proceed to Ireland. Even
    here Sir Joshua's friendly attentions did not cease, for he
    actually made the poor artist a present of fifty guineas to fit
    him for his Hibernian excursion; the whole of which, however,
    the careful son sent over to Antwerp for the use of his aged
    parents."--P. 284.

    "It is also recorded, as an instance of his prizing
    extraordinary merit, that when Gainsborough asked him but sixty
    guineas for his celebrated Girl and Pigs, yet being conscious
    in his own mind that it was worth more, he liberally paid him
    down one hundred guineas for the picture. I also find it
    mentioned on record, that a painter of considerable merit,
    having unfortunately made an injudicious matrimonial choice,
    was along with that and its consequences as well as an
    increasing family, in a few years reduced so very low, that he
    could not venture out without danger of being arrested--a
    circumstance which, in a great measure, put it out of his power
    to dispose of his pictures to advantage. Sir Joshua having
    accidentally heard of his situation, immediately hurried to his
    residence to enquire into the truth of it, when the unfortunate
    man told him all the melancholy particulars of his lot, adding,
    that forty pounds would enable him to compound with his
    creditors. After some further conversation, Sir Joshua took his
    leave, telling the distressed man he would do something for
    him; and when he was bidding him adieu at the door, he took him
    by the hand, and after squeezing it in a friendly way hurried
    off with that kind of triumph in his heart the exalted of human
    kind only know by experience whilst the astonished artist found
    that he had left in his hand a bank-note for one hundred
    pounds."

Of such traits of benevolence certainly many other instances may be recorded, but I shall only
mention two; "the one is the purchasing a picture of Zoffani, who was without a patron, and
selling it to the Earl of Carlisle for twenty guineas above the price given for it; and he
sent the advanced price immediately to Zoffani, saying 'he thought he had sold the picture
at first below its real value.'"

The other is--"the clergyman who succeeded Sir Joshua's father as master of the grammar-school
at Plympton, at his decease left a widow, who, after the death of her husband, opened a boarding
school for the education of young ladies. The governess who taught in this school had but few
friends in situations to enable them to do her much service, and her sole dependence was on
her small stipend from the school: hence she was unable to make a sufficiently reputable appearance
in apparel at their accustomed little balls. The daughter of the schoolmistress, her only child,
and at that time a very young girl, felt for the poor governess, and the pitiable insufficiency
in the article of finery; but being unable to help her from her own resources, devised within
herself a means by which it might be done otherwise. Having heard of the great fame of Sir
Joshua Reynolds, his character for generosity, and charity, and recollecting that he had formerly
belonged to the Plympton school, she, without mentioning a syllable to any of her companions,
addressed a letter to Sir Joshua, whom she had never even seen, in which she represented to
him the forlorn state of the poor governess's wardrobe, and begged the gift of a silk gown
for her. Very shortly after, they received a box containing silks of different patterns, sufficient
for two dresses, to the infinite astonishment of the simple governess, who was totally unable
to account for this piece of good fortune, as the compassionate girl was afraid to let her
know the means she had taken in order to procure the welcome present."--P. 307.

Mr Duyes, the artist, says--"malice has charged him with avarice, probably from his not having
been prodigal, like too many of his profession; his offer to me proves the contrary. At the
time that I made the drawings of the King at St Paul's after his illness, Reynolds complimented
me handsomely on seeing them, and afterwards observed, that the labour bestowed must have been
such, that I could not be remunerated from selling them; but if I would publish them myself,
he would lend me the money necessary, and engage to get me a handsome subscription among the
nobility."--P. 35l.

We will here mention an anecdote which we believe has never been published; we heard it from
our excellent friend, and enthusiastic admirer of all that taste, good sense, and good feeling
should admire and love, in art or out of it--now far advanced in years, and, like Sir Joshua,
blind, but full of enjoyment and conversation fresh as ever upon art, for he remembers and
hears, beloved by all who know him, G. Cumberland, Esq., author of "Outlines," &c. &c. He it
was who recommended Collins, the miniature-painter, to Sir Joshua. Now poor Collins was one
of the most nervous of men, morbidly distrustful of himself and his powers. Our friend showed
us a portrait of Collins, painted by himself, the very picture of most sensitive nervousness.
Well--Collins waited upon Sir Joshua, who gave him a picture to copy for him in miniature.
Collins took it, and trembled, and looked all diffidence as he examined Sir Joshua's original.
However, he took it home with him, and after some time came to Cumberland in great agitation,
expressing a conviction that he never could copy it, that he had destroyed three attempts,
and this, said he, is the best I can do, and I will destroy it. This Cumberland would not allow,
and took possession of it, and an admirable performance it is. Soon another was done, and Collins
took it to Sir Joshua, with many timid expressions and apologies for his inability, that he
feared displeasure for having undertaken a work above him. Sir Joshua looked at it, declared
it to be, as it was, a most excellent copy, and gave him more to do in the same way--telling
him to go to his scrutoire, open a drawer, and he would find some guineas, and to take out
twenty to pay himself. "Twenty guineas!" said Collins, "I should not have thought of receiving
more than three!" This kindness and liberality set up poor Collins with a better stock of self-confidence,
and he made his way to celebrity in his line, and to fortune.

Is it in human nature, that the man of whom such anecdotes are told, and truly told, could
be guilty of a mean unworthy action? Perhaps the reader will be curious to see how the writer
of the "British Painters," who, from the recent date of his publication, must have known all
these incidents, excepting the last, has converted some of them, by insinuating sarcasm, into
charges that blurr their virtue. We should say that he has omitted, where he could omit--where
he could not, he is compelled to contradict himself; for it is impossible that the insinuations,
and the facts, and occasional acknowledgments, should be together true of one and the same
man. We shall offer some specimens of this illiberal style:--A neighbour of Reynolds's first
advised him to settle in London. His success there made him remember this friendly advice--(the
neighbour's name was Cranch.) We quote now from Cunningham. "The timely counsel of his neighbour
Cranch would have long afterwards been rewarded with the present of a silver cup, had not accident
interfered. 'Death,' says Northcote, 'prevented this act of gratitude. I have seen the cup
at Sir Joshua's table.' The painter had the honour of the intention and the use of the cup--a
twofold advantage, of which he was not insensible."--Lives of British Painters, Vol. i, p.
220.--"Of lounging visitors he had great abhorrence, and, as he reckoned up the fruits of his
labours, 'Those idle people,' said this disciple of the grand historical school of Raphael
and Angelo--'those idle people do not consider that my time is worth five guineas an hour.'
This calculation incidentally informs us, that it was Reynolds's practice, in the height of
his reputation and success, to paint a portrait in four hours."--P. 251. In this Life, he could
depreciate art, (in a manner we are persuaded he could not feel,) because it lowered the estimation
of the painter whom he disliked. "One of the biographers of Reynolds imputes the reflections
contained in the conclusion of this letter, 'to that envy, which perhaps even Johnson felt,
when comparing his own annual gains with those of his more fortunate friend.' They are rather
to be attributed to the sense and taste of Johnson, who could not but feel the utter worthlessness
of the far greater part of the productions with which the walls of the Exhibition-room were
covered. Artists are very willing to claim for their profession and its productions rather
more than the world seems disposed to concede. It is very natural that this should be so; but
it is also natural, that man of Johnson's taste should be conscious of the dignity of his own
pursuits, and agree with the vast majority of mankind in ranking a Homer, a Virgil, a Milton,
or a Shakspeare, immeasurably above all the artists that ever painted or carved. Johnson, in
a conversation with Boswell, defined painting to be an art which could illustrate, but could
not inform."--P. 255. Does he so speak of this art in any other Life; and is not this view
false and ill-natured? Were not Raffaelle, Michael Angelo, Correggio, Titian, Piombo, epic poets?

"Johnson was a frequent and a welcome guest. Though the sage was not seldom sarcastic and overbearing,
he was endured and caressed, because he poured out the riches of his conversation more lavishly
than Reynolds did his wines." He was compelled, a sentence or two after, to add, "It was honourable
to that distinguished artist, that he perceived the worth of such men, and felt the honour
which their society shed upon him; but it stopped not here, he often aided them with his purse,
nor insisted upon repayment."--P. 258. We have marked "insisted"--it implies repayment was
expected, if not enforced; and it might have been said, that a mutual "honour" was conferred.
Speaking of Northcote's and Malone's account of Sir Joshua's "social and well-furnished table,"
he adds, "these accounts, however, in as far as regards the splendour of the entertainments,
must be received with some abatement. The eye of a youthful pupil was a little blinded by enthusiasm.
That of Malone was rendered friendly, by many acts of hospitality, and a handsome legacy; while
literary men and artists, who came to speak of books and paintings, cared little for the most
part about the delicacy of the entertainment, provided it were wholesome." Here he quotes at
length, no very good-natured account of the dinners given by Courteney.--P. 273. Even his sister,
poor Miss Reynolds, whom Johnson loved and respected, must have her share of the writer's sarcasm.
"Miss Reynolds seems to have been as indifferent about the good order of her domestics, and
the appearance of her dishes at table, as her brother was about the distribution of his wine
and venison. Plenty was the splendour, and freedom was the elegance, which Malone and Boswell
found in the entertainments of the artist."--P. 275. If Reynolds was sparing of his wine, the
word "plenty" was most inappropriate. Even the remark of Dunning, Lord Ashburton, is perverted
from its evident meaning, and as explained by Northcote, and the perversion casts a slur upon
Sir Joshua's guests; yet is it well known who they were. "Well, Sir Joshua," he said, "and
who have you got to dine with you to-day?--the last time I dined in your house, the company
was of such a sort, that by ----, I believe all the rest of the world enjoyed peace for that
afternoon."--P. 276. This is a gross idea, and unworthy a gentle mind. "By an opinion so critically
sagacious, and an apology for portrait-painting, which appeals so effectually to the kindly
side of human nature, Johnson repaid a hundred dinners."--P. 276. The liberality to De Gree
is shortly told.--P. 298. "I have said that the President was frugal in his communications
respecting the sources from whence he drew his own practice--he forgets his caution in one
of these notes."--P. 303. We must couple this with some previous remarks; it is well known
that Sir Joshua, as Northcote tells us, carefully locked up his experiments, and for more reasons
than one: first, he was dissatisfied, as these were but experiments; secondly, he considered
experimenting would draw away pupils from the rudiments of the art. Surely nothing but illiberal
dislike would have perverted the plain meaning of the act. "The secret of Sir Joshua's own
preparations was carefully kept--he permitted not even the most favoured of his pupils to acquire
the knowledge of his colours--he had all securely locked, and allowed no one to enter where
these treasures were deposited. What was the use of all this secrecy? Those who stole the mystery
of his colours, could not use it, unless they stole his skill and talent also. A man who, like
Reynolds, chooses to take upon himself the double office of public and private instructor of
students in painting, ought not surely to retain a secret in the art, which he considers of
real value."--P. 287. He was, in fact, too honest to mislead; and that he did not think the
right discovery made, the author must have known; for Northcote says--"when I was a student
at the Royal Academy, I was accidentally repeating to Sir Joshua the instructions on colouring
I had heard there given by an eminent painter, who then attended as visitor. Sir Joshua replied,
that this painter was undoubtedly a very sensible man, but by no means a good colourist; adding,
that there was not a man then on earth who had the least notion of colouring. 'We all of us,'
said he, 'have it equally to seek for and find out--as, at present, it is totally lost to the
art.'"--"In his economy he was close and saving; while he poured out his wines and spread out
his tables to the titled or the learned, he stinted his domestics to the commonest fare, and
rewarded their faithfulness by very moderate wages. One of his servants, who survived till
lately, described him as a master who exacted obedience in trifles--was prudent in the matter
of pins--a saver of bits of thread--a man hard and parsimonious, who never thought he had enough
of labour out of his dependents, and always suspected that he overpaid them. To this may be
added the public opinion, which pictured him close, cautious, and sordid. On the other side,
we have the open testimony of Burke, Malone, Boswell, and Johnson, who all represent him as
generous, open-hearted, and humane. The servants and the friends both spoke, we doubt not,
according to their own experience of the man. Privations in early life rendered strict economy
necessary; and in spite of many acts of kindness, his mind, on the whole, failed to expand
with his fortune. He continued the same system of saving when he was master of sixty thousand
pounds, as when he owned but sixpence. He loved reputation dearly, and it would have been well
for his fame, if, over and above leaving legacies to such friends as Burke and Malone, he had
opened his heart to humbler people. A little would have gone a long way--a kindly word and
a guinea prudently given."--P. 319. Opened his heart to humbler people! was the author of this
libel upon a generous character, ignorant of his charity to humbler people, which Johnson certified?
Why did he not narrate the robbery of the black servant, and his kindness to the humblest and
the most wretched? What was fifty guineas to poor De Gree? Who were the humbler people to whom
he denied his bounty? And is the fair fame, the honest reputation--the honourable reputation,
we should say--of such a man as Sir Joshua Reynolds--such as he has been proved to be--such
as not only such men as Burke and Johnson knew him, but such as his pupil and inmate Northcote
knew him--to be vilified by a low-minded biography, the dirty ingredients of which are raked
up from lying mouths, or, at least, incapable of judging of such a character--from the lips
of servants, whose idle tales of masters who discard them, it is the common usage of the decent,
not to say well-bred world, to pay no attention to--not to listen to--and whom none hear but
the vulgar-curious, or the slanderous? But if a servant's evidence must be taken, the fact
of the exhibition of Sir Joshua's works for his servant Kirkly should have been enough--to
say nothing here of his black servant. But the story of Kirkly is mentioned--and how mentioned?
To rake up a malevolent or a thoughtless squib of the day, to make it appear that Sir Joshua
shared in the gains of an exhibition ostensibly given to his servant. The joke is noticed by
Northcote, and the exhibition, thus:--"The private exhibition of 1791, in the Haymarket, has
been already mentioned, and some notice taken of it by a wicked wit, who, at the time, wished
to insinuate that Sir Joshua was a partaker in the profits. But this was not the truth; neither
do I believe there were any profits to share. However, these lines from Hudibras were inserted
in a morning paper, together with some observations on the exhibition of pictures collected
by the knight--

    'A squire he had whose name was Ralph
    Who in the adventure went his half,'

thus gaily making a sacrifice of truth to a joke." It is very evident that this was a mere
newspaper squib, and suggested by the "knight and his squire Ralph;" but Cunningham so gives
it as "the opinion of many," and with rather more than a suspicion of its truth. "Sir Joshua
made an exhibition of them in the Haymarket, for the advantage of his faithful servant Ralph
Kirkly; but our painter's well-known love of gain excited public suspicion; he was considered
by many as a partaker in the profits, and reproached by the application of two lines from Hudibras."--P.
117. But this report from a servant is evidently no servant's report at all, as far as the
words go: they are redolent throughout of the peculiar satire of the author of the "Lives,"
who so loves point and antithesis, who tells us Sir Joshua "poured" out his wines, (the distribution
of which he had otherwise spoken of,) that the stint to the servants may have its fullest opposition.
And again, as to the humbler, does he not contradict himself? He prefaces the fact that Sir
Joshua gave a hundred guineas to Gainsborough, who asked sixty, for his "Girl and Pigs," thus--"Reynolds
was commonly humane and tolerant; he could indeed afford, both in fame and purse, to commend
and aid the timid and needy."--P. 304. This is qualifying vilely a generous action, while it
contradicts his assertion of being sparing of "a kindly word and a guinea." Nor are the occasional
criticisms on passages in the "Discourses" in a better spirit, nor are they exempt from a vulgar
taste as to views of art; their sole object is, apparently, to depreciate Reynolds; and though
a selection of individual sentences might be picked out, as in defence, of an entirely laudatory
character, they are contradicted by others, and especially by the sarcastic tone of the Life,
taken as a whole. But it is not only in the Life of Reynolds that this attempt is made to depreciate
him. In his "Lives" of Wilson and Gainsborough, he steps out of his way to throw his abominable
sarcasm upon Reynolds. One of many passages in Wilson's Life says, "It is reported that Reynolds
relaxed his hostility at last, and, becoming generous when it was too late, obtained an order
from a nobleman for two landscapes at a proper price." So he insinuates an unworthy hypocrisy,
while lauding the bluntness of Wilson. "Such was the blunt honesty of his (Wilson's) nature,
that, when drawings were shown him which he disliked, he disdained, or was unable to give a
courtly answer, and made many of the students his enemies. Reynolds had the sagacity to escape
from such difficulties, by looking at the drawings and saying 'Pretty, pretty,' which vanity
invariably explained into a compliment."--P. 207. After having thus spoken shamefully of Sir
Joshua Reynolds in the body of his work, he reiterates all in a note, confirming all as his
not hasty but deliberate opinion, having "now again gone over the narrative very carefully,
and found it impossible, without violating the truth, to make any alteration of importance
as to its facts;" and though he has omitted so much which might have been given to the honour
of Reynolds, he is "unconscious of having omitted any enquiry likely to lead him aright."--P.
320. He may have made the enquiry without using the information--a practice not inconsistent
in such a biographer. For instance, when he assumes, that in the portrait of Beattie, the figures
of Scepticism, Sophistry, and Infidelity, represent Hume, Voltaire, and Gibbon; remarking,
that they have survived the "insult of Reynolds." An enquiry from Northcote ought to have led
him to conclude otherwise, for Northcote, who had the best means of knowing, says, "Because
one of those figures was a lean figure, (alluding to the subordinate ones introduced,) and
the other a fat one, people of lively imaginations pleased themselves with finding in them
the portraits of Voltaire and Hume. But Sir Joshua, I have reason to believe, had no such thought
when he painted those figures." We have done with this disgusting Life. We would preserve to
art and the virtue-loving part of mankind the great integrity of the character of Sir Joshua
Reynolds. Documents and testimonies are sufficient to establish as much entire worth as falls
to the lot and adornment of the best; and to bring this conviction, that, for the justice,
candour, liberality, kindness, and generosity, which he showed in his dealings with all, even
his professional rivals, if he had not had the extraordinary merit of being the greatest British
painter, he deserved, and will deserve, the respect of mankind; and to have had his many and
great virtues recorded in a far other manner than in that among the "Lives of the British Painters."
His pictures may have faded, and may decay; but his precepts will still live, and tend to the
establishment and continuance of art built upon the soundest principles; and the virtues of
the man will ever give a grace to the profession which he adorned, and, for the benefit of
art, contribute mainly to his own fame.

"Nihil enim est opere aut manu factum, quod aliquando non conficiat et consumat Vetustas; at
vero hæc tua justitia et lenitas animi florescet quotidie magis, ita ut quantum operibus tuis
dinturnitas detrahet, tantum afferet laudibus."

"He had," says Burke, "from the beginning of his malady, a distinct view of his dissolution;
and he contemplated it with that entire composure, which nothing but the innocence, integrity,
and usefulness of his life, and an unaffected submission to the will of Providence, could bestow."

       *       *       *       *       *

LEAP-YEAR.--A TALE.

CHAPTER I.

In the summer of 1838, in the pleasant little county of Huntingdon, and under the shade of
some noble elms which form the pride of Lipscombe Park, two young men might have been seen
reclining. The thick, and towering, and far-spreading branches under which they lay, effectually
protected them from a July sun, which threw its scorching brilliancy over the whole landscape
before them. They seemed to enjoy to the full that delightful retired openness which an English
park affords, and that easy effortless communion which only old companionship can give. They
were, in fact, fellow collegians. The one, Reginald Darcy by name, was a ward of Mr Sherwood,
the wealthy proprietor of Lipscombe Park; the other, his friend, Charles Griffith, was passing
a few days with him in this agreeable retreat. They had spent the greater part of the morning
strolling through the park, making short journeys from one clump of trees to another, and traversing
just so much of the open sunny space which lay exposed to all the "bright severity of noon,"
as gave fresh value to the shade, and renewed the luxury of repose.

"Only observe," said Darcy, breaking silence, after a long pause, and without any apparent
link of connexion between their last topic of conversation and the sage reflection he was about
to launch--"only observe," and, as he raised himself upon his elbow, something very like a
sigh escaped from him, "how complete, in our modern system of life, is the ascendency of woman
over us! Every art is hers--is devoted to her service. Poetry, music, painting, sculpture--all
seem to have no theme but woman. It is her loveliness, her power over us, that is paraded and
chanted on every side. Poets have been always mad on the beauty of woman, but never so mad
as now; we must not only submit to be sense-enthralled, the very innermost spirit of a man
is to be deliberately resigned to the tyranny of a smooth brow and a soft eye. Music, which
grows rampant with passion, speaks in all its tones of woman: as long as the strain lasts we
are in a frenzy of love, though it is not very clear with whom, and happily the delirium ends
the moment the strings of the violin have ceased to vibrate. What subject has the painter worth
a rush but the beauty of woman? We gaze for ever on the charming face which smiles on us from
his canvass; we may gaze with perfect license--that veil which has just been lifted to the
brow, it will never be dropt again--but we do not gaze with perfect impunity; we turn from
the lovely shadow with knees how prone to bend! And as to the sculptor, on condition that he
hold to the pure colourless marble, is he not permitted to reveal the sacred charms of Venus
herself? Every art is hers. Go to the theatre, and whether it be tragedy, or comedy, or opera,
or dance, the attraction of woman is the very life of all that is transacted there. Shut yourself
up at home with the poem or the novel, and lo! to love, and to be loved, by one fair creature,
is all that the world has to dignify with the name of happiness. It is too much. The heart
aches and sickens with an unclaimed affection, kindled to no purpose. Every where the eye,
the ear, the imagination, is provoked, bewildered, haunted by the magic of this universal syren.

"And what is worse," continued our profound philosopher--and here he rose from his elbow, and
supported himself at arm's length from the ground, one hand resting on the turf, the other
at liberty, if required, for oratorical action--"what is worse, this place which woman occupies
in art is but a fair reflection of that which she fills in real life. Just heavens! what a
perpetual wonder it is, this living, breathing beauty! Throw all your metaphors to the winds--your
poetic raptures--your ideals--your romance of position and of circumstance: look at a fair,
amiable, cultivated woman, as you meet her in the actual, commonplace scenes of life: she is
literally, prosaically speaking, the last consummate result of the creative power of nature,
and the gathered refinements of centuries of human civilization. The world can show nothing
comparable to that light, graceful figure of the girl just blooming into perfect womanhood.
Imagination cannot go beyond it. There is all the marvel, if you think of it, in that slight
figure, as she treads across the carpet of a modern drawing-room, that has ever been expressed
in, or given origin to, the nymphs, goddesses, and angels that the fancy of man has teemed
with. I declare that a pious heathen would as soon insult the august statue of Minerva herself,
as would any civilized being treat that slender form with the least show of rudeness and indignity.
A Chartist, indeed, or a Leveller, would do it; but it would pain him--he would be a martyr
to his principles. Verily we are slaves to the fair miracle!"

"Well," said his companion, who had all this time been leisurely pulling to pieces some wild
flowers he had gathered in the course of the morning's ramble, "what does it all end in? What,
at last, but the old story--love and a marriage?"

"Love often where there is no possibility of marriage," replied Darcy, starting up altogether
from his recumbent posture, and pacing to and fro under the shadow of the tree. "The full heart,
how often does it swell only to feel the pressure of the iron bond of poverty! This very sentiment,
which our cultivation refines, fosters, makes supreme, is encountered by that harsh and cruel
evil which grows also with the growth of civilization--poverty--civilized poverty. Oh, 'tis
a frightful thing, this well-born, well-bred poverty! There is a pauper state, which, loathsome
as it is to look upon, yet brings with it a callousness to endure all inflictions, and a recklessness
that can seize with avidity whatever coarse fragments of pleasure the day or the hour may afford.
But this poverty applies itself to nerves strung for the subtlest happiness. No torpor here;
no moments of rash and unscrupulous gratification--unreflected on, unrepented of--which being
often repeated make, in the end, a large sum of human life; but the heart incessantly demands
a genuine and enduring happiness, and is incessantly denied. It is a poverty which even helps
to keep alive the susceptibility it tortures; for the man who has never loved, or been the
object of affection, whose heart has been fed only by an untaught imagination, feels a passion--feels
a regret--it may be far more than commensurate with that envied reality which life possesses
and withholds from him. No! there is nothing in the circle of human existence more fearful
to contemplate than this perpetual divorce--irrevocable, yet pronounced anew each instant of
our lives--between the soul and its best affections. And--look you!--this misery passes along
the world under the mask of easy indifference, and wears a smiling face, and submits to be
rallied by the wit, and assumes itself the air of vulgar jocularity. Oh, this penury that goes
well clad, and is warmly housed, and makes a mock of its own anguish--I'd rather die on the
wheel, or be starved to death in a dungeon!

"My excellent friend!" cried Griffith, startled from his quiescent posture, and tranquil occupation,
by the growing excitement of his companion, "what has possessed you? Is it the daughter of
our worthy host--is it Emily Sherwood, the nymph who haunts these woods--who has given birth
to this marvellous train of reflection? to this rhapsody on the omnipresence of woman, which
I certainly had never discovered, and on the misery of a snug bachelor's income, which to me
is still more incomprehensible? I confess, however, it would be difficult to find a better
specimen of this fearfully fascinating sex."--

"Pshaw!" interrupted Darcy, "what is the heiress of Lipscombe Park to me?--a girl who might
claim alliance with the wealthiest and noblest of the land--to me, who have just that rag of
property, enough to keep from open shame one miserable biped? Can a man never make a general
reflection upon one of the most general of all topics, without being met by a personal allusion?
I thought you had been superior, Griffith, to this dull and hackneyed retort."

"Well, well; be not wroth"--

"But I am. There is something so odious in this trite and universal banter. Besides, to have
it intimated, even in jest, that I would take advantage of my position in this family to pay
my ridiculous addresses to Miss Sherwood--I do declare, Griffith, I never will again to you,
or any other man, touch upon this subject, but in the same strain of unmeaning levity one is
compelled to listen to, and imitate, in the society of coxcombs."

"At all events," said Griffith, "give me leave to say that I admire Miss Sherwood, and that
I shall think it a crying shame if so beautiful and intelligent a girl is suffered to fall
into the clutches of this stupid baronet who is laying siege to her--this pompous, empty-headed
Sir Frederic Beaumantle."

"Sir Frederic Beaumantle," said Darcy, with some remains of humour, "may be all you describe
him, but he is very rich, and, mark me, he will win the lady. Old Sherwood suspects him for
a fool, but his extensive estates are unincumbered--he will approve his suit. His daughter
makes him a constant laughing-stock, she is perpetually ridiculing his presumption and his
vanity; but she will end by marrying the rich baronet. It will be in the usual course of things;
society will expect it; and it is so safe, so prudent, to do what society expects. Let wealth
wed with wealth. It is quite right. I would never advise any man to marry a woman much richer
than himself, so as to be indebted to her for his position in society. It is useless to say,
or to feel, that her wealth was not the object of your suit. You may carry it how you will--what
says the song?

      'She never will forget;
    The gold she gave was not thy gain,
      But it must be thy debt.'

"But come, our host is punctual to his dinner hour, and if we journey back at the same pace
we have travelled here, we shall not have much time upon our hands." And accordingly the two
friends set themselves in motion to return to the house.

Our readers have, of course, discovered that, in spite of his disclaimer, Reginald Darcy was
in love with Emily Sherwood. He was, indeed, very far gone, and had suffered great extremities;
but his pride had kept pace with his passion. Left an orphan at an early age, and placed by
the will of his father under the guardianship of Mr Sherwood, Darcy had found in the residence
of that gentleman a home during the holidays when a schoolboy, and during the vacations when
a collegian. Having lately taken his degree at Cambridge, with high honours, which had been
strenuously contended for, and purchased by severe labour, he was now recruiting his health,
and enjoying a season of well-earned leisure under his guardian's roof. As Mr Sherwood was
old and gouty, and confined much to his room, it fell on him to escort Emily in her rides or
walks. She whom he had known, and been so often delighted with, as his little playmate, had
grown into the young and lovely woman. Briefly, our Darcy was a lost man--gone--head and heart.
But then--she was the only daughter of Mr Sherwood, she was a wealthy heiress--he was comparatively
poor. Her father had been to him the kindest of guardians: ought he to repay that kindness
by destroying, perhaps, his proudest schemes? Ought he, a man of fitting and becoming pride,
to put himself in the equivocal position which the poor suitor of a wealthy heiress must inevitably
occupy? "He invites me," he would say to himself, "he presses me to stay here, week after week,
and month after month, because the idea that I should seek to carry away his daughter never
enters into his head. And she--she is so frank, so gay, so amiable, and almost fond, because
she has never recognized, with the companion of her childhood, the possibility of such a thing
as marriage. There is but one part for me--silence, strict, unbroken silence!"

Charles Griffith was not far from the truth, when he said that it would be difficult to find
a better specimen of her fascinating sex than the daughter of their host. But it was not her
beauty, remarkable as this was--it was not her brightest of blue eyes, nor her fairest of complexions,
nor those rich luxuriant tresses--that formed the greatest charm in Emily Sherwood. It was
the delightful combination she displayed of a cheerful vivacious temper with generous and ardent
feelings. She was as light and playful as one of the fawns in her own park, but her heart responded
also to every noble and disinterested sentiment; and the poet who sought a listener for some
lofty or tender strain, would have found the spirit that he wanted in the gay and mirth-loving
Emily Sherwood.

Poor Darcy! he would sit, or walk, by her side, talking of this or that, no matter what, always
happy in her presence, passing the most delicious hours, but not venturing to betray, by word
or look, how very content he was. For these hours of stolen happiness he knew how severe a
penalty he must pay: he knew and braved it. And in our poor judgment he was right. Let the
secret, stealthy, unrequited lover enjoy to the full the presence, the smiles, the bland and
cheerful society of her whom his heart is silently worshipping. Even this shall in future hours
be a sweet remembrance. By and by, it is true, there will come a season of poignant affliction.
But better all this than one uniform, perpetual torpor. He will have felt that mortal man may
breathe the air of happiness; he will have learned something of the human heart that lies within
him.

But all this love--was it seen--was it returned--by her who had inspired it? Both, both. He
thought, wise youth! that while he was swallowing draught after draught of this delicious poison,
no one perceived the deep intoxication he was revelling in. Just as wisely some veritable toper,
by putting on a grave and demure countenance, cheats himself into the belief that he conceals
from every eye that delectable and irresistible confusion in which his brain is swimming. His
love was seen. How could it be otherwise? That instantaneous, that complete delight which he
felt when she joined him in his rambles, or came to sit with him in the library, could not
be disguised nor mistaken. He was a scholar, a reader and lover of books, but let the book
be what it might which he held in his hand, it was abandoned, closed, pitched aside, the moment
she entered. There was no stolen glance at the page left still open; nor was the place kept
marked by the tenacious finger and thumb. If her voice were heard on the terrace, or in the
garden--if her laugh--so light, merry, and musical, reached his ear--there was no question
or debate whether he should go or stay, but down the stairs, or through the avenues of the
garden--he sprung--he ran;--only a little before he came in sight he would assume something
of the gravity becoming in a senior wrangler, or try to look as if he came there by chance.
His love was seen, and not with indifference. But what could the damsel do? How presume to
know of an attachment until in due form certified thereof? If a youth will adhere to an obstinate
silence, what, we repeat, can a damsel do but leave him to his fate, and listen to some other,
who, if he loves less, at least knows how to avow his love?

CHAPTER II.

We left the two friends proceeding towards the mansion; we enter before them, and introduce
our readers into the drawing-room. Here, in a spacious and shaded apartment, made cool, as
well by the massive walls of the noble edifice as by the open and protected windows, whose
broad balcony was blooming with the most beautiful and fragrant of plants, sat Emily Sherwood.
She was not, however, alone. At the same round table, which was covered with vases of flowers,
and with books as gay as flowers, was seated another young lady, Miss Julia Danvers, a friend
who had arrived in the course of the morning on a visit to Lipscombe Park. The young ladies
seemed to have been in deep consultation.

"I can never thank you sufficiently," said Miss Danvers, "for your kindness in this affair."

"Indeed but you can very soon thank me much more than sufficiently," replied her more lively
companion, "for there are few things in the world I dislike so much as thanks. And yet there
is one cause of thankfulness you have, and know not of. Here have I listened to your troubles,
as you call them, for more than two hours, and never once told you any of my own. Troubles!
you are, in my estimation, a very happy, enviable girl."

"Do you think it then so great a happiness to be obliged to take refuge from an absurd selfish
stepmother, in order to get by stealth one's own lawful way?"

"One's own way is always lawful, my dear. No tautology. But you have it--while I"----

"Well, what is the matter?"

"Julia, dear--now do not laugh--I have a lover that won't speak. I have another, or one who
calls himself such, who has spoken, or whose wealth, I fear, has spoken, to some purpose--to
my father."

"And you would open the mouth of the dumb, and stop the mouth of the foolish?"

"Exactly."

"Who are they? And first, to proceed by due climax, who is he whose mouth is to be closed?"

"A baronet of these parts, Sir Frederic Beaumantle. A vain, vain, vain man. It would be a waste
of good words to spend another epithet upon him, for he is all vanity. All his virtues, all
his vices, all his actions, good, bad, and indifferent, are nothing but vanity. He praises
you from vanity, abuses you from vanity, loves and hates you from vanity. He is vain of his
person, of his wealth, of his birth, of his title, vain of all he has, and all he has not.
He sets so great a value on his innumerable and superlative good qualities, that he really
has not been able (until he met with your humble servant) to find any individual of our sex
on whom he could, conscientiously, bestow so great a treasure as his own right hand must inevitably
give away. This has been the only reason--he tells me so himself--why he has remained so long
unmarried; for he has rounded the arch, and is going down the bridge. To take his own account
of this delicate matter, he is fluctuating, with an uneasy motion, to and fro, between forty
and forty-five."

"Old enough, I doubt not, to be your father. How can he venture on such a frolicsome young
thing as you?"

"I asked him that question myself one day; and he told me, with a most complacent smile, that
I should be the perfect compendium of matrimony--he should have wife and child in one."

"The old coxcomb! And yet there was a sort of providence in that.--Now, who is he whose mouth
is to be opened?"

"Oh--he!--can't you guess?"

"Your cousin Reginald, as you used to call him--though cousin I believe he is none--this learned
wrangler?"

"The same. Trust me, he loves me to the bottom of his heart; but because his little cousin
is a great heiress, he thinks it fit to be very proud, and gives me over--many thanks to him--to
this rich baronet. But here he comes."

As she spoke, Darcy and Griffith entered the room.

"We have been canvassing," said Emily, after the usual forms of introduction had been gone
through, "the merits of our friend, Sir Frederic Beaumantle. By the way, Reginald, he dines
here to-day, and so will another gentleman, whom I shall be happy to introduce to you, Captain
Garland, an esteemed friend of mine and Miss Danvers'."

"Sir Frederic seems," said Griffith, by way merely of taking part in the conversation, "at
all events, a very good-natured man. I have seen him but once, and he has already promised
to use all his influence in my behalf, in whatever profession I may embark. If medicine, I
am to have half-a-dozen dowagers, always ailing and never ill, put under my charge the moment
I can add M.D. to my name; not to speak of certain mysterious hints of an introduction at court,
and an appointment of physician extraordinary to Her Majesty. I suppose I may depend upon Sir
Frederic's promises?"

"Oh, certainly," said Miss Sherwood, "you may depend upon Sir Frederic Beaumantle's promises;
they will never fail; they are inexhaustible."

"The fool!" said Darcy with impatience, "I could forgive him any thing but that ridiculous
ostentation he has of patronizing men, who, but they have more politeness than himself, would
throw back his promises with open derision."

"Reginald," said Miss Sherwood, "is always forgiving Sir Frederic every fault but one. But
then that one fault changes every day. Last time he would pardon him every thing except the
fulsome eulogy he is in the habit of bestowing upon his friends, even to their faces. You must
know, Mr Griffith, that Sir Frederic is a most liberal chapman in this commodity of praise:
he will give any man a bushel-full of compliments who will send him back the measure only half
filled. Nay, if there are but a few cherries clinging to the wicker-work he is not wholly dissatisfied."

"What he gives he knows is trash," said Darcy; "what he receives he always flatters himself
to be true coin. But indeed Sir Frederic is somewhat more just in his dealings than you, perhaps,
imagine. If he bestows excessive laudation on a friend in one company, he takes it all back
again in the very next he enters."

"And still his amiability shines through all; for he abuses the absent friend only to gratify
the self-love of those who are present."

The door opened as Miss Sherwood gave this coup-de-grace to the character of the baronet, and
Sir Frederic Beaumantle was announced, and immediately afterwards, Captain Garland.

Miss Sherwood, somewhat to the surprise of Darcy, who was not aware that any such intimacy
subsisted between them, received Captain Garland with all the cordiality of an old acquaintance.
On the other hand she introduced the baronet to Miss Danvers with that slightly emphatic manner
which intimates that the parties may entertain a "high consideration" for each other.

"You are too good a herald, Sir Frederic," she said, "not to know the Danverses of Dorsetshire."

"I shall be proud," replied the baronet, "to make the acquaintance of Miss Danvers."

"She has come to my poor castle," continued Miss Sherwood, "like the distressed princess in
the Faery Queen, and I must look out for some red-cross knight to be her champion, and redress
her wrongs."

"It is not the first time," said the lady thus introduced, "that I have heard of the name of
Sir Frederic Beaumantle."

"I dare say not, I dare say not," answered the gratified baronet. "Mine, I may venture to say,
is an historic name. Did you ever peruse, Miss Danvers, a work entitled 'The History of the
County of Huntingdon?' You would find in it many curious particulars relating to the Beaumantles,
and one anecdote especially, drawn, I may say, from the archives of our family, which throws
a new light upon the reign and character of Charles II. It is a very able performance is this
'History of the County of Huntingdon;' it is written by a modest and ingenious person of my
acquaintance, and I felt great pleasure in lending him my poor assistance in the compilation
of it. My name is mentioned in the preface. Perhaps," he added with a significant smile, "it
might have claimed a still more conspicuous place; but I hold it more becoming in persons of
rank to be the patrons than the competitors of men of letters."

"I should think," said Miss Danvers very quietly, "it were the more prudent plan for them to
adopt. But what is this anecdote you allude to?"

"An ancestor of mine--But I am afraid," said the baronet, casting a deprecatory look at Miss
Sherwood, "that some here have read it, or heard me repeat it before."

"Oh, pray proceed," said the young lady appealed to.

"An ancestor of mine," resumed the baronet, "on being presented at the Court of Charles II.,
soon after the Restoration, attracted the attention of that merry monarch and his witty courtiers,
by the antique fashion of his cloak. 'Beaumantle! Beaumantle!' said the king, 'who gave thee
that name?' My ancestor, who was a grave man, and well brought up, answered, 'Sire, my godfathers
and my godmothers at my baptism.' 'Well responded!' said the king with a smile; 'and they gave
thee thy raiment also, as it seems.' These last words were added in a lower voice, and did
not reach the ear of my ancestor, but they were reported to him immediately afterwards, and
have been treasured up in our family ever since. I thought it my duty to make it known to the
world as an historical fact, strikingly illustrative of a very important period in our annals."

"Why, your name," said Miss Danvers, "appears to be historical in more senses than one."

"I hope soon--but I would not wish this to go beyond the present company," said Sir Frederic,
and he looked round the circle with a countenance of the most imposing solemnity--"I hope soon
that you will hear of it being elevated to the peerage--that is, when Sir Robert Peel comes
into power."

"You know Sir Robert, then?" said Griffith, with perfect simplicity.

"Public men," said Sir Frederic, "are sufficiently introduced by public report. Besides, Mr
Griffith--we baronets!--we constitute a sort of brotherhood. I have employed all my influence
in the county, and I may safely say it is not little, to raise the character and estimation
of Sir Robert, and I have no doubt that he will gladly testify his acknowledgment of my services
by this trifling return. And as it is well known that my estates"--

But the baronet was interrupted in mid career by the announcement of dinner.

Miss Sherwood took the arm of Captain Garland, and directed Sir Frederic to lead down Miss Danvers.

"You will excuse my father," she said, as they descended, "for not meeting us in the drawing-room.
His gout makes him a lame pedestrian. We shall find him already seated at the table."

At the dinner-table the same arrangement was preserved. Miss Sherwood had placed Captain Garland
by her side, and conversed almost exclusively with him; while the Baronet was kept in play
by the sedulous flattery of Miss Danvers.

After a few days, it became evident to all the household at Lipscombe Park that a new claimant
for the hand of Miss Sherwood had appeared in the person of Captain Garland. The captain did
not reside in the house, but, on the pretence of a very strong passion for trout-fishing, he
had taken up his quarters in apartments within a most convenient distance of the scene of operations.
It was not forgotten that, at the very time he made his appearance, Miss Danvers also arrived
at the Park, and between these parties there was suspected to be some secret understanding.
It seemed as if our military suitor had resolved to assail the fort from within as well as
from without, and therefore had brought down with him this fair ally. Nothing better than such
a fair ally. She could not only chant his praises when absent, (and there is much in that,)
but she could so manoeuvre as to procure for the captain many a tête-à-tête, which otherwise
would not fall to his share. Especially, (and this task she appeared to accomplish most adroitly,)
she could engage to herself the attentions of his professed and redoubtable rival, Sir Frederic
Beaumantle. In fifty ways she could assist in betraying the citadel from within, whilst he
stood storming at the gates, in open and most magnanimous warfare. Darcy was not slower than
others to suspect the stratagem, and he thought he saw symptoms of its success. His friend
Griffith had now left him; he had no dispassionate observer to consult, and his own desponding
passion led him to conclude whatever was most unfavourable to himself. Certainly there was
a confidential manner between Miss Sherwood and these close allies, which seemed to justify
the suspicion alluded to. More than once, when he had joined Miss Sherwood and the captain,
the unpleasant discovery had been forced upon him, by the sudden pause in their conversation,
that he was the one too many.

But jealousy? Oh, no! What had he to do with jealousy? For his part, he was quite delighted
with this new attachment--quite delighted; it would set at rest for ever the painful controversy
so often agitated in his own breast. Nevertheless, it must be confessed that he felt the rivalry
of Captain Garland in a very different manner from that of Sir Frederic Beaumantle. The baronet,
by virtue of his wealth alone, would obtain success; and he felt a sort of bitter satisfaction
in yielding Emily to her opulent suitor. She might marry, but she could not love him; she might
be thinking of another, perhaps of her cousin Reginald, even while she gave her hand to him
at the altar. But if the gallant captain, whose handsome person, and frank and gentlemanly
manners, formed his chief recommendation, were to be the happy man, then must her affections
have been won, and Emily was lost to him utterly. And then--with the usual logic of the passions,
and forgetting the part of silence and disguise that he had played--he taxed her with levity
and unkindness in so soon preferring the captain to himself. That Emily should so soon have
linked herself with a comparative stranger! It was not what he should have expected. "At all
events," he would thus conclude his soliloquy, "I am henceforward free--free from her bondage
and from all internal struggle. Yes! I am free!" he exclaimed, as he paced his room triumphantly.
The light voice of Emily was heard calling on him to accompany her in a walk. He started, he
flew. His freedom, we suppose, gave him wings, for he was at her side in a moment.

Reginald had intended, on the first opportunity, to rally his cousin upon her sudden attachment
to the captain, but his tongue absolutely refused the office. He could not utter a word of
banter on the subject. His heart was too full.

On this occasion, as they returned from their walk through the park, there happened one of
those incidents which have so often, at least in novels and story-books, brought about the
happiness of lovers, but which in the present instance served only to bring into play the most
painful feelings of both parties.

A prize-fight had taken place in the neighbourhood, and one of the numerous visitors of that
truly noble exhibition, who, in order to do honour to the day, had deprived Smithfield market
of the light of his countenance, was returning across the park from the scene of combat, accompanied
by his bull-dog. The dog, who doubtless knew that his master was a trespasser, and considered
it the better policy to assume at once the offensive, flew at the party whom he saw approaching.
Emily was a little in advance. Darcy rushed forward to plant himself between her and this ferocious
assailant. He had no weapon of defence of any kind, and, to say truth, he had at that moment
no idea of defending himself, or any distinct notion whatever of combating his antagonist.
The only reflection that occurred to his mind was, that if the animal satiated its fury upon
him, his companion would be safe. A strong leg and a stout boot might have done something;
Darcy, stooping down, put the fleshy part of his own arm fairly into the bulldog's jaws; assured
that, at all events, it could not bite two persons at the same time, and that, if its teeth
were buried in his own arm, they could not be engaged in lacerating Emily Sherwood. It is the
well-known nature of the bull-dog to fasten where it once bites, and the brute pinned Darcy
to the ground, until its owner, arriving on the spot, extricated him from his very painful
position.

In this encounter, our senior wrangler probably showed himself very unskilful and deficient
in the combat with wild beasts, but no conduct could have displayed a more engrossing anxiety
for the safety of his fair companion. Most men would have been willing to reap advantage from
the grateful sentiment which such a conduct must inspire; Darcy, on the contrary, seemed to
have no other wish than to disclaim all title to such a sentiment. He would not endure that
the incident should be spoken of with the least gravity or seriousness.

"I pray you," said he, "do not mention this silly business again. What I did, every living
man who had found himself by your side would have done, and most men in a far more dexterous
manner. And, indeed, if instead of yourself, the merest stranger--the poorest creature in the
parish, man, woman, or child, had been in your predicament, I think I should have done the same."

"I know you would, Reginald. I believe," said Emily, "that if the merest idiot had been threatened
with the danger that threatened me, you would have interposed, and received the attack yourself.
And it is because I believe this of you, Reginald"----

Something apparently impeded her utterance, for the sentence was left unfinished.

"For this wound," resumed Darcy, after a pause, and observing that Emily's eye was resting
on his arm, "it is really nothing more than a just penalty for my own want of address in this
notable combat. You should have had the captain with you," he added; "he would have defended
you quite as zealously, and with ten times the skill."

Emily made no answer; and they walked on in silence till they entered the Hall. Reginald felt
that he had been ungracious; but he knew not how to retrieve his position. Just before they
parted, Emily resuming, in some measure, her natural and cheerful manner, turned to her companion,
and said--"Years ago, when you were cousin Reginald, and condescended to be my playfellow,
the greatest services you rendered were to throw me occasionally out of the swing, or frighten
me till I screamed by putting my pony into a most unmerciful trot; but you were always so kind
in the making up, that I liked you the better afterwards. Now, when you preserve me, at your
own hazard, from a very serious injury--you do it in so surly a manner--I wish the dog had
bitten me!" And with this she left him and tripped up stairs.

If Darcy could have followed her into her own room, he would have seen her throw herself into
an armchair, and burst into a flood of tears.

CHAPTER III.

Miss Danvers, it has been said, (from whatever motive her conduct proceeded, whether from any
interest of her own, or merely a desire to serve the interest of her friend, Captain Garland,)
showed a disposition to engross the attentions of Sir Frederic Beaumantle as often as he made
his appearance at Lipscombe Park. Now, as that lady was undoubtedly of good family, and possessed
of considerable fortune, the baronet was not a little flattered by the interest which a person
who had these excellent qualifications for a judge, manifestly took in his conversation. In
an equal degree was his dignity offended at the preference shown by Miss Sherwood for Captain
Garland, a man, as he said, but of yesterday, and not in any one point of view to be put in
comparison with himself. He almost resolved to punish her levity by withdrawing his suit. The
graver manner, and somewhat more mature age of Miss Danvers were also qualities which he was
obliged to confess were somewhat in her favour.

The result of all this was, that one fine morning Sir Frederic Beaumantle might have been seen
walking to and fro in his own park, with a troubled step, bearing in his hand a letter--most
elaborately penned--carefully written out--sealed--but not directed. It was an explicit declaration
of his love, a solemn offer of his hand; it was only not quite determined to whom it should
be sent. As the letter contained very little that referred to the lady, and consisted almost
entirely of an account, not at all disparaging, of himself and his own good qualities, it was
easy for him to proceed thus far upon his delicate negotiation, although the main question--to
whom the letter was to be addressed--was not yet decided. This letter had indeed been a labour
of love. It was as little written for Miss Sherwood as for Miss Danvers. It was composed for
the occasion whenever that might arise; and for these ten years past it had been lying in his
desk, receiving from time to time fresh touches and emendations. The necessity of making use
of this epistle, which had now attained a state of painful perfection, we venture to say had
some share in impelling him into matrimony. To some one it must be sent, or how could it appear
to any advantage in those "Memoirs of Sir Frederic Beaumantle," which, some future day, were
to console the world for his decease, and the prospect of which (for he saw them already in
beautiful hot-pressed quarto) almost consoled himself for the necessity of dying? The intended
love-letter!--this would have an air of ridicule, while the real declaration of Sir Frederic
Beaumantle, which would not only adorn the Memoirs above mentioned, but would ultimately form
a part of the "History of the County of Huntingdon." We hope ourselves, by the way, to have
the honour of editing those Memoirs, should we be so unfortunate as to survive Sir Frederic.

But we must leave our baronet with his letter in his hand, gazing profoundly and anxiously
on the blank left for the superscription, and must follow the perplexities of Reginald Darcy.

That good understanding which apparently existed between Emily and Captain Garland seemed rather
to increase than to diminish after the little adventure we recorded in the last chapter. It
appeared that Miss Sherwood had taken Darcy at his word, and resolved not to think any the
more kindly of him for his conduct on that occasion. The captain was plainly in the ascendant.
It even appeared, from certain arrangements that were in stealthy preparation, that the happiness
of the gallant lover would not long be delayed. Messages of a very suspicious purport had passed
between the Park and the vicarage. The clerk of the parish had been seen several times at Lipscombe.
There was something in the wind, as the sagacious housekeeper observed; surely her young missus
was not going to be married on the sly to the captain! The same thought, however, occurred
to Darcy. Was it to escape the suit of Sir Frederic Beaumantle, which had been in some measure
countenanced by her father, that she had recourse to this stratagem?--hardly worthy of her,
and quite unnecessary, as she possessed sufficient influence with her father to obtain his
consent to any proposal she herself was likely to approve. Had not the state of his own feelings
made him too interested a party to act as counsellor or mediator, he would at once have questioned
Emily on the subject. As it was, his lips were closed. She herself, too, seemed resolved to
make no communication to him. The captain, a man of frank and open nature, was far more disposed
to reveal his secret: he was once on the point of speaking to Darcy about his "approaching
marriage;" but Emily, laying her finger on her lip, suddenly imposed silence on him.

One morning, as Darcy entered the breakfast-room, it was evident that something unusual was
about to take place. The carriage, at this early hour, was drawn up to the door, and the two
young ladies, both dressed in bridal white, were stepping into it. Before it drove off Miss
Sherwood beckoned to Darcy.

"I have not invited you," she said, "to the ceremony, because Captain Garland has wished it
to be as private as possible. But we shall expect your company at breakfast, for which you
must even have the patience to wait till we return." Without giving any opportunity for reply,
she drew up the glass, and the carriage rolled off.

However Darcy might have hitherto borne himself up by a gloomy sense of duty, by pride, and
a bitter--oh, what bitter resignation!--when the blow came, it utterly prostrated him. "She
is gone!--lost!--Fool that I have been!--What was this man more than I?" Stung with such reflections
as these, which were uttered in such broken sentences, he rapidly retreated to the library,
where he knew he should be undisturbed. He threw himself into a chair, and planting his elbows
on the table, pressed his doubled fists, with convulsive agony, to his brows. All his fortitude
had forsaken him: he wept outright.

From this posture he was at length aroused by a gentle pressure on his shoulder, and a voice
calling him by his name. He raised his head: it was Emily Sherwood, enquiring of him, quite
calmly, why he was not at the breakfast-table. There she stood, radiant with beauty, and in
all her bridal attire, except that she had thrown of her bonnet, and her beautiful hair was
allowed to be free and unconfined. Her hand was still upon his shoulder.

"You are married, Emily," he said, as well as that horrible stifling sensation in the breast
would let him speak; "you are married, and I must be for evermore a banished man. I leave you,
Emily, and this roof, for ever. I pronounce my own sentence of exile, for I love you, Emily!--and
ever shall--passionately--tenderly--love you. Surely I may say this now--now that it is a mere
cry of anguish, and a misery exclusively my own. Never, never--I feel that this is no idle
raving--shall I love another--never will this affection leave me--I shall never have a home--never
care for another--or myself--I am alone--a wanderer--miserable. Farewell! I go--I know not
exactly where--but I leave this place."

He was preparing to quit the room, when Emily, placing herself before him, prevented him. "And
why," said she, "if you honoured me with this affection, why was I not to know of it till now?"

"Can the heiress of Lipscombe Park ask that question?"

"Ungenerous! unjust!" said Emily. "Tell me, if one who can himself feel and act nobly, denies
to another the capability of a like disinterested conduct--denies it rashly, pertinaciously,
without cause given for such a judgment--is he not ungenerous and unjust?"

"To whom have I acted thus? To whom have I been ungenerous or unjust?"

"To me, Reginald--to me! I am wealthy, and for this reason alone you have denied to me, it
seems, the possession of every worthy sentiment. She has gold, you have said, let her gold
content her, and you withheld your love. She will make much boast, and create a burdensome
obligation, if she bestows her superfluous wealth upon another: you resolved not to give her
the opportunity, and you withheld your love. She has gold--she has no heart--no old affections
that have grown from childhood--no estimate of character: she has wealth--let her gratify its
vanity and its caprice; and so you withheld your love. Yes, she has gold--let her have more
of it--let her wed with gold--with any gilded fool--she has no need of love! This is what you
have thought, what your conduct has implied, and it was ungenerous and unjust."

"No, by heaven! I never thought unworthily of you," exclaimed Darcy.

"Had you been the wealthy cousin, Reginald, of wealth so ample, that an addition to it could
scarcely bring an additional pleasure, would you have left your old friend Emily to look out
for some opulent alliance?"

"Oh, no! no!"

"Then, why should I?"

"I may have erred," said Darcy. "I may have thought too meanly of myself, or nourished a misplaced
pride, but I never had a disparaging thought of you. It seemed that I was right--that I was
fulfilling a severe--oh, how severe a duty! Even now I know not that I was wrong--I know only
that I am miserable. But," added he in a calmer voice, "I, at all events, am the only sufferer.
You, at least, are happy."

"Not, I think, if marriage is to make me so. I am not married, Reginald," she said, amidst
a confusion of smiles and blushes. "Captain Garland was married this morning to Miss Julia
Danvers, to whom he has been long engaged, but a silly selfish stepmother"----

"Not married!" cried Darcy, interrupting all further explanation.--"Not married! Then you are
free--then you are"----But the old train of thought rushed back upon his mind--the old objections
were as strong as ever--Miss Sherwood was still the daughter of his guardian, and the heiress
of Lipscombe Park. Instead of completing the sentence, he paused, and muttered something about
"her father."

Emily saw the cloud that had come over him. Dropping playfully, and most gracefully, upon one
knee, she took his hand, and looking up archly in his face, said, "You love me, coz--you have
said it. Coz, will you marry me?--for I love you."

"Generous, generous girl!" and he clasped her to his bosom.

"Let us go in," said Emily, in a quite altered and tremulous voice, "let us join them in the
other room." And as she put her arm in his, the little pressure said distinctly and triumphantly--"He
is mine!--he is mine!"

       *       *       *       *       *

We must take a parting glance into old Mr Sherwood's room. He is seated in his gouty chair;
his daughter stands by his side. Apparently Emily's reasonings have almost prevailed; she has
almost persuaded the old gentleman that Darcy is the very son-in-law whom, above all others,
he ought to desire. For how could Emily leave her dear father, and how could he domicile himself
with any other husband she could choose, half so well as with his own ward, and his old favourite,
Reginald?

"But Sir Frederic Beaumantle," the old gentleman replied, "what is to be said to him? and what
a fine property he has!"

As he was speaking, the door opened, and the party from the breakfast table, consisting of
Captain Garland, and his bride, and Reginald, entered the room.

"Oh, as for Sir Frederic Beaumantle," said she who was formerly Miss Danvers, and now Mrs Garland,
"I claim him as mine." And forthwith she displayed the famous declaration of the baronet--addressed
to herself!

Their mirth had scarcely subsided, when the writer of the letter himself made his appearance.
He had called early, for he had concluded, after much deliberation, that it was not consistent
with the ardour and impetuosity of love, to wait till the formal hour of visiting, in order
to receive the answer of Miss Danvers.

That answer the lady at once gave by presenting Captain Garland to him in the character of
her husband. At the same time, she returned his epistle, and, explaining that circumstances
had compelled the captain and herself to marry in a private and secret manner, apologized for
the mistake into which the concealment of their engagement had led him.

"A mistake indeed--a mistake altogether!" exclaimed the baronet, catching at a straw as he
fell--"a mistake into which this absurd fashion of envelopes has led us. The letter was never
intended, madam, to be enclosed to you. It was designed for the hands"----

And he turned to Miss Sherwood, who, on her part, took the arm of Reginald with a significance
of manner which proved to him that, for the present at least, his declaration of love might
return into his own desk, there to receive still further emendations.

"No wonder, Sir Frederic," said Mr Sherwood, compassionating the baronet's situation--"no wonder
your proposal is not wanted. These young ladies have taken their affairs into their own hands.
It is Leap-Year. One of them, at least, (looking to his daughter,) has made good use of its
privilege. The initiative, Sir Frederic, is taken from us."

The baronet had nothing left but to make his politest bow and retire.

"Reginald, my dear boy," continued the old gentleman, "give me your hand. Emily is right. I
don't know how I should part with her. I will only make this bargain with you, Reginald--that
you marry us both. You must not turn me out of doors."

Reginald returned the pressure of his hand, but he could say nothing. Mr Sherwood, however,
saw his answer in eyes that were filling involuntarily with tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BATTLE OF THE BLOCKS.

THE PAVING QUESTION.

The subject of greatest metropolitan interest which has occurred for many years, is the introduction
of wood paving. As the main battle has been fought in London, and nothing but a confused report
of the great object in dispute may have penetrated beyond the sound of Bow bells, we think
it will not be amiss to put on record, in the imperishable brass and marble of our pages, an
account of the mighty struggle--of the doughty champions who couched the lance and drew the
sword in the opposing ranks--and, finally, to what side victory seems to incline on this beautiful
1st of May in the year 1843.

Come, then, to our aid, oh ye heavenly Muses! who enabled Homer to sing in such persuasive
words the fates of Troy and of its wooden horse; for surely a subject which is so deeply connected
both with wood and horses, is not beneath your notice; but perhaps, as poetry is gone out of
fashion at the present time, you will depute one of your humbler sisters, rejoicing in the
name of Prose, to give us a few hints in the composition of our great history. The name of
the first pavier, we fear, is unknown, unless we could identify him with Triptolemus, who was
a great improver of Rhodes; but it is the fate of all the greatest benefactors of their kind
to be neglected, and in time forgotten. The first regularly defined paths were probably footways--the
first carriages broad-wheeled. No record remains of what materials were used for filling up
the ruts; so it is likely, in those simple times when enclosure acts were unknown, that the
cart was seldom taken in the same track. As houses were built, and something in the shape of
streets began to be established, the access to them must have been more attended to. A mere
smoothing of the inequalities of the surface over which the oxen had to be driven, that brought
the grain home on the enormous plaustra of the husbandman, was the first idea of a street,
whose very name is derived from stratum, levelled. As experience advanced, steps would be taken
to prevent the softness of the road from interrupting the draught. A narrow rim of stone, just
wide enough to sustain the wheel, would, in all probability, be the next improvement; and only
when the gentle operations of the farm were exchanged for war, and the charger had to be hurried
to the fight, with all the equipments necessary for an army, great roads were laid open, and
covered with hard materials to sustain the wear and tear of men and animals. Roads were found
to be no less necessary to retain a conquest than to make it; and the first true proof of the
greatness of Rome was found in the long lines of military ways, by which she maintained her
hold upon the provinces. You may depend on it, that no expense was spared in keeping the glorious
street that led up her Triumphs to the Capitol in excellent repair. All the nations of the
Orbis Antiquus ought to have trembled when they saw the beginning of the Appian road. It led
to Britain and Persia, to Carthage and the White Sea. The Britons, however, in ancient days,
seem to have been about the stupidest and least enterprising of all the savages hitherto discovered.
After an intercourse of four hundred years with the most polished people in the world, they
continued so miserably benighted, that they had not even acquired masonic knowledge enough
to repair a wall. The rampart raised by their Roman protectors between them and the Picts and
Scots, became in some places dilapidated. The unfortunate natives had no idea how to mend the
breach, and had to send once more for their auxiliaries. If such their state in regard to masonry,
we cannot suppose that their skill in road-making was very great; and yet we are told that,
even on Cæsar's invasion, the Britons careered about in war-chariots, which implies both good
roads and some mechanical skill; but we think it a little too much in historians to ask us
to believe BOTH these views of the condition of our predecessors in the tight little island;
for it is quite clear that a people who had arrived at the art of coach-making, could not be
so very ignorant as not to know how to build a wall. If it were not for the letters of Cicero,
we should not believe a syllable about the war-chariots that carried amazement into the hearts
of the Romans, even in Kent or Surrey. But we here boldly declare, that if twenty Ciceros were
to make their affidavits to the fact of a set of outer barbarians, like Galgacus and his troops,
"sweeping their fiery lines on rattling wheels" up and down the Grampians--where, at a later
period, a celebrated shepherd fed his flocks--we should not believe a word of their declaration.
Tacitus, in the same manner, we should prosecute for perjury.

The Saxons were a superior race, and when the eightsome-reel of the heptarchy became the pas-seul
of the kingdom of England, we doubt not that Watling Street was kept in passable condition,
and that Alfred, amidst his other noble institutions, invented a highway rate. The fortresses
and vassal towns of the barons, after the Conquest, must have covered the country with tolerable
cross-roads; and even the petty wars of those steel-clad marauders must have had a good effect
in opening new communications. For how could Sir Reginald Front-de-Boeuf, or Sir Hildebrand
Bras-de-Fer, carry off the booty of their discomfited rival to their own granaries without
loaded tumbrils, and roads fit to pass over?

Nor would it have been wise in rich abbots and fat monks to leave their monasteries and abbeys
inaccessible to pious pilgrims, who came to admire thigh-bones of martyred virgins and skulls
of beatified saints, and paid very handsomely for the exhibition. Finally, trade began, and
paviers flourished. The first persons of that illustrious profession appear, from the sound
of the name, to have been French, unless we take the derivation of a cockney friend of ours,
who maintains that the origin of the word is not the French pavé, but the indigenous English
pathway. However that may be, we are pretty sure that paving was known as one of the fine arts
in the reign of Queen Elizabeth; for, not to mention the anecdote of Raleigh and his cloak--which
could only happen where puddles formed the exception and not the rule--we read of Essex's horse
stumbling on a paving-stone in his mad ride to his house in the Strand. We also prove, from
Shakspeare's line--

    "The very stones would rise in mutiny"--

the fact of stones forming the main body of the streets in his time; for it is absurd to suppose
that he was so rigid an observer of the unities as to pay the slightest respect to the state
of paving in the time of Julius Cæsar at Rome.

Gradually London took the lead in improving its ways. It was no longer necessary for the fair
and young to be carried through the mud upon costly pillions, on the backs of high-stepping
Flanders mares. Beauty rolled over the stones in four-wheeled carriages, and it did not need
more than half-a-dozen running footmen--the stoutest that could be found--to put their shoulders
occasionally to the wheel, and help the eight black horses to drag the ponderous vehicle through
the heavier parts of the road. Science came to the aid of beauty in these distressing circumstances.
Springs were invented that yielded to every jolt; and, with the aid of cushions, rendered a
visit to Highgate not much more fatiguing than we now find the journey to Edinburgh. Luxury
went on--wealth flowed in--paviers were encouraged--coach-makers grew great men--and London,
which our ancestors had left mud, was now stone. Year after year the granite quarries of Aberdeen
poured themselves out on the streets of the great city, and a million and a half of people
drove, and rode, and bustled, and bargained, and cheated, and throve, in the midst of a din
that would have silenced the artillery of Trafalgar, and a mud which, if turned into bricks,
would have built the tower of Babel. The citizens were now in possession of the "fumum et opes
strepitumque Romæ;" but some of the more quietly disposed, though submitting patiently to the
"fumum," and by no means displeased with the "opes," thought the "strepitumque" could be dispensed
with, and plans of all kinds were proposed for obviating the noise and other inconveniences
of granite blocks. Some proposed straw, rushes, sawdust; ingenuity was at a stand-still; and
London appeared to be condemned to a perpetual atmosphere of smoke and sound. It is pleasant
to look back on difficulties, when overcome--the best illustration of which is Columbus's egg;
for, after convincing the sceptic, there can be no manner of doubt that he swallowed the yelk
and white, leaving the shell to the pugnacious disputant. In the same way we look with a pleasing
kind of pity on the quandaries of those whom we shall call--with no belief whatever in the
pre-Adamite theory--the pre-Macadamites.

A man of talent and enterprise, Mr Macadam, proposed a means of getting quit of one of the
objections to the granite causeways. By breaking them up into small pieces, and spreading them
in sufficient quantity, he proved that a continuous hard surface would be formed, by which
the uneasy jerks from stone to stone would be avoided, and the expense, if not diminished,
at all events not materially increased. When the proposition was fairly brought before the
public, it met the fate of all innovations. Timid people--the very persons, by the by, who
had been the loudest in their exclamations against the ancient causeways--became alarmed the
moment they saw a chance of getting quit of them. As we never know the value of a thing till
we have lost it, their attachment to stone and noise became more intense in proportion as the
certainty of being deprived of them became greater. It was proved to the satisfaction of all
rational men, if Mr Macadam's experiment succeeded, and a level surface were furnished to the
streets, that, besides noise, many other disadvantages of the rougher mode of paving would
be avoided. Among these the most prominent was slipperiness; and it was impossible to be denied,
that at many seasons of the year, not only in frost, when every terrestrial pathway must be
unsafe; but in the dry months of summer, the smooth surfaces of the blocks of granite, polished
and rounded by so many wheels, were each like a convex mass of ice, and caused unnumbered falls
to the less adroit of the equestrian portion of the king's subjects. One of the most zealous
advocates of the improvement was the present Sir Peter Laurie, not then elevated to a seat
among the Equites, but imbued probably with a foreknowledge of his knighthood, and therefore
anxious for the safety of his horse. Sir Peter was determined, in all senses of the word, to
leave no stone unturned; and a very small mind, when directed to one object with all its force,
has more effect than a large mind unactuated by the same zeal--as a needle takes a sharper
point than a sword. Thanks, therefore, are due, in a great measure, to the activity and eloquence
of the worthy alderman for the introduction of Macadam's system of road-making into the city.

Many evils were certainly got rid of by this alteration--the jolting motion from stone to stone--the
slipperiness and unevenness of the road--and the chance, in case of an accident, of contesting
the hardness of your skull with a mass of stone, which seemed as if it were made on purpose
for knocking out people's brains. For some time contentment sat smiling over the city. But,
as "man never is, but always to be, blest," perfect happiness appeared not to be secured even
by Macadam. Ruts began to be formed--rain fell, and mud was generated at a prodigious rate;
repairs were needed, and the road for a while was rough and almost impassable. Then it was
found out that the change had only led to a different kind of noise, instead of destroying
it altogether; and the perpetual grinding of wheels, sawing their way through the loose stones
at the top, or ploughing through the wet foundation, was hardly an improvement on the music
arising from the jolts and jerks along the causeway. Men's minds got confused in the immensity
of the uproar, and deafness became epidemic. In winter, the surface of Macadam formed a series
of little lakes, resembling on a small scale those of Canada; in summer, it formed a Sahara
of dust, prodigiously like the great desert. Acres of the finest alluvial clay floated past
the shops in autumn; in spring, clouds of the finest sand were wafted among the goods, and
penetrated to every drawer and wareroom. And high over all, throughout all the main highways
of commerce--the Strand--Fleet Street--Oxford Street--Holborn--raged a storm of sound, that
made conversation a matter of extreme difficulty without such stentorian an effort as no ordinary
lungs could make. As the inhabitants of Abdera went about sighing from morning to night, "Love!
love!" so the persecuted dwellers in the great thoroughfares wished incessantly for cleanliness!
smoothness! silence!

"Abra was present when they named her name," and, after a few gropings after truth--a few experiments
that ended in nothing--a voice was heard in the city, that streets could be paved with wood.
This was by no means a discovery in itself; for in many parts of the country ingenious individuals
had laid down wooden floors upon their farm-yards; and, in other lands, it was a very common
practice to use no other material for their public streets. But, in London, it was new; and
all that was wanted, was science to use the material (at first sight so little calculated to
bear the wear and tear of an enormous traffic) in the most eligible manner. The first who commenced
an actual piece of paving was a Mr Skead--a perfectly simple and inartificial system, which
it was soon seen was doomed to be superseded. His blocks were nothing but pieces of wood of
a hexagon shape--with no cohesion, and no foundation--so that they trusted each to its own
resources to resist the pressure of a wheel, or the blow of a horse's hoof; and, as might have
been foreseen, they became very uneven after a short use, and had no recommendation except
their cheapness and their exemption from noise. The fibre was vertical, and at first no grooves
were introduced; they, of course, became rounded by wearing away at the edge, and as slippery
as the ancient granite. The Metropolitan Company took warning from the defects of their predecessor,
and adopted the patent of a scientific French gentleman of the name of De Lisle. The combination
of the blocks is as elaborate as the structure of a ship of war, and yet perfectly easy, being
founded on correct mechanical principles, and attaining the great objects required--viz. smoothness,
durability, and quiet. The blocks, which are shaped at such an angle that they give the most
perfect mutual support, are joined to each other by oaken dowels, and laid on a hard concrete
foundation, presenting a level surface, over which the impact is so equally divided, that the
whole mass resists the pressure on each particular block; and yet, from being formed in panels
of about a yard square, they are laid down or lifted up with far greater ease than the causeway.
Attention was immediately attracted to this invention, and all efforts have hitherto been vain
to improve on it. Various projectors have appeared--some with concrete foundations, some with
the blocks attached to each other, not by oak dowels, but by being alternately concave and
convex at the side; but this system has the incurable defect of wearing off at the edges, where
the fibre of the wood, of course, is weakest, and presents a succession of bald-pated surfaces,
extremely slippery, and incapable of being permanently grooved. A specimen of this will be
often referred to in the course of this account, being that which has attained such an unenviable
degree of notoriety in the Poultry. Other inventors have shown ingenuity and perseverance;
but the great representative of wooden paving we take to be the Metropolitan Company, and we
proceed to a narrative of the attacks it has sustained, and the struggles it has gone through.

So long ago as July 1839, the inventor explained to a large public meeting of noblemen and
men of science, presided over by the Duke of Sussex, the principle of his discovery. It consisted
in a division of the cube, or, as he called it, the stereotomy of the cube. After observing,
that "although the cube was the most regular of all solid bodies, and the most learned men
amongst the Greeks and other nations had occupied themselves to ascertain and measure its proportions,
he said it had never hitherto been regarded as a body, to be anatomized or explored in its
internal parts. Some years ago, it had occurred to a French mathematician that the cube was
divisible into six pyramidical forms; and it therefore had struck him, the inventor, that the
natural formation of that figure was by a combination of those forms. Having detailed to his
audience a number of experiments, and shown how the results thereby obtained accorded with
mathematical principles, he proceeded to explain the various purposes to which diagonal portions
of the cube might be applied. By cutting the body in half, and then dividing the half in a
diagonal direction, he obtained a figure--namely, a quarter of the cube--in which, he observed,
the whole strength or power of resistance of the entire body resided; and he showed the application
of these sections of the cube to the purposes of paving by wood." Such is the first meagre
report of the broaching of a scientific system of paving; and, with the patronage of such men
of rank and eminence as took an interest in the subject, the progress was sure and rapid.

In December 1839, about 1100 square yards were laid down in Whitehall, and a triumph was never
more complete; for since that period it has continued as smooth and level as when first it
displaced the Macadam; it has never required repair, and has been a small basis of peace and
quietness, amidst a desert of confusion and turmoil. Since that time, about sixty thousand
yards in various parts of London, being about three-fourths of all the pavement hitherto introduced,
attest the public appreciation of the Metropolitan Company's system. It may be interesting
to those who watch the progress of great changes, to particularize the operations (amounting
in the aggregate to forty thousand yards) that were carried out upon this system in 1842:--

    St Giles's, Holborn
    Foundling Estate
    Hammersmith Bridge
    St Andrew's, Holborn
    Jermyn Street
    Old Bailey
    Piccadilly
    Newgate Street, eastern end
    Southampton Street
    Lombard Street
    Oxford Street
    Regent Street;

besides several noblemen's court-yards, such as the Dukes of Somerset and Sutherland's, and
a great number of stables, for which it is found peculiarly adapted.

The other projectors have specimens principally in the Strand; that near the Golden Cross,
being by Mr Skead; that near Coutts's Bank, Mr Saunders; at St Giles's Church, in Holborn,
Mr Rankin; and in the city, at Gracechurch Street, Cornhill, and the Poultry, Mr Cary. The
Poultry is a short space lying between Cheapside and the Mansion-house, consisting altogether
of only 378 square yards. It lies in a hollow, as if on purpose to receive the river of mud
which rolls its majestic course from the causeway on each side. The traffic on it, though not
fast, is perpetual, and the system from the first was faulty. In addition to these drawbacks,
its cleansing was totally neglected; and on all these accounts, it offered an excellent point
of attack to any person who determined to signalize himself by preaching a crusade against
wood. Preachers, thank heaven! are seldom wanted; and on this occasion the part of Peter the
Hermit was undertaken by Peter the Knight; for our old acquaintance, the opponent of causeways,
the sworn enemy to granite, the favourer of Macadam, had worn the chain of office; had had
his ears tickled for a whole year by the magic word, my lord, was as much of a knight as Sir
Amadis de Gaul, and much more of an alderman; had been a great dispenser of justice, and sometimes
a dispenser with law; had made himself a name, before which that of the Curtises and Waithmans
grew pale; and, above all, was at that very moment in want of a grievance. Sir Peter Laurie
gave notice of a motion on the subject of the Poultry. People began to think something had
gone wrong with the chickens, or that Sir Robert had laid a high duty on foreign eggs. The
alarm spread into Norfolk, and affected the price of turkeys. Bantams fell in value, and barn-door
fowls were a drug. In the midst of all these fears, it began to be whispered about, that if
any chickens were concerned in the motion, it was Cary's chickens; and that the attack, though
nominally on the hen-roost, was in reality on the wood. It was now the depth of winter; snowy
showers were succeeded by biting frosts; the very smoothness of the surface of the wooden pavement
was against it; for as no steps were taken to prevent slipperiness, by cleansing or sanding
the street--or better still, perhaps, by roughing the horses' shoes, many tumbles took place
on this doomed little portion of the road; and some of the city police, having probably, in
the present high state of English morals, little else to do, were employed to count the falls.
Armed with a list of these accidents, which grew in exact proportion to the number of people
who saw them--(for instance, if three people separately reported, "a grey horse down in the
Poultry," it did duty for three grey horses)--Sir Peter opened the business of the day, at
a meeting of the Commissioners of Sewers for the City of London, on the 14th of February 1843.
Mr Alderman Gibbs was in the chair. Sir Peter, on this occasion, transcended his usual efforts;
he was inspired with the genius of his subject, and was as great a specimen of slip-slop as
the streets themselves. He requested a petition to be read, signed by a Mr Gray, and a considerable
number of other jobmasters and livery stable-keepers, against wood pavement; and, as it formed
the text on which he spoke, we quote it entire:--

    "To the Commissioners of Sewers--

    "The humble memorial of your memorialists, humbly
    showeth,--That in consequence of the introduction of wood
    pavements into the City of London, in lieu of granite, a very
    great number of accidents have occurred; and in drawing a
    comparison between the two from observations made, it is found
    where one accident happened on the granite pavement, that ten
    at least took place upon the wood. Your memorialists therefore
    pray, that, in consequence of the wood pavement being so
    extremely dangerous to travel over, you would be pleased to
    take the matter into your serious consideration, and cause it
    to be removed; by doing which you will, in the first place, be
    removing a great and dangerous nuisance; and, secondly, you
    will be setting a beneficial and humane example to other
    metropolitan districts."

Mr Gray, in addition to the memorial, begged fully to corroborate its statements, and said
that he had himself twice been thrown out by the falling of his horse on the wood, and had
broken his shafts both times. As he did not allude to his legs and arms, we conclude they escaped
uninjured; and the only effect created by his observation, seemed to be a belief that his horse
was probably addicted to falling, and preferred the wood to the rough and hard angles of the
granite. Immediately after the reading of the stablemen's memorial, a petition was introduced
in favour of wood pavement from Cornhill, signed by all the inhabitants of that wealthy and
flourishing district, and, on the principles of fair play, we transcribe it as a pendant to
the other:--

"Your petitioners, the undersigned inhabitants of the ward of Cornhill and Birchen Lane, beg
again to bring before you their earnest request, that that part of Cornhill which is still
paved with granite, and also Birchen Lane, may now be paved with wood.

"Your petitioners are well aware that many complaints have been received of the wood paving
in the Poultry; but they beg to submit to you that no reports which have been, or which may
be made, of the accidents which have occurred on that small spot, should be considered as in
any way illustrative of the merits of the general question. From its minuteness, and its slope
at both extremities, it is constantly covered with slippery mud from the granite at each end;
and that, together with the sudden transition from one sort of paving to another, causes the
horses continually to stumble on that spot. Your petitioners therefore submit that no place
could have been selected for experiment so ill adapted to show a fair result. Since your petitioners
laid their former petition before you, they have ascertained, by careful examination and enquiry,
that in places where wood paving has been laid down continuously to a moderate extent--viz.
in Regent Street, Jermyn Street, Holborn, Oxford Street, the Strand, Coventry Street, and Lombard
Street--it has fully effected all that was expected from it; it has freed the streets from
the distracting nuisance of incessant noise, has diminished mud, increased the value of property,
and given full satisfaction to the inhabitants. Your petitioners, therefore, beg to urge upon
you most strongly a compliance with their request, which they feel assured would be a further
extension of a great public good."

In addition to the petition, Mr Fernie, who presented it, stated "that the inhabitants (whom
he represented) had satisfied themselves of the advantages of wood paving before they wished
its adoption at their own doors. That enquiries had been made of the inhabitants of streets
in the enjoyment of wood paving, and they all approved of it; and said, that nothing would
induce them to return to the old system of stone; that they were satisfied the number of accidents
had not been greater on the wood than they had been on the granite; and that they were of a
much less serious character and extent."

Sir Peter on this applied a red silk handkerchief to his nose; wound three blasts on that wild
horn, as if to inspire him for the charge; and rushed into the middle of the fight. His first
blow was aimed at Mr Prosser, the secretary of the Metropolitan Company, who had stated that
in Russia, where wooden pavements were common, a sprinkling of pitch and strong sand had prevented
the possibility of slipping. Orlando Furioso was a peaceful Quaker compared to the infuriate
Laurie. "The admission of Mr Prosser," he said, "proves that, without pitch and sand, wood
pavements are impassable;" and fearful was it to see the prodigious vigour with which the Prosser
with two s's, was pressed and assaulted by the Proser with only one. Wonder took possession
of the assemblage, at the catalogue of woes the impassioned orator had collected as the results
of this most dangerous and murderous contrivance. An old woman had been run over by an omnibus--all
owing to wood; a boy had been killed by a cab--all owing to wood; and it seemed never to have
occurred to the speaker, in his anti-silvan fury, that boy's legs are occasionally broken by
unruly cabs, and poles of omnibuses run into the backs of unsuspecting elderly gentlemen on
the roads which continue under the protecting influence of granite or Macadam. He had seen
horses fall on the wooden pavements in all directions; he had seen a troop of dragoons, in
the midst of the frost, dismount and lead their un-roughed horses across Regent Street; the
Recorder had gone round by the squares to avoid the wooden districts; one lady had ordered
her coachman to stick constantly to stone; and another, when she required to go to Regent Street,
dismissed her carriage and walked. The thanks he had received for his defence of granite were
innumberable; an omnibus would not hold the compliments that had been paid him for his efforts
against wood; and, as Lord Shaftesbury had expressed his obligations to him on the subject,
he did not doubt that if the matter came before the House of Lords, he would bestow the degree
of attention on it which his lordship bestowed on all matters of importance. Working himself
us as he drew near his peroration, he broke out into a blaze of eloquence which put the Lord
Mayor into some fear on account of the Thames, of which he is official conservator. "The thing
cannot last!" he exclaimed; "and if you don't, in less than two years from this time, say I
am a true prophet, put me on seven years' allowance." What the meaning of this latter expression
may be, we cannot divine. It seems to us no very severe punishment to be forced to receive
the allowance of seven years instead of one, the only explanation we can think of is, that
it contains some delicate allusion to the dietary of gentlemen who are supposed to be visiting
one of the colonies in New Holland, but in reality employ themselves in aquatic amusements
in Portsmouth and Plymouth harbour "for the space of seven long years"--and are not supposed
to fare in so sumptuous a manner as the aldermen of the city of London.

"The poor horses," he proceeded, "that are continually tumbling down on the wood pavement,
cannot send their representatives, but I will represent them here whenever I have the opportunity"--(a
horse laugh, as if from the orator's constituents, was excited by this sally.) "But, gentlemen,
besides the danger of this atrocious system, we ought to pay a little attention to the expense.
I maintain you have no right to make the inhabitants of those streets to which there is no
idea of extending the wood paving, pay for the ease and comfort, as it is called, of persons
residing in the larger thoroughfares, such as Newgate Street and Cheapside. But the promoters
say, 'Oh I but we will have the whole town paved with it'--(hear, hear.) What would this cost?
A friend of mine has made some calculations on this point, and he finds that, to pave the whole
town with wood, an outlay of twenty-four millions of money must be incurred!"

It was generally supposed in the meeting that the friend here alluded to was either Mr Joseph
Hume or the ingenious gentleman who furnished Lord Stanley with the statistics of the wheat-growing
districts of Tamboff. It was afterwards discovered to be a Mr Cocker Munchausen.

Twenty-four millions of money! and all to be laid out on wood! The thought was so immense that
it nearly choked the worthy orator, and he could not proceed for some time. When at last, by
a great effort, he recovered the thread of his discourse, he became pathetic about the fate
of one of the penny-post boys, (a relation--"we guess"--of the deceased H. Walker, Esq. of
the Twopenny Post,)--who had broken his leg on the wooden pavement. The authorities had ordered
the lads to avoid the wood in future. For all these reasons, Sir Peter concluded his speech
with a motion, "That the wood pavement in the Poultry is dangerous and inconvenient to the
public, and ought to be taken up and replaced with granite pavement."

The benevolent reader may have observed that the second fiddle is generally a little louder
and more sharp set than the first. On this occasion that instrument was played upon by the
worthy deputy, to the amazement of all the connoisseurs in that species of music in which he
and his leader are known to excel. From his speech it was gathered that he represented a district
which has been immortalized by the genius of the author of Tom Thumb; and in the present unfortunate
aspect of human affairs, when a comet is brandishing its tail in the heavens, and O'Connell
seems to have been deprived of his upon earth--when poverty, distress, rebellion, and wooden
pavements, are threatening the very existence of Great Britain, it is consolotary to reflect
that under the guardianship of Deputy Godson Little Britain is safe; for he is resolved to
form a cordon of granite round it, and keep it free from the contamination of Norway pines
or Scottish fir. "I have been urged by my constituents," he says, "to ask for wood pavement
in Little Britain; but I am adverse to it, as I think wood paving is calculated to produce
the greatest injury to the public.

"I have seen twenty horses down on the wood pavement together--(laughter.) I am here to state
what I have seen. I have seen horses down on the wood pavement, twenty at a time--(renewed
laughter.) I say, and with great deference, that we are in the habit of conferring favours
when we ought to withhold them. I think gentlemen ought to pause before they burden the consolidated
rate with those matters, and make the poor inhabitants of the City pay for the fancies of the
wealthy members of Cornhill and the Poultry. We ought to deal even-handed justice, and not
introduce into the City, and that at a great expense, a pavement that is dirty, stinking, and
everything that is bad."--(laughter.)

In Pope's Homer's Iliad, it is very distressing to the philanthropic mind to reflect on the
feelings that must agitate the bosom of Mr Deputy Thersites when Ajax passes by. In the British
Parliament it is a melancholy sight to see the countenance of some unfortunate orator when
Sir Robert Peel rises to reply, with a smile of awful import on his lips, and a subdued cannibal
expression of satisfaction in his eyes. Even so must it have been a harrowing spectacle to
observe the effects of the answer of Mr R.L. Jones, who rose for the purpose of moving the
previous question. He said, "I thought the worthy alderman who introduced this question would
have attempted to support himself by bringing some petitions from citizens against wood paving--(hear.)
He has not done so, and I may observe, that from not one of the wards where wood pavement has
been laid down has there been a petition to take any of the wood pavement up. What the mover
of these resolutions has done, has been to travel from one end of the town to the other, to
prove to you that wood paving is bad in principle. Has that been established?--(Cries of 'no,
no.') I venture to say they have not established any thing of the kind. All that has been done
is this--it has been shown that wood pavement, which is comparatively a recent introduction,
has not yet been brought to perfection--(hear, hear.) Now, every one knows that complaints
have always been made against every new principle, till it has been brought to perfection.
Look, for instance, at the steam-engine. How vastly different it now is, with the improvements
which science has effected, from what it was when it was first introduced to the notice of
the world! Wherever wood pavement has been laid down, it has been approved of. All who have
enjoyed the advantage of its extension, acknowledge the comfort derived from it. Sir Peter
Laurie asserts that he is continually receiving thanks for his agitation about wood paving,
and that an omnibus would not hold the compliments he receives at the West End. Now, I can
only say, that I find the contrary to be the case; and every body who meets me exclaims, 'Good
God! what can Sir Peter Laurie be thinking about, to try and get the wood paving taken up,
and stone paving substituted?' So far from thanking Sir Peter, every body is astonished at
him. The wood pavement has not been laid down nearly three years, and I say here, in the face
of the Commission, that there have not been ten blocks taken up; but had granite been put down,
I will venture to say that it would, during the same period, have been taken up six or seven
times. Your books will prove it, that the portion of granite pavement in the Poultry was taken
up six or seven times during a period of three years. When the wood paving becomes a little
slippery, go to your granite heaps which belong to this commission, or to your fine sifted
cinder heaps, and let that be strewed over the surface; that contains no earthy particles,
and will, when it becomes imbedded in the wood, form such a surface that there cannot be any
possibility be any slipperiness--(hear, hear!) Do we not pursue this course in frosty weather
even with our own stone paving? There used to be, before this plan was adopted, not a day pass
but you would in frosty weather see two, three, four, and even five or six horses down together
on the stone paving--('Oh! oh!' from Mr Deputy Godson.) My friend may cry 'oh! oh!' but I mean
to say that this assertion is not so incongruous as the statement of my friend, that he saw
twenty horses down at once on the wood pavement in Newgate Street, (laughter.) I may exclaim
with my worthy friend the deputy on my left, who lives in Newgate Street, 'When the devil did
it happen? I never heard of it.' I stand forward in support of wood paving as a great public
principle, because I believe it to be most useful and advantageous to the public; which is
proved by the fact, that the public at large are in favour of it. If we had given notice that
this court would be open to hear the opinions of the citizens of London on the subject of wood
paving, I am convinced that the number of petitions in its favour would have been so great,
that the doors would not have been sufficiently wide to have received them."

Mr Jones next turned his attention to the arithmetical statements of Sir Peter; and a better
specimen of what in the Scotch language is called a stramash, it has never been our good fortune
to meet with:--

"We have been told by the worthy knight who introduced this motion, that to pave London with
wood would cost twenty-four millions of money. Now, it so happens that, some time since, I
directed the city surveyor to obtain for me a return of the number of square yards of paving-stone
there are throughout all the streets in this city. I hold that return in my hand; and I find
there are 400,000 yards, which, at fifteen shillings per yard, would not make the cost of wood
paving come to twenty-four millions of money; no, gentlemen, nor to four millions, nor to three,
nor even to one million--why, the cost, gentlemen, dwindles down from Sir Peter's twenty-four
millions to £300,000--(hear, hear, and laughter.)

"If I go into Fore Street I find every body admiring the wood pavement. If I go on Cornhill
I find the same--and all the great bankers in Lombard Street say, 'What a delightful thing
this wood paving is! Sir Peter Laurie must be mad to endeavour to deprive us of it.' I told
them not to be alarmed, for they might depend on it the good sense of this court would not
allow so great and useful an improvement in street paving to retrograde in the manner sought
to be effected by this revolution. I shall content myself with moving the previous question"--(cheers.)

It is probable that Mr Jones, in moving the previous question, contented himself a mighty deal
more than he did Sir Peter; and the triumph of the woodites was increased when Mr Pewtress
seconded the amendment:--

"If there is any time of the year when the wood pavement is more dangerous than another, probably
the most dangerous is when the weather is of the damp, muggy, and foggy character which has
been prevailing; and when all pavements are remarkably slippery. The worthy knight has shown
great tact in choosing his time for bringing this matter before the public. We have had three
or four weeks weather of the most extraordinary description I ever remember; not frosty nor
wet, but damp and slippery; so that the granite has been found so inconvenient to horses, that
they have not been driven at the common and usual pace. And I am free to confess that, under
the peculiar state of the atmosphere to which I have alluded, the wood pavement is more affected
than the granite pavement. But in ordinary weather there is very little difference. I am satisfied
that, if the danger and inconvenience were as great as the worthy knight has represented, we
should have had applications against the pavement; but all the applications we have had on
the subject have been in favour of the extension of wood pavement."

The speaker then takes up the ground, that as wood, as a material for paving, is only recently
introduced, it is natural that vested interests should be alarmed, and that great misapprehension
should exist as to its nature and merits. On this subject he introduces an admirable illustration:--"In
the early part of my life I remember attending a lecture--when gas was first introduced--by
Mr Winson. The lecture was delivered in Pall-Mall, and the lecturer proposed to demonstrate
that the introduction of gas would be destructive of life and property. I attended that lecture,
and I never came away from a public lecture more fully convinced of any thing than I did that
he had proved his position. He produced a quantity of gas, and placed a receiver on the table.
He had with him some live birds, as well as some live mice and rabbits; and, introducing some
gas into the receiver, he put one of the animals in it. In a few minutes life was extinct,
and in this way he deprived about half a dozen of these animals of their life. 'Now, gentlemen,'
said the lecturer, 'I have proved to you that gas is destructive to life; I will now show you
that it is destructive to property.' He had a little pasteboard house, and said, 'I will suppose
that it is lighted up with gas, and from the carelessness of the servant the stopcock of the
burner has been so turned off as to allow an escape of gas, and that it has escaped and filled
the house.' Having let the gas into the card house, he introduced a light and blew it up. 'Now,'
said he, 'I think I have shown you that it is not only destructive to life and property; but
that, if it is introduced into the metropolis, it will be blown up by it.'"

We have now given a short analysis of the speeches of the proposers and seconders on each side
in this great debate; and after hearing Mr Frodsham on the opposition, and the Common Sergeant--whose
objection, however, to wood was confined to its unsuitableness at some seasons for horsemanship--granting
that a strong feeling in its favour existed among the owners and inhabitants of houses where
it has been laid down; and on the other side, Sir Chapman Marshall--a strenuous woodite--who
challenged Sir Peter Laurie to find fault with the pavement at Whitehall, "which he had no
hesitation in saying was the finest piece of paving of any description in London;" Mr King,
who gave a home thrust to Sir Peter, which it was impossible to parry--"We have heard a great
deal about humanity and post-boys; does the worthy gentleman know, that the Postmaster has
only within the last few weeks sent a petition here, begging that you would, with all possible
speed, put wood paving round the Post-office?" and various other gentlemen pro and con--a division
was taken, when Sir Peter was beaten by an immense majority.

Another meeting, of which no public notice was given, was held shortly after to further Sir
Peter's object, by sundry stable-keepers and jobmasters, under the presidency of the same Mr
Gray, whose horse had acquired the malicious habit of breaking its knees on the Poultry. As
there was no opposition, there was no debate; and as no names of the parties attending were
published, it fell dead-born, although advertised two or three times in the newspapers.

On Tuesday, the 4th of April, Sir Peter buckled on his armour once more, and led the embattled
cherubim to war, on the modified question, "That wood-paving operations be suspended in the
city for a year;" but after a repetition of the arguments on both sides, he was again defeated
by the same overwhelming majority as before.

Such is the state of wood paving as a party question among the city authorities at the present
date. The squabbles and struggles among the various projectors would form an amusing chapter
in the history of street rows--for it is seen that it is a noble prize to strive for. If the
experiment succeeds, all London will be paved with wood, and fortunes will be secured by the
successful candidates for employment. Every day some fresh claimant starts up and professes
to have remedied every defect hitherto discovered in the systems of his predecessors. Still
confidence seems unshaken in the system which has hitherto shown the best results; and since
the introduction of the very ingenious invention of Mr Whitworth of Manchester, of a cart,
which by an adaptation of wheels and pullies, and brooms and buckets, performs the work of
thirty-six street-sweepers, the perfection of the work in Regent Street has been seen to such
advantage, and the objections of slipperiness so clearly proved to arise, not from the nature
of wood, but from the want of cleansing, that even the most timid are beginning to believe
that the opposition to the further introduction of it is injudicious. Among these even Sir
Peter promises to enrol himself, if the public favour continues as strong towards it for another
year as he perceives it to be at the present time.

And now, dismissing these efforts at resisting a change which we may safely take to be at some
period or other inevitable, let us cast a cursory glance at some of the results of the general
introduction of wood pavement.

In the first place, the facility of cleansing will be greatly increased. A smooth surface,
between which and the subsoil is interposed a thick concrete--which grows as hard and impermeable
as iron--will not generate mud and filth to one-fiftieth of the extent of either granite roads
or Macadam. It is probable that if there were no importations of dirt from the wheels of carriages
coming off the stone streets, little scavengering would be needed. Certainly not more than
could be supplied by one of Whitworth's machines. And it is equally evident that if wood were
kept unpolluted by the liquid mud--into which the surface of the other causeways is converted
in the driest weather by water carts--the slipperiness would be effectually cured.

In the second place, the saving of expense in cleansing and repairing would be prodigious.
Let us take as our text a document submitted to the Marylebone Vestry in 1840, and acted on
by them in the case of Oxford Street; and remember that the expenses of cleansing were calculated
at the cost of the manual labour--a cost, we believe, reduced two thirds by the invention of
Mr Whitworth. The Report is dated 1837:--

"The cost of the last five years having been,  £16,881
The present expense for 1837, about              2,000
The required outlay                              4,000
And the cleansing for 1837                         900
                                                ------
Gives a total for six years of                 £23,781

    "Or an annual expenditure averaging £3963; so that the future
    expenses of Oxford Street, maintained as a Macadamized
    carriage-way, would be about £4000, or 2s. 4d per yard per
    annum.

    "In contrast with this extract from the parochial documents,
    the results of which must have been greatly increased within
    the last three years, the Metropolitan Wood-Paving Company, who
    have already laid down above 4000 yards in Oxford Street,
    between Wells Street and Charles Street, are understood to be
    willing to complete the entire street in the best manner for
    12s. per square yard, or about £14,000--for which they propose
    to take bonds bearing interest at the rate of four-and-a-half
    per cent per annum, whereby the parish will obtain ample time
    for ultimate payment; and further, to keep the whole in repair,
    inclusive of the cost of cleansing and watering, for one year
    gratuitously, and for twelve years following at £1900 per
    annum, being less than one-half the present outlay for these
    purposes."

Whether these were the terms finally agreed on we do not know; but we perceive by public tenders
that the streets can be paved in the best possible manner for 13s. or 12s. 6d. a yard; and
kept in repair for 6d. a yard additional. This is certainly much cheaper than Macadam, and
we should think more economical than causeways. And, besides, it has the advantage--which one
of the speakers suggested to Sir Peter Laurie--"that in case of an upset, it is far more satisfactory
to contest the relative hardness of heads with a block of wood than a mass of granite."

We can only add in conclusion, that advertisements are published by the Commissioners of Sewers
for contracts to pave with wood Cheapside, and Bishopsgate Street, and Whitechapel. Oh, Sir
Peter!--how are the mighty fallen!

       *       *       *       *       *

POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER.

NO. VIII.

FIRST PERIOD CONTINUED.

A FUNERAL FANTASIE.

    1.

    2.

      With dim, deep sunken eye,
    Crutch'd on his staff, who trembles tottering by?
    As wrung from out the shatter'd heart, one groan
      Breaks the deep hush alone!
    Crush'd by the iron Fate, he seems to gather
      All life's last strength to stagger to the bier,
    And hearken----Do those cold lips murmur "Father?"
      The sharp rain, drizzling through that place of fear,
    Pierces the bones gnaw'd fleshless by despair,
    And the heart's horror stirs the silver hair.

    3.

    Fresh bleed the fiery wounds
      Through all that agonizing heart undone--
    Still on the voiceless lips "my Father" sounds,
      And still the childless Father murmurs "Son!"
    Ice-cold--ice-cold, in that white shroud he lies--
      Thy sweet and golden dreams all vanish'd there--
    The sweet and golden name of "Father" dies
      Into thy curse,--ice-cold--ice-cold--he lies
        Dead, what thy life's delight and Eden were!

    4.

    Mild, as when, fresh from the arms of Aurora,
      When the air like Elysium is smiling above,
    Steep'd in rose-breathing odours, the darling of Flora
      Wantons over the blooms on his winglets of love.--
    So gay, o'er the meads, went his footsteps in bliss,
      The silver wave mirror'd the smile of his face;
    Delight, like a flame, kindled up at his kiss,
      And the heart of the maid was the prey of his chase.

    5.

    Boldly he sprang to the strife of the world,
      As a deer to the mountain-top carelessly springs;
    As an eagle whose plumes to the sun are unfurl'd,
      Swept his Hope round the Heaven on its limitless wings.
    Proud as a war-horse that chafes at the rein,
      That kingly exults in the storm of the brave;
    That throws to the wind the wild stream of its mane,
      Strode he forth by the prince and the slave!

    6.

    Life, like a spring-day, serene and divine,
      In the star of the morning went by as a trance;
    His murmurs he drown'd in the gold of the wine,
      And his sorrows were borne on the wave of the dance.
    Worlds lay conceal'd in the hopes of his youth,
      When once he shall ripen to manhood and fame!
    Fond Father exult!--In the germs of his youth
      What harvests are destined for Manhood and Fame!

    7.

    Not to be was that Manhood!--The death-bell is knelling
      The hinge of the death-vault creaks harsh on the ears--
    How dismal, O Death, is the place of thy dwelling!
      Not to be was that Manhood!--Flow on bitter tears!
    Go, beloved, thy path to the sun,
      Rise, world upon world, with the perfect to rest;
    Go--quaff the delight which thy spirit has won,
      And escape from our grief in the halls of the blest.

    8.

    Again (in that thought what a healing is found!)
      To meet in the Eden to which thou art fled!--
    Hark, the coffin sinks down with a dull, sullen sound,
      And the ropes rattle over the sleep of the dead.
    And we cling to each other!--O Grave, he is thine!
      The eye tells the woe that is mute to the ears--
    And we dare to resent what we grudge to resign,
      Till the heart's sinful murmur is choked in its tears.
    The dull clods swell into the sullen mound;
      Earth, one look yet upon the prey we gave!
    The Grave locks up the treasure it has found;
    Higher and higher swells the sullen mound--
      Never gives back the Grave!

       *       *       *       *       *

A GROUP IN TARTARUS.

    Hark, as hoarse murmurs of a gathering sea--
      As brooks that howling through black gorges go,
    Groans sullen, hollow, and eternally,
      One wailing Woe!
    Sharp Anguish shrinks the shadows there;
    And blasphemous Despair
    Yells its wild curse from jaws that never close;
      And ghastly eyes for ever
      Stare on the bridge of the relentless River,
    Or watch the mournful wave as year on year it flows,
      And ask each other, with parch'd lips that writhe
    Into a whisper, "When the end shall be!"
      The end?--Lo, broken in Time's hand the scythe,
    And round and round revolves Eternity!

       *       *       *       *       *

ELYSIUM.

    Past the despairing wail--
    And the bright banquets of the Elysian Vale
      Melt every care away!
    Delight, that breathes and moves for ever,
    Glides through sweet fields like some sweet river!
      Elysian life survey!
    There, fresh with youth, o'er jocund meads,
    His youngest west-winds blithely leads
      The ever-blooming May.
    Thorough gold-woven dreams goes the dance of the Hours,
    In space without bounds swell the soul and its powers,
    And Truth, with no veil, gives her face to the day,
    And joy to-day and joy to-morrow,
      But wafts the airy soul aloft;
    The very name is lost to Sorrow,
      And Pain is Rapture tuned more exquisitely soft.
    Here the Pilgrim reposes the world-weary limb,
    And forgets in the shadow, cool-breathing and dim,
      The load he shall bear never more;
    Here the Mower, his sickle at rest, by the streams,
    Lull'd with harp-strings, reviews, in the calm of his dreams,
      The fields, when the harvest is o'er.
    Here, He, whose ears drank in the battle-roar,
    Whose banners stream'd upon the startled wind
      A thunder-storm,--before whose thunder tread
    The mountains trembled,--in soft sleep reclined,
      By the sweet brook that o'er its pebbly bed
    In silver plays, and murmurs to the shore,
    Hears the stern clangour of wild spears no more!
    Here the true Spouse the lost-beloved regains,
    And on the enamell'd couch of summer-plains
      Mingles sweet kisses with the west-wind's breath.
    Here, crown'd at last--Love never knows decay,
    Living through ages its one BRIDAL DAY,
    Safe from the stroke of Death!

       *       *       *       *       *

COUNT EBERHARD, THE GRUMBLER, OF WURTEMBERG.

    Ha, ha I take heed--ha, ha! take heed,[10]
      Ye knaves both South and North!
    For many a man both bold in deed
    And wise in peace, the land to lead,
      Old Swabia has brought forth.

    Proud boasts your Edward and your Charles,
      Your Ludwig, Frederick--are!
    Yet Eberhard's worth, ye bragging carles!
    Your Ludwig, Frederick, Edward, Charles--
      A thunder-storm in war.

    And Ulrick, too, his noble son,
      Ha, ha! his might ye know;
    Old Eberhard's boast, his noble son,
    Not he the boy, ye rogues, to run,
      How stout soe'er the foe!

    The Reutling lads with envy saw
      Our glories, day by day;
    The Reutling lads shall give the law--
    The Reutling lads the sword shall draw--
      O Lord--how hot were they!

    Out Ulrick went and beat them not--
      To Eberhard back he came--
    A lowering look young Ulrick got--
    Poor lad, his eyes with tears were hot--
      He hung his head for shame.

    "Ho--ho"--thought he--"ye rogues beware,
      Nor you nor I forget--
    For by my father's beard I swear
    Your blood shall wash the blot I bear,
      And Ulrick pay you yet!"

    Soon came the hour! with steeds and men
      The battle-field was gay;
    Steel closed in steel at Duffingen--
    And joyous was our stripling then,
      And joyous the hurra!

    "The battle lost" our battle-cry;
      The foe once more advances:
    As some fierce whirlwind cleaves the sky,
    We skirr, through blood and slaughter, by,
      Amidst a night of lances!

    On, lion-like, grim Ulrick sweeps--
      Bright shines his hero-glaive--
    Her chase before him Fury keeps,
    Far-heard behind him, Anguish weeps,
      And round him--is the Grave!

    Woe--woe! it gleams--the sabre-blow--
      Swift-sheering down it sped--
    Around, brave hearts the buckler throw--
    Alas! our boast in dust is low!
      Count Eberhard's boy is dead!

    Grief checks the rushing Victor-van--
      Fierce eyes strange moisture know--
    On rides old Eberhard, stern and wan,
    "My son is like another man--
      March, children, on the Foe!"

    And fiery lances whirr'd around,
      Revenge, at least, undying--
    Above the blood-red clay we bound--
    Hurrah! the burghers break their ground,
      Through vale and woodland flying!

    Back to the camp, behold us throng,
      Flags stream, and bugles play--
    Woman and child with choral song,
    And men, with dance and wine, prolong
      The warrior's holyday.

    And our old Count--and what doth he?
      Before him lies his son,
    Within his lone tent, lonelily,
    The old man sits with eyes that see
      Through one dim tear--his son!

    So heart and soul, a loyal band,
      Count Eberhard's band, we are!
    His front the tower that guards the land,
    A thunderbolt his red right hand--
      His eye a guiding star!

    [10] Of the two opening lines we subjoin the original--to the
    vivacity and spirit of which it is, perhaps, impossible to do
    justice in translation:--

        "Ihr--Ihr dort aussen in der Welt,
        Die Nasen einges pannt!"

    Eberhard, Count of Wurtemberg, reigned from 1344 to 1392.
    Schiller was a Swabian, and this poem seems a patriotic
    effusion to exalt one of the heroes of his country, of whose
    fame (to judge by the lines we have just quoted) the rest of
    the Germans might be less reverentially aware.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A MORALIST.

    Are the sports of our youth so displeasing?
      Is love but the folly you say?
    Benumb'd with the Winter, and freezing,
      You scold at the revels of May.

    For you once a nymph had her charms,
      And oh! when the waltz you were wreathing,
    All Olympus embraced in your arms--
      All its nectar in Julia's breathing.

    If Jove at that moment had hurl'd
      The earth in some other rotation,
    Along with your Julia whirl'd,
      You had felt not the shock of creation.

    Learn this--that Philosophy beats
      Sure time with the pulse--quick or slow
    As the blood from the heyday retreats,--
      But it cannot make gods of us--No!

    It is well, icy Reason should thaw
      In the warm blood of Mirth now and then,
    The Gods for themselves have a law
      Which they never intended for men.

    The spirit is bound by the ties
      Of its jailer, the Flesh--if I can
    Not reach, as an angel, the skies,
      Let me feel, on the earth, as a Man.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROUSSEAU.[11]

    Oh, Monument of Shame to this our time,
    Dishonouring record to thy Mother Clime!
    Hail, Grave of Rousseau! Here thy sorrows cease.
    Freedom and Peace from earth and earthly strife!
    Vainly, sad seeker, didst thou search through life
    To find--(found now)--the Freedom and the Peace.
    When will the old wounds scar? In the dark age
    Perish'd the wise. Light came; how fares the sage?
    There's no abatement of the bigot's rage.
    Still as the wise man bled, he bleeds again.
    Sophists prepared for Socrates the bowl--
    And Christians drove the steel through Rousseau's soul--
    Rousseau who strove to render Christians--men.

    [11] Schiller lived to reverse, in the third period of his
    intellectual career, many of the opinions expressed in the
    first. The sentiment conveyed in these lines on Rousseau is
    natural enough to the author of "The Robbers," but certainly
    not to the poet of "Wallenstein" and the "Lay of the Bell." We
    confess we doubt the maturity of any mind that can find either
    a saint or a martyr in Jean Jacques.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORTUNE AND WISDOM.

    In a quarrel with her lover
      To Wisdom Fortune flew;
    "I'll all my hoards discover--
      Be but my friend--to you.
    Like a mother I presented
      To one each fairest gift,
    Who still is discontented,
      And murmurs at my thrift.
    Come, let's be friends. What say you?
      Give up that weary plough,
    My treasures shall repay you,
      For both I have enow!"
    "Nay, see thy Friend betake him
      To death from grief for thee--
    He dies if thou forsake him--
      Thy gifts are nought to me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INFANTICIDE.

    1.

    Hark where the bells toll, chiming, dull and steady,
      The clock's slow hand hath reach'd the appointed time.
    Well, be it so--prepare! my soul is ready,
      Companions of the grave--the rest for crime!
    Now take, O world! my last farewell--receiving
      My parting kisses--in these tears they dwell!
    Sweet are thy poisons while we taste believing,
      Now we are quits--heart-poisoner, fare-thee-well!

    2.

    Farewell, ye suns that once to joy invited,
      Changed for the mould beneath the funeral shade
    Farewell, farewell, thou rosy Time delighted,
      Luring to soft desire the careless maid.
    Pale gossamers of gold, farewell, sweet-dreaming
      Fancies--the children that an Eden bore!
    Blossoms that died while dawn itself was gleaming,
      Opening in happy sunlight never more.

    3.

    Swanlike the robe which Innocence bestowing,
      Deck'd with the virgin favours, rosy fair,
    In the gay time when many a young rose glowing,
      Blush'd through the loose train of the amber hair.
    Woe, woe! as white the robe that decks me now--
      The shroud-like robe Hell's destined victim wears;
    Still shall the fillet bind this burning brow--
      That sable braid the Doomsman's hand prepares!

    4.

    Weep, ye who never fell--for whom, unerring,
      The soul's white lilies keep their virgin hue,
    Ye who when thoughts so danger-sweet are stirring,
      Take the stern strength that Nature gives the few
    Woe, for too human was this fond heart's feeling--
      Feeling!--my sin's avenger[12] doom'd to be;
    Woe--for the false man's arm around me stealing,
      Stole the lull'd Virtue, charm'd to sleep, from me.

    5.

    Ah, he perhaps shall, round another sighing,
      (Forgot the serpents stinging at my breast,)
    Gaily, when I in the dumb grave am lying,
      Pour the warm wish, or speed the wanton jest,
    Or play, perchance, with his new maiden's tresses,
      Answer the kiss her lip enamour'd brings,
    When the dread block the head he cradled presses,
      And high the blood his kiss once fever'd springs.

    6.

    Thee, Francis, Francis,[13] league on league, shall follow
      The death-dirge of the Lucy once so dear;
    From yonder steeple, dismal, dull, and hollow,
      Shall knell the warning horror on thy ear.
    On thy fresh leman's lips when Love is dawning,
      And the lisp'd music glides from that sweet well--
    Lo, in that breast a red wound shall be yawning,
      And, in the midst of rapture, warn of hell!

    7.

    Betrayer, what! thy soul relentless closing
      To grief--the woman-shame no art can heal--
    To that small life beneath my heart reposing!
      Man, man, the wild beast for its young can feel!
    Proud flew the sails--receding from the land,
      I watch'd them waning from the wistful eye,
    Round the gay maids on Seine's voluptuous strand,
      Breathes the false incense of his fatal sigh.

    8.

    And there the Babe! there, on the mother's bosom,
      Lull'd in its sweet and golden rest it lay,
    Fresh in life's morning as a rosy blossom,
      It smiled, poor harmless one, my tears away.
    Deathlike yet lovely, every feature speaking
      In such dear calm and beauty to my sadness,
    And cradled still the mother's heart, in breaking,
      The soft'ning love and the despairing madness.

    9.

    "Woman, where is my father?"--freezing through me,
      Lisp'd the mute Innocence with thunder-sound;
    "Woman, where is thy husband?"--called unto me,
      In every look, word, whisper, busying round!
    For thee, poor child, there is no father's kiss.
      He fondleth other children on his knee.
    How thou wilt curse our momentary bliss,
      When Bastard on thy name shall branded be!

    10.

    Thy mother--oh, a hell her heart concealeth,
      Lone-sitting, lone in social Nature's All!
    Thirsting for that glad fount thy love revealeth,
      While still thy look the glad fount turns to gall.
    In every infant cry my soul is heark'ning,
      The haunting happiness for ever o'er,
    And all the bitterness of death is dark'ning
      The heavenly looks that smiled mine eyes before.

    11.

    Hell, if my sight those looks a moment misses--
      Hell, when my sight upon those looks is turn'd--
    The avenging furies madden in thy kisses,
      That slept in his what time my lips they burn'd.
    Out from their graves his oaths spoke back in thunder!
      The perjury stalk'd like murder in the sun--
    For ever--God!--sense, reason, soul, sunk under--
      The deed was done!

    12.

    Francis, O Francis! league on league, shall chase thee
      The shadows hurrying grimly on thy flight--
    Still with their icy arms they shall embrace thee,
      And mutter thunder in thy dream's delight!
    Down from the soft stars, in their tranquil glory,
      Shall look thy dead child with a ghastly stare;
    That shape shall haunt thee in its cerements gory,
      And scourge thee back from heaven--its home is there!

    13.

    Lifeless--how lifeless!--see, oh see, before me
      It lies cold--stiff!--O God!--and with that blood
    I feel, as swoops the dizzy darkness o'er me,
      Mine own life mingled--ebbing in the flood--
    Hark, at the door they knock--more loud within me--
      More awful still--its sound the dread heart gave!
    Gladly I welcome the cold arms that win me--
      Fire, quench thy tortures in the icy grave!

    14.

    Francis--a God that pardons dwells in heaven--
      Francis, the sinner--yes--she pardons thee--
    So let my wrongs unto the earth be given:
      Flame seize the wood!--it burns--it kindles--see!
    There--there his letters cast--behold are ashes--
      His vows--the conquering fire consumes them here:
    His kisses--see--see all--all are only ashes--
      All, all--the all that once on earth were dear!

    15.

    Trust not the roses which your youth enjoyeth,
      Sisters, to man's faith, changeful as the moon!
    Beauty to me brought guilt--its bloom destroyeth:
      Lo, in the judgment court I curse the boon:
    Tears in the headsman's gaze--what tears?--tis spoken!
      Quick, bind mine eyes--all soon shall be forgot--
    Doomsman--the lily hast thou never broken?
      Pale doomsman--tremble not!

    [12] "Und Empfindung soll mein Richtschwert seyn." A line of
    great vigour in the original, but which, if literally
    translated, would seem extravagant in English.

    [13] Joseph, in the original.

[The poem we have just concluded was greatly admired at the time of its first publication,
and it so far excels in art most of the earlier efforts by the author, that it attains one
of the highest secrets in true pathos. It produces interest for the criminal while creating
terror for the crime. This, indeed, is a triumph in art never achieved but by the highest genius.
The inferior writer, when venturing upon the grandest stage of passion, (which unquestionably
exists in the delineation of great guilt as of heroic virtue,) falls into the error either
of gilding the crime in order to produce sympathy for the criminal, or, in the spirit of a
spurious morality, of involving both crime and criminal in a common odium. It is to discrimination
between the doer and the deed, that we owe the sublimest revelations of the human heart: in
this discrimination lies the key to the emotions produced by the Oedipus and Macbeth. In the
brief poem before us a whole drama is comprehended. Marvellous is the completeness of the pictures
it presents--its mastery over emotions the most opposite--its fidelity to nature in its exposition
of the disordered and despairing mind in which tenderness becomes cruelty, and remorse for
error tortures itself into scarce conscious crime.

But the art employed, though admirable of its kind, still falls short of the perfection which,
in his later works, Schiller aspired to achieve, viz. the point at which Pain ceases. The tears
which Tragic Pathos, when purest and most elevated, calls forth, ought not to be tears of pain.
In the ideal world, as Schiller has inculcated, even sorrow should have its charm--all that
harrows, all that revolts, belongs but to that inferior school in which Schiller's fiery youth
formed itself for nobler grades--the school "of Storm and Pressure"--(Stürm und Dräng--as the
Germans have expressively described it.) If the reader will compare Schiller's poem of the
'Infanticide,' with the passages which represent a similar crime in the Medea, (and the author
of 'Wallenstein' deserves comparison even with Euripides,) he will see the distinction between
the art that seeks an elevated emotion, and the art which is satisfied with creating an intense
one. In Euripides, the detail--the reality--all that can degrade terror into pain--are loftily
dismissed. The Titan grandeur of the Sorceress removes us from too close an approach to the
crime of the unnatural Mother--the emotion of pity changes into awe--just at the pitch before
the coarse sympathy of actual pain can be effected. And it is the avoidance of reality--it
is the all-purifying Presence of the Ideal, which make the vast distinction in our emotions
between following, with shocked and displeasing pity, the crushed, broken-hearted, mortal criminal
to the scaffold, and gazing--with an awe which has pleasure of its own--upon the Mighty Murderess--soaring
out of the reach of Humanity, upon her Dragon Car!]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE.

A HYMN.

    Blessed through love are the Gods above--
      Through love like the Gods may man be;
    Heavenlier through love is the heaven above,
      Through love like a heaven earth can be!
    Once, as the poet sung,
      In Pyrrha's time, 'tis known,
    From rocks Creation sprung,
      And Men leapt up from stone;
    Rock and stone, in night
      The souls of men were seal'd,
    Heaven's diviner light
      Not as yet reveal'd;
    As yet the Loves around them
    Had never shone--nor bound them
      With their rosy rings;
    As yet their bosoms knew not
    Soft song--and music grew not
      Out of the silver strings.
    No gladsome garlands cheerily
      Were love-y-woven then;
    And o'er Elysium drearily
      The May-time flew for men;[14]
    The morning rose ungreeted
      From ocean's joyless breast;
    Unhail'd the evening fleeted
      To ocean's joyless breast--
    Wild through the tangled shade,
    By clouded moons they stray'd,
      The iron race of Men!
    Sources of mystic tears,
    Yearnings for starry spheres,
      No God awaken'd then!

    Lo, mildly from the dark-blue water,
    Comes forth the Heaven's divinest Daughter,
      Borne by the Nymphs fair-floating o'er
      To the intoxicated shore!
    Like the light-scattering wings of morning
    Soars universal May, adorning
    As from the glory of that birth
    Air and the ocean, heaven and earth!
    Day's eye looks laughing, where the grim
    Midnight lay coil'd in forests dim;
    And gay narcissuses are sweet
    Wherever glide those holy feet--
      Now, pours the bird that haunts the eve
    The earliest song of love,
      Now in the heart--their fountain--heave
    The waves that murmur love.
    O blest Pygmalion--blest art thou--
    It melts, it glows, thy marble now!
    O Love, the God, thy world is won!
    Embrace thy children, Mighty One.

    Where the nectar-bright streams,
    Like the dawn's happy dreams,
    Eternally one holiday,
    The life of the Gods glides away.
    Throned on his seat sublime,
    Looks He whose years know not time;
    At his nod, if his anger awaken,
    At the wave of his hair all Olympus is shaken.
    Yet He from the throne of his birth,
    Bow'd down to the sons of the earth,
    Through dim Arcadian glades to wander sighing,
      Lull'd into dreams of bliss--
      Lull'd by his Leda's kiss
    Lo, at his feet the harmless thunders lying!

    The Sun's majestic coursers go
      Along the Light's transparent plain,
      Curb'd by the Day-god's golden rein;
    The nations perish at his bended bow;
      Steeds that majestic go,
      Death from the bended bow,
      Gladly he leaves above--
      For Melody and Love!
    Low bend the dwellers of the sky,
    When sweeps the stately Juno by;
    Proud in her car, the Uncontroll'd
      Curbs the bright birds that breast the air,
    As flames the sovereign crown of gold
      Amidst the ambrosial waves of hair--
    Ev'n thou, fair Queen of Heaven's high throne,
    Hast Love's subduing sweetness known;
    From all her state, the Great One bends
      To charm the Olympian's bright embraces,
    The Heart-Enthraller only lends
      The rapture-cestus of the Graces!

    Blessed through love are the Gods above--
      Through love like a God may man be;
    Heavenlier through love is the heaven above,
      Through love like a heaven earth can be!

    Love can sun the Realms of Night--
    Orcus owns the magic might--
    Peaceful where She sits beside,
    Smiles the swart King on his Bride;
    Hell feels the smile in sudden light--
    Love can sun the Realms of Night.
    Heavenly o'er the startled Hell,
    Holy, where the Accursed dwell,
      O Thracian, went thy silver song!
    Grim Minos, with unconscious tears,
    Melts into mercy as he hears--
    The serpents in Megara's hair,
    Kiss, as they wreathe enamour'd there;
      All harmless rests the madding thong;--
    From the torn breast the Vulture mute
    Flies, scared before the charmèd lute--
    Lull'd into sighing from their roar
    The dark waves woo the listening shore--
    Listening the Thracian's silver song!--
    Love was the Thracian's silver song!

    Through Nature blossom-strewing,
    One footstep we are viewing,
      One flash from golden pinions!--
    If from Heaven's starry sea,
      If from the moonlit sky;
    If from the Sun's dominions,
      Look'd not Love's laughing eye;
    Then Sun and Moon and Stars would be
    Alike, without one smile for me!
      But, oh, wherever Nature lives
        Below, around, above--
      Her happy eye the mirror gives
        To thy glad beauty, Love!

    Love sighs through brooklets silver-clear,
      Love bids their murmur woo the vale;
    Listen, O list! Love's soul ye hear
      In his own earnest nightingale.
    No sound from Nature ever stirs,
    But Love's sweet voice is heard with hers!
    Bold Wisdom, with her sunlit eye,
    Retreats when love comes whispering by--
      For Wisdom's weak to love!
    To victor stern or monarch proud,
    Imperial Wisdom never bow'd
      The knee she bows to Love!
    Who through the steep and starry sky,
    Goes onward to the gods on high,
      Before thee, hero-brave?
    Who halves for thee the land of Heaven;
    Who shows thy heart, Elysium, given
      Through the flame-rended Grave?
    Below, if we were blind to Love,
    Say, should we soar o'er Death, above?
    Would the weak soul, did Love forsake her,
    E'er gain the wing to seek the Maker?
    Love, only Love, can guide the creature
    Up to the Father-fount of Nature;
    What were the soul did Love forsake her?
    Love guides the Mortal to the Maker!

       *       *       *       *       *

FANTASIE TO LAURA.

    What, Laura, say, the vortex that can draw
      Body to body in its strong control;
    Beloved Laura, what the charmèd law
      That to the soul attracting plucks the soul?
    It is the charm that rolls the stars on high,
      For ever round the sun's majestic blaze--
    When, gay as children round their parent, fly
      Their circling dances in delighted maze.
    Still, every star that glides its gladsome course,
      Thirstily drinks the luminous golden rain;
    Drinks the fresh vigour from the fiery source,
      As limbs imbibe life's motion from the brain;
    With sunny motes, the sunny motes united
      Harmonious lustre both receive and give,
    Love spheres with spheres still interchange delighted,
      Only through love the starry systems live.
    Take love from Nature's universe of wonder,
      Each jarring each, rushes the mighty All.
    See, back to Chaos shock'd, Creation thunder;
      Weep, starry Newton--weep the giant fall!
    Take from the spiritual scheme that Power away,
      And the still'd body shrinks to Death's abode.
    Never--love not--would blooms revive for May,
      And, love extinct, all life were dead to God.
    Mighty alike to sway the flow and ebb
      Of the inanimate Matter, or to move
    The nerves that weave the Arachnèan web
      Of Sentient Life--rules all-pervading Love!
    Ev'n in the Moral World, embrace and meet
      Emotions--Gladness clasps the extreme of Care;
    And Sorrow, at the worst, upon the sweet
      Breast of young Hope, is thaw'd from its despair.
    Of sister-kin to melancholy Woe,
      Voluptuous Pleasure comes, and with the birth
    Of her gay children, (golden Wishes,) lo,
      Night flies, and sunshine settles on the earth![15]
    The same great Law of Sympathy is given
      To Evil as to Good, and if we swell
    The dark account that life incurs with Heaven,
      'Tis that our Vices are thy Wooers, Hell!
    In turn those Vices are embraced by Shame
      And fell Remorse, the twin Eumenides.
    Danger still clings in fond embrace to Fame,
      Mounts on her wing, and flies where'er she flees.
    Destruction marries its dark self to Pride,
      Envy to Fortune: when Desire most charms,
    'Tis that her brother Death is by her side,
      For him she opens those voluptuous arms.
    The very Future to the Past but flies
      Upon the wings of Love--as I to thee;
    O, long swift Saturn, with unceasing sighs,
      Hath sought his distant bride, Eternity!
    When--so I heard the oracle declare--
      When Saturn once shall clasp that bride sublime,
    Wide-blazing worlds shall light his nuptials there--
      'Tis thus Eternity shall wed with Time.
    In those shall be our nuptials! ours to share
      That bridenight, waken'd by no jealous sun;
    Since Time, Creation, Nature, but declare
      Love--in our love rejoice, Beloved One!

    [15] Literally, "the eye beams its sun-splendour," or, "beams
    like a sun." For the construction that the Translator has put
    upon the original (which is extremely obscure) in the preceding
    lines of the stanza, he is indebted to Mr Carlyle. The general
    meaning of the Poet is, that Love rules all things in the
    inanimate or animate creation; that, even in the moral world,
    opposite emotions or principles meet and embrace each other.
    The idea is pushed into an extravagance natural to the youth,
    and redeemed by the passion, of the Author. But the connecting
    links are so slender, nay, so frequently omitted, in the
    original, that a certain degree of paraphrase in many of the
    stanzas is absolutely necessary to supply them, and render the
    general sense and spirit of the poem intelligible to the
    English reader.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE SPRING.

    Welcome, gentle Stripling,
      Nature's darling, thou--
    With thy basket full of blossoms,
      A happy welcome now!
    Aha!--and thou returnest,
      Heartily we greet thee--
    The loving and the fair one,
      Merrily we meet thee!
    Think'st thou of my Maiden
      In thy heart of glee?
    I love her yet the Maiden--
      And the Maiden yet loves me!

       *       *       *       *       *

NATURAL HISTORY OF SALMON AND SEA-TROUT.

    [On the Growth of Grilse and Salmon. By Mr Andrew Young,
    Invershin, Sutherlandshire.
    By Mr John Shaw, Drumlanrig. (Ibid.) Edinburgh, 1843.]

The salmon is undoubtedly the finest and most magnificent of our fresh-water fishes, or rather
of those anadromous kinds which, in accordance with the succession of the seasons, seek alternately
the briny sea and the "rivers of water." It is also the most important, both in a commercial
and culinary point of view as well as the most highly prized by the angler as an object of
exciting recreation. Notwithstanding these and other long-continued claims upon our consideration,
a knowledge of its natural history and habits has developed itself so slowly, that little or
nothing was precisely ascertained till very recently regarding either its early state or its
eventual changes. The salmon-trout, in certain districts of almost equal value with the true
salmon, was also but obscurely known to naturalists, most of whom, in truth, are too apt to
satisfy themselves rather by the extension than the increase of knowledge. They hand down to
posterity, in their barren technicalities, a great deal of what is neither new nor true, even
in relation to subjects which lie within the sphere of ordinary observation,--to birds and
beasts, which almost dwell among us, and give utterance, by articulate or intelligible sounds,
to a vast variety of instinctive, and as it were explanatory emotions:--what marvel, then,
that they should so often fail to inform us of what we desire to know regarding the silent,
because voiceless, inhabitants of the world of waters?

But that which naturalists have been unable to accomplish, has, so far as concerns the two
invaluable species just alluded to, been achieved by others with no pretension to the name;
and we now propose to present our readers with a brief sketch of what we conceive to be the
completed biography of salmon and sea-trout. In stating that our information has been almost
entirely derived from the researches of practical men, we wish it to be understood, and shall
afterwards endeavour to demonstrate, that these researches have, nevertheless, been conducted
upon those inductive principles which are so often characteristic of natural acuteness of perception,
when combined with candour of mind and honesty of purpose. We believe it to be the opinion
of many, that statements by comparatively uneducated persons are less to be relied upon than
those of men of science. It may, perhaps, be somewhat difficult to define in all cases what
really constitutes a man of science. Many sensible people suppose, that if a person pursues
an original truth, and obtains it--that is, if he ascertains a previously unknown or obscure
fact of importance, and states his observations with intelligence--he is entitled to that character,
whatever his station may be. For ourselves, we would even say that if his researches are truly
valuable, he is himself all the more a man of science in proportion to the difficulties or
disadvantages by which his position in life may be surrounded.

The development and early growth of salmon, from the ovum to the smolt, were first successfully
investigated by Mr John Shaw of Drumlanrig, one of the Duke of Buccleuch's gamekeepers in the
south of Scotland. Its subsequent progress from the smolt to the adult condition, through the
transitionary state of grilse, has been more recently traced, with corresponding care, by Mr
Andrew Young of Invershin, the manager of the Duke of Sutherland's fisheries in the north.
Although the fact of the parr being the young of the salmon had been vaguely surmised by many,
and it was generally admitted that the smaller fish were never found to occur except in streams
or tributaries to which the grown salmon had, in some way, the power of access, yet all who
have any acquaintance with the works of naturalists, will acknowledge that the parr was universally
described as a distinct species. It is equally certain that all who have written upon the subject
of smolts or salmon-fry, maintained that these grew rapidly in fresh water, and made their
way to the sea in the course of a few weeks after they were hatched.

Now, Mr Shaw's discovery in relation to these matters is in a manner twofold; first--he ascertained
by a lengthened series of rigorous and frequently-repeated experimental observations, that
parr are the early state of salmon, being afterwards converted into smolts; secondly,--he proved
that such conversion does not, under ordinary circumstances take place until the second spring
ensuing that in which the hatching has occurred, by which time the young are two years old.
The fact is, that during early spring there are three distinct broods of parr or young salmon
in our rivers.

1st, We have those which, recently excluded from the ova, are still invisible to common eyes;
or, at least, are inconspicuous or unobservable. Being weak, in consequence of their recent
emergence from the egg, and of extremely small dimensions, they are unable to withstand the
rapid flow of water, and so betake themselves to the gentler eddies, and frequently enter "into
the small hollows produced in the shingle by the hoofs of horses which have passed the fords."
In these and similar resting-places, our little natural philosophers, instinctively aware that
the current of a stream is less below than above, and along the sides than in the centre, remain
for several months during spring, and the earlier portion of the summer, till they gain such
an increase of size and strength as enables them to spread themselves abroad over other portions
of the river, especially those shallow places where the bottom is composed of fine gravel.
But at this time their shy and shingle-seeking habits in a great measure screen them from the
observance of the uninitiated.

2dly, We have likewise, during the spring season, parr which have just completed their first
year. As these have gained little or no accession of size during the winter months, owing to
the low temperature both of the air and water, and the consequent deficiency of insect food,
their dimensions are scarcely greater than at the end of the preceding October: that is, they
measure in length little more than three inches.--(N.B. The old belief was that they grew nine
inches in about three weeks, and as suddenly sought the turmoil of the sea.) They increase,
however in size as the summer advances, and are then the declared and admitted parr of anglers
and other men.

3dly, Simultaneously with the two preceding broods, our rivers are inhabited during March and
April by parr which have completed their second year. These measure six or seven inches in
length, and in the months of April and May they assume the fine silvery aspect which characterizes
their migratory condition,--in other words, they are converted into smolts, (the admitted fry
of salmon,) and immediately make their way towards the sea.

Now, the fundamental error which pervaded the views of previous observers of the subject, consisted
in the sudden sequence which they chose to establish between the hatching of the ova in early
spring, and the speedy appearance of the acknowledged salmon-fry in their lustrous dress of
blue and silver. Observing, in the first place, the hatching of the ova, and, erelong, the
seaward migration of the smolts, they imagined these two facts to take place in the relation
of immediate or connected succession; whereas they had no more to do with each other than an
infant in the nursery has to do with his elder, though not very ancient, brother, who may be
going to school. The rapidity with which the two-year-old parr are converted into smolts, and
the timid habits of the new-hatched fry, which render them almost entirely invisible during
the first few months of their existence,--these two circumstances combined, have no doubt induced
the erroneous belief that the silvery smolts were the actual produce of the very season in
which they are first observed in their migratory dress: that is, that they were only a few
weeks old, instead of being upwards of two years. It is certainly singular, however, that no
enquirer of the old school should have ever bethought himself of the mysterious fate of the
two-year-old parr, (supposing them not to be young salmon,) none of which, of course, are visible
after the smolts have taken their departure to the sea. If the two fish, it may be asked, are
not identical, how does it happen that the one so constantly disappears along with the other?
Yet no one alleges that he has ever seen parr as such, making a journey towards the sea "They
cannot do so" says Mr Shaw, "because they have been previously converted into smolts."

Mr Shaw's investigations were carried on for a series of years, both on the fry as it existed
naturally in the river, and on captive broods produced from ova deposited by adult salmon,
and conveyed to ingeniously-constructed experimental ponds, in which the excluded young were
afterwards nourished till they threw off the livery of the parr, and underwent their final
conversion into smolts. When this latter change took place, the migratory instinct became so
strong that many of them, after searching in vain to escape from their prison--the little streamlet
of the pond being barred by fine wire gratings--threw themselves by a kind of parabolic somerset
upon the bank and perished. But, previous to this, he had repeatedly observed and recorded
the slowly progressive growth to which we have alluded. The value of the parr, then, and the
propriety of a judicious application of our statutory regulations to the preservation of that
small, and, as hitherto supposed, insignificant fish, will be obvious without further comment.[16]

    [16] Mr Shaw's researches include some curious physiological
    and other details, for an exposition of which our pages are not
    appropriate. But we shall here give the titles of his former
    papers. "An account of some Experiments and Observations on the
    Parr, and on the Ova of the Salmon, proving the Parr to be the
    Young of the Salmon."--Edinburgh New Phil. Journ. vol. xxi.
    p. 99. "Experiments on the Development and Growth of the Fry of
    the Salmon, from the Exclusion of the Ovum to the Age of Six
    Months."--Ibid. vol. xxiv. p. 165. "Account of Experimental
    Observations on the Development and Growth of Salmon Fry, from
    the Exclusion of the Ova to the Age of Two
    Years."--Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol.
    xiv. part ii. (1840.) The reader will find an abstract of these
    discoveries in the No. of this Magazine for April 1840.

Having now exhibited the progress of the salmon fry from the ovum to the smolt, our next step
shall be to show the connexion of the latter with the grilse. As no experimental observations
regarding the future dimensions of the détenus of the ponds could be regarded as legitimate
in relation to the usual increase of the species, (any more than we could judge of the growth
of a young English guardsman in the prisons of Verdun,) after the period of their natural migration
to the sea, and as Mr Shaw's distance from the salt water--twenty-five miles, we believe, windings
included--debarred his carrying on his investigations much further with advantage, he wisely
turned his attention to a different, though cognate subject, to which we shall afterwards refer.
We are, however, fortunately enabled to proceed with our history of the adolescent salmon by
means of another ingenious observer already named, Mr Andrew Young of Invershin.

It had always been the prevailing belief that smolts grew rapidly into grilse, and the latter
into salmon. But as soon as we became assured of the gross errors of naturalists, and all other
observers, regarding the progress of the fry in fresh water, and how a few weeks had been substituted
for a period of a couple of years, it was natural that considerate people should suspect that
equal errors might pervade the subsequent history of this important species. It appears, however,
that marine influence (in whatever way it works) does indeed exercise a most extraordinary
effect upon those migrants from our upland streams, and that the extremely rapid transit of
a smolt to a grilse, and of the latter to an adult salmon, is strictly true. Although Mr Young's
labours in this department differ from Mr Shaw's, in being rather confirmatory than original,
we consider them of great value, as reducing the subject to a systematic form, and impressing
it with the force and clearness of the most successful demonstration.

Mr Young's first experiments were commenced as far back as 1836, and were originally undertaken
with a view to show whether the salmon of each particular river, after descending to the sea,
returned again to their original spawning-beds, or whether, as some supposed, the main body,
returning coastwards from their feeding grounds in more distant parts of the ocean, and advancing
along our island shores, were merely thrown into, or induced to enter, estuaries and rivers
by accidental circumstances; and that the numbers obtained in these latter localities thus
depended mainly on wind and weather, or other physical conditions, being suitable to their
upward progress at the time of their nearing the mouths of the fresher waters. To settle this
point, he caught and marked all the spawned fish which he could obtain in the course of the
winter months during their sojourn in the rivers. As soon as he had hauled the fish ashore,
he made peculiar marks in their caudal fins by means of a pair of nipping-irons, and immediately
threw then back into the water. In the course of the following fishing season great numbers
were recaptured on their return from the sea, each in its own river bearing its peculiar mark.
"We have also," Mr Young informs us, "another proof of the fact, that the different breeds
or races of salmon continue to revisit their native streams. You are aware that the river Shin
falls into the Oykel at Invershin, and that the conjoined waters of these rivers, with the
Carron and other streams, form the estuary of the Oykel, which flows into the more open sea
beyond, or eastwards of the bar, below the Gizzen Brigs. Now, were the salmon which enter the
mouth of the estuary at the bar thrown in merely by accident or chance, we should expect to
find the fish of all the various rivers which form the estuary of the same average weight;
for, if it were a mere matter of chance, then a mixture of small and great would occur indifferently
in each of the interior streams. But the reverse of this is the case. The salmon in the Shin
will average from seventeen pounds to eighteen pounds in weight, while those of the Oykel scarcely
attain an average of half that weight. I am, therefore, quite satisfied, as well by having
marked spawned fish descending to the sea, and caught them ascending the same river, and bearing
that river's mark, as by a long-continued general observation of the weight, size, and even
something of the form, that every river has its own breed, and that breed continues, till captured
and killed, to return from year to year into its native stream."

We have heard of a partial exception to this instinctive habit, which, however, essentially
confirms the rule. We are informed that a Shin salmon (recognized as such by its shape and
size) was, on a certain occasion, captured in the river Conon, a fine stream which flows into
the upper portion of the neighbouring Frith of Cromarty. It was marked and returned to the
river, and was taken next day in its native stream the Shin, having, on discovering its mistake,
descended the Cromarty Frith, skirted the intermediate portion of the outer coast by Tarbet
Ness, and ascended the estuary of the Oykel. The distance may be about sixty miles. On the
other hand, we are informed by a Sutherland correspondent of a fact of another nature, which
bears strongly upon the pertinacity with which these fine fish endeavour to regain their spawning
ground. By the side of the river Helmsdale there was once a portion of an old channel forming
an angular bend with the actual river. In summer, it was only partially filled by a detached
or landlocked pool, but in winter, a more lively communication was renewed by the superabounding
waters. This old channel was, however, not only resorted to by salmon as a piece of spawning
ground during the colder season of the year, but was sought for again instinctively in summer
during their upward migration, when there was no water running through it. The fish being,
of course, unable to attain their object, have been seen, after various aerial boundings, to
fall, in the course of their exertions, upon the dry gravel bank between the river and the
pool of water, where they were picked up by the considerate natives.

No sooner had Mr Young satisfied himself that the produce of a river invariably returned to
that river after descending to the sea, than he commenced his operations upon the smolts--taking
up the subject where it was unavoidably left off by Mr Shaw[17]. His long-continued superintendence
of the Duke of Sutherland's fisheries in the north of Scotland, and his peculiar position as
residing almost within a few yards of the noted river Shin, afforded advantages of which he
was not slow to make assiduous use. He has now performed numerous and varied experiments, and
finds that, notwithstanding the slow growth of parr in fresh water, "such is the influence
of the sea as a more enlarged and salubrious sphere of life, that the very smolts which descend
into it from the rivers in spring, ascend into the fresh waters in the course of the immediate
summer as grilse, varying in size in proportion to the length of their stay in salt water."

    [17] Mr Young has, however, likewise repeated and confirmed Mr
    Shaw's earlier experiments regarding the slow growth of salmon
    fry in fresh water, and the conversion of parr into smolts. We
    may add, that Sir William Jardine, a distinguished
    Ichthyologist and experienced angler, has also corroborated Mr
    Shaw's observations.

For example, in the spring of 1837, Mr Young marked a great quantity of descending smolts,
by making a perforation in their caudal fins with a small pair of nipping-irons constructed
for the purpose, and in the ensuing months of June and July he recaptured a considerable number
on their return to the rivers, all in the condition of grilse, and varying from 3lbs. to 8lbs.,
"according to the time which had elapsed since their first departure from the fresh water,
or, in other words, the length of their sojourn in the sea." In the spring of 1842, he likewise
marked a number of descending smolts, by clipping off what is called the adipose fin upon the
back. In the course of the ensuing June and July, he caught them returning up the river, bearing
his peculiar mark, and agreeing with those of 1837 both in respect to size, and the relation
which that size bore to the lapse of time.

The following list from Mr Young's note-book, affords a few examples of the rate of growth:--

List of Smolts marked in the River, and recaptured as Grilse on their first ascent from the Sea.

 Period of marking.  | Period of recapture. | Weight when retaken.
---------------------+----------------------+----------------------
1842. April and May. |    1842. June 28.    |     4   lb.
  ...     ...        |          July 15.    |     5   lb
  ...     ...        |           ... 15.    |     5   lb.
  ...     ...        |           ... 25.    |     7   lb.[18]
  ...     ...        |           ... 25.    |     5   lb.
  ...     ...        |           ... 30.    |   3-1/2 lb.[18]

We may now proceed to consider the final change,--that of the grilse into the adult salmon.
We have just seen that smolts return to the rivers as grilse, (of the weights above noted,)
during the summer and autumn of the same season in which they had descended for the first time
to the sea. Such as seek the rivers in the earlier part of summer are of small size, because
they have sojourned for but a short time in the sea:--such as abide in the sea till autumn,
attain of course a larger size. But it appears to be an established, though till now an unknown
fact, that with the exception of the early state of parr, in which the growth has been shown
to be extremely slow, salmon actually never do grow in fresh water at all, either as grilse
or in the adult state. All their growth in these two most important later stages, takes place
during their sojourn in the sea. "Not only," says Mr Young, "is this the case, but I have also
ascertained that they actually decrease in dimensions after entering the river, and that the
higher they ascend the more they deteriorate both in weight and quality. In corroboration of
this I may refer to the extensive fisheries of the Duke of Sutherland, where the fish of each
station of the same river are kept distinct from those of another station, and where we have
had ample proof that salmon habitually decrease in weight in proportion to their time and distance
from the sea."[19]

    [18] These two specimens are now preserved in the Museum of the
    Royal Society of Edinburgh.

    [19] The existence in the rivers during spring, of grilse which
    have spawned, and which weigh only three or four pounds, is
    itself a conclusive proof of this retardation of growth in
    fresh water. These fish had run, as anglers say--that is, had
    entered the rivers about midsummer of the preceding year--and
    yet had made no progress. Had they remained in the sea till
    autumn, their size on entering the fresh waters would have been
    much greater; or had they spawned early in winter, and
    descended speedily to the sea, they might have returned again
    to the river in spring as small salmon, while their more
    sluggish brethren of the same age were still in the streams
    under the form of grilse. All their growth, then, seems to take
    place during their sojourn in the sea, usually from eight to
    twelve weeks. The length of time spent in the salt waters, by
    grilse and salmon which have spawned, corresponds nearly to the
    time during which smolts remain in these waters; the former two
    returning as clean salmon, the last-named making their first
    appearance in our rivers as grilse.

Mr Young commenced marking grilses, with a view to ascertain that they became salmon, as far
back as 1837, and has continued to do so ever since, though never two seasons with the same
mark. We shall here record only the results of the two preceding years. In the spring of 1841,
he marked a number of spawned grilse soon after the conclusion of the spawning period. Taking
his "net and coble," he fished the river for the special purpose, and all the spawned grilse
of 4 lb. weight were marked by putting a peculiarly twisted piece of wire through the dorsal
fin. They were immediately thrown into the river, and of course disappeared, making their way
downwards with other spawned fish towards the sea. "In the course of the next summer we again
caught several of those fish which we had thus marked with wire as 4 lb. grilse, grown in the
short period of four or five months into beautiful full-formed salmon, ranging from 9 lb. to
14 lb. in weight, the difference still depending on the length of their sojourn in the sea."

In January 1842, he repeated the same process of marking 4 lb. grilse which had spawned, and
were therefore about to seek the sea; but, instead of placing the wire in the back fin, he
this year fixed it in the upper lobe of the tail, or caudal fin. On their return from the sea,
he caught many of these quondam grilse converted into salmon as before. The following lists
will serve to illustrate the rate of growth:--

List of Grilse marked after having spawned, and re-captured as Salmon, on their second ascent
from the Sea.

  Period of        Period of       Weight when    Weight when
   marking.        recapture.        marked.        retaken.

1841. Feb. 18.   1841.  June 23.      4 lbs.         9 lbs.
       ... 18.           ... 23.      4 lbs.        11 lbs.
       ... 18.           ... 25.      4 lbs.         9 lbs.
       ... 18.           ... 25.      4 lbs.        10 lbs.
       ... 18.          July 27.      4 lbs.        13 lbs.
       ... 18.           ... 28.      4 lbs.        10 lbs.
      March 4.          July  1.      4 lbs.        12 lbs.
       ...  4.           ...  1.      4 lbs.        14 lbs.
       ...  4.           ... 27.      4 lbs.        12 lbs.

1842. Jan. 29.   1842.  July  4.      4 lbs.         8 lbs.[20]
       ... 29.           ... 14.      4 lbs.         9 lbs.[20]
       ... 29.           ... 14.      4 lbs.         8 lbs.
      March 8.           ... 23.      4 lbs.         9 lbs.
      Jan. 29.           ... 29.      4 lbs.        11 lbs.
      March 8.          Aug.  4.      4 lbs.        10 lbs.
      Jan. 29.           ... 11.      4 lbs.        12 lbs.

During both these seasons, Mr Young informs us, he caught far more marked grilse returning
with the form and attributes of perfect salmon, than are recorded in the preceding lists. "In
many specimens the wires had been torn from the fins, either by the action of the nets or other
casualties; and, although I could myself recognise distinctly that they were the fish I had
marked, I kept no note of them. All those recorded in my lists returned and were captured with
the twisted wires complete, the same as the specimens transmitted for your examination."

    [20] These two specimens, with their wire marks in situ, may
    now be seen in the Museum of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

We agree with Mr Young in thinking that the preceding facts, viewed in connexion with Mr Shaw's
prior observations, entitle us to say, that we are now well acquainted with the history and
habits of the salmon, and its usual rate of growth from the ovum to the adult state. The young
are hatched after a period which admits of considerable range, according to the temperature
of the season, or the modifying character of special localities.[21] They usually burst the
capsule of the egg in 90 to 100 days after deposition, but they still continue for a considerable
time beneath the gravel, with the yelk or vitelline portion of the egg adhering to the body;
and from this appendage, which Mr Shaw likens to a red currant, they probably derive their
sole nourishment for several weeks. But though the lapse of 140 or even 150 days from the period
of deposition is frequently required to perfect the form of these little fishes, which even
then measure scarcely more than an inch in length, their subsequent growth is still extremely
slow; and the silvery aspect of the smolt is seldom assumed till after the expiry of a couple
of years. The great mass of these smolts descend to the sea during the months of April and
May,--the varying range of the spawning and hatching season carrying with it a somewhat corresponding
range in the assumption of the first signal change, and the consequent movement to the sea.
They return under the greatly enlarged form of grilse, as already stated, and these grilse
spawn that same season in common with the salmon, and then both the one and the other re-descend
into the sea in the course of the winter or ensuing spring. They all return again to the rivers
sooner or later, in accordance, as we believe, with the time they had previously left it after
spawning, early or late. The grilse have now become salmon by the time of their second ascent
from the sea; and no further change takes place in their character or attributes, except that
such as survive the snares of the fishermen, the wily chambers of the cruives, the angler's
gaudy hook, or the poacher's spear, continue to increase in size from year to year. Such, however,
is now the perfection of our fisheries, and the facilities for conveying this princely species
even from our northern rivers, and the "distant islands of the sea," to the luxurious cities
of more populous districts, that we greatly doubt if any salmon ever attains a good old age,
or is allowed to die a natural death. We are not possessed of sufficient data from which to
judge either of their natural term of life, or of their ultimate increase of size. They are
occasionally, though rarely, killed in Britain of the weight of forty and even fifty pounds.
In the comparatively unfished rivers of Scandinavia large salmon are much more frequent, although
the largest we ever heard of was an English fish which came into the possession of Mr Groves,
of Bond Street. It was a female, and weighed eighty-three pounds. In the year 1841, Mr Young
marked a few spawned salmon along with his grilse, employing as a distinctive mark copper wire
instead of brass. One of these, weighing twelve pounds, was marked on the 4th of March, and
was recaptured on returning from the sea on the 10th of July, weighing eighteen pounds. But
as we know not whether it made its way to the sea immediately after being marked, we cannot
accurately infer the rate of increase. It probably becomes slower every year, after the assumption
of the adult state. Why the salmon of one river should greatly exceed the average weight of
those of another into which it flows, is a problem which we cannot solve. The fact, for example,
of the river Shin flowing from a large lake, with a course of only a few miles, into the Oykel,
although it accounts for its being an early river, owing to the receptive depth, and consequently
higher temperature of its great nursing mother, Loch Shin, in no way, so far at least as we
can see, explains the great size of the Shin fish, which are taken in scores of twenty pounds'
weight. They have little or nothing to do with the loch itself, haunting habitually the brawling
stream, and spawning in the shallower fords, at some distance up, but still below the great
basin;[22] and there are no physical peculiarities which in any way distinguish the Shin from
many other lake born northern rivers, where salmon do not average half the size.

    [21] Mr Shaw, for example, states the following various periods
    as those which he found to elapse between the deposition of the
    ova and the hatching of the fry--90, 101, 108, and 131 days. In
    the last instance, the average temperature of the river for
    eight weeks, had not exceeded 33°.

    [22] If we are rightly informed, salmon were not in the habit
    of spawning in the rivulets which run into Loch Shin, till
    under the direction of Lord Francis Egerton some full-grown
    fish were carried there previous to the breeding season. These
    spawned; and their produce, as was to be expected, after
    descending to the sea, returned in due course, and, making
    their way through the loch, ascended their native tributaries.

Leaving the country of the Morer Chatt (the Celtic title of the Earls of Sutherland) we shall
now return to the retainer of the "bold Buccleuch." We have already mentioned that Mr Shaw,
having so successfully illustrated the early history of salmon, next turned his attention to
a cognate subject, that of the sea-trout (Salmo-trutta?) Although no positive observations
of any value, anterior to those now before us, had been made upon this species, it is obvious
that as soon as his discoveries regarding salmon fry had afforded, as it were, the key to this
portion of nature's secrets, it was easy for any one to infer that the old notions regarding
the former fish were equally erroneous. Various modifications of these views took place accordingly;
but no one ascertained the truth by observation. Mr Shaw was, therefore, entitled to proceed
as if the matter were solely in his own hands; and he makes no mention either of the "vain
imaginations" of Dr Knox, the more careful compilation of Mr Yarrell, or the still closer,
but by no means approximate calculations of Richard Parnell, M.D. In this he has acted wisely,
seeing that his own essay professes to be simply a statement of facts, and not an historical
exposition of the progress of error.

It would, indeed, have been singular if two species, in many respects so closely allied in
their general structure any economy, had been found to differ very materially in any essential
point. It now appears, however, that Mr Shaw's original discovery of the slow growth of salmon
fry in fresh water, applies equally to sea trout; and, indeed, his observations on the latter
are valuable not only in themselves, but as confirmatory of his remarks upon the former species.
The same principle has been found to regulate the growth and migrations of both, and Mr Shaw's
two contributions thus mutually strengthen and support each other.

The sea trout is well known to anglers as one of the liveliest of all the fishes subject to
his lure. Two species are supposed by naturalists to haunt our rivers--Salmo eriox, the bull
trout of the Tweed, comparatively rare on the western and northern coasts of Scotland, and
Salmo trutta, commonly called the sea or white trout, but, like the other species, also known
under a variety of provincial names, somewhat vaguely applied. In its various and progressive
stages, it passes under the names of fry, smolt, orange-fin, phinock, herling, whitling, sea-trout,
and salmon-trout. It is likewise the "Fordwich trout" of Izaak Walton, described by that poetical
old piscator as "rare good meat." As an article of diet it indeed ranks next to the salmon,
and is much superior in that respect to its near relation, S. eriox. It is taken in the more
seaward pools of our northern rivers, sometimes in several hundreds at a single haul; and vast
quantities, after being boiled, and hermetically sealed in tin cases, are extensively consumed
both in our home and foreign markets. But, notwithstanding its great commercial value, naturalists
have failed to present us with any accurate account of its consecutive history from the ovum
to the adult state. This desideratum we are now enabled to supply through Mr Shaw.

On the 1st of November 1839, this ingenious observer perceived a pair of sea-trouts engaged
together in depositing their spawn among the gravel of one of the tributaries of the river
Nith, and being unprovided at the moment with any apparatus for their capture, he had recourse
to his fowling-piece. Watching the moment when they lay parallel to each other, he fired across
the heads of the devoted pair, and immediately secured them both, although, as it afterwards
appeared, rather by the influence of concussion than the more immediate action of the shot.
They were about six inches under water. Having obtained a sufficient supply of the impregnated
spawn, he removed it in a bag of wire gauze to his experimental ponds. At this period the temperature
of the water was about 47°, but in the course of the winter it ranged a few degrees lower.
By the fortieth day the embryo fish were visible to the naked eye, and, on the 14th January,
(seventy-five days after deposition,) the fry were excluded from the egg. At this early period,
the brood exhibit no perceptible difference from that of the salmon, except that they are somewhat
smaller, and of paler hue. In two months they were an inch long, and had then assumed those
lateral markings so characteristic of the young of all the known Salmonidæ. They increased
in size slowly, measuring only three inches in length by the month of October, at which time
they were nine months old. In January 1841, they had increased to three and a half inches,
exhibiting a somewhat defective condition during the winter months, in one or more of which,
Mr Shaw seems to think, they scarcely grow at all. We need not here go through the entire detail
of these experiments.[23] In October (twenty-one months) they measured six inches in length,
and had lost those lateral bars, or transverse markings, which characterise the general family
in their early state. At this period they greatly resembled certain varieties of the common
river-trout, and the males had now attained the age of sexual completion, although none of
the females had matured the roe. This physiological fact is also observable in the true salmon.
In the month of May, three-fourths of the brood (being now upwards of two years old, and seven
inches long) assumed the fine clear silvery lustre which characterises the migratory condition,
being thus converted into smolts, closely resembling those of salmon in their general aspect,
although easily to be distinguished by the orange tips of the pectoral fins, and other characters
with which we shall not here afflict our readers.

    [23] A complete series of specimens, from the day of hatching
    till about the middle of the sixth year, has been deposited by
    Mr Shaw in the Museum of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

The natural economy of the sea-trout thus far approximates that of the genuine salmon, but
with the following exception. Mr Shaw is of opinion that about one-fourth of each brood never
assume the silvery lustre; and, as they are never seen to migrate in a dusky state towards
the sea, he infers that a certain portion of the species may be permanent residents in fresh
water.[24] In this respect, then, they resemble the river-trout, and afford an example of those
numerous gradations, both of form and instinct, which compose the harmonious chain of nature's
perfect kingdom. In support of this power of adaptation to fresh water possessed by sea-trout,
Mr Shaw refers to a statement by the late Dr McCulloch, that these fish had become permanent
inhabitants of a loch in the island of Lismore, Argyllshire. Similar facts have been recorded
by other naturalists, though, upon the whole, in a somewhat vague and inconclusive manner.
We have it in our power to mention a very marked example. When certain springs were conducted,
about twenty years ago, from the slopes of the Pentland Hills, near Edinburgh, into that city,
which Dr Johnson regarded as by no means abundantly supplied with the "pure element of water,"
it was necessary to compensate the mill-owners by another supply. Accordingly a valley, (the
supposed scene of Allan Ramsay's "Gentle Shepherd,") through which there flowed a small stream,
had a great embankment thrown across it. After this operation, of course the waters of the
upper portion of the stream speedily rose to a level with the sluices, thus forming a small
lake, commonly called the "Compensation Pond." The flow of water now escapes by throwing itself
over the outer side of the embankment, which is lofty and precipitous, in the form of a cataract,
up which no fish can possibly ascend. Yet in the pond itself we have recently ascertained the
existence of sea-trout in a healthy state, although such as we have examined, being young,
were of small size. These attributes, however, were all the more important as proving the breeding
condition of the parents in a state of prolonged captivity. It is obvious that sea-trout must
have made their way (in fulfilment of their natural migratory instinct) into the higher portions
of the stream prior to the completion of the obstructing dam; and as none could have ascended
since, it follows that the individuals in question (themselves and their descendants) must
have lived and bred in fresh water, without access to the sea, for a continuous period of nearly
twenty years. This is not only a curious fact in the natural history of the species, but it
is one of some importance in an economical point of view. Sea-trout, as an article of diet,
are much more valuable than river-trout; and if it can be ascertained that they breed freely,
and live healthily, without the necessity of access to the sea, it would then become the duty,
as it would doubtless be the desire, of those engaged in the construction of artificial ponds,
to stock those receptacles rather with the former than the latter.[25]

    [24] Mr Shaw informs us, moreover, that if those individuals
    which have assumed the silvery lustre be forcibly detained for
    a month or two in fresh water, they will resume the coloured
    coating which they formerly bore. The captive females, he adds,
    manifested symptoms of being in a breeding state by the
    beginning of the autumn of their third year. They were, in
    truth, at this time as old as herlings, though not of
    corresponding size, owing to the entire absence of marine
    agency.

    [25] Another interesting result may be noticed in connexion
    with this Compensation Pond. The original streamlet, like most
    others, was naturally stocked with small "burn-trout," which
    never exceeded a few ounces in weight, as their ultimate term
    of growth. But, in consequence of the formation above referred
    to, and the great increase of their productive feeding-ground,
    and tranquil places for repose and play, these tiny creatures
    have, in some instances, attained to an enormous size. We
    lately examined one which weighed six pounds. It was not a
    sea-trout, but a common fresh-water one--Salmo fario. This
    strongly exemplifies the conformable nature of fishes; that is,
    their power of adaptation to a change of external
    circumstances. It is as if a small Shetland pony, by being
    turned into a clover field, could be expanded into the gigantic
    dimensions of a brewer's horse.

Having narrated the result of Mr Shaw's experiment up to the migratory state of his brood,
we shall now refer to the further progress of the species. This, of course, we can only do
by turning our attention to the corresponding condition of the fry in their natural places
in the river. So far back as the 9th of May 1836, our observer noticed salmon fry descending
seawards, and he took occasion to capture a considerable number by admitting them into the
salmon cruive. On examination, he found about one-fifth of each shoal to be what he considered
sea-trout. Wisely regarding this as a favourable opportunity of ascertaining to what extent
they would afterwards "suffer a sea change," he marked all the smolts of that species (about
ninety in number) by cutting off the whole of the adipose fin, and three-quarters of the dorsal.
At a distance, by the course of the river, of twenty-five miles from the sea, he was not sanguine
of recapturing many of these individuals, and in this expectation he was not agreeably surprised
by any better success than he expected. However, on the 16th of July, exactly eighty days afterwards,
he recaptured as a herling (the next progressive stage) an individual bearing the marks he
had inflicted on the young sea-trout in the previous May. It measured twelve inches in length,
and weighed ten ounces. As the average weight of the migrating fry is about three and a half
ounces, it had thus gained an increase of six and a half ounces in about eighty days' residence
in salt water, supposing it to have descended to the sea immediately after its markings were
imposed. In this condition of herlings or phinocks, young sea-trout enter many of our rivers
in great abundance in the months of July and August.

On the 1st of August 1837--fifteen months after being marked as fry, on its way to the sea--another
individual was caught, and recognised by the absence of one fin, and the curtailment of another.
This specimen, as well as others, had no doubt returned, and escaped detection as a herling,
in 1836; but it was born for greater things, and when captured, as above stated, weighed two
pounds and a half. "He may be supposed," says Mr Shaw, "to represent pretty correctly the average
size of sea-trout on their second migration from the sea." In this state they usually make
their appearance in our rivers, (we refer at present particularly to those of Scotland,) in
greatest abundance in the months of May and June. This view of the progress of the species
clearly accounts for a fact well known to anglers, that in spring and the commencement of summer,
larger sea-trout are caught than in July and August, which would not be the case if they were
all fish of the same season. But the former are herlings which have descended, after spawning
early, to the sea, and returned with the increase just mentioned; the latter were nothing more
than smolts in May, and have only once enjoyed the benefit of sea bathing. They are a year
younger than the others.

As herlings (sea-trout in their third year) abounded in the river Nith during the summer of
1834, Mr Shaw marked a great number (524) by cutting off the adipose fin. "During the following
summer (1835) I recaptured sixty-eight of the above number as sea-trout, weighing on an average
about two and a half pounds. On these I put a second distinct mark, and again returned them
to the river, and on the next ensuing summer (1836) I recaptured a portion of them, about one
in twenty, averaging a weight of four pounds. I now marked them distinctively for the third
time, and once more returned them to the river, also for the third time. On the following season
(23d day of August 1837) I recaptured the individual now exhibited, for the fourth time.[26]
It then weighed six pounds." This is indeed an eventful history, and we question if any Salmo
trutta ever before felt himself so often out of his element. However, the individual referred
to must undoubtedly be regarded as extremely interesting to the naturalist. It exhibits, at
a single glance, the various marks put upon itself and its companions, as they were successively
recaptured, from year to year, on their return to the river--viz. 1st, The absence of the adipose
fin, (herling of ten or twelve ounces in 1834;) 2dly, One-third part of the dorsal fin removed,
(sea-trout of two and a half pounds in 1835;) 3dly, A portion of the anal fin clipt off (large
sea-trout of four pounds in 1836). In the 4th and last place, it shows, in its own proper person,
as leader of the forlorn hope of 1837, the state in which it was finally captured and killed,
of the weight of six pounds. It was then in its sixth year, and, representing the adult condition
of this migratory species, we think it renders further investigation unnecessary.

    [26] The specimen is preserved in the Museum of the Royal
    Society of Edinburgh.

From these and other experiments of a similar nature, which Mr Shaw has been conducting for
many years, he has come to the conclusion, that the small fry called "Orange-fins," which are
found journeying to the sea with smolts of the true salmon, are the young of sea-trout of the
age of two years;--that the same individuals, after nine or ten weeks' sojourn in salt water,
ascend the rivers as herlings, weighing ten or twelve ounces and on the approach of autumn
pass into our smaller tributaries with a view to the continuance of their kind;--that, having
spawned, they re-descend into the sea, where their increase of size (about one and a half pound
per annum) is almost totally obtained;--and that they return annually, with an accession of
size, for several seasons, to the rivers in which their parents gave them birth. In proof of
this last point, Mr Shaw informs us, that of the many hundred sea-trout of different ages which
he has marked in various modes, he is not aware that even a single individual has ever found
its way into any tributary of the Solway, saving that of the river Nith.

       *       *       *       *       *

CALEB STUKELY.

PART THE LAST.

TRANQUILITY.

