Donald asked no more questions. His thoughts leaped the desolate, frozen miles to where a lonely
girl watched hour by hour beside the wretched bed of her father, only relieved now and then
by a perfunctory and uninterested doctor. He had not allowed himself to think of her often;
it was a dangerous and poignant subject for him. He had kept his mind upon the plans that he
had set in operation. If those failed, he might entertain the sickening thought of never seeing
her again. He had no right to marry her and ruin her life, willing though she might be. Perhaps,
it would be a cruel mercy to go away. All this, if his plans failed. If they succeeded, there
was still the question of Charley Seguis and his own nonentity, the certificate in Maria's
muskrat-skin bag, and--

"Hey! What's this?" cried Timmins suddenly, sitting bolt upright.

Donald peered over the protection, and stiffened into immobility. Out from the edge of the
forest, silently and swiftly, poured Charley Seguis and his band, their guns held in readiness.
Suddenly, they saw the change that had come over the camp, and halted abruptly in amazed groups.

CHAPTER XXV

AGAINST FEARFUL ODDS

Donald seized his opportunity, and stood up to his full height, exposing his head and shoulders.

"Seguis," he said, "you're covered. I've come back with my men, and taken possession of your
furs. I call upon you to surrender."

Though a hundred yards away, the amazement depicted on the half-breed's face was apparent.
The men behind the barricade had thrust the long, black barrels of their guns through loopholes
left for that purpose, and trained them upon the disorganized free-traders.

For a tense minute, there was no reply. Then, Seguis spoke.

"Let me talk a moment with my men, will you?" he asked.

"I'll give you five minutes by the clock." Donald drew out the queer gold watch that was an
heirloom, and held it in his hand while the seconds ticked away. Seguis talked rapidly to his
followers.

"Time's up!" Donald snapped at last, shoving the watch back into the fur-lined pocket of his
jacket. "What are you going to do? Will you put down your arms peaceably, or shall I fire?"

"Fire and be hanged!" was the instant reply, as Seguis raised his own gun.

Instantly, the ten rifles behind the barricade barked as one. But, in the same second, as though
by preconcerted signal, the forty men at the edge of the forest dropped flat on the snow, and
the bullets whistled over them. The next moment, they had leaped to their feet, and scrambled
into the shelter of trees and brush.

"Well, boys, we're in for it now," said Donald cheerfully, happier now that battle offered
than he had been for many weeks. "They've got us at a disadvantage, and the odds are four to
one, so every shot must count."

"Right-o!" rejoined Timmins, and fell to whistling through his back teeth, a sure sign with
him of complete satisfaction.

Then began a grilling wait. Occasionally, a dark form would appear among the trees, speeding
from shelter to shelter, and the guns of the besieged would ring out sharply into the still
air. More than once, the bullets went home, and the runner leaped into the air with a yell,
and rolled over and over upon the snow.

"They're surrounding us," said Donald calmly. "I hate to do it, but we'll have to use these
furs after all, and a fur with a bullet hole in it isn't worth anything."

He called for volunteers to help him arrange the protection, and, when everyone spoke, told
off alternate men to keep the enemy covered while the others worked. The bales of pelts were
frozen into the rigidity of iron, and would form an excellent defense, but they were not now
in the proper position for this. It was necessary for the men to crawl out over the low line
that lay to their rear, and lift other bales back into the "trench" that was formed by the
log barricade.

The free-traders in the woods were aware of this necessity for exposure, and waited until a
man started on his venturesome journey. Then, they all blazed away at once. McTavish was the
first to expose himself. He returned with a bullet hole in his cap, and minus a generous share
of one boot-heel. Then, strategy was resorted to. A man would make a feint of rushing from
cover. Instantly, the heads of the men in the woods would appear, lying along their gun-barrels,
and, in the same instant, the bullets from the barricade would fly thick. After one such feint,
three of the enemy did not reappear, and then the foe began to grow cautious, never knowing
when the appearance of a head out of the trench meant a feint or an expedition.

It was impossible that such hazardous work should not have tragic results. Trip after trip,
Donald made without harm, but his men were not so fortunate. One was killed outright, and another,
game to the last, threw himself back among his companions, coughing blood from a bullet hole
in the lung, but with two bales of fur in his hands.

The free-traders, by this time, had almost completed their circle, and could fire upon the
besieged from every side except that which led down to the lake. Consequently, Donald was forced
to cover every direction at once, and could not concentrate more than two rifles upon any one
point. Presently, the firing from the woods became hotter, and the Hudson Bay leader, recognizing
the symptoms, crawled back and forth in the narrow trench, speaking to his men.

"They're probably going to try and carry our position with a charge. Shoot to kill, but don't
shoot one man--Charley Seguis."

"But, Captain, he's the ringleader," cried Timmins, annoyed. "If you finish him, the rest of
'em will go to the four winds."

"I know it," replied McTavish, "but I must still ask you to spare him. You remember, he saved
my life once, although he didn't mean to, and, besides, I have other and better reasons for
asking this: reasons that I can't tell you now. In time, you'll all know--if we can get out
of this thing alive."

"Oh, pshaw! We'll get out of it alive all right," drawled Buxton.

The man had Yankee blood in him somewhere, for now he was chewing tobacco industriously, and
staining the snow in front of the barricade, where a loophole between the logs offered him
opportunity for marksmanship of varying sorts.

"Here's hoping, boys," was Donald's rejoinder. "Now, their plan will probably be this: A stiff
fire will suddenly be poured in from one quarter to draw our attention there. At the same time,
a charge will start from the opposite side, and be upon us before we know it. Watch for it!"

He had hardly got the words out of his mouth, when there was a sudden, fierce volley from the
point just back of the black spot where once the warehouse had stood. The men in the trench
crouched low.

"Watch that firing, Timmins and Cameron," was the order. "The rest face the other way."

The seven fighting men left, swung around, and, in a minute, saw thirty trees suddenly give
birth to thirty gray, swift-moving men, who, with guns swinging loosely in their hands swooped
down the declivity at alarming speed. Seguis, tall and lithe, led them.

"Fire!" Five of the charging trappers sprawled forward, their arms outstretched, guns flying,
and snowshoes plowing the loose snow that covered the surface.

"Fire!" One rifle only responded now: the hammers of the others clicked sharply in unison,
but there was no explosion.

Nevertheless, the charge broke into precipitate retreat.

"What's the matter there, boys?"

"Ca'tridges no blame good!" drawled Buxton, trying vainly to stanch the flow of blood where
one of his fingers had been carried away. "Prob'ly they're center-fire ca'tridges for rim-fire
guns, or vicy-versy."

McTavish clenched his teeth.

