It might be supposed that white sand would have answered his purpose equally well, and have
been cheaper; but, being determined to give the body of his ware as great a degree of compactness
as possible, it was necessary that the materials should be reduced to the state almost of an
impalpable powder; and calcined flints are much more easily brought to this state by grinding
than sand would be. The perfect and equable mixture of these two ingredients being a point
of great importance, he did not choose to trust to the ordinary mode of treading them together
when moist, but having ground them between stones separately with water to the consistence
of cream, he mixed them together in this state by measure, and then, evaporating the superfluous
water by boiling in large cisterns, he obtained a composition of the most perfect uniformity
in every part. By the combination of these ingredients, in different proportions, and exposed
to different degrees of heat, he obtained all the variety of texture required, from the bibulous
ware employed for glazed articles, such as common plates and dishes, to the compact ware not
requiring glazing, of which he made mortars and other similar articles. The almost infusible
nature of the body allowed him also to employ a thinner and less fusible glaze, that is, one
in which no more lead entered than in common flint glass, and therefore incapable of being
affected by any articles of food contained or prepared in such vessels. With these materials,
either in their natural white or variously coloured--black by manganese, blue by cobalt, brown
and buff by iron--he produced imitations of the Etruscan vases, and of various other works
of ancient art, such as the world had never before seen--such as no subsequent artist has ever
attempted to rival. His copies of the Portland vase are miracles of skill; and the other specimens
of similar works may give some idea of the many beautiful works that were produced in his manufactory.
In table ware, for many years he led the way almost without a rival; but the immense demand
occasioned by the successive improvements of this article, which first put down the use of
delft, and then of pewter, gave ample room and encouragement to men of capital and skill to
enter the field of profit and competition. Much good has hence resulted; many subordinate improvements
have been effected and are almost daily making; and a new variety of ware, called ironstone,
has been invented, and so rapidly and judiciously improved, that, in appearance and in many
of its intrinsic properties, it bears a close resemblance to the older and coarser porcelains
of China itself.

I shall conclude by a summary account of the manufacture of the best table ware; for a considerable
part of which I am indebted to notes taken by Captain Bagnold, when visiting a pottery, inferior,
perhaps, to none in the country.

The materials of the Staffordshire ware are calcined flints and clay. The flints are burnt
in kilns, and then, while hot, quenched in water, by which they are cracked through their whole
substance. After being quenched they are ground in mills with water. The mill is a hollow cylinder
of wood bound with hoops, and having a bottom of blocks of chert, a hard, tough, siliceous
stone: the mill-shaft is perpendicular, and has two horizontal arms passing through it cross-wise.
Between these arms are laid loose blocks of chert, which are moved round on the bed-stone as
the arms revolve, and thus grind the flint with water to the consistence of cream.

The clay, from Dorsetshire and Devonshire, is mixed with water, and in this state is passed
through fine sieves to separate the grosser particles. The flint and clay are now mixed by
measure, and the mud or cream is passed through a sieve in order to render the mixture more
complete.

