This had come about in a rather curious manner. Finding the conversation of Fabio's wife and
daughters too commonplace, Monjardin, when he would recite some of his poems or tell some story
connected with his literary life, preferred to address Maria-José, whom he saw to be of a serious
and impressive nature.

"Let's have another poem, please, Mr. Monjardin!" she would ask in supplicating tone. "For
instance, that one you call 'Regrets.' You know?"

And then he would describe in his verse the grief of a heart, disillusioned and broken by the
cruelties of fate, that evoked in vain the remembrance of yesterday's lost loves, vanished
in the mists of eternal despair.

He recited these bitter griefs in a strong, healthy man's voice, erect in the center of the
parlor, looking mechanically, distractedly at Maria-José with his dreamy eyes; the concentrated
effort of his memory brought to his face an involuntary immobility which Maria-José, most deliciously
touched, drank in.

The poet had announced that he had written a poem which he would recite at Zézé's anniversary
dinner. The date for this was but a few days distant, and ever since the poet's announcement
the whole family had taken to teasing the old maid, christening her "the muse of inspiration,"
and asking her when the wedding would take place....

She smiled ingenuously; at such times her face would even take on an air of unusual happiness;
her features grew animated, less wrinkled and more firm.

On the day of the celebration Maria-José came out of her room radiant with hope. At the belt
of her white dress bloomed a rose; a little blood, set pulsing by her agitated heart, brought
a feeble color to her marble cheeks, from which now protruded her long nose in a manner less
displeasing than usual.

"See, mamma," remarked one of the nieces, "doesn't Zézé look like a young girl today?"

They dined amidst merry chatter. Seated directly across from Monjardin, Maria-José, hiding
her glances behind the fruit-bowls that covered the table, looked at him furtively without
surfeit. Her poor heart beat as if it would burst, waiting in agonized suspense for the poem
in which the poet, without doubt, was to declare his intimate feelings for her. Monjardin had
already pointed to his pocket as a token that he had the verses with him, and Zézé had trembled
with gratification as she bashfully lowered her long face.

Champagne sparkled in the glasses and toasts were given. Several guests of distinction spoke
first, then followed the hosts and their children,--frolicsome little things. Finally Monjardin
arose and unfolded a manuscript, asking permission to declaim the verses which he had composed
in honor of Maria-José, the central figure of the occasion. The guests greeted his remarks
with noisy and enthusiastic approbation.

"Hear! Hear!"

Engracigna and her daughters leaned over and cast malicious glances in the direction of Maria-José,
but she was paying no attention to them. Her ears were buzzing; it seemed that everything was
turning round.

Monjardin, the center of all eyes, made pompous preparation; he pulled down his vest, arranged
his sleeves and, in sonorous, cadenced voice began to recite his alexandrines, scanning the
lines impeccably.

