In whatever way this glaring evil may be explained away by native apologists, it really springs
from two very simple causes--insufficient wages and popular ignorance. The miserably low scale
of wages among the artisans of the great towns has long since become proverbial, but in the
agricultural districts matters are even worse. The ordinary wages of the Russian "field-hand"
are as follows: Laborers by the day, 37-1/2 kopecks (about 25 cents) per diem; by the month,
23 kopecks (15 cents); by the season, 17 kopecks (11 cents); in harvest, 75 kopecks (half a
dollar). For this pittance the peasants toil from twelve to fifteen, and often sixteen, hours
a day; and, thanks to their insufficient food, the constant strain soon begins to tell. A few
seasons of such overwork and their strength breaks down altogether, while, instead of the substantial
diet needed to recruit it, their scanty fare is still further diminished by the countless fasts
of the Greek Church, occurring twice, or even thrice, a week. Hence, upon the first outbreak
of fever or cholera the poor creatures perish helplessly, thousands upon thousands, while the
St. Petersburg fashionables, yawning over the printed death-roll, languidly wonder why the
lower classes are so careless of their health. Nor are the calamities entailed by superstition
less deplorable than those which spring from poverty. Those who have seen, in the villages
of the interior, new-born infants plunged in ice-cold water which it would be thought sacrilege
to warm; children of four and five running about on a bitter day in the fall of the year with
no clothing but a light linen shirt; cholera-stricken peasants refusing the medicines offered
them; and women employed in hard field-labor three days after their confinement,--can easily
credit the statement, frightful as it is, that at least fifty, and in some cases eighty-three,
per cent. of the children born in the provinces die in their infancy, and that the population
of certain districts has diminished fully one-third during the past generation.

  D.K.

SOCIETIES OF HEALTH.

That an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure has passed into a proverb, and yet there
is no doubt that the majority of the cases of sickness, general ill health and debility, especially
with women, arise from a disregard of the simplest rules for health. But how shall the people
learn these rules unless they are taught them? and who so well fitted to teach them as the doctors?

Does any one say that it is against the interest of the doctors to prevent disease? The reply
would be that such a conception of the medical profession is a very low one; for doctors were
men before they acquired their profession, and there is little doubt that they would find their
profession a much more agreeable, and possibly a more profitable, one if, as in China, they
were paid for keeping their patients well, instead of for curing, or trying to cure, them when
they are sick.

At least such a conception of his office has occurred to Dr. George Dutton of Springfield,
Mass., and he has been engaged for some years in attempting to have the idea practically introduced
in that city. About two years ago he started a Society of Health there with a few members.
The members, who have now reached about fifty, pay him two dollars each a year for advice and
one dollar for the expenses of the society. Whenever they need his services they call upon
him and get his advice gratis, or he calls upon them at their homes for half price. But this
is the smallest part of the innovation. By the agreement Dr. Dutton binds himself to give them
a free lecture once a month upon matters of hygiene and cognate subjects, either serving as
lecturer himself or obtaining the services of some competent person for the same duty. When
the society was first formed it was made a part of the agreement that the members should annually
elect their consulting physician, but so far the society has preferred to elect Dr. Dutton
to this position.

In these days of enforced combinations for economy there is no reason why such societies of
health should not multiply, to the manifest benefit of all parties concerned.

  E.H.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

     The Cossacks: A Tale of the Caucasus in 1852. By Count Leo Tolstoy.
     Translated from the Russian by Eugene Schuyler. New York: Charles
     Scribner's Sons.

Russian novels, to judge from the specimens that have been presented to English readers, are
prose poems rather than novels in the English sense of the word, dealing more with poetic phases
than with those details and events of ordinary life which go to make up English and American
novels of the better class. With whatever elaboration of plot or the reverse, they are distinctly
artistic compositions, in which every part is in unison with a dominant idea, and their effect,
not being scattered or diluted, is single and more or less forcible. Their method is the reverse
of analytical. Nothing, for example, could be further from the pregnant sentences, the exhaustive
analysis, of George Eliot, whose books are freighted with the accumulated and ever-accumulating
wisdom of a life, than the poetic suggestiveness of Tourgueneff's creations, in which a wealth
of material is sacrificed to artistic perfection, and the highest thought often seems to lie
between the lines. George Eliot lays bare the innermost souls of her characters--we enter fully
into their lives and thoughts: with Tourgueneff's it is left to a glance of the eye, a few
passionate words, to reveal the mind within. In The Cossacks this absence of analysis is still
more apparent. It is a picture of a curious and simple race, painted, not from within, but
from the outside or Russian point of view. But here is no refining, no affectation of pastoral
simplicity. The Cossacks is distinctly a primitive poem, one which can scarcely be classed
either as idyl or epic, though, in spite of its scenes being mainly rural, it perhaps approaches
more nearly to the epic. There is an Homeric simplicity in its descriptions of half-drunken
warriors with their superb physique, their bravado, their native dignity and singleness of
character. Marianka, the beautiful heroine, passes from one picture to another in her quiet,
regular toil. Whether, clad in a loose skirt of pink cotton, she drives the oxen or piles the
kizyak or dung-fuel along the fence with her hoe, or in holiday attire mingles with other girls
at evening, she is always a subject for the artist's brush. What thoughts occupied this stately
figure, in what way ideas circulated in her kerchiefed head, we are left to divine. Her conduct
is a little enigmatical. Had she any thought of marrying Olenin, or were her actions dictated
by coquetry accompanied by a spice of mischief? We are inclined to the latter opinion.

The story of The Cossacks exhibits a close similarity to that of a recent English (or rather
Irish) novel, The Hon. Miss Ferrard. Both books transport a man of culture to the midst of
a rude and more or less primitive people: in each, the hero, smitten with the beauty of a native
girl (and in Olenin's case with the wild freshness of the life), is seized with a desire to
throw off his old life, with its polish, its intellectual disappointments and its limitations,
and become a primitive man among primitive men. In both, the moral and end are substantially
the same. The girl's affections are bestowed naturally in her own class, and the disconsolate
urban discovers that a wide divergence of feelings and sympathies, a gulf not to be voluntarily
bridged over, lies between the man of the world and the illiterate peasant; that the results
of habit are not lightly to be got rid of; and that a happiness which lies below us in the
social scale may be as unattainable as higher prizes. The relations of the romantic and dreamy
Olenin to his barbaric neighbors are finely portrayed. Nothing could be more natural than his
presenting the young Cossack Lukashka with a horse in a fit of generous enthusiasm, and the
latter's astonished and suspicious reception of the gift. Being utterly unable to divine its
motive, he suspects some lurking design of evil, and regards the generosity as a deceit practised
upon him.

But any comparison with an English book would but faintly illustrate The Cossacks. In the novelty
of its scenes and characters, in its poetic simplicity of form and its unconscious picturesqueness,
it is widely different from anything in our literature. It has a certain coldness, the coldness
of an epic; for passion, though not lacking, is kept in abeyance in its pages, which are indeed
chiefly filled with pictures, a set of literary chef d'oeuvres, drawn with great power and
vividness and full, of color and poetic feeling. That the book should produce such an impression
in a translation so uncouth and blundering as Mr. Schuyler has given us is a strong testimony
to its merit. It is usually thought that a translator ought to be tolerably familiar with two
languages, but readers of The Cossacks will be forced to doubt if Mr. Schuyler is acquainted
with one.

     Molly Bawn: A Novel. By the author of "Phyllis." Philadelphia: J.
     B. Lippincott & Co.

Molly Bawn disarms criticism by its exuberant gayety, its lusciousness of description, its
imperturbable good-humor and self-satisfaction, and its utter absence of responsibility. What
can an auld critic do wi' a young book? And such a very young book!--so full of sweets and
prettinesses, of audacious coquetries, and of jokes delivered with such a simple and fatuous
joy that the meed of our laughter cannot be denied them! If we were to suggest that there is
rather a surfeit of these good things, our objection would be liable to be set aside as the
acrid cavilling of one whose taste for sweetmeats has been vitiated by dyspeptic tendencies.
We can only recommend the book with hearty good-will to those whose sweet tooth still preserves
its enamel, congratulating them upon the acquisition of a novel which may be read without any
of those harassing perplexities or dismal ideas in which petulant authors embroil our tender
susceptibilities--a novel in which the utmost pathos is in the little poutings of true lovers;
in which kissing goes by favor, and favor is lavishly distributed; in which ugliness is the
only crime, and virtue, or rather beauty (which is the same thing), is unfailingly triumphant.
The stock scenery and properties, together with the usual characters of a society novel appear
in Molly Bawn; and the personages are invested, if not with the divine gift of life, with a
certain wire-strung movement which does not lack vivacity, and in some cases novelty; the villain,
for example, having but little employment in his original capacity, and being utilized as a
laughing-stock for the amusement of his victims. Even the grammar of the book can hardly be
taken au sérieux. It exhibits a serene carelessness of rules, with a tendency to bulls which
suggests that the heroine's nationality is also that of the author. A sentence in which we
are told of a house that it is "larger, at first sight, than it in reality is," strikes a blow
at the very essence of things, and those much-abused words will and would usurp the place of
their relatives, shall and should, with a uniformity that proves the absence of negligence.

     Samuel Johnson. By Leslie Stephen. (English Men of Letters, edited
     by John Morley.) New York: Harper & Brothers.

