There, he said, he must take another train for El Paso, and from El Paso he must go a distance
of twenty miles to the ranch, which lay close to the border of Mexico, on the Rio Grande.

"But you," he said, quietly, "you can keep straight along in the train we'll get into at Chicago
till you come to Los Angeles. There'll be time in Chicago to buy your ticket to California,
and I can write letters of introduction. They'll be to good people. You needn't be afraid."

Yet Annesley was afraid, deathly afraid. Not that Knight's friends would not be "good people,"
but of going on alone to an unknown place in an unknown country. It would not have been so
terrible, she thought, to have stayed in New York--if only the Waldos hadn't interfered. But
to have this man--who, after all, was her one link with the old world--get out of the train
which was hurling them through space and leave her to go on alone!

That was a fearful thing. She could not face the thought--at least not yet. Perhaps she would
feel more courageous to-morrow. On the ship she had slept little. Her nerves felt like violin
strings stretched too tight--stretched to the point of breaking.

"Does that plan suit you--as well as any other?" Knight was asking.

"I--can't decide yet," the girl answered; and to keep tears back seemed the most important
thing just then. "It doesn't matter, does it, as I must go on past Kansas City?"

"No, it doesn't matter," Knight agreed. "You've plenty of time. I suppose you'd like me to
leave you now, to rest till dinner time? Here's the guide-book. You might care to look it over."

But when he had gone Annesley let the book lie unopened on the seat. She was very tired. She
could not think far ahead. Her mind would occupy itself with the features of the journey, not
with her own affairs.

Everything was strange and new. Even the train was wonderful. She had thought, in the immense
station, that the cars looked like a procession of splendidly built bungalows each painted
a different colour and having brightly polished metal balconies at the end. And inside, the
car was still like a bungalow, or perhaps a houseboat, with neat little panelled rooms opening
all the way down a long aisle.

The coffee-coloured porter and maid were delightful. They smiled at her kindly, and when they
smiled it seemed sadder than ever not to be happy.

The Masons' talk at dinner was disconcerting. They took it for granted that she and Knight
were an adoring newly married couple, like themselves. Annesley was thankful to escape, and
to go to bed in her little panelled room.

"To-morrow, when I'm rested, things will be easier," she told herself.

But to-morrow came and she was not rested; for again she had not slept.

In Chicago there were hours to wait before train time. The Masons proposed taking a motor-car
to see the sights, and lunching together at a famous Chinese restaurant.

At a sign from her, Knight consented. It was better to be with the Masons than with him alone.
After luncheon, however, Knight drew her aside.

"What about Los Angeles?" he inquired. "Have you decided?"

Annesley felt incapable of deciding anything, and her unhappy face betrayed her state of mind.

"If you'd rather think it over longer," he said, "I can buy your ticket at Albuquerque."

"Very well," Annesley replied. She did not remember where Albuquerque was, though Knight had
pointed it out on the map; and she did not care to remember. All she wanted was not to decide then.

Knight turned away without speaking. But there was a look almost of hope in his eyes. Things
could not be what they had been; yet they were better than they might be.

At Kansas City the Masons bade the Nelson Smiths good-bye. And from that moment the Nelson
Smiths ceased to exist. There were no initials on their luggage.

The man kept to his own stateroom. Annesley, alone next door, had plenty of books to read,
parting gifts from the Waldos; but the most engrossing novel ever written could not have held
her attention. The landscape changed kaleidoscopically. She wondered when they would arrive
at Albuquerque, wondered, yet did not want to know.

"Would you rather go to the dining car alone, or have me take you?" Knight came to ask.

"It's better to go together, or people may think it strange," she said. Even as she spoke she
wondered at herself. The Masons having gone, the other travellers--strangers whom they would
not meet again--were not of much importance. Yet she let her words pass. And at dinner that
evening she forced herself to ask, "Do we get to Albuquerque to-night?"

"Not till to-morrow forenoon," Knight informed her casually. He feared for a moment that she
might say she could not wait so long before making up her mind; but she only looked startled,
opened her lips as if to speak, and closed them again.

Next day there were no more apple orchards and flat or rolling meadow lands. The train had
brought them into another world, a world unlike anything that Annesley had seen before. At
the stations were flat-faced, half-breed Indians and Mexicans; some poorly clad, others gaily
dressed, with big straw hats painted with flowers, and green leggings laced with faded gold.
In the distance were hills and mountains, and the train ran through stretches of red desert
sprinkled with rough grass, or cleft with river-beds, where golden sands played over by winds
were ruffled into little waves.

Toward noon Knight showed himself at the open door of the stateroom.

"We'll be in Albuquerque before long now," he announced. "That's where I change, you know,
for Texas. The train stops for a while, and I can get your ticket for Los Angeles. Those letters
of introduction I told you about are ready. I've left a blank for your name. I suppose you've
made up your mind what you want to do?"

Some people with handbags pushed past, and Knight had to step into the room to avoid them.
The moment, long delayed, was upon her!

Annesley remembered how she had put off deciding whether or not to sail for America with Knight.
Now a still more formidable decision was before her and had to be faced. She glanced up at
the tall, standing figure. Knight was not looking at her. His eyes were on the desert landscape
flying past the windows.

"What I want to do!" she echoed. "There's nothing in this world that I want to do."

"Then"--and Knight did not take his eyes from the window--"why not drift?"

"Drift?"

"Yes. To Texas. Oh, I know! I asked you that before, and you said you wouldn't. But hasn't
destiny decided? Would it have sent you these thousands of miles with me unless it meant you
to fight it out on those lines? You've travelled far enough, side by side with me, to learn
that a man and a woman with only a thin wall between them can be as far apart as if they were
separated by a continent.

"Now, this minute, you've got to decide. It isn't I who tell you so. It's fate. Will you go
on alone from the place we're coming to, or--will you try the thin wall?"

CHAPTER XXIV

THE ANNIVERSARY

The girl felt as if some great flood were sweeping her off her feet. She clutched mechanically
at anything to save herself. Knight was there. He stood between her and desolation; but if
he had spoken then--if he had said he wanted her, and begged her to stay, she would have chosen
desolation.

Instead, he was silent, his eyes not on her, but on the desert.

"You--swear you will let me live my own life?" she faltered.

"I swear I will let you live your own life."

He repeated her words, as he had repeated the words of the clergyman who had, according to
the law of God, given "this woman to this man."

The train was stopping.

Annesley knew that she could not go on alone.

"I will try--Texas," she said in final decision.

       *       *       *       *       *

Las Cruces Ranch was named, not after the New Mexico town thirty or forty miles away, but in
honour of the Holy Crosses which had rested there one night, centuries ago, while on a sacred
pilgrimage.

It was a lonely ranch, as far from El Paso in Texas as it was from the namesake town in New
Mexico. Even the nearest village, a huddled collection of low adobe houses and wooden shacks
on the Rio Grande ("Furious River," as the Indians called it), was ten miles distant. Only
the river was near, as the word "near" is used in that land of vast spaces. At night, if a
great wind blew, Annesley fancied she could hear the voice of the rushing water.

When she first saw the place where she had bound herself to live, her heart sank. It seemed
that she would not be able to support the loneliness; for it would be desperately lonely to
live there, lacking the companionship of someone dearly loved. But afterward--afterward she
could no more analyze her feeling for the country than for the man who had brought her to it.

Lonely as she was, she was never homesick. Indeed, she had no home to long for, no one whose
love called her back to the old world. And she was glad that there were no neighbours to come,
to call her "Mrs. Donaldson" and ask questions about England.

She had nobody except the Mexican servant woman and the cowboys who stayed with the new rancher
when the old one went away.

Knight had suggested that she should wait in El Paso until he had seen whether the house was
habitable for her, and had made it so, if it were not already. But Annesley had chosen to begin
her new life without delay, for she was in a mood where hardships seemed of no importance.
It was only when she had to face them in their sordid nakedness that she shrank.

Yet, after all, what did it matter? If she had stepped into the most luxurious surroundings
she would have been no less unhappy.

The low house was of adobe, plastered white, but stained and battered where the walls were
not hidden by rank-growing creepers, convolvulus, and Madeira vines. If the girl had read its
description in some book--the veranda, formed by the steep-sloping roof of the one-story building;
the patio, walled mysteriously in with a high, flower-draped barrier; the long windows with
green shutters--she would have imagined it to be picturesque.

But it was not picturesque. It was only shabby and uninviting; at least that was her impression
when she arrived, toward evening, after a long, jolting drive in a hired motor-car.

The paintless wooden balustrade and flooring of the veranda were broken. So also were the faded
green shutters. The patio was but a little square of dust and stringy grass. A few dilapidated
chairs stood about, homemade looking chairs with concave seats of worn cowskin.

Inside the house there was little furniture, and what there was struck Annesley as hideous.
Nothing was whole. Everything was falling to pieces. Illustrations cut out of newspapers were
pasted on the dirty, whitewashed walls.

The slatternly servant, who could speak only "Mex," had got no supper ready. Knight would let
Annesley do nothing, but he deftly helped the woman to fry some eggs and make coffee. He tried
to find dishes which were not cracked or broken, and could not.

If he and Annesley had loved each other, or had even been friends, they would have laughed
and enjoyed the adventure. But Annesley had no heart for laughter. She could only smile a frozen,
polite little smile, and say that it "did not matter. Everything would do very well." She would
soon get used to the place, and learn how to get on.

When she had to speak to Knight she called him "you." There was no other name which she could
bear to use. He had had too many names in the past!

As time went on, however, the girl surprised herself by not being able to hate her home. She
found mysteriously lovely colours in the yellow-gray desert; shadows blue as lupines and purple
as Russian violets; high lights of shimmering, pale gold.

Spanish bayonets, straight and sharp as enchanted swords which had magically flowered, lilied
the desert stretches, and there were strange red blossoms like drops of blood clinging to the
points of long daggers. Bird of Paradise plants were there, too, well named for their plumy
splendour of crimson, white, and yellow; and as the spring advanced the China trees brought
memories of English lilacs.

The air was sweet with the scent of locust blossoms, and along the clear horizon fantastically
formed mountains seemed to float like changing cloud-shapes.

The cattle, which Knight had bought from the departing rancher, had their corrals and scanty
pastures far from the house, but the cowboys' quarters were near, and Annesley never tired
of seeing the laughing young men mount and ride their slim, nervous horses.

This fact they got to know, and performed incredible antics to excite her admiration. They
thought her beautiful, and wondered if she had lost someone whom she loved, that she should
look so cold and sad.

These men, though she seldom spoke to any, were a comfort to Annesley. Without their shouts
and rough jokes and laughter the place would have been gloomy as a grave.

There was a colony of prairie dogs which she could visit by taking a long walk, and they, too,
were comforting. It was Knight who told her of the creatures and where to seek them; but he
did not show her the way.

If things had been well between them, the man's anxiety to please her would have been adorable
to Annesley. As soon as he saw the deficiencies of the house, he went himself to El Paso to
choose furniture and pretty simple chintzes, old-fashioned china and delicate glass, bedroom
and table damask. He ordered books also, and subscribed for magazines and papers.

Returning, he said nothing of what he had done, for he hoped that the surprise might prick
the girl to interest, rousing her from the lethargy which had settled over her like a fog.
But her gratitude was perfunctory. She was always polite, but the pretty things seemed to give
her no real pleasure.

Knight had to realize that she was one of those people who, when inwardly unhappy, are almost
incapable of feeling small joys. Such as she had were found in getting away from him as far
as possible.

She practically lived out of doors in the summertime, taking pains to go where he would not
pass on his rounds of the ranch; and even after the sitting room had been made "liveable" with
the new carpet laid by Knight and the chintz curtains he put up with his own hands, she fled
to her room for sanctuary.

Knight's search for capable servants was vain until he picked up a Chinaman from over the Mexican
border, illegal but valuable as a household asset. Under the new régime there was good food,
and Annesley had no work save the hopeless task of finding happiness.

It was easy to see from the white, set look of her face as the monotonous months dragged on
that she was no nearer to accomplishing that task than on the day of her arrival. Nothing that
Knight could do made any difference. When an upright cottage piano appeared one day, the girl
seemed distressed rather than pleased.

"You shouldn't spend money on me," she said in the gentle, weary way that was becoming habitual.

"It's the 'good fund' money," Knight explained, hastily and almost humbly. "It's growing, you
know. I've struck some fine investments. And I'm going to do well with this ranch. We don't
need to economize. I thought you'd enjoy a piano."

"Thank you. You're very kind," she answered, as if he had been a stranger. "But I'm out of
practice. I hardly feel energy to take it up again."

His hopes of what Texas might do for her faded slowly; and even when their fire had died under
cooling ashes, his silent, unobtrusive care never relaxed.

Only the deepest love--such love as can remake a man's whole nature--could have been strong
enough to bear the strain.

But Annesley, blinded by the anguish which never ceased to ache, did not see that it was possible
for such a nature to change. She who had believed passionately in her hero of romance was stripped
of all belief in him now, as a young tree in blossom is stripped of its delicate bloom by an
icy wind. Not believing in him, neither did she believe in his love.

She thought that he was sorry for her, that he was grateful for what she had done to help him;
that perhaps for the time being he intended to "turn over a new leaf," not really for her sake,
but because he had been in danger of being found out.

Scornfully she told herself that this pretence at ranching was one of the many adventures dotted
along his career; one act in the melodrama of which he delighted to be the leading actor. His
own love of luxury and charming surroundings was enough to account for the improvements he
hastened to make at the ranchhouse.

Anxiously she put away the thought that all he did was for her. She did not wish to accept
it. She did not want the obligation of gratitude. It even seemed puerile that he should attempt
to make up for spoiling her life by supplying a few easy chairs and pictures and a Chinese cook.

"He likes the things himself and can't live without them," she insisted. And it was to show
him that he could not atone in such childish ways that she lived out of doors or hid in her
own room.

At first she locked the door of that room when she entered, thinking of it defiantly as her
fortress which must be defended. But when weeks grew into months and the enemy never attacked
the fortress her vigilance relaxed. She forgot to lock the door.

Summer passed. Autumn and then winter came. Knight was a good deal away, for he had bought
an interest in a newly opened copper mine in the Organ Mountains, and was interested in the
development which might mean fortune. At night, however, he came back in the second-hand motor-car
which he had got at a bargain price in El Paso, and drove himself.

Annesley never failed to hear him return, though she gave no sign. And sometimes she would
peep through the slats of her green shutters on one side of the patio at the windows of his
bedroom and "office," which were opposite. It was seldom that his light did not burn late,
and Annesley went to bed thinking hard thoughts, asking herself what schemes of new adventure
he might be plotting for the day when he should tire of the ranch.

Often she wondered that her life was not more hateful than it was; for somehow it was not hateful.
Texas, with its vast spaces and blowing gusts of ozone, had begun to mean more for her than
her cold reserve let Knight guess, more than she herself could understand.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Christmas morning, when she opened her bedroom door, she almost stumbled over a covered
Mexican basket of woven coloured straws. Something inside it moved and sighed.

She stooped, lifted the cover, and saw, curled up on a bit of red blanketing, a miniature Chihuahua
dog. It had a body as slight and shivering as a tendril of grapevine; a tiny pointed face,
with a high forehead and immense, almost human eyes.

At sight of her a thread of tail wagged, and Annesley felt a warm impulse of affection toward
the little creature. Of course it was a present from Knight, though there was no word to tell
her so; and if the dog had not looked at her with an offer of all its love and self she would
perhaps have refused to accept it rather than encourage the giving of gifts.

But after that look she could not let the animal go. Its possession made life warmer; and it
was good to see it lying in front of her open fire of mesquite roots.

She had no Christmas gift for Knight.

He had made, soon after their coming to the ranch, a cactus fence round the house enclosure;
and seeing the dry ugliness of the long, straight sticks placed close together, Annesley disliked
and wondered at it. At last she questioned Knight, and complained that the bristly barrier
was an eyesore. She wished it might be taken down.

"Wait till spring," he answered. "It isn't a barrier; it's an allegory. Maybe when you see
what happens you'll understand. Maybe you won't. It depends on your own feelings."

Annesley said no more, but she did not forget. She thought, if her understanding of the allegory
meant any change of feeling which the man might be looking for in her, she would never understand.
She hated to look at the line of stark, naked sticks, but they, and the "allegory" they represented,
constantly recurred to her mind.

One day in spring she noticed that the sticks looked less dry. Knob-like buds had broken out
upon them, the first sign that they were living things. It happened to be Easter eve, and she
was restless, full of strange thoughts as the yellow-flowering grease-wood bushes were full
of rushing sap.

A year ago that night her love for her husband had died its sudden, tragic death. In the very
act of forgiveness, forgiveness had been killed.

Knight had gone off early that morning in his motor-car, the poor car which was a pathetic
contrast to the glories of last year in England. He had gone before she was up, and had mentioned
to the Chinese cook that he might not be back until late.

"That means after midnight," she told herself; and since she was free as air, she decided to
take a long walk in the afternoon, as far as the river. It seemed that if she stayed in the
house the thought of life as it might have been and life as it was would kill her on this day
of all other days.

"I wish I could die!" she said. "But not here. Somewhere a long way off from everyone--and
from him."

As she passed the cactus fence the buds were big.

Across the river, where the water flowed high and wide just then, lay Mexico. Annesley had
never been there, though she could easily have gone, had she wished, from the ranch to El Paso,
and from El Paso to the queer old historic town of Juarez. But she could not have gone without
Knight, and there was no pleasure in travelling with him.

Besides, there was trouble across the border, and fierce fighting now and then. There had been
some thievish raids made by Mexicans upon ranches along the river not many miles away, and
that reminded her how Knight had remarked some weeks ago that she had better not go alone as
far as the river bank.

"It isn't likely that anything would happen by day," he said, "but you might be shot at from
the other side." Annesley was not afraid, and there was a faint stirring of pleasure in the
thought that she was doing something against his wish on this anniversary. Deliberately, she
sat alone by the river, waiting for the pageant of sunset to pass; and when she reached home
the moon was up, a great white moon that turned the waving waste of pale, sparse grasses to
a silver sea.

She had taken sandwiches and fruit with her, telling the cook that she would want no dinner
when she came back. Away in the cow-punchers' quarters there was music, and she flung herself
into a hammock on the veranda, to rest and listen.

There was a soft yet cool wind from the south, bringing the fragrance of creosote blossoms,
and it seemed to the girl that never had she seen such white floods of moonlight, not even
that night a year ago at Valley House.

Even the sky was milk-white. There were no black shadows anywhere, only dove-gray ones, except
under the veranda roof. Her hammock was screened from the light by one dark shadow, like a
straight-hung curtain. Save for the music of a fiddle and men's voices, the silver-white world
lay silent in enchanted sleep.

Then suddenly something moved. A tall, dark figure was coming to the veranda. It paused at
the cactus fence.

Could it be Knight, home already and on foot? No, it was a woman.

She walked straight and fast and unhesitating to the veranda, where she sat down on the steps.

Annesley raised herself on her elbow, and peered out of the concealing shadow. Who could the
woman be? It was on the tip of her tongue to call, "Who are you?" when a sudden lifting of
the bent face under a drooping hat brought it beneath the searchlight of the moon.

The woman was the Countess de Santiago, and the moon's radiance so lit her dark eyes that she
seemed to look straight at Annesley in her hammock. The girl's heart gave a leap of some emotion
like fear, yet not fear. She did not stop to analyze it, but she knew that she wished to escape
from the woman; and an instant's reflection told her that she could not be seen if she kept still.

She began to think quickly, and her thoughts, confused at first, straightened themselves out
like threads disentangled from a knot.

The woman had marched up to the veranda with such unfaltering certainty that it seemed she
must have been there before. Perhaps she had arrived while the mistress of the house was out,
and had been walking about the place, to pass away the time.

"But she hasn't come to see me," the girl in the hammock thought. "She has come to see Knight.
It's for him she is waiting."

Anger stirred in Annesley's heart, anger against Knight as well as against Madalena.

"Has he written and told her to come?" she asked herself. "Does she think she can stay in this
house? No, she shall not! I won't have her here!"

She was half-minded to rise abruptly and surprise the Countess, as the Countess had surprised
her; to ask why she had come, and to show that she was not welcome. But if Madalena were here
at Knight's invitation she would stay. There would be a scene perhaps. The thought was revolting.
Annesley lay still; and in the distance she heard the throbbing of a motor.

CHAPTER XXV

THE ALLEGORY

Annesley knew that Knight was in the habit of coming home that way, in order not to disturb
her with the noise of the car if she had gone to bed. If he were bringing parcels from the
little mining town, he drove to the house, left the packets, and ran the auto to a shanty he
had rigged up for a garage.

A few seconds later the small open car came into sight, and Madalena sprang up, waving a dark
veil she had snatched off her hat. She feared, no doubt, that the man might take another direction
and perhaps get into the house by some door she did not know before she could intercept him.
From a little distance the tall figure standing on the veranda steps must have been silhouetted
black against the white wall of the house, clearly to be seen from the advancing motor.

Quick as a bird in flight the car sped along the road, wheeled on to the stiff grass, and drew
up close to the veranda steps.

"Good heavens, Madalena!" Annesley heard her husband exclaim. "I thought it was my wife, and
that something had gone wrong."

The surprise sharpening his tone did away with the doubt in the mind of the hidden listener.
She had said to herself that the woman was here by appointment, and that this hour had been
chosen because the meeting was to be secret.

"I wanted you to think so, and to come straight to this place," returned the once familiar
voice. "Don, I've travelled from San Francisco to see you. Do say you are glad!"

"I can't," the man answered. "I'm not glad. You tried to ruin me. You tried in a coward's way.
You struck me in the back. I hoped never to see you again. How did you find me?"

"I've known for a long time that you were in Texas," said Madalena. "Lady Annesley-Seton and
I kept up a correspondence for months after you--sent me away so cruelly, in such a hurry,
believing hateful things, though you had no proof. She wrote that 'Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Smith'
would probably never come back to England to settle, as she'd heard from a Mrs. Waldo that
they'd gone to live in Texas. She asked if I knew whether 'Nelson Smith' had lost his money.
I forgot to answer that question when I answered the letter. But when she said 'Texas' I felt
sure you must be somewhere in this part. I remembered your telling me about the ranch that
consumptive gambler left to you on the Mexican frontier."

"What a fool I was to tell you!" Knight exclaimed, roughly.

The words and his way of flinging them at her were like a box on the ear; and Annesley, lying
in her hammock, heard with a thrill of pleasure. She was ashamed of the thrill, and ashamed
(because suddenly awakened to the realization) that she was eavesdropping.

But it seemed impossible that she should break in upon this talk and reveal her presence. She
felt that she could not do it; though, searching her conscience, she was not sure whether she
clung to silence because it was the lesser of two evils or because she longed with a terrible
longing to know whether these two would patch up their old partnership.

"If you knew why I have come all these miles, maybe you would not be so hard," Madalena pleaded.

"That I can't tell until I do hear," said Knight, dryly.

"I am going to explain," she tried to soothe him. "A great thing has happened. I can be rich
and live easily all the rest of my years if I choose. But--I wanted to see you before deciding.

"I arrived in El Paso yesterday, and went to the Paso del Norte Hotel, to inquire about you.
I was almost certain you would have taken back your own name, because I knew you used to be
known by it when you stayed in Texas. I soon found out that I'd guessed right. I heard you'd
stopped at that hotel last year on the way to your ranch. I hired a motor-car and came here
to-day; but I didn't let the man bring me to the house. I didn't want to dash up and advertise
myself.

"I questioned some of your cowmen. They said you'd gone off, and would be getting back at night
in your automobile, not earlier than ten and maybe a good deal later. So I waited. The car
I hired is a covered one, and I sat in it, a long way from the house out of sight behind a
little rising of the land. Perhaps you call it a hill."

"We do," said Knight.

"I brought some food and wine. The chauffeur's there with the car now. He has cigarettes, and
doesn't mind if we stay all night."

"I mind," Knight cut her short. "You can't stay all night. The road's good enough with such
a moon for you to get back to El Paso. You'd better start so as to reach there before she sets."

"Wait till you hear why I've come before you advise me to hurry!" the Countess protested. "There's
no danger of our being disturbed, is there? Where is your wife?"

"In bed and asleep, I trust."

"I'm glad. Then will you sit on the top of these steps in this heavenly moonlight and let me
tell you things that are important to me? Perhaps you may think they are important to you as
well. Who knows?"

"I know. Nothing you can have to say will be important to me. I won't sit down, thank you.
I've been sitting in my car for hours. I prefer to stand."

"Very well. But--how hard you are! Even now, you won't believe I was innocent of that thing
you accused me of doing?"

"I think now what I thought then. You were not innocent, but guilty. You were just a plain,
ordinary sneak, Madalena, because you were jealous and spiteful."

"It is not true! Spiteful against you! It was never in my heart to lie. Jealous, perhaps. But
that is not to say I wrote the letter you believe I wrote. You didn't give me time to try and
prove I did not write the letter. You accused me brutally. You ordered me out of England, with
threats. I obeyed because I was heartbroken, not because I was afraid."

"Why trouble to excuse yourself?" he asked. "It's not worth the time it takes. If you've come
to tell me anything in particular, tell it, and let's make an end."

"I have an offer of marriage from a millionaire," the Countess announced in a clear, triumphant
tone.

"Which no doubt you accepted, not to say snapped at."

"Not yet. I put him off, because I wanted to see you before I answered."

"You flatter me!" Knight laughed, not pleasantly. "If you've come from San Francisco to get
my advice on that subject, I can give it while you count three. Make sure of the unfortunate
wretch before he changes his mind."

"Ah, if I could think that your harshness comes from just a little--ever so little, jealousy!"
Madalena sighed. "He won't change his mind. There is no danger. He is old, and I seem a young
girl to him. He adores me. He is on his knees!"

"Bad for rheumatism!"

"He thinks I am the most wonderful creature who ever lived. I met him through my work. He came
from a friend of his who told him about my crystal, and about me, too."

"You are still working the crystal?"

"But, of course! It has always given me the path to success. If I marry this man I shall be
able to rest."

"On your laurels--such as they are!"

"On his money. He can't live many years."

"You are an affectionate fiancée!"

"I am not a fiancée yet. Not till I give my answer. And that depends on you.... Oh, Don, surely
you must be sick of this--this existence, for it is not life! I know you are angry with me,
but you can't hate me really. It is not possible for a man with blood in his body to hate a
woman who loves him as I love you.

"I have tried to get over it. At first I thought I was succeeding. But no, when the reaction
came, I found that I cared more than ever. We were born for each other. It must be so, for
without you I am only half alive. I haven't come for your advice, Don, but to make you an offer.
Oh, not an offer of myself. I should not dare, as you feel now. And it is not an offer from
me only; it is from a great person who has something to give which is worth your accepting,
even if my love is not!"

"You've got in touch with him, have you?" Knight broke into the rushing torrent of her words
as a man might take a plunge into a cataract.

"Why not?" she answered. "I didn't seek him out. It was he who sought me."

"You don't know how to speak the truth, Madalena! You said you found me through Lady Annesley-Seton
hearing from Mrs. Waldo, whereas you wrote to Paul Van Vreck."

"You do me injustice--always! I did hear from Constance. Then I--merely ventured to write and
ask Mr. Van Vreck if he kept up communication with you, and----"

"You said in your letter to him that you knew where I was, and gave him to understand that
we were in touch with each other, or he would have let out nothing."

"He has written and told you this!" She spoke breathlessly, as if in fear.

"Ah, you give yourself away! No, I haven't heard from Van Vreck since I saw him in New York,
and thought I convinced him that my working days for him were over. I simply guessed--knowing
you--what you would do."

"I may have mentioned Texas," Madalena admitted. "I supposed he knew where you were. I couldn't
have told him, because I didn't know. But he wrote and suggested I should use my influence
with you to reconsider your decision. Those were his words."

"How much has he paid you for coming here?"

"Nothing. As if I would take money for coming to you!"

"You have taken it for some queer things, and will again if you don't settle down to private
life with your millionaire.... It's no use, Madalena. Go back to San Francisco. Send in your
bill to Van Vreck. Tell him there's nothing doing. And make up your mind to marriage."

"But, Don, you haven't heard what he offers."

"It can't be more than he offered me himself when I saw him in New York----"

"It is more. He says that particularly. He raises the offer from last time. It is three times
higher! Think what that means. Oh, Don, it means life, real life, not stagnation! I would give
up safety and a million to be with you--as your partner again, your humble partner.

"Here, on this bleak ranch, it is like death--a death of dullness. I know what you must be
suffering because you are obstinate, because you have taken a resolve, and are determined not
to break it. You are afraid it will be weakness to break it. There can be no other reason.

"I have asked questions about your life here. I have learned things. I know she is cold as
ice. If you stay you will degenerate. You will become a clod.

"Leave this hideous gray place. Leave that woman who treats you like a dog. Let the ranch be
hers. Send her money. You will have it to spare. She can divorce you, and you will be freed
forever from the one great mistake you ever made. As for me----"

"As for you--be silent!" The command struck like a whiplash. "You are not worthy to speak of
'that woman,' as you call her. If I did what you deserve, I'd send you off without another
word--turn my back on you and let you go. But--" he drew in his breath sharply, then went on
as if he had taken some tonic decision--"I want you to understand why, if Paul Van Vreck offered
me all his money, and you offered me the love of all the women on earth with your own, I shouldn't
be tempted to accept.

"It's because of 'that woman'--who is my wife. It may be true that she treats me like a dog,
for she wouldn't be cruel to the meanest cur. But I'd rather be her dog than any other woman's
master.

"So you see now. It's come to that with me. I won her love and married her for my own advantage.
I lost her love because she found me out--through you. Mild justice that, perhaps! But all
the same, getting her for mine has been for my advantage. In a different way from what I planned,
but ten thousand times greater. Though she's taken her love from me, she's given me back my
soul. Nothing can rob me of that so long as I run straight.

"And I tell you, Madalena, this ranch, where I'm working out some kind of expiation and maybe
redemption, is God's earth for me. Now do you understand?"

For an instant the woman was silent. Then she broke into loud sobbing, which she did not try
to check.

"You are a fool, Don!" she wept. "A fool!"

"Maybe. But I'm not the devil's fool as I used to be. Don't cry. You might be heard. Come.
It's time to go. We've said all we have to say to each other except good-bye--if that's not
mockery."

Madalena dried her tears, still sobbing under her breath.

"At least take me to the automobile," she said. "Don't send me off alone in the night. I am
afraid."

"There's nothing to be afraid of," Knight answered, the flame of his fierceness burnt down.
"But I'll go with you, and put you on the way back to El Paso. Come along!"

As he spoke, he started, and Madalena was forced to go with him, forced to keep up with his
long strides if she would not be left behind.

When they had gone Annesley lay motionless, as though she were under a spell. The man's words
to the other woman wove the spell which bound her, listening as they repeated themselves in
her mind. Again and again she heard them, as they had fallen from his lips.

His expiation--perhaps his redemption--here on his bit of "God's earth" ... "It may be true
that she treats me like a dog.... But I'd rather be her dog than any other woman's master...."
And this was Easter eve, a year to the night since his martyrdom began!

Something seemed to seize Annesley by the hand and break the bonds that had held her, something
strong although invisible. She sat up with a faint cry, as of one awakened from a dream, and
slipped out of the hammock. There was a dim idea in her mind that she must go along the road
where they had gone, so as to meet Knight on his way back. She did not know what she should
say to him, or whether she could say anything at all; but the something which had taken her
hand and snatched her out of the hammock dragged her on and on.

At first she obeyed the force blindly.

"I must see him! I must see him!" The words spoke themselves in her head. But when she had
hurried out of the enclosure walled in by the cactus hedge, the brilliant moonlight seemed
to pierce her brain, and make a cold, calm appeal to her reason.

"You can't tell him what you have heard," it said. "He would be humiliated. Or"--the thought
was sharp as a gimlet--"what if he saw you, and knew you were listening? What if he talked
just for effect? He is so clever! He is subtle enough for that. And wouldn't it be more like
the man, than to say what he said sincerely?"

She stopped, and was thankful not to see her husband returning. There was time to go back if
she hurried. And she must hurry! If he had seen her in her hammock, and made that theatrical
attempt to play upon her feelings, he would laugh at his own success if she followed him. And
if he had not seen her, and were in earnest, it would be best--indeed the only right way--not
to let him guess that the scene on the veranda steps had had a witness.

Annesley turned to fly back faster than she had come. But passing the cactus hedge her dress
caught. It was as if the hedge sentiently took hold of her.

She bent down to free the thin white material; and suddenly colour blazed up to her eyes in
the rain of silver moonlight. The buds had opened since she noticed them last.

No longer was the hedge a grim barricade of stiff, dark sticks. Each stalk had turned into
a tall, straight flame of lambent rose. From a dead thing of dreary ugliness it had become
a thing of living beauty.

Knight's allegory!

He had said, perhaps she might understand when the time came; and perhaps not.

She did understand. But she had not faith to believe that the miracle could repeat itself in
life--her life and Knight's. She shut her eyes to the thought, and when she had freed her dress
ran very fast to the house.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE THREE WORDS

Knight was generally far away long before Annesley was up in the morning, and often he did
not come in till evening. She thought that on Easter Day, however, he would perhaps not go
far. She half expected that he would linger about the house or sit reading on the veranda;
and she could not resist the temptation to put on one of the dresses he had liked in England.

It was a little passé and old-fashioned, but he would not know this. What he might remember
was that she had worn it at Valley House.

And the wish to say something, as if accidentally, about the flaming miracle of the cactus
hedge was as persistent in her heart as the desire of a crocus to push through the earth to
the sunshine on a spring morning. She did not know whether the wish would survive the meeting
with her husband. She thought that would depend as much upon him as upon her mood.

But luncheon time came and Knight did not appear.

Annesley lunched alone, in her gray frock. Even on days when Knight was with her, and they
sat through their meals formally, it was the same as if she were alone, for they spoke little,
and each was in the habit of bringing a book to the table.

But she had not meant it to be so on this Easter Day. Even if she did not speak of the blossoming
of the cactus, she had planned to show Knight that she was willing to begin a conversation.
To talk at meals would be a way out of "treating him like a dog."

The pretty frock and the good intention were wasted. Late in the afternoon she heard from one
of the line riders whom she happened to see that something had gone wrong with a windmill which
gave water to the pumps for the cattle, and that her husband was attending to it.

"He's a natural born engineer," said the man, whose business as "line rider" was to keep up
the wire fencing from one end of the ranch to the other. "I don't know how much he knows, but
I know what he can do. Queer thing, ma'am! There don't seem to be much that Mike Donaldson
can't do!"

Annesley smiled to hear Knight called "Mike" by one of his employees. She knew that he was
popular, but never before had she felt personal pleasure in the men's tributes of affection.

To-day she felt a thrill. Her heart was warm with the spring and the miracle of the cactus
hedge, and memories of impetuous--seemingly impetuous--words of last night.

If she could have seen Knight she would have spoken of his allegory; and that small opening
might have let sunlight into their darkness. But he did not come even to dinner; and tired
of waiting, and weary from a sleepless night, she went to bed.

Next morning a man arrived who wished to buy a bunch of Donaldson's cattle, which were beginning
to be famous. He stayed several days; and when he left Knight had business at the copper mine--business
that concerned the sinking of a new shaft, which took him back and forth nearly every day for
a week. By and by the cactus flowers began to fade, and Annesley had never found an opportunity
of mentioning them, or what they might signify.

When she met Knight his manner was as usual: kind, unobtrusive, slightly stiff, as though he
were embarrassed--though he never showed signs of embarrassment with any one else. She could
hardly believe that she had not dreamed those words overheard in the moonlight.

Week after week slipped away. The one excitement at Las Cruces Ranch was the fighting across
the border; the great "scare" at El Paso, and the stories of small yet sometimes tragic raids
made by bands of cattle stealers upon American ranches which touched the Rio Grande. The water
was low. This made private marauding expeditions easier, and the men of Las Cruces Ranch were
prepared for anything.

       *       *       *       *       *

One night in May there was a sandstorm, which as usual played strange tricks with Annesley's
nerves. She could never grow used to these storms, and the moaning of the hot wind seemed to
her a voice that wailed for coming trouble. Knight had been away on one of his motoring expeditions
to the Organ Mountains, and though he had told the Chinese boy that he would be back for dinner,
he did not come. Doors and windows were closed against the blowing sand, but they could not
shut out the voice of the wind.

After dinner Annesley tried to read a new book from the library at El Paso, but between her
eyes and the printed page would float the picture of a small, open automobile and its driver
lost in clouds of yellow sand.

Why should she care? The man was used to roughing it. He liked adventures. He was afraid of
nothing, and nothing ever hurt him. But she did care. She seemed to feel the sting of the sharp
grains of sand on cheeks and eyes.

She was sitting in her own room, as she was accustomed to do in the evening if she were not
out on the veranda--the pretty room which Knight had extravagantly made possible for her, with
chintzes and furnishings from the best shops in El Paso. On this evening, however, she set
both doors wide open, one which led into the living room, another leading into a corridor or
hall. She could not fail to hear her husband when he came, even if he left his noisy car at
the garage and walked to the house.

A travelling clock on the mantelpiece--Constance Annesley-Seton's gift--struck nine. The girl
looked up at the first stroke, wondering if serious accidents were likely to happen in sandstorms;
and before the last note had ended she heard steps in the patio.

"He has come!" she thought, with a throb of relief which shamed her. But the step was not like
Knight's. It was hurried and nervous; and as she told herself this there sounded a loud knock
at the door.

There was an electric bell, which Knight had fitted up with his own hands, but it was not visible
at night. No one except herself could hear this knocking, for the servants' quarters were at
the far end of the bungalow. A little frightened, recalling stories of cattle thieves and things
they had done, Annesley went into the hall.

"Who is there?" she cried, her face near the closed door, which locked itself in shutting.
If a man's voice--the voice of a stranger--should reply in "Mex," or with a foreign accent,
the girl did not intend to let him in. A man's voice did reply, but neither in "Mex" nor with
a foreign accent. It said: "My name is Paul Van Vreck. Open quickly, please. I may be followed."

Annesley's heart jumped; but without hesitation she pulled back the latch, and as she opened
the door a rush of sand-laden wind wrenched it from her hand. She staggered away as the door
swung free, and there was just time to see a tall, thin figure slip in like a shadow before
the light of the hanging-lamp blew out. The girl and the newcomer were in the dark save for
a yellow ray that filtered into the hall from her room, but she saw him stoop to place a bag
or bundle on the floor, and then, pulling the door to against the wind, slammed it shut with
a click.

Having done this, the tall shadow bent to pick up what it had laid down.

"Thank you, Mrs. Donaldson, for letting me in," said the most charming voice Annesley had ever
heard--more charming even than Knight's. "Evidently you've heard your husband mention me, or
you might have kept me out there parleying, if you're alone, for these are stirring times."

"Yes, I--I've heard you mentioned by--many people," the girl answered, stammering like a nervous
child. "Won't you come in--into the living room? Not the room with the open door. That's mine.
It's another, farther along the hall. I'm sorry my husband's out."

As she talked she wondered at herself. She knew Van Vreck for a super thief. He did not steal
with his own hands, but he commanded other hands to steal, and that was even worse. Or she
had thought it worse in her husband's case, and for more than a year she had punished him for
his sins. Yet here she was almost welcoming this man.

She did not understand why she felt--even without seeing him except as a shadow--that she would
find herself wishing to do whatever he might ask. It must be, she thought, the influence of
his voice. She had heard Paul Van Vreck spoken of as an old man, but the voice was the voice
of magnetic youth.

He opened the door of the living room, and, carrying his bundle, followed her as she entered.
There was only one lamp in this room, a tall reading-lamp with a green silk shade, which stood
on a table, its heavy base surrounded by books and magazines. A good light for reading was
thrown from under the green shade on to the table, but the rest of the room was of a cool,
green dimness; and, looking up with irresistible curiosity at the face of her night visitor,
it floated pale on a vague background, like a portrait by Whistler.

It was unnaturally white, the girl thought, and--yes, it was old! But it was a wonderful face,
and the eyes illumined it; immense eyes, though deepset and looking out of shadowed hollows
under level brows black as ink. Annesley had never seen eyes so like strange jewels, lit from
behind.

That simile came to her, and she smiled, for it was appropriate that this jewel expert should
have jewels for eyes. They were dark topazes, and from them gazed the spirit of the man with
a compelling charm.

Under a rolled-back wave of iron-gray hair he had a broad forehead, high cheekbones, a pointed
prominent chin, a mouth both sweet and humorous, like that of some enchanting woman; but its
sweetness was contradicted by a hawk nose. Had it not been for that nose he would have been
handsome.

"I guessed by the startled tone of your voice, when you asked, 'Who is there?' that your husband
was out," explained the shadow, now transformed by the light into an extremely tall, extremely
thin man in gray travelling clothes. "I had a moment of repentance at troubling a lady alone;
but, you see, the case was urgent."

He had carelessly tossed his Panama hat on to the table, but kept the black bag, which he now
held out with a smile.

"Not a big bag, is it? And so common, it wouldn't be likely to tempt a thief. But it holds
what is worth--if it has a price--about half a million dollars."

"Oh!" exclaimed Annesley. She looked horrified; and through the green gloom the old man read
her face.

"I see!" he said, with a laugh in his young voice. "You have heard the great secret! That makes
another who knows. But I'm not afraid you'll throw me to the dogs. You wouldn't do that even
if you weren't Donaldson's wife. Being his wife, you could not."

"My husband has told me no secret about you, none at all," the girl protested, defending Knight
involuntarily. "I beg you to believe that, Mr. Van Vreck."

"I do believe it. If there's one thing I pride myself on, it's being a judge of character.
That's why I've made a success of life. You wouldn't lie, perhaps not even to save the one
you love best. I believe that he did not tell you the secret. Yet I'm certain you know it.
I suppose other discoveries you must have made gave you supernatural intuition. You guessed."

Annesley did not answer. Yet she could not take her eyes from his.

"You needn't mind confessing. But I won't catechize you. I'll take it for granted that what
Donaldson knows you know--not in detail, in the rough.... In this bag are six gold images set
with precious stones. They are of the time of the Incas, and they've been up till now the most
precious things in Mexico. From now on they will be among the most precious things in Paul
Van Vreck's secret collection.

"Some weeks ago I hoped that Donaldson would get them for me. He refused, so I had to go myself.
I couldn't trust any one else, though the only difficulty was getting to Central Mexico with
Constitutionals raging on one side and Federals on the other. A man promised to deliver the
goods to my messenger. I've been bargaining over these things for years. But, as I said, Don
wouldn't go, so I had to do the job myself. You see, Mrs. Donaldson, your husband is the only
honest man I ever came across."

"Honest!" The exclamation burst from Annesley's lips.

"Yes. Honest is the word. I might add two others: 'true' and 'loyal.'" Paul Van Vreck held
her with his strange, straight look, commanding, yet amused. "That is the opinion," he added
after a pause, "of a very old friend. It's worth its weight in--gold images."

The girl gave him no answer. But the effort of keeping her face under control made lips and
eyelids quiver.

"May I sit down, Mrs. Donaldson?" Van Vreck asked in a tone which changed to commonplaceness--if
his voice could ever be commonplace. "I'm a fugitive, and have had a run for my money, so to
speak. I'm seeking sanctuary. Also I came in the hope of trying my eloquence on Donaldson.
But now I've seen you, I will not do that. In future he's safe from me, I promise you."

"Oh!" Annesley faltered. And then: "Thank you!" came out, grudgingly. How astonishing that
she should thank Paul Van Vreck, the monster of wickedness and secrecy she had pictured, for
"sparing" her husband--her husband whom he called loyal, true, and honest; whom she had called
in her heart a thief!

"Do sit down," she hurried on, hypnotized. "Forgive my not asking you. I----"

"I understand," he soothed her. "I've taken advantage of you--sprung a surprise, as Don would
say, and then turned on the tortures of the Inquisition. Aren't you going to sit? I can't,
you know, if you don't."

"I thought you might like something to eat," the girl stammered. "I could call our cook----"

"No, thank you," replied Van Vreck. "I'm peculiar in more ways than one. I never eat at night.
I live mostly on milk, water, fruit, and nuts. That's why I feel forty at seventy-two. I give
out that I'm frail--an invalid--that I spend much time in nursing homes. This is my joke on
a public which has no business to be curious about my habits. While it thinks I'm recuperating
in a nursing home I--but no matter! That won't interest you."

When she had obediently sat down, her knees trembling a little, Van Vreck drew up a chair for
himself, and, resting his arms on the table, leaned across it gazing at the girl with a queer,
humorous benevolence.

"How soon do you think your husband will come?" he asked, abruptly.

"I don't know," Annesley replied. "He told our Chinese boy he'd be early. I suppose the sandstorm
has delayed him."

"No doubt.... And you're worried?"

"No-o," she answered, looking sidewise at Van Vreck, her face half turned from him. "I don't
think that I'm worried."

"May I talk to you frankly till Don does come?" the old man asked.

"Certainly."

"I'll take you at your word!... Mrs. Donaldson, when your husband called on me a year ago last
spring, in New York, he said nothing about you. I knew he'd married an English girl of good
connections (isn't that what you say on your side?), and why he thought it would be wise to
marry. But when he informed me that our association was to be ended, that nothing would induce
him to continue it, I read between the lines. I'm sharp at that! I knew as well as if he'd
told me that he'd fallen in love with the girl, that she'd unexpectedly become the important
factor in his life, and that--she'd found out a secret she'd never been meant to find out:
his secret, and maybe mine.

"I realized by his face--the look in the eyes, the tone of the voice, or rather, the tonelessness
of the voice--what her finding out meant for Don. I read by all signs that she was making him
suffer atrociously and I owed that girl a grudge. She'd taken him from me. For the first time
a power stronger than mine was at work; and yet, things being as they were, my hope of getting
him back lay in her."

"What do you mean?" The question spoke itself. Annesley's lips felt cold and stiff. Her hands,
nervously clasped in her lap, were cold, too, though the shut-up room had but lately seemed
hot as a furnace.

"I mean, if the girl behaved as I thought she would behave--as I think you have behaved--he
might grow tired of her and the cast-iron coat of virtue he'd put on to please her. He might
grow tired of life on a ranch if his wife made him eat ashes and wear sack-cloth. That was
my hope. Well, I sent a messenger to find out how the land lay a few weeks ago."

"The Countess de Santiago!" Annesley exclaimed.

"He told you?"

"No, I saw her. I--by accident--(it really was by accident!) I heard things. He doesn't know--I
believe he doesn't know--I was there."

"Perhaps that's just as well. Perhaps not. But if I were you I'd tell him when the right time
comes. The Countess wrote me she'd had her journey in vain, and why. She said--spitefully it
struck me--that Don was bewitched by his wife, a cold, cruel creature with ice in her veins,
who treated him like a dog."

"She said that to you, too?"

"Yes, she said that. She seemed to gather the impression. But the dog stuck to his kennel.
Nothing she could do would tempt him to budge. So I decided to call here myself, on the way
back from Mexico. I couldn't delay the trip. A man was waiting for me. And waiting quietly
is difficult in Mexico just now. I got what I wanted, and crammed the lot into this bag, which
cost me at the outside, if I remember, five dollars. A good idea of mine for putting thieves
off the track. They expect sane men to carry nightgowns and newspapers in such bags. I thought
I'd managed so well that I'd put the gang who follow me about, generally on 'spec,' off the track.

"I speak Spanish well. I've been passing for a Mexican lawyer from Chihuahua. But to-day I
caught a look from a pair of eyes in a train. I fancied I'd seen those eyes before--and the
rest of the features. Perhaps I imagined it. But I don't think so. I trust my instinct. I advise
you to! It's a tip.

"At El Paso I bought a ticket for Albuquerque. The eyes were behind me. I got into the train.
So did Eyes, and a friend with a long nose. Not into my car, however, so I was able to skip
out again as the train was starting. Not a bad feat for a man of my age! I hope Eyes and Nose,
and any other features that may have been with them, travelled on unsuspectingly. But I can't
be sure. Instinct says they saw my trick and trumped it.

"I oughtn't to have come here, bringing danger to your house, Mrs. Donaldson. But I want to
see Don, and I know he is afraid neither of man nor devil--afraid of nothing in the world except
one woman.

"As for her--well, what I'd heard hadn't prepossessed me in her favour. I sacrificed her for
the safety of my golden images and my talk with Don. But the sound of your voice behind the
shut door broke the picture I'd made of that young woman. And when I saw you--well, Mrs. Donaldson,
I've already told you I don't intend to exert my influence over your husband, though to do
so was my principal object in coming. Even if I did, I believe yours would prove stronger.
But if I could count on all my old power over him, I wouldn't use it now I have seen you.

"I adore myself, and--my specialties. But there must be an unselfish streak in me which shows
in moments like this. I respect and admire it. You may treat Don like a dog, but he'd never
be happy away from you. And I am fool enough to want him to be happy. This kicked dog of yours,
madame, happens to be the finest fellow I ever knew or expect to know."

"You say I treat him like a dog!" cried Annesley, roused to anger. "But how ought I to treat
him? He came into my life in a way I thought romantic as a fairy tale. It was a trick--a play
got up to deceive me! I knew nothing of his life; but because of the faith he inspired, I believed
in him. No one except himself could have broken that belief. I would not have listened to a
word against him. But when he thought I'd discovered something, the whole story came out. If
I hadn't loved him so much to begin with, and put him on such a high pedestal, the fall wouldn't
have been so great--wouldn't have broken my heart in pieces."

"But Don gave up everything pleasant in his life, and came down here to this God-forsaken ranch--a
man like Michael Donaldson, with a few hundred dollars where he'd had thousands--all for you,"
said Van Vreck, "and he's had no thought except for you and the ranch for more than a year.
Yet apparently you haven't changed your opinion. By Jove, madame, you must somehow, through
your personality and God knows what besides, have got a mighty hold on his heart, in the days
when you loved him, or he wouldn't have stood this dog's life, this punishment too harsh for
human nature to bear. Good Lord, how were you brought up? Evidently not as a Christian."

"My father was a clergyman," said Annesley.

"There are many clergymen who have got as far from the light as the moon from the earth. I
know more about Christianity myself than some of those narrow men with their 'cold Christs
and tangled Trinities'! That is, I know all this on principle. I don't practise what I know,
but that's my affair. Did Don ever excuse himself by mentioning the influence I brought to
bear on him when he was almost a boy?"

"No," breathed Annesley. "He didn't excuse himself at all except to tell me about his father
and mother, and a vow he'd made to revenge them on society."

"It was like him not to whine for your forgiveness."

"He would never whine," the girl agreed. But she remembered that night of confession when on
his knees he had begged her to forgive, to grant him another chance, and she had refused. He
had never asked again. And he had struggled alone for redemption.

"I haven't forgotten some early teachings which impressed me," said Paul Van Vreck. "Christ
made a remark about forgiving till seventy times seven. Did you forgive Donaldson four hundred
and eighty-nine times, and draw the line at the four hundred and ninetieth?"

"No, I never had anything to forgive him--till that one thing came out. But it was a very big
thing. Too big!"

"Too big, eh? There was another saying of Christ's about those without sin throwing the first
stone. Of course I'm sure you were without sin. But you look as if you might have had a heart--once."

"Oh, I had, I had!" Tears streamed down Annesley's pale face, and she did not wipe them away.
"It's dead now I think."

"Think again. Think of what the man is--what he's proved himself to be. He's twice as good
now as one of your best saints of the Church. He's purified by fire. You've got the face of
an angel, Mrs. Donaldson, but in my opinion you're a wicked woman unworthy of the love you've
inspired."

"You speak to me cruelly," the girl said through her tears. "I've been very unhappy!"

"Not as unhappy as you've made Don by your cruelty. Good heavens, these tender girls can be
more cruel when they set about punishing us, than the hardest man! And to punish a fellow like
that by making him live in an ice-house, when you could have done anything with him by a little
kindness! Don't I know that?

"I'm the sponsor for such sins as Don's committed. He was meant to be straight. But I got hold
of him through an agent, and caught his imagination when that wild vow was freshly branded
on his heart or brain. I have the gift of fascination, Mrs. Donaldson. I know that better than
I know most things. You feel it to-night, or you wouldn't sit there letting me tear your heart
to pieces--what's left of your heart. And I have an idea there's a good deal more than you
think, if you have the sense to patch the bits together.

"I have fascination, and I've cultivated it. Napoleon himself didn't study more ardently than
I the art of winning men. I won Don. I appealed to the romance in him. I became his hero and--slowly--I
was able to make him my servant. Not much of my money or anything else has ever stuck to his
hands. He's too generous--too impulsive; though I taught him it was necessary to control his
impulses.

"What he did, he did for love of me, till you came along and lit another sort of fire in his
blood. I saw in one minute, when he called on me, what had happened to his soul. It's taken
you more than a year to see, though he's lived for you and would have died for you. Great Heaven,
young woman, you ought to be on your knees before a miracle of God! Instead, you've mounted
a marble pedestal and worshipped your own purity!"

Annesley bowed her head under a wave of shame. This man, of all others, had shown her a vision
of herself as she was. It seemed that she could never lift her eyes. But suddenly, into the
crying of the wind, a shot broke sharply; then another and another, till the sobbing wail was
lost in a crackling fusillade.

The girl leaped to her feet.

"Raiders!" she gasped. "Or else----"

Paul Van Vreck sprang up also, his face paler, his eyes brighter than before.

"They've come after me," he said. "Clever trick--if they've bribed ruffians from over the border
to cover their ends. The real errand's here, inside this house."

Annesley's heart faltered.

"You must hide," she breathed. "I must save you--somehow."

"Why should you save me?" Van Vreck asked, sharply. "Why not think about saving yourself?"

"Because I know Knight would wish to save you," she answered. "I want to do what he would do....
God help us, they're coming nearer! Take your bag, and I'll hide you in the cellar. There's
a corner there, behind some barrels. If they break in, I'll say----"

"Brave girl! But they won't break in."

"How do you know?"

"Your husband won't let them. Trust him, as I do."

"He's not here. Do you think I told you a lie? Thank Heaven he isn't here, or they'd kill him,
and I could never beg him to forgive----" She covered her face with her hands.

The old man looked at her gravely.

"You don't understand what's happening," he said, with a new gentleness. "Don's out there now,
defending you and his home. That's what the shooting means. Do you think those brutes would
advertise themselves with their guns if they hadn't been attacked?"

With a cry the girl rushed to the long window, and began to unfasten it, but Van Vreck caught
her hands.

"Stop!" he commanded. "Don't play the robbers' own game for them! How do you know which is
nearer the house, Don and his men, or the others?"

She stared at him, panting, "Don and his men?" she echoed.

"Yes. Even if he were alone to begin with, I'll bet all I've got he roused every cowpuncher
on the ranch with his first shot; and they'd be out with their guns like a streak of greased
lightning. If you open that window with a light in the room, the wrong lot may get in and barricade
themselves against Don and his bunch--to say nothing of what would happen to us. But----"

Annesley waited for no more. She ran to the table and blew out the flame of the green-shaded
lamp. Black darkness shut down like the lid of a box. But she knew the room as she knew her
own features. Straight and unerring, she found her way back to the window.

This time Van Vreck stood still while she opened it and began noiselessly to undo the outside
wooden shutters. As she pushed them apart, against the wind, a spray of sand dashed into her
face and Van Vreck's, stinging their eyelids. But disregarding the pain, the two passed out
into the night.

Clouds of blowing sand hid the stars, yet there was a faint glimmer of light which showed moving
figures on horseback. Men were shouting, and with the bark of their guns fire spouted.

Annesley rushed on to the veranda, but Van Vreck caught her dress.

"Stay where you are!" he ordered. "Our side is winning. Don't you see--don't you hear--the
fight's going farther away? That means the raid's failed--the skunks have got the worst of
it. They're trying to get back to the river and across to their own country. There'll be some,
I bet, who'll never see Mexico again!"

"But Knight----" the girl faltered. "He may be shot----"

"He may. We've got to take the chances and hope for the best. He wouldn't leave the chase now
if every door and window were open and lit for him. Wait. Watch. That's the only thing to do."

She yielded to the detaining hand. All strength had gone out of her. She staggered a little,
and fell back against Van Vreck's shoulder. He held her up strongly, as though he had been
a young man.

"How can I live through it?" she moaned.

"You care for him after all, then?" she heard the calm voice asking in her ear. And she heard
her own voice answer: "I love him more than ever." She knew that it was true, true in spite
of everything, and that she had never ceased to love him. It would be joy to give her life
to save Knight's, with just one moment of breath to tell him that his atonement had not been vain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Away out of sight the chase went, but the watching eyes had time to see that not all the figures
were on horseback. Some ran on foot; and some horses were riderless. As Van Vreck had said,
there was nothing for him and for Annesley to do except to wait. They stood silent in the rain
of sand, listening when there was nothing more to see. The shots were scattered and blurred
by distance. Annesley realized how a heart may stop beating in the anguish of suspense.

But at last when the fierce wind, purring like a tiger, was the only sound in the night, there
came a sudden padding of feet. A form stumbled up the veranda steps, and before she could cry
out in her surprise, the girl recognized their Chinese servant.

She had fancied him in bed. But she might have known he would be out!

He had been running so fast that his breath came chokingly.

"What is it?" Annesley implored.

The boy pointed, trying to speak, "Bling Mist' Donal back," he gulped. "Me come tell."

Annesley pushed past him, and springing down the steps ran blindly through the sand cloud,
taking the way by which the Chinese boy must have come home. Her mind pictured a procession
carrying a dead man, or one grievously wounded; but at the cactus hedge she came upon three
men--one in the centre, who limped, two who supported him on either side.

"Why, Anita!" exclaimed her husband's voice.

"Knight!" she sobbed. It was the first time since Easter a year ago that she had given him
the old name.

"Thank God you're alive!"

"If you thank Him, so do I," he answered, whether lightly or gravely she could not tell. His
tone was controlled, as if to hide pain. "It's all right. You mustn't worry any more. Wish
I could have sent you news sooner. I hoped you'd guess we were getting the upper hand when
the shots died away. Coming home I spotted the sneaks fording the river. I turned the car,
and stirred up the boys. Then we had a shindy, and scared the dogs cold--bagged a few, but
I guess nobody croaked--anyhow, none of our crowd. Half a dozen are after the curs.

"As for me, I feel as if I'd got a dum-dum in my ankle, but I'll be fit as a fiddle in a week
or two. I'm afraid you had a fright."

How strange it was to hear him speak so coolly after what she had endured! But his calmness
quieted her.

"Mr. Van Vreck was with me," she said.

"Van Vreck! Great Scott, then the raid was a frameup! I see. Boys, let's get along to the house
quick."

"Wait an instant!" the girl intervened. "Knight, I never had a chance to tell you--about the
cactus blossoms. I understood. I understand even better now. Mr. Van Vreck has made me understand.
That is all I can tell you. Let them help you to the house. I'll follow. Some other time I'll
explain."

"No--now!" he said. "Let go a minute, boys. I can stand by myself. Three words with my wife."

As the two men moved off hastily, Annesley sprang forward, giving her shoulder for her husband's
support.

"Lean on me," she said. "Oh, Knight, you don't need an explanation, for the three words are,
love--love and forgiveness. Forgiveness from you to me."

He held out his arms, and caught her to him fiercely. Neither could speak. The past was forgotten.
Only the present and future counted. Both the man and woman had atoned.