So much in this world depends upon character that attention has to be paid to bad character
even when it is not deserved.  In dealing with men and women, we have to consider what they
believe, as well as what we believe ourselves.  The utility of a sermon depends much on the
idea that the audience has of the piety of the man who preaches it.  Though the words of God
should never have come with greater power from the mouth of man, they will come in vain if
they be uttered by one who is known as a breaker of the Commandments;--they will come in vain
from the mouth of one who is even suspected to be so.  To all this, when it was said to him
by the Bishop in the kindest manner, Dr. Wortle replied that such suspicions were monstrous,
unreasonable, and uncharitable.  He declared that they originated with that abominable virago,
Mrs. Stantiloup.  "Look round the diocese," said the Bishop in reply to this, "and see if you
can find a single clergyman acting in it, of the details of whose life for the last five years
you know absolutely nothing."  Thereupon the Doctor said that he would make inquiry of Mr.
Peacocke himself.  It might well be, he thought, that Mr. Peacocke would not like such inquiry,
but the Doctor was quite sure that any story told to him would be true.  On returning home
he found it necessary, or at any rate expedient, to postpone his questions for a few days.
It is not easy to ask a man what he has been doing with five years of his life, when the question
implies a belief that these five years have been passed badly.  And it was understood that
the questioning must in some sort apply to the man's wife.  The Doctor had once said to Mrs.
Wortle that he stood in awe of Mrs. Peacocke.  There had certainly come upon him an idea that
she was a lady with whom it would not be easy to meddle.  She was obedient, diligent, and minutely
attentive to any wish that was expressed to her in regard to her duties; but it had become
manifest to the Doctor that in all matters beyond the school she was independent, and was by
no means subject to external influences.  She was not, for instance, very constant in her own
attendance at church, and never seemed to feel it necessary to apologise for her absence. 
The Doctor, in his many and familiar conversations with Mr. Peacocke, had not found himself
able to allude to this; and he had observed that the husband did not often speak of his own
wife unless it were on matters having reference to the school.  So it came to pass that he
dreaded the conversation which he proposed to himself, and postponed it from day to day with
a cowardice which was quite unusual to him.

And now, O kind-hearted reader, I feel myself constrained, in the telling of this little story,
to depart altogether from those principles of story-telling to which you probably have become
accustomed, and to put the horse of my romance before the cart.  There is a mystery respecting
Mr. and Mrs. Peacocke which, according to all laws recognised in such matters, ought not to
be elucidated till, let us say, the last chapter but two, so that your interest should be maintained
almost to the end,--so near the end that there should be left only space for those little arrangements
which are necessary for the well-being, or perhaps for the evil-being, of our personages. 
It is my purpose to disclose the mystery at once, and to ask you to look for your interest,--should
you choose to go on with my chronicle,--simply in the conduct of my persons, during this disclosure,
to others.  You are to know it all before the Doctor or the Bishop,--before Mrs. Wortle or
the Hon. Mrs. Stantiloup, or Lady De Lawle. You are to know it all before the Peacockes become
aware that it must necessarily be disclosed to any one.  It may be that when I shall have once
told the mystery there will no longer be any room for interest in the tale to you.  That there
are many such readers of novels I know.  I doubt whether the greater number be not such.  I
am far from saying that the kind of interest of which I am speaking,--and of which I intend
to deprive myself,--is not the most natural and the most efficacious.  What would the 'Black
Dwarf' be if every one knew from the beginning that he was a rich man and a baronet?--or 'The
Pirate,' if all the truth about Norna of the Fitful-head had been told in the first chapter?
Therefore, put the book down if the revelation of some future secret be necessary for your
enjoyment.  Our mystery is going to be revealed in the next paragraph,--in the next half-dozen
words.  Mr. and Mrs. Peacocke were not man and wife.

The story how it came to be so need not be very long;--nor will it, as I think, entail any
great degree of odious criminality either upon the man or upon the woman.  At St. Louis Mrs.
Peacocke had become acquainted with two brothers named Lefroy, who had come up from Louisiana,
and had achieved for themselves characters which were by no means desirable.  They were sons
of a planter who had been rich in extent of acres and number of slaves before the war of the
Secession.  General Lefroy had been in those days a great man in his State, had held command
during the war, and had been utterly ruined.  When the war was over the two boys,--then seventeen
and sixteen years of age,--were old enough to remember and to regret all that they had lost,
to hate the idea of Abolition, and to feel that the world had nothing left for them but what
was to be got by opposition to the laws of the Union, which was now hateful to them.  They
were both handsome, and, in spite of the sufferings of their State, an attempt had been made
to educate them like gentlemen.  But no career of honour had been open to them, and they had
fallen by degrees into dishonour, dishonesty, and brigandage.

The elder of these, when he was still little more than a stripling, had married Ella Beaufort,
the daughter of another ruined planter in his State.  She had been only sixteen when her father
died, and not seventeen when she married Ferdinand Lefroy.  It was she who afterwards came
to England under the name of Mrs. Peacocke.

Mr. Peacocke was Vice-President of the College at Missouri when he first saw her, and when
he first became acquainted with the two brothers, each of whom was called Colonel Lefroy. 
Then there arose a great scandal in the city as to the treatment which the wife received from
her husband.  He was about to go away South, into Mexico, with the view of pushing his fortune
there with certain desperadoes, who were maintaining a perpetual war against the authorities
of the United States on the borders of Texas, and he demanded that his wife should accompany
him.  This she refused to do, and violence was used to force her.  Then it came to pass that
certain persons in St. Louis interfered on her behalf, and among these was the Reverend Mr.
Peacocke, the Vice-President of the College, upon whose feelings the singular beauty and dignified
demeanour of the woman, no doubt, had had much effect.  The man failed to be powerful over
his wife, and then the two brothers went away together.  The woman was left to provide for
herself, and Mr. Peacocke was generous in the aid he gave to her in doing so.

It may be understood that in this way an intimacy was created, but it must not be understood
that the intimacy was of such a nature as to be injurious to the fair fame of the lady.  Things
went on in this way for two years, during which Mrs. Lefroy's conduct drew down upon her reproaches
from no one.  Then there came tidings that Colonel Lefroy had perished in making one of those
raids in which the two brothers were continually concerned.  But which Colonel Lefroy had perished?
If it were the younger brother, that would be nothing to Mr. Peacocke.  If it were the elder,
it would be everything.  If Ferdinand Lefroy were dead, he would not scruple at once to ask
the woman to be his wife.  That which the man had done, and that which he had not done, had
been of such a nature as to solve all bonds of affection.  She had already allowed herself
to speak of the man as one whose life was a blight upon her own; and though there had been
no word of out-spoken love from her lips to his ears, he thought that he might succeed if it
could be made certain that Ferdinand Lefroy was no longer among the living.

"I shall never know," she said in her misery.  "What I do hear I shall never believe.  How
can one know anything as to what happens in a country such as that?"

Then he took up his hat and staff, and, vice-president, professor, and clergyman as he was,
started off for the Mexican border.  He did tell her that he was going, but barely told her.
"It's a thing that ought to be found out," he said, "and I want a turn of travelling.  I shall
be away three months."  She merely bade God bless him, but said not a word to hinder or to
encourage his going.

He was gone just the three months which he had himself named, and then returned elate with
his news.  He had seen the younger brother, Robert Lefroy, and had learnt from him that the
elder Ferdinand had certainly been killed.  Robert had been most ungracious to him, having
even on one occasion threatened his life; but there had been no doubt that he, Robert, was
alive, and that Ferdinand had been killed by a party of United States soldiers.

Then the clergyman had his reward, and was accepted by the widow with a full and happy heart.
Not only had her release been complete, but so was her present joy; and nothing seemed wanting
to their happiness during the six first months after their union.  Then one day, all of a sudden,
Ferdinand Lefroy was standing within her little drawing-room at the College of St. Louis.

Dead?  Certainly he was not dead!  He did not believe that any one had said that he was dead!
She might be lying or not,--he did not care; he, Peacocke, certainly had lied;--so said the
Colonel.  He did not believe that Peacocke had ever seen his brother Robert.  Robert was dead,--must
have been dead, indeed, before the date given for that interview.  The woman was a bigamist,--that
is, if any second marriage had ever been perpetrated.  Probably both had wilfully agreed to
the falsehood.  For himself he should resolve at once what steps he meant to take.  Then he
departed, it being at that moment after nine in the evening.  In the morning he was gone again,
and from that moment they had never either heard of him or seen him.

How was it to be with them?  They could have almost brought themselves to think it a dream,
were it not that others besides themselves had seen the man, and known that Colonel Ferdinand
Lefroy had been in St. Louis.  Then there came to him an idea that even she might disbelieve
the words which he had spoken;--that even she might think his story to have been false. But
to this she soon put an end.  "Dearest," she said, "I never knew a word that was true to come
from his mouth, or a word that was false from yours."

Should they part?  There is no one who reads this but will say that they should have parted.
Every day passed together as man and wife must be a falsehood and a sin.  There would be absolute
misery for both in parting;--but there is no law from God or man entitling a man to escape
from misery at the expense of falsehood and sin.  Though their hearts might have burst in the
doing of it, they should have parted.  Though she would have been friendless, alone, and utterly
despicable in the eyes of the world, abandoning the name which she cherished, as not her own,
and going back to that which she utterly abhorred, still she should have done it.  And he,
resolving, as no doubt he would have done under any circumstances, that he must quit the city
of his adoption,--he should have left her with such material sustenance as her spirit would
have enabled her to accept, should have gone his widowed way, and endured as best he might
the idea that he had left the woman whom he loved behind, in the desert, all alone!  That he
had not done so the reader is aware.  That he had lived a life of sin,--that he and she had
continued in one great falsehood,--is manifest enough.  Mrs. Stantiloup, when she hears it
all, will have her triumph.  Lady De Lawle's soft heart will rejoice because that invitation
was not accepted.  The Bishop will be unutterably shocked; but, perhaps, to the good man there
will be some solace in the feeling that he had been right in his surmises.  How the Doctor
bore it this story is intended to tell,--and how also Mr. and Mrs. Peacocke bore it, when the
sin and the falsehood were made known to all the world around them.  The mystery has at any
rate been told, and they who feel that on this account all hope of interest is at an end had
better put down the book.

Part II.

CHAPTER IV.

THE DOCTOR ASKS HIS QUESTION.

THE Doctor, instigated by the Bishop, had determined to ask some questions of Mr. Peacocke
as to his American life.  The promise had been given at the Palace, and the Doctor, as he returned
home, repented himself in that he had made it.  His lordship was a gossip, as bad as an old
woman, as bad as Mrs. Stantiloup, and wanted to know things in which a man should feel no interest.
So said the Doctor to himself.  What was it to him, the Bishop, or to him, the Doctor, what
Mr. Peacocke had been doing in America?  The man's scholarship was patent, his morals were
unexceptional, his capacity for preaching undoubted, his peculiar fitness for his place at
Bowick unquestionable.  Who had a right to know more?  That the man had been properly educated
at Oxford, and properly ordained on entering his Fellowship, was doubted by no man.  Even if
there had been some temporary backslidings in America,--which might be possible, for which
of us have not backslided at some time of our life?--why should they be raked up? There was
an uncharitableness in such a proceeding altogether opposed to the Doctor's view of life. 
He hated severity.  It may almost be said that he hated that state of perfection which would
require no pardon.  He was thoroughly human, quite content with his own present position, anticipating
no millennium for the future of the world, and probably, in his heart, looking forward to heaven
as simply the better alternative when the happiness of this world should be at an end.  He
himself was in no respect a wicked man, and yet a little wickedness was not distasteful to him.

And he was angry with himself in that he had made such a promise.  It had been a rule of life
with him never to take advice.  The Bishop had his powers, within which he, as Rector of Bowick,
would certainly obey the Bishop; but it had been his theory to oppose his Bishop, almost more
readily than any one else, should the Bishop attempt to exceed his power. The Bishop had done
so in giving this advice, and yet he had promised.  He was angry with himself, but did not
on that account think that the promise should be evaded.  Oh no!  Having said that he would
do it, he would do it.  And having said that he would do it, the sooner that he did it the
better.  When three or four days had passed by, he despised himself because he had not yet
made for himself a fit occasion.  "It is such a mean, sneaking thing to do," he said to himself.
But still it had to be done.

It was on a Saturday afternoon that he said this to himself, as he returned back to the parsonage
garden from the cricket-ground, where he had left Mr. Peacocke and the three other ushers playing
cricket with ten or twelve of the bigger boys of the school.  There was a French master, a
German master, a master for arithmetic and mathematics with the adjacent sciences, besides
Mr. Peacocke, as assistant classical master.  Among them Mr. Peacocke was facile princeps in
rank and supposed ability; but they were all admitted to the delights of the playground.  Mr.
Peacocke, in spite of those years of his spent in America where cricket could not have been
familiar to him, remembered well his old pastime, and was quite an adept at the game.  It was
ten thousand pities that a man should be disturbed by unnecessary questionings who could not
only teach and preach, but play cricket also.  But nevertheless it must be done.  When, therefore,
the Doctor entered his own house, he went into his study and wrote a short note to his assistant;--

"MY DEAR PEACOCKE,--Could you come over and see me in my study this evening for half an hour?
I have a question or two which I wish to ask you.  Any hour you may name will suit me after
eight.--Yours most sincerely,

"JEFFREY WORTLE."

In answer to this there came a note to say that at half-past eight Mr. Peacocke would be with
the Doctor.

At half-past eight Mr. Peacocke came.  He had fancied, on reading the Doctor's note, that some
further question would be raised as to money. The Doctor had declared that he could no longer
accept gratuitous clerical service in the parish, and had said that he must look out for some
one else if Mr. Peacocke could not oblige him by allowing his name to be referred in the usual
way to the Bishop.  He had now determined to say, in answer to this, that the school gave him
enough to do, and that he would much prefer to give up the church;--although he would always
be happy to take a part occasionally if he should be wanted.  The Doctor had been sitting alone
for the last quarter of an hour when his assistant entered the room, and had spent the time
in endeavouring to arrange the conversation that should follow.  He had come at last to a conclusion.
He would let Mr. Peacocke know exactly what had passed between himself and the Bishop, and
would then leave it to his usher either to tell his own story as to his past life, or to abstain
from telling it.  He had promised to ask the question, and he would ask it; but he would let
the man judge for himself whether any answer ought to be given.

"The Bishop has been bothering me about you, Peacocke," he said, standing up with his back
to the fireplace, as soon as the other man had shut the door behind him.  The Doctor's face
was always expressive of his inward feelings, and at this moment showed very plainly that his
sympathies were not with the Bishop.

"I'm sorry that his lordship should have troubled himself," said the other, "as I certainly
do not intend to take any part in his diocese."

"We'll sink that for the present," said the Doctor.  "I won't let that be mixed up with what
I have got to say just now.  You have taken a certain part in the diocese already, very much
to my satisfaction.  I hope it may be continued; but I won't bother about that now.  As far
as I can see, you are just the man that would suit me as a colleague in the parish."  Mr. Peacocke
bowed, but remained silent.  "The fact is," continued the Doctor, "that certain old women have
got hold of the Bishop, and made him feel that he ought to answer their objections.  That Mrs.
Stantiloup has a tongue as loud as the town-crier's bell."

"But what has Mrs. Stantiloup to say about me?"

"Nothing, except in so far as she can hit me through you."

"And what does the Bishop say?"

"He thinks that I ought to know something of your life during those five years you were in
America."

"I think so also," said Mr. Peacocke.

"I don't want to know anything for myself.  As far as I am concerned, I am quite satisfied.
I know where you were educated, how you were ordained, and I can feel sure, from your present
efficiency, that you cannot have wasted your time.  If you tell me that you do not wish to
say anything, I shall be contented, and I shall tell the Bishop that, as far as I am concerned,
there must be an end of it."

"And what will he do?" asked Mr. Peacocke.

"Well; as far as the curacy is concerned, of course he can refuse his licence."

"I have not the slightest intention of applying to his lordship for a licence."

This the usher said with a tone of self-assertion which grated a little on the Doctor's ear,
in spite of his good-humour towards the speaker.  "I don't want to go into that," he said.
"A man never can say what his intentions may be six months hence."

"But if I were to refuse to speak of my life in America," said Mr. Peacocke, "and thus to decline
to comply with what I must confess would be no more than a rational requirement on your part,
how then would it be with myself and my wife in regard to the school?"

"It would make no difference whatever," said the Doctor.

"There is a story to tell," said Mr. Peacocke, very slowly.

"I am sure that it cannot be to your disgrace."

"I do not say that it is,--nor do I say that it is not.  There may be circumstances in which
a man may hardly know whether he has done right or wrong.  But this I do know,--that, had I
done otherwise, I should have despised myself.  I could not have done otherwise and have lived."

"There is no man in the world," said the Doctor, earnestly, "less anxious to pry into the secrets
of others than I am.  I take things as I find them.  If the cook sends me up a good dish I
don't care to know how she made it.  If I read a good book, I am not the less gratified because
there may have been something amiss with the author."

"You would doubt his teaching," said Mr. Peacocke, "who had gone astray himself."

"Then I must doubt all human teaching, for all men have gone astray.  You had better hold your
tongue about the past, and let me tell those who ask unnecessary questions to mind their own
business."

"It is very odd, Doctor," said Mr. Peacocke, "that all this should have come from you just now."

"Why odd just now?"

"Because I had been turning it in my mind for the last fortnight whether I ought not to ask
you as a favour to listen to the story of my life.  That I must do so before I could formally
accept the curacy I had determined. But that only brought me to the resolution of refusing
the office.  I think,--I think that, irrespective of the curacy, it ought to be told. But I
have not quite made up my mind."

"Do not suppose that I am pressing you."

"Oh no; nor would your pressing me influence me.  Much as I owe to your undeserved kindness
and forbearance, I am bound to say that.  Nothing can influence me in the least in such a matter
but the well-being of my wife, and my own sense of duty.  And it is a matter in which I can
unfortunately take counsel from no one.  She, and she alone, besides myself, knows the circumstances,
and she is so forgetful of herself that I can hardly ask her for an opinion."

The Doctor by this time had no doubt become curious.  There was a something mysterious with
which he would like to become acquainted.  He was by no means a philosopher, superior to the
ordinary curiosity of mankind.  But he was manly, and even at this moment remembered his former
assurances.  "Of course," said he, "I cannot in the least guess what all this is about.  For
myself I hate secrets.  I haven't a secret in the world.  I know nothing of myself which you
mightn't know too for all that I cared.  But that is my good fortune rather than my merit.
It might well have been with me as it is with you; but, as a rule, I think that where there
is a secret it had better be kept.  No one, at any rate, should allow it to be wormed out of
him by the impertinent assiduity of others. If there be anything affecting your wife which
you do not wish all the world on this side of the water to know, do not tell it to any one
on this side of the water."

"There is something affecting my wife that I do not wish all the world to know."

"Then tell it to no one," said Dr. Wortle, authoritatively.

"I will tell you what I will do," said Mr. Peacocke; "I will take a week to think of it, and
then I will let you know whether I will tell it or whether I will not; and if I tell it I will
let you know also how far I shall expect you to keep my secret, and how far to reveal it. 
I think the Bishop will be entitled to know nothing about me unless I ask to be recognised
as one of the clergy of his diocese."

"Certainly not; certainly not," said the Doctor.  And then the interview was at an end.

Mr. Peacocke, when he went away from the Rectory, did not at once return to his own house,
but went off for a walk alone.  It was now nearly midsummer, and there was broad daylight till
ten o'clock.  It was after nine when he left the Doctor's, but still there was time for a walk
which he knew well through the fields, which would take him round by Bowick Wood, and home
by a path across the squire's park and by the church.  An hour would do it, and he wanted an
hour to collect his thoughts before he should see his wife, and discuss with her, as he would
be bound to do, all that had passed between him and the Doctor.  He had said that he could
not ask her advice.  In this there had been much of truth.  But he knew also that he would
do nothing as to which he had not received at any rate her assent.  She, for his sake, would
have annihilated herself, had that been possible.  Again and again, since that horrible apparition
had showed itself in her room at St. Louis, she had begged that she might leave him,--not on
her own behalf, not from any dread of the crime that she was committing, not from shame in
regard to herself should her secret be found out, but because she felt herself to be an impediment
to his career in the world.  As to herself, she had no pricks of conscience.  She had been
true to the man,--brutal, abominable as he had been to her,--until she had in truth been made
to believe that he was dead; and even when he had certainly been alive,--for she had seen him,--he
had only again seen her, again to desert her.  Duty to him she could owe never.  There was
no sting of conscience with her in that direction.  But to the other man she owed, as she thought,
everything that could be due from a woman to a man.  He had come within her ken, and had loved
her without speaking of his love. He had seen her condition, and had sympathised with her fully.
He had gone out, with his life in his hand,--he, a clergyman, a quiet man of letters,--to ascertain
whether she was free; and finding her, as he believed, to be free, he had returned to take
her to his heart, and to give her all that happiness which other women enjoy, but which she
had hitherto only seen from a distance.  Then the blow had come.  It was necessary, it was
natural, that she should be ruined by such a blow. Circumstances had ruined her.  That fate
had betaken her which so often falls upon a woman who trusts herself and her life to a man.
But why should he fall also with her fall?  There was still a career before him. He might be
useful; he might be successful; he might be admired. Everything might still be open to him,--except
the love of another woman. As to that, she did not doubt his truth.  Why should he be doomed
to drag her with him as a log tied to his foot, seeing that a woman with a misfortune is condemned
by the general voice of the world, whereas for a man to have stumbled is considered hardly
more than a matter of course? She would consent to take from him the means of buying her bread;
but it would be better,--she had said,--that she should eat it on her side of the water, while
he might earn it on the other.

We know what had come of these arguments.  He had hitherto never left her for a moment since
that man had again appeared before their eyes.  He had been strong in his resolution.  If it
were a crime, then he would be a criminal.  If it were a falsehood, then would he be a liar.
As to the sin, there had no doubt been some divergence of opinion between him and her.  The
teaching that he had undergone in his youth had been that with which we, here, are all more
or less acquainted, and that had been strengthened in him by the fact of his having become
a clergyman.  She had felt herself more at liberty to proclaim to herself a gospel of her own
for the guidance of her own soul.  To herself she had never seemed to be vicious or impure,
but she understood well that he was not equally free from the bonds which religion had imposed
upon him.  For his sake,--for his sake, it would be better that she should be away from him.

All this was known to him accurately, and all this had to be considered by him as he walked
across the squire's park in the gloaming of the evening. No doubt,--he now said to himself,--the
Doctor should have been made acquainted with his condition before he or she had taken their
place at the school.  Reticence under such circumstances had been a lie.  Against his conscience
there had been many pricks.  Living in his present condition he certainly should not have gone
up into that pulpit to preach the Word of God.  Though he had been silent, he had known that
the evil and the deceit would work round upon him.  But now what should he do? There was only
one thing on which he was altogether decided;--nothing should separate them.  As he had said
so often before, he said again now,--"If there be sin, let it be sin."  But this was clear
to him,--were he to give Dr. Wortle a true history of what had happened to him in America,
then must he certainly leave Bowick.  And this was equally certain, that before telling his
tale, he must make known his purpose to his wife.

But as he entered his own house he had determined that he would tell the Doctor everything.

CHAPTER V.

"THEN WE MUST GO."

"I THOUGHT you were never going to have done with that old Jupiter," said Mrs. Peacocke, as
she began at that late hour of the evening to make tea for herself and her husband.

"Why have you waited for me?"

"Because I like company.  Did you ever know me go to tea without you when there was a chance
of your coming?  What has Jupiter been talking about all this time?"

"Jupiter has not been talking all this time.  Jupiter talked only for half an hour.  Jupiter
is a very good fellow."

"I always thought so.  Otherwise I should never have consented to have been one of his satellites,
or have been contented to see you doing chief moon.  But you have been with him an hour and
a half."

"Since I left him I have walked all round by Bowick Lodge.  I had something to think of before
I could talk to you,--something to decide upon, indeed, before I could return to the house."

"What have you decided?" she asked.  Her voice was altogether changed. Though she was seated
in her chair and had hardly moved, her appearance and her carriage of herself were changed.
She still held the cup in her hand which she had been about to fill, but her face was turned
towards his, and her large brown speaking eyes were fixed upon him.

"Let me have my tea," he said, "and then I will tell you."  While he drank his tea she remained
quite quiet, not touching her own, but waiting patiently till it should suit him to speak.
"Ella," he said, "I must tell it all to Dr. Wortle."

"Why, dearest?"  As he did not answer at once, she went on with her question.  "Why now more
than before?"

"Nay, it is not now more than before.  As we have let the before go by, we can only do it now."

"But why at all, dear?  Has the argument, which was strong when we came, lost any of its force?"

"It should have had no force.  We should not have taken the man's good things, and have subjected
him to the injury which may come to him by our bad name."

"Have we not given him good things in return?"

"Not the good things which he had a right to expect,--not that respectability which is all
the world to such an establishment as this."

"Let me go," she said, rising from her chair and almost shrieking.

"Nay, Ella, nay; if you and I cannot talk as though we were one flesh, almost with one soul
between us, as though that which is done by one is done by both, whether for weal or woe,--if
you and I cannot feel ourselves to be in a boat together either for swimming or for sinking,
then I think that no two persons on this earth ever can be bound together after that fashion.
'Whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge.  The Lord do so to me,
and more also, if aught but death part thee and me."' Then she rose from her chair, and flinging
herself on her knees at his feet, buried her face in his lap.  "Ella," he said, "the only injury
you can do me is to speak of leaving me.  And it is an injury which is surely unnecessary because
you cannot carry it beyond words.  Now, if you will sit up and listen to me, I will tell you
what passed between me and the Doctor."  Then she raised herself from the ground and took her
seat at the tea-table, and listened patiently as he began his tale.  "They have been talking
about us here in the county."

"Who has found it necessary to talk about one so obscure as I?"

"What does it matter who they might be?  The Doctor in his kindly wrath,--for he is very wroth,--mentions
this name and the other.  What does it matter?  Obscurity itself becomes mystery, and mystery
of course produces curiosity.  It was bound to be so.  It is not they who are in fault, but
we.  If you are different from others, of course you will be inquired into."

"Am I so different?"

"Yes;--different in not eating the Doctor's dinners when they are offered to you; different
in not accepting Lady De Lawle's hospitality; different in contenting yourself simply with
your duties and your husband.  Of course we are different.  How could we not be different?
And as we are different, so of course there will be questions and wonderings, and that sifting
and searching which always at last finds out the facts.  The Bishop says that he knows nothing
of my American life."

"Why should he want to know anything?"

"Because I have been preaching in one of his churches.  It is natural;--natural that the mothers
of the boys should want to know something.  The Doctor says that he hates secrets.  So do I."

"Oh, my dearest!"

"A secret is always accompanied by more or less of fear, and produces more or less of cowardice.
But it can no more be avoided than a sore on the flesh or a broken bone.  Who would not go
about, with all his affairs such as the world might know, if it were possible?  But there come
gangrenes in the heart, or perhaps in the pocket.  Wounds come, undeserved wounds, as those
did to you, my darling; but wounds which may not be laid bare to all eyes.  Who has a secret
because he chooses it?"

"But the Bishop?"

"Well,--yes, the Bishop.  The Bishop has told the Doctor to examine me, and the Doctor has
done it.  I give him the credit of saying that the task has been most distasteful to him. 
I do him the justice of acknowledging that he has backed out of the work he had undertaken.
He has asked the question, but has said in the same breath that I need not answer it unless
I like."

"And you?  You have not answered it yet?"

"No; I have answered nothing as yet.  But I have, I think, made up my mind that the question
must be answered."

"That everything should be told?"

