At the same time the sawmills of the old type have disappeared with their rotary or circular
saws, dead rollers, and obsolete methods of handling lumber, and in their place is the modern
mill with its band saw, shot-gun feed, steam nigger, live rollers, and resaw. Nor do the mills
longer turn out rough lumber to be re-handled by trained specialists and highly skilled carpenters
with large and costly kits of intricate hand tools. Relatively unskilled workers send forth
the finished products, window sashes, doors, siding, etc., carpenters armed only with square,
hammer and saw, and classed with unskilled labor, put these in place, and a complete house
can be ordered by parcel post.

As is usual with the introduction of new machinery and methods where the workers are not in
control, the actual producers find that all these innovations force them to work at a higher
rate of speed under more hazardous conditions for a lower rate of pay. It is true of all industry
in the main, particularly true of the lumber industry, and the mills of Everett and camps of
Snohomish county have no exceptions to test this rule.

The story of Everett has no hint of romance. Some time in the late seventies the representatives
of John D. Rockefeller gained possession of a tract of land in Western Washington, on Puget
Sound, about thirty miles north of Seattle. The land was heavily timbered and water facilities
made it a perfect site for mill and shipping purposes. The Everett Land Company was organized,
the tract was plotted, and the city of Everett laid out. The leading streets, Rockefeller,
Colby, Hoyt, etc., were named for these early promoters. Hewitt Avenue was given the name of
a man who is today recognized as the leading capitalist of the state of Washington. Even the
building of those streets reflected no credit upon the city. The work was done by what amounted
to convict labor. Unemployed workers, even tho they were plentifully supplied with money, were
arrested and without being allowed the alternative of a fine were set to work clearing, grading,
planking and, later on, paving the streets. Perhaps it is too much to expect freedom of speech
to be allowed on slave-built streets.

In their articles of incorporation the promoters reserved to themselves all right to the ownership
and control of public utilities, such as water, light and power and street railway systems.
A mortgage of $1,500,000 was placed upon the property. After a time the company failed, the
mortgage was foreclosed and the property purchased by Rucker Brothers. The Everett Improvement
Company was then organized with J. T. McChesney as president. It held all rights to dispose
of public utility franchises. The firm of Stone & Webster, the construction, light, heat, power
and traction trust, secured franchises granting them the right to furnish light and power for
the city of Everett and also to operate the street railway system for 99 years. The Everett
Improvement Company owns a dock lying to the south of the municipally owned City Dock where
the Everett tragedy was staged. Thru its alliances the shipping of Everett is in the hands
of the same group of capitalists that control all other public utilities. The waterworks was
sold to the city but has remained in the hands of the same officials who were in charge when
its title was a private one. Everett operates under the commission form of government.

The American National Bank was organized with McChesney as president. The only other bank of
importance in Everett was the First National. These two institutions consolidated with Wm.
C. Butler as president and McChesney as one of the directors. The Everett Savings and Trust
Company was later organized, with the same stockholders and under the same management as the
First National Bank. The control of every public service corporation in Everett is directly
in the hands of these two banks, and, indirectly, thru loans to industrial corporations, they
control both the lumber and the shingle mills of Snohomish County in which Everett is situated.

Everett, the "City of Smokestacks," as its promoters have named it, is an industrial community
of approximately 35,000 people. Its main activities are the production of lumber and shingles,
and shipping. The practically undiversified nature of its economic life binds all those engaged
in the employment of labor into a common body. The owners of the lumber and shingle mills,
the owners and officials of the banks where the lumber men do business, the lawyers representing
the mills and the banks, the employers engaged in shipping lumber and supplies for the lumber
industry, their lawyers and their bank connections, the owners of hardware stores that supply
equipment for the mills and allied industries, all are united by common ties and common interests
and they all support one policy. Not only are they banded together against the wage workers
but they also oppose the entrance of any kind of business that will in any way menace their
rule. They arose almost as one in opposition to the entrance of the ship building industry
into Everett, despite the fact that it would add measurably to the general prosperity of the
city, and with a full knowledge that their harbor offered wonderful natural facilities for
that line of endeavor. In the face of an action that threatened their autocratic power their
alleged "patriotism" vanished.

In 1912 the Everett Commercial Club was organized. In the month of December, 1915, following
a visit from a San Francisco representative of the Merchants and Manufacturers' Association,
it was re-organized on the Bureau plan as a stock concern. Stock memberships were issued to
employers and business houses and were subsequently distributed among the employers and their
employes. Memberships were doled out to persons who would be subservient to the wishes of the
small group of capitalists representing the great corporate interests. W. W. Blain, secretary
of the Commercial Club, testified, under oath, that the Everett Improvement Company took 25
memberships, the First National Bank took 10, the Weyerhouser Lumber Company 10, the Clough-Hartley
Mill Company 5, the Jamison Mill Company 5, and other mills and allied industries also purchased
memberships in bulk. Organized labor, however, had no representation at the Commercial Club.

There is nothing in the history of Everett to suggest the usual spontaneous outgrowth of the
honest endeavors of hardy pioneer settlers. From the first day the Rockefeller interests set
foot in the virgin forests of Snohomish County up to the present time, the spirit of democracy
has been crushed by the greed and cupidity of this small and powerful group.

The struggle at Everett was but one of the inevitable phases of the larger struggle that takes
place when a class or group that has no property comes in contact with those who have monopolized
the earth and its resources. It was no new, marvelous, isolated case of violence. It was the
normal accompaniment of industry based upon the exploitation of wage workers, and was of one
piece with the outbreak on the Mesaba Range, in Bayonne, Ludlow, Paint Creek, Paterson, Lawrence,
San Diego, Fresno, Spokane, Homestead and in countless other places. All these apparently disconnected
and sporadic uprisings of labor and the accompanying capitalist violence are joined together
in a whole that spells wage slavery. As one of the manifestations of the class conflict, the
Everett tragedy cannot be considered apart from that age-long and world-wide struggle between
the takers of profits and the makers of values.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] Data on Forest Reserve taken from 1911 Encyclopedia Britannica articles by Gifford Pinchot.

CHAPTER II.

