A STUDY IN MAGIC AND RELIGION

THIRD EDITION

PART VII

BALDER THE BEAUTIFUL

VOL. I

BALDER THE BEAUTIFUL

THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE AND THE DOCTRINE OF THE EXTERNAL SOUL

J.G. FRAZER, D.C.L., LL.D., Litt.D.

FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE PROFESSOR OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF
LIVERPOOL.

IN TWO VOLUMES VOL. I

1913

PREFACE

In this concluding part of The Golden Bough I have discussed the problem which gives its title
to the whole work. If I am right, the Golden Bough over which the King of the Wood, Diana's
priest at Aricia, kept watch and ward was no other than a branch of mistletoe growing on an
oak within the sacred grove; and as the plucking of the bough was a necessary prelude to the
slaughter of the priest, I have been led to institute a parallel between the King of the Wood
at Nemi and the Norse god Balder, who was worshipped in a sacred grove beside the beautiful
Sogne fiord of Norway and was said to have perished by a stroke of mistletoe, which alone of
all things on earth or in heaven could wound him. On the theory here suggested both Balder
and the King of the Wood personified in a sense the sacred oak of our Aryan forefathers, and
both had deposited their lives or souls for safety in the parasite which sometimes, though
rarely, is found growing on an oak and by the very rarity of its appearance excites the wonder
and stimulates the devotion of ignorant men. Though I am now less than ever disposed to lay
weight on the analogy between the Italian priest and the Norse god, I have allowed it to stand
because it furnishes me with a pretext for discussing not only the general question of the
external soul in popular superstition, but also the fire-festivals of Europe, since fire played
a part both in the myth of Balder and in the ritual of the Arician grove. Thus Balder the Beautiful
in my hands is little more than a stalking-horse to carry two heavy pack-loads of facts. And
what is true of Balder applies equally to the priest of Nemi himself, the nominal hero of the
long tragedy of human folly and suffering which has unrolled itself before the readers of these
volumes, and on which the curtain is now about to fall. He, too, for all the quaint garb he
wears and the gravity with which he stalks across the stage, is merely a puppet, and it is
time to unmask him before laying him up in the box.

To drop metaphor, while nominally investigating a particular problem of ancient mythology,
I have really been discussing questions of more general interest which concern the gradual
evolution of human thought from savagery to civilization. The enquiry is beset with difficulties
of many kinds, for the record of man's mental development is even more imperfect than the record
of his physical development, and it is harder to read, not only by reason of the incomparably
more subtle and complex nature of the subject, but because the reader's eyes are apt to be
dimmed by thick mists of passion and prejudice, which cloud in a far less degree the fields
of comparative anatomy and geology. My contribution to the history of the human mind consists
of little more than a rough and purely provisional classification of facts gathered almost
entirely from printed sources. If there is one general conclusion which seems to emerge from
the mass of particulars, I venture to think that it is the essential similarity in the working
of the less developed human mind among all races, which corresponds to the essential similarity
in their bodily frame revealed by comparative anatomy. But while this general mental similarity
may, I believe, be taken as established, we must always be on our guard against tracing to
it a multitude of particular resemblances which may be and often are due to simple diffusion,
since nothing is more certain than that the various races of men have borrowed from each other
many of their arts and crafts, their ideas, customs, and institutions. To sift out the elements
of culture which a race has independently evolved and to distinguish them accurately from those
which it has derived from other races is a task of extreme difficulty and delicacy, which promises
to occupy students of man for a long time to come; indeed so complex are the facts and so imperfect
in most cases is the historical record that it may be doubted whether in regard to many of
the lower races we shall ever arrive at more than probable conjectures.

Since the last edition of The Golden Bough was published some thirteen years ago, I have seen
reason to change my views on several matters discussed in this concluding part of the work,
and though I have called attention to these changes in the text, it may be well for the sake
of clearness to recapitulate them here.

In the first place, the arguments of Dr. Edward Westermarck have satisfied me that the solar
theory of the European fire-festivals, which I accepted from W. Mannhardt, is very slightly,
if at all, supported by the evidence and is probably erroneous. The true explanation of the
festivals I now believe to be the one advocated by Dr. Westermarck himself, namely that they
are purificatory in intention, the fire being designed not, as I formerly held, to reinforce
the sun's light and heat by sympathetic magic, but merely to burn or repel the noxious things,
whether conceived as material or spiritual, which threaten the life of man, of animals, and
of plants. This aspect of the fire-festivals had not wholly escaped me in former editions;
I pointed it out explicitly, but, biassed perhaps by the great authority of Mannhardt, I treated
it as secondary and subordinate instead of primary and dominant. Out of deference to Mannhardt,
for whose work I entertain the highest respect, and because the evidence for the purificatory
theory of the fires is perhaps not quite conclusive, I have in this edition repeated and even
reinforced the arguments for the solar theory of the festivals, so that the reader may see
for himself what can be said on both sides of the question and may draw his own conclusion;
but for my part I cannot but think that the arguments for the purificatory theory far outweigh
the arguments for the solar theory. Dr. Westermarck based his criticisms largely on his own
observations of the Mohammedan fire-festivals of Morocco, which present a remarkable resemblance
to those of Christian Europe, though there seems no reason to assume that herein Africa has
borrowed from Europe or Europe from Africa. So far as Europe is concerned, the evidence tends
strongly to shew that the grand evil which the festivals aimed at combating was witchcraft,
and that they were conceived to attain their end by actually burning the witches, whether visible
or invisible, in the flames. If that was so, the wide prevalence and the immense popularity
of the fire-festivals provides us with a measure for estimating the extent of the hold which
the belief in witchcraft had on the European mind before the rise of Christianity or rather
of rationalism; for Christianity, both Catholic and Protestant, accepted the old belief and
enforced it in the old way by the faggot and the stake. It was not until human reason at last
awoke after the long slumber of the Middle Ages that this dreadful obsession gradually passed
away like a dark cloud from the intellectual horizon of Europe.

Yet we should deceive ourselves if we imagined that the belief in witchcraft is even now dead
in the mass of the people; on the contrary there is ample evidence to show that it only hibernates
under the chilling influence of rationalism, and that it would start into active life if that
influence were ever seriously relaxed. The truth seems to be that to this day the peasant remains
a pagan and savage at heart; his civilization is merely a thin veneer which the hard knocks
of life soon abrade, exposing the solid core of paganism and savagery below. The danger created
by a bottomless layer of ignorance and superstition under the crust of civilized society is
lessened, not only by the natural torpidity and inertia of the bucolic mind, but also by the
progressive decrease of the rural as compared with the urban population in modern states; for
I believe it will be found that the artisans who congregate in towns are far less retentive
of primitive modes of thought than their rustic brethren. In every age cities have been the
centres and as it were the lighthouses from which ideas radiate into the surrounding darkness,
kindled by the friction of mind with mind in the crowded haunts of men; and it is natural that
at these beacons of intellectual light all should partake in some measure of the general illumination.
No doubt the mental ferment and unrest of great cities have their dark as well as their bright
side; but among the evils to be apprehended from them the chances of a pagan revival need hardly
be reckoned.

Another point on which I have changed my mind is the nature of the great Aryan god whom the
Romans called Jupiter and the Greeks Zeus. Whereas I formerly argued that he was primarily
a personification of the sacred oak and only in the second place a personification of the thundering
sky, I now invert the order of his divine functions and believe that he was a sky-god before
he came to be associated with the oak. In fact, I revert to the traditional view of Jupiter,
recant my heresy, and am gathered like a lost sheep into the fold of mythological orthodoxy.
The good shepherd who has brought me back is my friend Mr. W. Warde Fowler. He has removed
the stone over which I stumbled in the wilderness by explaining in a simple and natural way
how a god of the thundering sky might easily come to be afterwards associated with the oak.
The explanation turns on the great frequency with which, as statistics prove, the oak is struck
by lightning beyond any other tree of the wood in Europe. To our rude forefathers, who dwelt
in the gloomy depths of the primaeval forest, it might well seem that the riven and blackened
oaks must indeed be favourites of the sky-god, who so often descended on them from the murky
cloud in a flash of lightning and a crash of thunder.

This change of view as to the great Aryan god necessarily affects my interpretation of the
King of the Wood, the priest of Diana at Aricia, if I may take that discarded puppet out of
the box again for a moment. On my theory the priest represented Jupiter in the flesh, and accordingly,
if Jupiter was primarily a sky-god, his priest cannot have been a mere incarnation of the sacred
oak, but must, like the deity whose commission he bore, have been invested in the imagination
of his worshippers with the power of overcasting the heaven with clouds and eliciting storms
of thunder and rain from the celestial vault. The attribution of weather-making powers to kings
or priests is very common in primitive society, and is indeed one of the principal levers by
which such personages raise themselves to a position of superiority above their fellows. There
is therefore no improbability in the supposition that as a representative of Jupiter the priest
of Diana enjoyed this reputation, though positive evidence of it appears to be lacking.

Lastly, in the present edition I have shewn some grounds for thinking that the Golden Bough
itself, or in common parlance the mistletoe on the oak, was supposed to have dropped from the
sky upon the tree in a flash of lightning and therefore to contain within itself the seed of
celestial fire, a sort of smouldering thunderbolt. This view of the priest and of the bough
which he guarded at the peril of his life has the advantage of accounting for the importance
which the sanctuary at Nemi acquired and the treasure which it amassed through the offerings
of the faithful; for the shrine would seem to have been to ancient what Loreto has been to
modern Italy, a place of pilgrimage, where princes and nobles as well as commoners poured wealth
into the coffers of Diana in her green recess among the Alban hills, just as in modern times
kings and queens vied with each other in enriching the black Virgin who from her Holy House
on the hillside at Loreto looks out on the blue Adriatic and the purple Apennines. Such pious
prodigality becomes more intelligible if the greatest of the gods was indeed believed to dwell
in human shape with his wife among the woods of Nemi.

These are the principal points on which I have altered my opinion since the last edition of
my book was published. The mere admission of such changes may suffice to indicate the doubt
and uncertainty which attend enquiries of this nature. The whole fabric of ancient mythology
is so foreign to our modern ways of thought, and the evidence concerning it is for the most
part so fragmentary, obscure, and conflicting that in our attempts to piece together and interpret
it we can hardly hope to reach conclusions that will completely satisfy either ourselves or
others. In this as in other branches of study it is the fate of theories to be washed away
like children's castles of sand by the rising tide of knowledge, and I am not so presumptuous
as to expect or desire for mine an exemption from the common lot. I hold them all very lightly
and have used them chiefly as convenient pegs on which to hang my collections of facts. For
I believe that, while theories are transitory, a record of facts has a permanent value, and
that as a chronicle of ancient customs and beliefs my book may retain its utility when my theories
are as obsolete as the customs and beliefs themselves deserve to be.

I cannot dismiss without some natural regret a task which has occupied and amused me at intervals
for many years. But the regret is tempered by thankfulness and hope. I am thankful that I have
been able to conclude at least one chapter of the work I projected a long time ago. I am hopeful
that I may not now be taking a final leave of my indulgent readers, but that, as I am sensible
of little abatement in my bodily strength and of none in my ardour for study, they will bear
with me yet a while if I should attempt to entertain them with fresh subjects of laughter and
tears drawn from the comedy and the tragedy of man's endless quest after happiness and truth.

J.G. FRAZER.

CAMBRIDGE, 17th October 1913.

CONTENTS

PREFACE, Pp. v-xii

CHAPTER I.--BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH, Pp. 1-21

§ 1. Not to touch the Earth, pp. 1-18.--The priest of Aricia and the Golden Bough, 1 sq.; sacred
kings and priests forbidden to touch the ground with their feet, 2-4; certain persons on certain
occasions forbidden to touch the ground with their feet, 4-6; sacred persons apparently thought
to be charged with a mysterious virtue which will run to waste or explode by contact with the
ground, 6 sq.; things as well as persons charged with the mysterious virtue of holiness or
taboo and therefore kept from contact with the ground, 7; festival of the wild mango, which
is not allowed to touch the earth, 7-11; other sacred objects kept from contact with the ground,
11 sq.; sacred food not allowed to touch the earth, 13 sq.; magical implements and remedies
thought to lose their virtue by contact with the ground, 14 sq.; serpents' eggs or snake stones,
15 sq.; medicinal plants, water, etc., not allowed to touch the earth, 17 sq.

§ 2. Not to see the Sun, pp. 18-21.--Sacred persons not allowed to see the sun, 18-20; tabooed
persons not allowed to see the sun, 20; certain persons forbidden to see fire, 20 sq.; the
story of Prince Sunless, 21.

CHAPTER II.--THE SECLUSION OF GIRLS AT PUBERTY, Pp. 22-100

§ 1. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty in Africa, pp. 22-32.--Girls at puberty forbidden to touch
the ground and see the sun, 22; seclusion of girls at puberty among the Zulus and kindred tribes,
22; among the A-Kamba of British East Africa, 23; among the Baganda of Central Africa, 23 sq.;
among the tribes of the Tanganyika plateau, 24 sq.; among the tribes of British Central Africa,
25 sq.; abstinence from salt associated with a rule of chastity in many tribes, 26-28; seclusion
of girls at puberty among the tribes about Lake Nyassa and on the Zambesi, 28 sq.; among the
Thonga of Delagoa Bay, 29 sq.; among the Caffre tribes of South Africa, 30 sq.; among the Bavili
of the Lower Congo, 31 sq.

§ 2. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty in New Ireland, New Guinea, and Indonesia, pp. 32-36.--Seclusion
of girls at puberty in New Ireland, 32-34; in New Guinea, Borneo, Ceram, and the Caroline Islands,
35 sq.

§ 3. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty in the Torres Straits Islands and Northern Australia, pp.
36-41.--Seclusion of girls at puberty in Mabuiag, Torres Straits, 36 sq.; in Northern Australia,
37-39; in the islands of Torres Straits, 39-41.

§ 4. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty among the Indians of North America, pp. 41-55.--Seclusion
of girls at puberty among the Indians of California, 41-43; among the Indians of Washington
State, 43; among the Nootka Indians of Vancouver Island, 43 sq.; among the Haida Indians of
the Queen Charlotte Islands, 44 sq.; among the Tlingit Indians of Alaska, 45 sq.; among the
Tsetsaut and Bella Coola Indians of British Columbia, 46 sq.; among the Tinneh Indians of British
Columbia, 47 sq.; among the Tinneh Indians of Alaska, 48 sq.; among the Thompson Indians of
British Columbia, 49-52; among the Lillooet Indians of British Columbia, 52 sq.; among the
Shuswap Indians of British Columbia, 53 sq.; among the Delaware and Cheyenne Indians, 54 sq.;
among the Esquimaux, 55 sq.

§ 5. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty among the Indians of South America, pp. 56-68.--Seclusion
of girls at puberty among the Guaranis, Chiriguanos, and Lengua Indians, 56 sq.; among the
Yuracares of Bolivia, 57 sq.; among the Indians of the Gran Chaco, 58 sq.; among the Indians
of Brazil, 59 sq.; among the Indians of Guiana, 60 sq.; beating the girls and stinging them
with ants, 61; stinging young men with ants and wasps as an initiatory rite, 61-63; stinging
men and women with ants to improve their character or health or to render them invulnerable,
63 sq.; in such cases the beating or stinging was originally a purification, not a test of
courage and endurance, 65 sq.; this explanation confirmed by the beating of girls among the
Banivas of the Orinoco to rid them of a demon, 66-68; symptoms of puberty in a girl regarded
as wounds inflicted on her by a demon, 68.

§ 6. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty in India and Cambodia, pp. 68-70.--Seclusion of girls at
puberty among the Hindoos, 68; in Southern India, 68-70; in Cambodia, 70.

§ 7. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty in Folk-tales, pp. 70-76.--Danish story of the girl who
might not see the sun, 70-72; Tyrolese story of the girl who might not see the sun, 72; modern
Greek stories of the maid who might not see the sun, 72 sq.; ancient Greek story of Danae and
its parallel in a Kirghiz legend, 73 sq.; impregnation of women by the sun in legends, 74 sq.;
traces in marriage customs of the belief that women can be impregnated by the sun, 75; belief
in the impregnation of women by the moon, 75 sq.

§ 8. Reasons for the Seclusion of Girls at Puberty, pp. 76-100.--The reason for the seclusion
of girls at puberty is the dread of menstruous blood, 76; dread and seclusion of menstruous
women among the aborigines of Australia, 76-78; in Torres Straits Islands, New Guinea, Galela,
and Sumatra, 78 sq.; among the tribes of South Africa, 79 sq.; among the tribes of Central
and East Africa, 80-82; among the tribes of West Africa, 82; powerful influence ascribed to
menstruous blood in Arab legend, 82 sq.; dread and seclusion of menstruous women among the
Jews and in Syria, 83 sq.; in India, 84 sq.; in Annam, 85; among the Indians of Central and
South America, 85 sq.; among the Indians of North America, 87-94; among the Creek, Choctaw,
Omaha and Cheyenne Indians, 88 sq.; among the Indians of British Columbia, 89 sq.; among the
Chippeway Indians, 90 sq.; among the Tinneh or Déné Indians, 91; among the Carrier Indians,
91-94; similar rules of seclusion enjoined on menstruous women in ancient Hindoo, Persian,
and Hebrew codes, 94-96; superstitions as to menstruous women in ancient and modern Europe,
96 sq.; the intention of secluding menstruous women is to neutralize the dangerous influences
which are thought to emanate from them in that condition, 97; suspension between heaven and
earth, 97; the same explanation applies to the similar rules of seclusion observed by divine
kings and priests, 97-99; stories of immortality attained by suspension between heaven and
earth, 99 sq.

CHAPTER III.--THE MYTH OF BALDER, Pp. 101-105

How Balder, the good and beautiful god, was done to death by a stroke of mistletoe, 101 sq.;
story of Balder in the older Edda, 102 sq.; story of Balder as told by Saxo Grammaticus, 103;
Balder worshipped in Norway, 104; legendary death of Balder resembles the legendary death of
Isfendiyar in the epic of Firdusi, 104 sq.; the myth of Balder perhaps acted as a magical ceremony;
the two main incidents of the myth, namely the pulling of the mistletoe and the burning of
the god, have perhaps their counterpart in popular ritual, 105.

CHAPTER IV.--THE FIRE FESTIVALS OF EUROPE, Pp. 106-327

§ 1. The Lenten Fires, pp. 106-120.--European custom of kindling bonfires on certain days of
the year, dancing round them, leaping over them, and burning effigies in the flames, 106; seasons
of the year at which the bonfires are lit, 106 sq.; bonfires on the first Sunday in Lent in
the Belgian Ardennes, 107 sq.; in the French department of the Ardennes, 109 sq.; in Franche-Comté,
110 sq.; in Auvergne, 111-113; French custom of carrying lighted torches (brandons) about the
orchards and fields to fertilize them on the first Sunday of Lent, 113-115; bonfires on the
first Sunday of Lent in Germany and Austria, 115 sq.; "burning the witch," 116; burning discs
thrown into the air, 116 sq.; burning wheels rolled down hill, 117 sq.; bonfires on the first
Sunday in Lent in Switzerland, 118 sq.; burning discs thrown into the air, 119; connexion of
these fires with the custom of "carrying out Death," 119 sq.

§ 2. The Easter Fires, 120-146.--Custom in Catholic countries of kindling a holy new fire on
Easter Saturday, marvellous properties ascribed to the embers of the fire, 121; effigy of Judas
burnt in the fire, 121; Easter fires in Bavaria and the Abruzzi, 122; water as well as fire
consecrated at Easter in Italy, Bohemia, and Germany, 122-124; new fire at Easter in Carinthia,
124; Thomas Kirchmeyer's account of the consecration of fire and water by the Catholic Church
at Easter, 124 sq.; the new fire on Easter Saturday at Florence, 126 sq.; the new fire and
the burning of Judas on Easter Saturday in Mexico and South America, 127 sq.; the new fire
on Easter Saturday in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem, 128-130; the new fire
and the burning of Judas on Easter Saturday in Greece, 130 sq.; the new fire at Candlemas in
Armenia, 131; the new fire and the burning of Judas at Easter are probably relics of paganism,
131 sq.; new fire at the summer solstice among the Incas of Peru, 132; new fire among the Indians
of Mexico and New Mexico, the Iroquois, and the Esquimaux, 132-134; new fire in Wadai, among
the Swahili, and in other parts of Africa, 134-136; new fires among the Todas and Nagas of
India, 136; new fire in China and Japan, 137 sq.; new fire in ancient Greece and Rome, 138;
new fire at Hallowe'en among the old Celts of Ireland, 139; new fire on the first of September
among the Russian peasants, 139; the rite of the new fire probably common to many peoples of
the Mediterranean area before the rise of Christianity, 139 sq.; the pagan character of the
Easter fire manifest from the superstitions associated with it, such as the belief that the
fire fertilizes the fields and protects houses from conflagration and sickness, 140 sq.; the
Easter fires in Münsterland, Oldenburg, the Harz Mountains, and the Altmark, 141-143; Easter
fires and the burning of Judas or the Easter Man in Bavaria, 143 sq.; Easter fires and "thunder
poles" in Baden, 145; Easter fires in Holland and Sweden, 145 sq.; the burning of Judas in
Bohemia, 146.

§ 3. The Beltane Fires, pp. 146-160.--The Beltane fires on the first of May in the Highlands
of Scotland, 146-154; John Ramsay of Ochtertyre, his description of the Beltane fires and cakes
and the Beltane carline, 146-149; Beltane fires and cakes in Perthshire, 150-153; Beltane fires
in the north-east of Scotland to burn the witches, 153 sq.; Beltane fires and cakes in the
Hebrides, 154; Beltane fires and cakes in Wales, 155-157; in the Isle of Man to burn the witches,
157; in Nottinghamshire, 157; in Ireland, 157-159; fires on the Eve of May Day in Sweden, 159;
in Austria and Saxony to burn the witches, 159 sq.

§ 4. The Midsummer Fires, pp. 160-219.--The great season for fire-festivals in Europe is Midsummer
Eve or Midsummer Day, which the church has dedicated to St. John the Baptist, 160 sq.; the
bonfires, the torches, and the burning wheels of the festival, 161; Thomas Kirchmeyer's description
of the Midsummer festival, 162 sq.; the Midsummer fires in Germany, 163-171; burning wheel
rolled down hill at Konz on the Moselle, 163 sq.; Midsummer fires in Bavaria, 164-166; in Swabia,
166 sq.; in Baden, 167-169; in Alsace, Lorraine, the Eifel, the Harz district, and Thuringia,
169; Midsummer fires kindled by the friction of wood, 169 sq.; driving away the witches and
demons, 170; Midsummer fires in Silesia, scaring away the witches, 170 sq.; Midsummer fires
in Denmark and Norway, keeping off the witches, 171; Midsummer fires in Sweden, 172; Midsummer
fires in Switzerland and Austria, 172 sq.; in Bohemia, 173-175; in Moravia, Austrian Silesia,
and the district of Cracow, 175; among the Slavs of Russia, 176; in Prussia and Lithuania as
a protection against witchcraft, thunder, hail, and cattle disease, 176 sq.; in Masuren the
fire is kindled by the revolution of a wheel, 177; Midsummer fires among the Letts of Russia,
177 sq.; among the South Slavs, 178; among the Magyars, 178 sq.; among the Esthonians, 179
sq.; among the Finns and Cheremiss of Russia, 180 sq.; in France, 181-194; Bossuet on the Midsummer
festival, 182; the Midsummer fires in Brittany, 183-185; in Normandy, the Brotherhood of the
Green Wolf at Jumièges, 185 sq.; Midsummer fires in Picardy, 187 sq.; in Beauce and Perche,
188; the fires a protection against witchcraft, 188; the Midsummer fires in the Ardennes, the
Vosges, and the Jura, 188 sq.; in Franche-Comté, 189; in Berry and other parts of Central France,
189 sq.; in Poitou, 190 sq.; in the departments of Vienne and Deux-Sèvres and in the provinces
of Saintonge and Aunis, 191 sq.; in Southern France, 192 sq.; Midsummer festival of fire and
water in Provence, 193 sq.; Midsummer fires in Belgium, 194-196; in England, 196-200; Stow's
description of the Midsummer fires in London, 196 sq.; John Aubrey on the Midsummer fires,
197; Midsummer fires in Cumberland, Northumberland, and Yorkshire, 197 sq.; in Herefordshire,
Somersetshire, Devonshire, and Cornwall, 199 sq.; in Wales and the Isle of Man, 200 sq.; in
Ireland, 201-205; holy wells resorted to on Midsummer Eve in Ireland, 205 sq.; Midsummer fires
in Scotland, 206 sq.; Midsummer fires and divination in Spain and the Azores, 208 sq.; Midsummer
fires in Corsica and Sardinia, 209; in the Abruzzi, 209 sq.; in Sicily, 210; in Malta, 210
sq.; in Greece and the Greek islands, 211 sq.; in Macedonia and Albania, 212; in South America,
212 sq.; among the Mohammedans of Morocco and Algeria, 213-216; the Midsummer festival in North
Africa comprises rites of water as well as fire, 216; similar festival of fire and water at
New Year in North Africa, 217 sq.; the duplication of the festival probably due to a conflict
between the solar calendar of the Romans and the lunar calendar of the Arabs, 218 sg.; the
Midsummer festival in Morocco apparently of Berber origin, 219.

§ 5. The Autumn Fires, pp. 220-222.--Festivals of fire in August, 220; "living fire" made by
the friction of wood, 220; feast of the Nativity of the Virgin on the eighth of September at
Capri and Naples, 220-222.

§ 6. The Halloween Fires, pp. 222-246.--While the Midsummer festival implies observation of
the solstices, the Celts appear to have divided their year, without regard to the solstices,
by the times when they drove their cattle to and from the summer pasture on the first of May
and the last of October (Hallowe'en), 222-224; the two great Celtic festivals of Beltane (May
Day) and Hallowe'en (the last of October), 224; Hallowe'en seems to have marked the beginning
of the Celtic year, 224 sq.; it was a season of divination and a festival of the dead, 225
sq.; fairies and hobgoblins let loose at Hallowe'en, 226-228; divination in Celtic countries
at Hallowe'en, 228 sq.; Hallowe'en bonfires in the Highlands of Scotland, 229-232; Hallowe'en
fires in Buchan to burn the witches, 232 sq.; processions with torches at Hallowe'en in the
Braemar Highlands, 233 sq.; divination at Hallowe'en in the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland,
234-239; Hallowe'en fires in Wales, omens drawn from stones cast into the fires, 239 sq.; divination
at Hallowe'en in Wales, 240 sq.; divination at Hallowe'en in Ireland, 241-243; Hallowe'en fires
and divination in the Isle of Man, 243 sq.; Hallowe'en fires and divination in Lancashire,
244 sq.; marching with lighted candles to keep off the witches, 245; divination at Hallowe'en
in Northumberland, 245; Hallowe'en fires in France, 245 sq.

§ 7. The Midwinter Fires, pp. 246-269.--Christmas the continuation of an old heathen festival
of the sun, 246; the Yule log the Midwinter counterpart of the Midsummer bonfire, 247; the
Yule log in Germany, 247-249; in Switzerland, 249; in Belgium, 249; in France, 249-255; French
superstitions as to the Yule log, 250; the Yule log at Marseilles and in Perigord, 250 sq.;
in Berry, 251 sq.; in Normandy and Brittany, 252 sq.; in the Ardennes, 253 sq.; in the Vosges,
254; in Franche-Comté, 254 sq.; the Yule log and Yule candle in England, 255-258; the Yule
log in the north of England and Yorkshire, 256 sq.; in Lincolnshire, Warwickshire, Shropshire,
and Herefordshire, 257 sq.; in Wales, 258; in Servia, 258-262; among the Servians of Slavonia,
262 sq.; among the Servians of Dalmatia, Herzegovina, and Montenegro, 263 sq.; in Albania,
264; belief that the Yule log protects against fire and lightning, 264 sq.; public fire-festivals
at Midwinter, 265-269; Christmas bonfire at Schweina in Thuringia, 265 sq.; Christmas bonfires
in Normandy, 266; bonfires on St. Thomas's Day in the Isle of Man, 266; the "Burning of the
Clavie" at Burghead on the last day of December, 266-268; Christmas procession with burning
tar-barrels at Lerwick, 268 sq.

§ 8. The Need-fire, pp. 269-300.--Need-fire kindled not at fixed periods but on occasions of
distress and calamity, 269; the need-fire in the Middle Ages and down to the end of the sixteenth
century, 270 sq.; mode of kindling the need-fire by the friction of wood, 271 sq.; the need-fire
in Central Germany, particularly about Hildesheim, 272 sq.; the need-fire in the Mark, 273;
in Mecklenburg, 274 sq.; in Hanover, 275 sq.; in the Harz Mountains, 276 sq.; in Brunswick,
277 sq.; in Silesia and Bohemia, 278 sq.; in Switzerland, 279 sq.; in Sweden and Norway, 280;
among the Slavonic peoples, 281-286; in Russia and Poland, 281 sq.; in Slavonia, 282; in Servia,
282-284; in Bulgaria, 284-286; in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 286; in England, 286-289; in Yorkshire,
286-288; in Northumberland, 288 sq.; in Scotland, 289-297; Martin's account of it in the Highlands,
289; the need-fire in Mull, 289 sq.; in Caithness, 290-292; W. Grant Stewart's account of the
need-fire, 292 sq.; Alexander Carmichael's account, 293-295; the need-fire in Aberdeenshire,
296; in Perthshire, 296 sq.; in Ireland, 297; the use of need-fire a relic of the time when
all fires were similarly kindled by the friction of wood, 297 sq.; the belief that need-fire
cannot kindle if any other fire remains alight in the neighbourhood, 298 sq.; the need-fire
among the Iroquois of North America, 299 sq.

§ 9. The Sacrifice of an Animal to stay a Cattle-plague, pp. 300-327.--The burnt sacrifice
of a calf in England and Wales, 300 sq.; burnt sacrifices of animals in Scotland, 301 sq.;
calf burnt in order to break a spell which has been cast on the herd, 302 sq.; mode in which
the burning of a bewitched animal is supposed to break the spell, 303-305; in burning the bewitched
animal you burn the witch herself, 305; practice of burning cattle and sheep as sacrifices
in the Isle of Man, 305-307; by burning a bewitched animal you compel the witch to appear,
307; magic sympathy between the witch and the bewitched animal, 308; similar sympathy between
a were-wolf and his or her human shape, wounds inflicted on the animal are felt by the man
or woman, 308; were-wolves in Europe, 308-310; in China, 310 sq.; among the Toradjas of Central
Celebes, 311-313 sq.; in the Egyptian Sudan, 313 sq.; the were-wolf story in Petronius, 313
sq.; witches like were-wolves can temporarily transform themselves into animals, and wounds
inflicted on the transformed animals appear on the persons of the witches, 315 sq.; instances
of such transformations and wounds in Scotland, England, Ireland, France, and Germany, 316-321;
hence the reason for burning bewitched animals is either to burn the witch herself or at all
events to compel her to appear, 321 sq.; the like reason for burning bewitched things, 322
sq.; similarly by burning alive a person whose likeness a witch has assumed you compel the
witch to disclose herself, 323; woman burnt alive as a witch in Ireland at the end of the nineteenth
century, 323 sq.; bewitched animals sometimes buried alive instead of being burned, 324-326;
calves killed and buried to save the rest of the herd, 326 sq.

CHAPTER V.--THE INTERPRETATION OF THE FIRE-FESTIVALS, Pp. 328-346

§ 1. On the Fire-festivals in general pp. 328-331.--General resemblance of the fire-festivals
to each other, 328 sq.; two explanations of the festivals suggested, one by W. Mannhardt that
they are sun-charms, the other by Dr. E. Westermarck that they are purificatory, 329 sq.; the
two explanations perhaps not mutually exclusive, 330 sq.

§ 2. The Solar Theory of the Fire-festivals, pp. 331-341.--Theory that the fire-festivals are
charms to ensure a supply of sunshine, 331; coincidence of two of the festivals with the solstices,
331 sq.; attempt of the Bushmen to warm up the fire of Sirius in midwinter by kindling sticks,
332 sq.; the burning wheels and discs of the fire-festivals may be direct imitations of the
sun, 334; the wheel which is sometimes used to kindle the fire by friction may also be an imitation
of the sun, 334-336; the influence which the bonfires are supposed to exert on the weather
and vegetation may be thought to be due to an increase of solar heat produced by the fires,
336-338; the effect which the bonfires are supposed to have in fertilizing cattle and women
may also be attributed to an increase of solar heat produced by the fires, 338 sq.; the carrying
of lighted torches about the country at the festivals may be explained as an attempt to diffuse
the sun's heat, 339-341.

§ 3. The Purificatory Theory of the Fire-festivals, pp. 341-346.--Theory that the fires at
the festivals are purificatory, being intended to burn up all harmful things, 341; the purificatory
or destructive effect of the fires is often alleged by the people who light them, and there
is no reason to reject this explanation, 341 sq.; the great evil against which the fire at
the festivals appears to be directed is witchcraft, 342; among the evils for which the fire-festivals
are deemed remedies the foremost is cattle-disease, and cattle-disease is often supposed to
be an effect of witchcraft, 343 sq.; again, the bonfires are thought to avert hail, thunder,
lightning, and various maladies, all of which are attributed to the maleficent arts of witches,
344 sq.; the burning wheels rolled down hill and the burning discs thrown into the air may
be intended to burn the invisible witches, 345 sq.; on this view the fertility supposed to
follow the use of fire results indirectly from breaking the spells of witches, 346; on the
whole the theory of the purificatory or destructive intention of the fire-festivals seems the
more probable, 346.

CHAPTER I

BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH

§ 1. Not to touch the Earth

[The priest of Aricia and the Golden Bough]

We have travelled far since we turned our backs on Nemi and set forth in quest of the secret
of the Golden Bough. With the present volume we enter on the last stage of our long journey.
The sagacious author of The Striped-petticoat Philosophy in the eighteenth century ridicules
the idea as mere silly talk. He admits, indeed, that the women were conveyed to the place of
execution in carts; but he denies that there is any deep significance in the cart, and he is
prepared to maintain this view by a chemical analysis of the timber of which the cart was built.
To clinch his argument he appeals to plain matter of fact and his own personal experience.
Not a single instance, he assures us with apparent satisfaction, can be produced of a witch
who escaped the axe or the fire in this fashion. "I have myself," says he, "in my youth seen
divers witches burned, some at Arnstadt, some at Ilmenau, some at Schwenda, a noble village
between Arnstadt and Ilmenau, and some of them were pardoned and beheaded before being burned.

[Things as well as persons can be charged with the mysterious quality of holiness or taboo;
and when so charged they must be kept from contact with the ground.]

But things as well as persons are often charged with the mysterious quality of holiness or
taboo; hence it frequently becomes necessary for similar reasons to guard them also from coming
into contact with the ground, lest they should in like manner be drained of their valuable
properties and be reduced to mere commonplace material objects, empty husks from which the
good grain has been eliminated. Thus, for example, the most sacred object of the Arunta tribe
in Central Australia is, or rather used to be, a pole about twenty feet high, which is completely
smeared with human blood, crowned with an imitation of a human head, and set up on the ground
where the final initiatory ceremonies of young men are performed. A young gum-tree is chosen
to form the pole, and it must be cut down and transported in such a way that it does not touch
the earth till it is erected in its place on the holy ground. Apparently the pole represents
some famous ancestor of the olden time.[21]

[Festival of the wild manog tree in British New Guinea.]

Again, at a great dancing festival celebrated by the natives of Bartle Bay, in British New
Guinea, a wild mango tree plays a prominent part. The tree must be self-sown, that is, really
wild and so young that it has never flowered. It is chosen in the jungle some five or six weeks
before the festival, and a circle is cleared round its trunk. From that time the master of
the ceremonies and some eight to twenty other men, who have aided him in choosing the tree
and in clearing the jungle, become strictly holy or tabooed. They sleep by themselves in a
house into which no one else may intrude: they may not wash or drink water, nor even allow
it accidentally to touch their bodies: they are forbidden to eat boiled food and the fruit
of mango trees: they may drink only the milk of a young coco-nut which has been baked, and
they may eat certain fruits and vegetables, such as paw-paws (Carica papaya) and sugar-cane,
but only on condition that they have been baked. All refuse of their food is kept in baskets
in their sleeping-house and may not be removed from it till the festival is over. At the time
when the men begin to observe these rules of abstinence, some six to ten women, members of
the same clan as the master of the ceremonies, enter on a like period of mortification, avoiding
the company of the other sex, and refraining from water, all boiled food, and the fruit of
the mango tree. These fasting men and women are the principal dancers at the festival. The
dancing takes place on a special platform in a temporary village which has been erected for
the purpose. When the platform is about to be set up, the fasting men rub the stepping posts
and then suck their hands for the purpose of extracting the ghost of any dead man that might
chance to be in the post and might be injured by the weight of the platform pressing down on
him. Having carefully extracted these poor souls, the men carry them away tenderly and set
them free in the forest or the long grass.

[The wild mango tree not allowed to touch the ground.]

On the day before the festival one of the fasting men cuts down the chosen mango tree in the
jungle with a stone adze, which is never afterwards put to any other use; an iron tool may
not be used for the purpose, though iron tools are now common enough in the district. In cutting
down the mango they place nets on the ground to catch any leaves or twigs that might fall from
the tree as it is being felled and they surround the trunk with new mats to receive the chips
which fly out under the adze of the woodman; for the chips may not drop on the earth. Once
the tree is down, it is carried to the centre of the temporary village, the greatest care being
taken to prevent it from coming into contact with the ground. But when it is brought into the
village, the houses are connected with the top of the mango by means of long vines decorated
with the streamers. In the afternoon the fasting men and women begin to dance, the men bedizened
with gay feathers, armlets, streamers, and anklets, the women flaunting in parti-coloured petticoats
and sprigs of croton leaves, which wave from their waistbands as they dance. The dancing stops
at sundown, and when the full moon rises over the shoulder of the eastern hill (for the date
of the festival seems to be determined with reference to the time of the moon), two chiefs
mount the gables of two houses on the eastern side of the square, and, their dusky figures
standing sharply out against the moonlight, pray to the evil spirits to go away and not to
hurt the people. Next morning pigs are killed by being speared as slowly as possible in order
that they may squeal loud and long; for the people believe that the mango trees hear the squealing,
and are pleased at the sound, and bear plenty of fruit, whereas if they heard no squeals they
would bear no fruit. However, the trees have to content themselves with the squeals; the flesh
of the pigs is eaten by the people. This ends the festival.

[Final disposition of the wild mango tree.]

Next day the mango is taken down from the platform, wrapt in new mats, and carried by the fasting
men to their sleeping house, where it is hung from the roof. But after an interval, it may
be of many months, the tree is brought forth again. As to the reason for its reappearance in
public opinions are divided; but some say that the tree itself orders the master of the ceremonies
to bring it forth, appearing to him in his dreams and saying, "Let me smell the smoking fat
of pigs. So will your pigs be healthy and your crops will grow." Be that as it may, out it
comes, conducted by the fasting men in their dancing costume; and with it come in the solemn
procession all the pots, spoons, cups and so forth used by the fasting men during their period
of holiness or taboo, also all the refuse of their food which has been collected for months,
and all the fallen leaves and chips of the mango in their bundles of mats. These holy relics
are carried in front and the mango tree itself brings up the rear of the procession. While
these sacred objects are being handed out of the house, the men who are present rush up, wipe
off the hallowed dust which has accumulated on them, and smear it over their own bodies, no
doubt in order to steep themselves in their blessed influence. Thus the tree is carried as
before to the centre of the temporary village, care being again taken not to let it touch the
ground. Then one of the fasting men takes from a basket a number of young green mangoes, cuts
them in pieces, and places them with his own hands in the mouths of his fellows, the other
fasting men, who chew the pieces small and turning round spit the morsels in the direction
of the setting sun, in order that "the sun should carry the mango bits over the whole country
and everyone should know." A portion of the mango tree is then broken off and in the evening
it is burnt along with the bundles of leaves, chips, and refuse of food, which have been stored
up. What remains of the tree is taken to the house of the master of the ceremonies and hung
over the fire-place; it will be brought out again at intervals and burned bit by bit, till
all is consumed, whereupon a new mango will be cut down and treated in like manner. The ashes
of the holy fire on each occasion are gathered by the people and preserved in the house of
the master of the ceremonies.[22]

[The ceremony apparently intended to fertilize the mango trees.]

The meaning of these ceremonies is not explained by the authorities who describe them; but
we may conjecture that they are intended to fertilize the mango trees and cause them to bear
a good crop of fruit. The central feature of the whole ritual is a wild mango tree, so young
that it has never flowered: the men who cut it down, carry it into the village, and dance at
the festival, are forbidden to eat mangoes: pigs are killed in order that their dying squeals
may move the mango trees to bear fruit: at the end of the ceremonies pieces of young green
mangoes are solemnly placed in the mouths of the fasting men and are by them spurted out towards
the setting sun in order that the luminary may carry the fragments to every part of the country;
and finally when after a longer or shorter interval the tree is wholly consumed, its place
is supplied by another. All these circumstances are explained simply and naturally by the supposition
that the young mango tree is taken as a representative of mangoes generally, that the dances
are intended to quicken it, and that it is preserved, like a May-pole of old in England, as
a sort of general fund of vegetable life, till the fund being exhausted by the destruction
of the tree it is renewed by the importation of a fresh young tree from the forest. We can
therefore understand why, as a storehouse of vital energy, the tree should be carefully kept
from contact with the ground, lest the pent-up and concentrated energy should escape and dribbling
away into the earth be dissipated to no purpose.

[Sacred objects of various sorts not allowed to touch the ground.]

To take other instances of what we may call the conservation of energy in magic or religion
by insulating sacred bodies from the ground, the natives of New Britain have a secret society
called the Duk-duk, the members of which masquerade in petticoats of leaves and tall headdresses
of wickerwork shaped like candle extinguishers, which descend to the shoulders of the wearers,
completely concealing their faces. Thus disguised they dance about to the awe and terror, real
or assumed, of the women and uninitiated, who take, or pretend to take, them for spirits. When
lads are being initiated into the secrets of this august society, the adepts cut down some
very large and heavy bamboos, one for each lad, and the novices carry them, carefully wrapt
up in leaves, to the sacred ground, where they arrive very tired and weary, for they may not
let the bamboos touch the ground nor the sun shine on them. Outside the fence of the enclosure
every lad deposits his bamboo on a couple of forked sticks and covers it up with nut leaves.[23]
Among the Carrier Indians of North-Western America, who burned their dead, the ashes of a chief
used to be placed in a box and set on the top of a pole beside his hut: the box was never allowed
to touch the ground.[24] In the Omaha tribe of North American Indians the sacred clam shell
of the Elk clan was wrapt up from sight in a mat, placed on a stand, and never suffered to
come in contact with the earth.[25] The Cherokees and kindred Indian tribes of the United States
used to have certain sacred boxes or arks, which they regularly took with them to war. Such
a holy ark consisted of a square wooden box, which contained "certain consecrated vessels made
by beloved superannuated women, and of such various antiquated forms, as would have puzzled
Adam to have given significant names to each." The leader of a war party and his attendant
bore the ark by turns, but they never set it on the ground nor would they themselves sit on
the bare earth while they were carrying it against the enemy. Where stones were plentiful they
rested the ark on them; but where no stones were to be found, they deposited it on short logs.
"The Indian ark is deemed so sacred and dangerous to be touched, either by their own sanctified
warriors, or the spoiling enemy, that they durst not touch it upon any account. It is not to
be meddled with by any, except the war chieftain and his waiter, under the penalty of incurring
great evil. Nor would the most inveterate enemy touch it in the woods, for the very same reason."
After their return home they used to hang the ark on the leader's red-painted war pole.[26]
At Sipi, near Simla, in Northern India, an annual fair is held, at which men purchase wives.
A square box with a domed top figures prominently at the fair. It is fixed on two poles to
be carried on men's shoulders, and long heavily-plaited petticoats hang from it nearly to the
ground. Three sides of the box are adorned with the head and shoulders of a female figure and
the fourth side with a black yak's tail. Four men bear the poles, each carrying an axe in his
right hand. They dance round, with a swinging rhythmical step, to the music of drums and a
pipe. The dance goes on for hours and is thought to avert ill-luck from the fair. It is said
that the box is brought to Simla from a place sixty miles off by relays of men, who may not
stop nor set the box on the ground the whole way.[27] In Scotland, when water was carried from
sacred wells to sick people, the water-vessel might not touch the earth.[28] In some parts
of Aberdeenshire the last bunch of standing corn, which is commonly viewed as very sacred,
being the last refuge of the corn-spirit retreating before the reapers, is not suffered to
touch the ground; the master or "gueedman" sits down and receives each handful of corn as it
is cut on his lap.[29]

[Sacred food not allowed to touch the earth.]

Again, sacred food may not under certain circumstances be brought into contact with the earth.
Some of the aborigines of Victoria used to regard the fat of the emu as sacred, believing that
it had once been the fat of the black man. In taking it from the bird or giving it to another
they handled it reverently. Any one who threw away the fat or flesh of the emu was held accursed.
"The late Mr. Thomas observed on one occasion, at Nerre-nerre-Warreen, a remarkable exhibition
of the effects of this superstition. An aboriginal child--one attending the school--having
eaten some part of the flesh of an emu, threw away the skin. The skin fell to the ground, and
this being observed by his parents, they showed by their gestures every token of horror. They
looked upon their child as one utterly lost. His desecration of the bird was regarded as a
sin for which there was no atonement."[30] The Roumanians of Transylvania believe that "every
fresh-baked loaf of wheaten bread is sacred, and should a piece inadvertently fall to the ground,
it is hastily picked up, carefully wiped and kissed, and if soiled, thrown into the fire--partly
as an offering to the dead, and partly because it were a heavy sin to throw away or tread upon
any particle of it."[31] At certain festivals in south-eastern Borneo the food which is consumed
in the common house may not touch the ground; hence, a little before the festivals take place,
foot-bridges made of thin poles are constructed from the private dwellings to the common house.[32]
When Hall was living with the Esquimaux and grew tired of eating walrus, one of the women brought
the head and neck of a reindeer for him to eat. This venison had to be completely wrapt up
before it was brought into the house, and once in the house it could only be placed on the
platform which served as a bed. Thus in the Boulia district of Queensland the magical bone,
which the native sorcerer points at his victim as a means of killing him, is never by any chance
allowed to touch the earth.[35] The wives of rajahs in Macassar, a district of southern Celebes,
pride themselves on their luxuriant tresses and are at great pains to oil and preserve them.
Should the hair begin to grow thin, the lady resorts to many devices to stay the ravages of
time; among other things she applies to her locks a fat extracted from crocodiles and venomous
snakes. The unguent is believed to be very efficacious, but during its application the woman's
feet may not come into contact with the ground, or all the benefit of the nostrum would be
lost.[36] Some people in antiquity believed that a woman in hard labour would be delivered
if a spear, which had been wrenched from a man's body without touching the ground, were thrown
over the house where the sufferer lay. Again, according to certain ancient writers, arrows
which had been extracted from a body without coming into contact with the earth and laid under
sleepers, acted as a love-charm.[37] Among the peasantry of the north-east of Scotland the
prehistoric weapons called celts went by the name of "thunderbolts" and were coveted as the
sure bringers of success, always provided that they were not allowed to fall to the ground.[38]

[Serpents eggs or Snake Stones.]

In ancient Gaul certain glass or paste beads attained great celebrity as amulets under the
name of serpents' eggs; it was believed that serpents, coiling together in a wriggling, writhing
mass, generated them from their slaver and shot them into the air from their hissing jaws.
If a man was bold and dexterous enough to catch one of these eggs in his cloak before it touched
the ground, he rode off on horseback with it at full speed, pursued by the whole pack of serpents,
till he was saved by the interposition of a river, which the snakes could not pass. The proof
of the egg being genuine was that if it were thrown into a stream it would float up against
the current, even though it were hooped in gold. The Druids held these beads in high esteem;
according to them, the precious objects could only be obtained on a certain day of the moon,
and the peculiar virtue that resided in them was to secure success in law suits and free access
to kings. Pliny knew of a Gaulish knight who was executed by the emperor Claudius for wearing
one of these amulets.[39] Under the name of Snake Stones (glain neidr) or Adder Stones the
beads are still known in those parts of our own country where the Celtic population has lingered,
with its immemorial superstitions, down to the present or recent times; and the old story of
the origin of the beads from the slaver of serpents was believed by the modern peasantry of
Cornwall, Wales, and Scotland as by the Druids of ancient Gaul. In Cornwall the time when the
serpents united to fashion the beads was commonly said to be at or about Midsummer Eve; in
Wales it was usually thought to be spring, especially the Eve of May Day, and even within recent
years persons in the Principality have affirmed that they witnessed the great vernal congress
of the snakes and saw the magic stone in the midst of the froth. The Welsh peasants believe
the beads to possess medicinal virtues of many sorts and to be particularly efficacious for
all maladies of the eyes. In Wales and Ireland the beads sometimes went by the name of the
Magician's or Druid's Glass (Gleini na Droedh and Glaine nan Druidhe). Specimens of them may
be seen in museums; some have been found in British barrows. They are of glass of various colours,
green, blue, pink, red, brown, and so forth, some plain and some ribbed. Some are streaked
with brilliant hues. The beads are perforated, and in the Highlands of Scotland the hole is
explained by saying that when the bead has just been conflated by the serpents jointly, one
of the reptiles sticks his tail through the still viscous glass. An Englishman who visited
Scotland in 1699 found many of these beads in use throughout the country. They were hung from
children's necks to protect them from whooping cough and other ailments. Snake Stones were,
moreover, a charm to ensure prosperity in general and to repel evil spirits. When one of these
priceless treasures was not on active service, the owner kept it in an iron box to guard it
against fairies, who, as is well known, cannot abide iron.[40]

[Medicinal plants, water, are not allowed to touch the earth.]

Pliny mentions several medicinal plants, which, if they were to retain their healing virtue,
ought not to be allowed to touch the earth.[41] The curious medical treatise of Marcellus,
a native of Bordeaux in the fourth century of our era, abounds with prescriptions of this sort;
and we can well believe the writer when he assures us that he borrowed many of his quaint remedies
from the lips of common folk and peasants rather than from the books of the learned.[42] Thus
he tells us that certain white stones found in the stomachs of young swallows assuage the most
persistent headache, always provided that their virtue be not impaired by contact with the
ground.[43] Another of his cures for the same malady is a wreath of fleabane placed on the
head, but it must not touch the earth.[44] On the same condition a decoction of the root of
elecampane in wine kills worms; a fern, found growing on a tree, relieves the stomach-ache;
and the pastern-bone of a hare is an infallible remedy for colic, provided, first, it be found
in the dung of a wolf, second, that it docs not touch the ground, and, third, that it is not
touched by a woman.[45] Another cure for colic is effected by certain hocus-pocus with a scrap
of wool from the forehead of a first-born lamb, if only the lamb, instead of being allowed
to fall to the ground, has been caught by hand as it dropped from its dam.[46] In Andjra, a
district of Morocco, the people attribute many magical virtues to rain-water which has fallen
on the twenty-seventh day of April, Old Style; accordingly they collect it and use it for a
variety of purposes. Mixed with tar and sprinkled on the door-posts it prevents snakes and
scorpions from entering the house: sprinkled on heaps of threshed corn it protects them from
the evil eye: mixed with an egg, henna, and seeds of cress it is an invaluable medicine for
sick cows: poured over a plate, on which a passage of the Koran has been written, it strengthens
the memory of schoolboys who drink it; and if you mix it with cowdung and red earth and paint
rings with the mixture round the trunks of your fig-trees at sunset on Midsummer Day, you may
depend on it that the trees will bear an excellent crop and will not shed their fruit untimely
on the ground. But in order to preserve these remarkable properties it is absolutely essential
that the water should on no account be allowed to touch the ground; some say too that it should
not be exposed to the sun nor breathed upon by anybody.[47] Again, the Moors ascribe great
magical efficacy to what they call "the sultan of the oleander," which is a stalk of oleander
with a cluster of four pairs of leaves springing from it. They think that the magical virtue
is greatest if the stalk has been cut immediately before midsummer. But when the plant is brought
into the house, the branches may not touch the ground, lest they should lose their marvellous
qualities.[48] In the olden days, before a Lithuanian or Prussian farmer went forth to plough
for the first time in spring, he called in a wizard to perform a certain ceremony for the good
of the crops. The sage seized a mug of beer with his teeth, quaffed the liquor, and then tossed
the mug over his head. This signified that the corn in that year should grow taller than a
man. But the mug might not fall to the ground; it had to be caught by somebody stationed at
the wizard's back, for if it fell to the ground the consequence naturally would be that the
corn also would be laid low on the earth.[49]

§ 2. When she does go out, she must cover her head with a hood or mat; for if the sun were
to shine upon her, it is thought that one of her male relations would die.[58] Again, mourners
are everywhere taboo; accordingly in mourning the Ainos of Japan wear peculiar caps in order
that the sun may not shine upon their heads.[59] During a solemn fast of three days the Indians
of Costa Rica eat no salt, speak as little as possible, light no fires, and stay strictly indoors,
or if they go out during the day they carefully cover themselves from the light of the sun,
believing that exposure to the sun's rays would turn them black.[60] On Yule Night it has been
customary in parts of Sweden from time immemorial to go on pilgrimage, whereby people learn
many secret things and know what is to happen in the coming year. As a preparation for this
pilgrimage, "some secrete themselves for three days previously in a dark cellar, so as to be
shut out altogether from the light of heaven. Others retire at an early hour of the preceding
morning to some out-of-the-way place, such as a hay-loft, where they bury themselves in the
hay, that they may neither see nor hear any living creature; and here they remain, in silence
and fasting, until after sundown; whilst there are those who think it sufficient if they rigidly
abstain from food on the day before commencing their wanderings. During this period of probation
a man ought not to see fire, but should this have happened, he must strike a light with flint
and steel, whereby the evil that would otherwise have ensued will be obviated."[61] During
the sixteen days that a Pima Indian is undergoing purification for killing an Apache he may
not see a blazing fire.[62]

[The story of Prince Sunless.]

Acarnanian peasants tell of a handsome prince called Sunless, who would die if he saw the sun.
So he lived in an underground palace on the site of the ancient Oeniadae, but at night he came
forth and crossed the river to visit a famous enchantress who dwelt in a castle on the further
bank. She was loth to part with him every night long before the sun was up, and as he turned
a deaf ear to all her entreaties to linger, she hit upon the device of cutting the throats
of all the cocks in the neighbourhood. So the prince, whose ear had learned to expect the shrill
clarion of the birds as the signal of the growing light, tarried too long, and hardly had he
reached the ford when the sun rose over the Aetolian mountains, and its fatal beams fell on
him before he could regain his dark abode.[63]

Notes:

[1] The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, i. 44.

[2] H.H. Bancroft, Native Races of the Pacific States (London, 1875-1876), ii. 142; Brasseur
de Bourbourg, Histoire des Nations civilisées du Mexique et de l'Amérique-Centrale (Paris,
1857-1859), iii. 29.

[3] Manuscrit Ramirez, Histoire de l'origine des Indiens, publié par D. Charnay (Paris, 1903),
p. 108; J. de Acosta, The Natural and Moral History of the Indies, bk. vii. chap. 22, vol.
ii. p. 505 of E. Grimston's translation, edited by (Sir) Clements R. Markham (Hakluyt Society,
London, 1880).

[4] Memorials of the Empire of Japon in the XVI. and XVII. Centuries, edited by T. Rundall
(Hakluyt Society, London, 1850), pp. 14, 141; B. Varenius, Descriptio regni Japoniae et Siam
(Cambridge, 1673), p. 11; Caron, "Account of Japan," in John Pinkerton's Voyages and Travels
(London, 1808-1814), vii. 613; Kaempfer, "History of Japan," in id. vii. 716.

[5] W. Ellis, Polynesian Researches, Second Edition (London, 1832-1836), iii. 102 sq.; Captain
James Wilson, Missionary Voyage to the Southern Pacific Ocean (London, 1799), p. 329.

[6] A. Bastian, Der Mensch in der Geschichte (Leipsic, 1860), iii. 81.

[7] Athenaeus, xii. 8, p. 514 c.

[8] The Voiages and Travels of John Struys (London, 1684), p. 30.

[9] Rev. J. Roscoe, "Further Notes on the Manners and Customs of the Baganda," Journal of the
Anthropological Institute, xxxii. (1902) pp. 62, 67; id., The Baganda (London, 1911), pp. 154
sq. Compare L. Decle, Three Years in Savage Africa (London, 1898), p. 445 note: "Before horses
had been introduced into Uganda the king and his mother never walked, but always went about
perched astride the shoulders of a slave--a most ludicrous sight. In this way they often travelled
hundreds of miles." The use both of horses and of chariots by royal personages may often have
been intended to prevent their sacred feet from touching the ground.

[10] E. Torday et T.A. Joyce, Les Bushongo (Brussels, 1910), p. 61.

[11] Northcote W. Thomas, Anthropological Report on the Ibo-speaking Peoples of Nigeria (London,
1913), i. 57 sq.

[12] Satapatha Brâhmana, translated by Julius Eggeling, Part iii. (Oxford, 1894) pp. 81, 91,
92, 102, 128 sq. (Sacred Books of the East, vol. xli.).

[13] A.W. Nieuwenhuis, Quer durch Borneo (Leyden, 1904-1907), i. 172.

[14] Letter of Missionary Krick, in Annales de la Propagation de la Foi, xxvi. (1854) pp. 86-88.

[15] Pechuel-Loesche, "Indiscretes aus Loango," Zeitschrift für Ethnologie, x. (1878) pp. 29 sq.

[16] Edgar Thurston, Ethnographic Notes in Southern India (Madras, 1906), p. 70.

[17] M.C. Schadee, "Het familieleven en familierecht der Dajaks van Landak en Tajan," Bijdragen
tot de Taal-Land en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch-Indié, lxiii. (1910) p. 433.

[18] James Adair, History of the American Indians (London, 1775), p. 382; Narrative of the
Captivity and Adventures of John Tanner (London, 1830), p. 123. As to the taboos to which warriors
are subject see Taboo and the Perils of the Soul, pp. 157 sqq.

[19] Etienne Aymonier, Notes sur le Laos (Saigon, 1885), p. 26.

[20] Die gestritgelte Rockenphilosophie*[5] (Chemnitz, 1759), pp. 586 sqq.

[21] Baldwin Spencer and F.J. Gillen, Native Tribes of Central Australia (London, 1899), pp.
364, 370 sqq., 629; id., Across Australia (London, 1912), ii. 280, 285 sq.

[22] C.G. Seligmann, M.D., The Melanesians of British New Guinea (Cambridge, 1910), pp. 589-599.

[23] George Brown, D.D., Melanesians and Polynesians (London, 1910), pp. 60 sq., 64. As to
the Duk-duk society, see below, vol. ii. pp. 246 sq.

[24] John Keast Lord, The Naturalist in Vancouver Island and British Columbia (London, 1866),
ii. 237.

[25] Edwin James, Account of an Expedition from Pittsburgh to the Rocky Mountains (London,
1823), ii. 47; Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, "Omaha Sociology," Third Annual Report of the Bureau of
Ethnology (Washington, 1884), p. 226.

[26] James Adair, History of the American Indians (London, 1775), pp. 161-163.

[27] (Sir) Henry Babington Smith, in Folk-lore, v. (1894) p. 340.

[28] Miss C.F. Gordon Cumming, In the Hebrides (London, 1883), p. 211.

[29] W. Gregor, "Quelques coutumes du Nord-est du Comté d'Aberdeen," Revue des Traditions populaires,
iii. (1888) p. 485 B. Compare Spirits of the Corn and of the Wild, i. 158 sq.

[30] R. Brough Smyth, Aborigines of Victoria (Melbourne and London, 1878), i. 450.

[31] E. Gerard, The Land beyond the Forest (Edinburgh and London, 1888), ii. 7.

[32] F. Grabowsky, "Der Distrikt Dusson Timor in Südost-Borneo und seine Bewohner," Das Ausland,
1884, No. 24, p. 470.

[33] Narrative of the Second Arctic Expedition made by Charles F. Hall, edited by Prof. J.E.
Nourse (Washington, 1879), pp. 110 sq.

[34] See Taboo and Perils of the Soul, pp. 207 sqq.

[35] Walter E. Roth, Ethnological Studies among the North-West-Central Queensland Aborigines
(Brisbane and London, 1897), p. 156, § 265. The custom of killing a man by pointing a bone
or stick at him, while the sorcerer utters appropriate curses, is common among the tribes of
Central Australia; but amongst them there seems to be no objection to place the bone or stick
on the ground; on the contrary, an Arunta wizard inserts the bone or stick in the ground while
he invokes death and destruction on his enemy.

[36] Hugh Low, Sarawak (London, 1848), pp. 145 sq.

[37] Pliny, Naturalis Historia xxviii. 33 sq.

[38] Rev. Walter Gregor, Notes on the Folk-lore of the North-East of Scotland (London, 1881),
p. 184. As to the superstitions attaching to stone arrowheads and axeheads (celts), commonly
known as "thunderbolts," in the British Islands, see W.W. Skeat, "Snakestones and Stone Thunderbolts,"
Folklore, xxiii. (1912) pp. 60 sqq.; and as to such superstitions in general, see Chr. Blinkenberg,
The Thunderweapon in Religion and Folklore (Cambridge, 1911).

[39] Pliny, Naturalis Historia, xxix. 52-54.

[40] W. Borlase, Antiquities, Historical and Monumental, of the County of Cornwall (London,
1769), pp. 142 sq.; J. Brand, Popular Antiquities of Great Britain (London, 1882-1883), i.
322; J.G. Dalyell, Darker Superstitions of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1834), pp. 140 sq.; Daniel
Wilson, The Archaeology and Prehistoric Annals of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1851), pp. 303 sqq.;
Lieut.-Col. Forbes Leslie, The Early Races of Scotland and their Monuments (Edinburgh, 1866),
i. 75 sqq.; J.G. Campbell, Witchcraft and Second Sight in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland
(Glasgow, 1902), pp. 84-88; Marie Trevelyan, Folk-lore and Folk-stories of Wales (London, 1909),
pp. 170 sq.; J.C. Davies, Folk-lore of West and Mid-Wales (Aberystwyth, 1911), p. 76. Compare
W.W. Skeat, "Snakestones and Stone Thunderbolts," Folk-lore, xxiii. (1912) pp. 45 sqq. The
superstition is described as follows by Edward Lhwyd in a letter quoted by W. Borlase (op.
cit. p. 142): "In most parts of Wales, and throughout all Scotland, and in Cornwall, we find
it a common opinion of the vulgar, that about Midsummer-Eve (though in the time they do not
all agree) it is usual for snakes to meet in companies; and that, by joining heads together,
and hissing, a kind of bubble is formed, which the rest, by continual hissing, blow on till
it passes quite through the body, and then it immediately hardens, and resembles a glass-ring,
which whoever finds (as some old women and children are persuaded) shall prosper in all his
undertakings. The rings thus generated, are called Gleineu Nadroeth; in English, Snake-stones.
They are small glass amulets, commonly about half as wide as our finger-rings, but much thicker,
of a green colour usually, though sometimes blue, and waved with red and white."

[41] Pliny, Naturalis Historia xxiv. 12 and 68, xxv. 171.

[42] Marcellus, De medicamentis, ed. G. Helmreich (Leipsic, 1889), preface, p. i.: "Nec solum
veteres medicinae artis auctores Latino dumtaxat sermone perscriptos ... lectione scrutatus
sum, sed etiam ab agrestibus et plebeis remedia fortuita atque simplicia, quae experimentis
probaverant didici." As to Marcellus and his work, see Jacob Grimm, "Ueber Marcellus Burdigalensis,"
Abhandlungen der koniglichen Akademie der Wissenschaft zu Berlin, 1847, pp. 429-460; id., "Ueber
die Marcellischen Formeln," ibid.. 1855, pp. 50-68.

[43] Marcellus, De medicamentis, i. 68.

[44] Marcellus, op. cit. i. 76.

[45] Marcellus, op. cit. xxviii. 28 and 71, xxix. 35.

[46] Marcellus, op. cit. xxix. 51.

[47] Edward Westermarck, "Midsummer Customs in Morocco," Folklore, xvi. (1905) pp. 32 sq.;
id., Ceremonies and Beliefs connected with Agriculture, certain Dates of the Solar Year, and
the Weather in Morocco (Helsingfors, 1913), pp. 75 sq.

[48] E. Westermarck, "Midsummer Customs in Morocco," Folk-lore, xvi.

[51] Kaempfer, "History of Japan," in J. Pinkerton's Voyages and Travels, vii. 717; Caron,
"Account of Japan," ibid. vii.

[52] A. de Herrera, General History of the vast Continent and Islands of America, trans, by
Capt. John Stevens (London, 1725-1726), v. 88.

[53] H. Ternaux-Compans, Essai sur l'ancien Cundinamarca (Paris, N.D.), p. 56; Theodor Waitz,
Anthropologie der Naturvölker iv. (Leipsic, 1864) p. 359.

[54] Alonzo de Zurita, "Rapport sur les differentes classes de chefs de la Nouvelle-Espagne,"
p. 30, in H. Ternaux-Compans's Voyages, Relations et Mémoires originaux, pour servir à l'Histoire
de la Découvertede l'Amérique (Paris, 1840); Th. Waitz, l.c.; A. Bastian, Die Culturländer
des alten Amerika (Berlin, 1878), ii. 204.

[55] Cieza de Leon, Second Part of the Chronicle of Peru (Hakluyt Society, London, 1883), p. 18.

[56] The Grihya Sûtras, translated by H. Oldenberg, Part ii. (Oxford, 1892) pp. 165, 275 (Sacred
Books of the East, vol. xxx.). Umbrellas appear to have been sometimes used in ritual for the
purpose of preventing the sunlight from falling on sacred persons or things. See W. Caland,
Altindisches Zauberritual (Amsterdam, 1900), p. 110 note 12. At an Athenian festival called
Scira the priestess of Athena, the priest of Poseidon, and the priest of the Sun walked from
the Acropolis under the shade of a huge white umbrella which was borne over their heads by
the Eteobutads. See Harpocration and Suidas, s.v. [Greek: Skiron]; Scholiast on Aristophanes,
Eccles. 18.

[57] Mrs. Bishop, Korea and her Neighbours (London, 1898), ii. 248.

[58] J.L. van Hasselt, "Eenige aanteekeningen aangaande de bewoners der N. Westkust van Nieuw
Guinea," Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-Landen Volkenkunde, xxxi. (1886) p. 587.

[59] A. Bastian, Die Völker des östlichen Asien, v. (Jena, 1869) p. 366.

[60] W.M. Gabb, "On the Indian Tribes and Languages of Costa Rica," Proceedings of the American
Philosophical Society held at Philadelphia, xiv. (Philadelphia, 1876), p. 510.

[61] L. Lloyd, Peasant Life in Sweden (London, 1870), p. 194.

[62] H.H. Bancroft, Native Races of the Pacific States, i. 553. See Taboo and the Perils of
the Soul, p. 182.

[63] L. Heuzey, Le Mont Olympe et l'Acarnanie (Paris, 1860), pp. 458 sq.

CHAPTER II

THE SECLUSION OF GIRLS AT PUBERTY

§ 1. And should she be overtaken by the first flow while she is in the fields, she must, after
hiding in the bush, scrupulously avoid all pathways in returning home.[66] A reason for this
avoidance is assigned by the A-Kamba of British East Africa, whose girls under similar circumstances
observe the same rule. "A girl's first menstruation is a very critical period of her life according
to A-Kamba beliefs. If this condition appears when she is away from the village, say at work
in the fields, she returns at once to her village, but is careful to walk through the grass
and not on a path, for if she followed a path and a stranger accidentally trod on a spot of
blood and then cohabited with a member of the opposite sex before the girl was better again,
it is believed that she would never bear a child." She remains at home till the symptoms have
ceased, and during this time she may be fed by none but her mother. When the flux is over,
her father and mother are bound to cohabit with each other, else it is believed that the girl
would be barren all her life.[67] Similarly, among the Baganda, when a girl menstruated for
the first time she was secluded and not allowed to handle food; and at the end of her seclusion
the kinsman with whom she was staying (for among the Baganda young people did not reside with
their parents) was obliged to jump over his wife, which with the Baganda is regarded as equivalent
to having intercourse with her. Should the girl happen to be living near her parents at the
moment when she attained to puberty, she was expected on her recovery to inform them of the
fact, whereupon her father jumped over her mother. Were this custom omitted, the Baganda, like
the A-Kamba, thought that the girl would never have children or that they would die in infancy.[68]
Thus the pretence of sexual intercourse between the parents or other relatives of the girl
was a magical ceremony to ensure her fertility. It is significant that among the Baganda the
first menstruation was often called a marriage, and the girl was spoken of as a bride.[69]
These terms so applied point to a belief like that of the Siamese, that a girl's first menstruation
results from her defloration by one of a host of aerial spirits, and that the wound thus inflicted
is repeated afterwards every month by the same ghostly agency.[70] For a like reason, probably,
the Baganda imagine that a woman who does not menstruate exerts a malign influence on gardens
and makes them barren[71] if she works in them. For not being herself fertilized by a spirit,
how can she fertilize the garden?

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the tribes of the Tanganyika plateau.]

Among the Amambwe, Winamwanga, Alungu, and other tribes of the great plateau to the west of
Lake Tanganyika, "when a young girl knows that she has attained puberty, she forthwith leaves
her mother's hut, and hides herself in the long grass near the village, covering her face with
a cloth and weeping bitterly. Towards sunset one of the older women--who, as directress of
the ceremonies, is called nachimbusa-- follows her, places a cooking-pot by the cross-roads,
and boils therein a concoction of various herbs, with which she anoints the neophyte. At nightfall
the girl is carried on the old woman's back to her mother's hut. When the customary period
of a few days has elapsed, she is allowed to cook again, after first whitewashing the floor
of the hut. But, by the following month, the preparations for her initiation are complete.
The novice must remain in her hut throughout the whole period of initiation, and is carefully
guarded by the old women, who accompany her whenever she leaves her quarters, veiling her head
with a native cloth. The ceremonies last for at least one month." During this period of seclusion,
drumming and songs are kept up within the mother's hut by the village women, and no male, except,
it is said, the father of twins, is allowed to enter. The directress of the rites and the older
women instruct the young girl as to the elementary facts of life, the duties of marriage, and
the rules of conduct, decorum, and hospitality to be observed by a married woman. Amongst other
things the damsel must submit to a series of tests such as leaping over fences, thrusting her
head into a collar made of thorns, and so on. The lessons which she receives are illustrated
by mud figures of animals and of the common objects of domestic life. Moreover, the directress
of studies embellishes the walls of the hut with rude pictures, each with its special significance
and song, which must be understood and learned by the girl.[72] In the foregoing account the
rule that a damsel at puberty may neither see the sun nor touch the ground seems implied by
the statement that on the first discovery of her condition she hides in long grass and is carried
home after sunset on the back of an old woman.

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the tribes of British Central Africa.]

Among the Nyanja-speaking tribes of Central Angoniland, in British Central Africa, when a young
girl finds that she has become a woman, she stands silent by the pathway leading to the village,
her face wrapt in her calico. An old woman, finding her there, takes her off to a stream to
bathe; after that the girl is secluded for six days in the old woman's hut. She eats her porridge
out of an old basket and her relish, in which no salt is put, from a potsherd. The basket is
afterwards thrown away. On the seventh day the aged matrons gather together, go with the girl
to a stream, and throw her into the water. In returning they sing songs, and the old woman,
who directs the proceedings, carries the maiden on her back. Then they spread a mat and fetch
her husband and set the two down on the mat and shave his head. When it is dark, the old women
escort the girl to her husband's hut. There the ndiwo relish is cooking on the fire. During
the night the woman rises and puts some salt in the pot. Next morning, before dawn, while all
is dark and the villagers have not yet opened their doors, the young married woman goes off
and gives some of the relish to her mother and to the old woman who was mistress of the ceremony.
This relish she sets down at the doors of their houses and goes away. And in the morning, when
the sun has risen and all is light in the village, the two women open their doors, and there
they find the relish with the salt in it; and they take of it and rub it on their feet and
under their arm-pits; and if there are little children in the house, they eat of it. And if
the young wife has a kinsman who is absent from the village, some of the relish is put on a
splinter of bamboo and kept against his return, that when he comes he, too, may rub his feet
with it. But if the woman finds that her husband is impotent, she does not rise betimes and
go out in the dark to lay the relish at the doors of her mother and the old woman. And in the
morning, when the sun is up and all the village is light, the old women open their doors, and
see no relish there, and they know what has happened, and so they go wilily to work. For they
persuade the husband to consult the diviner that he may discover how to cure his impotence;
and while he is closeted with the wizard, they fetch another man, who finishes the ceremony
with the young wife, in order that the relish may be given out and that people may rub their
feet with it. But if it happens that when a girl comes to maturity she is not yet betrothed
to any man, and therefore has no husband to go to, the matrons tell her that she must go to
a lover instead. And this is the custom which they call chigango. So in the evening she takes
her cooking pot and relish and hies away to the quarters of the young bachelors, and they very
civilly sleep somewhere else that night. And in the morning the girl goes back to the kuka hut.[73]

[Abstinence from salt associated with a rule of chastity in many tribes.]

From the foregoing account it appears that among these tribes no sooner has a girl attained
to womanhood than she is expected and indeed required to give proof of her newly acquired powers
by cohabiting with a man, whether her husband or another. And the abstinence from salt during
the girl's seclusion is all the more remarkable because as soon as the seclusion is over she
has to use salt for a particular purpose, to which the people evidently attach very great importance,
since in the event of her husband proving impotent she is even compelled, apparently, to commit
adultery in order that the salted relish may be given out as usual. In this connexion it deserves
to be noted that among the Wagogo of German East Africa women at their monthly periods may
not sleep with their husbands and may not put salt in food.[74] A similar rule is observed
by the Nyanja-speaking tribes of Central Angoniland, with whose puberty customs we are here
concerned. Among them, we are told, "some superstition exists with regard to the use of salt.
A woman during her monthly sickness must on no account put salt into any food she is cooking,
lest she give her husband or children a disease called tsempo (chitsoko soko) but calls a child
to put it in, or, as the song goes, 'Natira nichere ni bondo chifukwa n'kupanda mwana' and
pours in the salt by placing it on her knee, because there is no child handy. Should a party
of villagers have gone to make salt, all sexual intercourse is forbidden among the people of
the village, until the people who have gone to make the salt (from grass) return. When they
do come back, they must make their entry into the village at night, and no one must see them.
Then one of the elders of the village sleeps with his wife. She then cooks some relish, into
which she puts some of the salt. This relish is handed round to the people who went to make
the salt, who rub it on their feet and under their armpits."[75] Hence it would seem that in
the mind of these people abstinence from salt is somehow associated with the idea of chastity.
The same association meets us in the customs of many peoples in various parts of the world.
For example, ancient Hindoo ritual prescribed that for three nights after a husband had brought
his bride home, the two should sleep on the ground, remain chaste, and eat no salt.[76] Among
the Baganda, when a man was making a net, he had to refrain from eating salt and meat and from
living with his wife; these restrictions he observed until the net took its first catch of
fish. Similarly, so long as a fisherman's nets or traps were in the water, he must live apart
from his wife, and neither he nor she nor their children might eat salt or meat.[77] Evidence
of the same sort could be multiplied,[78] but without going into it further we may say that
for some reason which is not obvious to us primitive man connects salt with the intercourse
of the sexes and therefore forbids the use of that condiment in a variety of circumstances
in which he deems continence necessary or desirable. As there is nothing which the savage regards
as a greater bar between the sexes than the state of menstruation, he naturally prohibits the
use of salt to women and girls at their monthly periods. After that the girl remains for a
year in the large common hut (tembe), where she occupies a special compartment screened off
from the men's quarters. She may not cut her hair or touch food, but is fed by other women.
At night, however, she quits the hut and dances with young men.[80] Among the Barotse or Marotse
of the upper Zambesi, "when a girl arrives at the age of puberty she is sent into the fields,
where a hut is constructed far from the village. There, with two or three companions, she spends
a month, returning home late and starting before dawn in order not to be seen by the men. The
women of the village visit her, bringing food and honey, and singing and dancing to amuse her.
At the end of a month her husband comes and fetches her. It is only after this ceremony that
women have the right to smear themselves with ochre."[81] We may suspect that the chief reason
why the girl during her seclusion may visit her home only by night is a fear, not so much lest
she should be seen by men, as that she might be seen by the sun. Among the Wafiomi, as we have
just learned, the young woman in similar circumstances is even free to dance with men, provided
always that the dance is danced at night. The ceremonies among the Barotse or Marotse are somewhat
more elaborate for a girl of the royal family. She is shut up for three months in a place which
is kept secret from the public; only the women of her family know where it is. There she sits
alone in the darkness of the hut, waited on by female slaves, who are strictly forbidden to
speak and may communicate with her and with each other only by signs. During all this time,
though she does nothing, she eats much, and when at last she comes forth, her appearance is
quite changed, so fat has she grown. She is then led by night to the river and bathed in presence
of all the women of the village. Next day she flaunts before the public in her gayest attire,
her head bedecked with ornaments and her face mottled with red paint. So everybody knows what
has happened.[82]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Thonga on Delagoa Bay.]

Among the northern clans of the Thonga tribe, in South-Eastern Africa, about Delagoa Bay, when
a girl thinks that the time of her nubility is near, she chooses an adoptive mother, perhaps
in a neighbouring village. When the symptoms appear, she flies away from her own village and
repairs to that of her adopted mother "to weep near her." After that she is secluded with several
other girls in the same condition for a month. They are shut up in a hut, and whenever they
come outside they must wear a dirty greasy cloth over their faces as a veil. Every morning
they are led to a pool and plunged in the water up to their necks. Initiated girls or women
accompany them, singing obscene songs and driving away with sticks any man who meets them;
for no man may see a girl during this time of seclusion. If he saw her, it is said that he
would be struck blind. On their return from the river, the girls are again imprisoned in the
hut, where they remain wet and shivering, for they may not go near the fire to warm themselves.
During their seclusion they listen to lascivious songs sung by grown women and are instructed
in sexual matters. At the end of the month the adoptive mother brings the girl home to her
true mother and presents her with a pot of beer.[83]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Caffre tribes of South Africa.]

Among the Caffre tribes of South Africa the period of a girl's seclusion at puberty varies
with the rank of her father. If he is a rich man, it may last twelve days; if he is a chief,
it may last twenty-four days.[84] And when it is over, the girl rubs herself over with red
earth, and strews finely powdered red earth on the ground, before she leaves the hut where
she has been shut up. Finally, though she was forbidden to drink milk all the days of her separation,
she washes out her mouth with milk, and is from that moment regarded as a full-grown woman.[85]
Afterwards, in the dusk of the evening, she carries away all the objects with which she came
into contact in the hut during her seclusion and buries them secretly in a sequestered spot.[86]
When the girl is a chief's daughter the ceremonies at her liberation from the hut are more
elaborate than usual. She is led forth from the hut by a son of her father's councillor, who,
wearing the wings of a blue crane, the badge of bravery, on his head, escorts her to the cattle
kraal, where cows are slaughtered and dancing takes place. Large skins full of milk are sent
to the spot from neighbouring villages; and after the dances are over the girl drinks milk
for the first time since the day she entered into retreat. But the first mouthful is drunk
by the girl's aunt or other female relative who had charge of her during her seclusion; and
a little of it is poured on the fire-place.[87] Amongst the Zulus, when the girl was a princess
royal, the end of her time of separation was celebrated by a sort of saturnalia: law and order
were for the time being in abeyance: every man, woman, and child might appropriate any article
of property: the king abstained from interfering; and if during this reign of misrule he was
robbed of anything he valued he could only recover it by paying a fine.[88] Among the Basutos,
when girls at puberty are bathed as usual by the matrons in a river, they are hidden separately
in the turns and bends of the stream, and told to cover their heads, as they will be visited
by a large serpent. Their limbs are then plastered with clay, little masks of straw are put
on their faces, and thus arrayed they daily follow each other in procession, singing melancholy
airs, to the fields, there to learn the labours of husbandry in which a great part of their
adult life will be passed.[89] We may suppose, though we are not told, that the straw masks
which they wear in these processions are intended to hide their faces from the gaze of men
and the rays of the sun.

[Seclusion of girls at puberty in the Lower Congo.]

Among the tribes in the lower valley of the Congo, such as the Bavili, when a girl arrives
at puberty, she has to pass two or three months in seclusion in a small hut built for the purpose.
The hair of her head is shaved off, and every day the whole of her body is smeared with a red
paint (takulla) made from a powdered wood mixed with water. Some of her companions reside in
the hut with her and prepare the paint for her use. A woman is appointed to take charge of
the hut and to keep off intruders. At the end of her confinement she is taken to water by the
women of her family and bathed; the paint is rubbed off her body, her arms and legs are loaded
with brass rings, and she is led in solemn procession under an umbrella to her husband's house.
If these ceremonies were not performed, the people believe that the girl would be barren or
would give birth to monsters, that the rain would cease to fall, the earth to bear fruit, and
the fishing to be successful.[90] Such serious importance do these savages ascribe to the performance
of rites which to us seem so childish.

§ 2. He says: "A buck is the name of a little house, not larger than an ordinary hen-coop,
in which a little girl is shut up, sometimes for weeks only, and at other times for months....
Briefly stated, the custom is this. Girls, on attaining puberty or betrothal, are enclosed
in one of these little coops for a considerable time. They must remain there night and day.
We saw two of these girls in two coops; the girls were not more than ten years old, still they
were lying in a doubled-up position, as their little houses would not admit of them lying in
any other way. These two coops were inside a large house; but the chief, in consideration of
a present of a couple of tomahawks, ordered the ends to be torn out of the house to admit the
light, so that we might photograph the buck. The occupant was allowed to put her face through
an opening to be photographed, in consideration of another present."[92] As a consequence of
their long enforced idleness in the shade the girls grow fat and their dusky complexion bleaches
to a more pallid hue. During her seclusion she is in charge of her aunts or other female relatives.
At the end of the time she bathes, her person is loaded with ornaments, her face is grotesquely
painted with red stripes on a white ground, and thus adorned she is brought forth in public
to be admired by everybody. Thus the Larrakeeyah tribe in the northern territory of South Australia
used to cover a girl up with dirt for three days at her first monthly period.[101] In similar
circumstances the Otati tribe, on the east coast of the Cape York Peninsula, make an excavation
in the ground, where the girl squats. A bower is then built over the hole, and sand is thrown
on the young woman till she is covered up to the hips. In this condition she remains for the
first day, but comes out at night. So long as the period lasts, she stays in the bower during
the day-time, but is not again covered with sand. Afterwards her body is painted red and white
from the head to the hips, and she returns to the camp, where she squats first on the right
side, then on the left side, and then on the lap of her future husband, who has been previously
selected for her.[102] Among the natives of the Pennefather River, in the Cape York Peninsula,
Queensland, when a girl menstruates for the first time, her mother takes her away from the
camp to some secluded spot, where she digs a circular hole in the sandy soil under the shade
of a tree. In this hole the girl squats with crossed legs and is covered with sand from the
waist downwards. A digging-stick is planted firmly in the sand on each side of her, and the
place is surrounded by a fence of bushes except in front, where her mother kindles a fire.
Here the girl stays all day, sitting with her arms crossed and the palms of her hands resting
on the sand. She may not move her arms except to take food from her mother or to scratch herself;
and in scratching herself she may not touch herself with her own hands, but must use for the
purpose a splinter of wood, which, when it is not in use, is stuck in her hair. She may speak
to nobody but her mother; indeed nobody else would think of coming near her. At evening she
lays hold of the two digging-sticks and by their help frees herself from the superincumbent
weight of sand and returns to the camp. Next morning she is again buried in the sand under
the shade of the tree and remains there again till evening. This she does daily for five days.
On her return at evening on the fifth day her mother decorates her with a waist-band, a forehead-band,
and a necklet of pearl-shell, ties green parrot feathers round her arms and wrists and across
her chest, and smears her body, back and front, from the waist upwards with blotches of red,
white, and yellow paint. She has in like manner to be buried in the sand at her second and
third menstruations, but at the fourth she is allowed to remain in camp, only signifying her
condition by wearing a basket of empty shells on her back.[103] Among the Kia blacks of the
Prosperine River, on the east coast of Queensland, a girl at puberty has to sit or lie down
in a shallow pit away from the camp; a rough hut of bushes is erected over her to protect her
from the inclemency of the weather. There she stays for about a week, waited on by her mother
and sister, the only persons to whom she may speak. She is allowed to drink water, but may
not touch it with her hands; and she may scratch herself a little with a mussel-shell. This
seclusion is repeated at her second and third monthly periods, but when the third is over she
is brought to her husband bedecked with savage finery. Eagle-hawk or cockatoo feathers are
stuck in her hair: a shell hangs over her forehead: grass bugles encircle her neck and an apron
of opossum skin her waist: strings are tied to her arms and wrists; and her whole body is mottled
with patterns drawn in red, white, and yellow pigments and charcoal.[104]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty in the islands of Torres Straits.]

Among the Uiyumkwi tribe in Red Island the girl lies at full length in a shallow trench dug
in the foreshore, and sand is lightly thrown over her legs and body up to the breasts, which
appear not to be covered. A rough shelter of boughs is then built over her, and thus she remains
lying for a few hours. Then she and her attendant go into the bush and look for food, which
they cook at a fire close to the shelter. They sleep under the boughs, the girl remaining secluded
from the camp but apparently not being again buried. At the end of the symptoms she stands
over hot stones and water is poured over her, till, trickling from her body on the stones,
it is converted into steam and envelops her in a cloud of vapour. Then she is painted with
red and white stripes and returns to the camp. If her future husband has already been chosen,
she goes to him and they eat some food together, which the girl has previously brought from
the bush.[105] In Prince of Wales Island, Torres Strait, the treatment of the patient is similar,
but lasts for about two months. During the day she lies covered up with sand in a shallow hole
on the beach, over which a hut is built. At night she may get out of the hole, but she may
not leave the hut. Her paternal aunt looks after her, and both of them must abstain from eating
turtle, dugong, and the heads of fish. Were they to eat the heads of fish no more fish would
be caught. During the time of the girl's seclusion, the aunt who waits upon her has the right
to enter any house and take from it anything she likes without payment, provided she does so
before the sun rises. When the time of her retirement has come to an end, the girl bathes in
the sea while the morning star is rising, and after performing various other ceremonies is
readmitted to society.[106] In Saibai, another island of Torres Straits, at her first monthly
sickness a girl lives secluded in the forest for about a fortnight, during which no man may
see her; even the women who have spoken to her in the forest must wash in salt water before
they speak to a man. Two girls wait upon and feed the damsel, putting the food into her mouth,
for she is not allowed to touch it with her own hands. Nor may she eat dugong and turtle. At
the end of a fortnight the girl and her attendants bathe in salt water while the tide is running
out. Afterwards they are clean, may again speak to men without ceremony, and move freely about
the village. In Yam and Tutu a girl at puberty retires for a month to the forest, where no
man nor even her own mother may look upon her. She is waited on by women who stand to her in
a certain relationship (mowai), apparently her paternal aunts. She is blackened all over with
charcoal and wears a long petticoat reaching below her knees. During her seclusion the married
women of the village often assemble in the forest and dance, and the girl's aunts relieve the
tedium of the proceedings by thrashing her from time to time as a useful preparation for matrimony.
At the end of a month the whole party go into the sea, and the charcoal is washed off the girl.
After that she is decorated, her body blackened again, her hair reddened with ochre, and in
the evening she is brought back to her father's house, where she is received with weeping and
lamentation because she has been so long away.[107]

§ 4. Some form of public ceremony, often accompanied by a dance and sometimes by a form of
ordeal for the girl, was practised nearly everywhere. Such ceremonies were well developed in
Southern California, where a number of actions symbolical of the girl's maturity and subsequent
life were performed."[108] Thus among the Maidu Indians of California a girl at puberty remained
shut up in a small separate hut. For five days she might not eat flesh or fish nor feed herself,
but was fed by her mother or other old woman. She had a basket, plate, and cup for her own
use, and a stick with which to scratch her head, for she might not scratch it with her fingers.
At the end of five days she took a warm bath and, while she still remained in the hut and plied
the scratching-stick on her head, was privileged to feed herself with her own hands. After
five days more she bathed in the river, after which her parents gave a great feast in her honour.
At the feast the girl was dressed in her best, and anybody might ask her parents for anything
he pleased, and they had to give it, even if it was the hand of their daughter in marriage.
During the period of her seclusion in the hut the girl was allowed to go by night to her parents'
house and listen to songs sung by her friends and relations, who assembled for the purpose.
Among the songs were some that related to the different roots and seeds which in these tribes
it is the business of women to gather for food. While the singers sang, she sat by herself
in a corner of the house muffled up completely in mats and skins; no man or boy might come
near her.[109] Among the Hupa, another Indian tribe of California, when a girl had reached
maturity her male relatives danced all night for nine successive nights, while the girl remained
apart, eating no meat and blindfolded. But on the tenth night she entered the house and took
part in the last dance.[110] Among the Wintun, another Californian tribe, a girl at puberty
was banished from the camp and lived alone in a distant booth, fasting rigidly from animal
food; it was death to any person to touch or even approach her.[111]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Indians of Washington State.]

In the interior of Washington State, about Colville, "the customs of the Indians, in relation
to the treatment of females, are singular. On the first appearance of the menses, they are
furnished with provisions, and sent into the woods, to remain concealed for two days; for they
have a superstition, that if a man should be seen or met with during that time, death will
be the consequence. At the end of the second day, the woman is permitted to return to the lodge,
when she is placed in a hut just large enough for her to lie in at full length, in which she
is compelled to remain for twenty days, cut off from all communication with her friends, and
is obliged to hide her face at the appearance of a man. Provisions are supplied her daily.
After this, she is required to perform repeated ablutions, before she can resume her place
in the family. In some parts of the islands separate fires were provided for the girls, and
they went out and in by a separate door at the back of the house. If a girl at such a time
was obliged to go out by the front door, all the weapons, gambling-sticks, medicine, and other
articles had to be removed from the house till her return, for otherwise it was thought that
they would be unlucky; and if there was a good hunter in the house, he also had to go out at
the same time on pain of losing his good luck if he remained. During several months or even
half a year the girl was bound to wear a peculiar cloak or hood made of cedar-bark, nearly
conical in shape and reaching down below the breast, but open before the face. After the twenty
days were over the girl took a bath; none of the water might be spilled, it had all to be taken
back to the woods, else the girl would not live long. On the west coast of the islands the
damsel might eat nothing but black cod for four years; for the people believed that other kinds
of fish would become scarce if she partook of them. At Kloo the young woman at such times was
forbidden to look at the sea, and for forty days she might not gaze at the fire; for a whole
year she might not walk on the beach below high-water mark, because then the tide would come
in, covering part of the food supply, and there would be bad weather. For five years she might
not eat salmon, or the fish would be scarce; and when her family went to a salmon-creek, she
landed from the canoe at the mouth of the creek and came to the smoke-house from behind; for
were she to see a salmon leap, all the salmon might leave the creek. At this time they are
careful that the dishes out of which they eat, are used by no other person, and wholly devoted
to their own use; during this period they eat nothing but dog fish, and starvation only will
drive them to eat either fresh fish or meat. When their first periodical sickness comes on,
they are fed by their mothers or nearest female relation by themselves, and on no account will
they touch their food with their own hands. They are at this time also careful not to touch
their heads with their hands, and keep a small stick to scratch their heads with. They remain
outside the lodge, all the time they are in this state, in a hut made for the purpose. During
all this period they wear a skull-cap made of skin to fit very tight; this is never taken off
until their first monthly sickness ceases; they also wear a strip of black paint about one
inch wide across their eyes, and wear a fringe of shells, bones, etc., hanging down from their
foreheads to below their eyes; and this is never taken off till the second monthly period arrives
and ceases, when the nearest male relative makes a feast; after which she is considered a fully
matured woman; but she has to refrain from eating anything fresh for one year after her first
monthly sickness; she may however eat partridge, but it must be cooked in the crop of the bird
to render it harmless. I would have thought it impossible to perform this feat had I not seen
it done. The crop is blown out, and a small bent willow put round the mouth; it is then filled
with water, and the meat being first minced up, put in also, then put on the fire and boiled
till cooked. Their reason for hanging fringes before their eyes, is to hinder any bad medicine
man from harming them during this critical period: they are very careful not to drink whilst
facing a medicine man, and do so only when their backs are turned to him. All these habits
are left off when the girl is a recognised woman, with the exception of their going out of
the lodge and remaining in a hut, every time their periodical sickness comes on. This is a
rigidly observed law with both single and married women."[120]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Tinneh Indians of Alaska.]

Among the Hareskin Tinneh a girl at puberty was secluded for five days in a hut made specially
for the purpose; she might only drink out of a tube made from a swan's bone, and for a month
she might not break a hare's bones, nor taste blood, nor eat the heart or fat of animals, nor
birds' eggs.[121] Among the Tinneh Indians of the middle Yukon valley, in Alaska, the period
of the girl's seclusion lasts exactly a lunar month; for the day of the moon on which the symptoms
first occur is noted, and she is sequestered until the same day of the next moon. If the season
is winter, a corner of the house is curtained off for her use by a blanket or a sheet of canvas;
if it is summer, a small tent is erected for her near the common one. Here she lives and sleeps.
She wears a long robe and a large hood, which she must pull down over her eyes whenever she
leaves the hut, and she must keep it down till she returns. She may not speak to a man nor
see his face, much less touch his clothes or anything that belongs to him; for if she did so,
though no harm would come to her, he would grow unmanly. She has her own dishes for eating
out of and may use no other; at Kaltag she must suck the water through a swan's bone without
applying her lips to the cup. She may eat no fresh meat or fish except the flesh of the porcupine.
She may not undress, but sleeps with all her clothes on, even her mittens. In her socks she
wears, next to the skin, the horny soles cut from the feet of a porcupine, in order that for
the rest of her life her shoes may never wear out. Round her waist she wears a cord to which
are tied the heads of femurs of a porcupine; because of all animals known to the Tinneh the
porcupine suffers least in parturition, it simply drops its young and continues to walk or
skip about as if nothing had happened. Hence it is easy to see that a girl who wears these
portions of a porcupine about her waist, will be delivered just as easily as the animal. To
make quite sure of this, if anybody happens to kill a porcupine big with young while the girl
is undergoing her period of separation, the foetus is given to her, and she lets it slide down
between her shirt and her body so as to fall on the ground like an infant.[122] Here the imitation
of childbirth is a piece of homoeopathic or imitative magic designed to facilitate the effect
which it simulates.[123]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Thompson Indians of British Columbia.]

Among the Thompson Indians of British Columbia, when a girl attained puberty, she was at once
separated from all the people. A conical hut of fir branches and bark was erected at some little
distance from the other houses, and in it the girl had to squat on her heels during the day.
Often a deep circular hole was dug in the hut and the girl squatted in the hole, with her head
projecting above the surface of the ground. She might quit the hut for various purposes in
the early morning, but had always to be back at sunrise. On the first appearance of the symptoms
her face was painted red all over, and the paint was renewed every morning during her term
of seclusion. A heavy blanket swathed her body from top to toe, and during the first four days
she wore a conical cap made of small fir branches, which reached below the breast but left
an opening for the face. In her hair was fastened an implement made of deer-bone with which
she scratched herself. For the first four days she might neither wash nor eat, but a little
water was given her in a birch-bark cup painted red, and she sucked up the liquid through a
tube made out of the leg of a crane, a swan, or a goose, for her lips might not touch the surface
of the water. After the four days she was allowed, during the rest of the period of isolation,
to eat, to wash, to lie down, to comb her hair, and to drink of streams and springs. But in
drinking at these sources she had still to use her tube, otherwise the spring would dry up.
While her seclusion lasted she performed by night various ceremonies, which were supposed to
exert a beneficial influence on her future life. For example, she ran as fast as she could,
praying at the same time to the Earth or Nature that she might be fleet of foot and tireless
of limb. She dug trenches, in order that in after life she might be able to dig well and to
work hard. These and other ceremonies she repeated for four nights or mornings in succession,
four times each morning, and each time she supplicated the Dawn of the Day. Among the Lower
Thompson Indians she carried a staff for one night; and when the day was breaking she leaned
the staff against the stump of a tree and prayed to the Dawn that she might be blessed with
a good husband, who was symbolized by the staff. She also wandered some nights to lonely parts
of the mountains, where she would dance, imploring the spirits to pity and protect her during
her future life; then, the dance and prayer over, she would lie down on the spot and fall asleep.
Again, she carried four stones in her bosom to a spring, where she spat upon the stones and
threw them one after the other into the water, praying that all disease might leave her, as
these stones did. Also she ran four times in the early morning with two small stones in her
bosom; and as she ran the stones slipped down between her bare body and her clothes and fell
to the ground. At the same time she prayed to the Dawn that when she should be with child,
she might be delivered as easily as she was delivered of these stones. But whatever exercises
she performed or prayers she offered on the lonely mountains during the hours of darkness or
while the morning light was growing in the east, she must always be back in her little hut
before the sun rose. There she often passed the tedious hours away picking the needles, one
by one, from the cones on two large branches of fir, which hung from the roof of her hut on
purpose to provide her with occupation. And as she picked she prayed to the fir-branch that
she might never be lazy, but always quick and active at work. During her seclusion, too, she
had to make miniatures of all the articles that Indian women make, or used to make, such as
baskets, mats, ropes, and thread. This she did in order that afterwards she might be able to
make the real things properly. Four large fir-branches also were placed in front of the hut,
so that when she went out or in, she had to step over them. The branches were renewed every
morning and the old ones thrown away into the water, while the girl prayed, "May I never bewitch
any man, nor my fellow-women! May it never happen!" The first four times that she went out
and in, she prayed to the fir-branches, saying, "If ever I step into trouble or difficulties
or step unknowingly inside the magical spell of some person, may you help me, O Fir-branches,
with your power!" Every day she painted her face afresh, and she wore strings of parts of deer-hoofs
round her ankles and knees, and tied to her waistband on either side, which rattled when she
walked or ran. Even the shape of the hut in which she lived was adapted to her future rather
than to her present needs and wishes. If she wished to be tall, the hut was tall; if she wished
to be short, it was low, sometimes so low that there was not room in it for her to stand erect,
and she would lay the palm of her hand on the top of her head and pray to the Dawn that she
might grow no taller. Her seclusion lasted four months. The Indians say that long ago it extended
over a year, and that fourteen days elapsed before the girl was permitted to wash for the first
time. The dress which she wore during her time of separation was afterwards taken to the top
of a hill and burned, and the rest of her clothes were hung up on trees.[124]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Lillooet Indians of British Columbia.]

Among the Lillooet Indians of British Columbia, neighbours of the Thompsons, the customs observed
by girls at puberty were similar. The damsels were secluded for a period of not less than one
year nor more than four years, according to their own inclination and the wishes of their parents.
Among the Upper Lillooets the hut in which the girl lodged was made of bushy fir-trees set
up like a conical tent, the inner branches being lopped off, while the outer branches were
closely interwoven and padded to form a roof. Every month or half-month the hut was shifted
to another site or a new one erected. By day the girl sat in the hut; for the first month she
squatted in a hole dug in the middle of it; and she passed the time making miniature baskets
of birch-bark and other things, praying that she might be able to make the real things well
in after years. At the dusk of the evening she left the hut and wandered about all night, but
she returned before the sun rose. Before she quitted the hut at nightfall to roam abroad, she
painted her face red and put on a mask of fir-branches, and in her hand, as she walked, she
carried a basket-rattle to frighten ghosts and guard herself from evil. Among the Lower Lillooets,
the girl's mask was often made of goat-skin, covering her head, neck, shoulders and breast,
and leaving only a narrow opening from the brow to the chin. During the nocturnal hours she
performed many ceremonies. Thus she put two smooth stones in her bosom and ran, and as they
fell down between her body and her clothes, she prayed, saying, "May I always have easy child-births!"
Now one of these stones represented her future child and the other represented the afterbirth.
Also she dug trenches, praying that in the years to come she might be strong and tireless in
digging roots; she picked leaves and needles from the fir-trees, praying that her fingers might
be nimble in picking berries; and she tore sheets of birch-bark into shreds, dropping the shreds
as she walked and asking that her hands might never tire and that she might make neat and fine
work of birch-bark. Moreover, she ran and walked much that she might be light of foot. And
every evening, when the shadows were falling, and every morning, when the day was breaking,
she prayed to the Dusk of the Evening or to the Dawn of Day, saying, "O Dawn of Day!" or "O
Dusk," as it might be, "may I be able to dig roots fast and easily, and may I always find plenty!"
All her prayers were addressed to the Dusk of the Evening or the Dawn of Day. She supplicated
both, asking for long life, health, wealth, and happiness.[125]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Shuswap Indians of British Columbia.]

Among the Shuswap Indians of British Columbia, who are neighbours of the Thompsons and Lillooets,
"a girl on reaching maturity has to go through a great number of ceremonies. She must leave
the village and live alone in a small hut on the mountains. She cooks her own food, and must
not eat anything that bleeds. She is forbidden to touch her head, for which purpose she uses
a comb with three points. Neither is she allowed to scratch her body, except with a painted
deer-bone. She wears the bone and the comb suspended from her belt. She drinks out of a painted
cup of birch-bark, and neither more nor less than the quantity it holds. Every night she walks
about her hut, and plants willow twigs, which she has painted, and to the ends of which she
has attached pieces of cloth, into the ground. It is believed that thus she will become rich
in later life. In order to become strong she should climb trees and try to break off their
points. She plays with lehal sticks that her future husbands might have good luck when gambling."[126]
During the day the girl stays in her hut and occupies herself in making miniature bags, mats,
and baskets, in sewing and embroidery, in manufacturing thread, twine, and so forth; in short
she makes a beginning of all kinds of woman's work, in order that she may be a good housewife
in after life. By night she roams the mountains and practises running, climbing, carrying burdens,
and digging trenches, so that she may be expert at digging roots. If she has wandered far and
daylight overtakes her, she hides herself behind a veil of fir branches; for no one, except
her instructor or nearest relatives, should see her face during her period of seclusion. She
wore a large robe painted red on the breast and sides, and her hair was done up in a knot at
each ear.[127]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Delaware and Cheyenne Indians.]

Ceremonies of the same general type were probably observed by girls at puberty among all the
Indian tribes of North America. But the record of them is far less full for the Central and
Eastern tribes, perhaps because the settlers who first came into contact with the Red Man in
these regions were too busy fighting him to find leisure, even if they had the desire, to study
his manners and customs. However, among the Delaware Indians, a tribe in the extreme east of
the continent, we read that "when a Delaware girl has her first monthly period, she must withdraw
into a hut at some distance from the village. Her head is wrapped up for twelve days, so that
she can see nobody, and she must submit to frequent vomits and fasting, and abstain from all
labor. After this she is washed and new clothed, but confined to a solitary life for two months,
at the close of which she is declared marriageable."[128] Again, among the Cheyennes, an Indian
tribe of the Missouri valley, a girl at her first menstruation is painted red all over her
body and secluded in a special little lodge for four days. However, she may remain in her father's
lodge provided that there are no charms ("medicine"), no sacred bundle, and no shield in it,
or that these and all other objects invested with a sacred character have been removed. For
four days she may not eat boiled meat; the flesh of which she partakes must be roasted over
coals. Young men will not eat from the dish nor drink from the pot, which has been used by
her; because they believe that were they to do so they would be wounded in the next fight.
She may not handle nor even touch any weapon of war or any sacred object. If the camp moves,
she may not ride a horse, but is mounted on a mare.[129]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Esquimaux.]

Among the Esquimaux also, in the extreme north of the continent, who belong to an entirely
different race from the Indians, the attainment of puberty in the female sex is, or used to
be, the occasion of similar observances. At the end of the year she was received back by her
parents and a great feast held.[130] Again, among the Malemut, and southward from the lower
Yukon and adjacent districts, when a girl reaches the age of puberty she is considered unclean
for forty days and must therefore live by herself in a corner of the house with her face to
the wall, always keeping her hood over her head and her hair hanging dishevelled over her eyes.
But if it is summer, she commonly lives in a rough shelter outside the house. She may not go
out by day, and only once at night, when every one else is asleep. At the end of the period
she bathes and is clothed in new garments, whereupon she may be taken in marriage. During her
seclusion she is supposed to be enveloped in a peculiar atmosphere of such a sort that were
a young man to come near enough for it to touch him, it would render him visible to every animal
he might hunt, so that his luck as a hunter would be gone.[131]

§ 5. Meanwhile the diviners drew omens of her future character from the various birds or animals
that flew past or crossed her path. Only her mother or grandmother has access to her; nobody
else approaches or speaks to her. If she is obliged to leave the hammock for a little, her
friends take great care to prevent her from touching the Boyrusu, which is an imaginary serpent
that would swallow her up. She must also be very careful not to set foot on the droppings of
fowls or animals, else she would suffer from sores on the throat and breast. On the third day
they let her down from the hammock, cut her hair, and make her sit in a corner of the room
with her face turned to the wall. She may speak to nobody, and must abstain from flesh and
fish. These rigorous observances she must practise for nearly a year. Many girls die or are
injured for life in consequence of the hardships they endure at this time. Their only occupations
during their seclusion are spinning and weaving.[134]

[Seclusion of girls at puberty among the Yuracares of Bolivia.]

Among the Yuracares, an Indian tribe of Bolivia, at the eastern foot of the Andes, when a girl
perceives the signs of puberty, she informs her parents. Meantime the mother, assisted by the
women of the neighbourhood, has brewed a large quantity of the native intoxicant called chicha,
and poured it into wooden troughs and palm leaves. On the morning of the fourth day, three
hours before the dawn, the girl's father, having arrayed himself in his savage finery, summons
all his neighbours with loud cries. The damsel is seated on a stone, and every guest in turn
cuts off a lock of her hair, and running away hides it in the hollow trunk of a tree in the
depths of the forest. When they have all done so and seated themselves again gravely in the
circle, the girl offers to each of them a calabash full of very strong chicha. Before the wassailing
begins, the various fathers perform a curious operation on the arms of their sons, who are
seated beside them. The operator takes a very sharp bone of an ape, rubs it with a pungent
spice, and then pinching up the skin of his son's arm he pierces it with the bone through and
through, as a surgeon might introduce a seton. This operation he repeats till the young man's
arm is riddled with holes at regular intervals from the shoulder to the wrist. Almost all who
take part in the festival are covered with these wounds, which the Indians call culucute. Having
thus prepared themselves to spend a happy day, they drink, play on flutes, sing and dance till
evening. Rain, thunder, and lightning, should they befall, have no effect in damping the general
enjoyment or preventing its continuance till after the sun has set. The motive for perforating
the arms of the young men is to make them skilful hunters; at each perforation the sufferer
is cheered by the promise of another sort of game or fish which the surgical operation will
infallibly procure for him. The same operation is performed on the arms and legs of the girls,
in order that they may be brave and strong; even the dogs are operated on with the intention
of making them run down the game better. For five or six months afterwards the damsel must
cover her head with bark and refrain from speaking to men. As the merrymaking lasts for two
or three weeks, the exhaustion of the musician at the end of it may be readily conceived. Meat
and drink are supplied to him on the spot where he pays his laborious court to the Muses. The
proceedings wind up with a saturnalia and a drunken debauch.[137] Among the Yaguas, an Indian
tribe of the Upper Amazon, a girl at puberty is shut up for three months in a lonely hut in
the forest, where her mother brings her food daily.[138] When a girl of the Peguenches tribe
perceives in herself the first signs of womanhood, she is secluded by her mother in a corner
of the hut screened off with blankets, and is warned not to lift up her eyes on any man. Next
day, very early in the morning and again after sunset, she is taken out by two women and made
to run till she is tired; in the interval she is again secluded in her corner. On the following
day she lays three packets of wool beside the path near the house to signify that she is now
a woman.[139] Among the Passes, Mauhes, and other tribes of Brazil the young woman in similar
circumstances is hung in her hammock from the roof and has to fast there for a month or as
long as she can hold out.[140] One of the early settlers in Brazil, about the middle of the
sixteenth century, has described the severe ordeal which damsels at puberty had to undergo
among the Indians on the south-east coast of that country, near what is now Rio de Janeiro.
When a girl had reached this critical period of life, her hair was burned or shaved off close
to the head. Then she was placed on a flat stone and cut with the tooth of an animal from the
shoulders all down the back, till she ran with blood. Next the ashes of a wild gourd were rubbed
into the wounds; the girl was bound hand and foot, and hung in a hammock, being enveloped in
it so closely that no one could see her. Here she had to stay for three days without eating
or drinking. When the three days were over, she stepped out of the hammock upon the flat stone,
for her feet might not touch the ground. If she had a call of nature, a female relation took
the girl on her back and carried her out, taking with her a live coal to prevent evil influences
from entering the girl's body. Being replaced in her hammock, she was now allowed to get some
flour, boiled roots, and water, but might not taste salt or flesh. Thus she continued to the
end of the first monthly period, at the expiry of which she was gashed on the breast and belly
as well as all down the back. During the second month she still stayed in her hammock, but
her rule of abstinence was less rigid, and she was allowed to spin. The intention of stinging
her with ants is said to be to make her strong to bear the burden of maternity.[144] Amongst
the Uaupes of Brazil a girl at puberty is secluded in the house for a month, and allowed only
a small quantity of bread and water. Then she is taken out into the midst of her relations
and friends, each of whom gives her four or five blows with pieces of sipo (an elastic climber),
till she falls senseless or dead. If she recovers, the operation is repeated four times at
intervals of six hours, and it is considered an offence to the parents not to strike hard.
Meantime, pots of meats and fish have been made ready; the sipos are dipped into them and then
given to the girl to lick, who is now considered a marriageable woman.[145]

[Custom in South America of causing young men to be stung with ants as an initiatory rite.]

The custom of stinging the girl at such times with ants or beating her with rods is intended,
we may be sure, not as a punishment or a test of endurance, but as a purification, the object
being to drive away the malignant influences with which a girl in this condition is believed
to be beset and enveloped. Examples of purification, by beating, by incisions in the flesh,
and by stinging with ants, have already come before us.[146] In some Indian tribes of Brazil
and Guiana young men do not rank as warriors and may not marry till they have passed through
a terrible ordeal, which consists in being stung by swarms of venomous ants whose bite is like
fire. Thus among the Mauhes on the Tapajos river, a southern tributary of the Amazon, boys
of eight to ten years are obliged to thrust their arms into sleeves stuffed with great ferocious
ants, which the Indians call tocandeira (Cryptocerus atratus, F.). When the young victim shrieks
with pain, an excited mob of men dances round him, shouting and encouraging him till he falls
exhausted to the ground. He is then committed to the care of old women, who treat his fearfully
swollen arms with fresh juice of the manioc; and on his recovery he has to shew his strength
and skill in bending a bow. This cruel ordeal is commonly repeated again and again, till the
lad has reached his fourteenth year and can bear the agony without betraying any sign of emotion.
Then he is a man and can marry. A lad's age is reckoned by the number of times he has passed
through the ordeal.[147] An eye-witness has described how a young Mauhe hero bore the torture
with an endurance more than Spartan, dancing and singing, with his arms cased in the terrible
mittens, before every cabin of the great common house, till pallid, staggering, and with chattering
teeth he triumphantly laid the gloves before the old chief and received the congratulations
of the men and the caresses of the women; then breaking away from his friends and admirers
he threw himself into the river and remained in its cool soothing water till nightfall.[148]
Similarly among the Ticunas of the Upper Amazon, on the border of Peru, the young man who would
take his place among the warriors must plunge his arm into a sort of basket full of venomous
ants and keep it there for several minutes without uttering a cry. He generally falls backwards
and sometimes succumbs to the fever which ensues; hence as soon as the ordeal is over the women
are prodigal of their attentions to him, and rub the swollen arm with a particular kind of
herb.[149] Ordeals of this sort appear to be in vogue among the Indians of the Rio Negro as
well as of the Amazon.[150] Among the Rucuyennes, a tribe of Indians in the north of Brazil,
on the borders of Guiana, young men who are candidates for marriage must submit to be stung
all over their persons not only with ants but with wasps, which are applied to their naked
bodies in curious instruments of trellis-work shaped like fantastic quadrupeds or birds. The
patient invariably falls down in a swoon and is carried like dead to his hammock, where he
is tightly lashed with cords. As they come to themselves, they writhe in agony, so that their
hammocks rock violently to and fro, causing the hut to shake as if it were about to collapse.
This dreadful ordeal is called by the Indians a maraké.[151]

[Custom of causing men and women to be stung with ants to improve their character and health
or to render them invulnerable.]

The same ordeal, under the same name, is also practised by the Wayanas, an Indian tribe of
French Guiana, but with them, we are told, it is no longer deemed an indispensable preliminary
to marriage; "it is rather a sort of national medicine administered chiefly to the youth of
both sexes." Applied to men, the maraké, as it is called, "sharpens them, prevents them from
being heavy and lazy, makes them active, brisk, industrious, imparts strength, and helps them
to shoot well with the bow; without it the Indians would always be slack and rather sickly,
would always have a little fever, and would lie perpetually in their hammocks. As for the women,
the maraké keeps them from going to sleep, renders them active, alert, brisk, gives them strength
and a liking for work, makes them good housekeepers, good workers at the stockade, good makers
of cachiri. Every one undergoes the maraké at least twice in his life, sometimes thrice, and
oftener if he likes. It may be had from the age of about eight years and upward, and no one
thinks it odd that a man of forty should voluntarily submit to it."[152] Similarly the Indians
of St. Juan Capistrano in California used to be branded on some part of their bodies, generally
on the right arm, but sometimes on the leg also, not as a proof of manly fortitude, but because
they believed that the custom "added greater strength to the nerves, and gave a better pulse
for the management of the bow." Afterwards "they were whipped with nettles, and covered with
ants, that they might become robust, and the infliction was always performed in summer, during
the months of July and August, when the nettle was in its most fiery state. They gathered small
bunches, which they fastened together, and the poor deluded Indian was chastised, by inflicting
blows with them upon his naked limbs, until unable to walk; and then he was carried to the
nest of the nearest and most furious species of ants, and laid down among them, while some
of his friends, with sticks, kept annoying the insects to make them still more violent. What
torments did they not undergo! What pain! What hellish inflictions! Yet their faith gave them
power to endure all without a murmur, and they remained as if dead. Having undergone these
dreadful ordeals, they were considered as invulnerable, and believed that the arrows of their
enemies could no longer harm them."[153] Among the Alur, a tribe inhabiting the south-western
region of the upper Nile, to bury a man in an ant-hill and leave him there for a while is the
regular treatment for insanity.[154]

[In such cases the beating or stinging was originally a purification; at a later time it is
interpreted as a test of courage and endurance.]

In like manner it is probable that beating or scourging as a religious or ceremonial rite was
originally a mode of purification. It was meant to wipe off and drive away a dangerous contagion,
whether personified as demoniacal or not, which was supposed to be adhering physically, though
invisibly, to the body of the sufferer.[155] The pain inflicted on the person beaten was no
more the object of the beating than it is of a surgical operation with us; it was a necessary
accident, that was all. In later times such customs were interpreted otherwise, and the pain,
from being an accident, became the prime object of the ceremony, which was now regarded either
as a test of endurance imposed upon persons at critical epochs of life, or as a mortification
of the flesh well pleasing to the god. But asceticism, under any shape or form, is never primitive.
The savage, it is true, in certain circumstances will voluntarily subject himself to pains
and privations which appear to us wholly needless; but he never acts thus unless he believes
that some solid temporal advantage is to be gained by so doing. Pain for the sake of pain,
whether as a moral discipline in this life or as a means of winning a glorious immortality
hereafter, is not an object which he sets himself deliberately to pursue.

[This explanation confirmed with reference to the beating of girls at puberty among the South
American Indians; treatment of a girl at puberty among the Banivas of the Orinoco; symptoms
of puberty in a girl regarded as wounds inflicted by a demon.]

If this view is correct, we can understand why so many Indian tribes of South America compel
the youth of both sexes to submit to these painful and sometimes fatal ordeals. They imagine
that in this way they rid the young folk of certain evils inherent in youth, especially at
the critical age of puberty; and when they picture to themselves the evils in a personal form
as dangerous spirits or demons, the ceremony of their expulsion may in the strict sense be
termed an exorcism. This certainly appears to be the interpretation which the Banivas of the
Orinoco put upon the cruel scourgings which they inflict on girls at puberty. At her first
menstruation a Baniva girl must pass several days and nights in her hammock, almost motionless
and getting nothing to eat and drink but water and a little manioc. While she lies there, the
suitors for her hand apply to her father, and he who can afford to give most for her or can
prove himself the best man, is promised the damsel in marriage. The fast over, some old men
enter the hut, bandage the girl's eyes, cover her head with a bonnet of which the fringes fall
on her shoulders, and then lead her forth and tie her to a post set up in an open place. The
head of the post is carved in the shape of a grotesque face. None but the old men may witness
what follows. Were a woman caught peeping and prying, it would go ill with her; she would be
marked out for the vengeance of the demon, who would make her expiate her crime at the very
next moon by madness or death. Every participant in the ceremony comes armed with a scourge
of cords or of fish skins; some of them reinforce the virtue of the instrument by tying little
sharp stones to the end of the thongs. Then, to the dismal and deafening notes of shell-trumpets
blown by two or three supernumeraries, the men circle round and round the post, every one applying
his scourge as he passes to the girl's back, till it streams with blood. At last the musicians,
winding tremendous blasts on their trumpets against the demon, advance and touch the post in
which he is supposed to be incorporate. Then the blows cease to descend; the girl is untied,
often in a fainting state, and carried away to have her wounds washed and simples applied to
them. The youngest of the executioners, or rather of the exorcists, hastens to inform her betrothed
husband of the happy issue of the exorcism. "The spirit," he says, "had cast thy beloved into
a sleep as deep almost as that of death. But we have rescued her from his attacks, and laid
her down in such and such a place. Go seek her." Then going from house to house through the
village he cries to the inmates, "Come, let us burn the demon who would have taken possession
of such and such a girl, our friend." The bridegroom at once carries his wounded and suffering
bride to his own house; and all the people gather round the post for the pleasure of burning
it and the demon together. A great pile of firewood has meanwhile been heaped up about it,
and the women run round the pyre cursing in shrill voices the wicked spirit who has wrought
all this evil. The men join in with hoarser cries and animate themselves for the business in
hand by deep draughts of an intoxicant which has been provided for the occasion by the parents-in-law.
Soon the bridegroom, having committed the bride to the care of his mother, appears on the scene
brandishing a lighted torch. He addresses the demon with bitter mockery and reproaches; informs
him that the fair creature on whom he, the demon, had nefarious designs, is now his, the bridegroom's,
blooming spouse; and shaking his torch at the grinning head on the post, he screams out, "This
is how the victims of thy persecution take vengeance on thee!" With these words he puts a light
to the pyre. At once the drums strike up, the trumpets blare, and men, women, and children
begin to dance. In two long rows they dance, the men on one side, the women on the other, advancing
till they almost touch and then retiring again. After that the two rows join hands, and forming
a huge circle trip it round and round the blaze, till the post with its grotesque face is consumed
in the flames and nothing of the pyre remains but a heap of red and glowing embers. "The evil
spirit has been destroyed. Thus delivered from her persecutor, the young wife will be free
from sickness, will not die in childbed, and will bear many children to her husband."[156]
From this account it appears that the Banivas attribute the symptoms of puberty in girls to
the wounds inflicted on them by an amorous devil, who, however, can be not only exorcised but
burnt to ashes at the stake.

§ 6. On the thirteenth day she bathes in a tank, and, on entering the house, steps over a pestle
and a cake. Near the entrance some food is placed and a dog is allowed to partake of it; but
his enjoyment is marred by suffering, for while he eats he receives a sound thrashing, and
the louder he howls the better, for the larger will be the family to which the young woman
will give birth; should there be no howls, there will be no children. The temporary hut in
which the girl passed the days of her seclusion is burnt down, and the pots which she used
are smashed to shivers.[160] Similarly among the Parivarams of Madura, when a girl attains
to puberty she is kept for sixteen days in a hut, which is guarded at night by her relations;
and when her sequestration is over the hut is burnt down and the pots she used are broken into
very small pieces, because they think that if rain-water gathered in any of them, the girl
would be childless.[161] The Pulayars of Travancore build a special hut in the jungle for the
use of a girl at puberty; there she remains for seven days. No one else may enter the hut,
not even her mother. Women stand a little way off and lay down food for her. At the end of
the time she is brought home, clad in a new or clean cloth, and friends are treated to betel-nut,
toddy, and arack.[162] Among the Singhalese a girl at her first menstruation is confined to
a room, where she may neither see nor be seen by any male. After being thus secluded for two
weeks she is taken out, with her face covered, and is bathed by women at the back of the house.
Near the bathing-place are kept branches of any milk-bearing tree, usually of the jak-tree.

§ 7. Seclusion of Girls at Puberty in Folk-tales

[Traces of the seclusion of girls at puberty in folk-tales. And it has done so. In a Danish
story we read of a princess who was fated to be carried off by a warlock if ever the sun shone
on her before she had passed her thirtieth year; so the king her father kept her shut up in
the palace, and had all the windows on the east, south, and west sides blocked up, lest a sunbeam
should fall on his darling child, and he should thus lose her for ever. Only at evening, when
the sun was down, might she walk for a little in the beautiful garden of the castle. In time
a prince came a-wooing, followed by a train of gorgeous knights and squires on horses all ablaze
with gold and silver. The king said the prince might have his daughter to wife on condition
that he would not carry her away to his home till she was thirty years old but would live with
her in the castle, where the windows looked out only to the north. The prince agreed, so married
they were. The bride was only fifteen, and fifteen more long weary years must pass before she
might step out of the gloomy donjon, breathe the fresh air, and see the sun. But she and her
gallant young bridegroom loved each other and they were happy. Often they sat hand in hand
at the window looking out to the north and talked of what they would do when they were free.
Still it was a little dull to look out always at the same window and to see nothing but the
castle woods, and the distant hills, and the clouds drifting silently over them. Well, one
day it happened that all the people in the castle had gone away to a neighbouring castle to
witness a tournament and other gaieties, and the two young folks were left as usual all alone
at the window looking out to the north. They sat silent for a time gazing away to the hills.
It was a grey sad day, the sky was overcast, and the weather seemed to draw to rain. At last
the prince said, "There will be no sunshine to-day. What if we were to drive over and join
the rest at the tournament?" His young wife gladly consented, for she longed to see more of
the world than those eternal green woods and those eternal blue hills, which were all she ever
saw from the window. So the horses were put into the coach, and it rattled up to the door,
and in they got and away they drove. At first all went well. The clouds hung low over the woods,
the wind sighed in the trees, a drearier day you could hardly imagine. So they joined the rest
at the other castle and took their seats to watch the jousting in the lists. So intent were
they in watching the gay spectacle of the prancing steeds, the fluttering pennons, and the
glittering armour of the knights, that they failed to mark the change, the fatal change, in
the weather. For the wind was rising and had begun to disperse the clouds, and suddenly the
sun broke through, and the glory of it fell like an aureole on the young wife, and at once
she vanished away. No sooner did her husband miss her from his side than he, too, mysteriously
disappeared. The tournament broke up in confusion, the bereft father hastened home, and shut
himself up in the dark castle from which the light of life had departed. The green woods and
the blue hills could still be seen from the window that looked to the north, but the young
faces that had gazed out of it so wistfully were gone, as it seemed, for ever.[166]

[Tyrolese story of the girl who might not see the sun.]

A Tyrolese story tells how it was the doom of a lovely maiden with golden hair to be transported
into the belly of a whale if ever a sunbeam fell on her. Hearing of the fame of her beauty
the king of the country sent for her to be his bride, and her brother drove the fair damsel
to the palace in a carefully closed coach, himself sitting on the box and handling the reins.
On the way they overtook two hideous witches, who pretended they were weary and begged for
a lift in the coach. At first the brother refused to take them in, but his tender-hearted sister
entreated him to have compassion on the two poor footsore women; for you may easily imagine
that she was not acquainted with their true character. So down he got rather surlily from the
box, opened the coach door, and in the two witches stepped, laughing in their sleeves. But
no sooner had the brother mounted the box and whipped up the horses, than one of the two wicked
witches bored a hole in the closed coach. A sunbeam at once shot through the hole and fell
on the fair damsel. So she vanished from the coach and was spirited away into the belly of
a whale in the neighbouring sea. You can imagine the consternation of the king, when the coach
door opened and instead of his blooming bride out bounced two hideous hags![167]

[Modern Greek stories of the maid who might not see the sun.]

In a modern Greek folk-tale the Fates predict that in her fifteenth year a princess must be
careful not to let the sun shine on her, for if this were to happen she would be turned into
a lizard.[168] In another modern Greek tale the Sun bestows a daughter upon a childless woman
on condition of taking the child back to himself when she is twelve years old. So, when the
child was twelve, the mother closed the doors and windows, and stopped up all the chinks and
crannies, to prevent the Sun from coming to fetch away her daughter. But she forgot to stop
up the key-hole, and a sunbeam streamed through it and carried off the girl.[169] In a Sicilian
story a seer foretells that a king will have a daughter who, in her fourteenth year, will conceive
a child by the Sun. So, when the child was born, the king shut her up in a lonely tower which
had no window, lest a sunbeam should fall on her. When she was nearly fourteen years old, it
happened that her parents sent her a piece of roasted kid, in which she found a sharp bone.

[Impregnation of women by the sun in legends.]

The idea that women may be impregnated by the sun is not uncommon in legends. Thus, for example,
among the Indians of Guacheta in Colombia, it is said, a report once ran that the sun would
impregnate one of their maidens, who should bear a child and yet remain a virgin. The chief
had two daughters, and was very desirous that one of them should conceive in this miraculous
manner. So every day he made them climb a hill to the east of his house in order to be touched
by the first beams of the rising sun. His wishes were fulfilled, for one of the damsels conceived
and after nine months gave birth to an emerald. So she wrapped it in cotton and placed it in
her bosom, and in a few days it turned into a child, who received the name of Garanchacha and
was universally recognized as a son of the sun.[173] Again, the Samoans tell of a woman named
Mangamangai, who became pregnant by looking at the rising sun. Her son grew up and was named
"Child of the Sun." At his marriage he applied to his mother for a dowry, but she bade him
apply to his father, the sun, and told him how to go to him. So one morning he took a long
vine and made a noose in it; then climbing up a tree he threw the noose over the sun and caught
him fast. Thus arrested in his progress, the luminary asked him what he wanted, and being told
by the young man that he wanted a present for his bride, the sun obligingly packed up a store
of blessings in a basket, with which the youth descended to the earth.[174]

[Traces in marriage customs of the belief that women can be impregnated by the sun.]

Even in the marriage customs of various races we may perhaps detect traces of this belief that
women can be impregnated by the sun. Thus amongst the Chaco Indians of South America a newly
married couple used to sleep the first night on a mare's or bullock's skin with their heads
towards the west, "for the marriage is not considered ratified till the rising sun shines on
their feet the succeeding morning."[175] At old Hindoo marriages the first ceremony was the
"Impregnation-rite" (Garbh[=a]dh[=a]na); during the previous day the bride was made to look
towards the sun or to be in some way exposed to its rays.[176] Amongst the Turks of Siberia
it was formerly the custom on the morning after the marriage to lead the young couple out of
the hut to greet the rising sun. The same custom is said to be still practised in Iran and
Central Asia under a belief that the beams of the rising sun are the surest means of impregnating
the new bride.[177]

[Belief in the impregnation of women by the moon.]

And as some people think that women may be gotten with child by the sun, so others imagine
that they can conceive by the moon. According to the Greenlanders the moon is a young man,
and he "now and then comes down to give their wives a visit and caress them; for which reason
no woman dare sleep lying upon her back, without she first spits upon her fingers and rubs
her belly with it. For the same reason the young maids are afraid to stare long at the moon,
imagining they may get a child by the bargain."[178] Similarly Breton peasants are reported
to believe that women or girls who expose their persons to the moonlight may be impregnated
by it and give birth to monsters.[179]

§ 8. This is to prevent their seeing the women, some of whom may be menstruating; and if looked
upon by the young males, it is supposed that dire results will follow."[182] And amongst these
tribes women in their courses "are not allowed to eat fish of any kind, or to go near the water
at all; it being one of their superstitions, that if a female, in that state, goes near the
water, no success can be expected by the men in fishing."[183] Similarly, among the natives
of the Murray River, menstruous women "were not allowed to go near water for fear of frightening
the fish. They were also not allowed to eat them, for the same reason. A woman during such
periods would never cross the river in a canoe, or even fetch water for the camp. Again, in
Mabuiag, another of these islands, women who have their courses on them may not eat turtle
flesh nor turtle eggs, probably for a similar reason. And during the season when the turtles
are pairing the restrictions laid on such a woman are much severer. She may not even enter
a house in which there is turtle flesh, nor approach a fire on which the flesh is cooking;
she may not go near the sea and she should not walk on the beach below high-water mark. Nay,
the infection extends to her husband, who may not himself harpoon or otherwise take an active
part in catching turtle; however, he is permitted to form one of the crew on a turtling expedition,
provided he takes the precaution of rubbing his armpits with certain leaves, to which no doubt
a disinfectant virtue is ascribed.[190] Among the Kai of German New Guinea women at their monthly
sickness must live in little huts built for them in the forest; they may not enter the cultivated
fields, for if they did go to them, and the pigs were to taste of the blood, it would inspire
the animals with an irresistible desire to go likewise into the fields, where they would commit
great depredations on the growing crops. Hence the issue from women at these times is carefully
buried to prevent the pigs from getting at it. Indeed she is forbidden to lie on a bed at all
and must sleep on the ground. Even a woman who did not menstruate was believed by the Baganda
to be a source of danger to her husband, indeed capable of killing him. Hence, before he went
to war, he used to wound her slightly with his spear so as to draw blood; this was thought
to ensure his safe return.[200] Apparently the notion was that if the wife did not lose blood
in one way or another, her husband would be bled in war to make up for her deficiency; so by
way of guarding against this undesirable event, he took care to relieve her of a little superfluous
blood before he repaired to the field of honour. If they did so, it is believed that they would
lose their virility; "in the rain they will shiver and in the heat they will faint." Suk men
and women take their meals apart, because the men fear that one or more of the women may be
menstruating.[203] The Anyanja of British Central Africa, at the southern end of Lake Nyassa,
think that a man who should sleep with a woman in her courses would fall sick and die, unless
some remedy were applied in time. And with them it is a rule that at such times a woman should
not put any salt into the food she is cooking, otherwise the people who partook of the food
salted by her would suffer from a certain disease called tsempo; hence to obviate the danger
she calls a child to put the salt into the dish.[204]

[Dread and seclusion of menstruous women among the tribes of West Africa.]

Among the Hos, a tribe of Ewe negroes of Togoland in West Africa, so long as a wife has her
monthly sickness she may not cook for her husband, nor lie on his bed, nor sit on his stool;
an infraction of these rules would assuredly, it is believed, cause her husband to die. If
her husband is a priest, or a magician, or a chief, she may not pass the days of her uncleanness
in the house, but must go elsewhere till she is clean.[205] Among the Ewe negroes of this region
each village has its huts where women who have their courses on them must spend their time
secluded from intercourse with other people. Sometimes these huts stand by themselves in public
places; sometimes they are mere shelters built either at the back or front of the ordinary
dwelling-houses. A woman is punishable if she does not pass the time of her monthly sickness
in one of these huts or shelters provided for her use. Thus, if she shews herself in her own
house or even in the yard of the house, she may be fined a sheep, which is killed, its flesh
divided among the people, and its blood poured on the image of the chief god as a sin-offering
to expiate her offence. She is also forbidden to go to the place where the villagers draw water,
and if she breaks the rule, she must give a goat to be killed; its flesh is distributed, and
its blood, diluted with water and mixed with herbs, is sprinkled on the watering-place and
on the paths leading to it. Were any woman to disregard these salutary precautions, the chief
fetish-man in the village would fall sick and die, which would be an irreparable loss to society.[206]

[Powerful influence ascribed to menstruous blood in Arab legend.]

The miraculous virtue ascribed to menstruous blood is well illustrated in a story told by the
Arab chronicler Tabari. He relates how Sapor, king of Persia, besieged the strong city of Atrae,
in the desert of Mesopotamia, for several years without being able to take it. But the king
of the city, whose name was Daizan, had a daughter, and when it was with her after the manner
of women she went forth from the city and dwelt for a time in the suburb, for such was the
custom of the place. Now it fell out that, while she tarried there, Sapor saw her and loved
her, and she loved him; for he was a handsome man and she a lovely maid. And she said to him,
"What will you give me if I shew you how you may destroy the walls of this city and slay my
father?" And he said to her, "I will give you what you will, and I will exalt you above my
other wives, and will set you nearer to me than them all." Then she said to him, "Take a greenish
dove with a ring about its neck, and write something on its foot with the menstruous blood
of a blue-eyed maid; then let the bird loose, and it will perch on the walls of the city, and
they will fall down." For that, says the Arab historian, was the talisman of the city, which
could not be destroyed in any other way. Every house has two doors, one of which is used only
by women in this condition. During her impurity the wife is fed by her husband apart from the
rest of the family, and whenever she has to quit the house she is obliged to creep out on her
hands and knees in order not to defile the thatch by her touch.[213] The Kharwars, another
aboriginal tribe of the same district, keep their women at such seasons in the outer verandah
of the house for eight days, and will not let them enter the kitchen or the cowhouse; during
this time the unclean woman may not cook nor even touch the cooking vessels. When the eight
days are over, she bathes, washes her clothes, and returns to family life.[214] Hindoo women
seclude themselves at their monthly periods and observe a number of rules, such as not to drink
milk, not to milk cows, not to touch fire, not to lie on a high bed, not to walk on common
paths, not to cross the track of animals, not to walk by the side of flowering plants, and
not to observe the heavenly bodies.[215] The motive for these restrictions is not mentioned,
but probably it is a dread of the baleful influence which is supposed to emanate from women
at these times. The Parsees, who reverence fire, will not suffer menstruous women to see it
or even to look on a lighted taper;[216] during their infirmity the women retire from their
houses to little lodges in the country, whither victuals are brought to them daily; at the
end of their seclusion they bathe and send a kid, a fowl, or a pigeon to the priest as an offering.[217]
In Annam a woman at her monthly periods is deemed a centre of impurity, and contact with her
is avoided. She is subject to all sorts of restrictions which she must observe herself and
which others must observe towards her. She may not touch any food which is to be preserved
by salting, whether it be fish, flesh, or vegetables; for were she to touch it the food would
putrefy. She may not enter any sacred place, she may not be present at any religious ceremony.
The linen which she wears at such times must be washed by herself at sunrise, never at night.
On reaching puberty girls may not touch flowers or the fruits of certain trees, for touched
by them the flowers would fade and the fruits fall to the ground. "It is on account of their
reputation for impurity that the women generally live isolated. In every house they have an
apartment reserved for them, and they never eat at the same table as the men. For the same
reason they are excluded from all religious ceremonies. She passes the time in a special hut,
whither her husband brings her food; and at the end of the time she takes a bath and resumes
her usual occupations.[221] So among the Indians of the Mosquito territory in Central America,
when a woman is in her courses, she must quit the village for seven or eight days. A small
hut is built for her in the wood, and at night some of the village girls go and sleep with
her to keep her company. Or if the nights are dark and jaguars are known to be prowling in
the neighbourhood, her husband will take his gun or bow and sleep in a hammock near her. She
may neither handle nor cook food; all is prepared and carried to her. When the sickness is
over, she bathes in the river, puts on clean clothes, and returns to her household duties.[222]
Among the Bri-bri Indians of Costa Rica a girl at her first menstruation retires to a hut built
for the purpose in the forest, and there she must stay till she has been purified by a medicine-man,
who breathes on her and places various objects, such as feathers, the beaks of birds, the teeth
of beasts, and so forth, upon her body. A married woman at her periods remains in the house
with her husband, but she is reckoned unclean (bukuru) and must avoid all intimate relations
with him. No article of furniture used in these menstrual huts might be used in any other,
not even the flint and steel with which in the old days the fires were kindled. No one would
borrow a light from a woman in her seclusion. If a white man in his ignorance asked to light
his pipe at her fire, she would refuse to grant the request, telling him that it would make
his nose bleed and his head ache, and that he would fall sick in consequence. If an Indian's
wooden pipe cracked, his friends would think that he had either lit it at one of these polluted
fires or had held some converse with a woman during her retirement, which was esteemed a most
disgraceful and wicked thing to do. Decent men would not approach within a certain distance
of a woman at such times, and if they had to convey anything to her they would stand some forty
or fifty paces off and throw it to her. Everything which was touched by her hands during this
period was deemed ceremonially unclean. Indeed her touch was thought to convey such pollution
that if she chanced to lay a finger on a chief's lodge or his gun or anything else belonging
to him, it would be instantly destroyed. If she crossed the path of a hunter or a warrior,
his luck for that day at least would be gone. Were she not thus secluded, it was supposed that
the men would be attacked by diseases of various kinds, which would prove mortal. In some tribes
a woman who infringed the rules of separation might have to answer with her life for any misfortunes
that might happen to individuals or to the tribe in consequence, as it was supposed, of her
criminal negligence. When she quitted her tent or hut to go into retirement, the fire in it
was extinguished and the ashes thrown away outside of the village, and a new fire was kindled,
as if the old one had been defiled by her presence. While their uncleanness lasted they had
to prepare their own food. The men believed that if they were to approach a menstruous woman,
they would fall ill, and that some mishap would overtake them when they went to the wars.[226]
When an Omaha woman has her courses on her, she retires from the family to a little shelter
of bark or grass, supported by sticks, where she kindles a fire and cooks her victuals alone.
Her seclusion lasts four days. During this time she may not approach or touch a horse, for
the Indians believe that such contamination would impoverish or weaken the animal.[227] Among
the Potawatomis the women at their monthly periods "are not allowed to associate with the rest
of the nation; they are completely laid aside, and are not permitted to touch any article of
furniture or food which the men have occasion to use. If the Indians be stationary at the time,
the women are placed outside of the camp; if on a march, they are not allowed to follow the
trail, but must take a different path and keep at a distance from the main body."[228] Among
the Cheyennes menstruous women slept in special lodges; the men believed that if they slept
with their wives at such times, they would probably be wounded in their next battle. A man
who owned a shield had very particularly to be on his guard against women in their courses.
He might not go into a lodge where one of them happened to be, nor even into a lodge where
one of them had been, until a ceremony of purification had been performed. Sweet grass and
juniper were burnt in the tent, and the pegs were pulled up and the covering thrown back, as
if the tent were about to be struck. Neither her husband nor her father would dream of going
out to hunt while she was in this state; and even if he had wished to do so, the other hunters
would not go with him. Hence to keep them out of harm's way, the women, both married and unmarried,
were secluded at these times for four days in shelters.[230] Among the Thompson Indians of
British Columbia every woman had to isolate herself from the rest of the people during every
recurring period of menstruation, and had to live some little way off in a small brush or bark
lodge made for the purpose. At these times she was considered unclean, must use cooking and
eating utensils of her own, and was supplied with food by some other woman. If she smoked out
of a pipe other than her own, that pipe would ever afterwards be hot to smoke. If she crossed
in front of a gun, that gun would thenceforth be useless for the war or the chase, unless indeed
the owner promptly washed the weapon in "medecine" or struck the woman with it once on each
principal part of her body. If a man ate or had any intercourse with a menstruous woman, nay
if he merely wore clothes or mocassins made or patched by her, he would have bad luck in hunting
and the bears would attack him fiercely. Before being admitted again among the people, she
had to change all her clothes and wash several times in clear water. The clothes worn during
her isolation were hung on a tree, to be used next time, or to be washed. For one day after
coming back among the people she did not cook food. Prominent among the ceremonial rites of
these Indians, he says, "are the observances peculiar to the fair sex, and many of them are
remarkably analogous to those practised by the Hebrew women, so much so that, were it not savouring
of profanity, the ordinances of the Déné ritual code might be termed a new edition 'revised
and considerably augmented' of the Mosaic ceremonial law. Among the Carriers,[235] as soon
as a girl has experienced the first flow of the menses which in the female constitution are
a natural discharge, her father believed himself under the obligation of atoning for her supposedly
sinful condition by a small impromptu distribution of clothes among the natives. This periodical
state of women was considered as one of legal impurity fateful both to the man who happened
to have any intercourse, however indirect, with her, and to the woman herself who failed in
scrupulously observing all the rites prescribed by ancient usage for persons in her condition.

[Seclusion of Carrier girls at puberty.]

"Upon entering into that stage of her life, the maiden was immediately sequestered from company,
even that of her parents, and compelled to dwell in a small branch hut by herself away from
beaten paths and the gaze of passers-by. As she was supposed to exercise malefic influence
on any man who might inadvertently glance at her, she had to wear a sort of head-dress combining
in itself the purposes of a veil, a bonnet, and a mantlet. It was made of tanned skin, its
forepart was shaped like a long fringe completely hiding from view the face and breasts; then
it formed on the head a close-fitting cap or bonnet, and finally fell in a broad band almost
to the heels. This head-dress was made and publicly placed on her head by a paternal aunt,
who received at once some present from the girl's father. When, three or four years later,
the period of sequestration ceased, only this same aunt had the right to take off her niece's
ceremonial head-dress. Furthermore, the girl's fingers, wrists, and legs at the ankles and
immediately below the knees, were encircled with ornamental rings and bracelets of sinew intended
as a protection against the malign influences she was supposed to be possessed with.[236] To
a belt girding her waist were suspended two bone implements called respectively Tsoenkuz (bone
tube) and Tsiltsoet (head scratcher). The former was a hollowed swan bone to drink with, any
other mode of drinking being unlawful to her. The latter was fork-like and was called into
requisition whenever she wanted to scratch her head--immediate contact of the fingers with
the head being reputed injurious to her health. While thus secluded, she was called asta, that
is 'interred alive' in Carrier, and she had to submit to a rigorous fast and abstinence. Her
only allowed food consisted of dried fish boiled in a small bark vessel which nobody else must
touch, and she had to abstain especially from meat of any kind, as well as fresh fish. Nor
was this all she had to endure; even her contact, however remote, with these two articles of
diet was so dreaded that she could not cross the public paths or trails, or the tracks of animals.
Whenever absolute necessity constrained her to go beyond such spots, she had to be packed or
carried over them lest she should contaminate the game or meat which had passed that way, or
had been brought over these paths; and also for the sake of self-preservation against tabooed,
and consequently to her, deleterious food. In the same way she was never allowed to wade in
streams or lakes, for fear of causing death to the fish.

"It was also a prescription of the ancient ritual code for females during this primary condition
to eat as little as possible, and to remain lying down, especially in course of each monthly
flow, not only as a natural consequence of the prolonged fast and resulting weakness; but chiefly
as an exhibition of a becoming penitential spirit which was believed to be rewarded by long
life and continual good health in after years.

[Seclusion of Carrier women at their monthly periods; reasons for the seclusion of menstruous
women among the Indians.]

"These mortifications or seclusion did not last less than three or four years. Useless to say
that during all that time marriage could not be thought of, since the girl could not so much
as be seen by men. When married, the same sequestration was practised relatively to husband
and fellow-villagers--without the particular head-dress and rings spoken of--on the occasion
of every recurring menstruation. Sometimes it was protracted as long as ten days at a time,
especially during the first years of cohabitation. Even when she returned to her mate, she
was not permitted to sleep with him on the first nor frequently on the second night, but would
choose a distant corner of the lodge to spread her blanket, as if afraid to defile him with
her dread uncleanness."[237] Elsewhere the same writer tells us that most of the devices to
which these Indians used to resort for the sake of ensuring success in the chase "were based
on their regard for continence and their excessive repugnance for, and dread of, menstruating
women."[238] But the strict observances imposed on Tinneh or Déné women at such times were
designed at the same time to protect the women themselves from the evil consequences of their
dangerous condition. Thus it was thought that women in their courses could not partake of the
head, heart, or hind part of an animal that had been caught in a snare without exposing themselves
to a premature death through a kind of rabies. They might not cut or carve salmon, because
to do so would seriously endanger their health, and especially would enfeeble their arms for
life. And they had to abstain from cutting up the grebes which are caught by the Carriers in
great numbers every spring, because otherwise the blood with which these fowls abound would
occasion haemorrhage or an unnaturally prolonged flux in the transgressor.[239] Similarly Indian
women of the Thompson tribe abstained from venison and the flesh of other large game during
menstruation, lest the animals should be displeased and the menstrual flow increased.[240]
For a similar reason, probably, Shuswap girls during their seclusion at puberty are forbidden
to eat anything that bleeds.[241] The same principle may perhaps partly explain the rule, of
which we have had some examples, that women at such times should refrain from fish and flesh,
and restrict themselves to a vegetable diet. However we may explain it, the resemblance which
exists between the earliest official utterances of the deity and the ideas of savages is unquestionably
close and remarkable; whether it be, as some suppose, that God communed face to face with man
in those early days, or, as others maintain, that man mistook his wild and wandering thoughts
for a revelation from heaven. Be that as it may, certain it is that the natural uncleanness
of woman at her monthly periods is a conception which has occurred, or been revealed, with
singular unanimity to several ancient legislators. The Hindoo lawgiver Manu, who professed
to have received his institutes from the creator Brahman, informs us that the wisdom, the energy,
the strength, the sight, and the vitality of a man who approaches a woman in her courses will
utterly perish; whereas, if he avoids her, his wisdom, energy, strength, sight, and vitality
will all increase.[242] The Persian lawgiver Zoroaster, who, if we can take his word for it,
derived his code from the mouth of the supreme being Ahura Mazda, devoted special attention
to the subject. According to him, the menstrous flow, at least in its abnormal manifestations,
is a work of Ahriman, or the devil. Therefore, so long as it lasts, a woman "is unclean and
possessed of the demon; she must be kept confined, apart from the faithful whom her touch would
defile, and from the fire which her very look would injure; she is not allowed to eat as much
as she wishes, as the strength she might acquire would accrue to the fiends. Her food is not
given her from hand to hand, but is passed to her from a distance, in a long leaden spoon."[243]
The Hebrew lawgiver Moses, whose divine legation is as little open to question as that of Manu
and Zoroaster, treats the subject at still greater length; but I must leave to the reader the
task of comparing the inspired ordinances on this head with the merely human regulations of
the Carrier Indians which they so closely resemble. The wizened remains of the deathless Sibyl
are said to have been preserved in a jar or urn which hung in a temple of Apollo at Cumae;
and when a group of merry children, tired, perhaps, of playing in the sunny streets, sought
the shade of the temple and amused themselves by gathering underneath the familiar jar and
calling out, "Sibyl, what do you wish?" a hollow voice, like an echo, used to answer from the
urn, "I wish to die."[251] A story, taken down from the lips of a German peasant at Thomsdorf,
relates that once upon a time there was a girl in London who wished to live for ever, so they say:

"London, London is a fine town. A maiden prayed to live for ever."

And still she lives and hangs in a basket in a church, and every St. John's Day, about the
hour of noon, she eats a roll of bread.[252] Another German story tells of a lady who resided
at Danzig and was so rich and so blest with all that life can give that she wished to live
always. So when she came to her latter end, she did not really die but only looked like dead,
and very soon they found her in a hollow of a pillar in the church, half standing and half
sitting, motionless. She stirred never a limb, but they saw quite plainly that she was alive,
and she sits there down to this blessed day. Every New Year's Day the sacristan comes and puts
a morsel of the holy bread in her mouth, and that is all she has to live on. Long, long has
she rued her fatal wish who set this transient life above the eternal joys of heaven.[253]
A third German story tells of a noble damsel who cherished the same foolish wish for immortality.
So they put her in a basket and hung her up in a church, and there she hangs and never dies,
though many a year has come and gone since they put her there. But every year on a certain
day they give her a roll, and she eats it and cries out, "For ever! for ever! for ever!" And
when she has so cried she falls silent again till the same time next year, and so it will go
on for ever and for ever.[254] A fourth story, taken down near Oldenburg in Holstein, tells
of a jolly dame that ate and drank and lived right merrily and had all that heart could desire,
and she wished to live always. For the first hundred years all went well, but after that she
began to shrink and shrivel up, till at last she could neither walk nor stand nor eat nor drink.
But die she could not. At first they fed her as if she were a little child, but when she grew
smaller and smaller they put her in a glass bottle and hung her up in the church. And there
she still hangs, in the church of St. Mary, at Lübeck.

[65] Rev. J. Macdonald, "Manners, Customs, Superstitions, and Religions of South African Tribes,"
Journal of the Anthropological Institute, xx. (1891) p. 118.

[66] Dudley Kidd, The Essential Kafir (London, 1904), p. 209. The prohibition to drink milk
under such circumstances is also mentioned, though without the reason for it, by L. Alberti
(De Kaffersaan de Zuidkust van Afrika, Amsterdam, 1810, p. 79), George Thompson (Travels and
Adventures in Southern Africa, London, 1827, ii. 354 sq.), and Mr. Warner (in Col. Maclean's
Compendium of Kafir Laws and Customs; Cape Town, 1866, p. 98). As to the reason for the prohibition,
see below, p. 80.

[67] C.W. Hobley, Ethnology of A-Kamba and other East African Tribes (Cambridge, 1910), p. 65.

[68] Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda (London, 1911), p. 80. As to the interpretation which the
Baganda put on the act of jumping or stepping over a woman, see id., pp. 48, 357 note 1. Apparently
some of the Lower Congo people interpret the act similarly. See J.H. Weeks, "Notes on some
Customs of the Lower Congo People," Folk-lore, xix. (1908) p. 431. Among the Baganda the separation
of children from their parents took place after weaning; girls usually went to live either
with an elder married brother or (if there was none such) with one of their father's brothers;
boys in like manner went to live with one of their father's brothers. See J. Roscoe, op. cit.
p. 74. As to the prohibition to touch food with the hands, see Taboo and the Perils of the
Soul, pp. 138 sqq., 146 sqq., etc.

[69] Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda, p. 80.

[70] De la Loubere, Du royaume de Siam (Amsterdam, 1691), i. 203. In Travancore it is believed
that women at puberty and after childbirth are peculiarly liable to be attacked by demons.
See S. Mateer, The Land of Charity (London, 1871), p. 208.

[71] Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda, p. 80.

[72] C. Gouldsbury and H. Sheane, The Great Plateau of Northern Nigeria (London, 1911), pp.
158-160.

[73] R. Sutherland Rattray, Some Folk-lore, Stories and Songs in Chinyanja (London, 1907),
pp. 102-105.

[74] Rev. H. Cole, "Notes on the Wagogo of German East Africa," Journal of the Anthropological
Institute, xxxii. (1902) pp. 309 sq.

[75] R. Sutherland Rattray, op. cit. pp. 191 sq.

[76] The Grihya Sutras, translated by H. Oldenberg, Part i. p. 357, Part ii. p. 267 (Sacred
Books of the East, vols. xxix., xxx.).

[77] Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda (London, 1911), pp. 393 sq., compare pp. 396, 398.

[78] See Totemism and Exogamy, iv. 224 sqq.

[79] Sir Harry H. Johnston, British Central Africa (London, 1897), p. 411.

[80] Oscar Baumann, Durch Massailand zur Nilquelle (Berlin, 1894), p. 178.

[81] Lionel Decle, Three Years in Savage Africa (London, 1898), p. 78. Compare E. Jacottet,
Études sur les Langues du Haut-Zambèze, Troisième Partie (Paris, 1901), pp. 174 sq. (as to
the A-Louyi).

[82] E. Béguin, Les Ma-rotsé (Lausanne and Fontaines, 1903), p. 113.

[83] Henri A. Junod, The Life of a South African Tribe (Neuchatel, 1912-1913), i. 178 sq.

[84] G. McCall Theal, Kaffir Folk-lore (London, 1886), p. 218.

[85] L. Alberti, De Kaffers aan de Zuidkust van Afrika (Amsterdam, 1810), pp. 79 sq.; H. Lichtenstein,
Reisen im südlichen Africa (Berlin, 1811-1812), i. 428.

[86] Gustav Fritsch, Die Eingeborenen Süd-Afrika's (Breslau, 1872), p. 112. This statement
applies especially to the Ama-Xosa.

[87] G. McCall Theal, Kaffir Folk-lore, p. 218.

[88] Rev. Canon Henry Callaway, Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus (Natal
and London, 1868), p. 182, note 20. From one of the Zulu texts which the author edits and translates
(p. 189) we may infer that during the period of her seclusion a Zulu girl may not light a fire.
Compare above, p. 28.

[89] E. Casalis, The Basutos (London, 1861), p. 268.

[90] J. Merolla, "Voyage to Congo," in J. Pinkerton's Voyages and Travels (London, 1808-1814),
xvi. 238; Father Campana, "Congo; Mission Catholique de Landana," Les Missions Catholiques,
xxvii. (1895) p. 161; R.E. Dennett, At the Back of the Black Man's Mind (London, 1906), pp.
69 sq.. According to Merolla, it is thought that if girls did not go through these ceremonies,
they would "never be fit for procreation." The other consequences supposed to flow from the
omission of the rites are mentioned by Father Campana. From Mr. Dennett's account (op. cit.
pp. 53, 67-71) we gather that drought and famine are thought to result from the intercourse
of a man with a girl who has not yet passed through the "paint-house," as the hut is called
where the young women live in seclusion. According to O. Dapper, the women of Loango paint
themselves red on every recurrence of their monthly sickness; also they tie a cord tightly
round their heads and take care neither to touch their husband's food nor to appear before
him (Description de l'Afrique, Amsterdam, 1686, p. 326).

[91] The Rev. G. Brown, quoted by the Rev. B. Danks, "Marriage Customs of the New Britain Group,"
Journal of the Anthropological Institute, xviii. (1889) pp. 284. sq.; id., Melanesians and
Polynesians (London, 1910), pp. 105-107. Compare id., "Notes on the Duke of York Group, New
Britain, and New Ireland," Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, xlvii. (1877) pp. 142
sq.; A. Hahl, "Das mittlere Neumecklenburg," Globus, xci. (1907) p. 313. Wilfred Powell's description
of the New Ireland custom is similar (Wanderings in a Wild Country, London, 1883, p. 249).
According to him, the girls wear wreaths of scented herbs round the waist and neck; an old
woman or a little child occupies the lower floor of the cage; and the confinement lasts only
a month. Probably the long period mentioned by Dr. Brown is that prescribed for chiefs' daughters.
Poor people could not afford to keep their children so long idle. This distinction is sometimes
expressly stated. See above, p. 30. Among the Goajiras of Colombia rich people keep their daughters
shut up in separate huts at puberty for periods varying from one to four years, but poor people
cannot afford to do so for more than a fortnight or a month. See F.A. Simons, "An Exploration
of the Goajira Peninsula," Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society, N.S., vii. (1885)
p. 791. In Fiji, brides who were being tattooed were kept from the sun (Thomas Williams, Fiji
and the Fijians, Second Edition, London, 1860, i. 170). This was perhaps a modification of
the Melanesian custom of secluding girls at puberty. The reason mentioned by Mr. Williams,
"to improve her complexion," can hardly have been the original one.

[92] Rev. R.H. Rickard, quoted by Dr. George Brown, Melanesians and Polynesians, pp. 107 sq..
His observations were made in 1892.

[93] R. Parkinson, Dreissig Jahre in der Südsee (Stuttgart, 1907), p. 272. The natives told
Mr. Parkinson that the confinement of the girls lasts from twelve to twenty months. The length
of it may have been reduced since Dr. George Brown described the custom in 1876.

[94] J. Chalmers and W. Wyatt Gill, Work and Adventure in New Guinea (London, 1885), p. 159.

[95] H. Zahn and S. Lehner, in R. Neuhauss's Deutsch New-Guinea (Berlin, 1911), iii. 298, 418-420.
The customs of the two tribes seem to be in substantial agreement, and the accounts of them
supplement each other. The description of the Bukaua practice is the fuller.

[96] C.A.L.M. Schwaner, Borneo, Beschrijving van het stroomgebied van den Barito (Amsterdam,
1853-1854), ii. 77 sq.; W.F.A. Zimmermann, Die Inseln des Indischen und Stillen Meeres (Berlin,
1864-1865), ii. 632 sq.; Otto Finsch, Neu Guinea und seine Bewohner (Bremen, 1865), pp. 116 sq..

[97] J.G.F. Riedel, De sluik--en kroesharige rassen tusschen Selebes en Papua (The Hague, 1886),
p. 138.

[98] A. Senfft, "Ethnographische Beiträge über die Karolineninsel Yap," Petermanns Mitteilungen,
xlix. (1903) p. 53; id., "Die Rechtssitten der Jap-Eingeborenen," Globus, xci. (1907) pp. 142 sq..

[99] Dr. C.G. Seligmann, in Journal of the Anthropological Institute, xxix. (1899) pp. 212
sq.; id., in Reports of the Cambridge Anthropological Expedition to Torres Straits, v. (Cambridge,
1904) pp. 203 sq.

[100] Dr. C.G. Seligmann, in Reports of the Cambridge Expedition to Torres Straits, v. (Cambridge,
1904) p. 205.

[101] L. Crauford, in Journal of the Anthropological Institute, xxiv. (1895) p. 181.

[102] Dr. C.G. Seligmann, op. cit. v. 206.

[103] Walter E. Roth, North Queensland Ethnography, Bulletin No. 5, Superstition, Magic, and
Medicine (Brisbane, 1903), pp. 24 sq.

[104] Walter E. Roth, op. cit. p. 25.

[106] From notes kindly sent me by Dr. C.G. Seligmann. The practice of burying a girl at puberty
was observed also by some Indian tribes of California, but apparently rather for the purpose
of producing a sweat than for the sake of concealment. The treatment lasted only twenty-four
hours, during which the patient was removed from the ground and washed three or four times,
to be afterwards reimbedded. Dancing was kept up the whole time by the women. See H. R. Schoolcraft,
Indian Tribes of the United States (Philadelphia, 1853-1856), v. 215. No. 6 (September, 1907),
p. 324.

[109] Roland B. Dixon, "The Northern Maidu," Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History,
vol. xvii. Part iii. (May 1905) pp. 232 sq., compare pp. 233-238.

[110] Stephen Powers, Tribes of California (Washington, 1877), p. 85 (Contributions to North
American Ethnology, vol. iii.).

[111] Stephen Powers, op. cit. p. 235.

[112] Charles Wilkes, Narrative of the United States Exploring Expedition, New Edition (New
York, 1851), iv. 456.

[113] Franz Boas, Chinook Texts (Washington, 1894), pp. 246 sq. The account, taken down from
the lips of a Chinook Indian, is not perfectly clear; some of the restrictions were prolonged
after the girl's second monthly period.

[114] G.M. Sproat, Scenes and Studies of Savage Life (London, 1868), pp. 93 sq.

[115] Franz Boas, in Sixth Report on the North-Western Tribes of Canada, pp. 40-42 (separate
reprint from the Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, Leeds meeting,
1890). The rule not to lie down is observed also during their seclusion at puberty by Tsimshian
girls, who always sit propped up between boxes and mats; their heads are covered with small
mats, and they may not look at men nor at fresh salmon and olachen. See Franz Boas, in Fifth
Report on the North-Western Tribes of Canada, p. 41 (separate reprint from the Report of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne meeting, 1889); G.M.
Dawson, Report on the Queen Charlotte Islands, 1878 (Montreal, 1880), pp. 130 B sq. Some divine
kings are not allowed to lie down. See Taboo and the Perils of the Soul, p. 5. Speaking of
the customs observed at Kloo, where the girls had to abstain from salmon for five years, Mr.
Swanton says (p. 49): "When five years had passed, the girl came out, and could do as she pleased."
This seems to imply that the girl was secluded in the house for five years. We have seen (above,
p. 32) that in New Ireland the girls used sometimes to be secluded for the same period.

[117] G.H. von Langsdorff, Reise um die Welt (Frankfort, 1812), ii. 114 sq.; H.J. Holmberg,
"Ethnographische Skizzen über die Völker des Russischen Amerika," Acta Societatis Scientiarum
Fennicae, iv. (Helsingfors, 1856) pp. 319 sq.; T. de Pauly, Description Ethnographique des
Peuples de la Russie (St. Petersburg, 1862), Peuples de l'Amérique Russe, p. 13; A. Erman,
"Ethnographische Wahrnehmungen und Erfahrungen an den Küsten des Berings-Meeres," Zeitschrift
für Ethnologie, ii. (Chicago, 1879-1880) pp. 111 sq.; A. Woldt, Captain Jacobsen's Reise an
der Nordwestkiiste Americas, 1881-1883 (Leipsic, 1884), p. 393; Aurel Krause, Die Tlinkit-Indianer
(Jena, 1885), pp. 217 sq.; W.M. Grant, in Journal of American Folk-lore, i. (1888) p. 169;
John R. Swanton, "Social Conditions, Beliefs, and Linguistic Relationship of the Tlingit Indians,"
Twenty-sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology (Washington, 1908), p. 428.

[118] Franz Boas, in Tenth Report of the Committee on the North-Western Tribes of Canada, p.
45 (separate reprint from the Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science,
Ipswich meeting, 1895).

[120] "Customs of the New Caledonian women belonging to the Nancaushy Tine, or Stuart's Lake
Indians, Natotin Tine, or Babine's and Nantley Tine, or Fraser Lake Tribes," from information
supplied by Gavin Hamilton, chief factor of the Hudson's Bay Company's service, who has been
for many years among these Indians, both he and his wife speaking their languages fluently
(communicated by Dr. John Rae), Journal of the Anthropological Institute, vii. (1878) pp. 206 sq.

[121] Émile Petitot, Traditions Indiennes du Canada Nord-ouest (Paris, 1886), pp. 257 sq.

[122] Fr. Julius Jetté, S.J., "On the Superstitions of the Ten'a Indians," Anthropos, vi. (1911)
pp. 700-702.

[123] Compare The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, i. 70 sqq. As to the customs observed
among these Indians by the father of a girl at such times in order not to lose his luck in
hunting, see Spirits of the Corn and of the Wild, ii. 268. Compare C. Hill Tout, "Report on
the Ethnology of the Stlatlumh of British Columbia," Journal of the Anthropological Institute,
xxxv. (1905) p. 136.

[128] G.H. Loskiel, History of the Mission of the United Brethren among the Indians of North
America (London, 1794), Part i. pp. 56 sq.

[129] G.B. Grinnell, "Cheyenne Woman Customs," American Anthropologist, New Series, iv. (New
York, 1902) pp. 13 sq. The Cheyennes appear to have been at first settled on the Mississippi,
from which they were driven westward to the Missouri. See Handbook of American Indians north
of Mexico, edited by F.W. Hodge (Washington, 1907-1910), i. 250 sqq.

[131] E.W. Nelson, "The Eskimo about Bering Strait," Eighteenth Annual Report of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, Part i. (Washington, 1899) p. 291.

[132] Jose Guevara, "Historia del Paraguay, Rio de la Plata, y Tucuman," pp. 16 sq., in Pedro
de Angelis, Coleccion de Obras y Documentos relativos a la Historia antigua y moderna de las
Provincias del Rio de la Plata, vol. ii. (Buenos-Ayres, 1836); J.F. Lafitau, Moeurs des Sauvages
Ameriquains (Paris, 1724), i. 262 sq.

[133] Father Ignace Chomé, in Lettres Édifiantes et Curieuses, Nouvelle Edition (Paris, 1780-1783),
viii. 333. As to the Chiriguanos, see C.F. Phil. von Martius, Zur Ethnographie Amerika's, zumal
Brasiliens (Leipsic, 1867), pp. 212 sqq.; Colonel G.E. Church, Aborigines of South America
(London, 1912), pp. 207-227.

[134] A. Thouar, Explorations dans l'Amérique du Sud (Paris, 1891), pp. 48 sq.; G. Kurze, "Sitten
und Gebräuche der Lengua-Indianer," Mitteilungen der Geographischen Gesellschaft zu Jena, xxiii.
(1905) pp. 26 sq. The two accounts appear to be identical; but the former attributes the custom
to the Chiriguanos, the latter to the Lenguas. As the latter account is based on the reports
of the Rev. W.B. Grubb, a missionary who has been settled among the Indians of the Chaco for
many years and is our principal authority on them, I assume that the ascription of the custom
to the Lenguas is correct. However, in the volume on the Lengua Indians, which has been edited
from Mr. Grubb's papers (An Unknown People in an Unknown Land, London, 1911), these details
as to the seclusion of girls at puberty are not mentioned, though what seems to be the final
ceremony is described (op. cit. pp. 177 sq.). From the description we learn that boys dressed
in ostrich feathers and wearing masks circle round the girl with shrill cries, but are repelled
by the women.

[135] Alcide d'Orbigny, Voyage dans l'Amérique Méridionale vol. iii.

[138] Francis de Castelnau, Expédition dans les parties centrales de l'Amérique du Sud (Paris,
1850-1851), v. 25. Apparently the Peguenches are an Indian tribe of Chili.

[140] J.B. von Spix und C.F. Ph. von Martius, Reise in Brasilien (Munich, 1823-1831), iii.
1186, 1187, 1318.

[141] André Thevet, Cosmographie Universelle (Paris, 1575), ii. 946 B [980] sq.; id., Les Singularites
de la France Antarctique, autrement nommée Amerique (Antwerp, 1558), p. 76; J.F. Lafitau, Moeurs
des Sauvages Ameriquains (Paris, 1724), i. 290 sqq.

[142] R. Schomburgk, Reisen in Britisch Guiana (Leipsic, 1847-1848), ii.

[143] Labat, Voyage du Chevalier des Marchais en Guinée, Isles voisines, et à Cayenne, iv.
365 sq. (Paris, 1730), pp. 17 sq. (Amsterdam, 1731).

[144] A. Caulin, Historia Coro-graphica natural y evangelica dela Nueva Andalucia (1779), p.
93. A similar custom, with the omission of the stinging, is reported of the Tamanaks in the
region of the Orinoco. See F.S. Gilij, Saggio di Storia Americana, ii. (Rome, 1781), p. 133.

[145] A.R. Wallace, Narrative of Travels on the Amazon and Rio Negro, p. 496 (p. 345 of the
Minerva Library edition, London, 1889).

[146] Taboo and the Perils of the Soul, pp. 105 sqq.; The Scapegoat> pp. 259 sqq. 1320.

[148] W. Lewis Herndon, Exploration of the Valley of the Amazon (Washington, 1854), pp. 319
sq. The scene was described to Mr. Herndon by a French engineer and architect, M. de Lincourt,
who witnessed it at Manduassu, a village on the Tapajos river. Mr. Herndon adds: "The Tocandeira
ants not only bite, but are also armed with a sting like the wasp; but the pain felt from it
is more violent. I think it equal to that occasioned by the sting of the black scorpion." He
gives the name of the Indians as Mahues, but I assume that they are the same as the Mauhes
described by Spix and Martius.

[149] Francis de Castelnau, Expédition dans les parties centrals de l'Amérique du Sud (Paris,
1850-1851), v. 46.

[150] L'Abbé Durand, "Le Rio Negro du Nord et son bassin," Bulletin de la Société de Géographie
(Paris), vi. Série, iii. (1872) pp. 21 sq. The writer says that the candidate has to keep his
arms plunged up to the shoulders in vessels full of ants, "as in a bath of vitriol," for hours.
He gives the native name of the ant as issauba.

[151] J. Crevaux, Voyages dans l'Amérique du Sud (Paris, 1883), pp. 245-250.

[152] H. Coudreau, Chez nos Indiens: quatre années dans la Guyane Française (Paris, 1895),
p. 228. For details as to the different modes of administering the maraké see ibid. pp. 228-235.

[153] Father Geronimo Boscana, "Chinigchinich," in Life in California by an American [A. Robinson]
(New York, 1846), pp. 273 sq.

[154] F. Stuhlmann, Mit Emin Pascha ins Herz von Afrika (Berlin, 1894), p. 506.

[155] As a confirmation of this view it may be pointed out that beating or scourging is inflicted
on inanimate objects expressly for the purpose indicated in the text. Thus the Indians of Costa
Rica hold that there are two kinds of ceremonial uncleanness, nya and bu-ku-rú. Anything that
has been connected with a death is nya. But bu-ku-rú is much more virulent. It can not only
make one sick but kill. "Bu-ku-rú emanates in a variety of ways; arms, utensils, even houses
become affected by it after long disuse, and before they can be used again must be purified.
In the case of portable objects left undisturbed for a long time, the custom is to beat them
with a stick before touching them. I have seen a woman take a long walking-stick and beat a
basket hanging from the roof of a house by a cord. On asking what that was for, I was told
that the basket contained her treasures, that she would probably want to take something out
the next day, and that she was driving off the bu-ku-rú. A house long unused must be swept,
and then the person who is purifying it must take a stick and beat not only the movable objects,
but the beds, posts, and in short every accessible part of the interior. The next day it is
fit for occupation. A place not visited for a long time or reached for the first time is bu-ku-rú.
On our return from the ascent of Pico Blanco, nearly all the party suffered from little calenturas,
the result of extraordinary exposure to wet and cold and of want of food. The Indians said
that the peak was especially bu-ku-rú since nobody had ever been on it before." One day Mr.
Gabb took down some dusty blow-guns amid cries of bu-ku-rú from the Indians. Some weeks afterwards
a boy died, and the Indians firmly believed that the bu-ku-rú of the blow-guns had killed him.
"From all the foregoing, it would seem that bu-ku-rú is a sort of evil spirit that takes possession
of the object, and resents being disturbed; but I have never been able to learn from the Indians
that they consider it so. They seem to think of it as a property the object acquires. But the
worst bu-ku-rú of all, is that of a young woman in her first pregnancy. She infects the whole
neighbourhood. Persons going from the house where she lives, carry the infection with them
to a distance, and all the deaths or other serious misfortunes in the vicinity are laid to
her charge. In the old times, when the savage laws and customs were in full force, it was not
an uncommon thing for the husband of such a woman to pay damages for casualties thus caused
by his unfortunate wife." See Wm.

[157] Shib Chunder Bose, The Hindoos as they are (London and Calcutta, 1881), p. 86. Similarly,
after a Brahman boy has been invested with the sacred thread, he is for three days strictly
forbidden to see the sun. He may not eat salt, and he is enjoined to sleep either on a carpet
or a deer's skin, without a mattress or mosquito curtain (ibid. p. 186). In Bali, boys who
have had their teeth filed, as a preliminary to marriage, are kept shut up in a dark room for
three days (R. Van Eck, "Schetsen van het eiland Bali," Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indië,
N.S., ix. (1880) pp. 428 sq.).

[158] (Sir) H.H. Risley, Tribes and Castes of Bengal, Ethnographic Glossary (Calcutta, 1891-1892),
i. 152.

[159] Edgar Thurston, Castes and Tribes of Southern India (Madras, 1909), vii. 63 sq.

[160] Edgar Thurston, op. cit. iii. 218.

[161] Edgar Thurston, op. cit. vi. 157.

[162] S. Mateer, Native Life in Travancore (London, 1883), p. 45.

[163] Arthur A. Perera, "Glimpses of Singhalese Social Life," Indian Antiquary xxxi, (1902) p. 380.

[164] J. Moura, Le Royaume du Cambodge (Paris, 1883), i. 377.

[165] Étienne Aymonier, "Notes sur les coutumes et croyances superstitieuses des Cambodgiens,"
Cochinchine Française: Excursions et Reconnaissances, No. 16 (Saigon, 1883), pp. 193 sq. Compare
id., Notice sur le Cambodge (Paris, 1875), p. 50 id., Notes sur le Laos (Saigon, 1885), p. 177.

[166] Svend Grundtvig, Dänische Volks-märchen, übersetzt von A. Strodtmann, Zweite Sammlung
(Leipsic, 1879), pp. 199 sqq.

[167] Christian Schneller, Märchen und Sagen aus Wälschtirol (Innsbruck, 1867), No. 22, pp. 51 sqq.

[168] Bernbard Schmidt, Griechische Märchen, Sagen und Volkslieder (Leipsic, 1877), p. 98.

[169] J.G. von Hahn, Griechische und albanesische Märchen (Leipsic, 1864), No. 41, vol. i.
pp. 245 sqq.

[170] Laura Gonzenbach, Sicilianische Märchen (Leipsic, 1870), No. 28, vol. i. pp. 177 sqq.
The incident of the bone occurs in other folk-tales. A prince or princess is shut up for safety
in a tower and makes his or her escape by scraping a hole in the wall with a bone which has
been accidentally conveyed into the tower; sometimes it is expressly said that care was taken
to let the princess have no bones with her meat (J.G. von Hahn, op. cit. No. 15; L. Gonzenbach,
op. cit. Nos. 26, 27; Der Pentamerone, aus dem Neapolitanischen übertragen von Felix Liebrecht
(Breslau, 1846), No. 23, vol. i. pp. 294 sqq.). From this we should infer that it is a rule
with savages not to let women handle the bones of animals during their monthly seclusions.
We have already seen the great respect with which the savage treats the bones of game (Spirits
of the Corn and of the Wild ii. 238 sqq., 256 sqq.); and women in their courses are specially
forbidden to meddle with the hunter or fisher, as their contact or neighbourhood would spoil
his sport (see below, pp. 77, 78 sq., 87, 89 sqq.). In folk-tales the hero who uses the bone
is sometimes a boy; but the incident might easily be transferred from a girl to a boy after
its real meaning had been forgotten. Amongst the Tinneh Indians a girl at puberty is forbidden
to break the bones of hares (above, p. 48). On the other hand, she drinks out of a tube made
of a swan's bone (above, pp. 48, 49), and the same instrument is used for the same purpose
by girls of the Carrier tribe of Indians (see below, p. 92). We have seen that a Tlingit (Thlinkeet)
girl in the same circumstances used to drink out of the wing-bone of a white-headed eagle (above,
p. 45), and that among the Nootka and Shuswap tribes girls at puberty are provided with bones
or combs with which to scratch themselves, because they may not use their fingers for this
purpose (above, pp. 44, 53).

[171] Sophocles, Antigone, 944 sqq.; Apollodorus, Bibliotheca, ii. 4. I; Horace, Odes, iii.
16. I sqq.; Pausanias, ii. 23. 7.

[172] W. Radloff, Proben der Volks-litteratur der türkischen Stämme Süd-Siberiens, iii. (St.
Petersburg, 1870) pp. 82 sq.

[173] H. Ternaux-Compans, Essai sur l'ancien Cundinamarca (Paris, N.D.), p. 18.

[174] George Turner, LL.D., Samoa, a Hundred Years ago and long before (London, 1884), p. 200.
For other examples of such tales, see Adolph Bastian, Die Voelker des Oestlichen Asien, i.
416, vi. 25; Panjab Notes and Queries, ii. p. 148, § 797 (June, 1885); A. Pfizmaier, "Nachrichten
von den alten Bewohnern des heutigen Corea," Sitzungsberichte der philosoph. histor. Classe
der kaiser. Akademie der Wissenschaften (Vienna), lvii. (1868) pp. 495 sq.

[175] Thomas J. Hutchinson, "On the Chaco and other Indians of South America," Transactions
of the Ethnological Society of London, N.S. iii. (1865) p. 327. Amongst the Lengua Indians
of the Paraguayan Chaco the marriage feast is now apparently extinct. See W. Barbrooke Grubb,
An Unknown People in an Unknown Land (London, 1911), p. 179.

[176] Monier Williams, Religious Thought and Life in India (London, 1883), p. 354.

[177] H. Vambery, Das Türkenvolk (Leipsic, 1885), p. 112.

[178] Hans Egede, A Description of Greenland (London, 1818), p. 209.

[179] Revue des Traditions Populaires, xv. (1900) p. 471.

[180] Taboo and the Perils of the Soul, pp. 145 sqq.

[181] H.E.A. Meyer, "Manners and Customs of the Aborigines of the Encounter Bay Tribe, South
Australia," The Native Tribes of South Australia (Adelaide, 1879), p. 186.

[182] E.J. Eyre, Journals of Expeditions of Discovery into Central Australia (London, 1845),
ii. 304.

[183] E.J. Eyre, op. cit. ii. 295.

[184] R. Brough Smyth, The Aborigines of Victoria (Melbourne and London, 1878), i. 236.

[185] Samuel Gason, in Journal of the Anthropological Institute, xxiv. (1895) p. 171.

[187] James Dawson, Australian Aborigines (Melbourne, Sydney, and Adelaide, 1881), pp. ci. sq.

[188] Rev. William Ridley, "Report on Australian Languages and Traditions," Journal of the
Anthropological Institute, ii. (1873) p. 268. Compare id., Kamilaroi and other Australian Languages
(Sydney, 1875), p. 157.

[189] A.W. Howitt, The Native Tribes of South-East Australia (London, 1904.), pp. 776 sq.,
on the authority of Mr. J.C. Muirhead. The Wakelbura are in Central Queensland. Compare Captain
W.E. Armit, quoted in Journal of the Anthropological Institute, ix.

[191] Ch. Keysser, "Aus dem Leben der Kaileute," in R. Neuhauss's Deutsch Neu-Guinea (Berlin,
1911), iii. 91.

[192] M.J. van Baarda, "Fabelen, Verhalen en Overleveringen der Galelareezen," Bijdragen tot
de Taal-Landen Volkenkinde van Nederlandsch-Indië, xlv. (1895) p. 489. (1890) p. 66.

[194] W.H.I. Bleek, A Brief Account of Bushman Folk-lore (London, 1875), p. 14; compare ibid.,
p. 10. Compare Henri A. Junod, "Les conceptions physiologiques des Bantou Sud-Africains et
leurs tabous," Revue d'Ethnographie et de Sociologie, i. (1910) p. 139. The danger of death
to the cattle from the blood of women is mentioned only by Mr. Kidd. The part of the village
which is frequented by the cattle, and which accordingly must be shunned by women, has a special
name, inkundhla (Mr. Warner's Notes, l.c.).

[197] Rev. J. Roscoe, "The Bahima, a Cow Tribe of Enkole," Journal of the Royal Anthropological
Institute, xxxvii. (1907) p. 106.

[198] Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda (London, 1911), p. 419.

[199] Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda, p. 96.

[201] Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda, p. 459.

[202] C.W. Hobley, "Further Researches into Kikuyu and Kamba Religious Beliefs and Customs,"
Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, xli. (1911) p. 409.

[203] Mervyn W.H. Beech, The Suk, their Language and Folklore (Oxford, 1911), p. 11.

[204] H.S. Stannus, "Notes on some Tribes of British Central Africa," Journal of the Royal
Anthropological Institute, xl. See above, p. 27.

[205] Jakob Spieth, Die Ewe-Stämme (Berlin, 1906), p. 192.

[206] Anton Witte, "Menstruation und Pubertätsfeier der Mädchen in Kpandugebiet Togo," Baessler-Archiv,
i. (1911) p. 279.

[207] Th. Nöldeke, Geschichte der Perser und Araber zur Zeit der Sassaniden, aus der arabischen
Chronik des Tabari übersetzt (Leyden, 1879), pp. 33-38. I have to thank my friend Professor
A.A. Bevan for pointing out to me this passage. Many ancient cities had talismans on the preservation
of which their safety was believed to depend. The Palladium of Troy is the most familiar instance.
See Chr. A. Lobeck, Aglaophamus (Königsberg, 1829), pp. 278 sqq., and my note on Pausanias,
viii. 47. 5 (vol. iv. pp. 433 sq.).

[208] J. Mergel, Die Medezin der Talmudisten (Leipsic and Berlin, 1885), pp. 15 sq.

[209] Maimonides, quoted by D. Chwolsohn, Die Ssabier und der Ssabismus (St. Petersburg, 1856),
ii. 483. According to the editor (p. 735) by the East Maimonides means India and eastern countries
generally.

[210] L'abbé Béchara Chémali, "Naissance et premier âge au Liban," Anthropos, v. (1910) p. 735.

[211] Eijub Abela, "Beiträge zur Kenntniss abergläubischer Gebräuche in Syrien," Zeitschrift
des deutschen Palaestina-Vereins, vii. (1884) p. 111.

[212] J. Chalmers, "Toaripi," Journal of the Anthropological Institute, xxvii. (1898) p. 328.

[213] W. Crooke, Tribes and Castes of the North-Western Provinces and Qudh (Calcutta, 1896),
ii. 87.

[214] W. Crooke, in North Indian Notes and Queries, i. p. 67, § 467 (July, 1891).

[215] L.K. Anantha Krishna Iyer, The Cochin Tribes and Castes, i. (Madras, 1909) pp. 201-203.
As to the seclusion of menstruous women among the Hindoos, see also Sonnerat, Voyage aux Indes
Orientates et à la Chine (Paris, 1782), i. 31; J.A. Dubois, Moeurs, Institutions et Cérémonies
des Peuples de l'Inde (Paris, 1825), i. 245 sq. Nair women in Malabar seclude themselves for
three days at menstruation and prepare their food in separate pots and pans. See Duarte Barbosa,
Description of the Coasts of East Africa and Malabar in the beginning of the Sixteenth Century
(Hakluyt Society, London, 1866), pp. 132 sq.

[216] G. Hoffman, Auszüge aus Syrischen Akten persisischer Martyrer übersetzt (Leipsic, 1880),
p. 99. This passage was pointed out to me by my friend Professor A.A. Bevan.

[217] J.B. Tavernier, Voyages en Turquie, en Perse, et aux Indes (The Hague, 1718), i. 488.

[218] Paul Giran, Magie et Religion Annamites (Paris, 1912), pp. 107 sq., 112.

[219] Joseph Gumilla, Histoire Naturelle, Civile, et Géographique de l'Orenoque (Avignon, 1758),
i. 249.

[220] Dr. Louis Plassard, "Les Guaraunos et le delta de l'Orénoque," Bulletin de la Société
de Géographie (Paris), v. Série, xv. (1868) p. 584. As to the customs observed at menstruation
by Indian women in South America, see further A. d'Orbigny, L'Homme Americain (Paris, 1839),
i. 237.

[222] Chas. N. Bell, "The Mosquito Territory," Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, xxxii.
(1862) p. 254.

[223] H. Pittier de Fabrega, "Die Sprache der Bribri-Indianer in Costa Rica," Sitztungsberichte
der philosophischen-historischen Classe der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften (Vienna),
cxxxviii. 90 (original edition, 1814); Rev. Jedidiah Morse, Report to the Secretary of War
of the United States on Indian Affairs (New Haven, 1822), pp. 136 sq.; Annales de l'Association
de la Propagation de la Foi, iv, (Paris and Lyons, 1830) pp. 483, 494 sq.; George Catlin, Letters
and Notes on the Manners, Customs, and Condition of the North American Indians, Fourth Edition
(London, 1844), ii. No. 6 (Berkeley, September, 1907), pp. 323 sq.; Frank G. Speck, Ethnology
of the Yuchi Indians (Philadelphia, 1909), p. 96. Among the Hurons of Canada women at their
periods did not retire from the house or village, but they ate from small dishes apart from
the rest of the family at these times (Gabriel Sagard, l.c.). 105.

[228] William H. Keating, Narrative of an Expedition to the Source of St. Peter's River (London,
1825), i. 132.

[230] C. Hill Tout, "Ethnological Report on the Stseelis and Skaulits Tribes of the Halokmelem
Division of the Salish of British Columbia," Journal of the Anthropological Institute, xxxiv.
(1904) p. 320.

[232] Samuel Hearne, Journey from Prince of Wales's Fort in Hudson's Bay to the Northern Ocean
(London, 1795), pp. 314 sq.; Alex. Mackenzie, Voyages through the Continent of North America
(London, 1801), p. cxxiii.; E. Petitot, Monographic des Déné-Dindjié (Paris, 1876), pp. 75 sq.

[233] C. Leemius, De Lapponibus Finmarchiae eorumque lingua vita et religione pristina (Copenhagen,
1767), p. 494.

[235] The Carriers are a tribe of Déné or Tinneh Indians who get their name from a custom observed
among them by widows, who carry, or rather used to carry, the charred bones of their dead husbands
about with them in bundles.

[236] Hence we may conjecture that the similar ornaments worn by Mabuiag girls in similar circumstances
are also amulets. See above, p. 36. Among the aborigines of the Upper Yarra river in Victoria,
a girl at puberty used to have cords tied very tightly round several parts of her body. The
cords were worn for several days, causing the whole body to swell very much and inflicting
great pain. The girl might not remove them till she was clean. See R. Brough Smyth, Aborigines
of Victoria (Melbourne and London, 1878), i. 65. Perhaps the cords were intended to arrest
the flow of blood.

[237] Rev. Father A.G. Morice, "The Western Dénés, their Manners and Customs," Proceedings
of the Canadian Institute, Toronto, Third Series, vii. (1888-89) pp. 162-164. The writer has
repeated the substance of this account in a later work, Au pays de l'Ours Noir: chez les sauvages
de la Colombia Britannique (Paris and Lyons, 1897), pp. 72 sq.

[238] A.G. Morice, "Notes, Archaeological, Industrial, and Sociological, on the Western Dénés,"
Transactions of the Canadian Institute, iv.

[239] A.G. Morice, in Transactions of the Canadian Institute, iv. (1892-93) pp. 107, 110.

[241] See above, p. 53.

[242] Laws of Manu, translated by G. Buhler (Oxford, 1886), ch. iv. 41 sq., p. 135 (Sacred
Books of the East, vol. xxv.).

[243] The Zend-Avesta, translated by J. Darmesteter, i. (Oxford, 1880) p. xcii. (Sacred Books
of the East, vol. iv.). See id., pp. 9, 181-185, Fargard, i. 18 and 19, xvi. 1-18.

[244] Pliny, Nat. Hist. vii. 64 sq., xxviii. 77 sqq. Compare Geoponica, xii. 20. 5 and 25.
2; Columella, De re rustica, xi. 357 sqq.

[245] August Schleicher, Volkstümliches aus Sonnenberg (Weimar, 1858), p. 134; B. Souché, Croyances,
Présages et Traditions diverses (Niort, 1880), p. 11; A. Meyrac, Traditions, Coutumes Légendes
et Contes des Ardennes (Charleville, 1890), p. 171; V. Fossel, Volksmedicin und medicinischer
Aberglaube in Steiermark[2] (Graz, 1886), p. 124. A correspondent, who withholds her name,
writes to me that in a Suffolk village, where she used to live some twenty or thirty years
ago, "every one pickled their own beef, and it was held that if the pickling were performed
by a woman during her menstrual period the meat would not keep. If the cook were incapacitated
at the time when the pickling was due, another woman was sent for out of the village rather
than risk what was considered a certainty." Another correspondent informs me that in some of
the dales in the north of Yorkshire a similar belief prevailed down to recent years with regard
to the salting of pork. Another correspondent writes to me: "The prohibition that a menstruating
woman must not touch meat that is intended for keeping appears to be common all over the country;
at least I have met with it as a confirmed and active custom in widely separated parts of England....
It is in regard to the salting of meat for bacon that the prohibition is most usual, because
that is the commonest process; but it exists in regard to any meat food that is required to
be kept."

[246] R. Andree, Braunschweiger Volkskunde (Brunswick, 1896), p. 291.

[247] W.R. Paton, in Folk-lore, i. (1890) p. 524.

[248] The Greeks and Romans thought that a field was completely protected against insects if
a menstruous woman walked round it with bare feet and streaming hair (Pliny, Nat. Hist. xvii.
266, xxviii. 78; Columella, De re rustica, x. 358 sq., xi. 3. 64; Palladius, De re rustica,
i. 35. 3; Geoponica, xii. 8. 5 sq.; Aelian, Nat. Anim. vi. 36). A similar preventive is employed
for the same purpose by North American Indians and European peasants. Compare J. Haltrich,
Zur Volkskunde der Siebenbürger Sachsen (Vienna, 1885), p. 280; Adolph Heinrich, Agrarische
Sitten und Gebräuche unter den Sachsen Siebenbürgens (Hermannstadt, 1880), p. 14; J. Grimm,
Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] iii. 468; G. Lammert, Volksmedizin und medizinischer Aberglaube aus
Bayern (Würzburg, 1869), p. 147. Among the Western Dénés it is believed that one or two transverse
lines tattooed on the arms or legs of a young man by a pubescent girl are a specific against
premature weakness of these limbs. The Thompson Indians of British Columbia thought that the
Dawn of Day could and would cure hernia if only an adolescent girl prayed to it to do so. Just
before daybreak the girl would put some charcoal in her mouth, chew it fine, and spit it out
four times on the diseased place. Then she prayed: "O Day-dawn! thy child relies on me to obtain
healing from thee, who art mystery. Remove thou the swelling of thy child. Pity thou him, Day-Dawn!"
To cure the painful and dangerous wound inflicted by a ray-fish, the Indians of the Gran Chaco
smoke the wounded limb and then cause a woman in her courses to sit astride of it. See G. Pelleschi,
Eight Months on the Gran Chaco of the Argentine Republic (London, 1886), p. 106. An ancient
Hindoo method of securing prosperity was to swallow a portion of the menstruous fluid. See
W. Caland, Altindisches Zauberritual (Amsterdam, 1900), pp. 57 sq. To preserve a new cow from
the evil eye Scottish Highlanders used to sprinkle menstruous blood on the animal; and at certain
seasons of the year, especially at Beltane (the first of May) and Lammas (the first of August)
it was their custom to sprinkle the same potent liquid on the doorposts and houses all round
to guard them from harm. The fluid was applied by means of a wisp of straw, and the person
who discharged this salutary office went round the house in the direction of the sun. See J.G.
Campbell, Superstitions of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland (Glasgow, 1900), p. 248. These
are examples of the beneficent application of the menstruous energy.

[249] Taboo and the Perils of the Soul, pp. 1 sqq.

[250] For a similar reason, perhaps, ancient Hindoo ritual prescribed that when the hair of
a child's head was shorn in the third year, the clippings should be buried in a cow-stable,
or near an udumbara tree, or in a clump of darbha grass, with the words, "Where Pushan, Brihaspati,
Savitri, Soma, Agni dwell, they have in many ways searched where they should deposit it, between
heaven and earth, the waters and heaven."

[251] Petronius, Sat. 48; Pausanias, x. 12: 8; Justin Martyr, Cohort ad Graecos, 37, p. 34
c (ed. 1742). According to another account, the remains of the Sibyl were enclosed in an iron
cage which hung from a pillar in an ancient temple of Hercules at Argyrus (Ampelius, Liber
Memorialis, viii. 16).

[252] A. Kuhn und W. Schwartz, Nord-deutsche Sagen, Märchen und Gebräuche (Leipsic, 1848),
p. 70, No. 72. i. This and the following German parallels to the story of the Sibyl's wish
were first indicated by Dr. M.R. James (Classical Review, vi. (1892) p. 74). I have already
given the stories at length in a note on Pausanias, x. 12. 8 (vol. v. pp. 292 sq.).

[253] A. Kuhn und W. Schwartz, op. cit. pp. 70 sq., No. 72. 2.

[254] A. Kuhn und W. Schwartz, op. cit. p. 71, No. 72. 3.

[255] Karl Müllenhoff, Sagen, Märchen und Lieder der Herzogthümer Holstein und Lauenburg (Kiel,
1845), pp. 158 sg., No. 217. Among the visions which the Norse Sibyl sees and describes in
the weird prophecy known as the Voluspa is one of the fatal mistletoe. "I behold," says she,
"Fate looming for Balder, Woden's son, the bloody victim. There stands the Mistletoe slender
and delicate, blooming high above the ground. Out of this shoot, so slender to look on, there
shall grow a harmful fateful shaft. Hod shall shoot it, but Frigga in Fen-hall shall weep over
the woe of Wal-hall."[257] Yet looking far into the future the Sibyl sees a brighter vision
of a new heaven and a new earth, where the fields unsown shall yield their increase and all
sorrows shall be healed; then Balder will come back to dwell in Odin's mansions of bliss, in
a hall brighter than the sun, shingled with gold, where the righteous shall live in joy for
ever more.[258]

[The story of Balder as related by Saxo Grammaticus.]

Writing about the end of the twelfth century, the old Danish historian Saxo Grammaticus tells
the story of Balder in a form which professes to be historical. According to him, Balder and
Hother were rival suitors for the hand of Nanna, daughter of Gewar, King of Norway. Now Balder
was a demigod and common steel could not wound his sacred body. The two rivals encountered
each other in a terrific battle, and though Odin and Thor and the rest of the gods fought for
Balder, yet was he defeated and fled away, and Hother married the princess. Nevertheless Balder
took heart of grace and again met Hother in a stricken field. It may be so; yet it is also
possible that the myth was founded on the tradition of a hero, popular and beloved in his lifetime,
who long survived in the memory of the people, gathering more and more of the marvellous about
him as he passed from generation to generation of story-tellers. At all events it is worth
while to observe that a somewhat similar story is told of another national hero, who may well
have been a real man. In his great poem, The Epic of Kings, which is founded on Persian traditions,
the poet Firdusi tells us that in the combat between Rustem and Isfendiyar the arrows of the
former did no harm to his adversary, "because Zerdusht had charmed his body against all dangers,
so that it was like unto brass." But Simurgh, the bird of God, shewed Rustem the way he should
follow in order to vanquish his redoubtable foe. He rode after her, and they halted not till
they came to the sea-shore. There she led him into a garden, where grew a tamarisk, tall and
strong, and the roots thereof were in the ground, but the branches pierced even unto the sky.
Then the bird of God bade Rustem break from the tree a branch that was long and slender, and
fashion it into an arrow, and she said, "Only through his eyes can Isfendiyar be wounded. If,
therefore, thou wouldst slay him, direct this arrow unto his forehead, and verily it shall
not miss its aim." Rustem did as he was bid; and when next he fought with Isfendiyar, he shot
the arrow at him, and it pierced his eye, and he died. Great was the mourning for Isfendiyar.
For the space of one year men ceased not to lament for him, and for many years they shed bitter
tears for that arrow, and they said, "The glory of Iran hath been laid low."[261]

[The myth of Balder was perhaps acted as a magical ceremony.

Notes:

[256] Die Edda, übersetzt von K. Simrock*[8] (Stuttgart, 1882), pp. 286-288. Compare pp. 8,
34, 264. Balder's story is told in a professedly historical form by the old Danish historian
Saxo Grammaticus in his third book. See below, p. 103. In English the story is told at length
by Professor (Sir) John Rhys, Celtic Heathendom (London and Edinburgh, 1888), pp. 529 sqq.
It is elaborately discussed by Professor F. Knuffmann in a learned monograph, Balder, Mythus
und Sage (Strasburg, 1902).

[257] Gudbrand Vigfusson and F. York Powell, Corpus Poeticum Boreale, i. (Oxford, 1883) p.
197. Compare Edda Rhythmica seu Antiquior, vulgo Saemundina dicta, Pars iii. Kauffmann, Balder,
Mythus und Sage, pp. 20 sq. In this passage the words translated "bloody victim" (blaupom tivor)
and "fate looming" (ørlog fólgen) are somewhat uncertain and have been variously interpreted.
The word tivor, usually understood to mean "god," seems to be found nowhere else. Professor
H.M. Chadwick has kindly furnished me with the following literal translation of the passage:
"I saw (or 'have seen') held in safe keeping the life of Balder, the bloody god, Othin's son.
High above the fields (i.e. the surface of the earth) grew a mistletoe, slender and very beautiful.
From a shaft (or 'stem') which appeared slender, came a dangerous sorrow-bringing missile (i.e.
the shaft became a ... missile); Hodr proceeded to shoot. Soon was a brother of Balder born.
He, Othin's son, proceeded to do battle when one day old. He did not wash his hands or comb
his head before he brought Balder's antagonist on to the pyre. But Frigg in Fen-salir (i.e.
the Fen-abode) lamented the trouble of Val-holl." In translating the words ørlog fólgen "held
in safe keeping the life" Professor Chadwick follows Professor F. Kauffmann's rendering ("das
Leben verwahrt"); but he writes to me that he is not quite confident about it, as the word
ørlog usually means "fate" rather than "life." Several sentences translated by Professor Chadwick
("Soon was a brother of Balder born ... he brought Balder's antagonist on the pyre") are omitted
by some editors and translators of the Edda. P.E. Müller (Copenhagen, 1839-1858), lib. iii.
vol. i. pp. 110 sqq.; The First Nine Books of the Danish History of Saxo Grammaticus, translated
by Oliver Elton (London, 1894), pp. 83-93.

[260] Fridthjofs Saga, aus dem Alt-isländischen, von J.C. Poestion, (Vienna, 1879), pp. 3 sq.,
14-17, 45-52.

[261] The Epic of Kings, Stories retold from Firdusi, by Helen Zimmern (London, 1883), pp.
325-331. 324, 327 sq. It is briefly mentioned by Dr. P. Wagler, Die Eiche in alter und neuer
Zeit, ii. Teil (Berlin, 1891), p. 40.

CHAPTER IV

THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE

§ 1. We shall consider them in the order in which they occur in the calendar year. At Maeseyck
and in many villages of Limburg, on the evening of the day children run through the streets
carrying lighted torches; then they kindle little fires of straw in the fields and dance round
them. The same custom was observed on the same two days at Wasmes.[268] In the neighbourhood
of Liège, where the Lenten fires were put down by the police about the middle of the nineteenth
century, girls thought that by leaping over the fires without being smirched they made sure
of a happy marriage. Elsewhere in order to get a good husband it was necessary to see seven
of the bonfires from one spot. In Famenne, a district of Namur, men and cattle who traversed
the Lenten fires were thought to be safe from sickness and witchcraft. Anybody who saw seven
such fires at once had nothing to fear from sorcerers. Round the fires the people dance and
sing merrily till the flames have died out. Then the master of the fire, as they call the man
who kindled it, invites all who contributed to the erection of the pile to follow him to the
nearest tavern, where they partake of good cheer. At Dommartin they say that, if you would
have the hemp tall, it is absolutely necessary that the women should be tipsy on the evening
of this day.[271] At Épinal in the Vosges, on the first Sunday in Lent, bonfires used to be
kindled at various places both in the town and on the banks of the Moselle. They consisted
of pyramids of sticks and faggots, which had been collected some days earlier by young folks
going from door to door. When the flames blazed up, the names of various couples, whether young
or old, handsome or ugly, rich or poor, were called out, and the persons thus linked in mock
marriage were forced, whether they liked it or not, to march arm in arm round the fire amid
the laughter and jests of the crowd. The festivity lasted till the fire died out, and then
the spectators dispersed through the streets, stopping under the windows of the houses and
proclaiming the names of the féchenots and féchenottes or Valentines whom the popular voice
had assigned to each other. These couples had to exchange presents; the mock bridegroom gave
his mock bride something for her toilet, while she in turn presented him with a cockade of
coloured ribbon. Next Sunday, if the weather allowed it, all the couples, arrayed in their
best attire and attended by their relations, repaired to the wood of Saint Antony, where they
mounted a famous stone called the danserosse or danseresse. Here they found cakes and refreshments
of all sorts, and danced to the music of a couple of fiddlers. The evening bell, ringing the
Angelus, gave the signal to depart. As soon as its solemn chime was heard, every one quitted
the forest and returned home. The exchange of presents between the Valentines went by the name
of ransom or redemption (rachat), because it was supposed to redeem the couple from the flames
of the bonfire. For who could ripen the fruit so well as the sun-god? and what better process
could be devised to draw the blossoms from the bare boughs than the application to them of
that genial warmth which is ultimately derived from the solar beams? Thus the fire-festival
of the first Sunday in Lent, as it is observed in Auvergne, may be interpreted very naturally
and simply as a religious or rather perhaps magical ceremony designed to procure a due supply
of the sun's heat for plants and animals. At the same time we should remember that the employment
of fire in this and kindred ceremonies may have been designed originally, not so much to stimulate
growth and reproduction, as to burn and destroy all agencies, whether in the shape of vermin,
witches, or what not, which threatened or were supposed to threaten the growth of the crops
and the multiplication of animals. It is often difficult to decide between these two different
interpretations of the use of fire in agricultural rites. In any case the fire-festival of
Auvergne on the first Sunday in Lent may date from Druidical times. All that was done habitually
in Picardy, and the ceremony of the torches is not entirely forgotten, especially in the villages
on both sides the Somme as far as Saint-Valery."[279] "A very agreeable spectacle, said the
curate of l'Étoile, is to survey from the portal of the church, situated almost on the top
of the mountain, the vast plains of Vimeux all illuminated by these wandering fires. The same
pastime is observed at Poix, at Conty, and in all the villages round about."[280] Again, in
the district of Beauce a festival of torches (brandons or brandelons) used to be held both
on the first and on the second Sunday in Lent; the first was called "the Great Torches" and
the second "the Little Torches." The torches were, as usual, bundles of straw wrapt round poles.
In the evening the village lads carried the burning brands through the country, running about
in disorder and singing,

      "Torches burn
At these vines, at this wheat;
       Torches burn
For the maidens that shall wed!"

From time to time the bearers would stand still and smite the earth all together with the blazing
straw of the torches, while they cried, "A sheaf of a peck and a half!" (Gearbe à boissiaux).
If two torchbearers happened to meet each other on their rounds, they performed the same ceremony
and uttered the same words. When the straw was burnt out, the poles were collected and a great
bonfire made of them. Lads and lasses danced round the flames, and the lads leaped over them.
Afterwards it was customary to eat a special sort of hasty-pudding made of wheaten flour. These
usages were still in vogue at the beginning of the nineteenth century, but they have now almost
disappeared. The peasants believed that by carrying lighted torches through the fields they
protected the crops from field-mice, darnel, and smut.[281] "At Dijon, in Burgundy, it is the
custom upon the first Sunday in Lent to make large fires in the streets, whence it is called
Firebrand Sunday. This practice originated in the processions formerly made on that day by
the peasants with lighted torches of straw, to drive away, as they called it, the bad air from
the earth."[282] In some parts of France, while the people scoured the country with burning
brands on the first Sunday in Lent, they warned the fruit-trees that if they did not take heed
and bear fruit they would surely be cut down and cast into the fire.[283] On the same day peasants
in the department of Loiret used to run about the sowed fields with burning torches in their
hands, while they adjured the field-mice to quit the wheat on pain of having their whiskers
burned.[284] In the department of Ain the great fires of straw and faggots which are kindled
in the fields at this time are or were supposed to destroy the nests of the caterpillars.[285]
At Verges, a lonely village surrounded by forests between the Jura and the Combe d'Ain, the
torches used at this season were kindled in a peculiar manner. The young people climbed to
the top of a mountain, where they placed three nests of straw in three trees. Two lads followed
it with levers to set it in motion again, in case it should anywhere meet with a check. A single
lad may fling up forty or fifty of these discs, one after the other. The object is to throw
them as high as possible. The wand by which they are hurled must, at least in some parts of
Swabia, be of hazel. Sometimes the lads also leap over the fire brandishing lighted torches
of pine-wood. The charred embers of the burned "witch" and discs are taken home and planted
in the flaxfields the same night, in the belief that they will keep vermin from the fields.[292]
At Wangen, near Molsheim in Baden, a like custom is observed on the first Sunday in Lent. The
young people kindle a bonfire on the crest of the mountain above the village; and the burning
discs which they hurl into the air are said to present in the darkness the aspect of a continual
shower of falling stars. When the supply of discs is exhausted and the bonfire begins to burn
low, the boys light torches and run with them at full speed down one or other of the three
steep and winding paths that descend the mountain-side to the village. On the following Sunday
the people ascended the hill, cut down the oak, set fire to the wheel, and sent both oak and
wheel rolling down the hillside, while a guard of butchers, mounted on horses, fired at the
flaming wheel in its descent. The same custom of rolling lighted wheels down hill is attested
by old authorities for the cantons of Aargau and Bâle. In the district of Freiburg and at Birseck
in the district of Bâle it was the last married man or woman who must kindle the bonfire. While
the bonfires blazed up, it was customary in some parts of Switzerland to propel burning discs
of wood through the air by means of the same simple machinery which is used for the purpose
in Swabia. Each lad tried to send his disc fizzing and flaring through the darkness as far
as possible, and in discharging it he mentioned the name of the person to whose honour it was
dedicated. But in Prättigau the words uttered in launching the fiery discs referred to the
abundance which was apparently expected to follow the performance of the ceremony. The Easter Fires

[Fire-festivals on Easter Eve. Great was the jubilation while the effigy of the traitor was
being consumed in the flames. The ashes were carefully collected and thrown away at sunrise
in running water.[306] In many parts of the Abruzzi, also, pious people kindle their fires
on Easter Saturday with a brand brought from the sacred new fire in the church. When the brand
has thus served to bless the fire on the domestic hearth, it is extinguished, and the remainder
is preserved, partly in a cranny of the outer wall of the house, partly on a tree to which
it is tied. This is done for the purpose of guarding the homestead against injury by storms.
At Campo di Giove the people say that if you can get a piece of one of the three holy candles
which the priest lights from the new fire, you should allow a few drops of the wax to fall
into the crown of your hat; for after that, if it should thunder and lighten, you have nothing
to do but to clap the hat on your head, and no flash of lightning can possibly strike you.[307]

[Water as well as fire consecrated in the Abruzzi on Easter Saturday; water consecrated in
Calabria on Easter Saturday; water and fire consecrated on Easter Saturday among the Germans
of Bohemia; Easter rites of fire and water at Hildesheim.]

Further, it deserves to be noted that in the Abruzzi water as well as fire is, as it were,
renewed and consecrated on Easter Saturday. Most people fetch holy water on that day from the
churches, and every member of the family drinks a little of it, believing that it has power
to protect him or her against witchcraft, fever, and stomach-aches of all sorts. And when the
church bells ring again after their enforced silence, the water is sprinkled about the house,
and especially under the beds, with the help of a palm-branch. Some of this blessed water is
also kept in the house for use in great emergencies, when there is no time to fetch a priest;
thus it may be employed to baptize a newborn infant gasping for life or to sprinkle a sick
man in the last agony; such a sprinkling is reckoned equal to priestly absolution.[308] In
Calabria the customs with regard to the new water, as it is called, on Easter Saturday are
similar; it is poured into a new vessel, adorned with ribbons and flowers, is blessed by the
priest, and is tasted by every one of the household, beginning with the parents. And when the
air vibrates with the glad music of the church bells announcing the resurrection, the people
sprinkle the holy water about the houses, bidding in a loud voice all evil things to go forth
and all good things to come in. At the same time, to emphasize the exorcism, they knock on
doors, window-shutters, chests, and other domestic articles of furniture. At Cetraro people
who suffer from diseases of the skin bathe in the sea at this propitious moment; at Pietro
in Guarano they plunge into the river on the night of Easter Saturday before Easter Sunday
dawns, and while they bathe they utter never a word. Moreover, the Calabrians keep the "new
water" as a sacred thing. They believe that it serves as a protection against witchcraft if
it is sprinkled on a fire or a lamp, when the wood crackles or the wick sputters; for they
regard it as a bad omen when the fire talks, as they say.[309] Among the Germans of Western
Bohemia, also, water as well as fire is consecrated by the priest in front of the church on
Easter Saturday. People bring jugs full of water to the church and set them beside the holy
fire; afterwards they use the water to sprinkle on the palm-branches which are stuck in the
fields. Charred sticks of the Judas fire, as it is popularly called, are supposed to possess
a magical and healing virtue; hence the people take them home with them, and even scuffle with
each other for the still glowing embers in order to carry them, still glimmering, to their
houses and so obtain "the light" or "the holy light."[310] At Hildesheim, also, and the neighbouring
villages of central Germany rites both of fire and water are or were till lately observed at
Easter. Thus on Easter night many people fetch water from the Innerste river and keep it carefully,
believing it to be a remedy for many sorts of ailments both of man and beast. In the villages
on the Leine river servant men and maids used to go silently on Easter night between the hours
of eleven and twelve and silently draw water in buckets from the river; they mixed the water
with the fodder and the drink of the cattle to make the animals thrive, and they imagined that
to wash in it was good for human beings. Many were also of opinion that at the same mystic
hour the water turned to wine as far as the crowing of a cock could be heard, and in this belief
they laid themselves flat on their stomachs and kept their tongues in the water till the miraculous
change occurred, when they took a great gulp of the transformed water. At Hildesheim, too,
and the neighbouring villages fires used to blaze on all the heights on Easter Eve; and embers
taken from the bonfires were dipped in the cattle troughs to benefit the beasts and were kept
in the houses to avert lightning.[311]

[New fire at Easter in Carinthia; consecration of fire and water by the Catholic Church at Easter.]

In the Lesachthal, Carinthia, all the fires in the houses used to be extinguished on Easter
Saturday, and rekindled with a fresh fire brought from the churchyard, where the priest had
lit it by the friction of flint and steel and had bestowed his blessing on it.[312] Such customs
were probably widespread. In a Latin poem of the sixteenth century, written by a certain Thomas
Kirchmeyer and translated into English by Barnabe Googe, we read:--

"On Easter Eve the fire all is quencht in every place, And fresh againe from out the flint
is fetcht with solemne grace: The priest doth halow this against great daungers many one, A
brande whereof doth every man with greedie mind take home, That when the fearefull storme appeares,
or tempest black arise, By lighting this he safe may be from stroke of hurtful skies: A taper
great, the Paschall namde, with musicke then they blesse, And franckensence herein they pricke,
for greater holynesse: This burneth night and day as signe of Christ that conquerde hell, As
if so be this foolish toye suffiseth this to tell. Then doth the Bishop or the Priest, the
water halow straight, That for their baptisme is reservde: for now no more of waight Is that
they usde the yeare before, nor can they any more, Yong children christen with the same, as
they have done before. With wondrous pompe and furniture, amid the Church they go, With candles,
crosses, banners, Chrisme, and oyle appoynted tho: Nine times about the font they marche, and
on the saintes doe call, Then still at length they stande, and straight the Priest begins withall,
And thrise the water doth he touche, and crosses thereon make, Here bigge and barbrous wordes
he speakes, to make the devill quake: And holsome waters conjureth, and foolishly doth dresse,
Supposing holyar that to make, which God before did blesse: And after this his candle than,
he thrusteth in the floode, And thrise he breathes thereon with breath, that stinkes of former
foode: And making here an ende, his Chrisme he poureth thereupon, The people staring hereat
stande, amazed every one; Beleeving that great powre is given to this water here, By gaping
of these learned men, and such like trifling gere. Therefore in vessels brought they draw,
and home they carie some, Against the grieves that to themselves, or to their beastes may come.
Then Clappers ceasse, and belles are set againe at libertée, And herewithall the hungrie times
of fasting ended bée."[313]

It is said that formerly all the fires in Rome were lighted afresh from the holy fire kindled
in St. Peter's on Easter Saturday.[314]

[The new fire on Easter Saturday at Florence.]

In Florence the ceremony of kindling the new fire on Easter Eve is peculiar. The holy flame
is elicited from certain flints which are said to have been brought by a member of the Pazzi
family from the Holy Land. They are kept in the church of the Holy Apostles on the Piazza del
Limbo, and on the morning of Easter Saturday the prior strikes fire from them and lights a
candle from the new flame. The burning candle is then carried in solemn procession by the clergy
and members of the municipality to the high altar in the cathedral. A vast crowd has meanwhile
assembled in the cathedral and the neighbouring square to witness the ceremony; amongst the
spectators are many peasants drawn from the surrounding country, for it is commonly believed
that on the success or failure of the ceremony depends the fate of the crops for the year.
Outside the door of the cathedral stands a festal car drawn by two fine white oxen with gilded
horns. The body of the car is loaded with a pyramid of squibs and crackers and is connected
by a wire with a pillar set up in front of the high altar. The wire extends down the middle
of the nave at a height of about six feet from the ground. Beneath it a clear passage is left,
the spectators being ranged on either side and crowding the vast interior from wall to wall.
When all is ready, High Mass is celebrated, and precisely at noon, when the first words of
the Gloria are being chanted, the sacred fire is applied to the pillar, which like the car
is wreathed with fireworks. A moment more and a fiery dove comes flying down the nave, with
a hissing sound and a sputter of sparks, between the two hedges of eager spectators. If all
goes well, the bird pursues its course along the wire and out at the door, and in another moment
a prolonged series of fizzes, pops and bangs announces to the excited crowd in the cathedral
that the fireworks on the car are going off. Great is the joy accordingly, especially among
the bumpkins, who are now sure of an abundant harvest. But if, as sometimes happens, the dove
stops short in its career and fizzles out, revealing itself as a stuffed bird with a packet
of squibs tied to its tail, great is the consternation, and deep the curses that issue from
between the set teeth of the clodhoppers, who now give up the harvest for lost. Formerly the
unskilful mechanician who was responsible for the failure would have been clapped into gaol;
but nowadays he is thought sufficiently punished by the storm of public indignation and the
loss of his pay. The disaster is announced by placards posted about the streets in the evening;
and next morning the newspapers are full of gloomy prognostications.[315]

[The new fire and burning of Judas on Easter Saturday in Mexico.]

Some of these customs have been transported by the Catholic Church to the New World. Thus in
Mexico the new fire is struck from a flint early in the morning of Easter Saturday, and a candle
which has been lighted at the sacred flame is carried through the church by a deacon shouting
"Lumen Christi." Meantime the whole city, we are informed, has been converted into a vast place
of execution. Ropes stretch across the streets from house to house, and from every house dangles
an effigy of Judas, made of paper pulp. Scores or hundreds of them may adorn a single street.
They are of all shapes and sizes, grotesque in form and garbed in strange attire, stuffed with
gunpowder, squibs and crackers, sometimes, too, with meat, bread, soap, candy, and clothing,
for which the crowd will scramble and scuffle while the effigies are burning. There they hang
grim, black, and sullen in the strong sunshine, greeted with a roar of execration by the pious
mob. A peal of bells from the cathedral tower on the stroke of noon gives the signal for the
execution. At the sound a frenzy seizes the crowd. They throw themselves furiously on the figures
of the detested traitor, cut them down, hurl them with curses into the fire, and fight and
struggle with each other in their efforts to tear the effigies to tatters and appropriate their
contents. Smoke, stink, sputter of crackers, oaths, curses, yells are now the order of the
day. But the traitor does not perish unavenged. For the anatomy of his frame has been cunningly
contrived so as in burning to discharge volleys of squibs into his assailants; and the wounds
and burns with which their piety is rewarded form a feature of the morning's entertainment.
The English Jockey Club in Mexico used to improve on this popular pastime by suspending huge
figures of Judas, stuffed with copper coins, from ropes in front of their clubhouse. These
were ignited at the proper moment and lowered within reach of the expectant rabble, and it
was the privilege of members of the club, seated in the balcony, to watch the grimaces and
to hear the shrieks of the victims, as they stamped and capered about with the hot coppers
sticking to their hands, divided in their minds between an acute sense of pain and a thirst
for filthy lucre.[316]

[The burning of Judas at Easter in South America.]

Scenes of the same sort, though on a less ambitious scale, are witnessed among the Catholics
of South America on the same day. In Brazil the mourning for the death of Christ ceases at
noon on Easter Saturday and gives place to an extravagant burst of joy at his resurrection.
Shots are fired everywhere, and effigies of Judas are hung on trees or dragged about the streets,
to be finally burned or otherwise destroyed.[317] In the Indian villages scattered among the
wild valleys of the Peruvian Andes figures of the traitor, made of pasteboard and stuffed with
squibs and crackers, are hanged on gibbets before the door of the church on Easter Saturday.
Fire is set to them, and while they crackle and explode, the Indians dance and shout for joy
at the destruction of their hated enemy.[318] Similarly at Rio Hacha, in Colombia, Judas is
represented during Holy Week by life-sized effigies, and the people fire at them as if they
were discharging a sacred duty.[319]

[The new fire on Easter Saturday in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem.]

But usages of this sort are not confined to the Latin Church; they are common to the Greek
Church also. Every year on the Saturday before Easter Sunday a new fire is miraculously kindled
at the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. It descends from heaven and ignites the candles which the
patriarch holds in his hands, while with closed eyes he wrestles in prayer all alone in the
chapel of the Angel. The worshippers meanwhile wait anxiously in the body of the church, and
great are their transports of joy when at one of the windows of the chapel, which had been
all dark a minute before, there suddenly appears the hand of an angel, or of the patriarch,
holding a lighted taper. This is the sacred new fire; it is passed out to the expectant believers,
and the desperate struggle which ensues among them to get a share of its blessed influence
is only terminated by the intervention of the Turkish soldiery, who restore peace and order
by hustling the whole multitude impartially out of the church. In days gone by many lives were
often lost in these holy scrimmages. For example, in the year 1834, the famous Ibrahim Pasha
witnessed the frantic scene from one of the galleries, and, being moved with compassion at
the sight, descended with a few guards into the arena in the chimerical hope of restoring peace
and order among the contending Christians. He contrived to force his way into the midst of
the dense crowd, but there the heat and pressure were so great that he fainted away; a body
of soldiers, seeing his danger, charged straight into the throng and carried him out of it
in their arms, trampling under foot the dying and dead in their passage. Nearly two hundred
people were killed that day in the church. The fortunate survivors on these occasions who succeeded
in obtaining a portion of the coveted fire applied it freely to their faces, their beards,
and their garments. The theory was that the fire, being miraculous, could only bless and not
burn them; but the practical results of the experiment were often disappointing, for while
the blessings were more or less dubious, there could be no doubt whatever about the burns.[320]
The history of the miracle has been carefully investigated by a Jesuit father. The conclusions
at which he arrives are that the miracle was a miracle indeed so long as the Catholics had
the management of it; but that since it fell into the hands of the heretics it has been nothing
but a barefaced trick and imposture.[321] Many people will be disposed to agree with the latter
conclusion who might hesitate to accept the former.

[The new fire and the burning of Judas on Easter Saturday in Greece.]

At Athens the new fire is kindled in the cathedral at midnight on Holy Saturday. A dense crowd
with unlit candles in their hands fills the square in front of the cathedral; the king, the
archbishop, and the highest dignitaries of the church, arrayed in their gorgeous robes, occupy
a platform; and at the exact moment of the resurrection the bells ring out, and the whole square
bursts as by magic into a blaze of light. Theoretically all the candles are lit from the sacred
new fire in the cathedral, but practically it may be suspected that the matches which bear
the name of Lucifer have some share in the sudden illumination.[322] Effigies of Judas used
to be burned at Athens on Easter Saturday, but the custom has been forbidden by the Government.
However, firing goes on more or less continuously all over the city both on Easter Saturday
and Easter Sunday, and the cartridges used on this occasion are not always blank. The shots
are aimed at Judas, but sometimes they miss him and hit other people. Outside of Athens the
practice of burning Judas in effigy still survives in some places. For example, in Cos a straw
image of the traitor is made on Easter Day, and after being hung up and shot at it is burned.[323]
A similar custom appears to prevail at Thebes;[324] it used to be observed by the Macedonian
peasantry, and it is still kept up at Therapia, a fashionable summer resort of Constantinople.[325]

[The new fire at Candlemas in Armenia.]

In the Armenian Church the sacred new fire is kindled not at Easter but at Candlemas, that
is, on the second of February, or on the eve of that festival. The materials of the bonfire
are piled in an open space near a church, and they are generally ignited by young couples who
have been married within the year. However, it is the bishop or his vicar who lights the candles
with which fire is set to the pile. All young married pairs are expected to range themselves
about the fire and to dance round it. Young men leap over the flames, but girls and women content
themselves with going round them, while they pray to be preserved from the itch and other skin-diseases.
When the ceremony is over, the people eagerly pick up charred sticks or ashes of the fire and
preserve them or scatter them on the four corners of the roof, in the cattle-stall, in the
garden, and on the pastures; for these holy sticks and ashes protect men and cattle against
disease, and fruit-trees against worms and caterpillars. Omens, too, are drawn from the direction
in which the wind blows the flames and the smoke: if it carries them eastward, there is hope
of a good harvest; but if it inclines them westward, the people fear that the crops will fail.[326]

[The new fire and the burning of Judas at Easter are probably relics of paganism.]

In spite of the thin cloak of Christianity thrown over these customs by representing the new
fire as an emblem of Christ and the figure burned in it as an effigy of Judas, we can hardly
doubt that both practices are of pagan origin. Neither of them has the authority of Christ
or of his disciples; but both of them have abundant analogies in popular custom and superstition.
Some instances of the practice of annually extinguishing fires and relighting them from a new
and sacred flame have already come before us;[327] but a few examples may here be cited for
the sake of illustrating the wide diffusion of a custom which has found its way into the ritual
both of the Eastern and of the Western Church.

[The new fire at the summer solstice among the Incas of Peru; the new fire among the Indians
of Mexico and New Mexico; the new fire among the Esquimaux.]

The Incas of Peru celebrated a festival called Raymi, a word which their native historian Garcilasso
de la Vega tells us was equivalent to our Easter. It was held in honour of the sun at the solstice
in June. For three days before the festival the people fasted, men did not sleep with their
wives, and no fires were lighted in Cuzco, the capital. The sacred new fire was obtained direct
from the sun by concentrating his beams on a highly polished concave plate and reflecting them
on a little cotton wool. With this holy fire the sheep and lambs offered to the sun were consumed,
and the flesh of such as were to be eaten at the festival was roasted. Portions of the new
fire were also conveyed to the temple of the sun and to the convent of the sacred virgins,
where they were kept burning all the year, and it was an ill omen if the holy flame went out.[328]
At a festival held in the last month of the old Mexican year all the fires both in the temples
and in the houses were extinguished, and the priest kindled a new fire by rubbing two sticks
against each other before the image of the fire-god.[329] The Zuni Indians of New Mexico kindle
a new fire by the friction of wood both at the winter and the summer solstice. At the winter
solstice the chosen fire-maker collects a faggot of cedar-wood from every house in the village,
and each person, as he hands the wood to the fire-maker, prays that the crops may be good in
the coming year. For several days before the new fire is kindled, no ashes or sweepings may
be removed from the houses and no artificial light may appear outside of them, not even a burning
cigarette or the flash of firearms. The Indians believe that no rain will fall on the fields
of the man outside whose house a light has been seen at this season. The signal for kindling
the new fire is given by the rising of the Morning Star. The flame is produced by twirling
an upright stick between the hands on a horizontal stick laid on the floor of a sacred chamber,
the sparks being caught by a tinder of cedar-dust. It is forbidden to blow up the smouldering
tinder with the breath, for that would offend the gods. After the fire has thus been ceremonially
kindled, the women and girls of all the families in the village clean out their houses. They
carry the sweepings and ashes in baskets or bowls to the fields and leave them there. To the
sweepings the woman says: "I now deposit you as sweepings, but in one year you will return
to me as corn." And to the ashes she says: "I now deposit you as ashes, but in one year you
will return to me as meal." At the summer solstice the sacred fire which has been procured
by the friction of wood is used to kindle the grass and trees, that there may be a great cloud
of smoke, while bull-roarers are swung and prayers offered that the Rain-makers up aloft will
water the earth.[330] From this account we see how intimately the kindling of a new fire at
the two turning-points of the sun's course is associated in the minds of these Indians with
the fertility of the land, particularly with the growth of the corn. The rolling smoke is apparently
an imitation of rain-clouds designed, on the principle of homoeopathic magic, to draw showers
from the blue sky. Once a year the Iroquois priesthood supplied the people with a new fire.
As a preparation for the annual rite the fires in all the huts were extinguished and the ashes
scattered about. Then the priest, wearing the insignia of his office, went from hut to hut
relighting the fires by means of a flint.[331] Among the Esquimaux with whom C.F. Hall resided,
it was the custom that at a certain time, which answered to our New Year's Day, two men went
about from house to house blowing out every light in the village. One of the men was dressed
to represent a woman. Afterwards the lights were rekindled from a fresh fire. An Esquimau woman
being asked what all this meant, replied, "New sun--new light."[332] Among the Esquimaux of
Iglulik, when the sun first rises above the horizon after the long night of the Arctic winter,
the children who have watched for his reappearance run into the houses and blow out the lamps.
Then they receive from their mothers presents of pieces of wick.[333]

[The new fire in Wadai, among the Swahili, and in other parts of Africa.]

In the Sudanese kingdom of Wadai all the fires in the villages are put out and the ashes removed
from the houses on the day which precedes the New Year festival. At the beginning of the new
year a new fire is lit by the friction of wood in the great straw hut where the village elders
lounge away the sultry hours together; and every man takes thence a burning brand with which
he rekindles the fire on his domestic hearth.[334] In the Bahr-el-Ghazal province of the Egyptian
Sudan the people extinguish their old fires at the Arab New Year and bring in new fire. On
the same occasion they beat the walls of their huts, the grass thatches, and the walls of their
enclosures in order to drive away the devil or evil spirits. The beating of the walls and roofs
is accompanied by the firing of guns, the shouting of men, and the shriller cries of the women.[335]
Thus these people combine an annual expulsion of demons with an annual lighting of a new fire.
Among the Swahili of East Africa the greatest festival is that of the New Year, which falls
in the second half of August. At a given moment all the fires are extinguished with water and
afterwards relit by the friction of two dry pieces of wood. The ashes of the old fires are
carried out and deposited at cross-roads. All the people get up very early in the morning and
bathe in the sea or some other water, praying to be kept in good health and to live that they
may bathe again next year. Sham-fights form part of the amusements of the day; sometimes they
pass into grim reality. Indeed the day was formerly one of general license; every man did that
which was good in his own eyes. No awkward questions were asked about any crimes committed
on this occasion, so some people improved the shining hour by knocking a few poor devils on
the head. Shooting still goes on during the whole day, and at night the proceedings generally
wind up with a great dance.[336] The King of Benametapa, as the early Portuguese traders called
him, in East Africa used to send commissioners annually to every town in his dominions; on
the arrival of one of these officers the inhabitants of each town had to put out all their
fires and to receive a new fire from him. Failure to comply with this custom was treated as
rebellion.[337] Some tribes of British Central Africa carefully extinguish the fires on the
hearths at the beginning of the hoeing season and at harvest; the fires are afterwards rekindled
by friction, and the people indulge in dances of various kinds.[338]

[The new fire among the Todas of Southern India and among the Nagas of North-Eastern India.]

The Todas of the Neilgheny Hills, in Southern India, annually kindle a sacred new fire by the
friction of wood in the month which begins with the October moon. The ceremony is performed
by two holy dairymen at the foot of a high hill. When they have lighted the fire by rubbing
two dry sticks together, and it begins to burn well, they stand a little way off and pray,
saying, "May the young grass flower! May honey flourish! May fruit ripen!" The purpose of the
ceremony is to make the grass and honey plentiful. In ancient times the Todas lived largely
on wild fruits, and then the rite of the new fire was very important. Now that they subsist
chiefly on the milk of their buffaloes, the ceremony has lost much of its old significance.[339]
When the Nagas of North-Eastern India have felled the timber and cut down the scrub in those
patches of jungle which they propose to cultivate, they put out all the fires in the village
and light a new fire by rubbing two dry pieces of wood together. Then having kindled torches
at it they proceed with them to the jungle and ignite the felled timber and brushwood. The
flesh of a cow or buffalo is also roasted on the new fire and furnishes a sacrificial meal.[340]
Near the small town of Kahma in Burma, between Prome and Thayetmyo, certain gases escape from
a hollow in the ground and burn with a steady flame during the dry season of the year. The
people regard the flame as the forge of a spectral smith who here carried on his business after
death had removed him from his old smithy in the village. Once a year all the household fires
in Kahma are extinguished and then lighted afresh from the ghostly flame.[341]

[The new fire in China and Japan.]

In China every year, about the beginning of April, certain officials, called Sz'hüen, used
of old to go about the country armed with wooden clappers. Their business was to summon the
people and command them to put out every fire. This was the beginning of a season called Han-shih-tsieh,
or "eating cold food." For three days all household fires remained extinct as a preparation
for the solemn renewal of the fire, which took place on the fifth or sixth day of April, being
the hundred and fifth day after the winter solstice. The ceremony was performed with great
pomp by the same officials, who procured the new fire from heaven by reflecting the sun's rays
either from a metal mirror or from a crystal on dry moss. Fire thus obtained is called by the
Chinese heavenly fire, and its use is enjoined in sacrifices; whereas fire elicited by the
friction of wood is termed by them earthly fire, and its use is prescribed for cooking and
other domestic purposes. When once the new fire had thus been drawn from the sun, all the people
were free to rekindle their domestic hearths; and, as a Chinese distich has it--

"At the festival of the cold food there are a thousand white stalks
    among the flowers;
On the day Tsing-ming, at sunrise, you may see the smoke of ten
thousand houses."

According to a Chinese philosopher, the reason for thus renewing fire periodically is that
the vital principle grows weaker and weaker in old fire, whereas in new fire it is young and
vigorous. This annual renewal of fire was a ceremony of very great antiquity in China, since
it is known to have been observed in the time of the first dynasty, about two thousand years
before Christ. Under the Tcheou dynasty a change in the calendar led to shifting the fire-festival
from spring to the summer solstice, but afterwards it was brought back to its original date.
Although the custom appears to have long fallen into disuse, the barbarous inhabitants of Hainan,
an island to the south of China, still call a year "a fire," as if in memory of the time when
the years were reckoned by the annually recurring ceremony of rekindling the sacred fire.[342]
"A Japanese book written two centuries ago informs us that sticks resembling the wands used
for offerings at the purification ceremony were part shaven and set up in bundles at the four
corners of the Gion shrine on the last day of the year. The priests, after prayers were recited,
broke up the bundles and set fire to the sticks, which the people then carried home to light
their household fires with for the New Year. The object of this ceremony was to avert pestilence."[343]

[The new fire in ancient Greece and Rome.]

In classical antiquity the Greek island of Lemnos was devoted to the worship of the smith-god
Hephaestus, who was said to have fallen on it when Zeus hurled him from heaven.[344] Once a
year every fire in the island was extinguished and remained extinct for nine days, during which
sacrifices were offered to the dead and to the infernal powers. New fire was brought in a ship
from the sacred isle of Delos, and with it the fires in the houses and the workshops were relit.
The people said that with the new fire they made a new beginning of life. If the ship that
bore the sacred flame arrived too soon, it might not put in to shore, but had to cruise in
the offing till the nine days were expired.[345] At Rome the sacred fire in the temple of Vesta
was kindled anew every year on the first of March, which used to be the beginning of the Roman
year;[346] the task of lighting it was entrusted to the Vestal Virgins, and they performed
it by drilling a hole in a board of lucky wood till the flame was elicited by friction. The
new fire thus produced was carried into the temple of Vesta by one of the virgins in a bronze
sieve.[347]

[The new fire at Hallow E'en among the old Celts of Ireland; the new fire on September 1st
among the Russian peasants.]

Among the Celts of Ireland a new fire was annually kindled on Hallowe'en or the Eve of Samhain,
as they called it, the last day of October, from which the Irish new year began; and all the
hearths throughout the country are said to have been relighted from the fresh fire. The place
where this holy flame was lit bore the name of Tlachtga or Tlactga; it has been identified
with a rath or native fort on the Hill of Ward near Athboy in the county of Meath. "It was
there," says the old Irish historian, Geoffrey Keating, "that the Festival of the Fire of Tlactga
was ordered to be held, and it was thither that the Druids of Ireland were wont to repair and
to assemble, in solemn meeting, on the eve of Samhain, for the purpose of making a sacrifice
to all the gods. It was in that fire at Tlactga, that their sacrifice was burnt; and it was
made obligatory, under pain of punishment, to extinguish all the fires of Ireland, on that
eve; and the men of Ireland were allowed to kindle no other fire but that one; and for each
of the other fires, which were all to be lighted from it, the king of Munster was to receive
a tax of a sgreball, that is, of three pence, because the land, upon which Tlactga was built,
belongs to the portion of Meath which had been taken from Munster."[348] In the villages near
Moscow at the present time the peasants put out all their fires on the eve of the first of
September, and next morning at sunrise a wise man or a wise woman rekindles them with the help
of muttered incantations and spells.[349]

[Thus the ceremony of the new fire in the Eastern and Western Church is probably a relic of
an old heathen rite.]

Instances of such practices might doubtless be multiplied, but the foregoing examples may suffice
to render it probable that the ecclesiastical ceremony of lighting a sacred new fire on Easter
Saturday had originally nothing to do with Christianity, but is merely one case of a world-wide
custom which the Church has seen fit to incorporate in its ritual. It might be supposed that
in the Western Church the custom was merely a survival of the old Roman usage of renewing the
fire on the first of March, were it not that the observance by the Eastern Church of the custom
on the same day seems to point back to a still older period when the ceremony of lighting a
new fire in spring, perhaps at the vernal equinox, was common to many peoples of the Mediterranean
area. We may conjecture that wherever such a ceremony has been observed, it originally marked
the beginning of a new year, as it did in ancient Rome and Ireland, and as it still does in
the Sudanese kingdom of Wadai and among the Swahili of Eastern Africa. Fathers of families
form an inner circle round it. When the fire has burned out, the whole assembly marches in
solemn procession to the church, singing hymns. They go thrice round the church, and then break
up. They are made with a tar-barrel fastened to a pine-tree, which is wrapt in straw. The people
dance singing round them.[353] In the Harz Mountains the fire is commonly made by piling brushwood
about a tree and setting it on fire. At Osterode every one tries to snatch a brand from the
bonfire and runs about with it; the better it burns, the more lucky it is. In Grund there are
torch-races.[354] In the Altmark the Easter bonfires are composed of tar-barrels, bee-hives,
and so forth, piled round a pole. The young folk dance round the fire; and when it has died
out, the old folk come and collect the ashes, which they preserve as a remedy for the ailments
of bees. Thus on Easter Monday in some parts of Middle Franken the schoolboys collect all the
old worn-out besoms they can lay hands on, and march with them in a long procession to a neighbouring
height. When the first chime of the evening bell comes up from the dale they set fire to the
brooms, and run along the ridges waving them, so that seen from below the hills appear to be
crested with a twinkling and moving chain of fire.[358] In some parts of Upper Bavaria at Easter
burning arrows or discs of wood were shot from hill-tops high into the air, as in the Swabian
and Swiss customs already described.[359] At Oberau, instead of the discs, an old cart-wheel
was sometimes wrapt in straw, ignited, and sent rolling and blazing down the mountain. Two
of them had to watch the glowing embers the whole night long, lest people should come and steal
them. Next morning at sunrise they carefully collected the ashes, and threw them into the running
water of the Röten brook. Well-to-do women gave him two; poorer women gave him only one. The
object of the whole ceremony was to keep off the hail. About a century ago the Judas fire,
as it was called, was put down by the police.[362] At Giggenhausen and Aufkirchen, two other
villages of Upper Bavaria, a similar custom prevailed, yet with some interesting differences.
At Zoznegg down to about 1850 the fire was lighted by the priest by means of a flint which
had never been used before. People bring sticks, especially oaken sticks, char them in the
fire, and then carry them home and keep them in the house as a preservative against lightning.
At Zoznegg these oaken sticks were sword-shaped, each about an ell and a half long, and they
went by the name of "weather or thunder poles" (Wetterpfähle). When a thunderstorm threatened
to break out, one of the sticks was put into a small fire, in order that the hallowed smoke,
ascending to the clouds, might ward off the lightning from the house and the hail from the
fields and gardens. At Schöllbronn the oaken sticks, which are thus charred in the Easter bonfire
and kept in the house as a protective against thunder and lightning, are three in number, perhaps
with an allusion to the Trinity; they are brought every Easter to be consecrated afresh in
the bonfire, till they are quite burnt away. In the lake district of Baden it is also customary
to burn one of these holy sticks in the fire when a heavy thunderstorm is raging.[365] Hence
it seems that the ancient association of the oak with the thunder[366] persists in the minds
of German peasants to the present day. Next day, on Easter Saturday, the remains of the holy
oil are burnt before the church door in a fire which must be kindled with flint and steel.
This fire is called "the burning of Judas," but in spite of its evil name a beneficent virtue
is ascribed to it, for the people scuffle for the cinders, which they put in the roofs of their
houses as a safeguard against fire and lightning.[369]

§ 3. From his voluminous manuscripts, written in the last quarter of the eighteenth century,
a selection was published in the latter part of the nineteenth century. The following account
of Beltane is extracted from a chapter dealing with Highland superstitions. Of later years
it is chiefly attended to by young people, persons advanced in years considering it as inconsistent
with their gravity to give it any countenance. Yet a number of circumstances relative to it
may be collected from tradition, or the conversation of very old people, who witnessed this
feast in their youth, when the ancient rites were better observed.

"This festival was longest observed in the interior Highlands, for towards the west coast the
traces of it are faintest. In Glenorchy and Lorne, a large cake is made on that day, which
they consume in the house; and in Mull it has a large hole in the middle, through which each
of the cows in the fold is milked. In Tiree it is of a triangular form. The more elderly people
remember when this festival was celebrated without-doors with some solemnity in both these
islands. There are at present no vestiges of it in Skye or the Long Island, the inhabitants
of which have substituted the connach Micheil or St. Michael's cake. It is made at Michaelmas
with milk and oatmeal, and some eggs are sprinkled on its surface. Part of it is sent to the
neighbours.

"It is probable that at the original Beltane festival there were two fires kindled near one
another. When any person is in a critical dilemma, pressed on each side by unsurmountable difficulties,
the Highlanders have a proverb, The e' eada anda theine bealtuin--i.e., he is between the two
Beltane fires. There are in several parts small round hills, which, it is like, owe their present
names to such solemn uses. One of the highest and most central in Icolmkil is called Cnoch-nan-ainneal--i.e.,
the hill of the fires. There is another of the same name near the kirk of Balquhidder; and
at Killin there is a round green eminence which seems to have been raised by art. It is called
Tom-nan-ainneal--i.e., the eminence of the fires. Around it there are the remains of a circular
wall about two feet high. On the top a stone stands upon end. According to the tradition of
the inhabitants, it was a place of Druidical worship; and it was afterwards pitched on as the
most venerable spot for holding courts of justice for the country of Breadalbane. As a rule,
no danger attended these curious celebrations, but occasionally somebody's clothes caught fire,
which was quickly put out. The greatest fire of the year was the eve of May, or May first,
second, or third. The Midsummer Eve fire was more for the harvest. Very often a fire was built
on the eve of November. The high ground near the Castle Ditches at Llantwit Major, in the Vale
of Glamorgan, was a familiar spot for the Beltane on May third and on Midsummer Eve.... Sometimes
the Beltane fire was lighted by the flames produced by stone instead of wood friction. Charred
logs and faggots used in the May Beltane were carefully preserved, and from them the next fire
was lighted. May fires were always started with old faggots of the previous year, and midsummer
from those of the last summer. It was unlucky to build a midsummer fire from May faggots. People
carried the ashes left after these fires to their homes, and a charred brand was not only effectual
against pestilence, but magical in its use. A few of the ashes placed in a person's shoes protected
the wearer from any great sorrow or woe."[380]

[Welsh belief that passage over or between the fires ensured good crops.]

From the foregoing account we learn that bonfires were kindled in Wales on Midsummer Eve and
Hallowe'en (the thirty-first of October), as well as at the beginning of May, but that the
Beltane fires in May were deemed the most important. To the Midsummer Eve and Hallowe'en fires
we shall return presently. On the first of May, 1837, the Baal fires were, as usual on that
day, so numerous as to give the island the appearance of a general conflagration."[382] By
May Day in Manx folk-lore is meant May Day Old Style, or Shenn Laa Boaldyn, as it is called
in Manx. The day was one on which the power of elves and witches was particularly dreaded,
and the people resorted to many precautions in order to protect themselves against these mischievous
beings. Hence at daybreak they set fire to the ling or gorse, for the purpose of burning out
the witches, who are wont to lurk in the form of hares.[383] On the Hemlock Stone, a natural
pillar of sandstone standing on Stapleford Hill in Nottinghamshire, a fire used to be solemnly
kindled every year on Beltane Eve. In the year in which St. Patrick landed in Ireland it chanced
that the night of the extinguished fires coincided with the Eve of Easter; and the saint, ignorant
of this pagan superstition, resolved to celebrate his first Easter in Ireland after the true
Christian fashion by lighting the holy Paschal fire on the hill of Slane, which rises high
above the left bank of the Boyne, about twelve miles from the mouth of the river. So that night,
looking from his palace at Tara across the darkened landscape, the king of Tara saw the solitary
fire flaring on the top of the hill of Slane, and in consternation he asked his wise men what
that light meant. They warned him of the danger that it betokened for the ancient faith of
Erin.[387] In spite of the difference of date between Easter and Beltane, we may suspect that
the new fire annually kindled with solemn ceremony about Easter in the king of Ireland's palace
at Tara was no other than the Beltane fire. We have seen that in the Highlands of Scotland
down to modern times it was customary to extinguish all fires in the neighbourhood before proceeding
to kindle the sacred flame.[388] The Irish historian Geoffrey Keating, who wrote in the first
part of the seventeenth century, tells us that the men of Ireland held a great fair every year
in the month of May at Uisnech (Ushnagh) in the county of Meath, "and at it they were wont
to exchange their goods and their wares and their jewels. At it, they were, also, wont to make
a sacrifice to the Arch-God that they adored, whose name was Bèl (bayl). It was, likewise,
their usage to light two fires to Bèl, in every district of Ireland, at this season, and to
drive a pair of each kind of cattle that the district contained, between those two fires, as
a preservative to guard them against all the diseases of that year. Thus Sir John Rhys was
informed by a Manxman that an Irish cattle-dealer of his acquaintance used to drive his cattle
through fire on May Day so as to singe them a little, since he believed that it would preserve
them from harm. When thus till night they daunced have, they through the fire amaine With striving
mindes doe runne, and all their hearbes they cast therin, And then with wordes devout and prayers,
they solemnely begin, Desiring God that all their illes may there consumed bee, Whereby they
thinke through all that yeare from Agues to be free. Some of them followed the fiery wheel,
and watched with amusement the shifts to which its guides were put in steering it round the
hollows and over the broken ground on the mountainside. In some places the people shewed their
sense of the sanctity of the fires by using for fuel the trees past which the gay procession
had defiled, with fluttering banners, on Corpus Christi Day. In others the children collected
the firewood from door to door on the eve of the festival, singing their request for fuel at
every house in doggerel verse. But it was especially the practice for lovers to spring over
the fire hand in hand, and the way in which each couple made the leap was the subject of many
a jest and many a superstition. Bonfires are kindled on the mountains on Midsummer Day; and
besides the bonfire a tall beam, thickly wrapt in straw and surmounted by a cross-piece, is
burned in many places. Round this cross as it burns the lads dance with loud shouts; and when
the flames have subsided, the young people leap over the fire in pairs, a young man and a young
woman together. If they escape unsmirched, the man will not suffer from fever, and the girl
will not become a mother within the year. About mid-day troops of boys went about the town
begging for firewood at the houses. In each troop there were three leaders, one of whom carried
a dagger, a second a paper banner, and a third a white plate covered with a white cloth. These
three entered each house and recited verses, in which they expressed an intention of roasting
Martin Luther and sending him to the devil; and for this meritorious service they expected
to be paid, the contributions being received in the cloth-covered plate. In the evening they
counted up their money and proceeded to "behead the Angel-man." For this ceremony an open space
was chosen, sometimes in the middle of the town. Here a stake was thrust into the ground and
straw wrapt about it, so as to make a rude effigy of human form with arms, head, and face.
Every boy brought a handful of nosegays and fastened them to the straw-man, who was thus enveloped
in flowers. Fuel was heaped about the stake and set on fire. When the Angel-man, as the straw-effigy
was called, blazed up, all the boys of the neighbourhood, who had gathered expectantly around,
fell upon him with their wooden swords and hewed him to pieces. As soon as he had vanished
in smoke and flame, the lads leaped backward and forward over the glowing embers, and later
in the evening they feasted on the proceeds of their collection.[408] Here the Angel-man burnt
in the fire appears to be identified with Martin Luther, to whom, as we have seen, allusion
was made during the house-to-house visitation. The identification was probably modern, for
we may assume that the custom of burning an effigy in the Midsummer bonfire is far older than
the time of Luther. But most of the villagers, old and young, gathered round the bonfires,
leaving a clear space for the leapers to take their run. One of the bystanders would call out
the names of a pair of sweethearts; on which the two would step out from the throng, take each
other by the hand, and leap high and lightly through the swirling smoke and flames, while the
spectators watched them critically and drew omens of their married life from the height to
which each of them bounded. Such an invitation to jump together over the bonfire was regarded
as tantamount to a public betrothal.[410] Near Offenburg, in the Black Forest, on Midsummer
Day the village boys used to collect faggots and straw on some steep and conspicuous height,
and they spent some time in making circular wooden discs by slicing the trunk of a pine-tree
across. When darkness had fallen, they kindled the bonfire, and then, as it blazed up, they
lighted the discs at it, and, after swinging them to and fro at the end of a stout and supple
hazel-wand, they hurled them one after the other, whizzing and flaming, into the air, where
they described great arcs of fire, to fall at length, like shooting-stars, at the foot of the
mountain.[411] In many parts of Alsace and Lorraine the midsummer fires still blaze annually
or did so not very many years ago.[412] At Speicher in the Eifel, a district which lies on
the middle Rhine, to the west of Coblentz, a bonfire used to be kindled in front of the village
on St. John's Day, and all the young people had to jump over it. Those who failed to do so
were not allowed to join the rest in begging for eggs from house to house. Where no eggs were
given, they drove a wedge into the keyhole of the door. On this day children in the Eifel used
also to gather flowers in the fields, weave them into garlands, and throw the garlands on the
roofs or hang them on the doors of the houses. So long as the flowers remained there, they
were supposed to guard the house from fire and lightning.[413] In the southern Harz district
and in Thuringia the Midsummer or St. John's fires used to be commonly lighted down to about
the middle of the nineteenth century, and the custom has probably not died out. Sometimes the
holes are smooth and round; sometimes they are deeply burnt and blackened. The explanation
of them is this. About midsummer, but especially on Midsummer Day, two such holes are bored
opposite each other, into which the extremities of a strong pole are fixed. The holes are then
stuffed with tow steeped in resin and oil; a rope is looped round the pole, and two young men,
who must be brothers or must have the same baptismal name, and must be of the same age, pull
the ends of the rope backwards and forwards so as to make the pole revolve rapidly, till smoke
and sparks issue from the two holes in the door-posts. The sparks are caught and blown up with
tinder, and this is the new and pure fire, the appearance of which is greeted with cries of
joy. Heaps of combustible materials are now ignited with the new fire, and blazing bundles
are placed on boards and sent floating down the brook. The boys light torches at the new fire
and run to fumigate the pastures. This is believed to drive away all the demons and witches
that molest the cattle. Finally the torches are thrown in a heap on the meadow and allowed
to burn out. On their way back the boys strew the ashes over the fields, which is supposed
to make them fertile. If a farmer has taken possession of a new house, or if servants have
changed masters, the boys fumigate the new abode and are rewarded by the farmer with a supper.[416]

[Midsummer fires in Silesia; scaring away the witches.]

In Silesia, from the south-eastern part of the Sudeten range and north-westward as far as Lausitz,
the mountains are ablaze with bonfires on Midsummer Eve; and from the valleys and the plains
round about Leobschütz, Neustadt, Zülz, Oels, and other places answering fires twinkle through
the deepening gloom. While they are smouldering and sending forth volumes of smoke across the
fields, young men kindle broom-stumps, soaked in pitch, at the bonfires and then, brandishing
the stumps, which emit showers of sparks, they chase one another or dance with the girls round
the burning pile. Shots, too, are fired, and shouts raised. The fire, the smoke, the shots,
and the shouts are all intended to scare away the witches, who are let loose on this witching
day, and who would certainly work harm to the crops and the cattle, if they were not deterred
by these salutary measures. Mere contact with the fire brings all sorts of blessings. Hence
when the bonfire is burning low, the lads leap over it, and the higher they bound, the better
is the luck in store for them. He who surpasses his fellows is the hero of the day and is much
admired by the village girls. It is also thought to be very good for the eyes to stare steadily
at the bonfire without blinking; moreover he who does so will not drowse and fall asleep betimes
in the long winter evenings. On Midsummer Eve the windows and doors of houses in Silesia are
crowned with flowers, especially with the blue cornflowers and the bright corn-cockles; in
some villages long strings of garlands and nosegays are stretched across the streets. As many
as fifty or sixty bonfires may often be counted burning on the hills round Bergen. Sometimes
fuel is piled on rafts, ignited, and allowed to drift blazing across the fiords in the darkness
of night. Before each handful of flowers is tossed into the fire, a set speech is made; then
the dance is resumed and the dancers sing in chorus the last words of the speech. On the same
mystic evening Moravian girls gather flowers of nine sorts and lay them under their pillow
when they go to sleep; then they dream every one of him who is to be her partner for life.
For in Moravia maidens in their beds as well as poets by haunted streams have their Midsummer
Night's dreams.[429] In Austrian Silesia the custom also prevails of lighting great bonfires
on hilltops on Midsummer Eve, and here too the boys swing blazing besoms or hurl them high
in the air, while they shout and leap and dance wildly. Next morning every door is decked with
flowers and birchen saplings.[430] In the district of Cracow, especially towards the Carpathian
Mountains, great fires are kindled by the peasants in the fields or on the heights at nightfall
on Midsummer Eve, which among them goes by the name of Kupalo's Night. The fire must be kindled
by the friction of two sticks. The young people dance round or leap over it; and a band of
sturdy fellows run a race with lighted torches, the winner being rewarded with a peacock's
feather, which he keeps throughout the year as a distinction. Cattle also are driven round
the fire in the belief that this is a charm against pestilence and disease of every sort.[431]

[The Midsummer fires among the Slavs of Russia; cattle protected against witchcraft; the fires
lighted by the friction of wood.]

The name of Kupalo's Night, applied in this part of Galicia to Midsummer Eve, reminds us that
we have now passed from German to Slavonic ground; even in Bohemia the midsummer celebration
is common to Slavs and Germans. The people drink and dance and sing and adorn themselves and
their houses with flowers and branches. Chopped boughs of fir are strewn about the rooms, and
leaves are stuck in the roofs. In every farm-yard a birch tree is set up, and every person
of the name of John who enters the farm that day must break off a twig from the tree and hang
up on its branches in return a small present for the family. When the serene twilight of the
summer night has veiled the landscape, bonfires gleam on all the hills, and wild shouts of
"Ligho! Ligho!" echo from the woods and fields. In Riga the day is a festival of flowers. From
all the neighbourhood the peasants stream into the city laden with flowers and garlands. A
market of flowers is held in an open square and on the chief bridge over the river; here wreaths
of immortelles, which grow wild in the meadows and woods, are sold in great profusion and deck
the houses of Riga for long afterwards. Roses, too, are now at the prime of their beauty, and
masses of them adorn the flower-stalls. Till far into the night gay crowds parade the streets
to music or float on the river in gondolas decked with flowers.[440] So long ago in ancient
Rome barges crowned with flowers and crowded with revellers used to float down the Tiber on
Midsummer Day, the twenty-fourth of June,[441] and no doubt the strains of music were wafted
as sweetly across the water to listeners on the banks as they still are to the throngs of merrymakers
at Riga.

[The Midsummer fires among the South Slavs.]

Bonfires are commonly kindled by the South Slavonian peasantry on Midsummer Eve, and lads and
lasses dance and shout round them in the usual way. The very names of St. John's Day (Ivanje)
and the St. John's fires (kries) are said to act like electric sparks on the hearts and minds
of these swains, kindling a thousand wild, merry, and happy fancies and ideas in their rustic
breasts. At Kamenagora in Croatia the herdsmen throw nine three-year old vines into the bonfire,
and when these burst into flames the young men who are candidates for matrimony jump through
the blaze. He who succeeds in leaping over the fire without singeing himself will be married
within the year. At Vidovec in Croatia parties of two girls and one lad unite to kindle a Midsummer
bonfire and to leap through the flames; he or she who leaps furthest will soonest wed. At Nograd-Ludany
the young men and women, each carrying a truss of straw, repair to a meadow, where they pile
the straw in seven or twelve heaps and set it on fire. Then they go round the fire singing,
and hold a bunch of iron-wort in the smoke, while they say, "No boil on my body, no sprain
in my foot!" This holding of the flowers over the flames is regarded, we are told, as equally
important with the practice of walking through the fire barefoot and stamping it out. On the
Eve of St. John all the people of a farm, a village, or an estate, walk solemnly in procession,
the girls decked with flowers, the men with leaves and carrying bundles of straw under their
arms. The lads carry lighted torches or flaming hoops steeped in tar at the top of long poles.
Thus they go singing to the cattle-sheds, the granaries, and so forth, and afterwards march
thrice round the dwelling-house. Finally, preceded by the shrill music of the bagpipes and
shawms, they repair to a neighbouring hill, where the materials of a bonfire have been collected.
Tar-barrels filled with combustibles are hung on poles, or the trunk of a felled tree has been
set up with a great mass of juniper piled about it in the form of a pyramid. When a light has
been set to the pile, old and young gather about it and pass the time merrily with song and
music till break of day. Every one who comes brings fresh fuel for the fire, and they say,
"Now we all gather together, where St. John's fire burns. He who comes not to St. John's fire
will have his barley full of thistles, and his oats full of weeds." Three logs are thrown into
the fire with special ceremony; in throwing the first they say, "Gold of pleasure (a plant
with yellow flowers) into the fire!" in throwing the second they say, "Weeds to the unploughed
land!" but in throwing the third they cry, "Flax on my field!" The bonfire was made by setting
up four tall birches in a square and piling the intermediate space with fuel. Round the roaring
flames the people sang and drank and gambolled in the usual way.[449] Farther east, in the
valley of the Volga, the Cheremiss celebrate about midsummer a festival which Haxthausen regarded
as identical with the midsummer ceremonies of the rest of Europe. A sacred tree in the forest,
generally a tall and solitary oak, marks the scene of the solemnity. All the males assemble
there, but no woman may be present. A heathen priest lights seven fires in a row from north-west
to south-east; cattle are sacrificed and their blood poured in the fires, each of which is
dedicated to a separate deity. These superstitions, he goes on to say, consisted in dancing
round the fire, playing, feasting, singing ribald songs, throwing herbs across the fire, gathering
herbs at noon or while fasting, carrying them on the person, preserving them throughout the
year, keeping brands or cinders of the fire, and other similar practices.[453] However excellent
the intentions of the ecclesiastical authorities may have been, they failed of effecting their
purpose; for the superstitions as well as the bonfires survived in France far into the nineteenth
century, if indeed they are extinct even now at the beginning of the twentieth. Writing in
the latter part of the nineteenth century Mr. Ch. Cuissard tells us that he himself witnessed
in Touraine and Poitou the superstitious practices which he describes as follows: "The most
credulous examine the ways in which the flame burns and draw good or bad omens accordingly.
Others, after leaping through the flames crosswise, pass their little children through them
thrice, fully persuaded that the little ones will then be able to walk at once. In some places
the shepherds make their sheep tread the embers of the extinct fire in order to preserve them
from the foot-rot. Here you may see about midnight an old woman grubbing among the cinders
of the pyre to find the hair of the Holy Virgin or Saint John, which she deems an infallible
specific against fever. There, another woman is busy plucking the roots of the herbs which
have been burned on the surface of the ground; she intends to eat them, imagining that they
are an infallible preservative against cancer. Elsewhere a girl wears on her neck a flower
which the touch of St. John's fire has turned for her into a talisman, and she is sure to marry
within the year. Shots are fired at the tree planted in the midst of the fire to drive away
the demons who might purpose to send sicknesses about the country. Seats are set round about
the bonfire, in order that the souls of dead relations may come and enjoy themselves for a
little with the living."[454]

[The Midsummer fires in Brittany; uses made of the charred sticks and flowers.]

In Brittany, apparently, the custom of the Midsummer bonfires is kept up to this day. Thus
in Lower Brittany every town and every village still lights its tantad or bonfire on St. John's
Night. Everybody brings fuel for the fire, it may be a faggot, a log, a branch, or an armful
of gorse. When the vespers are over, the parish priest sets a light to the pile. All heads
are bared, prayers recited, and hymns sung. Then the dancing begins. The young folk skip round
the blazing pile and leap over it, when the flames have died down. If anybody makes a false
step and falls or rolls in the hot embers, he or she is greeted with hoots and retires abashed
from the circle of dancers. Brands are carried home from the bonfire to protect the houses
against lightning, conflagrations, and certain maladies and spells. The precious talisman is
carefully kept in a cupboard till St. John's Day of the following year.[456] At Quimper, and
in the district of Léon, chairs used to be placed round the midsummer bonfire, that the souls
of the dead might sit on them and warm themselves at the blaze.[457] At Brest on this day thousands
of people used to assemble on the ramparts towards evening and brandish lighted torches, which
they swung in circles or flung by hundreds into the air. The closing of the town gates put
an end to the spectacle, and the lights might be seen dispersing in all directions like wandering
will-o'-the-wisps.[458] In Upper Brittany the materials for the midsummer bonfires, which generally
consist of bundles of furze and heath, are furnished by voluntary contributions, and piled
on the tops of hills round poles, each of which is surmounted by a nosegay or a crown. This
nosegay or crown is generally provided by a man named John or a woman named Jean, and it is
always a John or a Jean who puts a light to the bonfire. While the fire is blazing the people
dance and sing round it, and when the flames have subsided they leap over the glowing embers.
Charred sticks from the bonfire are thrown into wells to improve the water, and they are also
taken home as a protection against thunder.[459] To make them thoroughly effective, however,
against thunder and lightning you should keep them near your bed, between a bit of a Twelfth
Night cake and a sprig of boxwood which has been blessed on Palm Sunday.[460] Flowers from
the nosegay or crown which overhung the fire are accounted charms against disease and pain,
both bodily and spiritual; hence girls hang them at their breast by a thread of scarlet wool.
In many parishes of Brittany the priest used to go in procession with the crucifix and kindle
the bonfire with his own hands; and farmers were wont to drive their flocks and herds through
the fire in order to preserve them from sickness till midsummer of the following year. Also
it was believed that every girl who danced round nine of the bonfires would marry within the
year.[461]

[The Midsummer fires in Normandy; the fires as a protection against witchcraft; the Brotherhood
of the Green Wolf at Jumièges; pretence of throwing the Green Wolf into the fire.]

In Normandy the midsummer fires have now almost disappeared, at least in the district known
as the Bocage, but they used to shine on every hill. They were commonly made by piling brushwood,
broom, and ferns about a tall tree, which was decorated with a crown of moss and sometimes
with flowers. While they burned, people danced and sang round them, and young folk leaped over
the flames or the glowing ashes. Then they danced before the door till it was time to light
the bonfire. As the flames rose, the Te Deum was sung, and a villager thundered out a parody
in the Norman dialect of the hymn ut queant laxis. No unbecoming word might fall from the lips
of any of the company, and a censor, armed with a hand-bell, was appointed to mark and punish
instantly any infraction of the rule. Some of them took ashes of the fire home with them to
protect the houses against lightning.[464] The custom is, or was down to recent years, similar
at Vorges, near Laon. An enormous pyre, some fifty or sixty feet high, supported in the middle
by a tall pole, is constructed every year on the twenty-third of June, the Eve of St. John.
It stands at one end of the village, and all the inhabitants contribute fuel to it: a cart
goes round the village in the morning, by order of the mayor, collecting combustibles from
house to house: no one would dream of refusing to comply with the customary obligation. In
the evening, after a service in honour of St. John has been performed in the church, the clergy,
the mayor, the municipal authorities, the rural police, and the fire-brigade march in procession
to the bonfire, accompanied by the inhabitants and a crowd of idlers drawn by curiosity from
the neighbouring villages. After addressing the throng in a sermon, to which they pay little
heed, the parish priest sprinkles the pyre with holy water, and taking a lighted torch from
the hand of an assistant sets fire to the pile. The enormous blaze, flaring up against the
dark sky of the summer night, is seen for many miles around, particularly from the hill of
Laon. When it has died down into a huge heap of glowing embers and grey ashes, every one carries
home a charred stick or some cinders; and the fire-brigade, playing their hose on what remains,
extinguishes the smouldering fire. The site of the bonfire was either the village square or
beside the cross in the cemetery. Here a great pile of faggots, brushwood, and grass was accumulated
about a huge branch, which bore at the top a crown of fresh flowers. The priest blessed the
bonfire and the people danced round it. When it blazed and crackled, the bystanders thrust
their heads into the puffs of smoke, in the belief that it would preserve them from a multitude
of ills; and when the fire was burnt out, they rushed upon the charred embers and ashes and
carried them home, imagining that they had a secret virtue to guard their houses from being
struck by lightning or consumed by fire. Some of the Perche farmers in the old days, not content
with the public bonfire, used to light little private bonfires in their farmyards and make
all their cattle pass through the smoke and flames for the purpose of protecting them against
witchcraft or disease.[467]

[The Midsummer fires in the Ardennes, the Vosges, and the Jura; the Midsummer fires in Franche-Comté;
the Midsummer fires in Berry and other parts of Central France.]

In the department of the Ardennes every one was wont to contribute his faggot to the midsummer
bonfire, and the clergy marched at the head of the procession to kindle it. Failure to light
the fires would, in the popular belief, have exposed the fields to the greatest danger. They
were lit on the most conspicuous points of the landscape.[470] Near St. Jean, in the Jura,
it appears that at this season young people still repair to the cross-roads and heights, and
there wave burning torches so as to present the appearance of fiery wheels in the darkness.[471]
In Franche-Comté, the province of France which lies immediately to the west of the Jura mountains,
the fires of St. John still shone on the saint's day in several villages down to recent years.
They were generally lit on high ground and the young folks of both sexes sang and danced round
them, and sprang over the dying flames.[472] In Bresse bonfires used to be kindled on Midsummer
Eve (the twenty-third of June) and the people danced about them in a circle. Devout persons,
particularly old women, circumambulated the fires fourteen times, telling their beads and mumbling
seven Paters and seven Aves in the hope that thereby they would feel no pains in their backs
when they stooped over the sickle in the harvest field.[473] In Berry, a district of Central
France, the midsummer fire was lit on the Eve of St. John and went by the name of the jônée,
joannée, or jouannée. Every family according to its means contributed faggots, which were piled
round a pole on the highest ground in the neighbourhood. In the hamlets the office of kindling
the fire devolved on the oldest man, but in the towns it was the priest or the mayor who discharged
the duty. Here, as in Brittany, people supposed that a girl who had danced round nine of the
midsummer bonfires would marry within the year. To leap several times over the fire was regarded
as a sort of purification which kept off sickness and brought good luck to the leaper. Hence
the nimble youth bounded through the smoke and flames, and when the fire had somewhat abated
parents jumped across it with their children in their arms in order that the little ones might
also partake of its beneficent influence. Embers from the extinct bonfire were taken home,
and after being dipped in holy water were kept as a talisman against all kinds of misfortune,
but especially against lightning.[474] The same virtue was ascribed to the ashes and charred
sticks of the midsummer bonfire in Périgord, where everybody contributed his share of fuel
to the pile and the whole was crowned with flowers, especially with roses and lilies.[475]
On the borders of the departments of Creuse and Corrèze, in Central France, the fires of St.
John used to be lit on the Eve of the saint's day (the twenty-third of June); the custom seems
to have survived till towards the end of the nineteenth century. Men, women, and children assembled
round the fires, and the young people jumped over them. Children were brought by their parents
or elder brothers into contact with the flames in the belief that this would save them from
fever. The oldest or youngest person present sets a light to the pile, which consists of broom,
gorse, and heath. A bright and crackling blaze shoots up, but soon dies down, and over it the
young folk leap. They also throw stones into it, picking the stone according to the size of
the turnips that they wish to have that year. It is said that "the good Virgin" comes and sits
on the prettiest of the stones, and next morning they see there her beautiful golden tresses.
At Lussac, in Poitou, the lighting of the midsummer bonfire is still an affair of some ceremony.
A pyramid of faggots is piled round a tree or tall pole on the ground where the fair is held;
the priest goes in procession to the spot and kindles the pile. When prayers have been said
and the clergy have withdrawn, the people continue to march round the fire, telling their beads,
but it is not till the flames have begun to die down that the youth jump over them. A brand
from the midsummer bonfire is supposed to be a preservative against thunder.[480]

[The Midsummer fires in the departments of Vienne and Deux-Sèvres and in the provinces of Saintonge
and Aunis.]

In the department of Vienne the bonfire was kindled by the oldest man, and before the dance
round the flames began it was the custom to pass across them a great bunch of mullein (bouillon
blanc) and a branch of walnut, which next morning before sunrise were fastened over the door
of the chief cattle-shed.[481] A similar custom prevailed in the neighbouring department of
Deux-Sèvres; but here it was the priest who kindled the bonfire, and old men used to put embers
of the fire in their wooden shoes as a preservative against many evils.[482] In some towns
and villages of Saintonge and Aunis, provinces of Western France now mostly comprised in the
department of Charente Inférieure, the fires of St. John are still kindled on Midsummer Eve,
but the custom is neither so common nor carried out with so much pomp and ceremony as formerly.
Great quantities of wood used to be piled on an open space round about a huge post or a tree
stripped of its leaves and branches. Every one took care to contribute a faggot to the pile,
and the whole population marched to the spot in procession with the crucifix at their head
and the priest bringing up the rear. The squire, or other person of high degree, put the torch
to the pyre, and the priest blessed it. In the southern and eastern parts of Saintonge children
and cattle were passed through the smoke of the bonfires to preserve them from contagious diseases,
and when the fire had gone out the people scuffled for the charred fragments of the great post,
which they regarded as talismans against thunder. Next morning, on Midsummer Day, every shepherdess
in the neighbourhood was up very early, for the first to drive her sheep over the blackened
cinders and ashes of the great bonfire was sure to have the best flock all that year. So on
the Eve of St. John the villagers assemble, and an old man or a child kindles the fire which
is to consume tree and garlands together. While the blaze lasts the people sing and dance;
and the burnt tree is then replaced by another which will suffer the same fate after the lapse
of a year.[485] In some districts of the French Pyrenees it is deemed necessary to leap nine
times over the midsummer fire if you would be assured of prosperity.[486] A traveller in Southern
France at the beginning of the nineteenth century tells us that "the Eve of St. John is also
a day of joy for the Provençals. They light great fires and the young folk leap over them.
At Aix they shower squibs and crackers on the passers-by, which has often had disagreeable
consequences. At Marseilles they drench each other with scented water, which is poured from
the windows or squirted from little syringes; the roughest jest is to souse passers-by with
clean water, which gives rise to loud bursts of laughter."[487] At Draguignan, in the department
of Var, fires used to be lit in every street on the Eve of St. John, and the people roasted
pods of garlic at them; the pods were afterwards distributed to every family. Dancing began
later, and the bystanders threw water on each other. At Ciotat, while the fire was blazing,
the young people plunged into the sea and splashed each other vigorously. People leap across
the fires to protect themselves against fever, and in eastern Flanders women perform similar
leaps for the purpose of ensuring an easy delivery. At Termonde young people go from door to
door collecting fuel for the fires and reciting verses, in which they beg the inmates to give
them "wood of St. John" and to keep some wood for St. Peter's Day (the twenty-ninth of June);
for in Belgium the Eve of St. Peter's Day is celebrated by bonfires and dances exactly like
those which commemorate St. John's Eve. The ashes of the St. John's fires are deemed by Belgian
peasants an excellent remedy for consumption, if you take a spoonful or two of them, moistened
with water, day by day. People also burn vervain in the fires, and they say that in the ashes
of the plant you may find, if you look for it, the "Fool's Stone."[491] In many parts of Brabant
St. Peter's bonfire used to be much larger than that of his rival St. John. When it had burned
out, both sexes engaged in a game of ball, and the winner became the King of Summer or of the
Ball and had the right to choose his Queen. Sometimes the winner was a woman, and it was then
her privilege to select her royal mate. This pastime was well known at Louvain and it continued
to be practised at Grammont and Mespelaer down to the second half of the nineteenth century.
At Mespelaer, which is a village near Termonde, a huge pile of eglantine, reeds, and straw
was collected in a marshy meadow for the bonfire; and next evening after vespers the young
folk who had lit it assembled at the "Good Life" tavern to play the game. The winner was crowned
with a wreath of roses, and the rest danced and sang in a ring about him. At Grammont, while
the bonfire was lit and the dances round it took place on St. Peter's Eve, the festival of
the "Crown of Roses" was deferred till the following Sunday. The young folk arranged among
themselves beforehand who should be King and Queen of the Roses: the rosy wreaths were hung
on cords across the street: the dancers danced below them, and at a given moment the wreaths
fell on the heads of the chosen King and Queen, who had to entertain their fellows at a feast.
"On the Vigil of Saint John the Baptist, commonly called Midsummer Eve, it was usual in most
country places, and also in towns and cities, for the inhabitants, both old and young, and
of both sexes, to meet together, and make merry by the side of a large fire made in the middle
of the street, or in some open and convenient place, over which the young men frequently leaped
by way of frolic, and also exercised themselves with various sports and pastimes, more especially
with running, wrestling, and dancing. These diversions they continued till midnight, and sometimes
till cock-crowing."[495] In the streets of London the midsummer fires were lighted in the time
of Queen Elizabeth down to the end of the sixteenth century, as we learn from Stow's description,
which runs thus: "In the months of June and July, on the vigils of festival days, and on the
same festival days in the evenings after the sun setting, there were usually made bonfires
in the streets, every man bestowing wood or labour towards them; the wealthier sort also, before
their doors near to the said bonfires, would set out tables on the vigils furnished with sweet
bread and good drink, and on the festival days with meats and drinks plentifully, whereunto
they would invite their neighbours and passengers also to sit and be merry with them in great
familiarity, praising God for His benefits bestowed on them. These were called bonfires as
well of good amity amongst neighbours that being before at controversy, were there, by the
labour of others, reconciled, and made of bitter enemies loving friends; and also for the virtue
that a great fire hath to purge the infection of the air. On the vigil of St. John the Baptist,
and on St. Peter and Paul the Apostles, every man's door being shadowed with green birch, long
fennel, St John's wort, orpin, white lilies, and such like, garnished upon with garlands of
beautiful flowers, had also lamps of glass, with oil burning in them all the night; some hung
out branches of iron curiously wrought, containing hundreds of lamps alight at once, which
made a goodly show, namely, in New Fish Street, Thames Street, etc."[496] In the sixteenth
century the Eton boys used to kindle a bonfire on the east side of the church both on St John's
Day and on St. Peter's Day.[497] Writing in the second half of the seventeenth century, the
antiquary John Aubrey tells us that bonfires were still kindled in many places on St. John's
Night, but that the civil wars had thrown many of these old customs out of fashion. Wars, he
adds, extinguish superstition as well as religion and laws, and there is nothing like gunpowder
for putting phantoms to flight.[498]

[The Midsummer fires in the north of England; the Midsummer fires in Northumberland.]

In the north of England these fires used to be lit in the open streets. Young and old gathered
round them, and while the young leaped over the fires and engaged in games, their elders looked
on and probably remembered with regret the days when they used to foot it as nimbly. Sometimes
the fires were kindled on the tops of high hills. The people also carried firebrands about
the fields.[499] The custom of kindling bonfires on Midsummer Eve prevailed all over Cumberland
down to the second half of the eighteenth century.[500] In Northumberland the custom seems
to have lasted into the first quarter of the nineteenth century; the fires were lit in the
villages and on the tops of high hills, and the people sported and danced round them.[501]
Moreover, the villagers used to run with burning brands round their fields and to snatch ashes
from a neighbour's fire, saying as they did so, "We have the flower (or flour) of the wake."[502]
At Sandhill bonfires were kindled on the Eve of St. Peter as well as on Midsummer Eve; the
custom is attested for the year 1575, when it was described as ancient.[503] We are told that
"on Midsummer's eve, reckoned according to the old style, it was formerly the custom of the
inhabitants, young and old, not only of Whalton, but of most of the adjacent villages, to collect
a large cartload of whins and other combustible materials, which was dragged by them with great
rejoicing (a fiddler being seated on the top of the cart) into the village and erected into
a pile. The people from the surrounding country assembled towards evening, when it was set
on fire; and whilst the young danced around it, the elders looked on smoking their pipes and
drinking their beer, until it was consumed. There can be little doubt that this curious old
custom dates from a very remote antiquity." In a law-suit, which was tried in 1878, the rector
of Whalton gave evidence of the constant use of the village green for the ceremony since 1843.
"The bonfire," he said, "was lighted a little to the north-east of the well at Whalton, and
partly on the footpath, and people danced round it and jumped through it. That was never interrupted."
The Rev. G.R. Hall, writing in 1879, says that "the fire festivals or bonfires of the summer
solstice at the Old Midsummer until recently were commemorated on Christenburg Crags and elsewhere
by leaping through and dancing round the fires, as those who have been present have told me."[504]
Down to the early part of the nineteenth century bonfires called Beal-fires used to be lit
on Midsummer Eve all over the wolds in the East Riding of Yorkshire.[505]

[The Midsummer fires in Herefordshire, Somersetshire, Devonshire, and Cornwall; the Cornish
fires on Midsummer Eve and St. Peter's Eve.]

In Herefordshire and Somersetshire the peasants used to make fires in the fields on Midsummer
Eve "to bless the apples."[506] In Devonshire the custom of leaping over the midsummer fires
was also observed.[507] "In Cornwall, the festival fires, called bonfires, are kindled on the
Eves of St. John Baptist and St. Peter's day; and Midsummer is thence, in the Cornish tongue,
called Goluan, which signifies both light and rejoicing. At these fires the Cornish attend
with lighted torches, tarred and pitched at the end, and make their perambulations round their
fires, going from village to village and carrying their torches before them; this is certainly
the remains of Druid superstition; for, Faces praeferre, to carry lighted torches was reckoned
a kind of gentilism, and as such particularly prohibited by the Gallick Councils."[508] At
Penzance and elsewhere in the county the people danced and sang about the bonfires on Midsummer
Eve. On Whiteborough, a large tumulus near Launceston, a huge bonfire used to be kindled on
Midsummer Eve; a tall summer pole with a large bush at the top was fixed in the centre of the
bonfire.[509] The Cornish fires at this season appear to have been commonly lit on high and
conspicuous hills, such as Tregonan, Godolphin, Carnwarth, and Cam Brea. When it grew dusk
on Midsummer Eve, old men would hobble away to some height whence they counted the fires and
drew a presage from their number.[510] "It is the immemorial usage in Penzance, and the neighbouring
towns and villages, to kindle bonfires and torches on Midsummer-eve; and on Midsummer-day to
hold a fair on Penzance quay, where the country folks assemble from the adjoining parishes
in great numbers to make excursions on the water. St. Peter's Eve (the twenty-eighth of June)
is distinguished by a similar display of bonfires and torches, although the 'quay-fair' on
St. Peter's-day (the twenty-ninth of June), has been discontinued upwards of forty years. On
these eves a line of tar-barrels, relieved occasionally by large bonfires, is seen in the centre
of each of the principal streets in Penzance. On either side of this line young men and women
pass up and down, swinging round their heads heavy torches made of large pieces of folded canvas
steeped in tar, and nailed to the ends of sticks between three and four feet long; the flames
of some of these almost equal those of the tar-barrels. Rows of lighted candles, also, when
the air is calm, are fixed outside the windows or along the sides of the streets. In St. Just,
and other mining parishes, the young miners, mimicking their fathers' employments, bore rows
of holes in the rocks, load them with gunpowder, and explode them in rapid succession by trains
of the same substance. As the holes are not deep enough to split the rocks, the same little
batteries serve for many years. On these nights, Mount's Bay has a most animating appearance,
although not equal to what was annually witnessed at the beginning of the present century,
when the whole coast, from the Land's End to the Lizard, wherever a town or a village existed,
was lighted up with these stationary or moving fires. In the early part of the evening, children
may be seen wearing wreaths of flowers--a custom in all probability originating from the ancient
use of these ornaments when they danced around the fires. At the close of the fireworks in
Penzance, a great number of persons of both sexes, chiefly from the neighbourhood of the quay,
used always, until within the last few years, to join hand in hand, forming a long string,
and run through the streets, playing 'thread the needle,' heedless of the fireworks showered
upon them, and oftentimes leaping over the yet glowing embers. I have on these occasions seen
boys following one another, jumping through flames higher than themselves."[511]

[The Midsummer fires in Wales and the Isle of Man; burning wheel rolled down hill.]

In Wales the midsummer fires were kindled on St. John's Eve and on St. John's Day. Various
herbs were thrown into the blaze; and girls with bunches of three or nine different kinds of
flowers would take the hands of boys, who wore flowers in their buttonholes and hats, and together
the young couples would leap over the fires. On the same two midsummer days roses and wreaths
of flowers were hung over the doors and windows. "Describing a midsummer fire, an old inhabitant,
born in 1809, remembered being taken to different hills in the Vale of Glamorgan to see festivities
in which people from all parts of the district participated. She was at that time about fourteen,
and old enough to retain a vivid recollection of the circumstances. People conveyed trusses
of straw to the top of the hill, where men and youths waited for the contributions. Women and
girls were stationed at the bottom of the hill. Then a large cart-wheel was thickly swathed
with straw, and not an inch of wood was left in sight. A pole was inserted through the centre
of the wheel, so that long ends extended about a yard on each side. If any straw remained,
it was made up into torches at the top of tall sticks. At a given signal the wheel was lighted,
and sent rolling downhill. If this fire-wheel went out before it reached the bottom of the
hill, a very poor harvest was promised. If it kept lighted all the way down, and continued
blazing for a long time, the harvest would be exceptionally abundant. Accordingly, exactly
at midnight, the fires began to appear; and taking the advantage of going up to the leads of
the house, which had a widely extended view, I saw on a radius of thirty miles, all around,
the fires burning on every eminence which the country afforded. I had a farther satisfaction
in learning, from undoubted authority, that the people danced round the fires, and at the close
went through these fires, and made their sons and daughters, together with their cattle, pass
through the fire; and the whole was conducted with religious solemnity."[518] That the custom
prevailed in full force as late as 1867 appears from a notice in a newspaper of that date,
which runs thus: "The old pagan fire-worship still survives in Ireland, though nominally in
honour of St. John. On Sunday night bonfires were observed throughout nearly every county in
the province of Leinster. In Kilkenny, fires blazed on every hillside at intervals of about
a mile. There were very many in the Queen's County, also in Kildare and Wexford. The effect
in the rich sunset appeared to travellers very grand. The people assemble, and dance round
the fires, the children jump through the flames, and in former times live coals were carried
into the corn-fields to prevent blight."[519] In County Leitrim on St. John's Eve, which is
called Bonfire Day, fires are still lighted after dusk on the hills and along the sides of
the roads.[520] All over Kerry the same thing continues to be done, though not so commonly
as of old. Small fires were made across the road, and to drive through them brought luck for
the year. Cattle were also driven through the fires. On Lettermore Island, in South Connemara,
some of the ashes from the midsummer bonfire are thrown on the fields to fertilize them.[521]
One writer informs us that in Munster and Connaught a bone must always be burned in the fire;
for otherwise the people believe that the fire will bring no luck. He adds that in many places
sterile beasts and human beings are passed through the fire, and that as a boy he himself jumped
through the fire "for luck."[522] An eye-witness has described as follows a remarkable ceremony
observed in Ireland on Midsummer Eve: "When the fire burned for some hours, and got low, an
indispensable part of the ceremony commenced. Every one present of the peasantry passed through
it, and several children were thrown across the sparkling embers; while a wooden frame, of
some eight feet long, with a horse's head fixed to one end, and a large white sheet thrown
over it concealing the wood and the man on whose head it was carried, made its appearance.
This was greeted with loud shouts of 'The white horse!' and having been safely carried by the
skill of its bearer several times through the fire with a bold leap, it pursued the people,
who ran screaming and laughing in every direction. I asked what the horse was meant for, and
was told that it represented 'all cattle.'"[523]

[Lady Wilde's account of the Midsummer fires in Ireland.]

Lady Wilde's account of the midsummer festival in Ireland is picturesque and probably correct
in substance, although she does not cite her authorities. As it contains some interesting features
which are not noticed by the other writers on Ireland whom I have consulted, I will quote the
greater part of it in full. "In ancient times," she says, "the sacred fire was lighted with
great ceremony on Midsummer Eve; and on that night all the people of the adjacent country kept
fixed watch on the western promontory of Howth, and the moment the first flash was seen from
that spot the fact of ignition was announced with wild cries and cheers repeated from village
to village, when all the local fires began to blaze, and Ireland was circled by a cordon of
flame rising up from every hill. Then the dance and song began round every fire, and the wild
hurrahs filled the air with the most frantic revelry. Many of these ancient customs are still
continued, and the fires are still lighted on St. John's Eve on every hill in Ireland. When
the fire has burned down to a red glow the young men strip to the waist and leap over or through
the flames; this is done backwards and forwards several times, and he who braves the greatest
blaze is considered the victor over the powers of evil, and is greeted with tremendous applause.
When the fire burns still lower, the young girls leap the flame, and those who leap clean over
three times back and forward will be certain of a speedy marriage and good luck in after-life,
with many children. The married women then walk through the lines of the burning embers; and
when the fire is nearly burnt and trampled down, the yearling cattle are driven through the
hot ashes, and their back is singed with a lighted hazel twig. These rods are kept safely afterwards,
being considered of immense power to drive the cattle to and from the watering places. As the
fire diminishes the shouting grows fainter, and the song and the dance commence; while professional
story-tellers narrate tales of fairy-land, or of the good old times long ago, when the kings
and princes of Ireland dwelt amongst their own people, and there was food to eat and wine to
drink for all comers to the feast at the king's house. When the crowd at length separate, every
one carries home a brand from the fire, and great virtue is attached to the lighted brone which
is safely carried to the house without breaking or falling to the ground. Many contests also
arise amongst the young men; for whoever enters his house first with the sacred fire brings
the good luck of the year with him."[524]

[Holy water resorted to on Midsummer Eve in Ireland.]

In Ireland, as elsewhere, water was also apparently thought to acquire a certain mystical virtue
at midsummer. "At Stoole, near Downpatrick, there is a ceremony commencing at twelve o'clock
at night on Midsummer Eve. Its sacred mount is consecrated to St. Patrick; the plain contains
three wells, to which the most extraordinary virtues are attributed. Here and there are heaps
of stones, around some of which appear great numbers of people, running with as much speed
as possible; around others crowds of worshippers kneel with bare legs and feet as an indispensable
part of the penance. The men, without coats, with handkerchiefs on their heads instead of hats,
having gone seven times round each heap, kiss the ground, cross themselves, and proceed to
the hill; here they ascend, on their bare knees, by a path so steep and rugged that it would
be difficult to walk up. Many hold their hands clasped at the back of their necks, and several
carry large stones on their heads. Having repeated this ceremony seven times, they go to what
is called St. Patrick's Chair, which are two great flat stones fixed upright in the hill; here
they cross and bless themselves as they step in between these stones, and, while repeating
prayers, an old man, seated for the purpose, turns them round on their feet three times, for
which he is paid; the devotee then goes to conclude his penance at a pile of stones, named
the Altar. While this busy scene is continued by the multitude, the wells and streams issuing
from them are thronged by crowds of halt, maimed, and blind, pressing to wash away their infirmities
with water consecrated by their patron saint, and so powerful is the impression of its efficacy
on their minds, that many of those who go to be healed, and who are not totally blind, or altogether
crippled, really believe for a time that they are by means of its miraculous virtues perfectly
restored."[525]

[The Midsummer fires in Scotland; fires on St. Peter's Day (the twenty-ninth of June).]

In Scotland the traces of midsummer fires are few. We are told by a writer of the eighteenth
century that "the midsummer-even fire, a relict of Druidism," was kindled in some parts of
the county of Perth.[526] Another writer of the same period, describing what he calls the Druidical
festivals of the Highlanders, says that "the least considerable of them is that of midsummer.
In the Highlands of Perthshire there are some vestiges of it. The cowherd goes three times
round the fold, according to the course of the sun, with a burning torch in his hand. They
imagined this rite had a tendency to purify their herds and flocks, and to prevent diseases.
At their return the landlady makes an entertainment for the cowherd and his associates."[527]
In the northeast of Scotland, down to the latter half of the eighteenth century, farmers used
to go round their lands with burning torches about the middle of June.[528] On the hill of
Cairnshee, in the parish of Durris, Kincardineshire, the herdsmen of the country round about
annually kindle a bonfire at sunset on Midsummer Day (the twenty-fourth of June); the men or
lads collect the fuel and push each other through the smoke and flames. The custom is kept
up through the benefaction of a certain Alexander Hogg, a native of the parish, who died about
1790 and left a small sum for the maintenance of a midsummer bonfire on the spot, because as
a boy he had herded cattle on the hill. We may conjecture that in doing so he merely provided
for the continuance of an old custom which he himself had observed in the same place in his
youth.[529] At the village of Tarbolton in Ayrshire a bonfire has been annually kindled from
time immemorial on the evening of the first Monday after the eleventh of June. A noted cattle-market
was formerly held at the fair on the following day. The bonfire is still lit at the gloaming
by the lads and lasses of the village on a high mound or hillock just outside of the village.
Fuel for it is collected by the lads from door to door. The youth dance round the fire and
leap over the fringes of it. The many cattle-drovers who used to assemble for the fair were
wont to gather round the blazing pile, smoke their pipes, and listen to the young folk singing
in chorus on the hillock. Afterwards they wrapped themselves in their plaids and slept round
the bonfire, which was intended to last all night.[530] Thomas Moresin of Aberdeen, a writer
of the sixteenth century, says that on St. Peter's Day, which is the twenty-ninth of June,
the Scotch ran about at night with lighted torches on mountains and high grounds, "as Ceres
did when she roamed the whole earth in search of Proserpine";[531] and towards the end of the
eighteenth century the parish minister of Loudoun, a district of Ayrshire whose "bonny woods
and braes" have been sung by Burns, wrote that "the custom still remains amongst the herds
and young people to kindle fires in the high grounds in honour of Beltan. Beltan, which in
Gaelic signifies Baal, or Bel's-fire, was antiently the time of this solemnity. It is now kept
on St. Peter's day."[532]

[The Midsummer fires in Spain and the Azores; divination on Midsummer Eve in the Azores; the
Midsummer fires in Corsica and Sardinia.]

All over Spain great bonfires called lumes are still lit on Midsummer Eve. They are kept up
all night, and the children leap over them in a certain rhythmical way which is said to resemble
the ancient dances. On the coast, people at this season plunge into the sea; in the inland
districts the villagers go and roll naked in the dew of the meadows, which is supposed to be
a sovereign preservative against diseases of the skin. On this evening, too, girls who would
pry into the future put a vessel of water on the sill outside their window; and when the clocks
strike twelve, they break an egg in the water and see, or fancy they see, in the shapes assumed
by the pulp, as it blends with the liquid, the likeness of future bridegrooms, castles, coffins,
and so forth. But generally, as might perhaps have been anticipated, the obliging egg exhibits
the features of a bridegroom.[533] In the Azores, also, bonfires are lit on Midsummer Eve (St.
John's Eve), and boys jump over them for luck. On that night St. John himself is supposed to
appear in person and bless all the seas and waters, driving out the devils and demons who had
been disporting themselves in them ever since the second day of November; that is why in the
interval between the second of November and the twenty-third of June nobody will bathe in the
sea or in a hot spring. On Midsummer Eve, too, you can always see the devil, if you will go
into a garden at midnight. He is invariably found standing near a mustard-plant. His reason
for adopting this posture has not been ascertained; perhaps in the chilly air of the upper
world he is attracted by the genial warmth of the mustard. Various forms of divination are
practised by people in the Azores on Midsummer Eve. Thus a new-laid egg is broken into a glass
of water, and the shapes which it assumes foreshadow the fate of the person concerned. Again,
seven saucers are placed in a row, filled respectively with water, earth, ashes, keys, a thimble,
money, and grass, which things signify travel, death, widowhood, housekeeping, spinsterhood,
riches, and farming. A blindfolded person touches one or other of the saucers with a wand and
so discovers his or her fate. Again, three broad beans are taken; one is left in its skin,
one is half peeled, and the third is peeled outright. The three denote respectively riches,
competence, and poverty. They are hidden and searched for; and he who finds one of them knows
accordingly whether he will be rich, moderately well-off, or poor. Again, girls take slips
of paper and write the names of young men twice over on them. These they fold up and crumple
and place one set under their pillows and the other set in a saucer full of water. In the morning
they draw one slip of paper from under their pillow, and see whether one in the water has opened
out. If the names on the two slips are the same, it is the name of her future husband. Young
men do the same with girls' names. Once more, if a girl rises at sunrise, goes out into the
street, and asks the first passer-by his Christian name, that will be her husband's name.[534]
Some of these modes of divination resemble those which are or used to be practised in Scotland
at Hallowe'en.[535] In Corsica on the Eve of St. John the people set fire to the trunk of a
tree or to a whole tree, and the young men and maidens dance round the blaze, which is called
fucaraia.[536] We have seen that at Ozieri, in Sardinia, a great bonfire is kindled on St.
John's Eve, and that the young people dance round it.[537]

[The Midsummer fires in the Abruzzi; bathing on Midsummer Eve in the Abruzzi; the Midsummer
fires in Sicily; the witches at Midsummer.]

Passing to Italy, we find that the midsummer fires are still lighted on St. John's Eve in many
parts of the Abruzzi. They are commonest in the territory which was inhabited in antiquity
by the Vestini; they are rarer in the land of the ancient Marsi, and they disappear entirely
in the lower valley of the Sangro. For the most part, the fires are fed with straw and dry
grass, and are kindled in the fields near the villages or on high ground. As they blaze up,
the people dance round or over them. In leaping across the flames the boys cry out, "St. John,
preserve my thighs and legs!" Formerly it used to be common to light the bonfires also in the
towns in front of churches of St. John, and the remains of the sacred fire were carried home
by the people; but this custom has mostly fallen into disuse. However, at Celano the practice
is still kept up of taking brands and ashes from the bonfires to the houses, although the fires
are no longer kindled in front of the churches, but merely in the streets.[538] In the Abruzzi
water also is supposed to acquire certain marvellous and beneficent properties on St. John's
Night. Hence many people bathe or at least wash their faces and hands in the sea or a river
at that season, especially at the moment of sunrise. Such a bath is said to be an excellent
cure for diseases of the skin. At Castiglione a Casauria the people, after washing in the river
or in springs, gird their waists and wreath their brows with sprigs of briony in order to keep
them from aches and pains.[539] In various parts of Sicily, also, fires are kindled on Midsummer
Eve (St. John's Eve), the twenty-third of June. On the Madonie mountains, in the north of the
island, the herdsmen kindle them at intervals, so that the crests of the mountains are seen
ablaze in the darkness for many miles. About Acireale, on the east coast of the island, the
bonfires are lit by boys, who jump over them. At Chiaromonte the witches that night acquire
extraordinary powers; hence everybody then puts a broom outside of his house, because a broom
is an excellent protective against witchcraft.[540] At Orvieto the midsummer fires were specially
excepted from the prohibition directed against bonfires in general.[541]

[The Midsummer fires in Malta ]

In Malta also the people celebrate Midsummer Eve (St. John's Eve) "by kindling great fires
in the public streets, and giving their children dolls to carry in their arms on this day,
in order to make good the prophecy respecting the Baptist, Multi in nativitate ejus gaudebunt.
Days and even weeks before this festival, groups of children are seen going out into the country
fields to gather straw, twigs, and all sorts of other combustibles, which they store up for
St. John's Eve. On the night of the twenty-third of June, the day before the festival of the
Saint, great fires are kindled in the streets, squares, and market places of the towns and
villages of the Island, and as fire after fire blazes out of the darkness of that summer night,
the effect is singularly striking. These fires are sometimes kept up for hours, being continually
fed by the scores of bystanders, who take great delight in throwing amidst the flames some
old rickety piece of furniture which they consider as lumber in their houses. Lots of happy
and reckless children, and very often men, are seen merrily leaping in succession over and
through the crackling flames. At the time of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, the Grand
Master himself, soon after the Angelus, used to leave his palace, accompanied by the Grand
Prior, the Bishop, and two bailiffs, to set fire to some pitch barrels which were placed for
the occasion in the square facing the sacred Hospital. Great crowds used to assemble here in
order to assist at this ceremony. On the morning of St. John's Day those who dwell near the
coast go to bathe in the sea. As they go they gird themselves with osiers, and when they are
in the water they let the osiers float away, saying, "Let my maladies go away!" Each of the
lads binds a black stone on his head, signifying that he wishes to become as strong as the
stone. Also they make the sign of the cross on their feet and legs and jump over the fire.[547]
On Midsummer Eve the Greeks of Macedonia light fires after supper in front of their gates.
The garlands, now faded, which were hung over the doors on May Day, are taken down and cast
into the flames, after which the young folk leap over the blaze, fully persuaded that St. John's
fire will not burn them.[548] In Albania fires of dry herbage are, or used to be, lit everywhere
on St. John's Eve; young and old leap over them, for such a leap is thought to be good for
the health.[549]

[The Midsummer fires in America.]

From the Old World the midsummer fires have been carried across the Atlantic to America. In
Brazil people jump over the fires of St. John, and at this season they can take hot coals in
their mouths without burning themselves.[550] In Bolivia on the Eve of St. John it is usual
to see bonfires lighted on the hills and even in the streets of the capital La Paz. Men, women,
and children jump over the flames or the glowing embers, believing that by so doing they rid
themselves of all misfortune which may be clinging to them; they imagine, also, that such leaps
cure the sick and procure offspring for childless couples. Moreover, they burn straw, together
with some marjoram and alum, in the fold where the cattle, sheep, and goats are penned for
the night; the smoke, in their opinion, will make the animals thrive. On Midsummer Day the
Arabs of the Mnasara tribe make fires outside their tents, near their animals, on their fields,
and in their gardens. Large quantities of penny-royal are burned in these fires, and over some
of them the people leap thrice to and fro. Sometimes small fires are also kindled inside the
tents. They say that the smoke confers blessings on everything with which it comes into contact.
At Salee, on the Atlantic coast of Morocco, persons who suffer from diseased eyes rub them
with the ashes of the midsummer fire; and in Casablanca and Azemmur the people hold their faces
over the fire, because the smoke is thought to be good for the eyes. The Arab tribe Ulad Bu
Aziz, in the Dukkala province of Morocco, kindle midsummer bonfires, not for themselves and
their cattle, but only for crops and fruit; nobody likes to reap his crops before Midsummer
Day, because if he did they would lose the benefit of the blessed influence which flows from
the smoke of the bonfires. Again, the Beni Mgild, a Berber tribe of Morocco, light fires of
straw on Midsummer Eve and leap thrice over them to and fro. They let some of the smoke pass
underneath their clothes, and married women hold their breasts over the fire, in order that
their children may be strong. Moreover, they paint their eyes and lips with some black powder,
in which ashes of the bonfire are mixed. And in order that their horses may also benefit by
the fires, they dip the right forelegs of the animals in the smoke and flames or in the hot
embers, and they rub ashes on the foreheads and between the nostrils of the horses. But in
some parts of Morocco people at midsummer kindle fires of a different sort, not for the sake
of fumigation, but in order to burn up misfortune in the flames. Thus on Midsummer Eve the
Berber tribe of the Beni Mgild burn three sheaves of unthreshed wheat or barley, "one for the
children, one for the crops, and one for the animals." On the same occasion they burn the tent
of a widow who has never given birth to a child; by so doing they think to rid the village
of ill luck. It is said that at midsummer the Zemmur burn a tent, which belongs to somebody
who was killed in war during a feast; or if there is no such person in the village, the schoolmaster's
tent is burned instead. Among the Arabic-speaking Beni Ahsen it is customary for those who
live near the river Sbu to make a little hut of straw at midsummer, set it on fire, and let
it float down the river. Similarly the inhabitants of Salee burn a straw hut on the river which
flows past their town.[554]

Further it deserves to be noticed that in Northern Africa, as in Southern Europe, the midsummer
festival comprises rites concerned with water as well as with fire. For example, among the
Beni-Snous the women light a fire in an oven, throw perfumes into it, and circumambulate a
tank, which they also incense after a fashion. In many places on the coast, as in the province
of Oran and particularly in the north of Morocco, everybody goes and bathes in the sea at midsummer;
and in many towns of the interior, such as Fez, Mequinez, and especially Merrakech, people
throw water over each other on this day; and where water is scarce, earth is used instead,
according to the Mohammedan principle which permits ablutions to be performed with earth or
sand when water cannot be spared for the purpose.[555] People of the Andjra district in Morocco
not only bathe themselves in the sea or in rivers at midsummer, they also bathe their animals,
their horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, sheep, and goats; for they think that on that day water
possesses a blessed virtue (baraka), which removes sickness and misfortune. In Aglu, again,
men, women, and children bathe in the sea or springs or rivers at midsummer, alleging that
by so doing they protect themselves against disease for the whole year. There are, indeed,
independent grounds for thinking that the Arabs enjoyed the advantage of a comparatively well-regulated
solar year before the prophet of God saddled them with the absurdity and inconvenience of a
purely lunar calendar.[557] Be that as it may, it is notable that some Mohammedan people of
North Africa kindle fires and bathe in water at the movable New Year of their lunar calendar
instead of at the fixed Midsummer of the solar year; while others again practise these observances
at both seasons. New Year's Day, on which the rites are celebrated, is called Ashur; it is
the tenth day of Moharram, the first month of the Mohammedan calendar. On that day bonfires
are kindled in Tunis and also at Merrakech and among some tribes of the neighbourhood.[558]
At Demnat, in the Great Atlas mountains, people kindle a large bonfire on New Year's Eve and
leap to and fro over the flames, uttering words which imply that by these leaps they think
to purify themselves from all kinds of evil. At Aglu, in the province of Sus, the fire is lighted
at three different points by an unmarried girl, and when it has died down the young men leap
over the glowing embers, saying, "We shook on you, O Lady Ashur, fleas, and lice, and the illnesses
of the heart, as also those of the bones; we shall pass through you again next year and the
following years with safety and health." Both at Aglu and Glawi, in the Great Atlas, smaller
fires are also kindled, over which the animals are driven. At Demnat girls who wish to marry
wash themselves in water which has been boiled over the New Year fire; and in Dukkala people
use the ashes of that fire to rub sore eyes with. New Year fires appear to be commonly kindled
among the Berbers who inhabit the western portion of the Great Atlas, and also among the Arabic-speaking
tribes of the plains; but Dr. Westermarck found no traces of such fires among the Arabic-speaking
mountaineers of Northern Morocco and the Berbers of the Rif province. Further, it should be
observed that water ceremonies like those which are practised at Midsummer are very commonly
observed in Morocco at the New Year, that is, on the tenth day of the first month. On the morning
of that day (Ashur) all water or, according to some people, only spring water is endowed with
a magical virtue (baraka), especially before sunrise. Hence at that time the people bathe and
pour water over each other; in some places they also sprinkle their animals, tents, or rooms.
In Dukkala some of the New Year water is preserved at home till New Year's Day (Ashur) of next
year; some of it is kept to be used as medicine, some of it is poured on the place where the
corn is threshed, and some is used to water the money which is to be buried in the ground;
for the people think that the earth-spirits will not be able to steal the buried treasures
which have thus been sanctified with the holy water.[559]

[The Midsummer festival in Morocco seems to be of Berber origin.]

Thus the rites of fire and water which are observed in Morocco at Midsummer and New Year appear
to be identical in character and intention, and it seems certain that the duplication of the
rites is due to a conflict between two calendars, namely the old Julian calendar of the Romans,
which was based on the sun, and the newer Mohammedan calendar of the Arabs, which is based
on the moon. For not only was the Julian calendar in use throughout the whole of Northern Africa
under the Roman Empire; to this day it is everywhere employed among Mohammedans for the regulation
of agriculture and all the affairs of daily life; its practical convenience has made it indispensable,
and the lunar calendar of orthodox Mohammedanism is scarcely used except for purposes of chronology.
Even the old Latin names of the months are known and employed, in slightly disguised forms,
throughout the whole Moslem world; and little calendars of the Julian year circulate in manuscript
among Mohammedans, permitting them to combine the practical advantages of pagan science with
a nominal adherence to orthodox absurdity.[560] Thus the heathen origin of the midsummer festival
is too palpable to escape the attention of good Mohammedans, who accordingly frown upon the
midsummer bonfires as pagan superstitions, precisely as similar observances in Europe have
often been denounced by orthodox Christianity. Indeed, many religious people in Morocco entirely
disapprove of the whole of the midsummer ceremonies, maintaining that they are all bad; and
a conscientious schoolmaster will even refuse his pupils a holiday at midsummer, though the
boys sometimes offer him a bribe if he will sacrifice his scruples to his avarice.[561] As
the midsummer customs appear to flourish among all the Berbers of Morocco but to be unknown
among the pure Arabs who have not been affected by Berber influence, it seems reasonable to
infer with Dr. Westermarck that the midsummer festival has belonged from time immemorial to
the Berber race, and that so far as it is now observed by the Arabs of Morocco, it has been
learned by them from the Berbers, the old indigenous inhabitants of the country. Dr. Westermarck
may also be right in holding that, in spite of the close similarity which obtains between the
midsummer festival of Europe and the midsummer festival of North Africa, the latter is not
a copy of the former, but that both have been handed down independently from a time beyond
the purview of history, when such ceremonies were common to the Mediterranean race.[562]

§ 5. The Autumn Fires

[Festivals of fire in August; Russian feast of Florus and Laurus on August 18th; "Living fire"
made by the friction of wood.]

In the months which elapse between midsummer and the setting in of winter the European festivals
of fire appear to be few and unimportant. On the evening of the first day of August, which
is the Festival of the Cross, bonfires are commonly lit in Macedonia and boys jump over them,
shouting, "Dig up! bury!" but whom or what they wish to dig up or bury they do not know.[563]
The Russians hold the feast of two martyrs, Florus and Laurus, on the eighteenth day of August,
Old Style. "On this day the Russians lead their horses round the church of their village, beside
which on the foregoing evening they dig a hole with two mouths. Each horse has a bridle made
of the bark of the linden-tree. The horses go through this hole one after the other, opposite
to one of the mouths of which the priest stands with a sprinkler in his hand, with which he
sprinkles them. As soon as the horses have passed by their bridles are taken off, and they
are made to go between two fires that they kindle, called by the Russians Givoy Agon, that
is to say, living fires, of which I shall give an account. I shall before remark, that the
Russian peasantry throw the bridles of their horses into one of these fires to be consumed.
This is the manner of their lighting these givoy agon, or living fires. Some men hold the ends
of a stick made of the plane-tree, very dry, and about a fathom long. This stick they hold
firmly over one of birch, perfectly dry, and rub with violence and quickly against the former;
the birch, which is somewhat softer than the plane, in a short time inflames, and serves them
to light both the fires I have described."[564]

[Feast of the Nativity of the Virgin on the eighth of September at Capri and Naples.]

The Feast of the Nativity of the Virgin on the eighth day of September is celebrated at Naples
and Capri with fireworks, bonfires, and assassinations. On this subject my friend Professor
A. E. Housman, who witnessed the celebration in different years at both places, has kindly
furnished me with the following particulars: "In 1906 I was in the island of Capri on September
the eighth, the feast of the Nativity of the Virgin. The anniversary was duly solemnised by
fire-works at nine or ten in the evening, which I suppose were municipal; but just after sundown
the boys outside the villages were making small fires of brushwood on waste bits of ground
by the wayside. Very pretty it looked, with the flames blowing about in the twilight; but what
took my attention was the listlessness of the boys and their lack of interest in the proceeding.
A single lad, the youngest, would be raking the fire together and keeping it alight, but the
rest stood lounging about and looking in every other direction, with the air of discharging
mechanically a traditional office from which all zest had evaporated." "The pious orgy at Naples
on September the eighth went through the following phases when I witnessed it in 1897. It began
at eight in the evening with an illumination of the façade of Santa Maria Piedigrotta and with
the whole population walking about blowing penny trumpets. After four hours of this I went
to bed at midnight, and was lulled to sleep by barrel-organs, which supersede the trumpets
about that hour. At four in the morning I was waked by detonations as if the British fleet
were bombarding the city, caused, I was afterwards told, by dynamite rockets. The only step
possible beyond this is assassination, which accordingly takes place about peep of day: I forget
now the number of the slain, but I think the average is eight or ten, and I know that in honour
of my presence they murdered a few more than usual."

[The Feast of the Nativity of the Virgin may have replaced a pagan festival; the coincidence
of the Midsummer festival with the summer solstice implies that the founders of the festival
regulated their calendar by observation of the sun.]

It is no doubt possible that these illuminations and fireworks, like the assassinations, are
merely the natural and spontaneous expressions of that overflowing joy with which the thought
of the birth of the Virgin must fill every pious heart; but when we remember how often the
Church has skilfully decanted the new wine of Christianity into the old bottles of heathendom,
we may be allowed to conjecture that the ecclesiastical authorities adroitly timed the Nativity
of the Virgin so as to coincide with an old pagan festival of that day, in which fire, noise,
and uproar, if not broken heads and bloodshed, were conspicuous features. The penny trumpets
blown on this occasion recall the like melodious instruments which figure so largely in the
celebration of Befana (the Eve of Epiphany) at Rome.[565]

§ 6. Avoid the road, children, children."[576]

[Dancing with the fairies at Hallowe'en.]

In Cardiganshire on November Eve a bogie sits on every stile.[577] On that night in Ireland
all the fairy hills are thrown wide open and the fairies swarm forth; any man who is bold enough
may then peep into the open green hills and see the treasures hidden in them. Worse than that,
the cave of Cruachan in Connaught, known as "the Hell-gate of Ireland," is unbarred on Samhain
Eve or Hallowe'en, and a host of horrible fiends and goblins used to rush forth, particularly
a flock of copper-red birds, which blighted crops and killed animals by their poisonous breath.[578]
The Scotch Highlanders have a special name Samhanach (derived from Samhain, "All-hallows")
for the dreadful bogies that go about that night stealing babies and committing other atrocities.[579]
And though the fairies are a kindlier folk, it is dangerous to see even them at their revels
on Hallowe'en. A melancholy case of this sort is reported from the Ferintosh district of the
Highlands, though others say that it happened at the Slope of Big Stones in Harris. Two young
men were coming home after nightfall on Hallowe'en, each with a jar of whisky on his back,
when they saw, as they thought, a house all lit up by the roadside, from which proceeded the
sounds of music and dancing. In reality it was not a house at all but a fairy knoll, and it
was the fairies who were jigging it about there so merrily. But one of the young men was deceived
and stepping into the house joined in the dance, without even stopping to put down the jar
of whisky. His companion was wiser; he had a shrewd suspicion that the place was not what it
seemed, and on entering he took the precaution of sticking a needle in the door. That disarmed
the power of the fairies, and he got away safely. Well, that day twelve months he came back
to the spot and what should he see but his poor friend still dancing away with the jar of whisky
on his back? A weary man was he, as you may well believe, but he begged to be allowed to finish
the reel which he was in the act of executing, and when they took him out into the open air,
there was nothing of him left but skin and bones.[580] Again, the wicked fairies are apt to
carry off men's wives with them to fairyland; but the lost spouses can be recovered within
a year and a day when the procession of the fairies is defiling past on Hallowe'en, always
provided that the mortals did not partake of elfin food while they were in elfinland.[581]

[Guleesh and the revels of the fairies at Hallowe'en.]

Sometimes valuable information may be obtained from the fairies on Hallowe'en. There was a
young man named Guleesh in the County of Mayo. Near his house was a rath or old fort with a
fine grass bank running round it. One Hallowe'en, when the darkness was falling, Guleesh went
to the rath and stood on a gray old flag. The night was calm and still; there was not a breath
of wind stirring, nor a sound to be heard except the hum of the insects flitting past, or the
whistle of the plovers, or the hoarse scream of the wild geese as they winged their way far
overhead. Above the white fog the moon rose like a knob of fire in the east, and a thousand
thousand stars were twinkling in the sky. There was a little frost in the air, the grass was
white and crisp and crackled under foot. Guleesh expected to see the fairies, but they did
not come. Hour after hour wore away, and he was just bethinking him of going home to bed, when
his ear caught a sound far off coming towards him, and he knew what it was in a moment. The
sound grew louder and louder; at first it was like the beating of waves on a stony shore, then
it was like the roar of a waterfall, at last it was like a mighty rushing wind in the tops
of the trees, then the storm burst upon the rath, and sure enough the fairies were in it. The
rout went by so suddenly that Guleesh lost his breath; but he came to himself and listened.
The fairies were now gathered within the grassy bank of the rath, and a fine uproar they made.
But Guleesh listened with all his ears, and he heard one fairy saying to another that a magic
herb grew by Guleesh's own door, and that Guleesh had nothing to do but pluck it and boil it
and give it to his sweetheart, the daughter of the King of France, and she would be well, for
just then she was lying very ill. Guleesh took the hint, and everything went as the fairy had
said. And he married the daughter of the King of France; and they had never a cark nor a care,
a sickness nor a sorrow, a mishap nor a misfortune to the day of their death.[582]

[Divination resorted to in Celtic countries at Hallowe'en.]

In all Celtic countries Hallowe'en seems to have been the great season of the year for prying
into the future; all kinds of divination were put in practice that night. We read that Dathi,
a king of Ireland in the fifth century, happening to be at the Druids' Hill (Cnoc-nan-druad)
in the county of Sligo one Hallowe'en, ordered his druid to forecast for him the future from
that day till the next Hallowe'en should come round. The druid passed the night on the top
of the hill, and next morning made a prediction to the king which came true.[583] In Wales
Hallowe'en was the weirdest of all the Teir Nos Ysbrydion, or Three Spirit Nights, when the
wind, "blowing over the feet of the corpses," bore sighs to the houses of those who were to
die within the year. People thought that if on that night they went out to a cross-road and
listened to the wind, they would learn all the most important things that would befall them
during the next twelve months.[584] In Wales, too, not so long ago women used to congregate
in the parish churches on the night of Hallowe'en and read their fate from the flame of the
candle which each of them held in her hand; also they heard the names or saw the coffins of
the parishioners who would die within the year, and many were the sad scenes to which these
gloomy visions gave rise.[585] And in the Highlands of Scotland anybody who pleased could hear
proclaimed aloud the names of parishioners doomed to perish within the next twelve months,
if he would only take a three-legged stool and go and sit on it at three cross-roads, while
the church clock was striking twelve at midnight on Hallowe'en. Travelling in the parish of
Moulin, near Pitlochrie, in the year 1772, the Englishman Thomas Pennant writes that "Hallow
Eve is also kept sacred: as soon as it is dark, a person sets fire to a bush of broom fastened
round a pole, and, attended with a crowd, runs about the village. He then flings it down, heaps
great quantity of combustible matters on it, and makes a great bonfire. A whole tract is thus
illuminated at the same time, and makes a fine appearance."[588] The custom has been described
more fully by a Scotchman of the eighteenth century, John Ramsay of Ochtertyre. On the evening
of Hallowe'en "the young people of every hamlet assembled upon some eminence near the houses.
There they made a bonfire of ferns or other fuel, cut the same day, which from the feast was
called Samh-nag or Savnag, a fire of rest and pleasure. Around it was placed a circle of stones,
one for each person of the families to whom they belonged. And when it grew dark the bonfire
was kindled, at which a loud shout was set up. Then each person taking a torch of ferns or
sticks in his hand, ran round the fire exulting; and sometimes they went into the adjacent
fields, where, if there was another company, they visited the bonfire, taunting the others
if inferior in any respect to themselves. After the fire was burned out they returned home,
where a feast was prepared, and the remainder of the evening was spent in mirth and diversions
of various kinds. Next morning they repaired betimes to the bonfire, where the situation of
the stones was examined with much attention. If any of them were misplaced, or if the print
of a foot could be discerned near any particular stone, it was imagined that the person for
whom it was set would not live out the year. Of late years this is less attended to, but about
the beginning of the present century it was regarded as a sure prediction. Faggots of heath,
broom, and the dressings of flax were kindled and carried on poles by men, who ran with them
round the villages, attended by a crowd. As soon as one faggot was burnt out, a fresh one was
lighted and fastened to the pole. Numbers of these blazing faggots were often carried about
together, and when the night happened to be dark, they formed a splendid illumination.[591]

[Hallowe'en fires on Loch Tay; Hallowe'en fires at Balquhidder.]

Nor did the Hallowe'en fires die out in Perthshire with the end of the eighteenth century.
Journeying from Dunkeld to Aberfeldy on Hallowe'en in the first half of the nineteenth century,
Sheriff Barclay counted thirty fires blazing on the hill tops, and saw the figures of the people
dancing like phantoms round the flames.[592] Again, "in 1860, I was residing near the head
of Loch Tay during the season of the Hallowe'en feast. For several days before Hallowe'en,
boys and youths collected wood and conveyed it to the most prominent places on the hill sides
in their neighbourhood. Some of the heaps were as large as a corn-stack or hayrick. After dark
on Hallowe'en, these heaps were kindled, and for several hours both sides of Loch Tay were
illuminated as far as the eye could see. In some villages the lads collected the peats in a
cart, some of them drawing it along and the others receiving the peats and loading them on
the cart. Each one took a share in this part of the ceremony, giving a kick first with the
right foot and then with the left; and each vied with the other who should scatter the most.
After that some of them still continued to run through the scattered ashes and to pelt each
other with the half-burned peats. At each farm a spot as high as possible, not too near the
steading, was chosen for the fire, and the proceedings were much the same as at the village
bonfire. The lads of one farm, when their own fire was burned down and the ashes scattered,
sometimes went to a neighbouring fire and helped to kick the ashes about.[595] Referring to
this part of Scotland, a writer at the end of the eighteenth century observes that "the Hallow-even
fire, another relict of druidism, was kindled in Buchan. Various magic ceremonies were then
celebrated to counteract the influence of witches and demons, and to prognosticate to the young
their success or disappointment in the matrimonial lottery. These being devoutly finished,
the hallow fire was kindled, and guarded by the male part of the family. Societies were formed,
either by pique or humour, to scatter certain fires, and the attack and defence were often
conducted with art and with fury."[596] Down to about the middle of the nineteenth century
"the Braemar Highlanders made the circuit of their fields with lighted torches at Hallowe'en
to ensure their fertility in the coming year. At that date the custom was as follows: Every
member of the family (in those days households were larger than they are now) was provided
with a bundle of fir 'can'les' with which to go the round. The father and mother stood at the
hearth and lit the splints in the peat fire, which they passed to the children and servants,
who trooped out one after the other, and proceeded to tread the bounds of their little property,
going slowly round at equal distances apart, and invariably with the sun. To go 'withershins'
seems to have been reserved for cursing and excommunication. When the fields had thus been
circumambulated the remaining spills were thrown together in a heap and allowed to burn out."[597]

[Divination at Hallow-e'en in the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland; the stolen kail; sowing
hemp seed; the winnowing basket; the wet shirt; the thrown shoe.]

In the Highlands of Scotland, as the evening of Hallowe'en wore on, young people gathered in
one of the houses and resorted to an almost endless variety of games, or rather forms of divination,
for the purpose of ascertaining the future fate of each member of the company. Were they to
marry or remain single, was the marriage to take place that year or never, who was to be married
first, what sort of husband or wife she or he was to get, the name, the trade, the colour of
the hair, the amount of property of the future spouse--these were questions that were eagerly
canvassed and the answers to them furnished never-failing entertainment.[598] Nor were these
modes of divination at Hallowe'en confined to the Highlands, where the bonfires were kindled;
they were practised with equal faith and in practically the same forms in the Lowlands, as
we learn, for example, from Burns's poem Hallowe'en, which describes the auguries drawn from
a variety of omens by the Ayrshire peasantry. These Lowlanders of Saxon descent may well have
inherited the rites from the Celts who preceded them in the possession of the south country.
A common practice at Hallowe'en was to go out stealthily to a neighbour's kailyard and there,
with shut eyes, to pull up the first kail stock that came to hand. It was necessary that the
plants should be stolen without the knowledge or consent of their owner; otherwise they were
quite useless for the purpose of divination. Strictly speaking, too, the neighbour upon whose
garden the raid was made should be unmarried, whether a bachelor or a spinster. The stolen
kail was taken home and examined, and according to its height, shape, and features would be
the height, shape, and features of the future husband or wife. The taste of the custock, that
is, the heart of the stem, was an infallible indication of his or her temper; and a clod of
earth adhering to the root signified, in proportion to its size, the amount of property which
he or she would bring to the common stock. Then the kail-stock or runt, as it was called in
Ayrshire, was placed over the lintel of the door; and the baptismal name of the young man or
woman who first entered the door after the kail was in position would be the baptismal name
of the husband or wife.[599] Again, young women sowed hemp seed over nine ridges of ploughed
land, saying, "I sow hemp seed, and he who is to be my husband, let him come and harrow it."
On looking back over her left shoulder the girl would see the figure of her future mate behind
her in the darkness. In the north-east of Scotland lint seed was used instead of hemp seed
and answered the purpose quite as well.[600] Again, a mode of ascertaining your future husband
or wife was this. Take a clue of blue yarn and go to a lime-kiln. Throw the clue into the kiln,
but keep one end of the thread in your hand and wind it on to another clue. As you come near
the end somebody or something will hold the other end tight in the kiln. Then you call out,
"Who holds?" giving the thread at the same time a gentle pull. Some one or something will thereupon
pull the other end of the thread, and a voice will mention the name of your future husband
or wife.[601] Another way is this. Go to the barn alone and secretly. Be sure to open both
doors and if possible take them off their hinges; for if the being who is about to appear should
catch you in the barn and clap the doors to on you, he or she might do you a mischief. Having
done this, take the sieve or winnowing-basket, which in Lowland Scotch is called a wecht or
waicht, and go through the action of winnowing corn. Repeat it thrice, and at the third time
the apparition of your future husband or wife will pass through the barn, entering at the windy
door and passing out at the other.[602] Or this. Go to a southward running stream, where the
lands of three lairds meet, or to a ford where the dead and living have crossed. Dip the left
sleeve of your shirt in the water. Then go home, take off the shirt, hang it up before a fire
to dry, and go to bed, taking care that the bed stands so that you can see your shirt hanging
before the fire. Keep awake, and at midnight you will see the form of your future spouse come
into the room and turn the other side of the sleeve to the fire to dry it.[603] A Highland
form of divination at Hallowe'en is to take a shoe by the tip and throw it over the house,
then observe the direction in which the toe points as it lies on the ground on the other side;
for in that direction you are destined to go before long. If the shoe should fall sole uppermost,
it is very unlucky for you.[604]

[The white of eggs in water; the names on the chimney piece; the nuts in the fire; the milk
and meal; the apples in the water; the three plates.]

These ways of prying into the future are practised outside of the house; others are observed
in the kitchen or the parlour before the cheerful blaze of the fire. Thus the white of eggs,
dropped in a glass of pure water, indicates by certain marks how many children a person will
have. The impatience and clamour of the children, eager to ascertain the exact number of their
future progeny, often induced the housewife to perform this ceremony for them by daylight;
and the kindly mother, standing with her face to the window, dropping the white of an egg into
a crystal glass of clean water, and surrounded by a group of children intently watching her
proceedings, made up a pretty picture.[605] When the fun of the evening had fairly commenced,
the names of eligible or likely matches were written on the chimney-piece, and the young man
who wished to try his fortune was led up blindfolded to the list. Whatever name he put his
finger on would prove that of his future wife.[606] Again, two nuts, representing a lad and
a lass whose names were announced to the company, were put side by side in the fire. If they
burned quietly together, the pair would be man and wife, and from the length of time they burned
and the brightness of the flame the length and happiness of the married life of the two were
augured. But if instead of burning together one of the nuts leaped away from the other, then
there would be no marriage, and the blame would rest with the person whose nut had thus started
away by itself.[607] Again, a dish of milk and meal (in Gaelic fuarag, in Lowland Scotch crowdie)
or of beat potatoes was made and a ring was hidden in it. Spoons were served out to the company,
who supped the contents of the dish hastily with them, and the one who got the ring would be
the first to be married.[608] Again, apples and a silver sixpence were put in a tub of water;
the apples naturally floated on the top and the sixpence sank to the bottom. Whoever could
lift an apple or the sixpence from the water with his mouth, without using his teeth, was counted
very lucky and got the prize to himself.[609] Again, three plates or basins were placed on
the hearth. One was filled with clean water, another with dirty water, and the third was empty.
The enquirer was blindfolded, knelt in front of the hearth, and groped about till he put his
finger in one of them. If he lighted on the plate with the clean water, he would wed a maid;
if on the plate with the dirty water, he would marry a widow; and if on the empty plate, he
would remain a bachelor. For a girl the answer of the oracle was analogous; she would marry
a bachelor, a widower, or nobody according to the plate into which she chanced to dip her finger.
But to make sure, the operation had to be repeated thrice, the position of the plates being
changed each time. If the enquirer put his or her finger into the same plate thrice or even
twice, it was quite conclusive.[610]

[The sliced apple; the white of egg in water; the salt cake or salt herring.]

These forms of divination in the house were practised by the company in a body; but the following
had to be performed by the person alone. You took an apple and stood with it in your hand in
front of a looking-glass. Then you sliced the apple, stuck each slice on the point of the knife,
and held it over your left shoulder, while you looked into the glass and combed your hair.
The spectre of your future husband would then appear in the mirror stretching forth his hand
to take the slices of the apple over your shoulder. Some say that the number of slices should
be nine, that you should eat the first eight yourself, and only throw the ninth over your left
shoulder for your husband; also that at each slice you should say, "In the name of the Father
and the Son."[611] Again, take an egg, prick it with a pin, and let the white drop into a wine-glass
nearly full of water. Take some of this in your mouth and go out for a walk. The first name
you hear called out aloud will be that of your future husband or wife. An old woman told a
lady that she had tried this mode of divination in her youth, that the name of Archibald "came
up as it were from the very ground," and that Archibald sure enough was the name of her husband.[612]
In South Uist and Eriskay, two of the outer Hebrides, a salt cake called Bonnach Salainn is
eaten at Hallowe'en to induce dreams that will reveal the future. It is baked of common meal
with a great deal of salt. After eating it you may not drink water nor utter a word, not even
to say your prayers.

[Divination as to love and marriage at Hallowe'en in Wales.]

In Wales, as in Scotland, Hallowe'en was also the great season for forecasting the future in
respect of love and marriage, and some of the forms of divination employed for this purpose
resembled those which were in use among the Scotch peasantry. Two girls, for example, would
make a little ladder of yarn, without breaking it from the ball, and having done so they would
throw it out of the window. Then one of the girls, holding the ball in her hand, would wind
the yarn back, repeating a rhyme in Welsh. This she did thrice, and as she wound the yarn she
would see her future husband climbing up the little ladder. Again, three bowls or basins were
placed on a table. One of them contained clean water, one dirty water, and one was empty. The
girls of the household, and sometimes the boys too, then eagerly tried their fortunes. They
were blindfolded, led up to the table, and dipped their hands into a bowl. If they happened
to dip into the clean water, they would marry maidens or bachelors; if into the dirty water,
they would be widowers or widows; if into the empty bowl, they would live unmarried. Again,
if a girl, walking backwards, would place a knife among the leeks on Hallowe'en, she would
see her future husband come and pick up the knife and throw it into the middle of the garden.[619]

[Divination at Hallowe'en in Ireland.]

In Ireland the Hallowe'en bonfires would seem to have died out, but the Hallowe'en divination
has survived. Writing towards the end of the eighteenth century, General Vallancey tells us
that on Hallowe'en or the vigil of Saman, as he calls it, "the peasants in Ireland assemble
with sticks and clubs (the emblems of laceration) going from house to house, collecting money,
bread-cake, butter, cheese, eggs, etc., etc., for the feast, repeating verses in honour of
the solemnity, demanding preparations for the festival, in the name of St. Columb Kill, desiring
them to lay aside the fatted calf, and to bring forth the black sheep. The good women are employed
in making the griddle cake and candles; these last are sent from house to house in the vicinity,
and are lighted up on the (Saman) next day, before which they pray, or are supposed to pray,
for the departed souls of the donor. Every house abounds in the best viands they can afford:
apples and nuts are devoured in abundance: the nut-shells are burnt, and from the ashes many
strange things are foretold: cabbages are torn up by the root: hemp seed is sown by the maidens,
and they believe, that if they look back, they will see the apparition of the man intended
for their future spouse: they hang a smock before the fire, on the close of the feast, and
sit up all night, concealed in a corner of the room, convinced that his apparition will come
down the chimney and turn the smock: they throw a ball of yarn out of the window, and wind
it on the reel within, convinced, that if they repeat the Pater Noster backwards, and look
at the ball of yarn without, they will then also see his sith or apparition: they dip for apples
in a tub of water, and endeavour to bring one up in the mouth: they suspend a cord with a cross-stick,
with apples at one point, and candles lighted at the other, and endeavour to catch the apple,
while it is in a circular motion, in the mouth. These, and many other superstitious ceremonies,
the remains of Druidism, are observed on this holiday, which will never be eradicated, while
the name of Saman is permitted to remain."[620]

[Divination at Hallow-e'en in Queen's County; divination at Hallow-e'en in County Leitrim;
divination at Hallowe'en in County Roscommon.]

In Queen's County, Ireland, down to the latter part of the nineteenth century children practised
various of these rites of divination on Hallowe'en. Girls went out into the garden blindfold
and pulled up cabbages: if the cabbage was well grown, the girl would have a handsome husband,
but if it had a crooked stalk, the future spouse would be a stingy old man. Nuts, again, were
placed in pairs on the bar of the fire, and from their behaviour omens were drawn of the fate
in love and marriage of the couple whom they represented. Lead, also, was melted and allowed
to drop into a tub of cold water, and from the shapes which it assumed in the water predictions
were made to the children of their future destiny. Again, apples were bobbed for in a tub of
water and brought up with the teeth; or a stick was hung from a hook with an apple at one end
and a candle at the other, and the stick being made to revolve you made a bite at the apple
and sometimes got a mouthful of candle instead.[621] In County Leitrim, also, down to near
the end of the nineteenth century various forms of divination were practised at Hallowe'en.
Girls ascertained the character of their future husbands by the help of cabbages just as in
Queen's County. Again, if a girl found a branch of a briar-thorn which had bent over and grown
into the ground so as to form a loop, she would creep through the loop thrice late in the evening
in the devil's name, then cut the briar and put it under her pillow, all without speaking a
word. Then she would lay her head on the pillow and dream of the man she was to marry. Boys,
also, would dream in like manner of love and marriage at Hallowe'en, if only they would gather
ten leaves of ivy without speaking, throw away one, and put the other nine under their pillow.
Again, divination was practised by means of a cake called barm-breac, in which a nut and a
ring were baked. Whoever got the ring would be married first; whoever got the nut would marry
a widow or a widower; but if the nut were an empty shell, he or she would remain unwed. Again,
a girl would take a clue of worsted, go to a lime kiln in the gloaming, and throw the clew
into the kiln in the devil's name, while she held fast the other end of the thread. Then she
would rewind the thread and ask, "Who holds my clue?" and the name of her future husband would
come up from the depth of the kiln. Another way was to take a rake, go to a rick and walk round
it nine times, saying, "I rake this rick in the devil's name." At the ninth time the wraith
of your destined partner for life would come and take the rake out of your hand. Once more,
before the company separated for the night, they would rake the ashes smooth on the hearth,
and search them next morning for tracks, from which they judged whether anybody should come
to the house, or leave it, or die in it before another year was out.[622] In County Roscommon,
which borders on County Leitrim, a cake is made in nearly every house on Hallowe'en, and a
ring, a coin, a sloe, and a chip of wood are put into it. Whoever gets the coin will be rich;
whoever gets the ring will be married first; whoever gets the chip of wood, which stands for
a coffin, will die first; and whoever gets the sloe will live longest, because the fairies
blight the sloes in the hedges on Hallowe'en, so that the sloe in the cake will be the last
of the year. Again, on the same mystic evening girls take nine grains of oats in their mouths,
and going out without speaking walk about till they hear a man's name pronounced; it will be
the name of their future husband. Bands of young men perambulated the island by night, and
at the door of every dwelling-house they struck up a Manx rhyme, beginning

"Noght oie howney hop-dy-naw,"

that is to say, "This is Hollantide Eve." For Hollantide is the Manx way of expressing the
old English All hallowen tide, that is, All Saints' Day, the first of November. But as the
people reckon this festival according to the Old Style, Hollantide in the Isle of Man is our
twelfth of November. The native Manx name for the day is Sauin or Laa Houney. Potatoes, parsnips
and fish, pounded up together and mixed with butter, formed the proper evening meal (mrastyr)
on Hallowe'en in the Isle of Man.[624] Here, too, as in Scotland forms of divination are practised
by some people on this important evening. For example, the housewife fills a thimble full of
salt for each member of the family and each guest; the contents of the thimblefuls are emptied
out in as many neat little piles on a plate, and left there over night. Next morning the piles
are examined, and if any of them has fallen down, he or she whom it represents will die within
the year. Again, the women carefully sweep out the ashes from under the fireplace and flatten
them down neatly on the open hearth. If they find next morning a footprint turned towards the
door, it signifies a death in the family within the year; but if the footprint is turned in
the opposite direction, it bodes a marriage. Again, divination by eavesdropping is practised
in the Isle of Man in much the same way as in Scotland. You go out with your mouth full of
water and your hands full of salt and listen at a neighbour's door, and the first name you
hear will be the name of your husband. Again, Manx maids bandage their eyes and grope about
the room till they dip their hands in vessels full of clean or dirty water, and so on; and
from the thing they touch they draw corresponding omens. But some people in the Isle of Man
observe these auguries, not on Hallowe'en or Hollantide Eve, as they call it, which was the
old Manx New Year's Eve, but on the modern New Year's Eve, that is, on the thirty-first of
December. The change no doubt marks a transition from the ancient to the modern mode of dating
the beginning of the year.[625]

[Hallowe'en fires and divination in Lancashire; candles lighted to keep off the witches; divination
at Hallowe'en in Northumberland; Hallowe'en fires in France.]

In Lancashire, also, some traces of the old Celtic celebration of Hallowe'en have been reported
in modern times. It is said that "fires are still lighted in Lancashire, on Hallowe'en, under
the name of Beltains or Teanlas; and even such cakes as the Jews are said to have made in honour
of the Queen of Heaven, are yet to be found at this season amongst the inhabitants of the banks
of the Ribble.... Both the fires and the cakes, however, are now connected with superstitious
notions respecting Purgatory, etc."[626] On Hallowe'en, too, the Lancashire maiden "strews
the ashes which are to take the form of one or more letters of her lover's name; she throws
hemp-seed over her shoulder and timidly glances to see who follows her."[627] Again, witches
in Lancashire used to gather on Hallowe'en at the Malkin Tower, a ruined and desolate farm-house
in the forest of Pendle. They assembled for no good purpose; but you could keep the infernal
rout at bay by carrying a lighted candle about the fells from eleven to twelve o'clock at night.
The witches tried to blow out the candle, and if they succeeded, so much the worse for you;
but if the flame burned steadily till the clocks had struck midnight, you were safe. Some people
performed the ceremony by deputy; and parties went about from house to house in the evening
collecting candles, one for each inmate, and offering their services to late or leet the witches,
as the phrase ran. This custom was practised at Longridge Fell in the early part of the nineteenth
century.[628] In Northumberland on Hallowe'en omens of marriage were drawn from nuts thrown
into the fire; and the sports of ducking for apples and biting at a revolving apple and lighted
candle were also practised on that evening.[629] The equivalent of the Hallowe'en bonfires
is reported also from France. We are told that in the department of Deux-Sèvres, which forms
part of the old province of Poitou, young people used to assemble in the fields on All Saints'
Day (the first of November) and kindle great fires of ferns, thorns, leaves, and stubble, at
which they roasted chestnuts. They also danced round the fires and indulged in noisy pastimes.[630]

§ 7. In this way the savage philosopher, to whose meditations on the nature of things we owe
many ancient customs and ceremonies, might easily imagine that he helped the labouring sun
to relight his dying lamp, or at all events to blow up the flame into a brighter blaze. Certain
it is that the winter solstice, which the ancients erroneously assigned to the twenty-fifth
of December, was celebrated in antiquity as the Birthday of the Sun, and that festal lights
or fires were kindled on this joyful occasion.

[The Yule log in Germany; the Yule log in Switzerland.]

Among the Germans the custom of the Yule log is known to have been observed in the eleventh
century; for in the year 1184 the parish priest of Ahlen, in Münsterland, spoke of "bringing
a tree to kindle the festal fire at the Lord's Nativity."[634] Down to about the middle of
the nineteenth century the old rite was kept up in some parts of central Germany, as we learn
from an account of it given by a contemporary writer. After mentioning the custom of feeding
the cattle and shaking the fruit-trees on Christmas night, to make them bear fruit, he goes
on as follows: "Other customs pointing back to the far-off times of heathendom may still be
met with among the old-fashioned peasants of the mountain regions. Such is in the valleys of
the Sieg and Lahn the practice of laying a new log as a foundation of the hearth. A heavy block
of oak-wood, generally a stump grubbed up from the ground, is fitted either into the floor
of the hearth, or into a niche made for the purpose in the wall under the hook on which the
kettle hangs. When the fire on the hearth glows, this block of wood glows too, but it is so
placed that it is hardly reduced to ashes within a year. When the new foundation is laid, the
remains of the old block are carefully taken out, ground to powder, and strewed over the fields
during the Twelve Nights. In the Jura mountains of the canton of Bern, while the log is burning
on the hearth the people sing a blessing over it as follows:--

"May the log burn! May all good come in! May the women have children And the sheep lambs! White
bread for every one And the vat full of wine!"

The embers of the Yule log were kept carefully, for they were believed to be a protection against
lightning.[640]

[The Yule log in Belgium.]

"The Christmas fires, which were formerly lit everywhere in the Low Countries, have fallen
into disuse. But in Flanders a great log of wood, called the kersavondblok and usually cut
from the roots of a fir or a beech, is still put on the fire; all the lights in the house are
extinguished, and the whole family gathers round the log to spend part of the night in singing,
in telling stories, especially about ghosts, were-wolves, and so on, and also in drinking gin.
At Grammont and in the neighbourhood of that town, where the Yule log is called Kersmismot,
it is customary to set fire to the remainder of the gin at the moment when the log is reduced
to ashes. Elsewhere a piece of the log is kept and put under the bed to protect the house against
thunder and lightning. The charcoal of the log which burned during Christmas Night, if pounded
up and mixed with water, is a cure for consumption.

Then the log was blessed by the smallest and youngest child of the house, who poured a glass
of wine over it saying, In nomine patris, etc.; after which the log was set on the fire. The
countryman thinks that it is best made of plum-tree, cherry, or oak, and that the larger it
is the better. If it burns well, it is a good omen, the blessing of heaven rests upon it. Nevertheless
if you sit down on the log, you become subject to boils, and to cure yourself of them you must
pass nine times under a bramble branch which happens to be rooted in the ground at both ends.
The charcoal heals sheep of a disease called the goumon; and the ashes, carefully wrapt up
in white linen, preserve the whole household from accidents. In Vienne, on Christmas Eve, when
supper is over, the master of the house has a great log--the Christmas brand--brought in, and
then, surrounded by all the spectators gathered in profound silence, he sprinkles salt and
water on the log. It is then put on the fire to burn during the three festivals; but they carefully
preserve a piece to be kindled every time that it thunders."[645] In Berry, a district of Central
France, the Yule log was called the cosse de Nau, the last word being an abbreviation of the
usual French word for Christmas (Noël). It consisted of an enormous tree-trunk, so heavy that
the united strength of several men was needed to carry it in and place it on the hearth, where
it served to feed the fire during the three days of the Christmas festivity. Strictly speaking,
it should be the trunk of an old oak-tree which had never been lopped and had been felled at
midnight. It was placed on the hearth at the moment when the tinkle of the bell announced the
elevation of the host at the midnight mass; and the head of the family, after sprinkling it
with holy water, set it on fire. The remains of the log were preserved till the same day next
year. They were kept under the bed of the master of the house; and whenever thunder was heard,
one of the family would take a piece of the log and throw it on the fire, which was believed
to guard the family against lightning. In the Middle Ages, we are told, several fiefs were
granted on condition that the vassal should bring in person a Yule log every year for the hearth
of his liege lord.[646]

[The Yule log in Normandy and Brittany.]

Similar customs and beliefs survived till recent years in some of the remote country villages
of the picturesque district known as the Bocage of Normandy. There it was the grandfather or
other oldest man of the family who chose the Yule log in good time and had it ready for Christmas
Eve. Then he placed it on the hearth at the moment when the church bell began to ring for the
evening service. Kneeling reverently at the hearth with the members of his family in a like
attitude of devotion, the old man recited three Pater Nosters and three Aves, and invoked the
blessing of heaven on the log and on the cottage. Then at the sound of the bell which proclaimed
the sacrament of the mass, or, if the church was too far off to allow the tinkle of the bell
to be heard, at the moment when they judged that the priest was elevating the host before the
high altar, the patriarch sprinkled the burning log with holy water, blessed it in the name
of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, and drew it out of the fire. The charred
log was then carefully kept till the following Christmas as a precious relic which would guard
the house against the levin bolt, evil spirits, sorcerers, and every misfortune that might
befall in the course of the year.[647] In the department of Orne "the Yule-log is called trefouet;
holy water is poured on it; it should last the three days of the festival, and the remains
of it are kept to be put on the fire when it thunders. This brand is a protection both against
thunder and against sorcerers."[648] In Upper Brittany, also, the Yule log is thought to be
a safeguard against thunder and lightning. It is sprinkled with holy water on Christmas morning
and allowed to burn till evening. If a piece of it is thrown into the well, it will ensure
a supply of good water.[649]

[The Yule log in the Ardennes.]

"In almost all the families of the Ardennes," we are told, "at the present day they never fail
to put the Yule log on the fireplace, but formerly it was the object of a superstitious worship
which is now obsolete. The charred remains of it, placed under the pillow or under the house,
preserved the house from storms, and before it was burned the Virgin used to come and sit on
it, invisible, swaddling the infant Jesus. At Nouzon, twenty years ago, the traditional log
was brought into the kitchen on Christmas Eve, and the grandmother, with a sprig of box in
her hand, sprinkled the log with holy water as soon as the clock struck the first stroke of
midnight. As she did so she chanted,

'When Christmas comes, Every one should rejoice, For it is a New Covenant.'

"Following the grandmother and joining in the song, the children and the rest of the family
marched thrice round the log, which was as fine a log as could be got."[650] We can now, perhaps,
understand why in Perigord people who sat on the Yule log suffered from boils,[651] and why
in Lorraine young folks used to be warned that if they sat on it they would have the scab.[652]
The reason probably was that the Virgin and child were supposed to be seated, invisible, upon
the log and to resent the indignity of contact with mortal children.

[The Yule log in the Vosges; the Yule log in Franche-Comté and Burgundy.]

On Christmas Eve the mountaineers of Rupt, in the Vosges, also never fail to put on the hearth
the largest log which the hearth can hold; they call it la galeuche de Noë, that is, the Yule
log. Next morning they rake the ashes for any charred fragments and keep them as valuable talismans
to guard them against the stroke of lightning. At Vagney and other places near it in the Vosges
it used to be customary on the same evening to grease the hinges and the latches of the doors,
that no harsh grating sound should break the slumbers of the infant Christ. In the Vosges Mountains,
too, as indeed in many other places, cattle acquired the gift of speech on Christmas Eve and
conversed with each other in the language of Christians. Their conversation was, indeed, most
instructive; for the future, it seems, had no secret worth mentioning for them. Yet few people
cared to be caught eavesdropping at the byre; wise folk contented themselves with setting a
good store of fodder in the manger, then shut the door, and left the animals to their ruminations.
A farmer of Vecoux once hid in a corner of the byre to overhear the edifying talk of the beasts.
But it did him little good; for one ox said to another ox, "What shall we do to-morrow?" and
the other replied, "We shall carry our master to the churchyard." Sure enough the farmer died
that very night and was buried next morning.[653] In Franche-Comté, the province of France
to the west of the Jura mountains, if the Yule log is really to protect a house against thunder
and lightning, it is essential that it should burn during the midnight mass, and that the flame
should not go out before the divine service is concluded. Otherwise the log is quite useless
for the purpose.[654] In Burgundy the log which is placed on the fire on Christmas Eve is called
the suche. While it is burning, the father of the family, assisted by his wife and children,
sings Christmas carols; and when he has finished, he tells the smallest children to go into
a corner of the room and pray God that the log may give them sweeties. In the buttery of St.
John's College, Oxford, an ancient candle-socket of stone still remains ornamented with the
figure of the Holy Lamb. It was formerly used to burn the Christmas Candle in, on the high
table at supper, during the twelve nights of that festival."[656] "A tall mould candle, called
a Yule candle, is lighted and set on the table; these candles are presented by the chandlers
and grocers to their customers. The Yule-log is bought of the carpenters' lads. It would be
unlucky to light either of them before the time, or to stir the fire or candle during the supper;
the candle must not be snuffed, neither must any one stir from the table till supper is ended.
In these suppers it is considered unlucky to have an odd number at table. A fragment of the
log is occasionally saved, and put under a bed, to remain till next Christmas: it secures the
house from fire; a small piece of it thrown into a fire occurring at the house of a neighbour,
will quell the raging flame. The log was as large as the hearth could hold.[660] At Belford,
in Northumberland, "the lord of the manor sends round to every house, on the afternoon of Christmas
Eve, the Yule Logs--four or five large logs--to be burnt on Christmas Eve and Day. This old
custom has always, I am told, been kept up here."[661] The custom of burning the Yule log at
Christmas used to be observed in Wensleydale and other parts of Yorkshire, and prudent housewives
carefully preserved pieces of the log throughout the year. At Whitby the portions so kept were
stowed away under the bed till next Christmas, when they were burnt with the new log; in the
interval they were believed to protect the house from conflagration, and if one of them were
thrown into the fire, it would quell a raging storm.[662] The practice and the belief were
similar at Filey on the coast of Yorkshire, where besides the Yule log a tall Yule candle was
lit on the same evening.[663] In the West Riding, while the log blazed cheerfully, the people
quaffed their ale and sang, "Yule! Yule! a pack of new cards and a Christmas stool!"[664] At
Clee, in Lincolnshire, "when Christmas Eve has come the Yule cake is duly cut and the Yule
log lit, and I know of some even middle-class houses where the new log must always rest upon
and be lighted by the old one, a small portion of which has been carefully stored away to preserve
a continuity of light and heat."[665] At the village of Wootton Wawen in Warwickshire, down
to 1759 at least, the Yule-block, as it was called, was drawn into the house by a horse on
Christmas Eve "as a foundation for the fire on Christmas Day, and according to the superstition
of those times for the twelve days following, as the said block was not to be entirely reduced
to ashes till that time had passed by."[666] As late as 1830, or thereabout, the scene of lighting
the hearth-fire on Christmas Eve, to continue burning throughout the Christmas season, might
have been witnessed in the secluded and beautiful hill-country of West Shropshire, from Chirbury
and Worthen to Pulverbatch and Pontesbury. The Christmas brand or brund, as they called it,
was a great trunk of seasoned oak, holly, yew, or crab-tree, drawn by horses to the farm-house
door and thence rolled by means of rollers and levers to the back of the wide open hearth,
where the fire was made up in front of it. The embers were raked up to it every night, and
it was carefully tended, that it might not go out during the whole Christmas season. All those
days no light might be struck, given, or borrowed. Such was the custom at Worthen in the early
part of the nineteenth century.[667] In Herefordshire the Christmas feast "lasted for twelve
days, and no work was done. All houses were, and are now, decorated with sprigs of holly and
ivy, which must not be brought in until Christmas Eve. A Yule log, as large as the open hearth
could accommodate, was brought into the kitchen of each farmhouse, and smaller ones were used
in the cottages. W---- P---- said he had seen a tree drawn into the kitchen at Kingstone Grange
years ago by two cart horses; when it had been consumed a small portion was carefully kept
to be used for lighting next year's log. 'Mother always kept it very carefully; she said it
was lucky, and kept the house from fire and from lightning.' It seems to have been the general
practice to light it on Christmas Eve."[668] "In many parts of Wales it is still customary
to keep part of the Yule-log until the following Christmas Eve 'for luck.' It is then put into
the fireplace and burnt, but before it is consumed the new log is put on, and thus 'the old
fire and the new' burn together. In some families this is done from force of habit, and they
cannot now tell why they do it; but in the past the observance of this custom was to keep witches
away, and doubtless was a survival of fire-worship."[669]

[The Yule log in Servia; the cutting of the oak tree to form the Yule log.]

But nowhere, apparently, in Europe is the old heathen ritual of the Yule log preserved to the
present day more perfectly than in Servia. At early dawn on Christmas Eve (Badnyi Dan) every
peasant house sends two of its strongest young men to the nearest forest to cut down a young
oak tree and bring it home. There, after offering up a short prayer or crossing themselves
thrice, they throw a handful of wheat on the chosen oak and greet it with the words, "Happy
Badnyi day to you!" Then they cut it down, taking care that it shall fall towards the east
at the moment when the sun's orb appears over the rim of the eastern horizon. Should the tree
fall towards the west, it would be the worst possible omen for the house and its inmates in
the ensuing year; and it is also an evil omen if the tree should be caught and stopped in its
fall by another tree. It is important to keep and carry home the first chip from the fallen
oak. The trunk is sawn into two or three logs, one of them rather longer than the others. A
flat, unleavened cake of the purest wheaten flour is brought out of the house and broken on
the larger of the logs by a woman. The logs are left for the present to stand outside, leaning
on one of the walls of the house. Each of them is called a Yule log (badnyak).

[Prayers to Colleda.]

Meanwhile the children and young people go from house to house singing special songs called
Colleda because of an old pagan divinity Colleda, who is invoked in every line. In one of them
she is spoken of as "a beautiful little maid"; in another she is implored to make the cows
yield milk abundantly. The day is spent in busy preparations. The women bake little cakes of
a special sort in the shape of lambs, pigs, and chickens; the men make ready a pig for roasting,
for in every Servian house roast pig is the principal dish at Christmas. A bundle of straw,
tied with a rope, is brought into the courtyard and left to stand there near the Yule logs.

[The bringing in of the Yule log.]

At the moment when the sun is setting all the members of the family assemble in the central
hall (the great family kitchen) of the principal house. The mother of the family (or the wife
of the chief of the Zadrooga)[670] gives a pair of woollen gloves to one of the young men,
who goes out and presently returns carrying in his gloved hands the largest of the logs. The
mother receives him at the threshold, throwing at him a handful of wheat, in which the first
chip of the oak tree cut in the early morning for the Yule log has been kept all day. Entering
the central hall with the Yule log the young man greets all present with the words: "Good evening,
and may you have a happy Christmas!" and they all answer in chorus, "May God and the happy
and holy Christmas help thee!" In some parts of Servia the chief of the family, holding a glass
of red wine in his hand, greets the Yule log as if it were a living person, and drinks to its
health. After that, another glass of red wine is poured on the log. Then the oldest male member
of the family, assisted by the young man who brought in the log, places it on the burning fire
so that the thicker end of the log protrudes for about a foot from the hearth. In some places
this end is smeared with honey.

[The ceremony with the straw; the Yule candle.]

Next the mother of the family brings in the bundle of straw which was left standing outside.
All the young children arrange themselves behind her in a row. She then walks slowly round
the hall and the adjoining rooms, throwing handfuls of straw on the floor and imitating the
cackling of a hen, while all the children follow her peeping with their lips as if they were
chickens cheeping and waddling after the mother bird. When the floor is well strewn with straw,
the father or the eldest member of the family throws a few walnuts in every corner of the hall,
pronouncing the words: "In the name of God the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost, Amen!"
A large pot, or a small wooden box, filled with wheat is placed high in the east corner of
the hall, and a tall candle of yellow wax is stuck in the middle of the wheat. Then the father
of the family reverently lights the candle and prays God to bless the family with health and
happiness, the fields with a good harvest, the beehives with plenty of honey, the cattle and
sheep with young, and the cows with abundant milk and rich cream. After that they all sit down
to supper, squatting on the floor, for the use of chairs and tables is forbidden on this occasion.

[The roast Pig; the drawing of the water.]

By four o'clock next morning (Christmas Day) the whole village is astir; indeed most people
do not sleep at all that night. It is deemed most important to keep the Yule log burning brightly
all night long. Very early, too, the pig is laid on the fire to roast, and at the same moment
one of the family goes out into the yard and fires a pistol or gun; and when the roast pig
is removed from the fire the shot is repeated. Hence for several hours in the early morning
of Christmas Day such a popping and banging of firearms goes on that a stranger might think
a stubborn skirmish was in progress. Just before the sun rises a girl goes and draws water
at the village spring or at the brook. Before she fills her vessels, she wishes the water a
happy Christmas and throws a handful of wheat into it. The first cupfuls of water she brings
home are used to bake a special Christmas cake (chesnitsa), of which all the members partake
at dinner, and portions are kept for absent relatives. A small silver coin is baked in the
cake, and he or she who gets it will be lucky during the year.

[The Christmas visiter (polaznik).]

All the family gathered round the blazing Yule log now anxiously expect the arrival of the
special Christmas visiter, who bears the title of polaznik. He is usually a young boy of a
friendly family. No other person, not even the priest or the mayor of the village, would be
allowed to set foot in the house before the arrival of this important personage. Therefore
he ought to come, and generally does come, very early in the morning. He carries a woollen
glove full of wheat, and when the door is opened at his knock he throws handfuls of wheat on
the family gathered round the hearth, greeting them with the words, "Christ is born!" They
all answer, "He is born indeed," and the hostess flings a handful of wheat over the Christmas
visiter, who moreover casts some of his wheat into the corners of the hall as well as upon
the people. Then he walks straight to the hearth, takes a shovel and strikes the burning log
so that a cloud of sparks flies up the chimney, while he says, "May you have this year so many
oxen, so many horses, so many sheep, so many pigs, so many beehives full of honey, so much
good luck, prosperity, progress, and happiness!" Having uttered these good wishes, he embraces
and kisses his host. Then he turns again to the hearth, and after crossing himself falls on
his knees and kisses the projecting part of the Yule log. On rising to his feet he places a
coin on the log as his gift. Meanwhile a low wooden chair has been brought in by a woman, and
the visiter is led to it to take his seat. But just as he is about to do so, the chair is jerked
away from under him by a male member of the family and he measures his length on the floor.
By this fall he is supposed to fix into the ground all the good wishes which he has uttered
that morning. The hostess thereupon wraps him in a thick blanket, and he sits quietly muffled
in it for a few minutes; the thick blanket in which he is swathed is believed, on the principles
of homoeopathic magic, to ensure that the cows will give thick cream next year. While he sits
thus enriching the milk of the dairy, the lads who are to herd the sheep in the coming year
go to the hearth and kneeling down before it kiss each other across the projecting end of the
Yule log. By this demonstration of affection they are thought to seal the love of the ewes
for their lambs.[671]

[The Yule log among the Servians of Slavonia; the Christmas visiter (polazenik).]

The ritual of the Yule log is observed in a similar form by the Servians who inhabit the southern
provinces of Austria. Thus in Syrmia, a district of Slavonia which borders on Servia, the head
of the house sends out one or two young men on Christmas Eve to cut the Yule log in the nearest
forest. On being brought in, the log is not mixed with the ordinary fuel but placed by itself,
generally leaning against a fruit-tree till the evening shadows begin to fall. When a man carries
it into the kitchen and lays it on the fire, the master of the house throws corn over him,
and the two greet each other solemnly the one saying, "Christ is born," and the other answering
"He is born indeed." Later in the evening the master of the house pours a glass of wine on
the charred end of the log, whereupon one of the younger men takes the burnt piece of wood,
carries it to the orchard, and sets it up against one of the fruit-trees. For this service
he is rewarded by the master of the house with a piece of money. On Christmas Day, when the
family is assembled at table, they expect the arrival of the special Christmas visiter (called
polazenik), the only person who is allowed to enter the house that day. When he comes, he goes
to the hearth, stirs the fire with the poker and says, "Christ is born. May the family enjoy
all good luck and happiness in this year! May the cattle increase in number like the sparks
I have struck!" As he says these words, the mistress of the house pours corn over him and leads
him to the parlour, where he takes the place of honour beside the master of the house. He is
treated with marked attention and respect. The family are at pains to entertain him; they sing
their best songs for his amusement, and after midnight a numerous band of men and maidens escorts
him by torchlight, with songs and jubilation, to his own house.[672]

[The Yule log among the Servians of Dalmatia, Herzegovina, and Montenegro; the Yule log in
Albania.]

Among the Servians of Dalmatia, Herzegovina, and Montenegro it is customary on Christmas Eve
(Badnyi Dan) to fetch a great Yule log (badnyak), which serves as a symbol of family luck.
It is generally cut from an evergreen oak, but sometimes from an olive-tree or a beech. At
nightfall the master of the house himself brings in the log and lays it on the fire. Then he
and all present bare their heads, sprinkle the log with wine, and make a cross on it. After
that the master of the house says, "Welcome, O log! May God keep you from mishap!" So saying
he strews peas, maize, raisins, and wheat on the log, praying for God's blessing on all members
of the family living and dead, for heaven's blessing on their undertakings, and for domestic
prosperity. In Montenegro they meet the log with a loaf of bread and a jug of wine, drink to
it, and pour wine on it, whereupon the whole family drinks out of the same beaker. In Dalmatia
and other places, for example in Rizano, the Yule logs are decked by young women with red silk,
flowers, laurel leaves, ribbons, and even gold wire; and the lights near the doorposts are
kindled when the log is brought into the house. Among the Morlaks, as soon as the master of
the house crosses the threshold with the Yule log, one of the family must sprinkle corn on
him and say, "God bless you," to which he answers, "The same to you." A piece of the log is
kept till New Year's Day to kindle a light with or it is carried out to the fields to protect
them from hail. It is customary to invite before hand a Christmas visitor (polazaynik) and
to admit no one else into the house on that day. He comes early, carrying in his sleeves a
quantity of corn which he throws into the house, saying, "Christ is born." One of the household
replies, "He is born indeed," and throws corn on the visiter. Then the newcomer goes up to
the hearth, pokes the fire and strikes the burning log with the poker so hard that sparks fly
off in all directions. At each blow he says, "I wish the family as many cows, calves, sucking
pigs, goats, and sheep, and as many strokes of good luck, as the sparks that now fly from the log."

[Public celebrations of the fire-festival at Midwinter; the bonfire on Christmas Eve at Schweina
in Thuringia.]

Thus far we have regarded only the private or domestic celebration of the fire-festival at
midwinter. The public celebration of such rites at that season of the year appears to have
been rare and exceptional in Central and Northern Europe. However, some instances are on record.
Thus at Schweina, in Thuringia, down to the second half of the nineteenth century, the young
people used to kindle a great bonfire on the Antonius Mountain every year on Christmas Eve.
Neither the civil nor the ecclesiastical authorities were able to suppress the celebration;
nor could the cold, rain, and snow of the season damp or chill the enthusiasm of the celebrants.
For some time before Christmas the young men and boys were busy building a foundation for the
bonfire on the top of the mountain, where the oldest church of the village used to stand. The
foundation consisted of a pyramidal structure composed of stones, turf, and moss. When Christmas
Eve came round, a strong pole, with bundles of brushwood tied to it, was erected on the pyramid.
The young folk also provided themselves with poles to which old brooms or faggots of shavings
were attached. These were to serve as torches. When the evening grew dark and the church bells
rang to service, the troop of lads ascended the mountain; and soon from the top the glare of
the bonfire lit up the darkness, and the sound of a hymn broke the stillness of night. In a
circle round the great fire lesser fires were kindled; and last of all the lads ran about swinging
their lighted torches, till these twinkling points of fire, moving down the mountain-side,
went out one by one in the darkness. At midnight the bells rang out from the church tower,
mingled with the blast of horns and the sound of singing. Feasting and revelry were kept up
throughout the night, and in the morning young and old went to early mass to be edified by
hearing of the light eternal.[680]

[Bonfires on Christmas Eve in Normandy.]

In the Bocage of Normandy the peasants used to repair, often from a distance of miles, to the
churches to hear the midnight mass on Christmas Eve. They marched in procession by torchlight,
chanting Christmas carols, and the fitful illumination of the woods, the hedges, and the fields
as they moved through the darkness, presented a succession of picturesque scenes. Mention is
also made of bonfires kindled on the heights; the custom is said to have been observed at Athis
near Condé down to recent years.[681]

[Bonfires on St. Thomas's Day in the Isle of Man; the "Burning of the Clavie" at Burghead on
the last day of December; the old rampart at Burghead]

In the Isle of Man, "on the twenty-first of December, a day dedicated to Saint Thomas, the
people went to the mountains to catch deer and sheep for Christmas, and in the evenings always
kindled a large fire on the top of every fingan or cliff. Hence, at the time of casting peats,
every one laid aside a large one, saying, 'Faaid mooar moayney son oie'l fingan'; that is,
'a large turf for Fingan Eve.'"[682] At Burghead, an ancient village on the southern shore
of the Moray Firth, about nine miles from the town of Elgin, a festival of fire called "the
Burning of the Clavie" has been celebrated from time immemorial on Hogmanay, the last day of
December. A tar-barrel is sawn in two, one half of it is set on the top of a stout pole, and
filled with tar and other combustibles. The half-barrel is fastened to the pole by means of
a long nail, which is made for the purpose and furnished gratuitously by the village blacksmith.
The nail must be knocked in with a stone; the use of a hammer is forbidden. When the shades
of evening have begun to fall, the Clavie, as it is called, is set on fire by means of a burning
peat, which is always fetched from the same house; it may not be kindled with a match. As soon
as it is in a blaze, it is shouldered by a man, who proceeds to carry it at a run, flaring
and dripping melted tar, round the old boundaries of the village; the modern part of the town
is not included in the circuit. Close at his heels follows a motley crowd, cheering and shouting.
One bearer relieves another as each wearies of his burden. The first to shoulder the Clavie,
which is esteemed an honour, is usually a man who has been lately married. Should the bearer
stumble or fall, it is deemed a very ill omen for him and for the village. In bygone times
it was thought necessary that one man should carry it all round the village; hence the strongest
man was chosen for the purpose. Moreover it was customary to carry the burning Clavie round
every fishing-boat and vessel in the harbour; but this part of the ceremony was afterwards
discontinued. Finally, the blazing tar-barrel is borne to a small hill called the Doorie, which
rises near the northern end of the promontory. Here the pole is fixed into a socket in a pillar
of freestone, and fresh fuel is heaped upon the flames, which flare up higher and brighter
than ever. Formerly the Clavie was allowed to burn here the whole night, but now, after blazing
for about half an hour, it is lifted from the socket and thrown down the western slope of the
hill. Then the crowd rushes upon it, demolishes it, and scrambles for the burning, smoking
embers, which they carry home and carefully preserve as charms to protect them against witchcraft
and misfortune.[683] The great antiquity of Burghead, where this curious and no doubt ancient
festival is still annually observed, appears from the remains of a very remarkable rampart
which formerly encircled the place. It consists of a mound of earth faced on both sides with
a solid wall of stone and strengthened internally by oak beams and planks, the whole being
laid on a foundation of boulders. The style of the rampart agrees in general with Caesar's
description of the mode in which the Gauls constructed their walls of earth, stone, and logs,[684]
and it resembles the ruins of Gallic fortifications which have been discovered in France, though
it is said to surpass them in the strength and solidity of its structure. No similar walls
appear to be known in Britain. A great part of this interesting prehistoric fortress was barbarously
destroyed in the early part of the nineteenth century, much of it being tumbled into the sea
and many of the stones used to build the harbour piers.[685]

[Procession with burning tar-barrels on Christmas Eve (Old Style) at Lerwick.]

In Lerwick, the capital of the Shetland Islands, "on Christmas Eve, the fourth of January,--for
the old style is still observed--the children go a guizing, that is to say, they disguising
themselves in the most fantastic and gaudy costumes, parade the streets, and infest the houses
and shops, begging for the wherewithal to carry on their Christmas amusements. One o'clock
on Yule morning having struck, the young men turn out in large numbers, dressed in the coarsest
of garments, and, at the double-quick march, drag huge tar barrels through the town, shouting
and cheering as they go, or blowing loud blasts with their 'louder horns.' The tar barrel simply
consists of several--say from four to eight--tubs filled with tar and chips, placed on a platform
of wood. It is dragged by means of a chain, to which scores of jubilant youths readily yoke
themselves. They have recently been described by the worthy burgh officer of Lerwick as 'fiery
chariots, the effect of which is truly grand and terrific.' In a Christmas morning the dark
streets of Lerwick are generally lighted up by the bright glare, and its atmosphere blackened
by the dense smoke of six or eight tar barrels in succession. On the appearance of daybreak,
at six A.M., the morning revellers put off their coarse garments--well begrimed by this time--and
in their turn become guizards. They assume every imaginable form of costume--those of soldiers,
sailors, Highlanders, Spanish chevaliers, etc. Thus disguised, they either go in pairs, as
man and wife, or in larger groups, and proceed to call on their friends, to wish them the compliments
of the season. Formerly, these adolescent guizards used to seat themselves in crates, and accompanied
by fiddlers, were dragged through the town."[686]

[Persian festival of fire at the winter solstice.]

The Persians used to celebrate a festival of fire called Sada or Saza at the winter solstice.
On the longest night of the year they kindled bonfires everywhere, and kings and princes tied
dry grass to the feet of birds and animals, set fire to the grass, and then let the birds and
beasts fly or run blazing through the air or over the fields and mountains, so that the whole
air and earth appeared to be on fire.[687]

§ 8. Thus in the year 1598, when a fatal cattle-plague was raging at Neustadt, near Marburg,
a wise man of the name of Joh. Köhler induced the authorities of the town to adopt the following
remedy. A new waggon-wheel was taken and twirled round an axle, which had never been used before,
until the friction elicited fire. With this fire a bonfire was next kindled between the gates
of the town, and all the cattle were driven through the smoke and flames. Moreover, every householder
had to rekindle the fire on his hearth by means of a light taken from the bonfire. Strange
to say, this salutary measure had no effect whatever in staying the cattle-plague, and seven
years later the sapient Joh. Köhler himself was burnt as a witch. The farmers, whose pigs and
cows had derived no benefit from the need-fire, perhaps assisted as spectators at the burning,
and, while they shook their heads, agreed among themselves that it served Joh. Köhler perfectly
right.[691] According to a writer who published his book about nine years afterwards, some
of the Germans, especially in the Wassgaw mountains, confidently believed that a cattle-plague
could be stayed by driving the animals through a need-fire which had been kindled by the violent
friction of a pole on a quantity of dry oak wood; but it was a necessary condition of success
that all fires in the village should previously be extinguished with water, and any householder
who failed to put out his fire was heavily fined.[692]

[Method kindling the need fire.]

The method of kindling the need-fire is described as follows by a writer towards the end of
the seventeenth century: "When an evil plague has broken out among the cattle, large and small,
and the herds have thereby suffered great ravages, the peasants resolve to light a need-fire.
On a day appointed there must be no single flame in any house nor on any hearth. From every
house a quantity of straw and water and underwood must be brought forth; then a strong oaken
pole is fixed firmly in the earth, a hole is bored in it, and a wooden winch, well smeared
with pitch and tar, is inserted in the hole and turned round forcibly till great heat and then
fire is generated. The fire so produced is caught in fuel and fed with straw, heath, and underwood
till it bursts out into a regular need-fire, which must then be somewhat spread out between
walls or fences, and the cattle and horses driven through it twice or thrice with sticks and
whips. Others set up two posts, each with a hole in it, and insert a winch, along with old
greasy rags, in the holes. Others use a thick rope, collect nine kinds of wood, and keep them
in violent motion till fire leaps forth. Perhaps there may be other ways of generating or kindling
this fire, but they are all directed simply at the cure of the cattle. After passing twice
or thrice through the fire the cattle are driven to their stalls or to pasture, and the heap
of wood that had been collected is destroyed, but in some places every householder must take
with him a brand, extinguish it in a washing-tub or trough, and put it in the manger where
the cattle are fed, where it must lie for some time. The following is Grimm's account of the
mode of kindling it which prevailed in some parts of Central Germany, particularly about Hildesheim,
down apparently to the first half of the nineteenth century: "In many places of Lower Saxony,
especially among the mountains, the custom prevails of preparing the so-called 'wild fire'
for the purpose of preventing cattle-plague; and through it first the pigs, then the cows,
and last of all the geese are driven. The proceedings on the occasion are as follows. The principal
farmers and parishioners assemble, and notice is served to every inhabitant to extinguish entirely
all fire in his house, so that not even a spark remains alight in the whole village. Then young
and old repair to a road in a hollow, usually towards evening, the women carrying linen, and
the men wood and tow. The sockets are stuffed with linen, and the cross-piece is rammed in
as tight as possible, while the poles are bound together at the top by ropes. A rope is wound
about the round, smooth cross-piece, and the free ends of the rope at both sides are gripped
by several persons, who pull the cross-piece to and fro with the utmost rapidity, till through
the friction the linen in the sockets takes fire. When this wood has blazed up and the fire
has nearly died out again, the people hasten to the herds, which have been waiting in the background,
and drive them forcibly, one after the other, through the glow. The 'wild fire' must be made
by prolonged friction; it may not be struck with flint and steel. Some villages do not prepare
it yearly as a preventive of cattle-plague, but only kindle it when the disease has actually
broken out."[694] In the Halberstadt district the ends of the rope which was used to make the
cross-piece revolve in the sockets had to be pulled by two chaste young men.[695]

[The mode of kindling the need-fire in the Mark.]

In the Mark down to the first half of the nineteenth century the practice was similar. We read
that "in many parts of the Mark there still prevails on certain occasions the custom of kindling
a need-fire, it happens particularly when a farmer has sick pigs. Two posts of dry wood are
planted in the earth amid solemn silence before the sun rises, and round these posts hempen
ropes are pulled to and fro till the wood kindles; whereupon the fire is fed with dry leaves
and twigs and the sick beasts are driven through it In some places the fire is produced by
the friction of an old cart-wheel."[696]

[The mode of kindling the need-fire in Mecklenburg]

In Mecklenburg the need-fire used to be lighted by the friction of a rope wound about an oaken
pole or by rubbing two boards against each other. Having been thus elicited, the flame was
fed with wood of seven kinds. The practice was forbidden by Gustavus Adolphus, Duke of Mecklenburg,
in 1682; but the prohibition apparently had little effect, for down to the end of the eighteenth
century the custom was so common that the inhabitants even of large towns made no scruple of
resorting to it. For example, in the month of July 1792 sickness broke out among the cattle
belonging to the town of Sternberg; some of the beasts died suddenly, and so the people resolved
to drive all the survivors through a need-fire. On the tenth day of July the magistrates issued
a proclamation announcing that next morning before sunrise a need-fire would be kindled for
the behoof of all the cattle of the town, and warning all the inhabitants against lighting
fires in their kitchens that evening. So next morning very early, about two o'clock, nearly
the whole population was astir, and having assembled outside one of the gates of the town they
helped to drive the timid cattle, not without much ado, through three separate need-fires;
after which they dispersed to their homes in the unalterable conviction that they had rescued
the cattle from destruction. But to make assurance doubly sure they deemed it advisable to
administer the rest of the ashes as a bolus to the animals. However, some people in Mecklenburg
used to strew the ashes of the need-fire on fields for the purpose of protecting the crops
against vermin. As late as June 1868 a traveller in Mecklenburg saw a couple of peasants sweating
away at a rope, which they were pulling backwards and forwards so as to make a tarry roller
revolve with great speed in the socket of an upright post. Asked what they were about, they
vouchsafed no reply; but an old woman who appeared on the scene from a neighbouring cottage
was more communicative. In the fulness of her heart she confided to the stranger that her pigs
were sick, that the two taciturn bumpkins were her sons, who were busy extracting a need-fire
from the roller, and that, when they succeeded, the flame would be used to ignite a heap of
rags and brushwood, through which the ailing swine would be driven. She further explained that
the persons who kindle a need-fire should always be two brothers or at least bear the same
Christian name.[697]

[The mode of kindling the need-fire in Hanover.]

In the summer of 1828 there was much sickness among the pigs and the cows of Eddesse, a village
near Meinersen, in the south of Hanover. When all ordinary measures to arrest the malady failed,
the farmers met in solemn conclave on the village green and determined that next morning there
should be a need-fire. Thereupon the head man of the village sent word from house to house
that on the following day nobody should kindle a fire before sunrise, and that everybody should
stand by ready to drive out the cattle. The same afternoon all the necessary preparations were
made for giving effect to the decision of the collective wisdom. A narrow street was enclosed
with planks, and the village carpenter set to work at the machinery for kindling the fire.
He took two posts of oak wood, bored a hole about three inches deep and broad in each, and
set the two poles up facing each other at a distance of about two feet. Then he fitted a roller
of oak wood into the two holes of the posts, so that it formed a cross-piece between them.
About two o'clock next morning every householder brought a bundle of straw and brushwood and
laid it down across the street in a prescribed order. The sturdiest swains who could be found
were chosen to make the need-fire. For this purpose a long hempen rope was wound twice round
the oaken roller in the oaken posts: the pivots were well smeared with pitch and tar: a bundle
of tow and other tinder was laid close at hand, and all was ready. The stalwart clodhoppers
now seized the two ends of the rope and went to work with a will. Puffs of smoke soon issued
from the sockets, but to the consternation of the bystanders not a spark of fire could be elicited.
Some people openly declared their suspicion that some rascal had not put out the fire in his
house, when suddenly the tinder burst into flame. The cloud passed away from all faces; the
fire was applied to the heaps of fuel, and when the flames had somewhat died down, the herds
were forcibly driven through the fire, first the pigs, next the cows, and last of all the horses.
The herdsmen then drove the beasts to pasture, and persons whose faith in the efficacy of the
need-fire was particularly robust carried home brands.[698]

[The mode of kindling the need-fire in the Harz Mountains.]

Again, at a village near Quedlinburg, in the Harz Mountains, it was resolved to put a herd
of sick swine through the need-fire. Hearing of this intention the Superintendent of Quedlinburg
hurried to the spot and has described for us what he saw. The beadles went from house to house
to see that there was no fire in any house; for it is well known that should there be common
fire burning in a house the need-fire will not kindle. The men made their rounds very early
in the morning to make quite sure that all lights were out. At two o'clock a night-light was
still burning in the parsonage, and this was of course a hindrance to the need-fire. The peasants
knocked at the window and earnestly entreated that the night-light might be extinguished. But
the parson's wife refused to put the light out; it still glimmered at the window; and in the
darkness outside the angry rustics vowed that the parson's pigs should get no benefit of the
need-fire. However, as good luck would have it, just as the morning broke, the night-light
went out of itself, and the hopes of the people revived. From every house bundles of straw,
tow, faggots and so forth were now carried to feed the bonfire. The noise and the cheerful
bustle were such that you might have thought they were all hurrying to witness a public execution.
Outside the village, between two garden walls, an oaken post had been driven into the ground
and a hole bored through it. In the hole a wooden winch, smeared with tar, was inserted and
made to revolve with such force and rapidity that fire and smoke in time issued from the socket.
The collected fuel was then thrown upon the fire and soon a great blaze shot up. The pigs were
now driven into the upper end of the street. As soon as they saw the fire, they turned tail,
but the peasants drove them through with shrieks and shouts and lashes of whips. At the other
end of the street there was another crowd waiting, who chased the swine back through the fire
a second time. Then the other crowd repeated the manoeuvre, and the herd of swine was driven
for the third time through the smoke and flames. That was the end of the performance. Many
pigs were scorched so severely that they gave up the ghost. The bonfire was broken up, and
every householder took home with him a brand, which he washed in the water-barrel and laid
for some time, as a treasure of great price, in the manger from which the cattle were fed.
But the parson's wife had reason bitterly to repent her folly in refusing to put out that night-light;
for not one of her pigs was driven through the need-fire, so they died.[699]

[The mode of kindling the need-fire in Brunswick.]

In Brunswick, also, the need-fire is known to have been repeatedly kindled during the nineteenth
century. After driving the pigs through the fire, which was kindled by the friction of wood,
some people took brands home, dipped them in water, and then gave the water to the pigs to
drink, no doubt for the purpose of inoculating them still more effectually with the precious
virtue of the need-fire. In the villages of the Drömling district everybody who bore a hand
in kindling the "wild fire" must have the same Christian name; otherwise they laboured in vain.
The fire was produced by the friction of a rope round the beams of a door; and bread, corn,
and old boots contributed their mites to swell the blaze through which the pigs as usual were
driven. In one place, apparently not far from Wolfenbüttel, the needfire is said to have been
kindled, contrary to custom, by the smith striking a spark from the cold anvil.[700] At Gandersheim
down to about the beginning of the nineteenth century the need-fire was lit in the common way
by causing a cross-bar to revolve rapidly on its axis between two upright posts. The rope which
produced the revolution of the bar had to be new, but it was if possible woven from threads
taken from a gallows-rope, with which people had been hanged. While the need-fire was being
kindled in this fashion, every other fire in the town had to be put out; search was made through
the houses, and any fire discovered to be burning was extinguished. The bonfires so kindled
were composed of wood of nine different sorts; there were three such bonfires, and the cattle
were driven round them with great gravity and devotion.[702]

[The mode of kindling the need-fire in Silesia and Bohemia.]

In Silesia, also, need-fires were often employed for the purpose of curing a murrain or preventing
its spread. While all other lights within the boundaries were extinguished, the new fire was
produced by the friction of nine kinds of wood, and the flame so obtained was used to kindle
heaps of brushwood or straw to which every inhabitant had contributed. Through these fires
the cattle, both sick and sound, were driven in the confident expectation that thereby the
sick would be healed and the sound saved from sickness.[703] When plague breaks out among the
herds at Dobischwald, in Austrian Silesia, a splinter of wood is chipped from the threshold
of every house, the cattle are driven to a cross-road, and there a tree, growing at the boundary,
is felled by a pair of twin brothers. The wood of the tree and the splinters from the thresholds
furnish the fuel of a bonfire, which is kindled by the rubbing of two pieces of wood together.
When the bonfire is ablaze, the horns of the cattle are pared and the parings thrown into the
flames, after which the animals are driven through the fire. This is believed to guard the
herd against the plague.[704] The Germans of Western Bohemia resort to similar measures for
staying a murrain. You set up a post, bore a hole in it, and insert in the hole a stick, which
you have first of all smeared with pitch and wrapt in inflammable stuffs. Then you wind a rope
round the stick and give the two ends of the rope to two persons who must either be brothers
or have the same baptismal name. They haul the rope backwards and forwards so as to make the
tarred stick revolve rapidly, till the rope first smokes and then emits sparks. The sparks
are used to kindle a bonfire, through which the cattle are driven in the usual way. And as
usual no other fire may burn in the village while the need-fire is being kindled; for otherwise
the rope could not possibly be ignited.[705] In Upper Austria sick pigs are reported to have
been driven through a need-fire about the beginning of the nineteenth century.[706]

[The use the need-fire in Switzerland.]

The need-fire is still in use in some parts of Switzerland, but it seems to have degenerated
into a children's game and to be employed rather for the dispersal of a mist than for the prevention
or cure of cattle-plague. In some cantons it goes by the name of "mist-healing," while in others
it is called "butter-churning." On a misty or rainy day a number of children will shut themselves
up in a stable or byre and proceed to make fire for the purpose of improving the weather. The
way in which they make it is this. A boy places a board against his breast, takes a peg pointed
at both ends, and, setting one end of the peg against the board on his breast, presses the
other end firmly against a second board, the surface of which has been flaked into a nap. A
string is tied round the peg, and two other boys pull it to and fro, till through the rapid
motion of the point of the peg a hole is burnt in the flaked board, to which tow or dry moss
is then applied as a tinder. In this way fire and smoke are elicited, and with their appearance
the children fancy that the mist will vanish.[707] We may conjecture that this method of dispersing
a mist, which is now left to children, was formerly practised in all seriousness by grown men
in Switzerland. It is thus that religious or magical rites dwindle away into the sports of
children. In the canton of the Grisons there is still in common use an imprecation, "Mist,
go away, or I'll heal you," which points to an old custom of burning up the fog with fire.
A longer form of the curse lingers in the Vallée des Bagnes of the canton Valais. It runs thus:
"Mist, mist, fly, fly, or St. Martin will come with a sheaf of straw to burn your guts, a great
log of wood to smash your brow, and an iron chain to drag you to hell."[708]

[The mode of kindling the need-fire in Sweden and Norway; the need-fire as a protection against
witchcraft.]

In Sweden the need-fire is called, from the mode of its production, either vrid-eld, "turned
fire," or gnid-eld, "rubbed fire." Down to near the end of the eighteenth century the need-fire
was kindled, as in Germany, by the violent rubbing of two pieces of wood against each other;
sometimes nine different kinds of wood were used for the purpose. Cattle were also driven through
the smoke.[709] In Sundal, a narrow Norwegian valley, shut in on both sides by precipitous
mountains, there lived down to the second half of the nineteenth century an old man who was
very superstitious. He set salmon-traps in the river Driva, which traverses the valley, and
he caught many fish both in spring and autumn. When his fishing went wrong, he kindled naueld
("need-fire") or gnideild ("rubbed fire," "friction fire") to counteract the witchcraft, which
he believed to be the cause of his bad luck. He set up two planks near each other, bored a
hole in each, inserted a pointed rod in the holes, and twisted a long cord round the rod. Then
he pulled the cord so as to make the rod revolve rapidly. Thus by reason of the friction he
at last drew fire from the wood. That contented him, for "he believed that the witchery was
thus rendered powerless, and that good luck in his fishing was now ensured."[710]

[The need-fire among the Slavonic peoples.]

Slavonic peoples hold the need-fire in high esteem. They call it "living fire," and attribute
to it a healing virtue. The ascription of medicinal power to fire kindled by the friction of
wood is said to be especially characteristic of the Slavs who inhabit the Carpathian Mountains
and the Balkan peninsula. The mode in which they produce the need-fire differs somewhat in
different places. Thus in the Schar mountains of Servia the task is entrusted to a boy and
girl between eleven and fourteen years of age. They are led into a perfectly dark room, and
having stripped themselves naked kindle the fire by rubbing two rollers of lime wood against
each other, till the friction produces sparks, which are caught in tinder. The Serbs of Western
Macedonia drive two oaken posts into the ground, bore a round hole in the upper end of each,
insert a roller of lime wood in the holes, and set it revolving rapidly by means of a cord,
which is looped round the roller and worked by a bow. Elsewhere the roller is put in motion
by two men, who hold each one end of the cord and pull it backwards and forwards forcibly between
them. Bulgarian shepherds sometimes kindle the need-fire by drawing a prism-shaped piece of
lime wood to and fro across the flat surface of a tree-stump in the forest.[711] But in the
neighbourhood of Küstendil, in Bulgaria, the need-fire is kindled by the friction of two pieces
of oak wood and the cattle are driven through it.[712]

[The need-fire in Russia and Poland; the need-fire in Slavonia.]

In many districts of Russia, also, "living fire" is made by the friction of wood on St. John's
Day, and the herds are driven through it, and the people leap over it in the conviction that
their health is thereby assured; when a cattle-plague is raging, the fire is produced by rubbing
two pieces of oak wood against each other, and it is used to kindle the lamps before the holy
pictures and the censers in the churches.[713] Thus it appears that in Russia the need-fire
is kindled for the sake of the cattle periodically as well as on special emergencies. The fire
is produced by rubbing a pole of poplar wood on a plank of poplar or fir wood and catching
the sparks in tow. The embers are carried home to be used as remedies in sickness.[714] As
practised in Slavonia, the custom of the need-fire used to present some interesting features,
which are best described in the words of an eyewitness:--"In the year 1833 I came for the first
time as a young merchant to Slavonia; it was to Gaj that I went, in the Pozega district. The
time was autumn, and it chanced that a cattle-plague was raging in the neighbourhood, which
inflicted much loss on the people. The peasants believed that the plague was a woman, an evil
spirit (Kutga), who was destroying the cattle; so they sought to banish her. I had then occasion
to observe the proceedings in the villages of Gaj, Kukunjevac, Brezina, and Brekinjska. Towards
evening the whole population of the village was busy laying a ring of brushwood round the boundaries
of the village. All fires were extinguished throughout the village. Then pairs of men in several
places took pieces of wood, which had been specially prepared for the purpose, and rubbed them
together till they emitted sparks. The sparks were allowed to fall on tinder and fanned into
a flame, with which the dry brushwood was kindled. Thus the fire burned all round the village.
The peasants persuaded themselves that thereupon Kuga must take her departure."[715]

[The need-fire in Servia.]

This last account leaves no doubt as to the significance of the need-fire in the minds of Slavonian
peasantry. They regard it simply as a barrier interposed between their cattle and the evil
spirit, which prowls, like a hungry wolf, round the fold and can, like a wolf, be kept at bay
by fire. The same interpretation of the need-fire comes out, hardly less clearly, in the account
which another writer gives of a ceremony witnessed by him at the village of Setonje, at the
foot of the Homolje mountains in the great forest of Servia. An epidemic was raging among the
children, and the need-fire was resorted to as a means of staying the plague. It was produced
by an old man and an old woman in the first of the ways described above; that is, they made
it in the dark by rubbing two sticks of lime wood against each other. Before the healing virtue
of the fire was applied to the inhabitants of the village, two old women performed the following
ceremony. Both bore the name of Stana, from the verb stati, "to remain standing"; for the ceremony
could not be successfully performed by persons of any other name. One of them carried a copper
kettle full of water, the other an old house-lock with the key. Thus equipped they repaired
to a spot outside of the village, and there the old dame with the kettle asked the old dame
with the lock, "Whither away?" and the other answered her, "I came to shut the village against
ill-luck." With that she locked the lock and threw it with the key into the kettle of water.
Then they marched thrice round the village, repeating the ceremony of the lock and key at each
round. Meantime all the villagers, arrayed in their best clothes, were assembled in an open
place. All the fires in the houses had been previously extinguished. Two sturdy yokels now
dug a tunnel through a mound beside an oak tree; the tunnel was just high enough to let a man
creep through it on all fours. Two fires, lit by the need-fire, were now laid, one at each
end of the tunnel; and the old woman with the kettle took her stand at the entrance of the
tunnel, while the one with the lock posted herself at the exit. Facing the latter stood another
woman with a great pot of milk before her, and on the other side was set a pot full of melted
swine's fat. All was now ready. The villagers thereupon crawled through the tunnel on hands
and knees, one behind the other. Each, as he emerged from the tunnel, received a spoonful of
milk from the woman and looked at his face reflected in the pot of melted swine's fat. Then
another woman made a cross with a piece of charcoal on his back. When all the inhabitants had
thus crept through the tunnel and been doctored at the other end, each took some glowing embers
home with him in a pot wherewith to rekindle the fire on the domestic hearth. Lastly they put
some of the charcoal in a vessel of water and drank the mixture in order to be thereby magically
protected against the epidemic.[716]

It would be superfluous to point out in detail how admirably these measures are calculated
to arrest the ravages of disease; but for the sake of those, if there are any, to whom the
medicinal effect of crawling through a hole on hands and knees is not at once apparent, I shall
merely say that the procedure in question is one of the most powerful specifics which the wit
of man has devised for maladies of all sorts. Ample evidence of its application will be adduced
in a later part of this work.[717]

[The need-fire in Bulgaria.]

In Bulgaria the herds suffer much from the raids of certain blood-sucking vampyres called Ustrels.
An Ustrel is the spirit of a Christian child who was born on a Saturday and died unfortunately
before he could be baptized. On the ninth day after burial he grubs his way out of the grave
and attacks the cattle at once, sucking their blood all night and returning at peep of dawn
to the grave to rest from his labours. In ten days or so the copious draughts of blood which
he has swallowed have so fortified his constitution that he can undertake longer journeys;
so when he falls in with great herds of cattle or flocks of sheep he returns no more to the
grave for rest and refreshment at night, but takes up his quarters during the day either between
the horns of a sturdy calf or ram or between the hind legs of a milch-cow. Beasts whose blood
he has sucked die the same night. In any herd that he may fasten on he begins with the fattest
animal and works his way down steadily through the leaner kine till not one single beast is
left alive. The carcases of the victims swell up, and when the hide is stripped off you can
always perceive the livid patch of flesh where the monster sucked the blood of the poor creature.
In a single night he may, by working hard, kill five cows; but he seldom exceeds that number.
He can change his shape and weight very easily; for example, when he is sitting by day between
the horns of a ram, the animal scarcely feels his weight, but at night he will sometimes throw
himself on an ox or a cow so heavily that the animal cannot stir, and lows so pitifully that
it would make your heart bleed to hear. People who were born on a Saturday can see these monsters,
and they have described them accurately, so that there can be no doubt whatever about their
existence. It is, therefore, a matter of great importance to the peasant to protect his flocks
and herds against the ravages of such dangerous vampyres. The way in which he does so is this.
On a Saturday morning before sunrise the village drummer gives the signal to put out every
fire in the village; even smoking is forbidden. Next all the domestic animals, with the exception
of fowls, geese, and ducks, are driven out into the open. In front of the flocks and herds
march two men, whose names during the ceremony may not be mentioned in the village. They go
into the wood, pick two dry branches, and having stript themselves of their clothes they rub
the two branches together very hard till they catch fire; then with the fire so obtained they
kindle two bonfires, one on each side of a cross-road which is known to be frequented by wolves.
After that the herd is driven between the two fires. Coals from the bonfires are then taken
back to the village and used to rekindle the fires on the domestic hearths. For several days
no one may go near the charred and blackened remains of the bonfires at the cross-road. The
reason is that the vampyre is lying there, having dropped from his seat between the cow's horns
when the animals were driven between the two fires. So if any one were to pass by the spot
during these days, the monster would be sure to call him by name and to follow him to the village;
whereas if he is left alone, a wolf will come at midnight and strangle him, and in a few days
the herdsmen can see the ground soaked with his slimy blood. So that is the end of the vampyre.[718]
In this Bulgarian custom, as in the Slavonian custom described above, the conception of the
need-fire as a barrier set up between the cattle and a dangerous spirit is clearly worked out.
The spirit rides the cow till he comes to the narrow pass between the two fires, but the heat
there is too much for him; he drops in a faint from the saddle, or rather from the horns, and
the now riderless animal escapes safe and sound beyond the smoke and flame, leaving her persecutor
prostrate on the ground on the further side of the blessed barrier.

[The need-fire in Bosnia and Herzegovina.]

In Bosnia and Herzegovina there are some local differences in the mode of kindling the need-fire,
or "living fire," as it is called. Thus at Jablanica both the uprights and the roller or cross-piece,
which by its revolution kindles the fire, are made of cornel-tree wood; whereas at Dolac, near
Sarajevo, the uprights and the cross-piece or roller are all made of lime wood. In Gacko, contrary
to the usual custom, the fire is made by striking a piece of iron on an anvil, till sparks
are given out, which are caught in tinder. The "living fire" thus produced is employed for
purposes of healing. In particular, if any one suffers from wounds or sores, ashes of the need-fire
are sprinkled on the ailing part. In Gacko it is also believed that if a pregnant woman witnesses
a conflagration, her child will either be born with a red eruption on its skin or will contract
the malady sooner or later afterwards. The only remedy consists in ashes of the need-fire,
which are mixed with water and given to the child to drink.[719]

[The need-fire in England; the need-fire in Yorkshire.]

In England the earliest notice of the need-fire seems to be contained in the Chronicle of Lanercost
for the year 1268. The annalist tells with pious horror how, when an epidemic was raging in
that year among the cattle, "certain beastly men, monks in garb but not in mind, taught the
idiots of their country to make fire by the friction of wood and to set up an image of Priapus,
whereby they thought to succour the animals."[720] The use of the need-fire is particularly
attested for the counties of Yorkshire and Northumberland. Thus in Yorkshire down to the middle
of the eighteenth century "the favourite remedy of the country people, not only in the way
of cure, but of prevention, was an odd one; it was to smoke the cattle almost to suffocation,
by kindling straw, litter, and other combustible matter about them. The effects of this mode
of cure are not stated, but the most singular part of it was that by which it was reported
to have been discovered. An angel (says the legend), descended into Yorkshire, and there set
a large tree on fire; the strange appearance of which or else the savour of the smoke, incited
the cattle around (some of which were infected) to draw near the miracle, when they all either
received an immediate cure or an absolute prevention of the disorder. It is not affirmed that
the angel staid to speak to anybody, but only that he left a written direction for the neighbouring
people to catch this supernatural fire, and to communicate it from one to another with all
possible speed throughout the country; and in case it should be extinguished and utterly lost,
that then new fire, of equal virtue, might be obtained, not by any common method, but by rubbing
two pieces of wood together till they ignited. Upon what foundation this story stood, is not
exactly known, but it put the farmers actually into a hurry of communicating flame and smoke
from one house to another with wonderful speed, making it run like wildfire over the country."[721]
Again, we read that "the father of the writer, who died in 1843, in his seventy-ninth year,
had a perfect remembrance of a great number of persons, belonging to the upper and middle classes
of his native parish of Bowes, assembling on the banks of the river Greta to work for need-fire.
A disease among cattle, called the murrain, then prevailed to a very great extent through that
district of Yorkshire. The cattle were made to pass through the smoke raised by this miraculous
fire, and their cure was looked upon as certain, and to neglect doing so was looked upon as
wicked. This fire was produced by the violent and continued friction of two dry pieces of wood
until such time as it was thereby obtained. 'To work as though one was working for need-fire'
is a common proverb in the North of England."[722] At Ingleton, a small town nestling picturesquely
at the foot of the high hill of Ingleborough in western Yorkshire, "within the last thirty
years or so it was a common practice to kindle the so-called 'Need-fire' by rubbing two pieces
of wood briskly together, and setting ablaze a large heap of sticks and brushwood, which were
dispersed, and cattle then driven through the smoking brands. This was thought to act as a
charm against the spread or developement of the various ailments to which cattle are liable,
and the farmers seem to have had great faith in it."[723] Writing about the middle of the nineteenth
century, Kemble tells us that the will-fire or need-fire had been used in Devonshire for the
purpose of staying a murrain within the memory of man.[724]

[The need-fire in Northumberland.]

So in Northumberland, down to the first half of the nineteenth century, "when a contagious
disease enters among cattle, the fires are extinguished in the adjacent villages. Two pieces
of dried wood are then rubbed together until fire be produced; with this a quantity of straw
is kindled, juniper is thrown into the flame, and the cattle are repeatedly driven through
the smoke. Part of the forced fire is sent to the neighbours, who again forward it to others,
and, as great expedition is used, the fires may be seen blazing over a great extent of country
in a very short space of time."[725] "It is strange," says the antiquary William Henderson,
writing about 1866, "to find the custom of lighting 'need-fires' on the occasion of epidemics
among cattle still lingering among us, but so it is. The vicar of Stamfordham writes thus respecting
it: 'When the murrain broke out among the cattle about eighteen years ago, this fire was produced
by rubbing two pieces of dry wood together, and was carried from place to place all through
this district, as a charm against cattle taking the disease. Bonfires were kindled with it,
and the cattle driven into the smoke, where they were left for some time. Many farmers hereabouts,
I am informed, had the need-fire.'"[726]

[Martin's account of the need-fire in the Highlands of Scotland.]

In the earliest systematic account of the western islands of Scotland we read that "the inhabitants
here did also make use of a fire called Tin-egin, i.e. a forced fire, or fire of necessity,
which they used as an antidote against the plague or murrain in cattle; and it was performed
thus: all the fires in the parish were extinguished, and then eighty-one married men, being
thought the necessary number for effecting this design, took two great planks of wood, and
nine of them were employed by turns, who by their repeated efforts rubbed one of the planks
against the other until the heat thereof produced fire; and from this forced fire each family
is supplied with new fire, which is no sooner kindled than a pot full of water is quickly set
on it, and afterwards sprinkled upon the people infected with the plague, or upon the cattle
that have the murrain. And this they all say they find successful by experience: it was practised
in the main land, opposite to the south of Skie, within these thirty years."[727]

[The need-fire in the island of Mull; sacrifice of a heifer.]

In the island of Mull, one of the largest of the Hebrides, the need-fire was kindled as late
as 1767. "In consequence of a disease among the black cattle the people agreed to perform an
incantation, though they esteemed it a wicked thing. They carried to the top of Carnmoor a
wheel and nine spindles of oakwood. They extinguished every fire in every house within sight
of the hill; the wheel was then turned from east to west over the nine spindles long enough
to produce fire by friction. If the fire were not produced before noon, the incantation lost
its effect. They failed for several days running. They attributed this failure to the obstinacy
of one householder, who would not let his fires be put out for what he considered so wrong
a purpose. However, by bribing his servants they contrived to have them extinguished and on
that morning raised their fire. They then sacrificed a heifer, cutting in pieces and burning,
while yet alive, the diseased part. They then lighted their own hearths from the pile and ended
by feasting on the remains. Words of incantation were repeated by an old man from Morven, who
came over as master of the ceremonies, and who continued speaking all the time the fire was
being raised. This man was living a beggar at Bellochroy. Asked to repeat the spell, he said,
the sin of repeating it once had brought him to beggary, and that he dared not say those words
again. The whole country believed him accursed."[728] From this account we see that in Mull
the kindling of the need-fire as a remedy for cattle disease was accompanied by the sacrifice
of one of the diseased animals; and though the two customs are for the most part mentioned
separately by our authorities, we may surmise that they were often, perhaps usually, practised
together for the purpose of checking the ravages of sickness in the herds.[729]

[The need-fire in Caithness.]

In the county of Caithness, forming the extreme northeast corner of the mainland of Scotland,
the practice of the need-fire survived down at least to about 1788. We read that "in those
days, when the stock of any considerable farmer was seized with the murrain, he would send
for one of the charm-doctors to superintend the raising of a need-fire. It was done by friction,
thus; upon any small island, where the stream of a river or burn ran on each side, a circular
booth was erected, of stone and turf, as it could be had, in which a semicircular or highland
couple of birch, or other hard wood, was set; and, in short, a roof closed on it. A straight
pole was set up in the centre of this building, the upper end fixed by a wooden pin to the
top of the couple, and the lower end in an oblong trink in the earth or floor; and lastly,
another pole was set across horizontally, having both ends tapered, one end of which was supported
in a hole in the side of the perpendicular pole, and the other in a similar hole in the couple
leg. The horizontal stick was called the auger, having four short arms or levers fixed in its
centre, to work it by; the building having been thus finished, as many men as could be collected
in the vicinity, (being divested of all kinds of metal in their clothes, etc.), would set to
work with the said auger, two after two, constantly turning it round by the arms or levers,
and others occasionally driving wedges of wood or stone behind the lower end of the upright
pole, so as to press it the more on the end of the auger: by this constant friction and pressure,
the ends of the auger would take fire, from which a fire would be instantly kindled, and thus
the needfire would be accomplished. The fire in the farmer's house, etc., was immediately quenched
with water, a fire kindled from this needfire, both in the farm-houses and offices, and the
cattle brought to feel the smoke of this new and sacred fire, which preserved them from the
murrain."[730]

[The need-fire in Caithness.]

The last recorded case of the need-fire in Caithness happened in 1809 or 1810. At Houstry,
Dunbeath, a crofter named David Gunn had made for himself a kail-yard and in doing so had wilfully
encroached on one of those prehistoric ruins called brochs, which the people of the neighbourhood
believed to be a fairy habitation. Soon afterwards a murrain broke out among the cattle of
the district and carried off many beasts. So the wise men put their heads together and resolved
to light a teine-eigin or need-fire as the best way of stopping the plague. They cut a branch
from a tree in a neighbouring wood, stripped it of bark, and carried it to a small island in
the Houstry Burn. Every fire in the district having been quenched, new fire was made by the
friction of wood in the island, and from this sacred flame all the hearths of the houses were
lit afresh. One of the sticks used in making the fire was preserved down to about the end of
the nineteenth century; apparently the mode of operation was the one known as the fire-drill:
a pointed stick was twirled in a hole made in another stick till fire was elicited by the friction.[731]

[Another account of the need-fire in the Highlands.]

Another account of the use of need-fire in the Highlands of Scotland runs as follows: "When,
by the neglect of the prescribed safeguards [against witchcraft], the seeds of iniquity have
taken root, and a person's means are decaying in consequence, the only alternative, in this
case, is to resort to that grand remedy, the Tein Econuch, or 'Forlorn Fire,' which seldom
fails of being productive of the best effects. The cure for witchcraft, called Tein Econuch,
is wrought in the following manner:--A consultation being held by the unhappy sufferer and
his friends as to the most advisable measures of effecting a cure, if this process is adopted,
notice is privately communicated to all those householders who reside within the nearest of
two running streams, to extinguish their lights and fires on some appointed morning. On its
being ascertained that this notice has been duly observed, a spinning-wheel, or some other
convenient instrument, calculated to produce fire by friction, is set to work with the most
furious earnestness by the unfortunate sufferer, and all who wish well to his cause. Relieving
each other by turns, they drive on with such persevering diligence, that at length the spindle
of the wheel, ignited by excessive friction, emits 'forlorn fire' in abundance, which, by the
application of tow, or some other combustible material, is widely extended over the whole neighbourhood.
Communicating the fire to the tow, the tow communicates it to a candle, the candle to a fir-torch,
the torch to a cartful of peats, which the master of the ceremonies, with pious ejaculations
for the success of the experiment, distributes to messengers, who will proceed with portions
of it to the different houses within the said two running streams, to kindle the different
fires. By the influence of this operation, the machinations and spells of witchcraft are rendered
null and void."[732]

[Alexander Carmichael's account of the need-fire in the Highlands of Scotland during the nineteenth
century.]

In various parts of the Highlands of Scotland the needfire was still kindled during the first
half of the nineteenth century, as we learn from the following account:--

"Tein-eigin, neid-fire, need-fire, forced fire, fire produced by the friction of wood or iron
against wood.

"The fire of purification was kindled from the neid-fire, while the domestic fire on the hearth
was re-kindled from the purification fire on the knoll. Among other names, the purification
fire was called Teine Bheuil, fire of Beul, and Teine mor Bheuil, great fire of Beul. The fire
of Beul was divided into two fires between which people and cattle rushed australly for purposes
of purification. The ordeal was trying, as may be inferred from phrases still current. Is teodha
so na teine teodha Bheuil, 'Hotter is this than the hot fire of Beul.' Replying to his grandchild,
an old man in Lewis said ... 'Mary! sonnie, it were worse for me to do that for thee than to
go between the two great fires of Beul.'

"The neid-fire was resorted to in imminent or actual calamity upon the first day of the quarter,
and to ensure success in great or important events.

[The needfire in Arran.]

"The writer conversed with several persons who saw the neid-fire made, and who joined in the
ceremony. As mentioned elsewhere, a woman in Arran said that her father, and the other men
of the townland, made the neid-fire on the knoll on La buidhe Bealltain--Yellow Day of Beltane.
They fed the fire from cuaile mor conaidh caoin--great bundles of sacred faggots brought to
the knoll on Beltane Eve. When the sacred fire became kindled, the people rushed home and brought
their herds and drove them through and round the fire of purification, to sain them from the
bana bhuitseach mhor Nic Creafain Mac Creafain--the great arch witch Mac Crauford, now Crawford.
That was in the second decade of this century.

[The need-fire in North Uist.]

"John Macphail, Middlequarter, North Uist, said that the last occasion on which the neid-fire
was made in North Uist was bliadhna an t-sneachda bhuidhe--the year of the yellow snow--1829
(?). The snow lay so deep and remained so long on the ground, that it became yellow. Some suggest
that the snow was originally yellow, as snow is occasionally red. This extraordinary continuance
of snow caused much want and suffering throughout the Isles. The people of North Uist extinguished
their own fires and generated a purification fire at Sail Dharaich, Sollas. The fire was produced
from an oak log by rapidly boring with an auger. This was accomplished by the exertions of
naoi naoinear ciad ginealach mac--the nine nines of first-begotten sons. From the neid-fire
produced on the knoll the people of the parish obtained fire for their dwellings. Many cults
and ceremonies were observed on the occasion, cults and ceremonies in which Pagan and Christian
beliefs intermingled. Sail Dharaich, Oak Log, obtained its name from the log of oak for the
neid-fire being there. A fragment of this log riddled with auger holes marks a grave in Cladh
Sgealoir, the burying-ground of Sgealoir, in the neighbourhood.

[The need-fire in Reay, Sutherland.]

"Mr. Alexander Mackay, Edinburgh, a native of Reay, Sutherland, says:--'My father was the skipper
of a fishing crew. Before beginning operations for the season, the crew of the boat met at
night in our house to settle accounts for the past, and to plan operations for the new season.
My mother and the rest of us were sent to bed. I lay in the kitchen, and was listening and
watching, though they thought I was asleep. After the men had settled their past affairs and
future plans, they put out the fire on the hearth, not a spark being allowed to live. They
then rubbed two pieces of wood one against another so rapidly as to produce fire, the men joining
in one after the other, and working with the utmost energy and never allowing the friction
to relax. From this friction-fire they rekindled the fire on the hearth, from which all the
men present carried away a kindling to their own homes. Whether their success was due to their
skill, their industry, their perseverance, or to the neid-fire, I do not know, but I know that
they were much the most successful crew in the place. They met on Saturday, and went to church
on Sunday like the good men and the good Christians they were--a little of their Pagan faith
mingling with their Christian belief. I have reason to believe that other crews in the place
as well as my father's crew practised the neid-fire.'

"A man at Helmsdale, Sutherland, saw the tein-eigin made in his boyhood.

"The neid-fire was made in North Uist about the year 1829, in Arran about 1820, in Helmsdale
about 1818, in Reay about 1830."[733]

[The Beltane fire a precaution against witchcraft.]

From the foregoing account we learn that in Arran the annual Beltane fire was regularly made
by the friction of wood, and that it was used to protect men and cattle against a great witch.
When we remember that Beltane Eve or the Eve of May Day (Walpurgis Night) is the great witching
time of the year throughout Europe, we may surmise that wherever bonfires have been ceremonially
kindled on that day it has been done simply as a precaution against witchcraft; indeed this
motive is expressly alleged not only in Scotland, but in Wales, the Isle of Man, and many parts
of Central Europe.[734] It deserves, further, to be noticed that in North Uist the wood used
to kindle the need-fire was oak, and that the nine times nine men by whose exertions the flame
was elicited were all first-born sons. Apparently the first-born son of a family was thought
to be endowed with more magical virtue than his younger brothers. Similarly in the Punjaub
"the supernatural power ascribed to the first born is not due to his being unlucky, but the
idea underlying the belief seems to be that being the first product of the parents, he inherits
the spiritual powers (or magnetism) in a high degree. The success of such persons in stopping
rain and hail and in stupefying snakes is proverbial. It is believed that a first child born
with feet forward can cure backache by kicking the patient in the back, on a crossing."[735]

[The need-fire in Aberdeenshire.]

In the north-east of Aberdeenshire and the neighbourhood, when the cattle-disease known as
the "quarter-ill" broke out, "the 'muckle wheel' was set in motion and turned till fire was
produced. From this virgin flame fires were kindled in the byres. At the same time, if neighbours
requested the favour, live coals were given them to kindle fires for the purification of their
homesteads and turning off the disease. Fumigating the byres with juniper was a method adopted
to ward off disease. Such a fire was called 'needfyre.' The kindling of it came under the censure
of the Presbytery at times."[736]

[The need-fire in Perthshire.]

In Perthshire the need-fire was kindled as a remedy for cattle-disease as late as 1826. "A
wealthy old farmer, having lost several of his cattle by some disease very prevalent at present,
and being able to account for it in no way so rationally as by witchcraft, had recourse to
the following remedy, recommended to him by a weird sister in his neighbourhood, as an effectual
protection from the attacks of the foul fiend. A few stones were piled together in the barnyard,
and woodcoals having been laid thereon, the fuel was ignited by will-fire, that is fire obtained
by friction; the neighbours having been called in to witness the solemnity, the cattle were
made to pass through the flames, in the order of their dignity and age, commencing with the
horses and ending with the swine. The ceremony having been duly and decorously gone through,
a neighbouring farmer observed to the enlightened owner of the herd, that he, along with his
family, ought to have followed the example of the cattle, and the sacrifice to Baal would have
been complete."[737]

[The need-fire in Ireland.]

In County Leitrim, Ireland, in order to prevent fever from spreading, "all the fires on the
townland, and the two adjoining (one on each side), would be put out. Then the men of the three
townlands would come to one house, and get two large blocks of wood. One would be set in the
ground, and the other one, fitted with two handles, placed on the top of it. The men would
then draw the upper block backwards and forwards over the lower until fire was produced by
friction, and from this the fires would be lighted again. This would prevent the fever from
spreading,"[738]

[The use of the need-fire a relic of a time when all fires were kindled by the friction of wood.]

Thus it appears that in many parts of Europe it has been customary to kindle fire by the friction
of wood for the purpose of curing or preventing the spread of disease, particularly among cattle.
The mode of striking a light by rubbing two dry sticks against each other is the one to which
all over the world savages have most commonly resorted for the sake of providing themselves
with fire;[739] and we can scarcely doubt that the practice of kindling the need-fire in this
primitive fashion is merely a survival from the time when our savage forefathers lit all their
fires in that way. Nothing is so conservative of old customs as religious or magical ritual,
which invests these relics of the past with an atmosphere of mysterious virtue and sanctity.
To the educated mind it seems obvious that a fire which a man kindles with the sweat of his
brow by laboriously rubbing one stick against each other can possess neither more nor less
virtue than one which he has struck in a moment by the friction of a lucifer match; but to
the ignorant and superstitious this truth is far from apparent, and accordingly they take infinite
pains to do in a roundabout way what they might have done directly with the greatest ease,
and what, even when it is done, is of no use whatever for the purpose in hand. A vast proportion
of the labour which mankind has expended throughout the ages has been no better spent; it has
been like the stone of Sisyphus eternally rolled up hill only to revolve eternally down again,
or like the water poured for ever by the Danaids into broken pitchers which it could never fill.

[The belief that the need-fire cannot kindle if any other fire remains alight in the neighbourhood.]

The curious notion that the need-fire cannot kindle if any other fire remains alight in the
neighbourhood seems to imply that fire is conceived as a unity which is broken up into fractions
and consequently weakened in exact proportion to the number of places where it burns; hence
in order to obtain it at full strength you must light it only at a single point, for then the
flame will burst out with a concentrated energy derived from the tributary fires which burned
on all the extinguished hearths of the country. So in a modern city if all the gas were turned
off simultaneously at all the burners but one, the flame would no doubt blaze at that one burner
with a fierceness such as no single burner could shew when all are burning at the same time.
The analogy may help us to understand the process of reasoning which leads the peasantry to
insist on the extinction of all common fires when the need-fire is about to be kindled. Perhaps,
too, it may partly explain that ceremonial extinction of all old fires on other occasions which
is often required by custom as a preliminary to the lighting of a new and sacred fire.[740]
We have seen that in the Highlands of Scotland all common fires were extinguished on the Eve
of May-day as a preparation for kindling the Beltane bonfire by friction next morning;[741]
and no doubt the reason for the extinction was the same as in the case of the need-fire. Indeed
we may assume with a fair degree of probability that the need-fire was the parent of the periodic
fire-festivals; at first invoked only at irregular intervals to cure certain evils as they
occurred, the powerful virtue of fire was afterwards employed at regular intervals to prevent
the occurrence of the same evils as well as to remedy such as had actually arisen.

[The needfire among the Iroquois of North America.]

The need-fire of Europe has its parallel in a ceremony which used to be observed by the Iroquois
Indians of North America. "Formerly when an epidemic prevailed among the Iroquois despite the
efforts to stay it, it was customary for the principal shaman to order the fires in every cabin
to be extinguished and the ashes and cinders to be carefully removed; for it was believed that
the pestilence was sent as a punishment for neglecting to rekindle 'new fire,' or because of
the manner in which the fire then in use had been kindled. So, after all the fires were out,
two suitable logs of slippery elm (Ulmus fulva) were provided for the new fire. One of the
logs was from six to eight inches in diameter and from eight to ten feet long; the other was
from ten to twelve inches in diameter and about ten feet long. About midway across the larger
log a cuneiform notch or cut about six inches deep was made, and in the wedge-shaped notch
punk was placed. The other log was drawn rapidly to and fro in the cut by four strong men chosen
for the purpose until the punk was ignited by the friction thus produced. Before and during
the progress of the work of igniting the fire the shaman votively sprinkled tcar-hu'-eñ-we,
'real tobacco,' three several times into the cuneiform notch and offered earnest prayers to
the Fire-god, beseeching him 'to aid, to bless, and to redeem the people from their calamities.'
The ignited punk was used to light a large bonfire, and then the head of every family was required
to take home 'new fire' to rekindle a fire in his or her fire-place."[742]

§ 9. The Sacrifice of an Animal to stay a Cattle-Plague

[The burnt sacrifice of a calf in England and Wales; burnt sacrifice a pig in Scotland.]

Sometimes apparently in England as well as in Scotland the kindling of a need-fire was accompanied
by the sacrifice of a calf. Thus in Northamptonshire, at some time during the first half of
the nineteenth century, "Miss C---- and her cousin walking saw a fire in a field and a crowd
round it. They said, 'What is the matter?' 'Killing a calf.' 'What for?' 'To stop the murrain.'
They went away as quickly as possible. On speaking to the clergyman he made enquiries. The
people did not like to talk of the affair, but it appeared that when there is a disease among
the cows or the calves are born sickly, they sacrifice (i.e. kill and burn) one 'for good luck.'"[743]
It is not here said that the fire was a need-fire, of which indeed the two horrified ladies
had probably never heard; but the analogy of the parallel custom in Mull[744] renders it probable
that in Northamptonshire also the fire was kindled by the friction of wood, and that the calf
or some part of it was burnt in the fire. Certainly the practice of burning a single animal
alive in order to save all the others would seem to have been not uncommon in England down
to the nineteenth century. Thus a farmer in Cornwall about the year 1800, having lost many
cattle by disease, and tried many remedies in vain, consulted with some of his neighbours and
laying their heads together "they recalled to their recollections a tale, which tradition had
handed down from remote antiquity, that the calamity would not cease until he had actually
burned alive the finest calf which he had upon his farm; but that, when this sacrifice was
made, the murrain would afflict his cattle no more." Accordingly, on a day appointed they met,
lighted a large fire, placed the best calf in it, and standing round the blazing pile drove
the animal with pitchforks back into the flames whenever it attempted to escape. Thus the victim
was burned alive to save the rest of the cattle.[745] "There can be no doubt but that a belief
prevailed until a very recent period, amongst the small farmers in the districts remote from
towns in Cornwall, that a living sacrifice appeased the wrath of God. This sacrifice must be
by fire; and I have heard it argued that the Bible gave them warranty for this belief.... While
correcting these sheets I am informed of two recent instances of this superstition. One of
them was the sacrifice of a calf by a farmer near Portreath, for the purpose of removing a
disease which had long followed his horses and his cows. The other was the burning of a living
lamb, to save, as the farmer said, 'his flocks from spells which had been cast on 'em.'"[746]
In a recent account of the fire-festivals of Wales we read that "I have also heard my grandfather
and father say that in times gone by the people would throw a calf in the fire when there was
any disease among the herds. The same would be done with a sheep if there was anything the
matter with a flock. I can remember myself seeing cattle being driven between two fires to
'stop the disease spreading.' When in later times it was not considered humane to drive the
cattle between the fires, the herdsmen were accustomed to force the animals over the wood ashes
to protect them against various ailments."[747] Writing about 1866, the antiquary W. Henderson
says that a live ox was burned near Haltwhistle in Northumberland "only twenty years ago" to
stop a murrain.[748] "About the year 1850 disease broke out among the cattle of a small farm
in the parish of Resoliss, Black Isle, Ross-shire. The farmer prevailed on his wife to undertake
a journey to a wise woman of renown in Banffshire to ask a charm against the effects of the
'ill eye.' The long journey of upwards of fifty miles was performed by the good wife, and the
charm was got. One chief thing ordered was to burn to death a pig, and sprinkle the ashes over
the byre and other farm buildings. This order was carried out, except that the pig was killed
before it was burned. A more terrible sacrifice was made at times. One of the diseased animals
was rubbed over with tar, driven forth, set on fire, and allowed to run till it fell down and
died."[749] "Living animals have been burnt alive in sacrifice within memory to avert the loss
of other stock. The burial of three puppies 'brandise-wise' in a field is supposed to rid it
of weeds. Throughout the rural districts of Devon witchcraft is an article of current faith,
and the toad is thrown into the flames as an emissary of the evil one."[750]

[The calf is burnt in order to break a spell which has been cast on the herd.]

But why, we may ask, should the burning alive of a calf or a sheep be supposed to save the
rest of the herd or the flock from the murrain? According to one writer, as we have seen, the
burnt sacrifice was thought to appease the wrath of God.[751] The idea of appeasing the wrath
of a ferocious deity by burning an animal alive is probably no more than a theological gloss
put on an old heathen rite; it would hardly occur to the simple mind of an English bumpkin,
who, though he may be stupid, is not naturally cruel and does not conceive of a divinity who
takes delight in the contemplation of suffering. To his thinking God has little or nothing
to do with the murrain, but witches, ill-wishers, and fairies have a great deal to do with
it. The English farmer who burned one of his lambs alive said that he did it "to save his flocks
from spells which had been cast on them"; and the Scotch farmer who was bidden to burn a pig
alive for a similar purpose, but who had the humanity to kill the animal first, believed that
this was a remedy for the "evil eye" which had been cast upon his beasts. Again, we read that
"a farmer, who possessed broad acres, and who was in many respects a sensible man, was greatly
annoyed to find that his cattle became diseased in the spring. Nothing could satisfy him but
that they were bewitched, and he was resolved to find out the person who had cast the evil
eye on his oxen. According to an anciently-prescribed rule, the farmer took one of his bullocks
and bled it to death, catching all the blood on bundles of straw. The bloody straw was then
piled into a heap, and set on fire. Burning with a vast quantity of smoke, the farmer expected
to see the witch, either in reality or in shadow, amidst the smoke."[752] Such reasons express
the real beliefs of the peasants. "Cattle, like human beings, were exposed to the influences
of the evil eye, of forespeaking, and of the casting of evil. Witches and warlocks did the
work of evil among their neighbours' cattle if their anger had been aroused in any way. The
fairies often wrought injury amongst cattle. Every animal that died suddenly was killed by
the dart of the fairies, or, in the language of the people, was 'shot-a-dead.' Flint arrows
and spear-heads went by the name of 'faery dairts....' When an animal died suddenly the canny
woman of the district was sent for to search for the 'faery dairt,' and in due course she found
one, to the great satisfaction of the owner of the dead animal."[753]

[Mode in which the burning of a bewitched animal is supposed to break the spell.]

But how, we must still ask, can burning an animal alive break the spell that has been cast
upon its fellows by a witch or a warlock? Some light is thrown on the question by the following
account of measures which rustic wiseacres in Suffolk are said to have adopted as a remedy
for witchcraft. "A woman I knew forty-three years had been employed by my predecessor to take
care of his poultry. At the time I came to make her acquaintance she was a bedridden toothless
crone, with chin and nose all but meeting. She did not discourage in her neighbours the idea
that she knew more than people ought to know, and had more power than others had. Many years
before I knew her it happened one spring that the ducks, which were a part of her charge, failed
to lay eggs.... She at once took it for granted that the ducks had been bewitched. This misbelief
involved very shocking consequences, for it necessitated the idea that so diabolical an act
could only be combated by diabolical cruelty. And the most diabolical act of cruelty she could
imagine was that of baking alive in a hot oven one of the ducks. And that was what she did.
The sequence of thought in her mind was that the spell that had been laid on the ducks was
that of preternaturally wicked wilfulness; that this spell could only be broken through intensity
of suffering, in this case death by burning; that the intensity of suffering would break the
spell in the one roasted to death; and that the spell broken in one would be altogether broken,
that is, in all the ducks.... Shocking, however, as was this method of exorcising the ducks,
there was nothing in it original. Just about a hundred years before, everyone in the town and
neighbourhood of Ipswich had heard, and many had believed, that a witch had been burnt to death
in her own house at Ipswich by the process of burning alive one of the sheep she had bewitched.
It was curious, but it was as convincing as curious, that the hands and feet of this witch
were the only parts of her that had not been incinerated. This, however, was satisfactorily
explained by the fact that the four feet of the sheep, by which it had been suspended over
the fire, had not been destroyed in the flames that had consumed its body."[754] According
to a slightly different account of the same tragic incident, the last of the "Ipswitch witches,"
one Grace Pett, "laid her hand heavily on a farmer's sheep, who, in order to punish her, fastened
one of the sheep in the ground and burnt it, except the feet, which were under the earth. The
next morning Grace Pett was found burnt to a cinder, except her feet. Her fate is recorded
in the Philosophical Transactions as a case of spontaneous combustion."[755]

[In burning the bewitched animal you burn the witch herself.]

This last anecdote is instructive, if perhaps not strictly authentic. It shows that in burning
alive one of a bewitched flock or herd what you really do is to burn the witch, who is either
actually incarnate in the animal or perhaps more probably stands in a relation of sympathy
with it so close as almost to amount to identity. Hence if you burn the creature to ashes,
you utterly destroy the witch and thereby save the whole of the rest of the flock or herd from
her abominable machinations; whereas if you only partially burn the animal, allowing some parts
of it to escape the flames, the witch is only half-baked, and her power for mischief may be
hardly, if at all, impaired by the grilling. We can now see that in such matters half-measures
are useless. To kill the animal first and burn it afterwards is a weak compromise, dictated
no doubt by a well-meant but utterly mistaken kindness; it is like shutting the stable-door
when the steed is stolen, for obviously by leaving the animal's, and therefore the witch's,
body nearly intact at the moment of death, it allows her soul to escape and return safe and
sound to her own human body, which all the time is probably lying quietly at home in bed. And
the same train of reasoning that justifies the burning alive of bewitched animals justifies
and indeed requires the burning alive of the witches themselves; it is really the only way
of destroying them, body and soul, and therefore of thoroughly extirpating the whole infernal crew.

[Practice of burning cattle and sheep as sacrifices in the Isle of Man.]

In the Isle of Man the practice of burning cattle alive in order to stop a murrain seems to
have persisted down to a time within living memory. On this subject I will quote the evidence
collected by Sir John Rhys: "A respectable farmer from Andreas told me that he was driving
with his wife to the neighbouring parish of Jurby some years ago, and that on the way they
beheld the carcase of a cow or an ox burning in a field, with a woman engaged in stirring the
fire. On reaching the village to which they were going, they found that the burning beast belonged
to a farmer whom they knew. They were further told it was no wonder that the said farmer had
one of his cattle burnt, as several of them had recently died. Whether this was a case of sacrifice
or not I cannot say. But let me give you another instance: a man whom I have already mentioned,
saw at a farm nearer the centre of the island a live calf being burnt. The owner bears an English
name, but his family has long been settled in Man. The farmer's explanation to my informant
was that the calf was burnt to secure luck for the rest of the herd, some of which were threatening
to die. My informant thought there was absolutely nothing the matter with them, except that
they had too little to eat. Be that as it may, the one calf was sacrificed as a burnt-offering
to secure luck for the rest of the cattle. Let me here also quote Mr. Moore's note in his Manx
Surnames, p. 184, on the place name Cabbal yn Oural Losht, or the Chapel of the Burnt Sacrifice.
'This name,' he says, 'records a circumstance which took place in the nineteenth century, but
which, it is to be hoped, was never customary in the Isle of Man. A farmer, who had lost a
number of his sheep and cattle by murrain, burned a calf as a propitiatory offering to the
Deity on this spot, where a chapel was afterwards built. Hence the name.' Particulars, I may
say, of time, place, and person could be easily added to Mr. Moore's statement, excepting,
perhaps as to the deity in question; on that point I have never been informed, but Mr. Moore
is probably right in the use of the capital d, as the sacrificer is, according to all accounts,
a highly devout Christian. One more instance: an octogenarian woman, born in the parish of
Bride, and now living at Kirk Andreas, saw, when she was a 'lump of a girl' of ten or fifteen
years of age, a live sheep being burnt in a field in the parish of Andreas, on May-day, whereby
she meant the first of May reckoned according to the Old Style. She asserts very decidedly
that it was son oural, 'as a sacrifice,' as she put it, and 'for an object to the public':
those were her words when she expressed herself in English. Further, she made the statement
that it was a custom to burn a sheep on old May-day for a sacrifice. I was fully alive to the
interest of this evidence, and cross-examined her so far as her age allows of it, and I find
that she adheres to her statement with all firmness."[756]

[By burning a bewitched animal you compel the witch to appear.]

But Manxmen burn beasts when they are dead as well as when they are alive; and their reasons
for burning the dead animals may help us to understand their reasons for burning the living
animals. On this subject I will again quote Sir John Rhys: "When a beast dies on a farm, of
course it dies, according to the old-fashioned view of things, as I understand it, from the
influence of the evil eye or the interposition of a witch. So if you want to know to whom you
are indebted for the loss of the beast, you have simply to burn its carcase in the open air
and watch who comes first to the spot or who first passes by; that is the criminal to be charged
with the death of the animal, and he cannot help coming there--such is the effect of the fire.
A Michael woman, who is now about thirty, related to me how she watched while the carcase of
a bewitched colt was burning, how she saw the witch coming, and how she remembers her shrivelled
face, with nose and chin in close proximity. According to another native of Michael, a well-informed
middle-aged man, the animal in question was oftenest a calf, and it was wont to be burnt whole,
skin and all. The object, according to him, is invariably to bring the bewitcher on the spot,
and he always comes; but I am not clear what happens to him when he appears. My informant added,
however, that it was believed that, unless the bewitcher got possession of the heart of the
burning beast, he lost all his power of bewitching."[757]

[Magic sympathy between the witch and the bewitched animal.]

These statements shew that in the Isle of Man the sympathetic relation between the witch and
his or her animal victim is believed to be so close that by burning the animal you compel the
witch to appear. The original idea may have been that, by virtue of a magic sympathy which
binds the two together, whatever harm you do to the animal is felt by the witch as if it were
done to herself. That notion would fully explain why Manx people used also to burn bewitched
animals alive; in doing so they probably imagined that they were simultaneously burning the
witch who had cast the spell on their cattle.

[Parallel belief in magic sympathy between the animal shape of a were-wolf and his or her ordinary
human shape: by wounding the wolf you simultaneously wound the man or woman.]

This explanation of the reason for burning a bewitched animal, dead or alive, is confirmed
by the parallel belief concerning were-wolves. It is commonly supposed that certain men and
women can transform themselves by magic art into wolves or other animals, but that any wound
inflicted on such a transformed beast (a were-wolf or other were-animal) is simultaneously
inflicted on the human body of the witch or warlock who had transformed herself or himself
into the creature. This belief is widely diffused; it meets us in Europe, Asia, and Africa.
For example, Olaus Magnus tells us that in Livonia, not many years before he wrote, a noble
lady had a dispute with her slave on the subject of were-wolves, she doubting whether there
were any such things, and he maintaining that there were. To convince her he retired to a room,
from which he soon appeared in the form of a wolf. Being chased by the dogs into the forest
and brought to bay, the wolf defended himself fiercely, but lost an eye in the struggle. Next
day the slave returned to his mistress in human form but with only one eye.[758] Again, it
happened in the year 1588 that a gentleman in a village among the mountains of Auvergne, looking
out of the window one evening, saw a friend of his going out to hunt. He begged him to bring
him back some of his bag, and his friend said that he would. Well, he had not gone very far
before he met a huge wolf. He fired and missed it, and the animal attacked him furiously, but
he stood on his guard and with an adroit stroke of his hunting knife he cut off the right fore-paw
of the brute, which thereupon fled away and he saw it no more. He returned to his friend, and
drawing from his pouch the severed paw of the wolf he found to his horror that it was turned
into a woman's hand with a golden ring on one of the fingers. His friend recognized the ring
as that of his own wife and went to find her. She was sitting by the fire with her right arm
under her apron. As she refused to draw it out, her husband confronted her with the hand and
the ring on it. She at once confessed the truth, that it was she in the form of a were-wolf
whom the hunter had wounded. Her confession was confirmed by applying the severed hand to the
stump of her arm, for the two fitted exactly. The angry husband delivered up his wicked wife
to justice; she was tried and burnt as a witch.[759] It is said that a were-wolf, scouring
the streets of Padua, was caught, and when they cut off his four paws he at once turned into
a man, but with both his hands and feet amputated.[760] Again, in a farm of the French district
of Beauce, there was once a herdsman who never slept at home. These nocturnal absences naturally
attracted attention and set people talking. At the same time, by a curious coincidence, a wolf
used to prowl round the farm every night and to excite the dogs in the farmyard to fury by
thrusting his snout derisively through the cat's hole in the great gate. The farmer had his
suspicions and he determined to watch. One night, when the herdsman went out as usual, his
master followed him quietly till he came to a hut, where with his own eyes he saw the man put
on a broad belt and at once turn into a wolf, which scoured away over the fields. The farmer
smiled a sickly sort of smile and went back to the farm. There he took a stout stick and sat
down at the cat's hole to wait. He had not long to wait. The dogs barked like mad, a wolf's
snout shewed through the hole, down came the stick, out gushed the blood, and a voice was heard
to say without the gate, "A good job too. I had still three years to run." Next day the herdsman
appeared as usual, but he had a scar on his brow, and he never went out again at night.[761]

[Werewolves in China.]

In China also the faith in similar transformation is reflected in the following tale. A certain
man in Sung-yang went into the mountains to gather fuel. Night fell and he was pursued by two
tigers, but scrambled up a tree out of their reach. Then said the one tiger to the other tiger,
"If we can find Chu-Tu-shi, we are sure to catch this man up the tree." So off went one of
them to find Chu-Tu-shi, while the other kept watch at the foot of the tree. Soon after that
another tiger, leaner and longer than the other two, appeared on the scene and made a grab
at the man's coat. But fortunately the moon was shining, the man saw the paw, and with a stroke
of his axe cut off one of its claws. The tigers roared and fled, one after the other, so the
man climbed down the tree and went home. When he told his tale in the village, suspicion naturally
fell on the said Chu-Tu-shi; next day some men went to see him in his house. They were told
that they could not see him; for he had been out the night before and had hurt his hand, and
he was now ill in bed. So they put two and two together and reported him to the police. The
police arrived, surrounded the house, and set fire to it; but Chu-Tu-shi rose from his bed,
turned into a tiger, charged right through the police, and escaped, and to this day nobody
ever knew where he went to.[762]

[Werewolves among the Toradjas of Central Celebes.]

The Toradjas of Central Celebes stand in very great fear of werewolves, that is of men and
women, who have the power of transforming their spirits into animals such as cats, crocodiles,
wild pigs, apes, deer, and buffaloes, which roam about battening on human flesh, and especially
on human livers, while the men and women in their own proper human form are sleeping quietly
in their beds at home. Among them a man is either born a were-wolf or becomes one by infection;
for mere contact with a were-wolf, or even with anything that has been touched by his spittle,
is quite enough to turn the most innocent person into a were-wolf; nay even to lean your head
against anything against which a were-wolf has leaned his head suffices to do it. The penalty
for being a were-wolf is death; but the sentence is never passed until the accused has had
a fair trial and his guilt has been clearly demonstrated by an ordeal, which consists in dipping
the middle finger into boiling resin. If the finger is not burnt, the man is no were-wolf;
but if it is burnt, a werewolf he most assuredly is, so they take him away to a quiet spot
and hack him to bits. In cutting him up the executioners are naturally very careful not to
be bespattered with his blood, for if that were to happen they would of course be turned into
were-wolves themselves. Further, they place his severed head beside his hinder-quarters to
prevent his soul from coming to life again and pursuing his depredations. So great is the horror
of were-wolves among the Toradjas, and so great is their fear of contracting the deadly taint
by infection, that many persons have assured a missionary that they would not spare their own
child if they knew him to be a were-wolf.[763] Now these people, whose faith in were-wolves
is not a mere dying or dead superstition but a living, dreadful conviction, tell stories of
were-wolves which conform to the type which we are examining. They say that once upon a time
a were-wolf came in human shape under the house of a neighbour, while his real body lay asleep
as usual at home, and calling out softly to the man's wife made an assignation with her to
meet him in the tobacco-field next day. But the husband was lying awake and he heard it all,
but he said nothing to anybody. Next day chanced to be a busy one in the village, for a roof
had to be put on a new house and all the men were lending a hand with the work, and among them
to be sure was the were-wolf himself, I mean to say his own human self; there he was up on
the roof working away as hard as anybody. But the woman went out to the tobacco-field, and
behind went unseen her husband, slinking through the underwood. When they were come to the
field, he saw the were-wolf make up to his wife, so out he rushed and struck at him with a
stick. Quick as thought, the were-wolf turned himself into a leaf, but the man was as nimble,
for he caught up the leaf, thrust it into the joint of bamboo, in which he kept his tobacco,
and bunged it up tight. Then he walked back with his wife to the village, carrying the bamboo
with the werewolf in it. When they came to the village, the human body of the were-wolf was
still on the roof, working away with the rest. The man put the bamboo in a fire. At that the
human were-wolf looked down from the roof and said, "Don't do that." The man drew the bamboo
from the fire, but a moment afterwards he put it in the fire again, and again the human were-wolf
on the roof looked down and cried, "Don't do that." But this time the man kept the bamboo in
the fire, and when it blazed up, down fell the human were-wolf from the roof as dead as a stone.[764]
Again, the following story went round among the Toradjas not so very many years ago. The thing
happened at Soemara, on the Gulf of Tomori. It was evening and some men sat chatting with a
certain Hadji Mohammad. When it had grown dark, one of the men went out of the house for something
or other. A little while afterwards one of the company thought he saw a stag's antlers standing
out sharp and clear against the bright evening sky. So Hadji Mohammad raised his gun and fired.
A minute or two afterwards back comes the man who had gone out, and says he to Hadji Mohammad,
"You shot at me and hit me. You must pay me a fine." They searched him but found no wound on
him anywhere. Then they knew that he was a were-wolf who had turned himself into a stag and
had healed the bullet-wound by licking it. However, the bullet had found its billet, for two
days afterwards he was a dead man.[765]

[Were-wolves in the Egyptian Sudan.]

In Sennar, a province of the Egyptian Sudan, the Hammeg and Fungi enjoy the reputation of being
powerful magicians who can turn themselves into hyaenas and in that guise scour the country
at night, howling and gorging themselves. But by day they are men again. It is very dangerous
to shoot at such human hyaenas by night. On the Jebel Bela mountain a soldier once shot at
a hyaena and hit it, but it dragged itself off, bleeding, in the darkness and escaped. Next
morning he followed up the trail of blood and it led him straight to the hut of a man who was
everywhere known for a wizard. Nothing of the hyaena was to be seen, but the man himself was
laid up in the house with a fresh wound and died soon afterwards. And the soldier did not long
survive him.[766]

[The were-wolf story in Petronius.]

But the classical example of these stories is an old Roman tale told by Petronius. It is put
in the mouth of one Niceros. Late at night he left the town to visit a friend of his, a widow,
who lived at a farm five miles down the road. He was accompanied by a soldier, who lodged in
the same house, a man of Herculean build. When they set out it was near dawn, but the moon
shone as bright as day. Passing through the outskirts of the town, they came amongst the tombs,
which lined the highroad for some distance. There the soldier made an excuse for retiring behind
a monument, and Niceros sat down to wait for him, humming a tune and counting the tombstones
to pass the time. In a little he looked round for his companion, and saw a sight which froze
him with horror. The soldier had stripped off his clothes to the last rag and laid them at
the side of the highway. Then he performed a certain ceremony over them, and immediately was
changed into a wolf, and ran howling into the forest. When Niceros had recovered himself a
little, he went to pick up the clothes, but found that they were turned to stone. More dead
than alive, he drew his sword, and, striking at every shadow cast by the tombstones on the
moonlit road, he tottered to his friend's house. He entered it like a ghost, to the surprise
of the widow, who wondered to see him abroad so late. "If you had only been here a little ago,"
said she, "you might have been of some use. For a wolf came tearing into the yard, scaring
the cattle and bleeding them like a butcher. But he did not get off so easily, for the servant
speared him in the neck." After hearing these words, Niceros felt that he could not close an
eye, so he hurried away home again. It was now broad daylight, but when he came to the place
where the clothes had been turned to stone, he found only a pool of blood. He reached home,
and there lay the soldier in bed like an ox in the shambles, and the doctor was bandaging his
neck. "Then I knew," said Niceros, "that the man was a were-wolf, and never again could I break
bread with him, no, not if you had killed me for it."[767]

[Witches like were-wolves can temporarily transform themselves into animals.]

These stories may help us to understand the custom of burning a bewitched animal, which has
been observed in our own country down to recent times, if indeed it is even now extinct. For
a close parallel may be traced in some respects between witches and were-wolves. Like were-wolves,
witches are commonly supposed to be able to transform themselves temporarily into animals for
the purpose of playing their mischievous pranks;[768] and like were-wolves they can in their
animal disguise be compelled to unmask themselves to any one who succeeds in drawing their
blood. In either case the animal-skin is conceived as a cloak thrown round the wicked enchanter;
and if you can only pierce the skin, whether by the stab of a knife or the shot of a gun, you
so rend the disguise that the man or woman inside of it stands revealed in his or her true
colours. Strictly speaking, the stab should be given on the brow or between the eyes in the
case both of a witch and of a were-wolf;[769] and it is vain to shoot at a were-wolf unless
you have had the bullet blessed in a chapel of St. Hubert or happen to be carrying about you,
without knowing it, a four-leaved clover; otherwise the bullet will merely rebound from the
were-wolf like water from a duck's back.[770] However, in Armenia they say that the were-wolf,
who in that country is usually a woman, can be killed neither by shot nor by steel; the only
way of delivering the unhappy woman from her bondage is to get hold of her wolf's skin and
burn it; for that naturally prevents her from turning into a wolf again. But it is not easy
to find the skin, for she is cunning enough to hide it by day.[771] So with witches, it is
not only useless but even dangerous to shoot at one of them when she has turned herself into
a hare; if you do, the gun may burst in your hand or the shot come back and kill you. The only
way to make quite sure of hitting a witch-animal is to put a silver sixpence or a silver button
in your gun.[772] For example, it happened one evening that a native of the island of Tiree
was going home with a new gun, when he saw a black sheep running towards him across the plain
of Reef. Something about the creature excited his suspicion, so he put a silver sixpence in
his gun and fired at it. Instantly the black sheep became a woman with a drugget coat wrapt
round her head. The man knew her quite well, for she was a witch who had often persecuted him
before in the shape of a cat.[773]

[Wounds inflicted on an animal into which a witch has transformed herself are inflicted on
the witch herself.]

Again, the wounds inflicted on a witch-hare or a witch-cat are to be seen on the witch herself,
just as the wounds inflicted on a were-wolf are to be seen on the man himself when he has doffed
the wolfs skin. To take a few instances out of a multitude, a young man in the island of Lismore
was out shooting. When he was near Balnagown loch, he started a hare and fired at it. The animal
gave an unearthly scream, and then for the first time it occurred to him that there were no
real hares in Lismore. He threw away his gun in terror and fled home; and next day he heard
that a notorious witch was laid up with a broken leg. A man need be no conjuror to guess how
she came by that broken leg.[774] Again, at Thurso certain witches used to turn themselves
into cats and in that shape to torment an honest man. One night he lost patience, whipped out
his broadsword, and put them to flight. As they were scurrying away he struck at them and cut
off a leg of one of the cats. To his astonishment it was a woman's leg, and next morning he
found one of the witches short of the corresponding limb.[775] Glanvil tells a story of "an
old woman in Cambridge-shire, whose astral spirit, coming into a man's house (as he was sitting
alone at the fire) in the shape of an huge cat, and setting her self before the fire, not far
from him, he stole a stroke at the back of it with a fire-fork, and seemed to break the back
of it, but it scambled from him, and vanisht he knew not how. But such an old woman, a reputed
witch, was found dead in her bed that very night, with her back broken, as I have heard some
years ago credibly reported."[776] In Yorkshire during the latter half of the nineteenth century
a parish clergyman was told a circumstantial story of an old witch named Nanny, who was hunted
in the form of a hare for several miles over the Westerdale moors and kept well away from the
dogs, till a black one joined the pack and succeeded in taking a bit out of one of the hare's
legs. That was the end of the chase, and immediately afterwards the sportsmen found old Nanny
laid up in bed with a sore leg. On examining the wounded limb they discovered that the hurt
was precisely in that part of it which in the hare had been bitten by the black dog and, what
was still more significant, the wound had all the appearance of having been inflicted by a
dog's teeth. So they put two and two together.[777] The same sort of thing is often reported
in Lincolnshire. "One night," said a servant from Kirton Lindsey, "my father and brother saw
a cat in front of them. Father knew it was a witch, and took a stone and hammered it. Next
day the witch had her face all tied up, and shortly afterwards died." Again, a Bardney bumpkin
told how a witch in his neighbourhood could take all sorts of shapes. One night a man shot
a hare, and when he went to the witch's house he found her plastering a wound just where he
had shot the hare.[778] So in County Leitrim, in Ireland, they say that a hare pursued by dogs
fled to a house near at hand, but just as it was bolting in at the door one of the dogs came
up with it and nipped a piece out of its leg. The hunters entered the house and found no hare
there but only an old woman, and her side was bleeding; so they knew what to think of her.[779]

[Wounded witches in the Vosges.]

Again, in the Vosges Mountains a great big hare used to come out every evening to take the
air at the foot of the Mont des Fourches. All the sportsmen of the neighbourhood tried their
hands on that hare for a month, but not one of them could hit it. At last one marksman, more
knowing than the rest, loaded his gun with some pellets of a consecrated wafer in addition
to the usual pellets of lead. That did the trick. If puss was not killed outright, she was
badly hurt, and limped away uttering shrieks and curses in a human voice. Later it transpired
that she was no other than the witch of a neighbouring village who had the power of putting
on the shape of any animal she pleased.[780] Again, a hunter of Travexin, in the Vosges, fired
at a hare and almost shot away one of its hind legs. Nevertheless the creature contrived to
escape into a cottage through the open door. Immediately a child's cries were heard to proceed
from the cottage, and the hunter could distinguish these words, "Daddy, daddy, come quick!
Poor mammy has her leg broken."[781]

[Wounded witches in Swabia.]

In Swabia the witches are liable to accidents of the same sort when they go about their business
in the form of animals. For example, there was a soldier who was betrothed to a young woman
and used to visit her every evening when he was off duty. But one evening the girl told him
that he must not come to the house on Friday nights, because it was never convenient to her
to see him then. This roused his suspicion, and the very next Friday night he set out to go
to his sweetheart's house. On the way a white cat ran up to him in the street and dogged his
steps, and when the animal would not make off he drew his sword and slashed off one of its
paws. On that the cat bolted. The soldier walked on, but when he came to his sweetheart's house
he found her in bed, and when he asked her what was the matter, she gave a very confused reply.
Noticing stains of blood on the bed, he drew down the coverlet and saw that the girl was weltering
in her gore, for one of her feet was lopped off. "So that's what's the matter with you, you
witch!" said he, and turned on his heel and left her, and within three days she was dead.[782]
Again, a farmer in the neighbourhood of Wiesensteig frequently found in his stable a horse
over and above the four horses he actually owned. He did not know what to make of it and mentioned
the matter to the smith. The smith said quietly, "The next time you see a fifth horse in the
stable, just you send for me." Well, it was not long before the strange horse was there again,
and the farmer at once sent for the smith. He came bringing four horse-shoes with him, and
said, "I'm sure the nag has no shoes; I'll shoe her for you." No sooner said than done. However,
the smith overreached himself; for next day when his friend the farmer paid him a visit he
found the smith's own wife prancing about with horse-shoes nailed on her hands and feet. But
it was the last time she ever appeared in the shape of a horse.[783]

[The miller's wife and the two grey cats.]

Once more, in Silesia they tell of a miller's apprentice, a sturdy and industrious young fellow,
who set out on his travels. One day he came to a mill, and the miller told him that he wanted
an apprentice but did not care to engage one, because hitherto all his apprentices had run
away in the night, and when he came down in the morning the mill was at a stand. However, he
liked the looks of the young chap and took him into his pay. But what the new apprentice heard
about the mill and his predecessors was not encouraging; so the first night when it was his
duty to watch in the mill he took care to provide himself with an axe and a prayer-book, and
while he kept one eye on the whirring, humming wheels he kept the other on the good book, which
he read by the flickering light of a candle set on a table. So the hours at first passed quietly
with nothing to disturb him but the monotonous drone and click of the machinery. But on the
stroke of twelve, as he was still reading with the axe lying on the table within reach, the
door opened and in came two grey cats mewing, an old one and a young one. They sat down opposite
him, but it was easy to see that they did not like his wakefulness and the prayer-book and
the axe. Suddenly the old cat reached out a paw and made a grab at the axe, but the young chap
was too quick for her and held it fast. Then the young cat tried to do the same for the prayer-book,
but the apprentice gripped it tight. Thus balked, the two cats set up such a squalling that
the young fellow could hardly say his prayers. Just before one o'clock the younger cat sprang
on the table and fetched a blow with her right paw at the candle to put it out. But the apprentice
struck at her with his axe and sliced the paw off, whereupon the two cats vanished with a frightful
screech. The apprentice wrapped the paw up in paper to shew it to his master. Very glad the
miller was next morning when he came down and found the mill going and the young chap at his
post. The apprentice told him what had happened in the night and gave him the parcel containing
the cat's paw. But when the miller opened it, what was the astonishment of the two to find
in it no cat's paw but a woman's hand! At breakfast the miller's young wife did not as usual
take her place at the table. She was ill in bed, and the doctor had to be called in to bind
up her right arm, because in hewing wood, so they said, she had made a slip and cut off her
own right hand. But the apprentice packed up his traps and turned his back on that mill before
the sun had set.[784]

[The analogy of were-wolves confirms the view that the reason for burning bewitched animals
is either to burn the witch or to compel her to appear.]

It would no doubt be easy to multiply instances, all equally well attested and authentic, of
the transformation of witches into animals and of the damage which the women themselves have
sustained through injuries inflicted on the animals.[785] But the foregoing evidence may suffice
to establish the complete parallelism between witches and were-wolves in these respects. The
analogy appears to confirm the view that the reason for burning a bewitched animal alive is
a belief that the witch herself is in the animal, and that by burning it you either destroy
the witch completely or at least unmask her and compel her to reassume her proper human shape,
in which she is naturally far less potent for mischief than when she is careering about the
country in the likeness of a cat, a hare, a horse, or what not. This principle is still indeed
clearly recognized by people in Oldenburg, though, as might be expected, they do not now carry
out the principle to its logical conclusion by burning the bewitched animal or person alive;
instead they resort to a feeble and, it must be added, perfectly futile subterfuge dictated
by a mistaken humanity or a fear of the police. "When anything living is bewitched in a house,
for example, children or animals, they burn or boil the nobler inwards of animals, especially
the hearts, but also the lungs or the liver. If animals have died, they take the inwards of
one of them or of an animal of the same kind slaughtered for the purpose; but if that is not
possible they take the inwards of a cock, by preference a black one. The heart, lung, or liver
is stuck all over with needles, or marked with a cross cut, or placed on the fire in a tightly
closed vessel, strict silence being observed and doors and windows well shut. When the heart
boils or is reduced to ashes, the witch must appear, for during the boiling she feels the burning
pain. She either begs to be released or seeks to borrow something, for example, salt or a coal
of fire, or she takes the lid off the pot, or tries to induce the person whose spell is on
her to speak. They say, too, that a woman comes with a spinning-wheel. If it is a sheep that
has died, you proceed in the same way with a tripe from its stomach and prick it with needles
while it is on the boil. Instead of boiling it, some people nail the heart to the highest rafter
of the house, or lay it on the edge of the hearth, in order that it may dry up, no doubt because
the same thing happens to the witch. We may conjecture that other sympathetic means of destruction
are employed against witchcraft. The following is expressly reported: the heart of a calf that
has died is stuck all over with needles, enclosed in a bag, and thrown into flowing water before
sunset."[786]

[There is the same reason for burning bewitched things; similarly by burning alive a person
whose form a witch has assumed, you compel the witch to disclose herself.]

And the same thing holds good also of inanimate objects on which a witch has cast her spell.
In Wales they say that "if a thing is bewitched, burn it, and immediately afterwards the witch
will come to borrow something of you. If you give what she asks, she will go free; if you refuse
it, she will burn, and a mark will be on her body the next day."[787] So, too, in Oldenburg,
"the burning of things that are bewitched or that have been received from witches is another
way of breaking the spell. It is often said that the burning should take place at a cross-road,
and in several places cross-roads are shewn where the burning used to be performed.... As a
rule, while the things are burning, the guilty witches appear, though not always in their own
shape. At the burning of bewitched butter they often appear as cockchafers and can be killed
with impunity. Victuals received from witches may be safely consumed if only you first burn
a portion of them."[788] For example, a young man in Oldenburg was wooing a girl, and she gave
him two fine apples as a gift. Not feeling any appetite at the time, he put the apples in his
pocket, and when he came home he laid them by in a chest. Two or three days afterwards he remembered
the apples and went to the chest to fetch them. But when he would have put his hand on them,
what was his horror to find in their stead two fat ugly toads in the chest. He hastened to
a wise man and asked him what he should do with the toads. The man told him to boil the toads
alive, but while he was doing so he must be sure on no account to lend anything out of the
house. Well, just as he had the toads in a pot on the fire and the water began to grow nicely
warm, who should come to the door but the girl who had given him the apples, and she wished
to borrow something; but he refused to give her anything, rated her as a witch, and drove her
out of the house. A little afterwards in came the girl's mother and begged with tears in her
eyes for something or other; but he turned her out also. The last word she said to him was
that he should at least spare her daughter's life; but he paid no heed to her and let the toads
boil till they fell to bits. Next day word came that the girl was dead.[789] Can any reasonable
man doubt that the witch herself was boiled alive in the person of the toads?

[The burning alive of a supposed witch in Ireland in 1895.]

Moreover, just as a witch can assume the form of an animal, so she can assume the form of some
other human being, and the likeness is sometimes so good that it is difficult to detect the
fraud. However, by burning alive the person whose shape the witch has put on, you force the
witch to disclose herself, just as by burning alive the bewitched animal you in like manner
oblige the witch to appear. This principle may perhaps be unknown to science, falsely so called,
but it is well understood in Ireland and has been acted on within recent years. In March 1895
a peasant named Michael Cleary, residing at Ballyvadlea, a remote and lonely district in the
county of Tipperary, burned his wife Bridget Cleary alive over a slow fire on the kitchen hearth
in the presence of and with the active assistance of some neighbours, including the woman's
own father and several of her cousins. They thought that she was not Bridget Cleary at all,
but a witch, and that when they held her down on the fire she would vanish up the chimney;
so they cried, while she was burning, "Away she goes! Away she goes!" Even when she lay quite
dead on the kitchen floor (for contrary to the general expectation she did not disappear up
the chimney), her husband still believed that the woman lying there was a witch, and that his
own dear wife had gone with the fairies to the old rath or fort on the hill of Kylenagranagh,
where he would see her at night riding a grey horse and roped to the saddle, and that he would
cut the ropes, and that she would stay with him ever afterwards. So he went with some friends
to the fort night after night, taking a big table-knife with him to cut the ropes. But he never
saw his wife again. He and the men who had held the woman on the fire were arrested and tried
at Clonmel for wilful murder in July 1895; they were all found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced
to various terms of penal servitude and imprisonment; the sentence passed on Michael Cleary
was twenty years' penal servitude.[790]

[Sometimes bewitched animals are buried alive instead of being burned.]

However, our British peasants, it must be confessed, have not always acted up to the strict
logical theory which seems to call for death by fire as the proper treatment both of bewitched
animals and of witches. Sometimes, perhaps in moments of weakness, they have merely buried
the bewitched animals alive instead of burning them. For example, in the year 1643, "many cattle
having died, John Brughe and Neane Nikclerith, also one of the initiated, conjoined their mutual
skill for the safety of the herd. The surviving animals were drove past a tub of water containing
two enchanted stones: and each was sprinkled from the liquid contents in its course. One, however,
being unable to walk, 'was by force drawin out at the byre dure; and the said Johnne with Nikclerith
smelling the nois thereof said it wald not leive, caused are hoill to be maid in Maw Greane,
quhilk was put quick in the hole and maid all the rest of the cattell theireftir to go over
that place: and in that devillische maner, be charmeing,' they were cured."[791] Again, during
the prevalence of a murrain about the year 1629, certain persons proposed to stay the plague
with the help of a celebrated "cureing stane" of which the laird of Lee was the fortunate owner.
But from this they were dissuaded by one who "had sene bestiall curet be taking are quik seik
ox, and making are deip pitt, and bureing him therin, and be calling the oxin and bestiall
over that place." Indeed Issobell Young, the mother of these persons, had herself endeavoured
to check the progress of the distemper by taking "ane quik ox with ane catt, and ane grit quantitie
of salt," and proceeding "to burie the ox and catt quik with the salt, in ane deip hoill in
the grund, as ane sacrifice to the devill, that the rest of the guidis might be fred of the
seiknes or diseases."[792] Writing towards the end of the eighteenth century, John Ramsay of
Ochtertyre tells us that "the violent death even of a brute is in some cases held to be of
great avail. There is a disease called the black spauld, which sometimes rages like a pestilence
among black cattle, the symptoms of which are a mortification in the legs and a corruption
of the mass of blood. Among the other engines of superstition that are directed against this
fatal malady, the first cow seized with it is commonly buried alive, and the other cattle are
forced to pass backwards and forwards over the pit. At other times the heart is taken out of
the beast alive, and then the carcass is buried. It is remarkable that the leg affected is
cut off, and hung up in some part of the house or byre, where it remains suspended, notwithstanding
the seeming danger of infection. There is hardly a house in Mull where these may not be seen.
This practice seems to have taken its rise antecedent to Christianity, as it reminds us of
the pagan custom of hanging up offerings in their temples. In Breadalbane, when a cow is observed
to have symptoms of madness, there is recourse had to a peculiar process. They tie the legs
of the mad creature, and throw her into a pit dug at the door of the fold. After covering the
hole with earth, a large fire is kindled upon it; and the rest of the cattle are driven out,
and forced to pass through the fire one by one."[793] In this latter custom we may suspect
that the fire kindled on the grave of the buried cow was originally made by the friction of
wood, in other words, that it was a need-fire. Again, writing in the year 1862, Sir Arthur
Mitchell tells us that "for the cure of the murrain in cattle, one of the herd is still sacrificed
for the good of the whole. This is done by burying it alive. I am assured that within the last
ten years such a barbarism occurred in the county of Moray."[794]

[Calves killed and buried to save the rest of the herd.]

Sometimes, however, the animal has not even been buried alive, it has been merely killed and
then buried. In this emasculated form the sacrifice, we may say with confidence, is absolutely
useless for the purpose of stopping a murrain. Nevertheless, it has been tried. Thus in Lincolnshire,
when the cattle plague was so prevalent in 1866, there was, I believe, not a single cowshed
in Marshland but had its wicken cross over the door; and other charms more powerful than this
were in some cases resorted to. I never heard of the use of the needfire in the Marsh, though
it was, I believe, used on the wolds not many miles off. But I knew of at least one case in
which a calf was killed and solemnly buried feet pointing upwards at the threshold of the cowshed.
When our garthman told me of this, I pointed out to him that the charm had failed, for the
disease had not spared that shed. But he promptly replied, "Yis, but owd Edwards were a soight
too cliver; he were that mean he slew nobbutt a wankling cauf as were bound to deny anny road;
if he had nobbutt tekken his best cauf it wud hev worked reight enuff; 'tain't in reason that
owd skrat 'ud be hanselled wi' wankling draffle."[795]

Notes:

[262] See Jacob Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie*[4] (Berlin, 1875-1878), i. 502, 510, 516.

[263] W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus der Germanen und ihrer Nachbarstämme (Berlin, 1875), pp. 518 sq.

[264] In the following survey of these fire-customs I follow chiefly W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus,
kap. vi. pp. 497 sqq. Compare also J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 500 sqq.; Walter E.
Kelly, Curiosities of Indo-European Tradition and Folk-lore (London, 1863), pp. 46 sqq.; F.
Vogt, "Scheibentreiben und Frühlingsfeuer," Zeitschrift des Vereins für Volkskunde, iii. (1893)
pp. 349-369; ibid. iv. (1894) pp. 195-197.

[265] The Scapegoat, pp. 316 sqq.

[266] The first Sunday in Lent is known as Invocavit from the first word of the mass for the
day (O. Frh. von Reinsberg-Düringsfeld, Fest-Kalender aus Böhmen, p. 67).

[267] Le Baron de Reinsberg-Düringsfeld, Calendrier Belge (Brussels, 1861-1862), i. 141-143;
E. Monseur, Le Folklore Wallon (Brussels, N.D.), pp. 124 sq.

[268] Émile Hublard, Fêtes du Temps Jadis, les Feux du Carême (Mons, 1899), pp. 25. For the
loan of this work I am indebted to Mrs. Wherry of St. Peter's Terrace, Cambridge.

[269] É.

[271] L.F. Sauvé, Le Folk-lore des Hautes-Vosges (Paris, 1889), p. 56. The popular name for
the bonfires in the Upper Vosges (Hautes-Vosges) is chavandes.

[272] E. Cortet, Essai sur les fêtes religieuses (Paris, 1867), pp. 101 sq. The local name
for these bonfires is bures.

[273] Charles Beauquier, Les mois en Franche-Comté (Paris, 1900), pp. 33 sq. In Bresse the
custom was similar. See La Bresse Louhannaise, Bulletin Mensuel, Organe de la Société d'Agriculture
et d'Horticulture de l'Arrondissement de Louhans, Mars, 1906, pp. 111 sq.; E. Cortet, op. cit.
p. 100. The usual name for the bonfires is chevannes or schvannes; but in some places they
are called foulères, foualères, failles, or bourdifailles (Ch. Beauquier, op. cit. p. 34).
But the Sunday is called the Sunday of the brandons, bures, bordes, or boidès, according to
the place. The brandons are the torches which are carried about the streets and the fields;
the bonfires, as we have seen, bear another name. A curious custom, observed on the same Sunday
in Franche-Comté, requires that couples married within the year should distribute boiled peas
to all the young folks of both sexes who demand them at the door. The lads and lasses go about
from house to house, making the customary request; in some places they wear masks or are otherwise
disguised. See Ch. Beauquier, op. cit. pp. 31-33.

[274] Curiously enough, while the singular is granno-mio, the plural is grannas-mias.

[275] Dr. Pommerol, "La fête des Brandons et le dieu Gaulois Grannus," Bulletins et Mémoires
de la Société d'Anthropologie de Paris, v. Série, ii. (1901) pp. 427-429.

[276] Op. cit. pp. 428 sq.

[277] H. Dessau, Inscriptiones Latinae Selectae, vol. ii. Pars i. (Berlin, 1902) pp. 216 sq.,
Nos. 4646-4652.

[278] (Sir) John Rhys, Celtic Heathendom (London, 1888), pp. 22-25.

[280] É. Hublard, op. cit. p. 39, quoting Dom Grenier.

[284] A. de Nore, Coutumes, mythes et traditions des provinces de France (Paris and Lyons,
1846), pp. 283 sq. A similar, though not identical, custom prevailed at Valenciennes (ibid.
p. 338).

[285] A. de Nore, op. cit. p. 302.

[286] Désiré Monnier, Traditions populaires comparées (Paris, 1854), pp. 191 sq.

[287] Laisnel de la Salle, Croyances et légendes du centre de la France (Paris, 1875). i. 35 sqq.

[288] Jules Lecoeur, Esquisses du Rocage Normand (Condé-sur-Noireau, 1887), ii.

[290] N. Hocker, op. cit. pp. 89 sq.; W. Mannhardt, l.c.

[291] F.J. Vonbun, Beiträge zur deutschen Mythologie (Chur, 1862), p. 20; W. Mannhardt, l.c.

[292] Ernst Meier, Deutsche Sagen, Sitten und Gebräuche aus Schwaben (Stuttgart, 1852), pp.
380 sqq.; Anton Birlinger, Volksthümliches aus Schwaben (Freiburg im Breisgau, 1861-1862),
ii. 56 sqq., 66 sqq.; Bavaria, Landes-und Volkskunde des Königreichs Bayern (Munich, 1860-1867),
ii. 2, pp. 838 sq.; F. Panzer, Beitrag zur deutschen Mythologie (Munich, 1848-1855), i. 211,
§ 232; W. Mannhardt, l.c. One of the popular German names for the first Sunday in Lent is White
Sunday, which is not to be confused with the first Sunday after Easter, which also goes by
the name of White Sunday (E. Meier, op. cit. p. 380; A. Birlinger, op. cit. ii. 56).

[293] H. Gaidoz, "Le dieu gaulois du soleil et le symbolisme de la roue," Revue Archéologique,
iii. série, iv. 207; W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, pp. 500 sq.

[295] W. Kolbe, Hessiche Volks-Sitten und Gebräuche*[2] (Marburg, 1888), p. 36.

[296] Adalbert Kuhn, Die Herabkunft des Feuers und des Göttertranks*[2] (Gütersloh, 1886),
p. 86, quoting Hocker, Des Mosellandes Geschichten, Sagen und Legenden (Trier, 1852), pp. 415
sqq. Compare W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, p. 501; and below, pp. 163 sq. Thus it appears that
the ceremony of rolling the fiery wheel down hill was observed twice a year at Konz, once on
the first Sunday in Lent, and once at Midsummer.

[297] H. Herzog, Schweizerische Volksfeste, Sitten und Gebräuche (Aarau, 1884), pp. 214-216;
E. Hoffmann-Krayer, "Fruchtbarkeitsriten im schweizerischen Volksbrauch," Schweizerisches Archiv
für Volkskunde, xi. (1907) pp. 247-249; id., Feste und Bräuche des Schweizervolkes (Zurich,
1913), pp. 135 sq.

[298] Theodor Vernaleken, Mythen und Bräuche des Volkes in Oesterreich (Vienna, 1859), pp.
293 sq.; W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, p. 498. See The Dying God, p. 239.

[300] L. Strackerjan, Aberglaube und Sagen aus dem Herzogthum Oldenburg (Oldenburg, 1867),
ii. 39, § 306; W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, p. 498.

[301] W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, p. 499.

[302] W. Mannhardt, op. cit. pp. 498 sq.

[303] W. Mannhardt, op. cit. p. 499. These candles were sometimes of prodigious size; in the
cathedrals of Norwich and Durham, for example, they reached almost to the roof, from which
they had to be lighted. Often they went by the name of the Judas Light or the Judas Candle;
and sometimes small waxen figures of Judas were hung on them. See H.J. Feasey, op. cit. pp.
193, 213 sqq. As to the ritual of the new fire at St. Peter's in Rome, see R. Chambers, The
Book of Days (London and Edinburgh, 1886), i. 421; and as to the early history of the rite
in the Catholic church, see Mgr. (1855) p. 31.

[313] The Popish Kingdome or reigne of Antichrist, written in Latin verse by Thomas Naogeorgus
and Englyshed by Barnabe Googe, 1570, edited by R.C. Hope (London, 1880), p. 52, recto. The
title of the original poem was Regnum Papisticum. The author, Thomas Kirchmeyer (Naogeorgus,
as he called himself), died in 1577. The book is a satire on the abuses and superstitions of
the Catholic Church. Only one perfect copy of Googe's translation is known to exist: it is
in the University Library at Cambridge. See Mr. R.C. Hope's introduction to his reprint of
this rare work, pp. xv. sq. The words, "Then Clappers ceasse, and belles are set againe at
libertée," refer to the custom in Catholic countries of silencing the church bells for two
days from noon on Maundy Thursday to noon on Easter Saturday and substituting for their music
the harsh clatter of wooden rattles. See R. Chambers, The Book of Days (London and Edinburgh,
1886), i, 412 sq. According to another account the church bells are silent from midnight on
the Wednesday preceding Maundy Thursday till matins on Easter Day. See W. Smith and S. Cheetham,
Dictionary of Christian Antiquities (London, 1875-1880), ii. 1161, referring to Ordo Roman. i. u.s.

[314] R. Chambers, The Book of Days (London and Edinburgh, 1886), i. 421.

[315] Miss Jessie L. Weston, "The Scoppio del Carro at Florence," Folk-lore, xvi. (1905) pp.
182-184; "Lo Scoppio del Carro," Resurrezione, Numero Unico del Sabato Santo (Florence, April,
1906), p. 1 (giving a picture of the car with its pyramid of fire-works). The latter paper
was kindly sent to me from Florence by my friend Professor W.J. Lewis. I have also received
a letter on the subject from Signor Carlo Placci, dated 4 (or 7) September, 1905, 1 Via Alfieri,
Firenze.

[316] Frederick Starr, "Holy Week in Mexico," The Journal of American Folk-lore, xii. (1899)
pp. 164 sq.; C. Boyson Taylor, "Easter in Many Lands," Everybody's Magazine, New York, 1903,
p. 293. I have to thank Mr. S.S. Cohen, of 1525 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, for sending me
a cutting from the latter magazine.

[317] K. von den Steinen, Unter den Naturvölkern Zentral-Brasiliens (Berlin, 1894), pp. 458
sq.; E. Montet, "Religion et Superstition dans l'Amérique du Sud," Revue de l'Histoire des
Religions, xxxii. (1895) p. 145.

[318] J.J. von Tschudi, Peru, Reiseskizzen aus den Jahren 1838-1842 (St. Gallen, 1846), ii. 189 sq.

[319] H. Candelier, Rio-Hacha et les Indiens Goajires (Paris, 1893), p. 85.

[320] Henry Maundrell, "A Journey from Aleppo to Jerusalem at Easter, A.D. 1697," in Bohn's
Early Travellers in Palestine (London, 1848), pp. 462-465; Mgr. (1876) pp. 518 sq.; Rev. C.T.
Wilson, Peasant Life in the Holy Land (London, 1906), pp. 45 sq.; P. Saint-yves, "Le Renouvellement
du Feu Sacré," Revue des Traditions Populaires, xxvii. (1912) pp. 449 sqq. The distribution
of the new fire in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre is the subject of a picture by Holman Hunt.
From some printed notes on the picture, with which Mrs. Holman Hunt was so kind as to furnish
me, it appears that the new fire is carried by horsemen to Bethlehem and Jaffa, and that a
Russian ship conveys it from Jaffa to Odessa, whence it is distributed all over the country.

[322] I have described the ceremony as I witnessed it at Athens, on April 13th, 1890. Compare
Folk-lore, i. (1890) p. 275. Having been honoured, like other strangers, with a place on the
platform, I did not myself detect Lucifer at work among the multitude below; I merely suspected
his insidious presence.

[323] W.H.D. Rouse, "Folk-lore from the Southern Sporades," Folk-lore, x. (1899) p. 178.

[324] Mrs. A.E. Gardner was so kind as to send me a photograph of a Theban Judas dangling from
a gallows and partially enveloped in smoke. The photograph was taken at Thebes during the Easter
celebration of 1891.

[325] G.F. Abbott, Macedonian Folklore (Cambridge, 1903) p. 37.

[326] Cirbied, "Mémoire sur la gouvernment et sur la religion des anciens Arméniens," Mémoires
publiées par la Société Royale des Antiquaires de France, ii. (1820) pp. 285-287; Manuk Abeghian,
Der armenische Volksglaube (Leipsic, 1899), pp. 72-74. The ceremony is said to be merely a
continuation of an old heathen festival which was held at the beginning of spring in honour
of the fire-god Mihr. A bonfire was made in a public place, and lamps kindled at it were kept
burning throughout the year in each of the fire-god's temples.

[327] The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, i. 32, ii. 243; Spirits of the Corn and of
the Wild, ii. 65, 74, 75, 78, 136.

[328] Garcilasso de la Vega, Royal Commentaries of the Yncas translated by (Sir) Clements R.
Markham (Hakluyt Society, London, 1869-1871), vol. ii. pp. 155-163. (Paris, 1840) p. 140. 136.

[330] Mrs. Matilda Coxe Stevenson, "The Zuñi Indians," Twenty-third Annual Report of the Bureau
of American Ethnology (Washington, 1904), pp. 108-141, 148-162, especially pp. 108, 109, 114
sq., 120 sq., 130 sq., 132, 148 sq., 157 sq. I have already described these ceremonies in Totemism
and Exogamy, iii. 237 sq. Among the Hopi (Moqui) Indians of Walpi, another pueblo village of
this region, new fire is ceremonially kindled by friction in November. See Jesse Walter Fewkes,
"The Tusayan New Fire Ceremony," Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, xxvi.
422-458; id., "The Group of Tusayan Ceremonials called Katcinas," Fifteenth Annual Report of
the Bureau of Ethnology (Washington, 1897), p. 263; id., "Hopi Katcinas," Twenty-first Annual
Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology (Washington, 1903), p. 24.

[331] Henry R. Schoolcraft, Notes on the Iroquois (Albany, 1847), p. 137. Schoolcraft did not
know the date of the ceremony, but he conjectured that it fell at the end of the Iroquois year,
which was a lunar year of twelve or thirteen months. He says: "That the close of the lunar
series should have been the period of putting out the fire, and the beginning of the next,
the time of relumination, from new fire, is so consonant to analogy in the tropical tribes,
as to be probable" (op. cit. p. 138).

[332] C.F. Hall, Life with the Esquimaux (London, 1864), ii. 323.

[333] Franz Boas, "The Eskimo of Baffin Land and Hudson Bay," Bulletin of the American Museum
of Natural, History, xv. Part i. (New York, 1901) p. 151.

[334] G. Nachtigal, Saharâ und Sûdân, iii. (Leipsic, 1889) p. 251.

[335] Major C. Percival, "Tropical Africa, on the Border Line of Mohamedan Civilization," The
Geographical Journal, xlii. (1868) p. 557; Les Missions Catholiques, iii. (1870) p. 270; Charles
New, Life, Wanderings, and Labours in Eastern Africa (London, 1873), p. 65; Jerome Becker,
La Vie en Afrique (Paris and Brussels, 1887), ii. 36; O. Baumann, Usambara und seine Nachbargebiele
(Berlin, 1891), pp. 55 sq.; C. Velten, Sitten und Gebräucheaer Suaheli (Göttingen,1903), pp.
342-344. (1899) pp. 130 sq. The name Benametapa (more correctly monomotapa) appears to have
been the regular title of the paramount chief, which the Portuguese took to be the name of
the country. The people over whom he ruled seem to have been the Bantu tribe of the Makalanga
in the neighbourhood of Sofala. See G. McCall Theal, Records of South-Eastern Africa, vii.
(1901) pp. 481-484. It is to their custom of annually extinguishing and relighting the fire
that Montaigne refers in his essay (i. 22, vol. i. p. 140 of Charpentier's edition), though
he mentions no names.

[338] Sir H.H. Johnson, British Central Africa (London, 1897), pp. 426, 439.

[339] W.H.R. Rivers, The Todas (London, 1906), pp. 290-292.

[340] Lieut. R. Stewart, "Notes on Northern Cachar," Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal
xxiv. (1855) p. 612.

[341] A. Bastian, Die Völker des östlichen Asien, ii. (Leipsic, 1866) pp. 49 sq.; Shway Yoe,
The Burman (London, 1882), ii. 325 sq.

[342] G. Schlegel, Uranographie Chinoise (The Hague and Leyden, 1875), pp. 139-143; C. Puini,
"Il fuoco nella tradizione degli antichi Cinesi," Giornale della Società Asiatica Italiana,
i. (1887) pp. 20-23; J.J.M. de Groot, Les Fétes annuellement célébrées à Émoui (Amoy) (Paris,
1886), i. 208 sqq. The notion that fire can be worn out with age meets us also in Brahman ritual.
See the Satapatha Brahmana, translated by Julius Eggeling, Part i. (Oxford, 1882) p. 230 (Sacred
Books of the East, vol. xii.).

[343] W.G. Aston, Shinto, The Way of the Gods (London, 1905), pp. 258 sq., compare p. 193.
The wands in question are sticks whittled near the top into a mass of adherent shavings; they
go by the name of kedzurikake ("part-shaved"), and resemble the sacred inao of the Aino. See
W.G. Aston, op. cit. p. 191; and as to the inao, see Spirits of the Corn and of the Wild, ii.
185, with note 2.

[344] Ovid, Fasti, iii. 82; Homer, Iliad, i. 590, sqq.

[345] Philostiatus, Heroica, xx. 24.

[346] Ovid, Fasti, iii. 143 sq.; Macrobius, Saturn, i. 12. 6.

[347] Festus, ed. C.O. Müller (Leipsic, 1839), p. 106, s.v. "Ignis." Plutarch describes a method
of rekindling the sacred fire by means of the sun's rays reflected from a hollow mirror (Numa,
9); but he seems to be referring to a Greek rather than to the Roman custom. The rule of celibacy
imposed on the Vestals, whose duty it was to relight the sacred fire as well as to preserve
it when it was once made, is perhaps explained by a superstition current among French peasants
that if a girl can blow up a smouldering candle into a flame she is a virgin, but that if she
fails to do so, she is not. See Jules Lecoeur, Esquisses du Bocage Normand (Condé-sur-Noireau,
1883-1887), ii. 27; B. Souché, Croyances, Présages et Traditions diverses (Niort, 1880), p.
12. At least it seems more likely that the rule sprang from a superstition of this sort than
from a simple calculation of expediency, as I formerly suggested (Journal of Philology, xiv.
(1885) p. 158). Compare The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings> ii. 234 sqq.

[348] Geoffrey Keating, D.D., The History of Ireland, translated from the original Gaelic,
and copiously annotated, by John O'Mahony (New York, 1857), p. 300, with the translator's note.
134 sqq.; id., Märkische Sagen und Märchen (Berlin, 1843), pp. 312 sq.; J.D.H. Temme, Die Volkssagen
der Altmark (Berlin, 1839), pp. 75 sq.; K. Lynker, Deutsche Sagen und Sitten in hessischen
Gauen*[2] (Cassel and Göttingen, 1860), p. 240; H. Pröhle, Harzbilder (Leipsic, 1855), p. 63;
R. Andree, Braunschweiger Volkskunde (Brunswick, 1896), pp. 240-242; W. Kolbe, Hessische Volks-Sitten
und Gebräuche (Marburg, 1888), pp. 44-47; F.A. Reimann, Deutsche Volksfeste (Weimar, 1839),
p. 37; "Sitten und Gebräuche in Duderstadt," Zeitschrift für deutsche Mythologie und Sitten-kunde,
ii. (1897) p. 76. Compare J.W. Wolf, Beiträge zur deutschen Mythologie (Göttingen, 1852-1857),
i. 74; J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 512. The two latter writers only state that before
the fires were kindled it was customary to hunt squirrels in the woods.

[357] A. Kuhn, l.c.; W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, p. 508. 956.

[359] See above, pp. 116 sq., 119. 357.

[363] F. Panzer, op. cit. ii. pp. 78 sq., §§ 114, 115. The customs observed at these places
and at Althenneberg are described together by W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, p. 505.

[365] Elard Hugo Meyer, Badisches Volksleben (Strasburg, 1900), pp. 97 sq.

[366] The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, ii. 349 sqq. See further below, vol. ii. pp.
298 sqq.

[367] J.W. Wolf, Beiträge sur deutschen Mythologie, i. 75 sq.; W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus,
p. 506.

[368] L. Lloyd, Peasant Life in Sweden (London, 1870), p. 228.

[369] W. Müller, Beiträge sur Volkskunde der Deutschen in Mahren (Vienna and Olmütz, 1893),
pp. 321, 397 sq. In Wagstadt, a town of Austrian Silesia, a boy in a red waistcoat used to
play the part of Judas on the Wednesday before Good Friday. He was chased from before the church
door by the other school children, who pursued him through the streets with shouts and the
noise of rattles and clappers till they reached a certain suburb, where they always caught
and beat him because he had betrayed the Redeemer. See Anton Peter, Volksthümliches aus österreichisch-Schlesien
(Troppau, 1865-1867), ii. 282 sq.; Paul Drechsler, Sitte, Brauch und Volksglaube in Schlesien
(Leipsic, 1903-1906), i. 77 sq.

[370] Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century, from the MSS. of John Ramsay, Esq.,
of Ochtertyre, edited by Alexander Allardyce (Edinburgh and London, 1888), ii. 439-445. As
to the tein-eigin or need-fire, see below, pp. 269 sqq. The etymology of the word Beltane is
uncertain; the popular derivation of the first part from the Phoenician Baal is absurd. See,
for example, John Graham Dalyell, The Darker Superstitions of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1834), pp.
176 sq.: "The recognition of the pagan divinity Baal, or Bel, the Sun, is discovered through
innumerable etymological sources. In the records of Scottish history, down to the sixteenth
or seventeenth centuries, multiplied prohibitions were issued from the fountains of ecclesiastical
ordinances, against kindling Bailfires, of which the origin cannot be mistaken. The festival
of this divinity was commemorated in Scotland until the latest date." Modern scholars are not
agreed as to the derivation of the name Beltane.

[371] "Bal-tein signifies the fire of Baal. Baal or Ball is the only word in Gaelic for a globe.
This festival was probably in honour of the sun, whose return, in his apparent annual course,
they celebrated, on account of his having such a visible influence, by his genial warmth, on
the productions of the earth. That the Caledonians paid a superstitious respect to the sun,
as was the practice among many other nations, is evident, not only by the sacrifice at Baltein,
but upon many other occasions. When a Highlander goes to bathe, or to drink waters out of a
consecrated fountain, he must always approach by going round the place, from east to west on
the south side, in imitation of the apparent diurnal motion of the sun. When the dead are laid
in the earth, the grave is approached by going round in the same manner. The bride is conducted
to her future spouse, in the presence of the minister, and the glass goes round a company,
in the course of the sun. This is called, in Gaelic, going round the right, or the lucky way.
The opposite course is the wrong, or the unlucky way. And if a person's meat or drink were
to affect the wind-pipe, or come against his breath, they instantly cry out deisheal! which
is an ejaculation praying that it may go by the right way" (Rev. J. Robertson, in Sir John
Sinclair's Statistical Account of Scotland, xi. 621 note). Compare J.G. Campbell, Superstitions
of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland (Glasgow, 1900), pp. 229 sq.: "The Right-hand Turn
(Deiseal).-- This was the most important of all the observances. The rule is 'Deiseal (i.e.
the right-hand turn) for everything,' and consists in doing all things with a motion corresponding
to the course of the sun, or from left to right. This is the manner in which screw-nails are
driven, and is common with many for no reason but its convenience. Old men in the Highlands
were very particular about it. The coffin was taken deiseal about the grave, when about to
be lowered; boats were turned to sea according to it, and drams are given to the present day
to a company. When putting a straw rope on a house or corn-stack, if the assistant went tuaitheal
(i.e. against the course of the sun), the old man was ready to come down and thrash him. On
coming to a house the visitor should go round it deiseal to secure luck in the object of his
visit. After milking a cow the dairy-maid should strike it deiseal with the shackle, saying
'out and home' (mach 'us dachaigh). This secures its safe return. The word is from deas, right-hand,
and iul, direction, and of itself contains no allusion to the sun." Compare M. Martin, "Description
of the Western Islands of Scotland," in J. Pinkerton's Voyages and Travels, iii. 612 sq.: "There
was an ancient custom in the island of Lewis, to make a fiery circle about the houses, corn,
cattle, etc., belonging to each particular family: a man carried fire in his right hand, and
went round, and it was called dessil, from the right hand, which in the ancient language is
called dess.... There is another way of the dessil, or carrying fire round about women before
they are churched, after child-bearing; and it is used likewise about children until they are
christened; both which are performed in the morning and at night. This is only practised now
by some of the ancient midwives: I enquired their reason for this custom, which I told them
was altogether unlawful; this disobliged them mightily, insomuch that they would give me no
satisfaction. But others, that were of a more agreeable temper, told me that fire-round was
an effectual means to preserve both the mother and the infant from the power of evil spirits,
who are ready at such times to do mischief, and sometimes carry away the infant; and when they
get them once in their possession, return them poor meagre skeletons; and these infants are
said to have voracious appetites, constantly craving for meat. In this case it was usual with
those who believed that their children were thus taken away, to dig a grave in the fields upon
quarter-day, and there to lay the fairy skeleton till next morning; at which time the parents
went to the place, where they doubted not to find their own child instead of this skeleton.
Some of the poorer sort of people in these islands retain the custom of performing these rounds
sun-ways about the persons of their benefactors three times, when they bless them, and wish
good success to all their enterprizes. Some are very careful when they set out to sea that
the boat be first rowed about sun-ways; and if this be neglected, they are afraid their voyage
may prove unfortunate." Probably the superstition was based entirely on the supposed luckiness
of the right hand, which accordingly, in making a circuit round an object, is kept towards
the centre. As to a supposed worship of the sun among the Scottish Highlanders, compare J.G.
Campbell, Witchcraft and Second Sight in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, p. 304: "Both
the sun (a Ghrian) and moon (a Ghealach) are feminine in Gaelic, and the names are simply descriptive
of their appearance. There is no trace of a Sun-God or Moon-Goddess." As to the etymology of
Beltane, see above, p. 149 note.

[372] Rev. James Robertson (Parish Minister of Callander), in Sir John Sinclair's Statistical
Account of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1791-1799), xi. 620 sq.

[373] Pennant's "Tour in Scotland," in John Pinkerton's Voyages and Travels (London, 1808-1814),
iii. 49.

[374] Rev. Dr. Thomas Bisset, in Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Account of Scotland, v. 84.

[375] Rev. Allan Stewart, in Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Account of Scotland, xv. 517 note.

[376] Rev. Walter Gregor, "Notes on Beltane Cakes," Folk-lore, vi. (1895) pp. 2 sq. The Beltane
cakes with the nine knobs on them remind us of the cakes with twelve knobs which the Athenians
offered to Cronus and other deities (see The Scapegoat, p. 351). The King of the Bean on Twelfth
Night was chosen by means of a cake, which was broken in as many pieces as there were persons
present, and the person who received the piece containing a bean or a coin became king.

[377] Shaw, in Pennant's "Tour in Scotland," printed in J. Pinkerton's Voyages and Travels,
iii. 136. The part of Scotland to which Shaw's description applies is what he calls the province
or country of Murray, extending from the river Spey on the east to the river Beauly on the
west, and south-west to Loch Lochy.

[379] A. Goodrich-Freer, "More Folklore from the Hebrides," Folk-lore, xiii. (1902) p. 41.
The St. Michael's cake (Strùthan na h'eill Micheil), referred to in the text, is described
as "the size of a quern" in circumference. "It is kneaded simply with water, and marked across
like a scone, dividing it into four equal parts, and then placed in front of the fire resting
on a quern. It is not polished with dry meal as is usual in making a cake, but when it is cooked
a thin coating of eggs (four in number), mixed with buttermilk, is spread first on one side,
then on the other, and it is put before the fire again. An earlier shape, still in use, which
tradition associates with the female sex, is that of a triangle with the corners cut off. A
strùhthan or strùhdhan (the word seems to be used for no other kind of cake) is made for each
member of the household, including servants and herds. When harvest is late, an early patch
of corn is mown on purpose for the strùthan"

[381] Jonathan Ceredig Davies, Folklore of West and Mid-Wales (Aberystwyth, 1911), p. 76.

[382] Joseph Train, An Historical and Statistical Account of the Isle of Man (Douglas, Isle
of Man, 1845), i. 314 sq.

[383] (Sir) John Rhys, Celtic Folk-lore, Welsh and Manx (Oxford, 1901), i. 309; id., "The Coligny
Calendar," Proceedings of the British Academy, 1909-1910, pp. 261 sq. See further The Magic
Art and the Evolution of Kings, ii. (1891) pp. 303 sq.

[386] P.W. Joyce, A Social History of Ancient Ireland (London, 1903), i. 290 sq., referring
to Kuno Meyer, Hibernia Minora, p. 49 and Glossary, 23.

[387] J.B. Bury, The Life of St. Patrick (London, 1905), pp. 104 sqq.

[388] Above, p. 147.

[389] Geoffrey Keating, D.D., The History of Ireland, translated by John O'Mahony (New York,
1857), pp. 300 sq.

[390] (Sir) John Rhys, "Manx Folk-lore and Superstition," Folk-lore, ii. Compare P.W. Joyce,
A Social History of Ancient Ireland (London, 1903), i. 291: "The custom of driving cattle through
fires against disease on the eve of the 1st of May, and on the eve of the 24th June (St. John's
Day), continued in Ireland, as well as in the Scottish Highlands, to a period within living
memory." In a footnote Mr. Joyce refers to Carmichael, Carmina Gadelica, ii. 340, for Scotland,
and adds, "I saw it done in Ireland."

[391] L. Lloyd, Peasant Life in Sweden (London, 1870), pp. 233 sq.

[392] Reinsberg-Düringsfeld, Fest-Kalender aus Böhmen (Prague, N.D.), pp. 211 sq.; Br. Jelínek,
"Materialien zur Vorgeschichte und Volkskunde Böhmens," Mittheilungen der anthropologischen
Gesellschaft in Wien, xxi. (1891) p. 13; Alois John, Sitte, Branch, und Volksglaube im deutschen
Westböhmen (Prague, 1905), p. 71.

[393] J.A.E. Köhler, Volksbrauch, Aberglauben, Sagen und andre alte Ueberlieferungen im Voigtlande
(Leipsic, 1867), p. 373. The superstitions relating to witches at this season are legion. For
instance, in Saxony and Thuringia any one who labours under a physical blemish can easily rid
himself of it by transferring it to the witches on Walpurgis Night. He has only to go out to
a cross-road, make three crosses on the blemish, and say, "In the name of God the Father, the
Son, and the Holy Ghost." Thus the blemish, whatever it may be, is left behind him at the cross-road,
and when the witches sweep by on their way to the Brocken, they must take it with them, and
it sticks to them henceforth. Moreover, three crosses chalked up on the doors of houses and
cattle-stalls on Walpurgis Night will effectually prevent any of the infernal crew from entering
and doing harm to man or beast. See E. Sommer, Sagen, Märchen und Gebräuche aus Sachsen und
Thüringen (Halle, 1846), pp. 148 sq.; Die gestriegelte Rockenphilosophie (Chemnitz, 1759), p. 116.

[394] See The Scapegoat, pp. 158 sqq.

[396] John Mitchell Kemble, The Saxons in England, New Edition (London, 1876), i. 361 sq.,
quoting "an ancient MS. written in England, and now in the Harleian Collection, No. 2345, fol.
50." The same explanations of the Midsummer fires and of the custom of trundling a burning
wheel on Midsummer Eve are given also by John Beleth, a writer of the twelfth century. See
his Rationale Divinorum Officiorum (appended to the Rationale Divinorum Officiorum of G. [W.]
Durandus, Lyons, 1584), p. 556 recto: "Solent porro hoc tempore [the Eve of St. John the Baptist]
ex veteri consuetudine mortuorum animalium ossa comburi, quod hujusmodi habet originem. Sunt
enim animalia, quae dracones appellamus.... Haec inquam animalia in aere volant, in aquis natant,
in terra ambulant. Sed quando in aere ad libidinem concitantur (quod fere fit) saepe ipsum
sperma vel in puteos, vel in aquas fluviales ejicunt ex quo lethalis sequitur annus. Adversus
haec ergo hujusmodi inventum est remedium, ut videlicet rogus ex ossibus construeretur, et
ita fumus hujusmodi animalia fugaret. Et quia istud maxime hoc tempore fiebat, idem etiam modo
ab omnibus observatur.... Consuetum item est hac vigilia ardentes deferri faculas quod Johannes
fuerit ardens lucerna, et qui vias Domini praeparaverit. Sed quod etiam rota vertatur hinc
esse putant quia in eum circulum tunc Sol descenderit ultra quem progredi nequit, a quo cogitur
paulatim descendere." The substance of the passage is repeated in other words by G. Durandus
(Wilh. Durantis), a writer of the thirteenth century, in his Rationale Divinorum Officiorum,
lib. vii. cap. 14 (p. 442 verso, ed. Lyons, 1584). Compare J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4]
i. 516.

With the notion that the air is poisoned at midsummer we may compare the popular belief that
it is similarly infected at an eclipse. Thus among the Esquimaux on the Lower Yukon river in
Alaska "it is believed that a subtle essence or unclean influence descends to the earth during
an eclipse, and if any of it is caught in utensils of any kind it will produce sickness. As
a result, immediately on the commencement of an eclipse, every woman turns bottom side up all
her pots, wooden buckets, and dishes" Similar notions and practices prevail among the peasantry
of southern Germany. Thus the Swabian peasants think that during an eclipse of the sun poison
falls on the earth; hence at such a time they will not sow, mow, gather fruit or eat it, they
bring the cattle into the stalls, and refrain from business of every kind. If the eclipse lasts
long, the people get very anxious, set a burning candle on the mantel-shelf of the stove, and
pray to be delivered from the danger. Similarly Bavarian peasants imagine that water is poisoned
during a solar eclipse (F. Panzer, Beitrag zur deutschen Mythologie, ii. 297); and Thuringian
bumpkins cover up the wells and bring the cattle home from pasture during an eclipse either
of the sun or of the moon; an eclipse is particularly poisonous when it happens to fall on
a Wednesday. As eclipses are commonly supposed by the ignorant to be caused by a monster attacking
the sun or moon (E.B. Tylor, Primitive Culture,*[2] London, 1873, i. 328 sqq.), we may surmise,
on the analogy of the explanation given of the Midsummer fires, that the unclean influence
which is thought to descend on the earth at such times is popularly attributed to seed discharged
by the monster or possibly by the sun or moon then in conjunction with each other. As to this
work see above, p. 125 note 1. Tessier witnessed the ceremony, 23rd June 1822 (not 1823, as
is sometimes stated). 327 sq. As to the burning discs at the spring festivals, see above, pp.
116 sq., 119, 143.

[401] Op. cit. ii. 260 sq., iii. 936, 956, iv. 2. p. 360.

[402] Op. cit. ii. 260.

[403] Op. cit. iv. i. p. 242. We have seen (p. 163) that in the sixteenth century these customs
and beliefs were common in Germany. It is also a German superstition that a house which contains
a brand from the midsummer bonfire will not be struck by lightning (J.W. Wolf, Beiträge, zur
deutschen Mythologie, i. p. 217, § 185). 549. 99-101.

[409] Elard Hugo Mayer, Badisches Volksleben (Strasburg, 1900), pp. 103 sq., 225 sq.

[410] W. von Schulenberg, in Verhandlungen der Berliner Gesellschaft für Anthropologie, Ethnologie
und Urgeschichte, Jahrgang 1897, pp. 494 sq. (bound up with Zeitschrift für Ethnologie, xxix.
1897). (1891) pp. 378 sq.; "Die Sommerwendfeier im St. Amarinthale," Der Urquell, N.F., i.
(1897) pp. 181 sqq. As to the use of St. John's wort at Midsummer, see below, vol. ii. pp.
54 sqq. 144 sqq. I have to thank Miss Anderson, of Barskimming, Mauchline, Ayrshire, for kindly
procuring the information for me from Mr. Heiberg.

The Blocksberg, where German as well as Norwegian witches gather for their great Sabbaths on
the Eve of May Day (Walpurgis Night) and Midsummer Eve, is commonly identified with the Brocken,
the highest peak of the Harz mountains. But in Mecklenburg, Pomerania, and probably elsewhere,
villages have their own local Blocksberg, which is generally a hill or open place in the neighbourhood;
a number of places in Pomerania go by the name of the Blocksberg. See J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie*[4]
ii. 878 sq.; Ulrich Jahn, Hexenwesen und Zauberei in Pommern (Breslau, 1886), pp. 4 sq.; id.,
Volkssagen aus Pommern und Rügen (Stettin, 1886), p. 329.

[420] L. Lloyd, Peasant Life in Sweden (London, 1870), pp. 259, 265.

[421] L. Lloyd, op. cit. pp. 261 sq. These springs are called "sacrificial fonts" (Offer källor)
and are "so named because in heathen times the limbs of the slaughtered victim, whether man
or beast, were here washed prior to immolation" (L. Lloyd, op. cit. p. 261).

[422] E. Hoffmann-Krayer, Feste und Bräuche des Schweizervolkes (Zurich, 1913), p. 164.

[424] I.V. Zingerle, op. cit. p. 159, §§ 1353, 1355, 1356; W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus, p. 513.

[429] Willibald Müller, Beiträge zur Volkskunde der Deutschen in Mähren (Vienna and Olmutz,
1893), pp. 263-265. 287.

[431] Th. Compare M. Kowalewsky, in Folk-lore, i. (1890) p. 467.

[433] W.R.S. Ralston, Songs of the Russian People, Second Edition (London, 1872), p. 240.

[434] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 519; W.R.S. Ralston, Songs of the Russian People
(London, 1872), pp. 240, 391.

[435] W.R.S. Ralston, op. cit. p. 240.

[436] W.R.S. Ralston, l.c.

[437] W.J.A. von Tettau und J.D.H. Temme, Die Volkssagen Ostpreussens, Litthauens und Westpreussens
(Berlin, 1837), p. 277.

[438] M. Töppen, Aberglauben aus Masuren*[2] (Danzig, 1867), p. 71.

[439] F.S. Krauss, "Altslavische Feuergewinnung," Globus, lix. (1891) p. 318.

[440] J.G. Kohl, Die deutsch-russischen Ostseeprovinzen (Dresden and Leipsic, 1841), i. 178-180,
ii. 24 sq. Ligho was an old heathen deity, whose joyous festival used to fall in spring.

[441] Ovid, Fasti, vi. 775 sqq.

[442] Friederich S. Krauss, Sitte und Brauch der Südslaven (Vienna, 1885), pp. 176 sq.

[443] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 519.

[444] H. von Wlislocki, Volksglaube und religiöser Brauch der Magyar (Münster i. W., 1893),
pp. 40-44.

[445] A. von Ipolyi, "Beiträge zur deutschen Mythologie aus Ungarn," Zeitschrift für deutsche
Mythologie und Sittenkunde, i. (1853) pp. 270 sq.

[446] J.G. Kohl, Die deutsch-russischen Ostseeprovinzen, ii. 268 sq.; F.J. Wiedemann, Aus dem
inneren und äusseren Leben der Ehsten (St. Petersburg, 1876), p. 362. The word which I have
translated "weeds" is in Esthonian kaste-heinad, in German Thaugras. Apparently it is the name
of a special kind of weed.

[447] Fr. Kreutzwald und H. Neus, Mythische und Magische Lieder der Ehsten (St. Petersburg,
1854), p. 62.

[448] J.B. Holzmayer, "Osiliana," Verhandlungen der gelehrten Estnischen Gesellschaft zu Dorpat,
vii.

[449] J.G. Kohl, Die deutsch-russischen Ostseeprovinzen, ii. 447 sq.

[450] J.G. Georgi, Beschreibung aller Nationen des russischen Reichs (St. Petersburg, 1776),
p. 36; August Freiherr von Haxthausen, Studien über die innere Zustände das Volksleben und
insbesondere die ländlichen Einrichtungen Russlands (Hanover, 1847), i. 446 sqq.

[452] It is notable that St. John is the only saint whose birthday the Church celebrates with
honours like those which she accords to the nativity of Christ. Compare Edmond Doutté, Magie
et Religion dans l'Afrique du Nord (Algiers, 1908), p. 571 note I.

[453] Bossuet, Oeuvres (Versailles, 1815-1819), vi. 276 ("Catéchisme du diocèse de Meaux").
His description of the superstitions is, in his own words, as follows: "Danser à l'entour du
feu, jouer, faire des festins, chanter des chansons deshonnètes, jeter des herbes par-dessus
le feu, en cueillir avant midi ou à jeun, en porter sur soi, les conserver le long de l'année,
garder des tisons ou des charbons du feu, et autres semblables." This and other evidence of
the custom of kindling Midsummer bonfires in France is cited by Ch. Cuissard in his tract Les
Feux de la Saint-Jean (Orleans, 1884).

[454] Ch. For an explanation of the custom of throwing a pebble into the fire, see below, p. 240.

[456] M. Quellien, quoted by Alexandre Bertrand, La Religion des Gaulois (Paris, 1897), pp. 116 sq.

[457] Collin de Plancy, Dictionnaire Infernal (Paris, 1825-1826), iii.

[459] Paul Sébillot, Coutumes populaires de la Haute-Bretagne (Paris, 1886), pp. 192-195. In
Upper Brittany these bonfires are called rieux or raviers. 219-224.

[463] This description is quoted by Madame Clément (Histoire des fêtes civites et religieuses,
etc., de la Belgique Méridionale, Avesnes, 1846, pp. 394-396); F. Liebrecht (Des Gervasius
von Tilbury Otia Imperialia, Hanover, 1856, pp. 209 sq.); and W. Mannhardt (Antike Wald und
Feldkulte, Berlin, 1877, pp. 323 sqq.) from the Magazin pittoresque, Paris, viii. (1840) pp.
287 sqq. A slightly condensed account is given, from the same source, by E. Cortet (Essai sur
les Fêtes Religieuses, pp. 221 sq.).

[464] Bazin, quoted by Breuil, in Mémoires de la Société d' Antiquaires de Picardie, viii.
(1845) p. 191 note.

[466] Correspondent quoted by A. Bertrand, op. cit. p. 407. In Perche the midsummer bonfires
were called marolles. The names of the bonfires vary with the place; among them are failles,
bourdifailles, bâs or baux, feulères or folières, and chavannes.

[473] La Bresse Louhannaise, Juin, 1906, p. 207. The writer adopts the absurd derivation of
jônée from Janus. Needless to say that our old friend Baal, Bel, or Belus figures prominently
in this and many other accounts of the European fire-festivals. 225.

[480] L. Pineau, Le Folk-lore du Poitou (Paris, 1892), pp. 499 sq. In Périgord the ashes of
the midsummer bonfire are searched for the hair of the Virgin (E. Cortet, Essai sur les Fêtes
Religieuses, p. 219). (1823) p. 110.

[487] Aubin-Louis Millin, Voyage dans les Départemens du Midi de la France (Paris, 1807-1811),
iii. 341 sq.

[488] Aubin-Louis Millin, op. cit. iii. 28.

[489] A. de Nore, op. cit. pp. 19 sq.; Bérenger-Féraud, Reminiscences populaires de la Provence
(Paris, 1885), pp. 135-141. The custom of drenching people on this occasion with water used
to prevail in Toulon, as well as in Marseilles and other towns in the south of France. The
water was squirted from syringes, poured on the heads of passers-by from windows, and so on.

[492] Le Baron de Reinsberg-Düringsfeld, op. cit. i. 439-442. 392; W. Mannhardt, Der Baumkultus.
p. 513.

[494] E. Monseur, Folklore Wallon (Brussels, N.D.), p. 130, §§ 1783, 1786, 1787.

[495] Joseph Strutt, The Sports and Pastimes of the People of England, New Edition, by W. Hone
(London, 1834), p. 359.

[496] John Stow, A Survay of London, edited by Henry Morley (London, N.D.), pp. 126 sq. Stow's
Survay was written in 1598. Both writers refer to Status Scholae Etonensis (A.D. 1560).

[498] John Aubrey, Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaisme (London, 1881), p. 26. Compare W. Hutchinson,
View of Northumberland, vol. ii. (Newcastle, 1778), Appendix, p. (15), under the head "Midsummer":--"It
is usual to raise fires on the tops of high hills and in the villages, and sport and danse
around them; this is of very remote antiquity, and the first cause lost in the distance of time."

[501] County Folk-lore, vol. iv. Northumberland, collected by M.C. Balfour (London, 1904),
p. 76, quoting E. Mackenzie, An Historical, Topographical, and Descriptive View of the County
of Northumberland, Second Edition (Newcastle, 1825), i. 217.

[504] The Denham Tracts, edited by J. Hardy (London, 1892-1895), ii. 342 sq., quoting Archælogia
Aeliana, N.S., vii.

[505] County Folk-lore, vol. vi. East Riding of Yorkshire, collected and edited by Mrs. Gutch
(London, 1912), p. 102.

[506] John Aubrey, Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaisme (London, 1881), p. 96, compare id.,
p. 26. Bonfires have been lit elsewhere on the Eve or the day of St. Peter. See above, pp.
194 sq. 196 sq., and below, pp. 199 sq., 202, 207.

[509] J. Brand, op. cit. i. 318, 319; T.F. Thiselton Dyer, British Popular Customs (London,
1876), p. 315.

[510] William Bottrell, Traditions and Hearthside Stories of West Cornwall (Penzance, 1870),
pp. 8 sq., 55 sq.; James Napier, Folk-lore, or Superstitious Beliefs in the West of Scotland
(Paisley, 1879), p. 173.

[514] Joseph Train, Account of the Isle of Man (Douglas, Isle of Man, 1845), ii. 120.

[517] J. Brand, op. cit. i. 305, quoting the author of the Comical Pilgrim's Pilgrimage into
Ireland (1723), p. 92.

[518] The Gentleman's Magazine, vol. lxv. (London, 1795) pp. 124 sq. The writer dates the festival
on June 21st, which is probably a mistake.

[519] T.F. Thiselton Dyer, British Popular Customs (London, 1876), pp. 321 sq., quoting the
Liverpool Mercury of June 29th, 1867.

[520] L.L. Duncan, "Further Notes from County Leitrim," Folk-lore, v. (1894) p. 193.

[521] A.C. Haddon, "A Batch of Irish Folk-lore," Folk-lore, iv. (1893) pp. 351, 359.

[522] G.H. Kinahan, "Notes on Irish Folk-lore," Folk-lore Record, iv. (1881) p. 97.

[523] Charlotte Elizabeth, Personal Recollections, quoted by Rev. Alexander Hislop, The Two
Babylons (Edinburgh, 1853), p. 53. As to the worship of wells in ancient Ireland, see P.W.
Joyce, A Social History of Ancient Ireland (London, 1903), i. 288 sq., 366 sqq. 145. Mr. W.
Warde Fowler writes that in Scotland "before the bonfires were kindled on midsummer eve, the
houses were decorated with foliage brought from the woods" (Roman Festivals of the Period of
the Republic, London, 1899, pp. 80 sq.). For his authority he refers to Chambers' Journal,
July, 1842.

[527] John Ramsay, of Ochtertyre, Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century, edited by
A. Allardyce (Edinburgh, 1888), ii. 436. 136.

[529] A. Macdonald, "Midsummer Bonfires," Folk-lore, xv. (1904) pp. 105 sq.

[530] From notes kindly furnished to me by the Rev. J.C. Higgins, parish minister of Tarbolton.
Mr. Higgins adds that he knows of no superstition connected with the fire, and no tradition
of its origin. I visited the scene of the bonfire in 1898, but, as Pausanias says (viii. 41.
6) in similar circumstances, "I did not happen to arrive at the season of the festival." Indeed
the snow was falling thick as I trudged to the village through the beautiful woods of "the
Castle o' Montgomery" immortalized by Burns. From a notice in The Scotsman of 26th June, 1906
(p. 8) it appears that the old custom was observed as usual that year.

[531] Thomas Moresinus, Papatus seu Depravatae Religionis Origo et Incrementum (Edinburgh,
1594), p. 56.

[532] Rev. Dr. George Lawrie, in Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Account of Scotland, iii.
(Edinburgh, 1792) p. 105.

[533] Letter from Dr. Otero Acevado of Madrid, published in Le Temps, September 1898. An extract
from the newspaper was sent me, but without mention of the day of the month when it appeared.
The fires on St. John's Eve in Spain are mentioned also by J. Brand, Popular Antiquities of
Great Britain, i. 317. Jacob Grimm inferred the custom from a passage in a romance (Deutsche
Mythologie,*[4] i. 518). The custom of washing or bathing on the morning of St. John's Day
is mentioned by the Spanish historian Diego Duran, Historia de las Indias de Nueva España,
edited by J.F. Ramirez (Mexico, 1867-1880), vol. ii. p. 293. To roll in the dew on the morning
of St. John's Day is a cure for diseases of the skin in Normandy, Périgord, and the Abruzzi,
as well as in Spain. See J. Lecoeur, Esquisses du Bocage Normand, ii.

[534] M. Longworth Dames and Mrs. E. Seemann, "Folklore of the Azores," Folk-lore, xiv. (1903)
pp. 142 sq.; Theophilo Braga, O Povo Portuguez nos seus Costumes, Crenças e Tradiçoes (Lisbon,
1885), ii. 304 sq., 307 sq.

[535] See below, pp. 234 sqq.

[536] Angelo de Gubernatis, Mythologie des Plantes (Paris, 1878-1882), i. 185 note 1. We may
compare the Provençal and Spanish customs of bathing and splashing water at Midsummer. See
above, pp. 193 sq., 208.

[540] Giuseppe Pitrè, Spettacoli e Feste Popolari Siciliane (Palermo, 1881), pp. 246, 308 sq.;
id., Usi e Costumi, Credenze e Pregiudizi del Popolo Siciliano (Palermo, 1889), pp. 146 sq.

[541] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 518.

[542] V. Busuttil, Holiday Customs in Malta, and Sports, Usages, Ceremonies, Omens, and Superstitions
of the Maltese People (Malta, 1894), pp. 56 sqq. The extract was kindly sent to me by Mr. H.W.
Underwood (letter dated 14th November, 1902, Birbeck Bank Chambers, Southampton Buildings,
Chancery Lane, W.C.). See Folk-lore, xiv. (1903) pp. 77 sq.

[543] W. R. Paton, in Folk-lore, ii. (1891) p. 128. The custom was reported to me when I was
in Greece in 1890 (Folk-lore, i. (1890) p. 520).

[544] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 519.

[545] G. Georgeakis et L. Pineau, Le Folk-lore de Lesbos (Paris, 1894), pp. 308 sq.

[546] W.R. Paton, in Folk-lore, vi. (1895) p. 94. From the stones cast into the fire omens
may perhaps be drawn, as in Scotland, Wales, and probably Brittany. See above, p. 183, and
below, pp. 230 sq., 239, 240.

[547] W.H.D. Rouse, "Folklore from the Southern Sporades," Folk-lore, x. (1899) p. 179.

[548] Lucy M.J. Garnett, The Women of Turkey and their Folk-lore, the Christian Women (London,
1890), p. 122; G.F. Abbott, Macedonian Folklore (Cambridge, 1903), p. 57.

[549] J.G. von Hahn, Albanesische Studien (Jena, 1854), i. 156.

[550] K. von den Steinen, Unter den Natur-Völkern Zentral-Brasiliens (Berlin, 1894), p. 561.

[551] Alcide d'Orbigny, Voyage dans l'Amérique Méridionale, ii. (Paris and Strasbourg, 1839-1843),
p. 420; D. Forbes, "On the Aymara Indians of Bolivia and Peru," Journal of the Ethnological
Society of London, ii. (1870) p. 235. See also Budgett Meakin, The Moors (London, 1902), p.
394: "The Berber festivals are mainly those of Islam, though a few traces of their predecessors
are observable. Of these the most noteworthy is Midsummer or St. John's Day, still celebrated
in a special manner, and styled El Ansarah. In the Rîf it is celebrated by the lighting of
bonfires only, but in other parts there is a special dish prepared of wheat, raisins, etc.,
resembling the frumenty consumed at the New Year. It is worthy of remark that the Old Style
Gregorian calendar is maintained among them, with corruptions of Latin names."

[557] See K. Vollers, in Dr. James Hastings's Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics iii. (Edinburgh,
1910) s.v. "Calendar (Muslim)," pp. 126 sq. However, L. Ideler held that even before the time
of Mohammed the Arab year was lunar and vague, and that intercalation was only employed in
order to fix the pilgrimage month in autumn, which, on account of the milder weather and the
abundance of food, is the best time for pilgrims to go to Mecca. See L. Ideler, Handbuch der
mathematischen und techischen Chronologie (Berlin, 1825-1826), ii. 495 sqq.

[558] E. Doutté, Magie et Religion dans l'Afrique du Nord, pp. 496, 509, 532, 543, 569. It
is somewhat remarkable that the tenth, not the first, day of the first month should be reckoned
New Year's Day.

[563] G. F. Abbott, Macedonian Folklore (Cambridge, 1903), pp. 60 sq.

[564] "Narrative of the Adventures of four Russian Sailors, who were cast in a storm upon the
uncultivated island of East Spitzbergen," translated from the German of P.L. Le Roy, in John
Pinkerton's Voyages and Travels (London, 1808-1814), i. 603. This passage is quoted from the
original by (Sir) Edward B. Tylor, Researches into the Early History of Mankind, Third Edition
(London, 1878), pp. 259 sq.

[565] See The Scapegoat, pp. 166 sq.

[566] E.K. Chambers, The Mediaeval Stage (Oxford, 1903), i. 110 sqq.

[567] In Eastern Europe to this day the great season for driving out the cattle to pasture
for the first time in spring is St. George's Day, the twenty-third of April, which is not far
removed from May Day. See The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, ii. 324 sqq. As to the
bisection of the Celtic year, see the old authority quoted by P.W. Joyce, The Social History
of Ancient Ireland (London, 1903), ii. 390: "The whole year was [originally] divided into two
parts--Summer from 1st May to 1st November, and Winter from 1st November to 1st May."

[568] See below, p. 225.

[569] Above, pp. 146 sqq.; The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, ii. 59 sqq. Hogmanay is
the popular Scotch name for the last day of the year. See Dr. J. Jamieson, Etymological Dictionary
of the Scottish Language, New Edition (Paisley, 1879-1882), ii.

[573] See Adonis, Attis, Osiris, Second Edition, pp. 309-318. As I have there pointed out,
the Catholic Church succeeded in altering the date of the festival by one day, but not in changing
the character of the festival. All Souls' Day is now the second instead of the first of November.
But we can hardly doubt that the Saints, who have taken possession of the first of November,
wrested it from the Souls of the Dead, the original proprietors. After all, the Saints are
only one particular class of the Souls of the Dead; so that the change which the Church effected,
no doubt for the purpose of disguising the heathen character of the festival, is less great
than appears at first sight.

[574] In Wales "it was firmly believed in former times that on All Hallows' Eve the spirit
of a departed person was to be seen at midnight on every cross-road and on every stile"

[575] E. J. Guthrie, Old Scottish Customs (London and Glasgow, 1885), p. 68.

[577] (Sir) Jolin Rhys, Celtic Heathendom (London and Edinburgh, 1888), p. 516.

[578] P.W. Joyce, A Social History of Ancient Ireland (London, 1903), i. 264 sq., ii. 556.

[579] (Sir) John Rhys, Celtic Heathendom, p. 516. Rogers, Social Life in Scotland (Edinburgh,
1884-1886), iii. 258-260.

[582] Douglas Hyde, Beside the Fire, a Collection of Irish Gaelic Folk Stories (London, 1890),
pp. 104, 105, 121-128.

[583] P.W. Joyce, Social History of Ancient Ireland, i. 229.

[585] (Sir) John Rhys, Celtic Heathendom, pp. 514 sq. In order to see the apparitions all you
had to do was to run thrice round the parish church and then peep through the key-hole of the door.

[586] Miss E. J. Guthrie, Old Scottish Customs (London and Glasgow, 1885), p. 75.

[588] Thomas Pennant, "Tour in Scotland, and Voyage to the Hebrides in 1772," in John Pinkerton's
Voyages and Travels, iii. (London, 1809) pp. 383 sq. In quoting the passage I have corrected
what seem to be two misprints. 437 sq. This account was written in the eighteenth century.

[594] J. G. Frazer, "Folk-lore at Balquhidder," The Folk-lore Journal, vi. (1888) p. 270. (Edinburgh,
1799) pp. 145 sq.

[597] A. Macdonald, "Some former Customs of the Royal Parish of Crathie, Scotland," Folk-lore,
xviii. (1907) p. 85. The writer adds: "In this way the 'faulds' were purged of evil spirits."
But it does not appear whether this expresses the belief of the people or only the interpretation
of the writer.

[600] R. Burns, l.c.; Rev. Walter Gregor, l.c.; Miss E.J. Guthrie, op. cit. pp. 70 sq.; Rev.
J.G. Campbell, op. cit. p. 286. According to the last of these writers, the winnowing had to
be done in the devil's name.

[603] R. Burns, l.c.; Rev. W. Gregor, l.c.; Miss E.J. Guthrie, op. cit. p. 72; Rev. J.G. Campbell,
op. cit. p. 286; A. Goodrich-Freer, "More Folklore from the Hebrides," Folklore, xiii. (1902)
p. 54.

[604] Rev. J.G. Campbell, op. cit. p. 283.

[605] Rev. J.G. Campbell, op. cit. pp. 283 sq.; A. Goodrich-Freer, l.c.

[606] Rev. J.G. Campbell, op. cit. p. 284. Where nuts were not to be had, peas were substituted.

[608] Rev. J.G. Campbell, op. cit. p. 284.

[609] Rev. J.G. Campbell, l.c. According to my recollection of Hallowe'en customs observed
in my boyhood at Helensburgh, in Dumbartonshire, another way was to stir the floating apples
and then drop a fork on them as they bobbed about in the water. Success consisted in pinning
one of the apples with the fork.

[610] R. Burns, l.c.; Rev. W. Gregor, op. cit. pp. 85 sq.; Miss E.J. Guthrie, op. cit. pp.
72 sq.; Rev. J.G. Campbell, op. cit. p. 287. It is the last of these writers who gives what
may be called the Trinitarian form of the divination. 315; J. Brand, Popular Antiquities, i.
390. The passage quoted in the text occurs in one of Hoare's notes on the Itinerary.

[617] See above, p. 183.

[618] See above, p. 231. (Dublin, 1786), pp. 459-461.

[623] H.J. Byrne, "All Hallows Eve and other Festivals in Connaught," Folk-lore, xviii.

[626] John Harland and T.T. Wilkinson, Lancashire Folk-lore (Manchester and London, 1882),
pp. 3 sq.

[627] J. Harland and T.T. Wilkinson, op. cit. p. 140.

[628] Annie Milner, in William Hone's Year Book (London, preface dated January, 1832), coll.
1276-1279 (letter dated June, 1831); R.T. Hampson, Medii Aevi Kalendarium (London, 1841), i.
365; T.F. Thiselton Dyer, British Popular Customs (London, 1876), p. 395.

[631] The evidence for the solar origin of Christmas is given in Adonis, Attis, Osiris, Second
Edition, pp. 254-256.

[632] For the various names (Yu-batch, Yu-block, Yule-log, etc.) see Francis Grose, Provincial
Glossary, New Edition (London, 1811), p. 141; Joseph Wright, The English Dialect Dictionary
(London, 1898-1905), vi. 593, s.v. "Yule."

[633] "I am pretty confident that the Yule block will be found, in its first use, to have been
only a counterpart of the Midsummer fires, made within doors because of the cold weather at
this winter solstice, as those in the hot season, at the summer one, are kindled in the open air."

[634] "Et arborem in nativitate domini ad festivum ignem suum adducendam esse dicebat" (quoted
by Jacob Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie, i. 522).

[635] Montanus, Die deutschen Volksfeste, Volksbrauche und deutscher Volksglaube (Iserlohn,
N.D.), p. 12. The Sieg and Lahn are two rivers of Central Germany, between Siegen and Marburg.
§ 319, pp. 103 sq.

[638] A. Kuhn, op. cit. ii. § 523, p. 187. 326 sq. Compare J.W. Wolf, Beiträgezur deutschen
Mythologie (Göttingen, 1852-1858), i. 117. 336 sq. The fire so kindled was called caco fuech.
According to the latter writer, in Saintonge it was the mistress of the house who blessed the
Yule log, sprinkling salt and holy water on it; in Poitou it was the eldest male who officiated.
The log was called the cosse de Nô.

[646] Laisnel de Salle, Croyances et Légendes du Centres de la France (Paris, 1875), i. 1-3.
291. The author speaks of the custom as still practised in out-of-the-way villages at the time
when he wrote. The usage of preserving the remains of the Yule-log (called tréfouet) in Normandy
is mentioned also by M'elle Amélie Bosquet, La Normandie Romanesque et Merveilleuse (Paris
and Rouen, 1845), p. 294.

[652] Lerouze, in Mémoires de l'Academie Celtique, iii.

[657] J. Brand, op. cit. i. 455; The Denham Tracts, edited by Dr. James Hardy (London, 1892-1895),
ii. 25 sq.

[658] Herrick, Hesperides, "Ceremonies for Christmasse":

"Come, bring with a noise, My merrie merrie boyes, The Christmas log to the firing;... With
the last yeeres brand Light the neiv block"

And, again, in his verses, "Ceremonies for Candlemasse Day":

"Kindle the Christmas brand, and then Till sunne-set let it burne; Which quencht, then lay
it up agen, Till Christmas next returne. Part must be kept, wherewith to teend The Christmas
log next yeare; And where 'tis safely kept, the fiend Can do no mischiefe there"

See The Works of Robert Herrick (Edinburgh, 1823), vol. ii. pp. 91, 124. From these latter
verses it seems that the Yule log was replaced on the fire on Candlemas (the second of February).

[659] Miss C. S. Burne and Miss G. F. Jackson, Shropshire Folk-lore (London, 1883), p. 398
note 2. See also below, pp. 257, 258, as to the Lincolnshire, Herefordshire, and Welsh practice.

[660] Francis Grose, Provincial Glossary, Second Edition (London, 1811), pp. 141 sq.; T.F.
Thiselton Dyer, British Popular Customs (London, 1876), p. 466.

[662] County Folk-lore, vol. ii.

[664] John Aubrey, Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaisme (London, 1881), p. 5.

[665] County Folk-lore, vol. v. Lincolnshire, collected by Mrs. Gutch and Mabel Peacock (London,
1908), p. 219. Elsewhere in Lincolnshire the Yule-log seems to have been called the Yule-clog
(op. cit. pp. 215, 216). The floor was of flags, an unusual thing in this part. Observing a
sort of roadway through the kitchen, and the flags much broken, I enquired what caused it,
and was told it was from the horses' hoofs drawing in the 'Christmas Brund.'"

[668] Mrs. Ella Mary Leather, The Folklore of Herefordshire (Hereford and London, 1912), p.
109. Compare Miss C.S. Burne, "Herefordshire Notes," The Folk-lore Journal, iv. (1886) p. 167.

[670] "In earlier ages, and even so late as towards the middle of the nineteenth century, the
Servian village organisation and the Servian agriculture had yet another distinguishing feature.
The dangers from wild beasts in old time, the want of security for life and property during
the Turkish rule, or rather misrule, the natural difficulties of the agriculture, more especially
the lack in agricultural labourers, induced the Servian peasants not to leave the parental
house but to remain together on the family's property. In the same yard, within the same fence,
one could see around the ancestral house a number of wooden huts which contained one or two
rooms, and were used as sleeping places for the sons, nephews and grandsons and their wives.
Men and women of three generations could be often seen living in that way together, and working
together the land which was considered as common property of the whole family. This expanded
family, remaining with all its branches together, and, so to say, under the same roof, working
together, dividing the fruits of their joint labours together, this family and an agricultural
association in one, was called Zadrooga (The Association). This combination of family and agricultural
association has morally, economically, socially, and politically rendered very important services
to the Servians. The headman or chief (called Stareshina) of such family association is generally
the oldest male member of the family. He is the administrator of the common property and director
of work. He is the executive chairman of the association. Generally he does not give any order
without having consulted all the grown-up male members of the Zadroega" (Chedo Mijatovich,
Servia and the Servians, London, 1908, pp. 237 sq.). As to the house-communities of the South
Slavs see further Og. Since Servia, freed from Turkish oppression, has become a well-regulated
European state, with laws borrowed from the codes of France and Germany, the old house-communities
have been rapidly disappearing (Chedo Mijatovich, op. cit. p. 240).

[671] Chedo Mijatovich, Servia and the Servians (London, 1908), pp. 98-105.

[672] Baron Rajacsich, Das Leben, die Sitten und Gebräuche der im Kaiserthume Oesterreich lebenden
Südslaven (Vienna, 1873), pp. 122-128. The Yule log (badnyak) is also known in Bulgaria, where
the women place it on the hearth on Christmas Eve. See A. Strausz, Die Bulgaren (Leipsic, 1898),
p. 361.

[674] M. Edith Durham, High Albania (London, 1909), p. 129.

[675] R.F. Kaindl, Die Huzulen (Vienna, 1894) p. 71.

[676] See above, pp. 248, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255, 256, 258. Similarly at Candlemas
people lighted candles in the churches, then took them home and kept them, and thought that
by lighting them at any time they could keep off thunder, storm, and tempest. See Barnabe Googe,
The Popish Kingdom (reprinted London, 1880), p. 48 verso.

[677] See above, pp. 248, 250, 251, 257, 258, 263.

[678] See The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, ii. 356 sqq.

[679] See above, pp. 248, 249, 250, 251, 264. 124, referring to Cregeen's Manx Dictionary, p. 67.

[683] R. Chambers, The Book of Days (London and Edinburgh, 1886), ii. 244 sq.; The Folk-lore
Journal, vii. (1889) pp. 11-14, 46. Miss Gordon Gumming and Miss Guthrie say that the burning
of the Clavie took place upon Yule Night; but this seems to be a mistake.

[684] Caesar, De bello Gallico, vii. 23.

[685] Hugh W. Young, F.S.A. Scot., Notes on the Ramparts of Burghead as revealed by recent
Excavations (Edinburgh, 1892), pp. 3 sqq.; Notes on further Excavations at Burghead (Edinburgh,
1893), pp. 7 sqq. These papers are reprinted from the Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries
of Scotland, vols. xxv., xxvii. Mr. Young concludes as follows: "It is proved that the fort
at Burghead was raised by a people skilled in engineering, who used axes and chisels of iron;
who shot balista stones over 20 lbs. in weight; and whose daily food was the bos longifrons.
A people who made paved roads, and sunk artesian wells, and used Roman beads and pins. The
riddle of Burghead should not now be very difficult to read." (Notes on further Excavations
at Burghead, pp. 14 sq.). For a loan of Mr. Young's pamphlets I am indebted to the kindness
of Sheriff-Substitute David.

[686] Robert Cowie, M.A., M.D., Shetland, Descriptive and Historical (Aberdeen, 1871), pp.
127 sq.; County Folk-lore, vol. iii. Orkney and Shetland Islands, collected by G.F. Black and
edited by Northcote W. Thomas (London, 1903), pp. 203 sq. A similar celebration, known as Up-helly-a,
takes place at Lerwick on the 29th of January, twenty-four days after Old Christmas. See The
Scapegoat, pp. 167-169. Perhaps the popular festival of Up-helly-a has absorbed some of the
features of the Christmas Eve celebration.

[687] Thomas Hyde, Historia Religionis veterum Persarum (Oxford, 1700), pp. 255-257.

[688] On the need-fire see Jacob Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie*[4] i. 501 sqq.; J.W. Wolf, Beiträge
zur deutschen Mythologie (Göttingen and Leipsic, 1852-1857), i. 116 sq., ii. Grimm would derive
the name need-fire (German, niedfyr, nodfyr, nodfeur, nothfeur) from need (German, noth), "necessity,"
so that the phrase need-fire would mean "a forced fire." This is the sense attached to it in
Lindenbrog's glossary on the capitularies, quoted by Grimm, op. cit. i. p. 502: "Eum ergo ignem
nodfeur et nodfyr, quasi necessarium ignem vocant" C.L. Rochholz would connect need with a
verb nieten "to churn," so that need-fire would mean "churned fire." 149 sq. This interpretion
is confirmed by the name ankenmilch bohren, which is given to the need-fire in some parts of
Switzerland. (1907) p. 245.

[689] "Illos sacrilegos ignes, quos niedfyr vocant," quoted by J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4]
i. 502; R. Andree, Braunschweiger Volkskunde (Brunswick, 1896), p. 312.

[690] Indiculus Superstitionum et Paganiarum, No. XV., "De igne fricato de ligno i.e. nodfyr."
A convenient edition of the Indiculus has been published with a commentary by H.A. Saupe (Leipsic,
1891).

[692] Bartholomäus Carrichter, Der Teutschen Speisskammer (Strasburg, 1614), Fol. pag. 148 sq.

[693] Joh. Reiskius, Untersuchung des Notfeuers (Frankfort and Leipsic, 1696), p. 51, quoted
by J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 502 sq.; R. Andree, Braunschweiger Volkskunde (Brunswick,
1896), p. 313.

[694] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie, *[4] i. 503 sq.

[695] J. Grimm, op. cit. i. 504.

[696] Adalbert Kuhn, Märkische Sagen und Märchen (Berlin, 1843), p. 369.

[697] Karl Bartsch, Sagen, Märchen und Gebräuche aus Mecklenburg (Vienna, 1879-1880), ii. 149-151.

[698] Carl und Theodor Colshorn, Märchen und Sagen (Hanover, 1854), pp. 234-236, from the description
of an eye-witness.

[699] Heinrich Pröhle, Harzbilder, Sitten und Gebräuche aus dem Harz-gebirge (Leipsic, 1855),
pp. 74 sq. The date of this need-fire is not given; probably it was about the middle of the
nineteenth century.

[700] R. Andree, Braunschweiger Volkskunde (Brunswick, 1896), pp. 313 sq.

[701] R. Andree, op. cit. pp. 314 sq.

[702] Montanus, Die deutschen Volks-feste, Volksbräuche und deutscher Volksglaube (Iserlohn,
N.D.), p. 127. 204. 250. (1907) pp. 244-246.

[708] E. Hoffmann-Krayer, op. cit. p. 246.

[709] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 505.

[710] "Old-time Survivals in remote Norwegian Dales," Folk-lore, xx. (1909) pp. 314, 322 sq.
This record of Norwegian folk-lore is translated from a little work Sundalen og Öksendalens
Beskrivelse written by Pastor Chr. Glükstad and published at Christiania "about twenty years ago."

[711] Prof. VI. Titelbach, "Das heilige Feuer bei den Balkanslaven," Inter-nationales Archiv
für Ethnographie, xiii. (1900) pp. 2 sq. We have seen (above, p. 220) that in Russia the need-fire
is, or used to be, annually kindled on the eighteenth of August. As to the need-fire in Bulgaria
see also below, pp. 284 sq.

[712] F.S. Krauss, "Altslavische Feuergewinnung," Globus, lix. (1891) p. 318, quoting P. Ljiebenov,
Baba Ega (Trnovo, 1887), p. 44.

[713] F.S. Krauss, op. cit. p. 319, quoting Wisla, vol. iv. pp. 1, 244 sqq.

[714] F.S. Krauss, op. cit. p. 318, quoting Oskar Kolberg, in Mazowsze, vol. iv. p. 138.

[715] F.S. Krauss, "Slavische Feuerbohrer," Globus, lix. (1891) p. 140. The evidence quoted
by Dr. Krauss is that of his father, who often told of his experience to his son.

[716] Prof. Vl. Titelbach, "Das heilige Feuer bei den Balkanslaven," Internationales Archiv
fur Ethnographie, xiii. (1900) p. 3.

[717] See below, vol. ii. pp. 168 sqq.

[718] Adolf Strausz, Die Bulgaren (Leipsic, 1898), pp. 194-199.

[719] Wissenschaftliche Mittheilungen aus Bosnien und der Hercegovina, redigirt von Moriz Hoernes,
iii. 50.

[723] Harry Speight, Tramps and Drives in the Craven Highlands (London, 1895), p. 162. Compare,
id., The Craven and North-West Yorkshire Highlands (London, 1892), pp. 206 sq.

[724] J.M. Kemble, The Saxons in England (London, 1849), i. 361 note. Compare J.T. Brockett,
Glossary of North Country Words, p. 147, quoted by Mrs. M.C. Balfour, l.c.: "Need-fire ...
an ignition produced by the friction of two pieces of dried wood. The vulgar opinion is, that
an angel strikes a tree, and that the fire is thereby obtained. Need-fire, I am told, is still
employed in the case of cattle infected with the murrain. They were formerly driven through
the smoke of a fire made of straw, etc." The first edition of Brockett's Glossary was published
in 1825. Stamfordham is in Northumberland. The vicar's testimony seems to have referred to
the first half of the nineteenth century.

[727] M. Martin, "Description of the Western Islands of Scotland," in J. Pinkerton's General
Collection of Voyages and Travels, iii. (London, 1809), p. 611. The second edition of Martin's
book, which Pinkerton reprints, was published at London in 1716. For John Ramsay's account
of the need-fire, see above, pp. 147 sq.

[728] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 506, referring to Miss Austin as his authority.

[729] As to the custom of sacrificing one of a plague-stricken herd or flock for the purpose
of saving the rest, see below, pp. 300 sqq.

[730] John Jamieson, Etymological Dictionary of the Scottish Language, New Edition, revised
by J. Longmuir and D. Donaldson, iii. (Paisley, 1880) pp. 349 sq., referring to "Agr. Surv.
Caithn., pp. 200, 201."

[731] R.C. Maclagan, "Sacred Fire," Folk-lore, ix. (1898) pp. 280 sq. As to the fire-drill
see The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, ii. 207 sqq. 340 sq.

[734] See above, pp. 154, 156, 157, 159 sq.

[735] Census of India, 1911, vol. xiv. Punjab, Part i. Report, by Pandit Harikishan Kaul (Lahore,
1912), p. 302. So in the north-east of Scotland "those who were born with their feet first
possessed great power to heal all kinds of sprains, lumbago, and rheumatism, either by rubbing
the affected part, or by trampling on it. The chief virtue lay in the feet. Those who came
into the world in this fashion often exercised their power to their own profit." The fumigation
of the byres with juniper is a charm against witchcraft. The "quarter-ill" is a disease of
cattle, which affects the animals only in one limb or quarter. "A very gross superstition is
observed by some people in Angus, as an antidote against this ill. A piece is cut out of the
thigh of one of the cattle that has died of it. This they hang up within the chimney, in order
to preserve the rest of the cattle from being infected. It is believed that as long as it hangs
there, it will prevent the disease from approaching the place. It is therefore carefully preserved;
and in case of the family removing, transported to the new farm, as one of their valuable effects.
It is handed down from one generation to another" (J. Jamieson, Etymological Dictionary of
the Scottish Language, revised by J. Longmuir and D. Donaldson, iii. 575, s.v. "Quarter-ill").
See further Rev. W. Gregor, op. cit. pp. 186 sq.: "The forelegs of one of the animals that
had died were cut off a little above the knee, and hung over the fire-place in the kitchen.
It was thought sufficient by some if they were placed over the door of the byre, in the 'crap
o' the wa'.' Sometimes the heart and part of the liver and lungs were cut out, and hung over
the fireplace instead of the fore-feet. Boiling them was at times substituted for hanging them
over the hearth." During an excursion of a few miles into the country, he observed a sort of
rigging attached to the chimney of a farmhouse well known to him, and asked what it meant.
The good wife told him that they had experienced great difficulty that year in rearing their
calves; the poor little creatures all died off, so they had taken the leg and thigh of one
of the dead calves, and hung it in a chimney by a rope, since which they had not lost another
calf." In the light of facts cited below (pp. 315 sqq.) we may conjecture that the intention
of cutting off the legs or cutting out the heart, liver, and lungs of the animals and hanging
them up or boiling them, is by means of homoeopathic magic to inflict corresponding injuries
on the witch who cast the fatal spell on the cattle.

[737] The Mirror, 24th June, 1826, quoted by J. M. Kemble, The Saxons in England (London, 1849),
i. 360 note 2.

[738] Leland L. Duncan, "Fairy Beliefs and other Folklore Notes from County Leitrim," Folk-lore,
vii. 207 sqq.

[740] For some examples of such extinctions, see The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings,
ii. 261 sqq., 267 sq.; Spirits of the Corn and of the Wild, i. 311, ii. 73 sq.; and above,
pp. 124 sq., 132-139. The reasons for extinguishing fires ceremonially appear to vary with
the occasion. Sometimes the motive seems to be a fear of burning or at least singeing a ghost,
who is hovering invisible in the air; sometimes it is apparently an idea that a fire is old
and tired with burning so long, and that it must be relieved of the fatiguing duty by a young
and vigorous flame.

[741] Above, pp. 147, 154. The same custom appears to have been observed in Ireland. See above,
p. 158.

[742] J.N.B. Hewitt, "New Fire among the Iroquois," The American Anthropologist, ii. (1889) p. 319.

[743] J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 507.

[744] See above, p. 290.

[745] William Hone, Every-day Book (London, preface dated 1827), i. coll. 853 sq. (June 24th),
quoting Hitchin's History of Cornwall. Compare J.G. Dalyell, The Darker Superstitions of Scotland
(Edinburgh, 1834), p. 184: "Here also maybe found a solution of that recent expedient so ignorantly
practised in the neighbouring kingdom, where one having lost many of his herd by witchcraft,
as he concluded, burnt a living calf to break the spell and preserve the remainder."

[750] R. N. Worth, History of Devonshire, Second Edition (London, 1886), p. 339. The diabolical
nature of the toad probably explains why people in Herefordshire think that if you wear a toad's
heart concealed about your person you can steal to your heart's content without being found
out. A suspected thief was overheard boasting, "They never catches me: and they never ooll
neither. I allus wears a toad's heart round my neck, I does." See Mrs. Ella M. Leather, in
Folk-lore, xxiv. (1913) p. 238.

[751] Above, p. 301. The writer does not say where this took place; probably it was in Cornwall
or Devonshire.

[754] County Folk-lore, Printed Extracts, No. 2, Suffolk, collected and edited by the Lady
Eveline Camilla Gurdon (London, 1893), pp. 190 sq., quoting Some Materials for the History
of Wherstead by F. Barham Zincke (Ipswich, 1887), p. 168.

[755] County Folk-lore, Printed Extracts, No. 2, Suffolk, p. 191, referring to Murray's Handbook
for Essex, Suffolk, etc., p. 109.

[756] (Sir) John Rhys, "Manx Folklore and Superstitions," Folk-lore, ii. (1891) pp. 300-302;
repeated in his Celtic Folk-lore, Welsh and Manx (Oxford, 1901), i. 306 sq. Sir John Rhys does
not doubt that the old woman saw, as she said, a live sheep being burnt on old May-day; but
he doubts whether it was done as a sacrifice. He adds: "I have failed to find anybody else
in Andreas or Bride, or indeed in the whole island, who will now confess to having ever heard
of the sheep sacrifice on old May-day." However, the evidence I have adduced of a custom of
burnt sacrifice among English rustics tends to confirm the old woman's statement, that the
burning of the live sheep which she witnessed was not an act of wanton cruelty but a sacrifice
per formed for the public good. See above, p. 303.

[758] Olaus Magnus, Historia de Gentium Septentrionalium Conditionibus, lib xviii. cap. 47,
p. 713 (ed. Bâle, 1567). 473 sq., referring to Boguet.

[760] Collin de Plancy, op. cit. iii. 473. See Paul Sébillot, Traditions et Superstitions de
la Haute-Bretagne (Paris, 1882), i. 292. It is a common belief that a man who has once been
transformed into a werewolf must remain a were-wolf for seven years unless blood is drawn from
him in his animal shape, upon which he at once recovers his human form and is delivered from
the bondage and misery of being a were-wolf. On the belief in were-wolves in general; see W.
Hertz, Der Werwolf (Stuttgart, 1862); J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie*[4] i. 915 sqq.; (Sir)
Edward B. Tylor, Primitive Culture[2] (London, 1873), i. 308 sqq.; R. Andree, Ethnographische
Parallelen und Vergleiche (Stuttgart, 1878), pp. 62-80. In North Germany it is believed that
a man can turn himself into a wolf by girding himself with a strap made out of a wolf's hide.
Some say that the strap must have nine, others say twelve, holes and a buckle; and that according
to the number of the hole through which the man inserts the tongue of the buckle will be the
length of time of his transformation. For example, if he puts the tongue of the buckle through
the first hole, he will be a wolf for one hour; if he puts it through the second, he will be
a wolf for two days; and so on, up to the last hole, which entails a transformation for a full
year. But by putting off the girdle the man can resume his human form. The time when were-wolves
are most about is the period of the Twelve Nights between Christmas and Epiphany; hence cautious
German farmers will not remove the dung from the cattle stalls at that season for fear of attracting
the were-wolves to the cattle. 491, 495. Down to the time of Elizabeth it was reported that
in the county of Tipperary certain men were annually turned into wolves. See W. Camden, Britain,
translated into English by Philemon Holland (London, 1610), "Ireland," p. 83.

[762] J.J.M. de Groot, The Religious System of China, v. (Leyden, 1907) p. 548.

[763] A. C. Kruijt, "De weerwolf bij de Toradja's van Midden-Celebes," Tijdschrift voor Indische
Taal- Landen Volkenkunde, xli. (1899) pp. 548-551, 557-560.

[764] A.C. Kruijt, op. cit. pp. 552 sq.

[765] A.C. Kruijt, op. cit. pp. 553. (1899) pp. 67-75; J. Knebel, "De Weertijger op Midden-Java,
den Javaan naverteld," Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde, xli. (1899) pp.
568-587; L.M.F. Plate, "Bijdrage tot de kennis van de lykanthropie bij de Sasaksche bevolking
in Oost-Lombok," Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde, liv. (1912) pp. 458-469;
G.A. Wilken, "Het animisme bij de volken van den Indischen Archipel," Verspreide Geschriften
(The Hague, 1912), iii. 25-30.

[766] Ernst Marno, Reisen im Gebiete des blauen und weissen Nil (Vienna, 1874), pp. 239 sq.

[767] Petronius, Sat. 61 sq. (pp. 40 sq., ed. Fr. Buecheler,*[3] Berlin, 1882). The Latin word
for a were-wolf (versipellis) is expressive: it means literally "skin-shifter," and is equally
appropriate whatever the particular animal may be into which the wizard transforms himself.
It is to be regretted that we have no such general term in English. The bright moonlight which
figures in some of these were-wolf stories is perhaps not a mere embellishment of the tale
but has its own significance; for in some places it is believed that the transformation of
were-wolves into their bestial shape takes place particularly at full moon. They became gulls,
cormorants, ravens, rats, mice, black sheep, swelling waves, whales, and very frequently cats
and hares." To this list of animals into which witches can turn themselves may be added horses,
dogs, wolves, foxes, pigs, owls, magpies, wild geese, ducks, serpents, toads, lizards, flies,
wasps, and butterflies. In his Topography of Ireland (chap. 19), a work completed in 1187 A.D.,
Giraldus Cambrensis records that "it has also been a frequent complaint, from old times as
well as in the present, that certain hags in Wales, as well as in Ireland and Scotland, changed
themselves into the shape of hares, that, sucking teats under this counterfeit form, they might
stealthily rob other people's milk." See The Historical Works of Giraldus Cambrensis, revised
and edited by Thomas Wright (London, 1887), p. 83.

[769] The Folk-lore Journal, iv. In Scotland the cut was known as "scoring above the breath."
It consisted of two incisions made crosswise on the witch's forehead, and was "confided in
all throughout Scotland as the most powerful counter-charm." See Sir Walter Scott, Letters
on Demonology and Witchcraft (London, 1884), p. 272; J.G. Dalyell, The Darker Superstitions
of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1834), pp. 531 sq.; M.M. Banks, "Scoring a Witch above the Breath,"
Folk-lore, xxiii. (1912) p. 490.

[771] M. Abeghian, Der armenische Volksglaube (Leipsic, 1899), p. 117. The wolf-skin is supposed
to fall down from heaven and to return to heaven after seven years, if the were-wolf has not
been delivered from her unhappy state in the meantime by the burning of the skin. Some think
that the sixpence should be crooked.

[773] J.G. Campbell, op. cit. p. 30.

[774] J.G. Campbell, op. cit. p. 33.

[776] Joseph Glanvil, Saducismus Triumphatus or Full and Plain Evidence concerning Witches
and Apparitions (London, 1681), Part ii. p. 205.

[777] Rev. J.C. Atkinson, Forty Years in a Moorland Parish (London, 1891), pp. 82-84.

[779] Leland L. Duncan, "Folk-lore Gleanings from County Leitrim," Folklore, iv.

[783] E. Meier, op. cit. pp. 191 sq., No. 215. A similar story of the shoeing of a woman in
the shape of a horse is reported from Silesia. See R. Kühnau, Schlesische Sagen (Berlin, 1910-1913),
iii. pp. 27 sq., No. 1380. Compare id., iii. pp. 28 sq., No. 1381. In Wales, also, "the possibility
of injuring or marking the witch in her assumed shape so deeply that the bruise remained a
mark on her in her natural form was a common belief"

[789] L. Strackerjan, op. cit. i. p. 360, § 238e.

[790] "The 'Witch-burning' at Clonmell," Folk-lore, vi. (1895) pp. 373-384. The account there
printed is based on the reports of the judicial proceedings before the magistrates and the
judge, which were published in The Irish Times for March 26th, 27th, and 28th, April 2nd, 3rd,
6th, and 8th, and July 6th, 1895. In this passage "quick" is used in the old sense of "living,"
as in the phrase "the quick and the dead." Nois is "nose," hoill is "hole," quhilk (whilk)
is "which," and be is "by."

[792] J.G. Dalyell, op. cit. p. 186. Bestiall=animals; seik=sick; calling=driving; guidis=cattle.
446 sq. As to the custom of cutting off the leg of a diseased animal and hanging it up in the
house, see above, p. 296, note 1.

[794] (Sir) Arthur Mitchell, A.M., M.D., On Various Superstitions in the North-West Highlands
and Islands of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1862), p. 12 (reprinted from the Proceedings of the Society
of Antiquaries of Scotland, vol. iv.). Part i. Jan. 1902. The wicken-tree is the mountain-ash
or rowan free, which is a very efficient, or at all events a very popular protective against
witchcraft. See County Folk-lore, vol. v. Lincolnshire, pp. 26 sq., 98 sq.; Mabel Peacock,
"The Folklore of Lincolnshire," Folk-lore, xii. See further The Scapegoat, pp. 266 sq.

CHAPTER V

THE INTERPRETATION OF THE FIRE-FESTIVALS

§ 1.

[Two explanations suggested of the fire-festivals. In short, what theory underlay and prompted
the practice of these customs? For that the institution of the festivals was the outcome of
a definite train of reasoning may be taken for granted; the view that primitive man acted first
and invented his reasons to suit his actions afterwards, is not borne out by what we know of
his nearest living representatives, the savage and the peasant. Now it can be shewn that in
order to increase the celestial source of heat at midwinter savages resort to a practice analogous
to that of our Yule log, if the kindling of the Yule log was originally a magical rite intended
to rekindle the sun. In the southern hemisphere, where the order of the seasons is the reverse
of ours, the rising of Sirius or the Dog Star in July marks the season of the greatest cold
instead of, as with us, the greatest heat; and just as the civilized ancients ascribed the
torrid heat of midsummer to that brilliant star,[804] so the modern savage of South Africa
attributes to it the piercing cold of midwinter and seeks to mitigate its rigour by warming
up the chilly star with the genial heat of the sun. How he does so may be best described in
his own words as follows:--[805]

"The Bushmen perceive Canopus, they say to a child: 'Give me yonder piece of wood, that I may
put the end of it in the fire, that I may point it burning towards grandmother, for grandmother
carries Bushman rice; grandmother shall make a little warmth for us; for she coldly comes out;
the sun[806] shall warm grandmother's eye for us.' Sirius comes out; the people call out to
one another: 'Sirius comes yonder;' they say to one another: 'Ye must burn a stick for us towards
Sirius.' They say to one another: 'Who was it who saw Sirius?' One man says to the other: 'Our
brother saw Sirius,' The other man says to him: 'I saw Sirius.' The other man says to him:
'I wish thee to burn a stick for us towards Sirius; that the sun may shining come out for us;
that Sirius may not coldly come out' The other man (the one who saw Sirius) says to his son:
'Bring me the small piece of wood yonder, that I may put the end of it in the fire, that I
may burn it towards grandmother; that grandmother may ascend the sky, like the other one, Canopus.'
The child brings him the piece of wood, he (the father) holds the end of it in the fire. He
points it burning towards Sirius; he says that Sirius shall twinkle like Canopus. He sings;
he sings about Canopus, he sings about Sirius; he points to them with fire,[807] that they
may twinkle like each other. He throws fire at them. He covers himself up entirely (including
his head) in his kaross and lies down. He arises, he sits down; while he does not again lie
down; because he feels that he has worked, putting Sirius into the sun's warmth; so that Sirius
may warmly come out. The women go out early to seek for Bushman rice; they walk, sunning their
shoulder blades."[808] What the Bushmen thus do to temper the cold of midwinter in the southern
hemisphere by blowing up the celestial fires may have been done by our rude forefathers at
the corresponding season in the northern hemisphere.

§ 3. But Europe is not the only part of the world where ceremonies of this sort have been performed;
elsewhere the passage through the flames or smoke or over the glowing embers of a bonfire,
which is the central feature of most of the rites, has been employed as a cure or a preventive
of various ills. We have seen that the midsummer ritual of fire in Morocco is practically identical
with that of our European peasantry; and customs more or less similar have been observed by
many races in various parts of the world. A consideration of some of them may help us to decide
between the conflicting claims of the two rival theories, which explain the ceremonies as sun-charms
or purifications respectively.

Notes:

[796] Above, pp. 116 sq., 119, 143, 165, 166, 168 sq., 172.

[797] Above, pp. 116, 117 sq., 119, 141, 143, 161, 162 sq., 163 sq., 173, 191, 201.

[800] E. Mogk, "Sitten und Gebräuche im Kreislauf des Jahres," in R. Wuttke's Sächsische Volkskunde*[2]
(Dresden, 1901), pp. 310 sq.

[801] The Golden Bough, Second Edition (London, 1900), iii. 312: "The custom of leaping over
the fire and driving cattle through it may be intended, on the one hand, to secure for man
and beast a share of the vital energy of the sun, and, on the other hand, to purge them of
all evil influences; for to the primitive mind fire is the most powerful of all purificatory
agents"; and again, id. iii. 314: "It is quite possible that in these customs the idea of the
quickening power of fire may be combined with the conception of it as a purgative agent for
the expulsion or destruction of evil beings, such as witches and the vermin that destroy the
fruits of the earth. Certainly the fires are often interpreted in the latter way by the persons
who light them; and this purgative use of the element comes out very prominently, as we have
seen, in the general expulsion of demons from towns and villages. But in the present class
of cases this aspect of fire may be secondary, if indeed it is more than a later misinterpretation
of the custom."

[802] The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, i. 311 sqq.

[803] See Adonis, Attis, Osiris, Second Edition, pp. 254 sqq.

[804] Manilius, Astronom. v. 206 sqq.:

"Cum vero in vastos surget Nemeaeus
     hiatus,
   Exoriturque Canis, latratque Canicula
     flammas
   Et rabit igne suo geminatque incendia
     solis,
   Qua subdente facem terris radiosque
     movente" etc.

Pliny, Naturalis Historic xviii. 269 sq.: "Exoritur dein post triduum fere ubique confessum
inter omnes sidus ingens quod canis ortum vocamus, sole partem primam leonis ingresso. Hoc
fit post solstitium XXIII. die. Sentiunt id maria et terrae, multae vero et ferae, ut suis
locis diximus. Neque est minor ei veneratio quam descriptis in deos stellis accendique solem
et magnam aestus obtinet causam."

[805] Specimens of Bushman Folklore collected by the late W.H.I. Bleek, Ph.D., and L.C. Lloyd
(London, 1911), pp. 339, 341. In quoting the passage I have omitted the brackets which the
editors print for the purpose of indicating the words which are implied, but not expressed,
in the original Bushman text.

[806] "The sun is a little warm, when this star appears in winter" (Editors of Specimens of
Bushman Folklore).

[807] "With the stick that he had held in the fire, moving it up and down quickly" (Editors).

[808] "They take one arm out of the kaross, thereby exposing one shoulder blade to the sun"
(Editors).

[809] See above, pp. 161, 162 sq. On the wheel as an emblem of the sun, see J. Grimm, Deutsche
Mythologie,*[4] ii. It is a popular Armenian idea that "the body of the sun has the shape of
the wheel of a water-mill; it revolves and moves forward. As drops of water sputter from the
mill-wheel, so sunbeams shoot out from the spokes of the sun-wheel" (M. Abeghian, Der armenische
Volksglaube, Leipsic, 1899, p. 41). In the old Mexican picture-books the usual representation
of the sun is "a wheel, often brilliant with many colours, the rays of which are so many bloodstained
tongues, by means of which the Sun receives his nourishment" (E.J. Payne, History of the New
World called America, Oxford, 1892, i. 521).

[810] Above, p. 169. 57, 97; W. Mannhardt, Baumkultus, p. 510.

[812] Compare J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 521; J.W. Wolf, Beiträge zur deutschen
Mythologie (Gottingen und Leipsic, 1852-1857), ii. Lindenbrog in his Glossary on the Capitularies
(quoted by J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] i. 502) expressly says: "The rustics in many
parts of Germany, particularly on the festival of St. John the Baptist, wrench a stake from
a fence, wind a rope round it, and pull it to and fro till it catches fire. This fire they
carefully feed with straw and dry sticks and scatter the ashes over the vegetable gardens,
foolishly and superstitiously imagining that in this way the caterpillar can be kept off. They
call such a fire nodfeur or nodfyr, that is to say need-fire."

[813] Above, pp. 144 sq., 147 sq., 155, 169 sq., 175, 177, 179.

[816] Above, p. 179.

[818] Above, p. 177.

[819] Above, pp. 187 sq.

[820] Above, pp. 279 sq.

[821] Above, p. 188.

[822] Above, p. 159.

[823] Above, p. 116.

[824] Above, p. 201.

[825] L. Decle, Three Years in Savage Africa (London, 1898), pp. 160 sq.

[826] Rev. J. Shooter, The Kafirs of Natal and the Zulu Country (London, 1857), p. 18.

[827] Above, pp. 140, 142.

[828] Above, pp. 119, 165, 166, 173, 203.

[829] Above, p. 140.

[830] Above, p. 121.

[831] Above, pp. 141, 170, 190, 203, 248, 250, 264.

[832] Above, p. 251.

[833] Above, pp. 119, 165, 166, 168, 173, 174.

[834] Above, pp. 118, 163 sq.

[835] Above, p. 201.

[836] Above, p. 203.

[837] Above, p. 250.

[838] Above, pp. 251, 262, 263, 264.

[839] Above, p. 112.

[840] Above, p. 141.

[841] Above, p. 214.

[842] Above, p. 204.

[843] Above, p. 194.

[844] Above, p. 185, 189; compare p. 174.

[845] Above, p. 166.

[846] Above, pp. 249, 250.

[847] Above, pp. 107, 109, 111, 119; compare pp. 116, 192, 193.

[848] Above, p. 115.

[849] Above, p. 180.

[850] Above, pp. 113, 142, 170, 233. The torches of Demeter, which figure so largely in her
myth and on her monuments, are perhaps to be explained by this custom. See Spirits of the Corn
and of the Wild, i. 57. W. Mannhardt thought (Baumkultus, p. 536) that the torches in the modern
European customs are imitations of lightning. At some of their ceremonies the Indians of North-West
America imitate lightning by means of pitch-wood torches which are flashed through the roof
of the house. See J.G. Swan, quoted by Franz Boas, "The Social Organization and the Secret
Societies of the Kwakiutl Indians," Report of the United States National Museum for 1895 (Washington,
1897), p. 639.

[851] Above, p. 203. 126-129. See The Scapegoat, pp. 316 sq.

[853] Br. Jelínek, "Materialen zur Vorgeschichte mid Volkskunde Böhmens," Mittheilungen der
anthropolog. Gesellschaft in Wien xxi. (1891) p. 13 note.

[854] Mrs. Bishop, Korea and her Neighbours (London, 1898), ii. 56 sq.

[855] Above, pp. 190 sq.

[856] Above, pp. 178, 205, 206.

[857] See The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, i. 311 sqq.

[858] Above, pp. 108, 109, 116, 118 sq., 121, 148, 154, 156, 157, 159, 160, 170, 171, 174,
175, 176, 180, 183, 185, 188, 232 sq., 245, 252, 253, 280, 292, 293, 295, 297. For more evidence
of the use of fire to burn or expel witches on certain days of the year, see The Scapegoat
pp. 158 sqq. Less often the fires are thought to burn or repel evil spirits and vampyres. See
above, pp. 146, 170, 172, 202, 252, 282, 285. Sometimes the purpose of the fires is to drive
away dragons (above, pp. 161, 195).

[859] Above, pp. 107, 116, 118 sq., 159.

[860] "In short, of all the ills incident to the life of man, none are so formidable as witchcraft,
before the combined influence of which, to use the language of an honest man who had himself
severely suffered from its effects, the great laird of Grant himself could not stand them if
they should fairly yoke upon him" "Every misfortune and calamity that took place in the parish,
such as ill-health, the death of friends, the loss of stock, and the failure of crops; yea
to such a length did they carry their superstition, that even the inclemency of the seasons,
were attributed to the influence of certain old women who were supposed to be in league, and
had dealings with the Devil. These the common people thought had the power and too often the
inclination to injure their property, and torment their persons" "The county of Salop is no
exception to the rule of superstition. The late vicar of a parish on the Clee Hills, startled
to find that his parishioners still believed in witchcraft, once proposed to preach a sermon
against it, but he was dissuaded from doing so by the parish schoolmaster, who assured him
that the belief was so deeply rooted in the people's minds that he would be more likely to
alienate them from the Church than to weaken their faith in witchcraft" "Wherever a man or
any living creature falls sick, or a misfortune of any kind happens, without any natural cause
being discoverable or rather lying on the surface, there in all probability witchcraft is at
work. The sudden stiffness in the small of the back, which few people can account for at the
time, is therefore called a 'witch-shot' and is really ascribed to witchcraft" What Sir Walter
Scott said less than a hundred years ago is probably still true: "The remains of the superstition
sometimes occur; there can be no doubt that the vulgar are still addicted to the custom of
scoring above the breath (as it is termed), and other counter-spells, evincing that the belief
in witchcraft is only asleep, and might in remote corners be again awakened to deeds of blood"
(Letters on Demonology and Witchcraft, London, 1884, p. 272). Compare L. Strackerjan, op. cit.
i. p. 340, § 221: "The great power, the malicious wickedness of the witches, cause them to
be feared and hated by everybody. The hatred goes so far that still at the present day you
may hear it said right out that it is a pity burning has gone out of fashion, for the evil
crew deserve nothing else. Perhaps the hatred might find vent yet more openly, if the fear
were not so great."

[861] For some evidence, see The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings; ii. 52-55, 330 sqq.
It is a popular belief, universally diffused in Germany, that cattle-plagues are caused by
witches (A. Wuttke, Der deutsche Volksaberglaube,*[2] Berlin, 1869, p. 149 § 216).

[862] The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings, ii. 330 sqq.

[863] Above, pp. 282, 284 sq.

[864] Above, pp. 118, 121, 144, 145, 176.

[865] Above, pp. 121, 122, 124, 140 sq., 145, 146, 174, 176, 183, 184, 187, 188, 190, 191,
192, 249, 250, 252, 253, 254, 258.

[866] J. Grimm, Deutsch Mythologie,*[4] ii.

[867] Above, pp. 108, 121, 140, 146, 165, 183, 188, 196, 250, 255, 256, 258.

[868] Above, pp. 107, 195 sq.

[869] Above, pp. 162, 163, 166, 171, 174.

[870] A. Wuttke, Der deutsche Volksaberglaube*[2] (Berlin, 1869), p. 351, § 395.

[871] Above, pp. 165, 168, 189, compare 190. See above, p. 343 note.

[873] In the Ammerland, a district of Oldenburg, you may sometimes see an old cart-wheel fixed
over the principal door or on the gable of a house; it serves as a charm against witchcraft
and is especially intended to protect the cattle as they are driven out and in. Can this use
of a wheel as a talisman against witchcraft be derived from the practice of rolling fiery wheels
down hill for a similar purpose?

[874] F.S. Krauss, Volksglaube und religiöser Brauch der Südslaven (Münster i. W., 1890), pp.
118 sq.

[875] In German such spells are called Nestelknüpfen; in French, nouer l'aiguilette. See J.
Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie,*[4] ii.

