In my public experiments in lifting, when I have not used the iron weights cast for the purpose,
I have, as a convenient substitute, used kegs of nails. It recently occurred to me, that, if,
instead of these kegs, I could employ a number of men selected from the audience, the spectacle
would he still more satisfactory to the skeptical. Accordingly I contrived an apparatus by
means of which I have been able to present this convincing proof of the actual weight lifted.
I introduced it after my lecture at the Town-Hall in Brighton, Massachusetts, on the 9th of
October, 1861; and the following account of the result appeared in one of the city papers:--

"Standing upon a staging at an elevation of about eight or ten feet from the floor, the Doctor
lifted and sustained, for a considerable time and without apparent difficulty, a platform suspended
beneath him on which stood twelve gentlemen, all heavier individually than the Doctor himself,
and weighing, inclusive of the entire apparatus lifted with them, nearly nineteen hundred pounds
avoirdupois. In the performance of this tremendous feat, Dr. W. employed neither straps, bands,
nor girdle,--nothing in short but a stout oaken stick fitting across his shoulders, and having
attached to it a couple of rather formidable-looking chains. At his request, a committee, appointed
by the audience, and furnished with one of Fairbanks's scales, superintended all the experiments."

The exact weight lifted on this occasion was eighteen hundred and thirty-six pounds. A few
evenings after, I lifted, in the same way, in Lynn, eighteen hundred and sixty; in Brookline,
eighteen hundred and ninety; in Medford, nineteen hundred and thirty-four; in Maiden, nineteen
hundred and two; and in Charlestown, nineteen hundred and forty.

As my strength is still increasing in an undiminished ratio, I am fairly beginning to wonder
where the limit will be; and the old adage of the camel's back and the last feather occasionally
suggests itself. I have fixed three thousand pounds as my ne plus ultra.

       *       *       *       *       *

FREMONT'S HUNDRED DAYS IN MISSOURI.

I.

The narrative we propose to give of events in Missouri is not intended to be a defence of General
Fremont, nor in any respect an answer to the charges which have been made against him. Our
purpose is the more humble one of presenting a hasty sketch of the expedition to Springfield,
confining ourselves almost entirely to the incidents which came under the observation of an
officer of the General's staff.

General Fremont was in command of the Western Department precisely One Hundred Days. He assumed
the command at the time when the army with which Lyon had captured Camp Jackson and won the
Battle of Booneville was on the point of dissolution. The enemy, knowing that the term for
which our soldiers had been enlisted was near its close, began offensive movements along their
whole line. Cairo, Bird's Point, Ironton, and Springfield were simultaneously threatened. Jeff
Thompson wrote to his friends in St. Louis, promising to be in that city in a month. The sad,
but glorious day upon Wilson's Creek defeated the Rebel designs, and compelled McCulloch, Pillow,
Hardee, and Thompson to retire.

Relieved from immediate danger, General Fremont found an opportunity to organize the expedition
down the Mississippi. Won by the magic of his name and the ceaseless energy of his action,
the hardy youth of the Northwest, flocked into St. Louis, eager to share his labors and his
glory. There was little time for organization and discipline. They were armed with such weapons
as could be procured against the competition of the General Government, and at once forwarded
to the exposed points. History can furnish few parallels to the hasty levy and organization
of the Army of the West. When suddenly required to defend Washington, the Government was able
to summon the equipped and disciplined militia of the East, and could call upon the inexhaustible
resources of a wealthy and skilful people. But in the West there was neither a disciplined
militia nor trained mechanics. Men, indeed, brave, earnest, patriotic men, were plenty,--men
who appreciated the magnitude and importance of the task before them, and who were confident
of their ability to accomplish it. But to introduce order into their tumultuous ranks, to place
arms in their eager hands, to clothe and feed them, to provide them with transportation and
equipage for the march, and inspire them with confidence for the siege and the battle,--this
labor the General, almost unaided, was called upon to perform. Like all the rest of our generals,
he was without experience in military affairs of such magnitude and urgency, and he was compelled
to rely chiefly upon the assistance of men entirely without military training and knowledge.
The general staff and the division and brigade staffs were, from the necessity of the case,
made up mainly of civilians. A small number of foreign officers brought to his aid their learning
and experience, and a still smaller number of West-Point officers gave him their invaluable
assistance. In spite of all difficulties the work proceeded. In six weeks the strategic positions
were placed in a state of defence, and an army of sixty thousand men, with a greater than common
proportion of cavalry and artillery, stood ready to clear Missouri of the invader and to open
the valley of the Mississippi. At this time the sudden appearance of Price in the West, and
the fall of Lexington, compelled the General to take the field.

We will now confine ourselves to the narrative of the incidents of the march to Springfield,
as it is given in the journal which has been placed in our hands.

FROM ST. LOUIS TO WARSAW.

St. Louis, September 27th, 1861. For four days the head-quarters have been ready to take the
field at an hour's notice. The baggage has been packed, the wagons loaded, horses have stood
saddled all through the day, and the officers have been sitting at their desks, booted and
spurred, awaiting the order for their departure. It is not unlikely that the suspense in which
they are held and the constant condition of readiness which is required of them are a sort
of preliminary discipline to which the General is subjecting them. Yesterday the body-guard
left by the river, and the staff-horses went upon the same steamer, so that we cannot be detained
much longer.

Jefferson City, September 28th. Yesterday, at eleven o'clock, we were informed that the General
would leave for Jefferson City at noon; and that those members of the staff who were not ready
would be left behind, and their places filled in the field. At the appointed hour we were all
gathered at the depot. The General drove down entirely unattended. Most of the train was occupied
by a battalion of sharp-shooters, but in the rear car the General and his staff found seats.
The day was cloudy and damp; there was no one to say farewell; and as the train passed through
the cold hills, a feeling of gloom seemed to pervade the company. Nature was in harmony with
the clouded fortunes of our General, and the laboring locomotive dragged us at a snail's pace,
as if it were unwilling to assist us in our adventure.

Those who were strangers in the West looked out eagerly for the Missouri, hoping to find the
valley of the river rich in scenery which would relieve the tedium of the journey. But when
we came out upon the river-bank and looked at the dull shores, and the sandy bed, which the
scant stream does not cover, but through which it creeps, treacherous and slimy, in half a
dozen channels, there was no pleasure to the eye, no relief for the spirit. Late in the afternoon
we approached a little village, and were greeted with music and hearty cheers,--the first sign
of hospitality the day had furnished. It was the German settlement of Hermann, famous for good
cheer and good wines. The Home-Guard was drawn up at the station, files of soldiers kept the
passage clear to the dining-room, and through an avenue of muskets, and amidst the shouts of
an enthusiastic little crowd, the General passed into a room decorated with flowers, through
the centre of which was stretched a table groaning under the weight of delicious fruits and
smoking viands. With little ceremony the hungry company seated themselves, and vigorously assailed
the tempting array, quite unconscious of the curious glances of a motley assemblage of men,
women, and children who assisted at the entertainment. The day had been dark, the journey dull,
and the people we had seen silent and sullen; but here was a welcome, the hearty, generous
welcome of sympathizing friends, who saw in their guests the defenders of their homes. They
were Germans, and our language came broken from their lips. But they are Germans who fill the
ranks of our regiments. Look where you will, and the sturdy Teuton meets your eye. If Missouri
shall be preserved for the Union and civilization, it will be by the valor of men who learned
their lessons of American liberty and glory upon the banks of the Rhine and the Elbe. We think
of this at Hermann, and we pledge our German hosts and our German fellow-soldiers in strong
draughts of delicious Catawba,--not such Catawba as is sent forth from the slovenly manufactories
of Cincinnati, for the careful vintners of Hermann select the choice grapes, and in the quiet
cellars of Hermann the Catawba has time to grow old and to ripen.

We at length extricate ourselves from the maze of corn-cakes and pancakes, waffles and muffins
and pies without number, with which our kind friends of Hermann tempt and tantalize our satiated
palates, and once more set forth after the wheezing, reluctant locomotive, over the rough road,
through the dreary hills, along the bank of the treacherous river.

At ten o'clock, in ten weary hours, we have accomplished one hundred and twenty miles, and
have reached Jefferson City. The train backs and starts ahead, halts and backs and jerks, and
finally, with a long sigh of relief, the locomotive stops, and a gentleman in citizen's dress
enters the car, carrying a lantern in his hand. It was Brigadier-General Price, commanding
at Jefferson City. He took possession of the General, and, with us closely following, left
the car. But leaving the train was a somewhat more difficult matter. We went along-side the
train, over the train, under the train, but still those cars seemed to surround us like a corral.
We at length outflanked the train, but still failed to extricate ourselves from the labyrinth.
Informed, or rather deluded, by the "lantern dimly burning," we floundered into ditches and
scrambled out of them, we waded mud-puddles and stumbled over boulders, until finally the ever-present
train disappeared in the darkness, we rushed up a steep hill, heard the welcome sound as our
feet touched a brick walk, and, after turning two or three corners, found ourselves in the
narrow hall of the "principal hotel." We were tired and disgusted, and no one stood upon the
order of his going, but went at once to sleep upon whatever floor, table, or bed offered itself.

This morning we are pleased to hear that the General has resolved to go into camp. Of course
the best houses in the place are at our disposal, but it is wisely thought that our soldier-life
will not begin until we are fairly under canvas.

All day we have had an exhibition of a Missouri crowd. The sidewalk has been fringed with curious
gazers waiting to catch a glimpse of the General. Foote, the comedian, said, that, until he
landed on the quays at Dublin, he never knew what the London beggars did with their old clothes.
One should go to Missouri to see what the New-York beggars do with their old clothes. But it
is not the dress alone. Such vacant, listless faces, with laziness written in every line, and
ignorance seated upon every feature! Is it for these that the descendants of New England and
the thrifty Germans are going forth to battle? If Missouri depended upon the Missourians, there
would be little chance for her safety, and, indeed, not very much to save.

October 4th. We have been in camp since Sunday, the 29th of September. Our tents are pitched
upon abroad shelf half-way down a considerable hill. Behind us the hill rises a hundred feet
or more, shutting us in from the south; in front, to the north, the hill inclines to a ravine
which separates us from other less lofty hills. Our camp is upon open ground, but there is
a fine forest to the east and west.

In a few days we have all become very learned in camp-life. We have found out what we want
and what we do not want. Fortunately, St. Louis is near at hand, and we send there to provide
for our necessities, and also to get rid of our superfluities. The troops have been gathering
all the week. There are several regiments in front of us, and batteries of artillery behind
us. Go where you will, spread out upon the plain or shining amidst the trees you will see the
encampments. Head-quarters are busy providing for the transportation and the maintenance of
this great force; and as rapidly as the railway can carry them, regiment after regiment is
sent west. There is plenty of work for the staff-officers; and yet our life is not without
its pleasures. The horses and their riders need training. This getting used to the saddle is
no light matter for the civilian spoiled by years of ease and comfort. But the General gives
all his officers plenty of horseback discipline. Then there is the broadsword exercise to fill
up the idle time. Evening is the festive hour in camp; though I judge, from what I have seen
and heard, that our camp has little of the gayety which is commonly associated with the soldier's
life. We are too busy for merrymaking, but in the evening there are pleasant little circles
around the fires or in the snug tents. There are old campaigners among us, men who have served
in Mexico and Utah, and others whose lives have been passed upon the Plains; they tell us campaign
stories, and teach the green hands the slang and the airs of the camp. But the unfailing amusement
is the band. This is the special pride of the General, and soon after nightfall the musicians
appear upon the little plaza around which the tents are grouped. At the first note the audience
gather. The guardsmen come up from their camp on the edge of the ravine, the negro-quarter
is deserted, the wagoners flock in from the surrounding forest, the officers stroll out of
their tents,--a picturesque crowd stands around the huge camp-fire. The programme is simple
and not often varied. It uniformly opens with "The Star-Spangled Banner," and closes with "Home,
Sweet Home." By way of a grand finale, a procession is organized every night, led by some score
of negro torch-bearers, which makes the circuit of the camp,--a performance which never fails
to produce something of a stampede among the animals.

Last night we had an alarm. About eleven o'clock, when the camp was fairly asleep, some one
tried to pass a picket half a mile west of us. The guard fired at the intruder, and in an instant
the regimental drums sounded the long roll. We started from our beds, with frantic haste buckled
on swords, spurs, and pistols, hurried servants after the horses, and hastened to report for
duty to the General. The officer who was first to appear found him standing in front of his
tent, himself the first man in camp who was ready for service. Presently a messenger came with
information as to the cause of the alarm, and we were dismissed.

At two o'clock in the morning there was another alarm. Again the body-guard bugles sounded
and the drums rolled. Again soldiers sprang to their arms, and officers rushed to report to
the General,--the first man finding him, as before, leaning upon his sword in front of his
tent. But, alas for the reputation of our mess, not one of its number appeared. In complete
unconsciousness of danger or duty, we slept on. Colonel S. said he heard "the music, but thought
it was a continuation of the evening's serenade," and went to sleep again. It was not long
before we discovered that the General knew that four members of his staff did not report to
him when the long roll was sounded.

There are several encampments on the hill-sides north of us which are in full view from our
quarters, and it is not the least of our amusements to watch the regiments going through the
afternoon drill. In the soft light of these golden days we see the long blue lines, silver-tipped,
wheel and turn, scatter and form, upon the brown hill-sides. Now the slopes are dotted with
skirmishers, and puffs of gray smoke rise over the kneeling figures; again a solid wall of
bayonets gleams along the crest of the hill, and peals of musketry echo through the woods in
the ravines.

Colonel Myscall Johnson, a Methodist exhorter and formidable Rebel marauder, is said to be
forty miles south of us with a small force, and some of the Union farmers came into camp to-day
asking for protection. Zagonyi, the commander of the body-guard, is anxious to descend upon
Johnson and scatter his thieving crew; but it is not probable he will obtain permission. The
Union men of Missouri are quite willing to have you fight for them, but their patriotism does
not go farther than this. These people represent that three-fourths of the inhabitants of Miller
County are loyal. The General probably thinks, if this be true, they ought to be able to take
care of Johnson's men. But a suggestion that they should defend their own homes and families
astonishes our Missouri friends. General Lyon established Home-Guards throughout the State,
and armed them with several thousand Springfield muskets taken from the arsenal at St. Louis.
Most of these muskets are now in Price's army, and are the most formidable weapons he has.
In some instances the Rebels enlisted in the Home-Guards and thus controlled the organization,
carrying whole companies into Price's ranks. In other cases bands of Rebels scoured the country,
went to the house of every Home-Guard, and took away his musket. In the German settlements
alone the Guards still preserve their organization and their arms.

A few days ago it fell to the lot of our mess to entertain a Rebel officer who had come in
with a flag of truce. Strange to say, he was a New-Yorker, and had a younger brother in one
of the Indiana regiments. He was a pleasant and courteous gentleman, albeit his faded dress,
with its red-flannel trimmings, did not indicate great prosperity in the enemy's camp. We gave
him the best meal we could command. I apologized because it was no better. He replied,--"Make
no apology, Sir. It is the best dinner I have eaten these three months. I have campaigned it
a good deal this summer upon three ears of roast corn a day." He added,--"I never have received
a cent of pay. None of us have. We never expect to receive any." This captain has already seen
considerable service. He was at Booneville, Carthage, Wilson's Creek, and Lexington. His descriptions
of these engagements were animated and interesting, his point of view presenting matters in
a novel light. He spoke particularly of a gunner stationed at the first piece in Totten's battery,
saying that his energy and coolness made him one of the most conspicuous figures of the day.
"Our sharp-shooters did their best, but they failed to bring him down. There he was all day
long, doing his duty as if on parade." He also told us there was no hard fighting at Lexington.
"We knew," said he, "the place was short of water, and so we spared our men, and waited for
time to do the work."

Camp Lovejoy, October 7th. For the last two days the troops have been leaving Jefferson City,
and the densely peopled hills are bare. This morning, at seven o'clock, we began to break camp.
There was no little trouble and confusion in lowering the tents and packing the wagons. It
took us a long time to-day, but we shall soon get accustomed to it, and become able to move
more quickly. At noon we left Jefferson City, going due west.

Out little column consists of three companies of the body-guard, numbering about two hundred
and fifty men, a battalion of sharp-shooters (infantry) under Major Holman, one hundred and
eighty strong, and the staff. The march is in the following order. The first company of the
guard act as advance-guard; then comes the General, followed by his staff, riding by twos,
according to rank; the other two companies of the guard come next. The sharp-shooters accompany
and protect the train. Our route lay through a broken and heavily wooded region. The roads
were very bad, but the day was bright, and the march was a succession of beautiful pictures,
of which the long and brilliant line of horsemen winding through the forest was the chief ornament.

We reached camp at three o'clock. It is a lovely spot, upon a hill-side, with a clear, swift-running
brook washing the foot of the hill. Presently the horses are tied along the fences, riders
are lounging under the trees, the kitchen-fires are lighted, guardsmen are scattered along
the banks of the stream bathing, the wagons roll heavily over the prairie and are drawn up
along the edge of the wood, tents are raised, tent-furniture is hastily arranged, and the camp
looks as if it had been there a month. Before dark a regiment of infantry and two batteries
of artillery come up. The men sleep in the open air without tents, and innumerable fires cover
the hill-sides.

We are upon land which is owned by an influential and wealthy citizen, who is an open Secessionist
in opinion, though he has had the prudence not to take up arms. By way of a slight punishment,
the General has annoyed the old man by naming his farm "Camp Owen Lovejoy," a name which the
Union neighbors will not fail to make perpetual.

California, October 8th. This morning we broke camp at six o'clock and marched at eight. The
road was bad, for which the beauty of the scenery did not entirely compensate. To-day's experience
has taught us how completely an army is tied to the wheels of the wagons. Tell a general how
fast the train can travel and he will know how long the journey will be. We passed our wagons
in a terrible plight: some upset, some with balky mules, some stuck in the mud, and some broken
down. The loud-swearing drivers, and the stubborn, patient, hard-pulling mules did not fail
to vary and enliven the scene.

A journey of eighteen miles brought us to this place, where we are encamped upon the county
fair-ground. California is a mean, thriftless village; there are no trees shading the cottages,
no shrubbery in the yards. The place is only two or three years old, but already wears a slovenly
air of decay.

I set out with Colonel L. upon a foraging expedition. We passed a small house, in front of
which a fat little negro-girl was drawing a bucket of water from the well, the girl puffing
and the windlass creaking.

"Will Massa have a drink of water?"

It was the first token of hospitality since Hermann. We stopped and drank from the bucket,
but had not been there a minute before the mistress ran out, with suspicion in her face, to
protect her property. A single question sufficed to show the politics of that house.

"Where is your husband?"

"He went off a little while ago."

This was the Missouri way of informing us that he was in the Rebel army.

A little farther on we came to what was evidently the chief house of the place. A bevy of maidens
stood at the gate, supported by a pleasant matron, fair and fat.

"Can you sell us some bread?" was our rather practical inquiry.

"We have none baked, but will bake you some by sundown," was the answer, given in a hearty,
generous voice.

The bargain was soon made. Our portly dame proved to be a Virginian, who still cherished a
true Virginian love for the Union.

Tipton, October 9th. The General was in the saddle very early, and left camp before the staff
was ready. I was fortunate enough to be on hand, and indulged in some excusable banter when
the tardy members of our company rode up after we were a mile or two on the way. We have marched
twelve miles to-day through a lovely country. We have left the hills and stony roads behind
us, and now we pass over beautiful little prairies, bordered by forests blazing with the crimson
and gold of autumn. The day's ride has been delightful, the atmosphere soft and warm, the sky
cloudless, and the prairie firm and hard under our horses' feet. We passed several regiments
on the road, who received the General with unbounded enthusiasm; and when we entered Tipton,
we found the country covered with tents, and alive with men and horses. Amidst the cheers of
the troops, we passed through the camps, and settled down upon a fine prairie-farm a mile to
the southwest of Tipton. The divisions of Asboth and Hunter are here, not less than twelve
thousand men, and from this point our course is to be southward.

Camp Asboth, near Tipton, October 11th. For the last twenty-four hours it has rained violently,
and the prairie upon which we are encamped is a sea of black mud. But the tents are tight,
and inside we contrive to keep comparatively warm.

The camp is filled with speculations as to our future course. Shall we follow Price, who is
crossing the Osage now, or are we to garrison the important positions upon this line and return
to St. Louis and prepare for the expedition down the river? The General is silent, his reserve
is never broken, and no one knows what his plans are, except those whose business it is to
know. I will here record the plan of the campaign.

Our campaign has been in some measure decided by the movements of the Rebels. The sudden appearance
of Price in the West, gathering to his standard many thousands of the disaffected, has made
it necessary for the General to check his bold and successful progress. Carthage, Wilson's
Creek, and Lexington have given to Price a prestige which it is essential to destroy. The gun-boats
cannot be finished for two months or more, and we cannot go down the Mississippi until the
flotilla is ready; and from the character of the country upon each side of the river it will
be difficult to operate there with a large body of men. In Southwestern Missouri we are sure
of fine weather till the last of November, the prairies are high and dry, and there are no
natural obstacles except such as it will excite the enthusiasm of the troops to overcome. Therefore
the General has determined to pursue Price until he catches him. He can march faster than we
can now, but we shall soon be able to move faster than it is possible for him to do. The Rebels
have no base of operations from which to draw supplies; they depend entirely upon foraging;
and for this reason Price has to make long halts wherever he finds mills, and grind the flour.
He is so deficient in equipage, also, that it will be impossible for him to carry his troops
over great distances. But we can safely calculate that Price and Rains will not leave the State;
their followers are enlisted for six months, and are already becoming discontented at their
continued retreat, and will not go with them beyond the borders. This is the uniform testimony
of deserters and scouts. Price disposed of, either by a defeat or by the dispersal of his army,
we are to proceed to Bird's Point, or into Arkansas, according to circumstances. A blow at
Little Rock seems now the wisest, as it is the boldest plan. We can reach that place by the
middle of November; and if we obtain possession of it, the position of the enemy upon the Mississippi
will be completely turned. The communications of Pillow, Hardee, and Thompson, who draw their
supplies through Arkansas, will be cut off, they will be compelled to retreat, and our flotilla
and the reinforcements can descend the river to assist in the operations against Memphis and
the attack upon New Orleans.

This campaign may be difficult, the army will have to encounter hardships and perils, but,
unless defeated in the field, the enterprise will be successful. No hardships or perils can
daunt the spirit of the General, or arrest the march of the enthusiastic army his genius has
created.

Our column is composed of five divisions, under Generals Hunter, Pope, Sigel, McKinstry, and
Asboth, and numbers about thirty thousand men, including over five thousand cavalry and eighty-six
pieces of artillery, a large proportion of which are rifled. The infantry is generally well,
though not uniformly armed. But the cavalry is very badly armed. Colonel Carr's regiment has
no sabres, except for the commissioned and non-commissioned officers. The men carry Hall's
carbines and revolvers. Major Waring's fine corps, the Fremont Hussars, is also deficient in
sabres, and some of the companies are provided with lances,--formidable weapons in skilful
bands, but only an embarrassment to our raw troops.

Lane and Sturgis are to come from Kansas and join us on the Osage, and Wyman is to bring his
command from Rolla and meet us south of that river.

Paducah, Cairo, Bird's Point, Cape Girardeau, and Ironton are well protected against attack,
and the commanders at those posts are ordered to engage the enemy as soon as we catch Price;
and if the Rebels retreat, they are to pursue them. Thus our expedition is part of a combined
and extended movement, and, instead of having no purpose except the defeat of Price, we are
on the road to New Orleans.

Next Monday we are to start. Asboth will go from here, Hunter by way of Versailles, McKinstry
from Syracuse, Pope from his present position in the direction of Booneville, and Sigel from
Sedalia. We are to cross the Osage at Warsaw; and as Sigel has the shortest distance to march,
he is expected to reach that town first.

Precious time has already been lost because of a lack of transportation and supplies. Foraging
parties have been scouring the country, and large numbers of wagons, horses, and mules have
been brought in. This property is all appraised, and when taken from Union men it is paid for.
In doubtful cases a certificate is given to the owner, which recites that he is to be paid
in case he shall continue to be loyal to the Government. We thus obtain a hold upon these people
which an oath of allegiance every day would not give us.

Camp Asboth, October 13th. Mr. Cameron, Senator Chandler of Michigan, and Adjutant-General
Thomas arrived at an early hour this morning; and at eight o'clock, the General, attended by
his staff and body-guard, repaired to the Secretary's quarters. After a short stay there, the
whole party, except General Thomas, set out for Syracuse to review the division of General
McKinstry. The day was fine, and we proceeded at a hand gallop until we reached a prairie some
three or four miles wide. Here the Secretary set spurs to his horse, and we tore across the
plain as fast as our animals could be driven. Passing from the open plain into a forest, the
whole cortege dashed over a very rough road with but little slackening of our pace; nor did
we draw rein until we reached Syracuse. A few moments were passed in the interchange of the
usual civilities, and we then went a mile farther on, to a large prairie upon which the division
was drawn up. McKinstry has the flower of the army. He has in his ranks some regular infantry,
cavalry, and artillery, and among his subordinate officers are Totten, Steele, Kelton, and
Stanley, all distinguished in the regular service. There was no time for the observance of
the usual forms of a review. The Secretary passed in front and behind the lines, made a short
address, and left immediately by rail for St. Louis, stopping at Tipton to review Asboth's
division. The staff and guard rode slowly back to camp, both men and animals having had quite
enough of the day's work. It is said, that Adjutant-General Thomas has expressed the opinion
that we shall not be able to move from here, because we have no transportation. As we are ordered
to march to-morrow, the prediction will soon be tested.

Camp Zagonyi, October 14th. We were in the saddle this morning at nine o'clock, A short march
of eleven miles, in a south-westerly direction, and through a prairie country, brought us to
our camp. As we came upon the summit of a hill which lies to the west of our present position,
our attention was directed to a group standing in front of a house about a mile distant. We
had hardly caught sight of them when half a dozen men and three women mounted their horses
and started at full speed towards the northeast, each man leading a horse. The General ordered
some of the body-guard to pursue and try to stop the fugitives. We eagerly watched the chase.
A narrow valley separated us from the elevation upon which the farm-house stood, and a small
stream with low banks ran through the bottom of the valley. The pursuit was active, the guardsmen
ran their horses down the slope, leaped the pool, and rushed up the opposite hill; but the
runaways were on fresh horses, and had no rough ground to pass, and so they escaped. One of
them lost the horse he was leading, and it was caught by a guardsman. This was the first exhibition
we have seen of a desire on the part of the inhabitants to avoid us.

The General established head-quarters along-side the house where we first discovered the Rebel
party. Our position is the most beautiful one we have yet found. To the west stretches an undulating
prairie, separated from us by a valley, into which our camping-ground subsides with a mild
declivity; to the north is a range of low hills, their round sides unbroken by shrub or tree;
while to the south stretches an extensive tract of low land, densely covered with timber, and
resplendent with the colors of autumn.

Before dark the whole of Asboth's division came up and encamped on the slopes to the west and
north: not less than seven thousand men are here. This evening the scene is beautiful. I sit
in the door of my lodge, and as far as the eye can reach the prairie is dotted with tents,
the dark forms of men and horses, the huge white-topped wagons,--and a thousand fires gleam
through the faint moonlight. Our band is playing near the General's quarters, its strains are
echoed by a score of regimental bands, and their music is mingled with the numberless noises
of camp, the hum of voices, the laughter from the groups around the fires, the clatter of hoofs
as some rider hurries to the General, the distant challenges of the sentries, the neighing
of horses, the hoarse bellowing of the mules, and the clinking of the cavalry anvils. This,
at last, is the romance of war. How soon will our ears be saluted by sterner music?

Camp Hudson, October 15th. We moved at seven o'clock this morning. For the first four miles
the road ran through woods intersected by small streams. The ground was as rough as it could
well be, and the teams which had started before us were struggling through the mire and over
the rocks. We dashed past them at a fast trot, and in half an hour came upon a high prairie.
The prairies of Southern Missouri are not large and flat, like the monotonous levels of Central
Illinois, but they are rolling, usually small, and broken by frequent narrow belts of timber.
In the woods there are hills, rocky soil, and always one, often two streams, clear and rapid
as a mountain-brook in New England.

The scenery to-day was particularly attractive, a constant succession of prairies surrounded
by wooded hills. As we go south, the color of the forest becomes richer, and the atmosphere
more mellow and hazy.

During the first two hours we passed several regiments of foot. The men were nearly all Germans,
and I scanned the ranks carefully, longing to see an American countenance. I found none, but
caught sight of one arch-devil-may-care Irish face. I doubt whether there is a company in the
army without an Irishman in it, though the proportion of Irishmen in our ranks is not so great
as at the East.

Early in the afternoon we rode up to a farm-house, at the gate of which a middle-aged woman
was standing, crying bitterly. The General stopped, and the woman at once assailed him vehemently.
She told him the soldiers had that day taken her husband and his team away with them. She said
that there was no one left to take care of her old blind mother,--at which allusion, the blind
mother tottered down the walk and took a position in the rear of the attacking party,--that
they had two orphan girls, the children of a deceased sister, and the orphans had lost their
second father. The assailants were here reinforced by the two orphan girls. She protested that
her husband was loyal,--"Truly, Sir, he was a Union man and voted for the Union, and always
told his neighbors Disunion would do nothing except bring trouble upon innocent people, as
indeed it has," said she, with a fresh flood of tears. The General was moved by her distress,
and ordered Colonel E. to have the man, whose name is Rutherford, sent back at once.

A few rods farther on we came to another house, in front of which was another weeping woman
afflicted in the same way. Several little flaxen-haired children surrounded her, and a white-bearded
man, trembling with age, stood behind, leaning upon a staff. Her earnestness far surpassed
that of Mrs. Rutherford. She wrung her hands, and could hardly speak for her tears. She seized
the General's hand and entreated him to return her husband, with an expression of distress
which the hardest heart could not resist. The General comforted the poor woman with a few kind
words, and promised to grant what she asked.

It is very difficult to refuse such requests, and yet, in point of fact, no great hardship
or sacrifice is required of these men. They profess to be Union men, but they are not in arms
for the Union, and a Federal general now asks of them that they shall help the army for a day
with their teams. To those who come here from all parts of the nation to defend these homes
this does not appear to be a harsh demand.

We arrived at camp about five o'clock. Our day's march was twenty-two miles, and the wagons
were far behind. A neighboring farm-house afforded the General and a few of his officers a
dinner, but it was late in the evening before the tents were pitched.

Warsaw, October 17th. Yesterday we made our longest march, making twenty-five miles, and encamped
three miles north of this place.

It is a problem, why riding in a column should be so much more wearisome than riding alone,
but so it undeniably is. Men who would think little of a sixty-mile ride were quite broken
down by to-day's march.

As soon as we reached camp, the General asked for volunteers from the staff to ride over to
Warsaw: of course the whole staff volunteered. On the way we met General Sigel. This very able
and enterprising officer is a pleasant, scholarly-looking gentleman, his studious air being
increased by the spectacles he always wears. His figure is light, active, and graceful, and
he is an excellent horseman. The country has few better heads than his. Always on the alert,
he is full of resources, and no difficulties daunt him. Planter, Pope, and McKinstry are behind,
waiting for tea and coffee, beans and flour, and army-wagons. Sigel gathered the ox-team and
the farmers' wagons and brought his division forward with no food for his men but fresh beef.
His advance-guard is already across the Osage, and in a day or two his whole division will be over.

Guided by General Sigel, we rode down to the ford across the Osage. The river here is broad
and rapid, and its banks are immense bare cliffs rising one hundred feet perpendicularly from
the water's edge. The ford is crooked, uncertain, and never practicable except for horsemen.
The ferry is an old flat-boat drawn across by a rope, and the ascent up the farther bank is
steep and rocky. It will not answer to leave in our rear this river, liable to be changed by
a night's rain into a fierce torrent, with no other means of crossing it than the rickety ferry.
A bridge must at once be built, strong and firm, a safe road for the army in case of disaster.
So decides the General. And as we look upon the swift-running river and its rocky shores, cold
and gloomy in the twilight, every one agrees that the General is right. His decision has since
been strongly supported, for to-day two soldiers of the Fremont Hussars were drowned in trying
to cross the ford, and the water is now rising rapidly.

This morning we moved into Warsaw, and for the first time the staff is billeted in the Secession
houses of the town; but the General clings to his tent. Our mess is quartered in the house
of the county judge, who says his sympathies are with the South. But the poor man is so frightened,
that we pity and protect him.

Bridge-building is now the sole purpose of the army. There is no saw-mill here, nor any lumber.
The forest must be cut down and fashioned into a bridge, as well as the tools and the skill
at command will permit. Details are already told off from the sharp-shooters, the cadets, and
even the body-guard, and the banks of the river now resound with the quick blows of their axes.

Warsaw, October 21st. Four days we have been waiting for the building of the bridge. By night
and by day the work goes on, and now the long black shape is striding slowly across the stream.
In a few hours it will have gained the opposite bank, and then, Ho, for Springfield!

Our scouts have come in frequently the last few days. They tell us Price is at Stockton, and
is pushing rapidly on towards the southwest. He has been grinding corn near Stockton, and has
now food enough for another journey. His army numbers twenty thousand men, of whom five thousand
have no arms. The rest carry everything, from double-barrelled shot-guns to the Springfield
muskets taken from the Home-Guards. They load their shot-guns with a Minié-ball and two buck-shot,
and those who have had experience say that at one hundred yards they are very effective weapons.
There is little discipline in the Rebel army, and the only organization is by companies. The
men are badly clothed, and without shoes, and often without food. The deserters say that those
who remain are waiting only to get the new clothes which McCulloch is expected to bring from
the South.

McCulloch, the redoubtable Ben, does not seem to be held in high esteem by the Rebel soldiers.
They say he lacks judgment and self-command. But all speak well of Price. No one can doubt
that he is a man of unusual energy and ability. McCulloch will increase Price's force to about
thirty-five thousand, which number we must expect to meet.

Hunter and McKinstry have not yet appeared, but Pope reported himself last night, and some
of his men came in to-day.

Camp White, October 22d. The bridge is built, and the army is now crossing the Osage. In five
days a firm road has been thrown across the river, over which our troops may pass in a day.
The General and staff crossed by the ferry, and are now encamped two miles south of the Pomme-de-Terre.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIRDOFREDUM SAWIN, ESQ., TO MR. HOSEA BIGLOW.

    Letter from the REVEREND HOMER WILBUR, A.M., inclosing the
    Epistle aforesaid.

Jaalam, 15th Nov., 1861.

It is not from any idle wish to obtrude my humble person with undue prominence upon the publick
view that I resume my pen upon the present occasion. Juniores ad labores. But having been a
main instrument in rescuing the talent of my young parishioner from being buried in the ground,
by giving it such warrant with the world as would be derived from a name already widely known
by several printed discourses, (all of which I maybe permitted without immodesty to state have
been deemed worthy of preservation in the Library of Harvard College by my esteemed friend
Mr. Sibley,) it seemed becoming that I should not only testify to the genuineness of the following
production, but call attention to it, the more as Mr. Biglow had so long been silent as to
be in danger of absolute oblivion. I insinuate no claim to any share in the authourship (vix
ea nostra voco) of the works already published by Mr. Biglow, but merely take to myself the
credit of having fulfilled toward them the office of taster, (experto crede,) who, having first
tried, could afterward bear witness,--an office always arduous, and sometimes even dangerous,
as in the ease of those devoted persons who venture their lives in the deglutition of patent
medicines (dolus latet in generalibus, there is deceit in the most of them) and thereafter
are wonderfully preserved long enough to append their signatures to testimonials in the diurnal
and hebdomadal prints. I say not this as covertly glancing at the authours of certain manuscripts
which have been submitted to my literary judgment, (though an epick in twenty-four books on
the "Taking of Jericho" might, save for the prudent forethought of Mrs. Wilbur in secreting
the same just as I had arrived beneath the walls and was beginning a catalogue of the various
horns and their blowers, too ambitiously emulous in longanimity of Homer's list of ships, might,
I say, have rendered frustrate any hope I could entertain vacare Musis for the small remainder
of my days,) but only further to secure myself against any imputation of unseemly forthputting.
I will barely subjoin, in this connection, that, whereas Job was left to desire, in the soreness
of his heart, that his adversary had written a book, as perchance misanthropically wishing
to indite a review thereof, yet was not Satan allowed so far to tempt him as to send Bildad,
Eliphaz, and Zophar each with an unprinted work in his wallet to be submitted to his censure.
But of this enough. Were I in need of other excuse, I might add that I write by the express
desire of Mr. Biglow himself, whose entire winter leisure is occupied, as he assures me, in
answering demands for autographs, a labour exacting enough in itself, and egregiously so to
him, who, being no ready penman, cannot sign so much as his name without strange contortions
of the face (his nose, even, being essential to complete success) and painfully suppressed
Saint-Vitus-dance of every muscle in his body. This, with his having been put in the Commission
of the Peace by our excellent Governour (O, si sic omnes!) immediately on his accession to
office, keeps him continually employed. Haud inexpertus loquor, having for many years written
myself J.P., and being not seldom applied to for specimens of my chirography, a request to
which I have sometimes too weakly assented, believing as I do that nothing written of set purpose
can properly be called an autograph, but only those unpremeditated sallies and lively runnings
which betray the fireside Man instead of the hunted Notoriety doubling on his pursuers. But
it is time that I should bethink me of Saint Austin's prayer, Libera me a meipso, if I would
arrive at the matter in hand.

Moreover, I had yet another reason for taking up the pen myself. I am informed that the "Atlantic
Monthly" is mainly indebted for its success to the contributions and editorial supervision
of Dr. Holmes, whose excellent "Annals of America" occupy an honoured place upon my shelves.
The journal itself I have never seen; but if this be so, it should seem that the recommendation
of a brother-clergyman (though par magis quam similis) would carry a greater weight. I suppose
that you have a department for historical lucubrations, and should be glad, if deemed desirable,
to forward for publication my "Collections for the Antiquities of Jaalam" and my (now happily
complete) pedigree of the Wilbur family from fons et origo, the Wild-Boar of Ardennes. Withdrawn
from the active duties of my profession by the settlement of a colleague-pastor, the Reverend
Jeduthun Hitchcock, formerly of Brutus Four-Corners, I might find time for further contributions
to general literature on similar topicks. I have made large advances toward a completer genealogy
of Mrs. Wilbur's family, the Pilcoxes, not, if I know myself, from any idle vanity, but with
the sole desire of rendering myself useful in my day and generation. Nulla dies sine lineâ.
I inclose a meteorological register, a list of the births, deaths, and marriages, and a few
memorabilia, of longevity in Jaalam East Parish for the last half-century. Though spared to
the unusual period of more than eighty years, I find no diminution of my faculties or abatement
of my natural vigour, except a scarcely sensible decay of memory and a necessity of recurring
to younger eyesight for the finer print in Cruden. It would gratify me to make some further
provision for declining years from the emoluments of my literary labours. I had intended to
effect an insurance on my life, but was deterred therefrom by a circular from one of the offices,
in which the sudden deaths of so large a proportion of the insured was set forth as an inducement,
that it seemed to me little less than a tempting of Providence. Neque in summâ inopiâ levis
esse senectus potest, ne sapienti quidem.

Thus far concerning Mr. Biglow; and so much seemed needful (brevis esse laboro) by way of preliminary,
after a silence of fourteen years. He greatly fears lest he may in this essay have fallen below
himself, well knowing, that, if exercise be dangerous on a full stomach, no less so is writing
on a full reputation. Beset as he has been on all sides, he could not refrain, and would only
imprecate patience till he shall again have "got the hang" (as he calls it) of an accomplishment
long disused. The letter of Mr. Sawin was received some time in last June, and others have
followed which will in due season be submitted to the publick. How largely his statements are
to be depended on, I more than merely dubitate. He was always distinguished for a tendency
to exaggeration,--it might almost be qualified by a stronger term. Fortiter mentire, aliquid
hæret, seemed to be his favourite rule of rhetorick. That he is actually where he says he is
the post-mark would seem to confirm; that he was received with the publick demonstrations he
describes would appear consonant with what we know of the habits of those regions; but further
than this I venture not to decide. I have sometimes suspected a vein of humour in him which
leads him to speak by contraries; but since, in the unrestrained intercourse of private life,
I have never observed in him any striking powers of invention, I am the more willing to put
a certain qualified faith in the incidents and the details of life and manners which give to
his narratives some of the interest and entertainment which characterize a Century Sermon.

It may be expected of me that I should say something to justify myself with the world for a
seeming inconsistency with my well-known principles in allowing my youngest son to raise a
company for the war, a fact known to all through the medium of the publick prints. I did reason
with the young man, but expellas naturam furcâ, tamenusque recurrit. Having myself been a chaplain
in 1812, I could the less wonder that a man of war had sprung from my loins. It was, indeed,
grievous to send my Benjamin, the child of my old age; but after the discomfiture of Manassas,
I with my own hands did buckle on his armour, trusting in the great Comforter for strength
according to my need. For truly the memory of a brave son dead in his shroud were a greater
staff of my declining years than a coward, though his days might be long in the land and he
should get much goods. It is not till our earthen vessels are broken that we find and truly
possess the treasure that was laid up in them. Migravi in animam meam, I have sought refuge
in my own soul; nor would I be shamed by the heathen comedian with his Nequam illud verbum,
bene vult, nisi bene facit. During our dark days, I read constantly in the inspired book of
Job, which I believe to contain more food to maintain the fibre of the soul for right living
and high thinking than all pagan literature together, though I would by no means vilipend the
study of the classicks. There I read that Job said in his despair, even as the fool saith in
his heart there is no God,--"The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God
are secure." Job xii. 6. Job xxxi. 13-14. On this text I preached a discourse on the last day
of Fasting and Humiliation with general acceptance, though there were not wanting one or two
Laodiceans who said that I should have waited till the President announced his policy. But
let us hope and pray, remembering this of Saint Gregory, Vult Deus rogari, vult cogi, vult
quâdam importunitate vinci.

We had our first fall of snow on Friday last. Frosts have been unusually backward this fall.
A singular circumstance occurred in this town on the 20th October, in the family of Deacon
Pelatiah Tinkham. On the previous evening, a few moments before family-prayers,

       *       *       *       *       *

[The editors of the "Atlantic" find it necessary here to cut short the letter of their valued
correspondent, which seemed calculated rather on the rates of longevity in Jaalam than for
less favored localities. They have every encouragement to hope that he will write again.]

                    With esteem and respect,

                              Your obedient servant,

                                        HOMER WILBUR, A.M.

  It's some consid'ble of a spell sence I hain't writ no letters,
  An' ther' 's gret changes hez took place in all polit'cle metters:
  Some canderdates air dead an' gone, an' some hez ben defeated,
  Which 'mounts to pooty much the same; fer it's ben proved repeated
  A betch o' bread thet hain't riz once ain't goin' to rise agin,
  An' it's jest money throwed away to put the emptins in:
  But thet's wut folks wun't never larn; they dunno how to go,
  Arter you want their room, no more 'n a bullet-headed beau;
  Ther' 's ollers chaps a-hangin' roun' thet can't see pea-time's past,
  Mis'ble as roosters in a rain, heads down an' tails half-mast:
  It ain't disgraceful bein' beat, when a holl nation doos it,
  But Chance is like an amberill,--it don't take twice to lose it.

  I spose you're kin' o' cur'ous, now, to know why I hain't writ.
  Wal, I've ben where a litt'ry taste don't somehow seem to git
  Th' encouragement a feller'd think, thet's used to public schools,
  An' where sech things ez paper 'n' ink air clean agin the rules:
  A kind o' vicyvarsy house, built dreffle strong an' stout,
  So 's 't honest people can't git in, ner t' other sort git out,
  An' with the winders so contrived, you'd prob'ly like the view
  Better a-lookin' in than out, though it seems sing'lar, tu;
  But then the landlord sets by ye, can't bear ye out o' sight,
  And locks ye up ez reg'lar ez an outside door at night.

  This world is awfle contrary: the rope may stretch your neck
  Thet mebby kep' another chap frum washin' off a wreck;
  An' you will see the taters grow in one poor feller's patch,
  So small no self-respectin' hen thet vallied time 'ould scratch,
  So small the rot can't find 'em out, an' then agin, nex' door,
  Ez big ez wut hogs dream on when they're 'most too fat to snore.
  But groutin' ain't no kin' o' use; an' ef the fust throw fails,
  Why, up an' try agin, thet's all,--the coppers ain't all tails;
  Though I hev seen 'em when I thought they hed n't no more head
  Than'd sarve a nussin' Brigadier thet gits some ink to shed.

  When I writ last, I'd ben turned loose by thet blamed nigger, Pomp,
  Ferlorner than a musquash, ef you'd took an' dreened his swamp:
  But I ain't o' the meechin' kind, thet sets an' thinks fer weeks
  The bottom's out o' th' univarse coz their own gillpot leaks.
  I hed to cross bayous an' criks, (wal, it did beat all natur',)
  Upon a kin' o' corderoy, fust log, then alligator:
  Luck'ly the critters warn't sharp-sot; I guess't wuz overruled
  They'd done their mornin's marketin' an' gut their hunger cooled;
  Fer missionaries to the Creeks an' runaway's air viewed
  By them an' folks ez sent express to be their reg'lar food:
  Wutever 't wuz, they laid an' snoozed ez peacefully ez sinners,
  Meek ez disgestin' deacons be at ordination dinners;
  Ef any on 'em turned an' snapped, I let 'em kin' o' taste
  My live-oak leg, an' so, ye see, ther' warn't no gret o' waste,
  Fer they found out in quicker time than ef they'd ben to college
  'T warn't heartier food than though 't wuz made out o' the tree o'
          knowledge.

  But I tell you my other leg hed larned wut pizon-nettle meant,
  An' var'ous other usefle things, afore I reached a settlement,
  An' all o' me thet wuz n't sore an' sendin' prickles thru me
  Wuz jest the leg I parted with in lickin' Montezumy:
  A usefle limb it 's ben to me, an' more of a support
  Than wut the other hez ben,--coz I dror my pension for 't.

  Wal, I gut in at last where folks wuz civerlized an' white,
  Ez I diskivered to my cost afore 't wuz hardly night;
  Fer 'z I wuz settin' in the bar a-takin' sunthin' hot,
  An' feelin' like a man agin, all over in one spot,
  A feller thet sot opposite, arter a squint at me,
  Lep up an' drawed his peacemaker, an', "Dash it, Sir," suz he,
  "I'm doubledashed if you ain't him thet stole my yaller chettle,
  (You're all the stranger thet's around,) so now you've gut to settle;
  It ain't no use to argerfy ner try to cut up frisky,
  I know ye ez I know the smell o' ole chain-lightnin' whiskey;
  We're lor-abidin' folks down here, we'll fix ye so 's 't a bar
  Wouldn' tech ye with a ten-foot pole; (Jedge, you jest warm the tar;)
  You'll think you'd better ha' gut among a tribe o' Mongrel Tartars,
  'Fore we've done showin' how we raise our Southun prize tar-martyrs;
  A moultin' fallen cherubim, ef he should see ye, 'd snicker,
  Thinkin' he hedn't nary chance. Come, genlemun, le' 's liquor;
  An', Gin'ral, when you 've mixed the drinks an' chalked 'em up, tote
          roun'
  An' see ef ther' 's a feather-bed (thet's borryable) in town.
  We'll try ye fair, Ole Grafted-Leg, an' ef the tar wun't stick,
  Th' ain't not a juror here but wut'll 'quit ye double-quick."
  To cut it short, I wun't say sweet, they gi' me a good dip,
  (They ain't perfessin' Bahptists here,) then give the bed a rip,--
  The jury 'd sot, an' quicker 'n a flash they hetched me out, a livin'
  Extemp'ry mammoth turkey-chick fer a Feejee Thanksgivin'.

  Thet I felt some stuck up is wut it's nat'ral to suppose,
  When poppylar enthusiasm hed furnished me sech clo'es;
  (Ner 't ain't without edvantiges, this kin' o' suit, ye see,
  It's water-proof, an' water's wut I like kep' out o' me;)
  But nut content with thet, they took a kerridge from the fence
  An' rid me roun' to see the place, entirely free 'f expense,
  With forty-'leven new kines o' sarse without no charge acquainted me,
  Gi' me three cheers, an' vowed thet I wuz all their fahncy painted me;
  They treated me to all their eggs; (they keep 'em, I should think,
  Fer sech ovations, pooty long, for they wuz mos' distinc';)
  They starred me thick 'z the Milky-Way with indiscrim'nit cherity,
  For wut we call reception eggs air sunthin' of a rerity;
  Green ones is plentifle anough, skurce wuth a nigger's getherin',
  But your dead-ripe ones ranges high fer treatin' Nothun bretherin:
  A spotteder, ringstreakeder child the' warn't in Uncle Sam's
  Holl farm,--a cross of stripèd pig an' one o' Jacob's lambs;
  'T wuz Dannil in the lions' den, new an' enlarged edition,
  An' everythin' fust-rate o' 'ts kind, the' warn't no impersition.
  People's impulsiver down here than wut our folks to home be,
  An' kin' o' go it 'ith a resh in raisin' Hail Columby:
  Thet's so: an' they swarmed out like bees, for your real Southun
          men's
  Time isn't o' much more account than an ole settin' hen's;
  (They jest work semioccashnally, or else don't work at all,
  An' so their time an' 'tention both air et saci'ty's call.)
  Talk about hospitality! wut Nothun town d' ye know
  Would take a totle stranger up an' treat him gratis so?
  You'd better b'lieve ther' 's nothin' like this spendin' days an'
          nights
  Along 'ith a dependent race fer civerlizin' whites.

  But this wuz all prelim'nary; it's so Gran' Jurors here
  Fin' a true bill, a hendier way than ourn, an' nut so dear;
  So arter this they sentenced me, to make all tight 'n' snug,
  Afore a reg'lar court o' law, to ten years in the Jug.
  I didn' make no gret defence: you don't feel much like speakin',
  When, ef you let your clamshells gape, a quart o' tar will leak in:
  I hev hearn tell o' wingèd words, but pint o' fact it tethers
  The spoutin' gift to hev your words tu thick sot on with feathers,
  An' Choate ner Webster wouldn't ha' made an A 1 kin' o' speech,
  Astride a Southun chestnut horse sharper 'n a baby's screech.

  Two year ago they ketched the thief, 'n' seein' I wuz innercent,
  They jest oncorked an' le' me run, an' in my stid the sinner sent
  To see how he liked pork 'n' pone flavored with wa'nut saplin',
  An' nary social priv'ledge but a one-hoss, starn-wheel chaplin.
  When I come out, the folks behaved mos' gen'manly an' harnsome;
  They 'lowed it wouldn't be more 'n right, ef I should cuss 'n' darn
          some:
  The Cunnle he apolergized; suz he, "I'll du wut 's right,
  I'll give ye settisfection now by shootin' ye at sight,
  An' give the nigger, (when he's caught,) to pay him fer his trickin'
  In gittin' the wrong man took up, a most H fired lickin',--
  It's jest the way with all on 'em, the inconsistent critters,
  They're 'most enough to make a man blaspheme his mornin' bitters;
  I'll be your frien' thru thick an' thin an' in all kines o' weathers,
  An' all you'll hev to pay fer 's jest the waste o' tar an' feathers:
  A lady owned the bed, ye see, a widder, tu, Miss Shennon;
  It wuz her mite; we would ha' took another, ef ther 'd ben one:
  We don't make no charge for the ride an' all the other fixins.
  Le' 's liquor; Gin'ral, you can chalk our friend for all the mixins."
  A meetin' then wuz called, where they "RESOLVED, Thet we respec'
  B.S. Esquire for quallerties o' heart an' intellec'
  Peculiar to Columby's sile, an' not to no one else's,
  Thet makes Európean tyrans scringe in all their gilded pel'ces,
  An' doos gret honor to our race an' Southun institootions":
  (I give ye jest the substance o' the leadin' resolootions:)
  "RESOLVED, Thet we revere in him a soger 'thout a flor,
  A martyr to the princerples o' libbaty an' lor:
  RESOLVED, Thet other nations all, ef sot 'longside o' us,
  For vartoo, larnin', chivverlry, ain't noways wuth a cuss."
  They gut up a subscription, tu, but no gret come o' that;
  I 'xpect in cairin' of it roun' they took a leaky hat;
  Though Southun genelmun ain't slow at puttin' down their name,
  (When they can write,) fer in the eend it comes to jest the same,
  Because, ye see, 't 's the fashion here to sign an' not to think
  A critter'd be so sordid ez to ax 'em for the chink:
  I didn't call but jest on one, an' he drawed toothpick on me,
  An' reckoned he warn't goin' to stan' no sech dog-gauned econ'my;
  So nothin' more wuz realized, 'ceptin' the good-will shown,
  Than ef 't had ben from fust to last a reg'lar Cotton Loan.
  It's a good way, though, come to think, coz ye enjy the sense
  O' lendin' lib'rally to the Lord, an' nary red o' 'xpense:
  Sence then I've gut my name up for a gin'rous-hearted man
  By jes' subscribin' right an' left on this high-minded plan;
  I've gin away my thousans so to every Southun sort
  O' missions, colleges, an' sech, ner ain't no poorer for 't.

  I warn't so bad off, arter all; I needn't hardly mention
  That Guv'ment owed me quite a pile for my arrears o' pension,--
  I mean the poor, weak thing we hed: we run a new one now,
  Thet strings a feller with a claim up tu the nighest bough,
  An' prectises the rights o' man, purtects down-trodden debtors,
  Ner wun't hev creditors about a-scrougin' o' their betters:
  Jeff's gut the last idees ther' is, poscrip', fourteenth edition,
  He knows it takes some enterprise to run an oppersition;
  Ourn's the fust thru-by-daylight train, with all ou'doors for deepot,
  Yourn goes so slow you'd think 't wuz drawed by a last cent'ry
          teapot;--
  Wal, I gut all on 't paid in gold afore our State seceded,
  An' done wal, for Confed'rit bonds warn't jest the cheese I needed:
  Nut but wut they're ez good ez gold, but then it's hard a-breakin'
          on 'em,
  An' ignorant folks is ollers sot an' wun't git used to takin' on 'em;
  They're wuth ez much ez wut they wuz afore ole Mem'nger signed 'em,
  An' go off middlin' wal for drinks, when ther' 's a knife behind 'em:
  We du miss silver, jest fer thet an' ridin' in a bus,
  Now we've shook off the despots thet wuz suckin' at our pus;
  An' it's because the South's so rich; 't wuz nat'ral to expec'
  Supplies o' change wuz jest the things we shouldn't recollec';
  We'd ough' to ha' thought aforehan', though, o' thet good rule o'
          Crockett's,
  For 't 's tiresome cairin' cotton-bales an' niggers in your pockets,
  Ner 't ain't quite hendy to pass off one o' your six-foot Guineas
  An' git your halves an' quarters back in gals an' pickaninnies:
  Wal, 't ain't quite all a feller 'd ax, but then ther' 's this to say,
  It's on'y jest among ourselves thet we expec' to pay;
  Our system would ha' caird us thru in any Bible cent'ry,
  'Fore this onscripted plan come up o' books by double entry;
  We go the patriarkle here out o' all sight an' hearin',
  For Jacob warn't a circumstance to Jeff at financierin';
  He never 'd thought o' borryin' from Esau like all nater
  An' then cornfiscatin' all debts to sech a small pertater;
  There's p'litickle econ'my, now, combined 'ith morril beauty
  Thet saycrifices privit eends (your in'my's, tu) to dooty!
  Wy, Jeff'd ha' gin him five an' won his eye-teeth 'fore he knowed it,
  An', slid o' wastin' pottage, he'd ha' eat it up an' owed it.

  But I wuz goin' on to say how I come here to dwall;--
  'Nough said, thet, arter lookin' roun', I liked the place so wal,
  Where niggers doos a double good, with us atop to stiddy 'em,
  By bein' proofs o' prophecy an' cirkleatin' medium,
  Where a man's sunthin' coz he's white, an' whiskey's cheap ez fleas,
  An' the financial pollercy jest sooted my idees,
  Thet I friz down right where I wuz, merried the Widder Shennon,
  (Her thirds wuz part in cotton-land, part in the curse o' Canaan,)
  An' here I be ez lively ez a chipmunk on a wall,
  With nothin' to feel riled about much later 'n Eddam's fall.

  Ez fur ez human foresight goes, we made an even trade:
  She gut an overseer, an' I a fem'ly ready-made,
  (The youngest on 'em's 'most growed up,) rugged an' spry ez weazles,
  So's 't ther' 's no resk o' doctors' bills fer hoopin'-cough an'
          measles.
  Our farm's at Turkey-Buzzard Roost, Little Big Boosy River,
  Wal located in all respex,--fer 't ain't the chills 'n' fever
  Thet makes my writin' seem to squirm; a Southuner'd allow I'd
  Some call to shake, for I've jest hed to meller a new cowhide.

  Miss S. is all 'f a lady; th' ain't no better on Big Boosy,
  Ner one with more accomplishmunts 'twixt here an' Tuscaloosy;
  She's an F.F., the tallest kind, an' prouder 'n the Gran' Turk,
  An' never hed a relative thet done a stroke o' work;
  Hern ain't a scrimpin' fem'ly sech ez you git up Down East,
  Th' ain't a growed member on 't but owes his thousuns et the least:
  She is some old; but then agin ther' 's drawbacks in my sheer;
  Wut's left o' me ain't more 'n enough to make a Brigadier:
  The wust is, she hez tantrums; she is like Seth Moody's gun
  (Him thet wuz nicknamed frum his limp Ole Dot an' Kerry One);
  He'd left her loaded up a spell, an' hed to git her clear,
  So he onhitched,--Jeerusalem! the middle o' last year
  Wuz right nex' door compared to where she kicked the critter tu
  (Though jest where he brought up wuz wut no human never knew);
  His brother Asaph picked her up an' tied her to a tree,
  An' then she kicked an hour 'n' a half afore she'd let it be:
  Wal, Miss S. doos hev cuttins-up an' pourins-out o' vials,
  But then she hez her widder's thirds, an' all on us hez trials.
  My objec', though, in writin' now warn't to allude to sech,
  But to another suckemstance more dellykit to tech,--
  I want thet you should grad'lly break my merriage to Jerushy,
  An' ther' 's a heap of argymunts thet's emple to indooce ye:
  Fust place, State's Prison,--wal, it's true it warn't fer crime, o'
          course,
  But then it's jest the same fer her in gittin' a disvorce;
  Nex' place, my State's secedin' out hez leg'lly lef' me free
  To merry any one I please, pervidin' it's a she;
  Fin'lly, I never wun't come back, she needn't hev no fear on 't,
  But then it 's wal to fix things right fer fear Miss S. should hear
          on 't;
  Lastly, I've gut religion South, an' Rushy she's a pagan
  Thet sets by th' graven imiges o' the gret Nothun Dagon;
  (Now I hain't seen one in six munts, for, sence our Treasury Loan,
  Though yaller boys is thick anough, eagles hez kind o' flown;)
  An' ef J. wants a stronger pint than them thet I hev stated,
  Wy, she's an aliun in'my now, an' I've ben cornfiscated,--
  For sence we've entered on th' estate o' the late nayshnul eagle,
  She hain't no kin' o' right but jest wut I allow ez legle:
  Wut doos Secedin' mean, ef't ain't thet nat'rul rights hez riz, 'n'
  Thet wut is mine's my own, but wut's another man's ain't his'n?

  Bersides, I couldn't do no else; Miss S. suz she to me,
  "You've sheered my bed," [Thet's when I paid my interdiction fee
  To Southun rites,] "an' kep' your sheer," [Wal, I allow it sticked
  So's 't I wuz most six weeks in jail afore I gut me picked,]
  "Ner never paid no demmiges; but thet wun't do no harm,
  Pervidin' thet you'll ondertake to oversee the farm;
  (My eldes' boy is so took up, wut with the Ringtail Rangers
  An' settin' in the Jestice-Court for welcomin' o' strangers";)
  [He sot on me;] "an' so, ef you'll jest ondertake the care
  Upon a mod'rit sellery, we'll up an' call it square;
  But ef you can't conclude," suz she, an' give a kin' o' grin,
  "Wy, the Gran' Jury, I expect, 'll hev to set agin."
  Thet's the way metters stood at fust; now wut wuz I to du,
  But jest to make the best on't an' off coat an' buckle tu?
  Ther' ain't a livin' man thet finds an income necessarier
  Than me,--bimeby I'll tell ye how I fin'lly come to merry her.

  She hed another motive, tu: I mention of it here
  T' encourage lads thet's growin' up to study 'n' persevere,
  An' show 'em how much better 't pays to mind their winter-schoolin'
  Than to go off on benders 'n' sech, an' waste their time in foolin';
  Ef 't warn't for studyin', evening, I never 'd ha' ben here
  An orn'ment o' saciety, in my approprut spear:
  She wanted somebody, ye see, o' taste an' cultivation,
  To talk along o' preachers when they stopt to the plantation;
  For folks in Dixie th't read an' write, onless it is by jarks,
  Is skurce ez wut they wuz among th' oridgenal patriarchs;
  To fit a feller f' wut they call the soshle higherarchy,
  All thet you've gut to know is jest beyund an evrage darky;
  Schoolin' 's wut they can't seem to stan', they're tu consarned
          high-pressure,
  An' knowin' t' much might spile a boy for bein' a Secesher.
  We hain't no settled preachin' here, ner ministeril taxes;
  The min'ster's only settlement 's the carpet-bag he packs his
  Razor an' soap-brush intu, with his hymbook an' his Bible,--
  But they du preach, I swan to man, it's puf'kly indescrib'le!
  They go it like an Ericsson's ten-hoss-power coleric ingine,
  An' make Ole Split-Foot winch an' squirm, for all he's used to
          singein';
  Hawkins's whetstone ain't a pinch o' primin' to the innards
  To hearin' on 'em put free grace t' a lot o' tough old sin-hards!

  But I must eend this letter now: 'fore long I'll send a fresh un;
  I've lots o' things to write about, perticklerly Seceshun:
  I'm called off now to mission-work, to let a leetle law in
  To Cynthy's hide: an' so, till death,

                                        Yourn,

                                              BIRDOFREDUM SAWIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD AGE.

On the last anniversary of the Phi Beta Kappa Society at Cambridge, the venerable President
Quincy, senior member of the Society, as well as senior alumnus of the University, was received
at the dinner with peculiar demonstrations of respect. He replied to these compliments in a
speech, and, gracefully claiming the privileges of a literary society, entered at some length
into an Apology for Old Age, and, aiding himself by notes in his hand, made a sort of running
commentary on Cicero's chapter "De Senectute." The character of the speaker, the transparent
good faith of his praise and blame, and the naïveté of his eager preference of Cicero's opinions
to King David's, gave unusual interest to the College festival. It was a discourse full of
dignity, honoring him who spoke and those who heard.

The speech led me to look over at home--an easy task--Cicero's famous essay, charming by its
uniform rhetorical merit; heroic with Stoical precepts; with a Roman eye to the claims of the
State; happiest, perhaps, in his praise of life on the farm; and rising, at the conclusion,
to a lofty strain. But he does not exhaust the subject; rather invites the attempt to add traits
to the picture from our broader modern life.

Cicero makes no reference to the illusions which cling to the element of time, and in which
Nature delights. Wellington, in speaking of military men, said,--"What masks are these uniforms
to hide cowards! When our journal is published, many statues must come down." I have often
detected the like deception in the cloth shoe, wadded pelisse, wig and spectacles, and padded
chair of Age. Nature lends herself to these illusions, and adds dim sight, deafness, cracked
voice, snowy hair, short memory, and sleep. These also are masks, and all is not Age that wears
them. Whilst we yet call ourselves young, and all our mates are yet youths and boyish, one
good fellow in the set prematurely sports a gray or a bald head, which does not impose on us
who know how innocent of sanctity or of Platonism he is, but does not less deceive his juniors
and the public, who presently distinguish him with a most amusing respect: and this lets us
into the secret, that the venerable forms that so awed our childhood were just such impostors.

For if the essence of age is not present, these signs, whether of Art or Nature, are counterfeit
and ridiculous: and the essence of age is intellect. Wherever that appears, we call it old.
If we look into the eyes of the youngest person, we sometimes discover that here is one who
knows already what you would go about with much pains to teach him; there is that in him which
is the ancestor of all around him: which fact the Indian Vedas express, when they say, "He
that can discriminate is the father of his father." And in our old British legends of Arthur
and the Round-Table, his friend and counsellor, Merlin the Wise, is a babe found exposed in
a basket by the river-side, and, though an infant of only a few days, he speaks to those who
discover him, tells his name and history, and presently foretells the fate of the by-standers.
Wherever there is power, there is age. Don't be deceived by dimples and curls. I tell you that
babe is a thousand years old.

Time is, indeed, the theatre and seat of illusion. Nothing is so ductile and elastic. The mind
stretches an hour to a century, and dwarfs an age to an hour. Saadi found in a mosque at Damascus
an old Persian of a hundred and fifty years who was dying, and was saying to himself, "I said,
coming into the world by birth, 'I will enjoy myself for a few moments.' Alas! at the variegated
table of life I partook of a few mouthfuls, and the Fates said, 'Enough!'" That which does
not decay is so central and controlling in us, that, as long as one is alone by himself, he
is not sensible of the inroads of time, which always begin at the surface-edges. If, on a winter
day, you should stand within a bell-glass, the face and color of the afternoon clouds would
not indicate whether it were June or January; and if we did not find the reflection of ourselves
in the eyes of the young people, we could not know that the century-clock had struck seventy
instead of twenty. How many men habitually believe that each chance passenger with whom they
converse is of their own age, and presently find it was his father, and not his brother, whom
they knew!

But, not to press too hard on these deceits and illusions of Nature, which are inseparable
from our condition, and looking at age under an aspect more conformed to the common sense,
if the question be the felicity of age, I fear the first popular judgments will be unfavorable.
From the point of sensuous experience, seen from the streets and markets and the haunts of
pleasure and gain, the estimate of age is low, melancholy, and skeptical. Frankly face the
facts, and see the result. Tobacco, coffee, alcohol, hashish, prussic acid, strychnine, are
weak dilutions: the surest poison is time. This cup, which Nature puts to our lips, has a wonderful
virtue, surpassing that of any other draught. It opens the senses, adds power, fills us with
exalted dreams, which we call hope, love, ambition, science: especially, it creates a craving
for larger draughts of itself. But they who take the larger draughts are drunk with it, lose
their stature, strength, beauty, and senses, and end in folly and delirium. We postpone our
literary work until we have more ripeness and skill to write, and we one day discover that
our literary talent was a youthful effervescence which we have now lost. We had a judge in
Massachusetts who at sixty proposed to resign, alleging that he perceived a certain decay in
his faculties: he was dissuaded by his friends, on account of the public convenience at that
time. At seventy it was hinted to him that it was time to retire; but he now replied, that
he thought his judgment as robust, and all his faculties as good as ever they were. But besides
the self-deception, the strong and hasty laborers of the street do not work well with the chronic
valetudinarian. Youth is everywhere in place. Age, like woman, requires fit surroundings. Age
is comely in coaches, in churches, in chairs of state and ceremony, in council-chambers, in
courts of justice, and historical societies. Age is becoming in the country. But in the rush
and uproar of Broadway, if you look into the faces of the passengers, there is dejection or
indignation in the seniors, a certain concealed sense of injury, and the lip made up with a
heroic determination not to mind it. Few envy the consideration enjoyed by the oldest inhabitant.
We do not count a man's years, until he has nothing else to count. The vast inconvenience of
animal immortality was told in the fable of Tithonus. In short, the creed of the street is,
Old Age is not disgraceful, but immensely disadvantageous. Life is well enough, but we shall
all be glad to get out of it, and they will all be glad to have us.

This is odious on the face of it. Universal convictions are not to be shaken by the whimseys
of overfed butchers and firemen, or by the sentimental fears of girls who would keep the infantile
bloom on their cheeks. We know the value of experience. Life and art are cumulative; and he
who has accomplished something in any department alone deserves to be heard on that subject.
A man of great employments and excellent performance used to assure me that he did not think
a man worth anything until he was sixty; although this smacks a little of the resolution of
a certain "Young Men's Republican Club," that all men should be held eligible who were under
seventy. But in all governments, the councils of power were held by the old; and patricians
or patres, senate or senes, seigneurs or seniors, gerousia, the senate of Sparta, the presbytery
of the Church, and the like, all signify simply old men.

This cynical lampoon is refuted by the universal prayer for long life, which is the verdict
of Nature, and justified by all history. We have, it is true, examples of an accelerated pace,
by which young men achieved grand works; as in the Macedonian Alexander, in Raffaelle, Shakspeare,
Pascal, Burns, and Byron; but these are rare exceptions. Nature, in the main, vindicates her
law. Skill to do comes of doing; knowledge comes by eyes always open, and working hands; and
there is no knowledge that is not power. And if the life be true and noble, we have quite another
sort of seniors than the frowzy, timorous, peevish dotards who are falsely old,--namely, the
men who fear no city, but by whom cities stand; who appearing in any street, the people empty
their houses to gaze at and obey them: as at "My Cid, with the fleecy beard," in Toledo; or
Bruce, as Barbour reports him; as blind old Dandolo, elected Doge at eighty-four years, storming
Constantinople at ninety-four, and after the revolt again victorious, and elected at the age
of ninety-six to the throne of the Eastern Empire, which he declined, and died Doge at ninety-seven.
We still feel the force of Socrates, "whom well-advised the oracle pronounced wisest of men";
of Archimedes, holding Syracuse against the Romans by his wit, and himself better than all
their nation; of Michel Angelo, wearing the four crowns of architecture, sculpture, painting,
and poetry; of Galileo, of whose blindness Castelli said, "The noblest eye is darkened that
Nature ever made,--an eye that hath seen more than all that went before him, and hath opened
the eyes of all that shall come after him"; of Newton, who made an important discovery for
every one of his eighty-five years; of Bacon, who "took all knowledge to be his province";
of Fontenelle, "that precious porcelain vase laid up in the centre of France to be guarded
with the utmost care for a hundred years"; of Franklin, Jefferson, and Adams, the wise and
heroic statesmen; of Washington, the perfect citizen; of Wellington, the perfect soldier; of
Goethe, the all-knowing poet; of Humboldt, the encyclopædia of science.

Under the general assertion of the well-being of age, we can easily count particular benefits
of that condition. It has weathered the perilous capes and shoals in the sea whereon we sail,
and the chief evil of life is taken away in removing the grounds of fear. The insurance of
a ship expires as she enters the harbor at home. It were strange, if a man should turn his
sixtieth year without a feeling of immense relief from the number of dangers he has escaped.
When the old wife says, "Take care of that tumor in your shoulder, perhaps it is cancerous,"--he
replies, "What if it is?" The humorous thief who drank a pot of beer at the gallows blew off
the froth because he had heard it was unhealthy; but it will not add a pang to the prisoner
marched out to be shot, to assure him that the pain in his knee threatens mortification. When
the pleuro-pneumonia of the cows raged, the butchers said, that, though the acute degree was
novel, there never was a time when this disease did not occur among cattle. All men carry seeds
of all distempers through life latent, and we die without developing them: such is the affirmative
force of the constitution. But if you are enfeebled by any cause, the disease becomes strong.
At every stage we lose a foe. At fifty years, 't is said, afflicted citizens lose their sick-headaches.
I hope this hegira is not as movable a feast as that one I annually look for, when the horticulturists
assure me that the rose-bugs in our gardens disappear on the tenth of July: they stay a fortnight
later in mine. But be it as it may with the sick-headache,--'t is certain that graver headaches
and heart-aches are lulled, once for all, as we come up with certain goals of time. The passions
have answered their purpose: that slight, but dread overweight, with which, in each instance,
Nature secures the execution of her aim, drops off. To keep man in the planet, she impresses
the terror of death. To perfect the commisariat, she implants in each a little rapacity to
get the supply, and a little over-supply, of his wants. To insure the existence of the race,
she reinforces the sexual instinct, at the risk of disorder, grief, and pain. To secure strength,
she plants cruel hunger and thirst, which so easily overdo their office, and invite disease.
But these temporary stays and shifts for the protection of the young animal are shed as fast
as they can be replaced by nobler resources. We live in youth amidst this rabble of passions,
quite too tender, quite too hungry and irritable. Later, the interiors of mind and heart open,
and supply grander motives. We learn the fatal compensations that wait on every act. Then,--one
mischief at a time,--this riotous time-destroying crew disappear.

I count it another capital advantage of age, this, that a success more or less signifies nothing.
Little by little, it has amassed such a fund of merit, that it can very well afford to go on
its credit when it will. When I chanced to meet the poet Wordsworth, then sixty-three years
old, he told me, "that he had just had a fall and lost a tooth, and, when his companions were
much concerned for the mischance, he had replied, that he was glad it had not happened forty
years before." Well, Nature takes care that we shall not lose our organs forty years too soon.
A lawyer argued a cause yesterday in the Supreme Court, and I was struck with a certain air
of levity and defiance which vastly became him. Thirty years ago it was a serious concern to
him whether his pleading was good and effective. Now it is of importance to his client, but
of none to himself. It is long already fixed what he can do and cannot do, and his reputation
does not gain or suffer from one or a dozen new performances. If he should, on a new occasion,
rise quite beyond his mark, and do somewhat extraordinary and great, that, of course, would
instantly tell; but he may go below his mark with impunity, and people will say, "Oh, he had
headache," or, "He lost his sleep for two nights." What a lust of appearance, what a load of
anxieties that once degraded him, he is thus rid of! Every one is sensible of this cumulative
advantage in living. All the good days behind him are sponsors, who speak for him when he is
silent, pay for him when he has no money, introduce him where he has no letters, and work for
him when he sleeps.

A third felicity of age is, that it has found expression. Youth suffers not only from ungratified
desires, but from powers untried, and from a picture in his mind of a career which has, as
yet, no outward reality. He is tormented with the want of correspondence between things and
thoughts. Michel Angelo's head is full of masculine and gigantic figures as gods walking, which
make him savage until his furious chisel can render them into marble; and of architectural
dreams, until a hundred stone-masons can lay them in courses of travertine. There is the like
tempest in every good head in which some great benefit for the world is planted. The throes
continue until the child is born. Every faculty new to each man thus goads him and drives him
out into doleful deserts, until it finds proper vent. All the functions of human duty irritate
and lash him forward, bemoaning and chiding, until they are performed. He wants friends, employment,
knowledge, power, house and land, wife and children, honor and fame; he has religious wants,
aesthetic wants, domestic, civil, humane wants. One by one, day after day, he learns to coin
his wishes into facts. He has his calling, homestead, social connection, and personal power,
and thus, at the end of fifty years, his soul is appeased by seeing some sort of correspondence
between his wish and his possession. This makes the value of age, the satisfaction it slowly
offers to every craving. He is serene who does not feel himself pinched and wronged, but whose
condition, in particular and in general, allows the utterance of his mind. In old persons,
when thus fully expressed, we often observe a fair, plump, perennial, waxen complexion, which
indicates that all the ferment of earlier days has subsided into serenity of thought and behavior.

For a fourth benefit, age sets its house in order, and finishes its works, which to every artist
is a supreme pleasure. Youth has an excess of sensibility, to which every object glitters and
attracts. We leave one pursuit for another, and the young man's year is a heap of beginnings.
At the end of a twelvemonth, he has nothing to show for it, not one completed work. But the
time is not lost. Our instincts drove us to hive innumerable experiences, that are yet of no
visible value, and which we may keep for twice seven years before they shall be wanted. The
best things are of secular growth. The instinct of classifying marks the wise and healthy mind.
Linnæus projects his system, and lays out his twenty-four classes of plants, before yet he
has found in Nature a single plant to justify certain of his classes. His seventh class has
not one. In process of time, he finds with delight the little white Trientalis, the only plant
with seven petals and sometimes seven stamens, which constitutes a seventh class in conformity
with his system. The conchologist builds his cabinet whilst as yet he has few shells. He labels
shelves for classes, cells for species: all but a few are empty. But every year fills some
blanks, and with accelerating speed as he becomes knowing and known. An old scholar finds keen
delight in verifying all the impressive anecdotes and citations he has met with in miscellaneous
reading and hearing, in all the years of youth. We carry in memory important anecdotes, and
have lost all clue to the author from whom we had them. We have a heroic speech from Rome or
Greece, but cannot fix it on the man who said it. We have an admirable line worthy of Horace,
ever and anon resounding in our mind's ear, but have searched all probable and improbable books
for it in vain. We consult the reading men: but, strangely enough, they who know everything
know not this. But especially we have a certain insulated thought, which haunts us, but remains
insulated and barren. Well, there is nothing for all this but patience and time. Time, yes,
that is the finder, the unweariable explorer, not subject to casualties, omniscient at last.
The day comes when the hidden author of our story is found; when the brave speech returns straight
to the hero who said it; when the admirable verse finds the poet to whom it belongs; and best
of all, when the lonely thought, which seemed so wise, yet half-wise, half-thought, because
it cast no light abroad, is suddenly matched in our mind by its twin, by its sequence, or next
related analogy, which gives it instantly radiating power, and justifies the superstitious
instinct with which we had hoarded it. We remember our old Greek Professor at Cambridge, an
ancient bachelor, amid his folios, possessed by this hope of completing a task, with nothing
to break his leisure after the three hours of his daily classes, yet ever restlessly stroking
his leg, and assuring himself "he should retire from the University and read the authors."
In Goethe's Romance, Makaria, the central figure for wisdom and influence, pleases herself
with withdrawing into solitude to astronomy and epistolary correspondence. Goethe himself carried
this completion of studies to the highest point. Many of his works hung on the easel from youth
to age, and received a stroke in every month or year of his life. A literary astrologer, he
never applied himself to any task but at the happy moment when all the stars consented. Bentley
thought himself likely to live till fourscore,--long enough to read everything that was worth
reading,--"Et tunc magna mei sub terris ibit imago." Much wider is spread the pleasure which
old men take in completing their secular affairs, the inventor his inventions, the agriculturist
his experiments, and all old men in finishing their houses, rounding their estates, clearing
their titles, reducing tangled interests to order, reconciling enmities, and leaving all in
the best posture for the future. It must be believed that there is a proportion between the
designs of a man and the length of his life: there is a calendar of his years, so of his performances.

America is the country of young men, and too full of work hitherto for leisure and tranquillity;
yet we have had robust centenarians, and examples of dignity and wisdom. I have lately found
in an old note-book a record of a visit to Ex-President John Adams, in 1825, soon after the
election of his son to the Presidency. It is but a sketch, and nothing important passed in
the conversation; but it reports a moment in the life of a heroic person, who, in extreme old
age, appeared still erect, and worthy of his fame.

    ----, Feb., 1825. To-day, at Quincy, with my brother, by
    invitation of Mr. Adams's family. The old President sat in a large
    stuffed arm-chair, dressed in a blue coat, black small-clothes,
    white stockings, and a cotton cap covered his bald head. We made
    our compliment, told him he must let us join our congratulations
    to those of the nation on the happiness of his house. He thanked
    us, and said, "I am rejoiced, because the nation is happy. The
    time of gratulation and congratulations is nearly over with me: I
    am astonished that I have lived to see and know of this event. I
    have lived now nearly a century: [he was ninety in the following
    October:] a long, harassed, and distracted life."--I said, "The
    world thinks a good deal of joy has been mixed with it."--"The
    world does not know," he replied, "how much toil, anxiety, and
    sorrow I have suffered."--I asked if Mr. Adams's letter of
    acceptance had been read to him.--"Yes," he said, and added, "My
    son has more political prudence than any man that I know who has
    existed in my time; he never was put off his guard: and I hope he
    will continue such; but what effect age may work in diminishing
    the power of his mind, I do not know; it has been very much on the
    stretch, ever since he was born. He has always been laborious,
    child and man, from infancy."--When Mr. J.Q. Adams's age was
    mentioned, he said, "He is now fifty-eight, or will be in July";
    and remarked that "all the Presidents were of the same age:
    General Washington was about fifty-eight, and I was about
    fifty-eight, and Mr. Jefferson, and Mr. Madison, and Mr.
    Monroe."--We inquired, when he expected to see Mr. Adams.--He
    said, "Never: Mr. Adams will not come to Quincy, but to my
    funeral. It would be a great satisfaction to me to see him, but I
    don't wish him to come on my account."--He spoke of Mr. Lechmere,
    whom "he well remembered to have seen come down daily, at a great
    age, to walk in the old town-house,"--adding, "And I wish I could
    walk as well as he did. He was Collector of the Customs for many
    years, under the Royal Government"--E. said, "I suppose, Sir, you
    would not have taken his place, even to walk as well as
    he."--"No," he replied, "that was not what I wanted."--He talked
    of Whitefield, and "remembered, when he was a Freshman in college,
    to have come in to the Old South, [I think,] to hear him, but
    could not get into the house;--I, however, saw him," he said,
    "through a window, and distinctly heard all. He had a voice such
    as I never heard before or since. He cast it out so that you might
    hear it at the meeting-house, [pointing towards the Quincy
    meeting-house,] and he had the grace of a dancing-master, of an
    actor of plays. His voice and manner helped him more than his
    sermons. I went with Jonathan Sewall."--"And you were pleased with
    him, Sir?"--"Pleased! I was delighted beyond measure."--We asked,
    if at Whitefield's return the same popularity continued.--"Not the
    same fury," he said, "not the same wild enthusiasm as before, but
    a greater esteem, as he became more known. He did not terrify, but
    was admired."

We spent about an hour in his room. He speaks very distinctly for so old a man, enters bravely
into long sentences, which are interrupted by want of breath, but carries them invariably to
a conclusion, without ever correcting a word.

He spoke of the new novels of Cooper, and "Peep at the Pilgrims," and "Saratoga," with praise,
and named with accuracy the characters in them. He likes to have a person always reading to
him, or company talking in his room, and is better the next day after having visitors in his
chamber from morning to night.

He received a premature report of his son's election, on Sunday afternoon, without any excitement,
and told the reporter he had been hoaxed, for it was not yet time for any news to arrive. The
informer, something damped in his heart, insisted on repairing to the meeting-house, and proclaimed
it aloud to the congregation, who were so overjoyed that they rose in their seats and cheered
thrice. The Reverend Mr. Whitney dismissed them immediately.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

    Lectures on the Science of Languages, delivered at the Royal
    Institution of Great Britain in April, May, and June, 1861. By MAX
    MÜLLER, M.A., Fellow of All-Souls College, Oxford; Corresponding
    Member of the Imperial Institute of France. London: Longman,
    Green, Longman, & Roberts. 1861. 8vo. pp. xii., 399.

The name of Mr. Max Müller is familiar to American students as that of a man who, learned in
the high German fashion, has the pleasant faculty, unhappily too rare among Germans, of communicating
his erudition in a way not only comprehensible, but agreeable to the laity. The Teutonic Gelehrte,
gallantly devoting a half-century to his pipe and his locative case, fencing the result of
his labors with a bristling hedge of abbreviations, cross-references, and untranslated citations
that take panglottism for granted as an ordinary incident of human culture, too hastily assumes
a tenacity of life on the part of his reader as great as his own. All but those with whom the
study of language is a specialty pass him by as Dante does Nimrod, gladly concluding

  "Che così è a lui ciascun linguaggio,
  Come il suo ad altrui, che a nullo è noto."

The brothers Grimm are known to what is called the reading public chiefly as contributors to
the literature of the nursery; and as for Bopp, Pott, Zeuss, Lassen, Diefenbach, and the rest,
men who look upon the curse of Babel as the luckiest event in human annals, their names and
works are terrors to the uninitiated. They are the giants of these latter days, of whom all
we know is that they now and then snatch up some unhappy friend of ours and imprison him in
their terrible castle of Nongtongpaw, whence, if he ever escape, he comes back to us emaciated,
unintelligible, and with a passion for roots that would make him an ornament of society among
the Digger Indians.

Yet though in metaphor giants of learning, their office seems practically rather that of the
dwarfs, as gatherers and guardians of treasure useless to themselves, but with which some luck's-child
may enrich himself and his neighbors. Other analogies between them and the dwarfs, such as
their accomplishing superhuman things and being prematurely subject to the dryness of old ago,
("Der Zwerg ist schon im siebenten Jahr ein Greis," says Grimm,) will at once suggest themselves.

Mr. Müller is one of the agreeable luck's-children who lay these swarthy miners under contribution
for us, understand their mystic sign-language, and save us the trouble of climbing the mountain
and scratching through the thickets for ourselves. Happy the man who can make knowledge entertaining!
Thrice happy his readers! The author of these Lectures is already well known as not only, perhaps,
the best living scholar of Sanscrit literature, (and by scholar we mean one who regards study
as a means, not an end, and who is capable of drawing original conclusions,) but a savant who
can teach without tiring, and can administer learning as if it were something else than medicine.
Whoever reads this volume will regret that Mr. Müller's eminent qualifications for the Boden
Professorship at Oxford should have failed to turn the scale against the assumed superior orthodoxy
of his competitor. Was it in Sanscrit that he was heterodox? or in Hindoo mythology?

The Lectures are nine in number. The titles of them will show the range and nature of Mr. Müller's
dissertations. They are, (1.) On the science of language as one of the physical sciences; (2.)
On the growth of language in contradistinction to the history of language; (3.) On the empirical
stage in the science of language; (4.) On the classificatory stage in the same; (5.) On the
genealogical classification of languages; (6.) On comparative grammar; (7.) On the constituent
elements of language; (8.) On the morphological classification of languages; (9.) On the theoretical
stage in the science of languages and the origin of language. An Appendix contains a genealogical
table of languages; and an ample Index (why have authors forgotten, what was once so well known,
that an index is all that saves the contents of a book from being mere birds in the bush?)
makes the volume as useful on the shelf as it is interesting and instructive in the hand. Of
the catholic spirit in which Mr. Müller treats his various topics of discussion and illustration,
his own theory of the true method of investigation is the best proof.

    "There are two ways," he says, in discussing the origin of
    language, "of judging of former philosophers. One is, to put aside
    their opinions as simply erroneous, where they differ from our
    own. This is the least satisfactory way of studying ancient
    philosophy. Another way is, to try to enter into the opinions of
    those from whom we differ, to make them, our a time at least, our
    own, till at least we discover the point of view from which each
    philosopher looked at the facts before him and catch the light in
    which he regarded them. We shall then find that there is much less
    of downright error in the history of philosophy than is commonly
    supposed; nay, we shall find nothing so conducive to a right
    appreciation of truth as a right appreciation of the error by
    which it is surrounded." (p. 360. The Italics are ours.)

A mere philologist might complain that the book contained nothing new. And this is in the main
true, though by no means altogether so, especially as regards the nomenclature of classification,
and the illustration of special points by pertinent examples. In this last respect Mr. Müller
is particularly happy, as, for instance, in what he says of "Yes 'r and Yes 'm." (pp. 210 ff.)
And as regards originality in the treatment of a purely scientific subject, a good deal depends
on the meaning we attach to the term. If we understand by it striking conclusions drawn from
theoretic premises, (as in Knox's "Races of Man,") clever generalizations from fortuitous analogies
and coincidences insufficiently weighed, (as in Pococke's "India in Greece,") or, to take a
philologic example, speculations suggestive of thought, it may be, but too insecurely based
on positive data, (as in Rapp's "Physiologie der Sprache,") we shall vainly seek for such originality
in Mr. Müller's Lectures. But if we take it to mean, as we certainly prefer to do, safety of
conclusion founded on thorough knowledge and comparison, clear statement guarded on all sides
by long intimacy with the subject, and theory the result of legitimate deduction and judicial
weighing of evidence, we shall find enough in the book to content us. Mr. Müller does not now
enter the lists for the first time to win his spurs as an original writer. The plan of the
work before us necessarily excluded any great display of recondite learning or of profound
speculation. Delivered at first as popularly scientific lectures, and now published for the
general reader, it seems to us admirably conceived and executed. Easily comprehensible, and
yet always pointing out the sources of fuller investigation, it is ample both to satisfy the
desire of those who wish to get the latest results of philology and to stimulate the curiosity
of whoever wishes to go farther and deeper. It is by far the best and clearest summing-up of
the present condition of the Science of Language that we have ever seen, while the liveliness
of the style and the variety and freshness of illustration make it exceedingly entertaining.

We hope that a book of such slight assumption and such solid merit, a model of clear arrangement
and popular treatment, may be widely read in this country, where the ignorance, carelessness,
or dishonest good-nature even of journals professedly literary is apt to turn over the unlearned
reader to such blind guides as Swinton's "Rambles among Words," compounds of plagiarism and
pretension. Philology as a science is but just beginning to assert its claims in America, though
we may already point with satisfaction to several distinguished workers in the field. The names
of Professor Sophocles, at Cambridge, and Professor Whitney, at New Haven, rank with those
of European scholars; and we have already borne the warmest testimony in these pages to the
value of Mr. Marsh's contributions to the study of English, a judgment which we are glad to
see confirmed by the weighty authority of Mr, Müller.

       *       *       *       *       *

    1. On Translating Homer. Three Lectures given at Oxford by
    MATTHEW ARNOLD, M.A., Professor of Poetry in the University of
    Oxford, and formerly Fellow of Oriel College. London: Longmans.
    1861. pp. 104.

    2. Homeric Translation in Theory and Practice. A Reply to
    Matthew Arnold, Esq., Professor of Poetry at Oxford. By FRANCIS W.
    NEWMAN, a Translator of the Iliad. London: Williams & Norgate.
    1801. pp. 104.

MR. F.W. NEWMAN, Professor of Latin in the University of London, probably without much hope
of satisfying himself, and certain to dissatisfy every one who could read, or pretend to read,
the original, did nevertheless complete and publish a translation of the "Iliad." And now,
unmindful of Bentley's dictum, that no man was ever written down but by himself, he has published
an answer to Mr. Arnold's criticism of his work. Thackeray has said that it is of no use pretending
not to care if your book is cut up by the "Times"; and it is not surprising that Mr. Newman
should be uneasy at being first held up as an awful example to the youth of Oxford in academical
lectures, and then to the public of England in a printed monograph, by a man of so much reputation
for scholarship and taste as the present incumbent of Thomas Warton's chair.

Mr. Arnold's little book is, we need scarcely say, full of delicate criticism and suggestion.
He treats his subject with great cleverness, and on many points carries the reader along with
him. Especially good is all that he says about the "grand style," so far as his general propositions
are concerned. But when he comes to apply his criticisms, he instinctively feels the want of
an absolute standard of judgment in aesthetic matters, and accordingly appeals to the verdict
of "scholars,"--a somewhat vague term, to be sure, but by which he evidently understands men
not merely of learning, but of taste. Of course, his reasoning is all a posteriori, and from
the narrowest premises,--namely, from an unpleasant effect on his own nerves, to an efficient
cause in the badness of Mr. Newman's translation.

No quarrels, perhaps, are so bitter as those about matters of taste: hardly even is the odium
theologicum, so profound as the odium æstheticum. A man, perhaps, will more easily forgive
another for disbelieving his own total depravity than for believing that Guido is a great painter
or Tupper an inspiring poet. The present dispute, therefore, tenderly personal as it is on
the part of one of the pleaders, is especially interesting as showing a very decided and gratifying
advance in the civilization of literary men to-day as compared with that of a century or indeed
half a century ago. If we go back still farther, matters were still worse, and we find Luther
and even Milton raking the kennel for dirt dirty enough to fling at an antagonist. But even
within the memory of man, the style of the "Dunciad" was hardly obsolete in "Blackwood" and
the "Quarterly." It is very pleasant, in the present case, to see both attack and defence conducted
with so gentlemanlike a reserve,--and the latter, which is even more surprising, with an approach
to amenity.

In Mr. Newman the Professor of Poetry finds an able and wary antagonist, and one who, in point
of learning, carries heavier metal than himself. The dispute turns partly on the character
of Homer's poetry, partly on the true method of translation, (especially Homeric translation,)
and partly on the particular merits of Mr. Newman's attempt as compared with those of others.
Of course, many side-topics are incidentally touched upon, among others, the English hexameter,
Mr. Newman's objections to which are particularly worthy of attention.

Mr. Newman instantly sees and strikes at the weak point of his adversary's argument. "You appeal
to scholars," he says in substance; "you admit that I am one; now you don't like my choice
of words or metre; I do; who, then, shall decide? Why, the public, of course, which is the
court of last appeal in such cases." It appears to us, that, on most of the points at issue,
the truth lies somewhere between the two disputants. We do not think that Mr. Newman has made
out his case that Homer was antiquated, quaint, and even grotesque to the Greeks themselves
because his cast of thought and his language were archaic, or strange to them because he wrote
in a dialect almost as different from Attic as Scotch from English. The Bible is as far from
us in language and in the Orientalism of its thought and expression as Homer was from them;
yet we are so familiar with it that it produces on us no impression of being antiquated or
quaint, seldom of being grotesque, and what is still more to the purpose, produces that impression
as little on illiterate persons to whom many of the words are incomprehensible. So, too, it
seems to us, no part of Burns is alien to a man whose mother-tongue is English, in the same
sense that some parts of Béranger are; because Burns, though a North Briton, was still a Briton,
as Homer, though an Ionian, was still a Greek. We think he does prove that neither Mr. Arnold
nor any other scholar can form any adequate conception of the impression which the poems of
Homer produced either on the ear or the mind of a Greek; but in doing this he proves too much
for his own case, where it turns upon the class of words proper to be used in translating him.
Mr. Newman says he sometimes used low words; and since his theory of the duty of a translator
is, that he should reproduce the moral effect of his author,--be noble where he is noble, barbarous,
if he be barbarous, and quaint, if quaint,--so he should render low words by words as low.
But here his own dilemma meets him: how does he know that Homer's words did seem low to a Greek?
We agree with him in refusing to be conventional; so would Mr. Arnold; only one would call
conventional what the other would call elegant, the question again resolving itself into one
of personal taste. We agree with him also in his preference for words that have it certain
strangeness and antique dignity about them, but think he should stop short of anything that
needs a glossary. He might learn from Chapman's version, however, that it is not the widest
choice of archaic words, but intensity of conception and phrase, that gives a poem life, and
keeps it living, in spite of grave defects. Where Chapman, in a famous passage, ("Odyssey,"
v. 612,) tells us, that, when Ulysses crawled ashore after his shipwreck, "the sea had soaked
his heart through," it is not the mere simplicity of the language, but the vivid conception
which went before and compelled the simplicity, that is impressive. We believe Mr. Newman is
right in refusing to sacrifice a good word because it may be pronounced mean by individual
caprice, wrong in attempting the fatal impossibility of rescuing a word which to all minds
alike conveys a low or ludicrous meaning, as, for example, pate, and dopper, for which he does
battle doughtily. Mr. Newman is guilty of a fallacy when he brings up brick, sell, and cut
as instances in support of his position, for in these cases Mr. Arnold would only object to
his use of them in their slang sense. He himself would hardly venture to say that Hector was
a brick, that Achilles cut Agamemnon, or that Ulysses sold Polyphemus. It is precisely because
Hobbes used language in this way that his translation of Homer is so ludicrous. Wordsworth
broke down in his theory, that the language of poetry should be the every-day speech of men
and women, though he nearly succeeded in finally extirpating "poetic diction." We think the
proper antithesis is not between prosaic and poetic words, nor between the speech of actual
life and a conventionalized diction, but between the language of real life (which is something
different from the actual, or matter-of-fact) and that of artificial life, or society,--that
is, between phrases fit to express the highest passion, feeling, aspiration, and those adapted
to the intercourse of polite life, whence all violent emotion, or, at least, the expression
of it, is excluded. This latter highly artificial and polished dialect is accordingly as suitable
to the Mock-Heroic (like "The Rape of the Lock") as it is inefficient and even distasteful
when employed for the higher and more serious purposes of poetry. It was most fortunate for
English poetry that our translation of the Bible and Shakspeare arrested our language, and,
as it were, crystallized it, precisely at its freshest and most vigorous period, giving us
an inexhaustible mine of words familiar to the heart and mind, yet unvulgarized to the ear
by trivial associations.

The whole question of Homeric translation in its entire range, between Chapman on the one hand
and Pope and Cowper on the other, is opened afresh by this controversy. The difficulty of the
undertaking, and still more of dogmatizing on the proper mode of executing it, is manifest
from the fact that Mr. Newman is quite as successful in turning some specimens of Mr. Arnold's
into ridicule as the latter had been with his. Meanwhile we commend the two little books to
our readers as containing an able and entertaining discussion on a question of general and
permanent interest, and as showing that the "Quarrels of Authors" may be conducted in a dignified
and scholarly way.

       *       *       *       *       *

OBITUARY.

The last English steamer brings us the sad news of the death of Arthur Hugh Clough. Mr. Clough
had so many personal friends, as well as warm admirers, in America, that his death will be
felt by numbers of our readers both as a private grief and a public loss. The earth will not
soon close over a man of more lovely character or more true and delicate genius. This is not
the place or the occasion to do justice to the many eminent qualities of his heart and mind,
and we only allude to his death at all because in him the "Atlantic" has lost one of its most
valued contributors.