His thoughts were interrupted by the voice of Jefferson Worth himself, who, seeing the engineer
alone, had gone to him. Holmes, drawing another chair close to his, greeted Barbara's father
with eager questions. "Have you heard from home? Is everything all right?"

The older man accepted the chair by the engineer's side and answered his questions by saying:
"Mr. Cartwright instructed his New York bankers to wire this money to my account in Republic.
I notified Abe to pay the men to-morrow and go on with the work."

It was characteristic of Jefferson Worth that he did not attempt to thank Holmes for his part
in the transaction with Cartwright, but in some subtle way the engineer was made to feel his
gratitude and appreciation. After a pause Worth continued: "I am going to start back to-night
on the ten-thirty. When are you figuring on going back?"

The engineer smiled grimly. "I can't figure on anything definite just now, Mr. Worth. I might
as well tell you, I suppose, that I am no longer connected with the Company."

The announcement did not appear to be unexpected to Jefferson Worth, but his slim fingers caressed
his chin as he said: "I was afraid of that. Have you anything in view?"

Holmes felt that not only had Worth foreseen the situation, but that he had already set in
motion some movement to relieve it. "No, sir. It came so suddenly that I have scarcely had
time to think."

"I figured some time ago that the Company would not be able to hold you much longer," was the
surprising comment. "The S. & C. has been looking for a good man to put down in our country
for some time. Your experience on the river would make you particularly valuable to them under
existing conditions. I told them about you. They have been holding off waiting developments.
If I were you I would get in touch with them at once. You can go up to the city with me to-night.
We will stop over and look into the proposition and then if it is all right and agreeable to
you we can go on home together." Jefferson Worth seemed to understand perfectly the engineer's
desire to return to The King's Basin.

Before Holmes could express his delight and gratitude at the unexpected relief, a call-boy,
passing among the guests, shouted: "Mr. Jefferson Worth! Mr. Jefferson Worth!"

The banker opened the message, read it, then--without a word-handed the yellow slip to his
companion. The engineer read: "Banks in Basin won't accept New York business. Can't handle
pay checks. Abe Lee starting for San Felipe overland to-night. Have money and fresh horse ready.
Barbara."

Holmes looked in consternation from the paper in his hand to Barbara's father. The face of
Jefferson Worth expressed nothing. It was perfectly calm and emotionless, only the slim fingers
were lifted to the chin as if behind that gray mask the mind of the man was groping, seizing,
searching, examining every phase of the situation so suddenly confronting him. In answer to
the engineer's questioning look he spoke in colorless words, with machine-like exactness, as
if the matter under consideration were a mere mathematical problem presented for his solution.
"The Company owns the banks. Greenfield went into the telegraph office this morning as Cartwright
and I came out. Abe would get my message by nine o'clock. The banks would get Greenfield's
instructions the same time. Abe would at once promise the men their money to-morrow. That cashier
didn't tell him they wouldn't handle the business until too late for him to get me before the
banks closed here. Greenfield is playing for time so that the strikers will make trouble. Abe
has it figured out right. He can get here and back before I could get the money to him by train.
He should reach here to-morrow night. There is nothing to do except to see Cartwright this
evening so that he can wire New York to-night and I can get the cash through the bank here
before Abe gets in to-morrow."

As he grasped the situation and the methods Greenfield had employed to injure Worth's interests,
the engineer's eyes flashed. "Mr. Worth," he cried, "that is the dirtiest trick I ever saw turned."

"It's business, Mr. Holmes. Mr. Greenfield is merely using his advantage, that's all."

The methods of The King's Basin Land and Irrigation Company in La Palma de la Mano de Dios
were the methods of capital, impersonal, inhuman--the methods of a force governed by laws as
fixed as the laws of nature, neither cruel nor kind; inconsiderate of man's misery or happiness,
his life or death; using man for its own ends-- profit, as men use water and soil and sun and
air. The methods of Jefferson Worth were the methods of a man laboring with his brother men,
sharing their hardships, sharing their returns; a man using money as a workman uses his tools
to fashion and build and develop, adding thus to the welfare of human kind. It was inevitable
that the Company and Jefferson Worth should war.

James Greenfield served Capital; Jefferson Worth sought to make Capital serve the race. But
in the career of each of these men, who had been driven by the master passion--Good Business,
into The Hollow of God's Hand, the dominant influence was a life. In the career of Jefferson
Worth it was Barbara. In the career of James Greenfield it was Willard Holmes.

In The King's Basin reclamation work, the New York financier, whose relation to Willard Holmes
was a tribute to his love for the engineer's mother, felt that in some way--for some cause
which he could not understand--the younger man was growing away from him. Their relation of
employer and employe seemed to mar the close intimacy of the old ties, and the older man looked
forward eagerly to the time when his business plans should be carried to a successful climax
and they would both leave the West for their eastern home. That morning in the hotel, when
he saw Holmes go with Cartwright to Jefferson Worth and by that knew that the engineer had
used his influence against the interests of the Company, he was astonished and hurt. He felt
that the boy whom he had reared as his own had turned against him. As the president of the
Company he abruptly discharged the engineer, for he could do nothing else. As the foster-father
of Willard Holmes, he was still proud of the younger man's strength of character, for under
all his anger at being thwarted in his plan against Worth he knew in his heart that the engineer
had done right.

As the day passed and the engineer did not seek his company, while Greenfield's own stubborn
pride forbade him to go to Holmes, the older man's heart grew more and more lonely. That evening,
when he saw Jefferson Worth and Holmes together in earnest conversation and through all of
the following day saw them apparently associated intimately in some plan or enterprise, for
the first time personal feeling entered into his consideration of the whole situation. He felt
that his business rival had become his rival for the affections of the boy he loved. The business
victories of Jefferson Worth he could accept without feeling; but that this man--a stranger--should
come between him and his foster-son, the child of the woman he had loved with lifelong fidelity,
stirred him to a vicious, personal hatred.

At dusk that evening he saw Holmes and Worth dining together. When the meal was over he sat
in the lobby, ostensibly chatting with friends, but covertly watching the two who seemed to
be awaiting someone. Suddenly he saw them rise quickly and start toward the main entrance.
A dusty, khaki-clad man of the desert was entering the hotel. Tall, lean, bronzed, his face
haggard and strained with anxiety, his eyes blood-shot through loss of sleep, his figure expressing
in every line and movement deadly weariness and aching muscles, he strode forward into the
hotel lobby, his spurs clinking on the white tile floor.

Greenfield recognized Abe Lee and grasped the situation instantly. The president of The King's
Basin Land and Irrigation Company knew why the surveyor had come to San Felipe and he knew
what he would carry back. If the money to pay the strikers reached its destination, Jefferson
Worth would win; if not--

At half past nine o'clock that evening the thoughtful Manager of The King's Basin Land and
Irrigation Company received a cipher message from his superior that drew a long, low whistle
from his lips. For almost an hour he considered with an occasional quiet curse. Then, because
he was a good Company man, he put on his hat and strolled leisurely down the street of Kingston,
apparently enjoying his evening cigar. Once he stopped to greet a belated rancher. Again he
paused to chat a moment with a citizen. Once more he halted to exchange a word with a group
of Company men, and later stopped to greet three Mexicans who were in from the Company's camps.

The Manager asked of the work--if all was well.

"Si, Senor."

Then naturally Mr. Burk inquired for news of their countrymen, the strikers of Republic.

The Mexicans, coming from the distant camp, could tell him nothing. They had heard little.
Could Senor Burk tell them of the situation?

The Manager was quite sure that everything would be all right with the men on Jefferson Worth's
railroad day after to-morrow.

That was "bueno."

Yes, Mr. Worth's superintendent was starting from San Felipe that very evening with money--thousands
of dollars, American gold--to pay the men. He was coming alone through the mountains on horseback.
Without doubt the men would receive their pay. The Manager was glad!

"Si, Senor."

"Gracias, Senor!"

"Buenos noches!"

"Good night."

CHAPTER XXIX.

TELL BARBARA I'M ALL RIGHT.

When Abe Lee, after twenty-six hard hours in the saddle, dismounted in front of the San Felipe
hotel and entered the lobby his usually perfect nerves were strained almost to the breaking
point. For weeks the surveyor had carried the burden of Jefferson Worth's financial condition
as if it were his own. With the prospect of seeing the work he loved better than his life wrecked
and taken over by the Company, he had for days faced the critical situation of the strike.
Then, in the very hour of relief, the situation had become seemingly hopeless. Abe Lee, better
than anyone, knew the temper of the Mexican and Indian strikers. He realized fully how great
the chances were that at the very moment when he finished his ride for relief the town of Republic
was the scene of tragic violence.

If Jefferson Worth had left San Felipe ignorant of the failure of his effort to relieve the
dangerous situation at home, or if by some chance the money so desperately needed was not ready,
Abe knew that the cause was lost. The Company would triumph.

As he entered the hotel his eyes, searching eagerly for his employer, fell first on James Greenfield.
With a movement wholly involuntary the hand of the overwrought desert man came to rest on his
hip close to the heavy Colt's forty-five. Then he saw Jefferson Worth and Willard Holmes moving
towards him.

When a man feels himself hard-pressed in a fight and is struggling desperately to hold his
ground, he has small thought for the trifling courtesies demanded by custom. Without returning
the greetings of the two men and instinctively drawing apart from Holmes, the surveyor shot
a single question at his employer. "Have you got it?"

"Everything is all right," answered Jefferson Worth, and with his words something of his calm
confidence went to Abe Lee.

