The following day, July the 5th, we pursued our journey, intending to breakfast at a village
very pleasantly situated, called Vinará, six leagues from the river of Santiago, and remarkable
for the appearance of industry which it presented. No one here seemed to live in idleness;
the women, even while gazing at our carriage, were spinning away at the same time. I observed
too, that here the cochineal plant spread a broader leaf, and flourished with greater luxuriance
in the gardens and hedge-rows of the cottages around, than at any place I had before visited.
"Industry is the first step to improvement, and education follows hard upon it," thought I,
as on foot, attracted by a busy hum of voices, we made our way through an intervening copse
towards the spot whence it seemed to come. A fig-tree, the superincumbent branches of which
shaded a wide circuit of ground, arrested our progress; and looking through an opening among
the large green leaves, we espied the village pedagogue, elevated on his authoritative seat,
which was attached to the trunk of the tree. He was reading a lecture on the heads of his scholars--a
phrenological dissertation, if one might judge from its effects, with a wand long enough to
bump the caput of the most remote offender. I began to think myself in some European district,
certainly not from the late samples I had seen of the country, in the heart of the Columbian
continent. There, however, I was in reality, and in the fine province of Tucuman, with nearly
half the globe's surface between Europe and myself. The picture was a very striking one occurring
with these reflections. The beautiful vegetable-roofed school-room, too, struck my fancy. What
a delightful natural study!--the cool broad leaves overarching it, and heightening the interest
of the scene. The striplings were seated, without regular order, on the grass, under a rotunda
of this magnificent foliage. Some were cross-legged, bawling Ba, Be, Bi; others, with their
knees for a table, seemed engraving rather than writing, upon a wooden tablet, the size of
a common slate. One or two, who appeared to be more advanced in their studies, were furnished
with a copy-book, an expensive article in that place. Some were busy at arithmetic, while,
every moment, whack went the rod upon the crown of the idler or yawner.

To us the sight was curious; we had seen none lately but what were the reverse of carefully
educated beings. But we had little time to think, for a laugh burst forth at their perceiving
us, which naturally attracted the notice of the pedagogue, who took up his crutch to go and
examine the cause, for he was a cripple. We immediately came forward to the only opening among
the rich verdure, and meeting him, announced ourselves as the intruders. He was as much surprised
as his pupils had been. His magisterial brow, for he was alcade as well as schoolmaster, relaxed
into a civil smile. He invited us to walk in, and we accepted his invitation, and entertained
ourselves with examining the progress made by his boys in their studies, and in replies to
his numerous questions put respecting the battle of Ayacucho, the death of Olaneta, and the
termination of the war in Peru. He asked if it was true, that the English were coming to settle
in the country, with many similar questions. In answer to our inquiries about himself, he said
he was born on the spot, lame as he was, and had never quitted it; he had given his mind to
study, but his profession was (as it is everywhere else) "muy pobre;" that the price of a school
education there, was from two to four rials a month, according to what the pupil was taught.
Just at that moment a boy came up with a pen to be mended.