In choosing stereoscopic pictures, beware of investing largely in groups. The owner soon gets
tired to death of them. Two or three of the most striking among them are worth having, but
mostly they detestable,--vulgar repetitions of vulgar models, shamming grace, gentility, and
emotion, by the aid of costumes, attitudes, expressions, and accessories worthy only of a Thespian
society of candle-snuffers. In buying brides under veils, and such figures, look at the lady's
hands. You will very probably find the young countess is a maid-of-all-work. The presence of
a human figure adds greatly to the interest of all architectural views, by giving us a standard
of size, and should often decide our choice out of a variety of such pictures. No view pleases
the eye which has glaring patches in it,--a perfectly white-looking river, for instance,--or
trees and shrubs in full leaf, but looking as if they were covered with snow,--or glaring roads,
or frosted-looking stones and pebbles. As for composition in landscape, each person must consult
his own taste. All have agreed in admiring many of the Irish views, as those about the Lakes
of Killarney, for instance, which are beautiful alike in general effect and in nicety of detail.
The glass views on the Rhine, and of the Pyrenees in Spain, are of consummate beauty. As a
specimen of the most perfect, in its truth and union of harmony and contrast, the view of the
Circus of Gavarni, with the female figure on horseback in the front ground, is not surpassed
by any we remember to have seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is to come of the stereoscope and the photograph we are almost afraid to guess, lest we
should seem extravagant. But, premising that we are to give a colored stereoscopic mental view
of their prospects, we will venture on a few glimpses at a conceivable, if not a possible future.

Form is henceforth divorced from matter. In fact, matter as a visible object is of no great
use any longer, except as the mould on which form is shaped. Give us a few negatives of a thing
worth seeing, taken from different points of view, and that is all we want of it. Pull it down
or burn it up, if you please. We must, perhaps, sacrifice some luxury in the loss of color;
but form and light, and shade are the great things, and even color can be added, and perhaps
by and by may be got direct from Nature.

There is only one Coliseum or Pantheon; but how many millions of potential negatives have they
shed,--representatives of billions of pictures,--since they were erected! Matter in large masses
must always be fixed and dear; form is cheap and transportable. We have got the fruit of creation
now, and need not trouble ourselves with the core. Every conceivable object of Nature and Art
will soon scale off its surface for us. Men will hunt all curious, beautiful, grand objects,
as they hunt the cattle in South America, for their skins, and leave the carcasses as of little
worth.

The consequence of this will soon be such an enormous collection of forms that they will have
to be classified and arranged in vast libraries, as books are now. The time will come when
a man who wishes to see any object, natural or artificial, will go to the Imperial, National,
or City Stereographic Library and call for its skin or form, as he would for a book at any
common library. We do now distinctly propose the creation of a comprehensive and systematic
stereographic library, where all men can find the special forms they particularly desire to
see as artists, or as scholars, or as mechanics, or in any other capacity. Already a workman
has been travelling about the country with stereographic views of furniture, showing his employer's
patterns in this way, and taking orders for them. This is a mere hint of what is coming before
long.

Again, we must have special stereographic collections, just as we have professional and other
special libraries. And as a means of facilitating the formation of public and private stereographic
collections, there must be arranged a comprehensive system of exchanges, so that there may
grow up something like a universal currency of these bank-notes, or promises to pay in solid
substance, which the sun has engraved for the great Bank of Nature.

To render comparison of similar objects, or of any that we may wish to see side by side, easy,
there should be a stereographic metre or fixed standard of focal length for the camera lens,
to furnish by its multiples or fractions, if necessary, the scale of distances, and the standard
of power in the stereoscope-lens. In this way the eye can make the most rapid and exact comparisons.
If the "great elm" and the Cowthorpe oak, if the State-House and St. Peter's, were taken on
the same scale, and looked at with the same magnifying power, we should compare them without
the possibility of being misled by those partialities which might tend to make us overrate
the indigenous vegetable and the dome of our native Michel Angelo.

The next European war will send us stereographs of battles. It is asserted that a bursting
shell can be photographed. The time is perhaps at hand when a flash of light, as sudden and
brief as that of the lightning which shows a whirling wheel standing stock still, shall preserve
the very instant of the shock of contact of the mighty armies that are even now gathering.
The lightning from heaven does actually photograph natural objects on the bodies of those it
has just blasted,--so we are told by many witnesses. The lightning of clashing sabres and bayonets
may be forced to stereotype itself in a stillness as complete as that of the tumbling tide
of Niagara as we see it self-pictured.

We should be led on too far, if we developed our belief as to the transformations to be wrought
by this greatest of human triumphs over earthly conditions, the divorce of form and substance.
Let our readers fill out a blank check on the future as they like,--we give our indorsement
to their imaginations beforehand. We are looking into stereoscopes as pretty toys, and wondering
over the photograph as a charming novelty; but before another generation has passed away, it
will be recognized that a new epoch in the history of human progress dates from the time when
He who

  ----never but in uncreated light
  Dwelt from eternity--

took a pencil of fire from the hand of the "angel standing in the sun," and placed it in the
hands of a mortal.

THE MINISTER'S WOOING.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER XIV.

At the period of which we are speaking, no name in the New Republic was associated with ideas
of more brilliant promise, and invested with a greater prestige of popularity and success,
than that of Colonel Aaron Burr.

Sprung of a line distinguished for intellectual ability, the grandson of a man whose genius
has swayed New England from that day to this, the son of parents eminent in their day for influential
and popular talents, he united in himself the quickest perceptions and keenest delicacy of
fibre with the most diamond hardness and unflinching steadiness of purpose;--apt, subtle, adroit,
dazzling, no man in his time ever began life with fairer chances of success and fame.

His name, as it fell on the ear of our heroine, carried with it the suggestion of all this;
and when, with his peculiarly engaging smile, he offered his arm, she felt a little of the
flutter natural to a modest young person unexpectedly honored with the notice of one of the
great ones of the earth, whom it is seldom the lot of humble individuals to know, except by
distant report.

But, although Mary was a blushing and sensitive person, she was not what is commonly called
a diffident girl;--her nerves had that healthy, steady poise which gave her presence of mind
in the most unwonted circumstances.

The first few sentences addressed to her by her new companion were in a tone and style altogether
different from any in which she had ever been approached,--different from the dashing frankness
of her sailor lover, and from the rustic gallantry of her other admirers.

That indescribable mixture of ease and deference, guided by refined tact, which shows the practised,
high-bred man of the world, made its impression on her immediately, as the breeze on the chords
of a wind-harp. She felt herself pleasantly swayed and breathed upon;--it was as if an atmosphere
were around her in which she felt a perfect ease and freedom, an assurance that her lightest
word might launch forth safely, as a tiny boat, on the smooth, glassy mirror of her listener's
pleased attention.

"I came to Newport only on a visit of business," he said, after a few moments of introductory
conversation. "I was not prepared for its many attractions."

"Newport has a great deal of beautiful scenery," said Mary.

"I have heard that it was celebrated for the beauty of its scenery, and of its ladies," he
answered; "but," he added, with a quick flash of his dark eye, "I never realized the fact before."

The glance of the eye pointed and limited the compliment, and, at the same time, there was
a wary shrewdness in it;--he was measuring how deep his shaft had sunk, as he always instinctively
measured the person he talked with.

Mary had been told of her beauty since her childhood, notwithstanding her mother had essayed
all that transparent, respectable hoaxing by which discreet mothers endeavor to blind their
daughters to the real facts of such cases; but, in her own calm, balanced mind, she had accepted
what she was so often told, as a quiet verity; and therefore she neither fluttered nor blushed
on this occasion, but regarded her auditor with a pleased attention, as one who was saying
obliging things.

"Cool!" he thought to himself,--"hum!--a little rustic belle, I suppose,--well aware of her
own value;--rather piquant, on my word!"

"Shall we walk in the garden?" he said,--"the evening is so beautiful."

They passed out of the door and began promenading the long walk. At the bottom of the alley
he stopped, and, turning, looked up the vista of box ending in the brilliantly-lighted rooms,
where gentlemen, with powdered heads, lace ruffles, and glittering knee-buckles, were handing
ladies in stiff brocades, whose towering heads were shaded by ostrich-feathers and sparkling
with gems.

"Quite court-like, on my word!" he said. "Tell me, do you often have such brilliant entertainments
as this?"

"I suppose they do," said Mary. "I never was at one before, but I sometimes hear of them."

"And you do not attend?" said the gentleman, with an accent which made the inquiry a marked
compliment.

"No, I do not," said Mary; "these people generally do not visit us."

"What a pity," he said, "that their parties should want such an ornament! But," he added, "this
night must make them aware of their oversight;--if you are not always in society after this,
it will surely not be for want of solicitation."

"You are very kind to think so," replied Mary; "but even if it were to be so, I should not
see my way clear to be often in such scenes as this."

Her companion looked at her with a glance a little doubtful and amused, and said, "And pray,
why not? if the inquiry be not too presumptuous."

"Because," said Mary, "I should be afraid they would take too much time and thought, and lead
me to forget the great object of life."

The simple gravity with which this was said, as if quite assured of the sympathy of her auditor,
appeared to give him a secret amusement. His bright, dark eyes danced, as if he suppressed
some quick repartee; but, drooping his long lashes deferentially, he said, in gentle tones,
"I should like to know what so beautiful a young lady considers the great object of life."

Mary answered reverentially, in those words then familiar from infancy to every Puritan child,
"To glorify God, and enjoy Him forever."

"Really?" he said, looking straight into her eyes with that penetrating glance with which he
was accustomed to take the gauge of every one with whom he conversed.

"Is it not?" said Mary, looking back, calm and firm, into the sparkling, restless depths of
his eyes.

At that moment, two souls, going with the whole force of their being in opposite directions,
looked out of their windows at each other with a fixed and earnest recognition.

Burr was practised in every art of gallantry,--he had made womankind a study,--he never saw
a beautiful face and form without a sort of restless desire to experiment upon it and try his
power over the interior inhabitant; but, just at this moment, something streamed into his soul
from those blue, earnest eyes, which brought back to his mind what pious people had so often
told him of his mother, the beautiful and early-sainted Esther Burr. He was one of those persons
who systematically managed and played upon himself and others, as a skilful musician, on an
instrument. Yet one secret of his fascination was the naïveté with which, at certain moments,
he would abandon himself to some little impulse of a nature originally sensitive and tender.
Had the strain of feeling which now awoke in him come over him elsewhere, he would have shut
down some spring in his mind, and excluded it in a moment; but, talking with a beautiful creature
whom he wished to please, he gave way at once to the emotion:--real tears stood in his fine
eyes, and he raised Mary's hand to his lips, and kissed it, saying--

"Thank you, my beautiful child, for so good a thought. It is truly a noble sentiment, though
practicable only to those gifted with angelic natures."

"Oh, I trust not," said Mary, earnestly touched and wrought upon, more than she herself knew,
by the beautiful eyes, the modulated voice, the charm of manner, which seemed to enfold her
like an Italian summer.

Burr sighed,--a real sigh of his better nature, but passed out with all the more freedom that
he felt it would interest his fair companion, who, for the time being, was the one woman of
the world to him.

"Pure and artless souls like yours," he said, "cannot measure the temptations of those who
are called to the real battle of life in a world like this. How many nobler aspirations fall
withered in the fierce heat and struggle of the conflict!"

He was saying then what he really felt, often bitterly felt,--but using this real feeling advisedly,
and with skilful tact, for the purpose of the hour.

What was this purpose? To win the regard, the esteem, the tenderness of a religious, exalted
nature shrined in a beautiful form,--to gain and hold ascendency. It was a life-long habit,--one
of those forms of refined self-indulgence which he pursued, thoughtless and reckless of consequences.
He had found now the key-note of the character; it was a beautiful instrument, and he was well
pleased to play on it.

"I think, Sir," said Mary, modestly, "that you forget the great provision made for our weakness."

"How?" he said.

"They that wait on the Lord shall renew their strength," she replied, gently.

He looked at her, as she spoke these words, with a pleased, artistic perception of the contrast
between her worldly attire and the simple, religious earnestness of her words.

"She is entrancing!" he thought to himself,--"so altogether fresh and naive!"

"My sweet saint," he said, "such as you are the appointed guardians of us coarser beings. The
prayers of souls given up to worldliness and ambition effect little. You must intercede for
us. I am very orthodox, you see," he added, with that subtle smile which sometimes irradiated
his features. "I am fully aware of all that your reverend doctor tells you of the worthlessness
of unregenerate doings; and so, when I see angels walking below, I try to secure 'a friend
at court.'"

He saw that Mary looked embarrassed and pained at this banter, and therefore added, with a
delicate shading of earnestness,--

"In truth, my fair young friend, I hope you will sometimes pray for me. I am sure, if I have
any chance of good, it will come in such a way."

"Indeed I will," said Mary, fervently,--her little heart full, tears in her eyes, her breath
coming quick,--and she added, with a deepening color, "I am sure, Mr. Burr, that there should
be a covenant blessing for you, if for any one, for you are the son of a holy ancestry."

"Eh, bien, mon ami, qu'est ce que tu fais ici?" said a gay voice behind a clump of box; and
immediately there started out, like a French picture from its frame, a dark-eyed figure, dressed
like a Marquise of Louis XIV.'s time, with powdered hair, sparkling with diamonds.

"Rien que m'amuser," he replied, with ready presence of mind, in the same tone, and then added,--"Permit
me, Madame, to present to you a charming specimen of our genuine New England flowers. Miss
Scudder, I have the honor to present you to the acquaintance of Madame de Frontignac."

"I am very happy," said the lady, with that sweet, lisping accentuation of English which well
became her lovely mouth. "Miss Scudder, I hope, is very well."

Mary replied in the affirmative,--her eyes resting the while with pleased admiration on the
graceful, animated face and diamond-bright eyes which seemed looking her through.

"Monsieur la trouve bien séduisante apparemment" said the stranger, in a low, rapid voice,
to the gentleman, in a manner which showed a mingling of pique and admiration.

"Petite jalouse! rassure-toi," he replied, with a look and manner into which, with that mobile
force which was peculiar to him, he threw the most tender and passionate devotion. "Ne suis-je
pas à toi tout à fait?"--and as he spoke, he offered her his other arm. "Allow me to be an
unworthy link between the beauty of France and America."

The lady swept a proud curtsy backward, bridled her beautiful neck, and signed for them to
pass her. "I am waiting here for a friend," she said.

"Whatever is your will is mine," replied Burr, bowing with proud humility, and passing on with
Mary to the supper-room.

Here the company were fast assembling, in that high tide of good-humor which generally sets
in at this crisis of the evening.

The scene, in truth, was a specimen of a range of society which in those times could have been
assembled nowhere else but in Newport. There stood Dr. H. in the tranquil majesty of his lordly
form, and by his side, the alert, compact figure of his contemporary and theological opponent,
Dr. Stiles, who, animated by the social spirit of the hour, was dispensing courtesies to right
and left with the debonair grace of the trained gentleman of the old school. Near by, and engaging
from time to time in conversation with them, stood a Jewish Rabbin, whose olive complexion,
keen eye, and flowing beard gave a picturesque and foreign grace to the scene. Colonel Burr,
one of the most brilliant and distinguished men of the New Republic, and Colonel de Frontignac,
who had won for himself laurels in the corps of La Fayette, during the recent revolutionary
struggle, with his brilliant, accomplished wife, were all unexpected and distinguished additions
to the circle.

Burr gently cleared the way for his fair companion, and, purposely placing her where the full
light of the wax chandeliers set off her beauty to the best advantage, devoted himself to her
with a subserviency as deferential as if she had been a goddess.

For all that, he was not unobservant, when, a few moments after, Madame de Frontignac was led
in, on the arm of a Senator, with whom she was presently in full flirtation.

He observed, with a quiet, furtive smile, that, while she rattled and fanned herself, and listened
with apparent attention to the flatteries addressed to her, she darted every now and then a
glance keen as a steel blade towards him and his companion. He was perfectly adroit in playing
off one woman against another, and it struck him with a pleasant sense of oddity, how perfectly
unconscious his sweet and saintly neighbor was of the position in which she was supposed to
stand by her rival; and poor Mary, all this while, in her simplicity, really thought that she
had seen traces of what she would have called the "strivings of the spirit" in his soul. Alas!
that a phrase weighed down with such mysterious truth and meaning should ever come to fall
on the ear as mere empty cant!

With Mary it was a living form,--as were all her words; for in nothing was the Puritan education
more marked than in the earnest reality and truthfulness which it gave to language; and even
now, as she stands by his side, her large blue eye is occasionally fixed in dreamy reverie
as she thinks what a triumph of Divine grace it would be, if these inward movings of her companion's
mind should lead him, as all the pious of New England hoped, to follow in the footsteps of
President Edwards, and forms wishes that she could see him some time when she could talk to
him undisturbed.

She was too humble and too modest fully to accept the delicious flattery which he had breathed,
in implying that her hand had had power to unseal the fountains of good in his soul; but still
it thrilled through all the sensitive strings of her nature a tremulous flutter of suggestion.

She had read instances of striking and wonderful conversions from words dropped by children
and women,--and suppose some such thing should happen to her! and that this so charming and
distinguished and powerful being should be called into the fold of Christ's Church by her means!
No! it was too much to be hoped,--but the very possibility was thrilling.

When, after supper, Mrs. Scudder and the Doctor made their adieus, Burr's devotion was still
unabated. With an enchanting mixture of reverence and fatherly protection, he waited on her
to the last,--shawled her with delicate care, and handed her into the small, one-horse wagon,--as
if it had been the coach of a duchess.

"I have pleasant recollections connected with this kind of establishment," he said, as, after
looking carefully at the harness, he passed the reins into Mrs. Scudder's hands. "It reminds
me of school-days and old times. I hope your horse is quite safe, Madam."

"Oh, yes," said Mrs. Scudder, "I perfectly understand him."

"Pardon the suggestion," he replied;--"what is there that a New England matron does not understand?
Doctor, I must call by-and-by and have a little talk with you,--my theology, you know, needs
a little straightening."

"We should all be happy to see you, Colonel Burr," said Mrs. Scudder; "we live in a very plain
way, it is true,"--

"But can always find place for a friend,--that, I trust, is what you meant to say," he replied,
bowing, with his own peculiar grace, as the carriage drove off.

"Really, a most charming person is this Colonel Burr," said Mrs. Scudder.

"He seems a very frank, ingenuous young person," said the Doctor; "one cannot but mourn that
the son of such gracious parents should be left to wander into infidelity."

"Oh, he is not an infidel," said Mary; "he is far from it, though I think his mind is a little
darkened on some points."

"Ah," said the Doctor, "have you had any special religious conversation with him?"

