"I works at anything till eight year ago and den I's no count for work so I's livin' on de
pension, what am $15.00 de month.

"I's never married. I jus' couldn't make de hitch. Dem what I wants, don't want me. Dem what
wants me, I don't want, so dere am never no agreement.

"No, I's never voted, 'cause I done heared 'bout de trouble dey has over in Baton Rouge 'bout
niggers votin'. I jus' don't like trouble, and for de few years what am left, I's gwine keep
de record of stayin' 'way from it.

420190

     THOMAS JOHNS, 508 Knopp St., Cleburne, Texas, was born April 18,
     1847, in Chambers Co., Alabama. He belonged to Col. Robert Johns,
     who had come to Alabama from Virginia. After Johns was freed he
     stayed with his old owner's family until 1874, when he moved to
     Texas.

"My father's name was George and my mother's name was Nellie. My father was born in Africa.
Him and two of his brothers and one sister was stole and brought to Savannah, Georgia, and
sold. Dey was de chillen of a chief of de Kiochi tribe. De way dey was stole, dey was asked
to a dance on a ship which some white man had, and my aunt said it was early in de mornin'
when dey foun' dey was away from de land, and all dey could see was de water all 'round. She
said they was members of de file-tooth tribe of niggers. My father's teeth was so dat only
de front ones met together when he closed his mouth. De back ones didn' set together. W'en
his front teeth was together, de back ones was apart, sorta like a V on its side.

"My mother was born a slave in Virginia. She married there and had a little girl, and they
was sold away from the husband and brought to Alabama. She said her mother was part Indian
and part nigger. Her father was part white and part nigger, but he look about as white as a
white man.

"My brother's names was John, Jake and Dave. My sister's names was Ann, Katie, Judie and Easter.

"I belonged to Col. Robert Johns. He owned 30 or 35 slaves. We was well treated and had the
same food the white folks did, and didn' none of us go hongry. Col. Johns didn' have his niggers
whipped, neither.

"Marster's place had 500 acres in it. We raised cotton, corn and rice, vegetables and every
sort of fruit that would grow there, a lot of it growin' wild. We et mostly hog meat, but we
had some beef and mutton, too. When we'd kill a beef, we'd send some to all the neighbors.

"We done a good day's work, but didn' have to work after night 'less it was necessary. We was
allowed to stop at 12 o'clock and have time for rest 'fore goin' back to work. Other slave
owners roun' our place wasn't as good to dere slaves, would work 'em hard and half starve 'em.
And some marsters or overseers would whip dere niggers pretty hard, sometimes whip 'em to death.
Marster Johns didn' have no overseer. He seed to the work and my father was foreman. For awhile
after old Marster died, in 1862 or 1863, I forget which now, we had a overseer, John Sewell.
He was mean. He whipped the chillen and my mother told Miss Lucy, old marster's oldest girl.

"We was allus well treated by old marster. We was called, 'John's free niggers,' not dat we
was free, but 'cause we was well treated. Jesse Todd, his place joined ours, had 500 slaves,
and he treated 'em mighty bad. He whipped some of 'em to death. A man sold him two big niggers
which was brothers and they was so near white you couldn' hardly tell 'em from a white man.
Some people thought the man what sold 'em was their daddy. The two niggers worked good and
dey hadn' never been whipped and dey wouldn' stand for bein' whipped. One mornin' Todd come
up to 'em and told de oldest to take his shirt off. He say, 'Marster, what you wan' me to take
my shirt off for?' Todd say, 'I told you to take your shirt off.' De nigger say, 'Marster,
I ain' never took my shirt off for no man.' Todd run in de house and got his gun and come back
and shot de nigger dead. His brother fell down by him where he lay on de groun'. Todd run back
to load his gun again, it bein' a single shot. Todd's wife and son grabbed him and dey had
all dey coul' do to keep him from comin' out and killin' de other nigger.

"Marse Johns had 12 chillen. De house dey lived in was Colonyal style and had 12 rooms. I was
bo'n in dat house.

"De slaves had log cabins. We wore some cotton clothes in de summer but in de winter we wore
wool clothes. We allus had shoes. A shoemaker would come 'round once a year and stay maybe
30 days, makin' shoes for everybody on de place; den in about 6 months he would come back and
half-sole and make other repairs to de shoes. We made all our clothes on de place. We wove
light wool cloth for summer and heavy for winter.

"I could take raw cotton and card and spin it on a spinnin' wheel into thread, fine enough
to be sewed with a needle. We woun' de thread on a broche, make like and 'bout de size of a
ice pick. De thread was den woun' on a reel 'bout de size of a forewheel of a wagon, and de
reel would turn 48 times and den 'cluck'. Dat was for dem to be able to tell we was workin'.

"Dere was plenty wild game, possums, rabbits, turkey and so on. Dere was fish, too, in de creek.
I was de leader of de bunch. We would ketch little fish in de creek. We'd cook a lot of fish
and den we'd put a rag rug in de yard under a big mulberry tree and pour de fish out on dat
and den eat 'em.

"Old marster never beat his slaves and he didn' sell 'em. But some of de owners did. If a owner
had a big woman slave and she had a little man for her husban' and de owner had a big man slave,
dey would make de little husban' leave, and make de woman let de big man be her husban', so's
dere be big chillen, which dey could sell well. If de man and woman refused, dey'd get whipped.

"Course whippin' made a slave hard to sell, maybe couldn' be sold, 'cause when a man went to
buy a slave he would make him strip naked and look him over for whip marks and other blemish,
jus' like dey would a horse. But even if it done damage to de sale to whip him, dey done it,
'cause dey figgered, kill a nigger, breed another--kill a mule, buy another.

"I'll never forget de rice patch. It shore got me some whippin's, 'cause my daddy tell me to
watch de birds 'way from dat rice, and sometimes dey'd get to it. It jus' seem like de blackbirds
jus' set 'round and watched for dat rice to grow up where dey could get it. We would cut a
block off a pine tree and build a fire on it and burn it out. Den we would cut down into it
and scrape out all de char, and den put de rice in dere and beat and poun' it with a pestle
till we had all de grain beat out de heads. Den we'd pour de rice out on a cloth and de chaff
and trash would blow away.

"Our marster he drilled men for de army. De drill groun' was 'bout a mile from our place. He
was a dead shot with a rifle and had a rifle with an extry long barrel.

"De Yankees told us niggers when dey freed us after de war dat dey would give each one of us
40 acres of land and a mule. De nearest I'se ever come to dat is de pension of 'leven dollars
I gets now. But I'se jus' as thankful for dat as I can be. In fac', I don't see how I could
be any more thankful it 'twas a hun'erd and 'leven dollars.

"A man told me a nigger woman told his wife she would ruther be slave
than free. Well, I think, but I might be wrong, anybody which says that
is tellin a lie. Dere is sumpin' 'bout bein' free and dat makes up for
all de hardships. I'se been both slave and free and I knows. Course,
while I was slave I didn' have no 'sponsibility, didn' have to worry
'bout where sumpin' to eat and wear and a place to sleep was comin'
from, but dat don't make up for bein' free. She was only two when her mother was
     freed, so knows nothing of slavery except stories her mother told
     her, or that she heard her husband, Thomas Johns, tell.

"I was two years old when my mama was set free. Her owner was Major Odom. He was good to his
niggers, my mama said. She tol' me 'bout slavery times. She said other white folks roun' there
called Major Odom's niggers, 'Odom's damn free niggers,' 'cause he was so easy on 'em.

"He was never married, but he had a nigger woman, Aunt Phyllis she was called, that he had
some children by. She was half white. I remember her and him and five of their sons. The ones
I knowed was nearly all white, but Aunt Phyllis had one boy that was nigger black. His daddy
was a nigger man. When she was drunk or mad she'd say she thought more of her black chile than
all the others. Major Odom treated their children jus' like he treated the other niggers. He
never whipped none of his niggers. When his and Aunt Phyllis'es sons was grown they went to
live in the quarters, which was what the place the niggers lived was called.

"One of Major Odom's niggers was whipped by a man named Steve Owens. He got to goin' to see
a nigger woman Owens owned, and one night they beat him up bad. Major Odom put on his gun for
Owens, and they carried guns for each other till they died, but they never did have a shootin'.

"Colonel Sims had a farm joinin' Major Odom's farm, and his niggers was treated mean. He had
a overseer, J.B. Mullinax, I 'member him, and he was big and tough. He whipped a nigger man
to death. He would come out of a mornin' and give a long, keen yell, and say, 'I'm J.B. Mullinax,
just back from a week in Hell, where I got two new eyes, one named Snap and Jack, and t'other
Take Hold. I'm goin' to whip two or three niggers to death today.' He lived a long time, but
long 'fore he died his eyes turned backward in his head. I seen 'em thataway. He wouldn' give
his niggers much to eat and he'd make 'em work all day, and just give 'em boiled peas with
just water and no salt and cornbread. They'd eat their lunch right out in the hot sun and then
go right back to work. Mama said she could hear them niggers bein' whipped at night and yellin',
'Pray, marster, pray,' beggin' him not to beat 'em.

"Other niggers would run away and come to Major Odom's place and ask his niggers for sumpin'
to eat. My mama would get word to bring 'em food and she'd start out to where they was hidin'
and she'd hear the hounds, and the runaway niggers would have to go on without gettin' nothin'
to eat.

"My husban's tol' me about slavery times in Alabama. He said they would make the niggers work
hard all day pickin' cotton and then take it to the gin and gin away into the night, maybe
all night. They'd give a nigger on Sunday a peck of meal and three pounds of meat and no salt
nor nothin' else, and if you et that up 'fore the week was out, you jus' done without anything
to eat till the end of the week.

"My husban' said a family named Gullendin was mighty hard on their niggers. He said ole Missus
Gullendin, she'd take a needle and stick it through one of the nigger women's lower lips and
pin it to the bosom of her dress, and the woman would go 'round all day with her head drew
down thataway and slobberin'. There was knots on the nigger's lip where the needle had been
stuck in it.

420911

     GUS JOHNSON, 90 years or more, was born a slave of Mrs. Betty
     Glover, in Marengo Co., Alabama. Most of his memories are of his
     later boyhood in Sunnyside, Texas. He lives in an unkempt, little
     lean-to house, in the north end of Beaumont, Texas. There is no
     furniture but a broken-down bed and an equally dilapidated trunk
     and stove. Gus spends most of his time in the yard, working in his
     vegetable garden.

"Dey brung thirty-six of us here in a box car from Alabama. Yes, suh, dat's where I come from--Marengo
County, not so far from 'Mopolis. Us belong to old missy Betty Glover and my daddy name August
Glover and my mammy Lucinda. Old missy, she sho' treat us good and I never git whip for anything
'cept lyin'. Old missy, she do de whippin'.

"Old missy she sho' a good woman and all her white folks, dey used to go to church at White
Chapel at 'leven in de mornin'. Us cullud folks goes in de evenin'. Us never do no work on
Sunday, and on Saturday after twelve o'clock us can go fishin' or huntin'.

"Dey give de rations on Saturday and dat's 'bout five pound salt bacon and a peck of meal and
some sorghum syrup. Dey make dat syrup on de plantation. Dey's ten or twelve big clay kettles
in a row, sot in de furnace.

"We have lots to eat, and if de rations run short we goes huntin' or fishin'. Some de old men
kills rattlesnake and cook 'em like fish and say dey fish. I eat dat many a time and never
knowed it. 'Twas good, too.

"Dey used to have a big house where dey kep' de chillen, 'cause de wolves and panthers was
bad. Some de mammies what suckle de chillen takes care of all de chillen durin' de daytime
and at night dey own mammies come in from de field and take dem. Sometime old missy she help
nuss and all de li'l niggers well care for. When dey gits sick dey makes de med'cine of herbs
and well 'em dat way.

"When us left Alabama us come through Meridian to Houston and den to Hockley and den to Sunnyside,
'bout 18 mile west of Houston. Dat a country with lots of woods and us sot in to clean up de
ground and clean up 150 acres to farm on. Dere 'bout forty-seven hands and more 'cumulates.
Dey go back to Meridian for more and brung 'em in a ox cart.

"My brother, Bonzane Johnson, was one dey brung on dat trip. I had 'nother brother, Keen, what
die when he 102 year old. Us was all long-life people, 'cause I have a gran' uncle what die
when he 136 year old. He and my grandma and grandpa come from South Carolina and dey was all
Africa people. I heered dem tell how dey brung from Africa in de ship. My daddy he die at 99
and 'nother brother at 104.

"Us see lots of sojers when us come through from Meridian and dey de cavalry. Dey come ridin'
up with high hats like beavers on dey head and us 'fraid of 'em, 'cause dey told us dey gwine
take us to Cuba and sell us dere.

"When us first git to Texas it was cold--not sort a cold, but I mean cold. I shovel de snow
many a day. Dey have de big, common house and de white folks live upstairs and de niggers sleep
on de first floor. Dat to 'tect de white folks at night, but us have our own houses for to
live in in de daytime, builded out of logs and daubed with mud and nail rive out boards over
dat mud. Dey make de chimney out of sticks and mud, too but us have no windows, and in summer
us kind of live out in de bresh arbor, what was cool.

"Us have all kind of crops and more'n 100 acres in fruit, 'cause dey brung all kind trees and
seeds from Alabama. Dey was undergroun' springs and de water was sho' good to drink, 'cause
in Mobile de water wasn't fitten to drink. It taste like it have de lump of salt melted in
it. Us keep de butter and milk in de spring house in dem days, 'cause us ain't have no ice
in dem time.

"Old massa, he name Adam and he brother name John, and dey was way up yonder tall people. Old
massa die soon and us have missy to say what we do. All her overseers have to be good. She
punish de slaves iffen day bad, but not whip 'em. She have de jail builded undergroun' like
de stormcave and it have a drop door with de weight on it, so dey couldn't git up from de bottom.
It sho' was dark in dat place.

"In slavery time us better be in by eight o'clock, better be in dat house, better stick to
dat rule. I 'member after freedom, missy have de big celebration on Juneteenth every year.
[Handwritten Note: '?']

"When war come to Texas every plantation was conscrip' for de war and my daddy was 'pinted
to selec' de able body men offen us place for to be sojers. My brother Keen was one of dem.
He come back all right, though.

"When freedom come missy give all de men niggers $500 each, but dat 'federate money and have
pictures of hosses on it. Dat de onlies' money missy have den. Old missy Betty, she die in
Sunnyside, Texas, when she 115 year old.

"When I's 18 year old I marry a gal by name Lucy Johnson. She dead now long ago. I got five
livin' chillen somewhere, but I done lost track of 'em. One of dem boys serve in de last war.

"I used to hear somethin' 'bout rabbit foot. De old folks used to say dat iffen de rabbit have
time to stop and lick he foot de dog can't track him no more and I allus wears de rabbit foot
for good luck. I don't know if it brung me dat luck, though.

"I been here 36 year and I work mos' de time as house mover, what I work at 26 year. I'll be
honnes' with you, I don't know how old I is, but it mus' be plenty, 'cause I 'members lots
'bout de war. I didn't see no fightin' but I knowed what was goin' on den.

"I belong to de U. B. F. Lodge, what I pays into in case I gits sick. But I never can git sick
and I ain't have no ailment 'cept my feets jus' swoll up, and I can't git nothin' for that.

420139

     HARRY JOHNSON, 86, whose real name was Jim, was born in Missouri,
     where he was stolen by Harry Fugot, when about twelve years old,
     and taken to Arkansas. He was given the name of Harry and remained
     with Fugot until near the close of the Civil War. Fugot then sold
     him to Graham for 1,200 acres and he was brought to Coryell Co.,
     Texas, and later to Caldwell Co. He worked in Texas two years
     before finding out the slaves were free. He later went to McMullen
     Co. to work cattle, but eventually spent most of his time rearing
     ten white children. He now lives in Pearsall, where he married at
     the age of 59.

"I come from Missouri to Arkansas and then to Texas, and I was owned by Massa Louis Barker
and my name was Jim Johnson. But a white man name Harry Fugot stoled me and run me out to Arkansas
and changed my name to Harry. He stoled me from Mississippi County in de southern part of Missouri,
down close to de Arkansas line, and I was 'bout 12 year old then.

"My mama's name was Judie and her husban' name Miller. When I wasn't big 'nough to pack a chip,
old Massa Louis Barker wouldn't take $400 for me, 'cause he say he wants to make a overseer
out of me. My daddy went off durin' de war. He carried off by sojers and he never did come back.

"Dey 'bout 30, 40 acres in Massa Barker's plantation in Missouri. He used to hire me out from
place to place and de men what hires me puts me to doin' what he wanted. I was stole from my
mammy when I's 'bout 10 or 12 and she never did know what become of me.

"O, my stars! I seed hun'erds and hun'erds of sojers 'fore I stole from Missouri. Dey what
us call Yankees. I seed 'em strung out a half-mile long, goin' battle two and three deep. Dey
never did destroy any homes. Dey took up a little stuff. I had five sacks of meal one day and
was goin' to de mill and de sojers come along and taken me, meal and all. De maddes' woman
I ever saw was dat day. De sojers come and druv off her cows. She told 'em not to, dat her
husban' fightin' and she have to make de livin' off dem cows, but dey druv de cows to camp
and kilt 'bout three of 'em. Dey done dat, I knows, 'cause I's with 'em.

"But down in Arkansas I seed de southern sojers and I's plowin' for a old lady call Williams,
and some sojers come and goes in de house. I heered say dey was Green's men, and dey taken
everything dat old woman have what dey wants, and dey robs lots of houses.

"It don't look reas'able to say it, but it's a fac'--durin' slavery iffen you lived one place
and your mammy lived 'cross de street you couldn't go to see her without a pass. De paddlerollers
would whip you if you did. Dere was one woman owns some slaves and one of 'em asks her for
a pass and she give him de piece of paper sposed to be de pass, but she writes on it:

  "'His shirt am rough and his back am tough,
  Do, pray, Mr. Paddleroller, give 'im 'nough.'

"De paddlerollers beat him nearly to death, 'cause that's what's wrote on de paper he give 'em.

"I 'member a whippin' one slave got. It were 100 lashes. Dey's a big overseer right here on
de San Marcos river, Clem Polk, him and he massa kilt 16 niggers in one day. Dat massa couldn't
keep a overseer, 'cause de niggers wouldn't let 'em whip 'em, and dis Clem, he say, 'I'll stay
dere,' and he finds he couldn't whip dem niggers either, so he jus' kilt 'em. One nigger nearly
got him and would have kilt him. Dat nigger raise de ax to come down on Polk's head and de
massa stopped him jus' in time, and den Polk shoots dat nigger in de breast with a shotgun.

"Dey had court days and when court met, dey passed a bill what say, 'Keep de niggers at home.'
Some of 'em could go to church and some of 'em couldn't. Dey'd let de cullud people be baptized,
but dey didn't many want it, dey didn't understan' it 'nough.

"After de war ends, Massa Fugot sells me to Massa Graham for 1,200 acres of land, and I lives
in Caldwell County. He was purty good to he slaves and we live in a li'l old frame house, facin'
west. I sleeps in de same house as massa and missus, to guard 'em. One night some men came
and wake me up and tells me to put my clothes on. Missus was in de bed and she 'gin cryin'
and tell 'em not to take me, but dey taken me anyway. We called 'em Guerrillas and dey thieves.
Dey white men and one of 'em I had knowed a long time. I's with dem thives and hears 'em talk
'bout killin' Yankees. Dey kep' me in de south part of Missouri a long time. I didn't do anything
but sit 'round de house with dem.

"When I's sold to Massa Graham I didn't have to come to Texas, 'cause I's free, but I didn't
know dat, and I's out here two years 'fore I knowed I's free. Down in Caldwell County is where
de bondage was lifted offen me and I found out I's free. I jus' stays on and works and my massa
give me he promise I's git a hoss and saddle and $100 in money when I's 21 year old, but he
didn't do it. He give me a li'l pony and a saddle what I sold for $3.00 and 'bout eight or
nine dollars in money. He had me blindfolded and I thought I gwine git a good hoss and saddle
and more money.

"I looks back sometimes and thinks times was better for eatin' in slavery dan what dey is now.
My mammy was a reg'lar cook and she made me peach cobblers and apple dumplin's. In dem days,
we'd take cornmeal and mix it with water and call 'em corn dodgers and dey awful nice with
plenty butter. We had lots of hawg meat and when dey kilt a beef a man told all de neighbors
to come git some of de meat.

"Right after de war, times is pretty hard and I's taken beans and parched 'em and got 'em right
brown, and meal bran to make coffee out of. Times was purty hard, but I allus could find somethin'
to work at in dem days.

"I lived all my life 'mong white folks and jus' worked in first one place and then 'nother.
I raised ten white chillen, nine of de Lowe chillen, and dey'd mind me quicker dan dey own
pappy and mammy. Dat in McMullin County.

"De day I's married I's 59 year old and my wife is 'bout 60 year old now. De last 20 years
I's jus' piddled 'round and done no reg'lar work. I married right here in de church house.
I nussed my wife when she a baby and used to court her mammy when she's a girl. We's been real
happy together.

420928

     JAMES D. JOHNSON, born Oct. 1st, 1860, at Lexington, Mississippi,
     was a slave of Judge Drennon. He now lives with his daughter at
     4527 Baltimore St., Dallas, Texas. His memory is poor and his
     conversation is vague and wandering. His daughter says, "He ain't
     at himself these days." James attended Tuckaloo University, near
     Jackson, Mississippi, and uses very little dialect.

"My first clear recollection is about a day when I was five years old. I was playing in the
sand by the side of the house in Lexington with some other children and some Yankee soldiers
came by. They came on horseback and they drew rein by the side of the house and I ran under
the house and hid. My mother called to me to come out and told me they were Federal soldiers
and I could tell it by their blue uniforms. One of the soldiers reached into his haversack
and pulled out a uniform and gave it to me. 'Have your mammy make a suit out of it,' he said.
Another soldier gave me a uniform and my mother was a seamstress in the home of the Drennons
and she made me two suits out of those uniforms.

"Judge Drennon had married the daughter of Colonel Terry and he had given my parents to his
daughter when she married the judge. My father and mother both came from Virginia. Colonel
Terry had bought them at separate times from a slave trader who brought them from Virginia
to Mississippi. They had a likeness for each other when they learned both came from Virginia.
Both of them had white fathers, were light complected and had been brought up in the big house.

"When they told the Colonel they wished to marry he only said, 'Julia, do you take William,'
and 'William, do you take Julia?' Then they were man and wife. He gave them the name of Johnson,
which was the family name of my father's mother and the name of his father.

"When my parents lived with Judge Drennon they had a house in the yard quarters. The Drennon
home was the most beautiful house I ever have seen. It was a big, brick mansion with tall,
white pillars reaching up to the second story. The yards and grounds were so beautiful the
white folks used to come from long ways off to see them.

"After the surrendering we lived with the Drennons four or five years. They paid my parents
for their work and I had an easy time of it. I was youngest of eight children and there was
ten years or more between me and the next older child. My mother wanted to make something special
out of me.

"I went to three different schools down in the woods before I was nine. White people would
come and put up schools for the colored children but the white people in Mississippi said they
were not good people and would criticize them. Sometimes the schools would get busted up. We
studied out of the Blue Back speller and an arithmetic and a dictionary. I could spell and
give the meaning of most nigh every word in that dictionary.

"When I was thirteen they held an examination at Lexington for colored children to see who'd
get a scholarship at Tuckaloo University, eight miles from Jackson. I was greatly surprised
when I won from my county and I went but didn't finish there. Then I went a little while to
a small university near Lexington, called Allcorn University. I loved to go to school and was
considered bookish. But my people died and I had to earn a living for myself and I couldn't
find any way to use so much what I learned out of books, as far as making money was concerned.
So I came to Texas, doing any kind of labor work I could find. Finally I married and went to
farming 35 or 40 years and raised five children.

"I'm the only one left now of my brothers and sisters and it won't be long until I'm gone,
too, but I don't mind that. We lived a long time. Some of it was hard and some of it was good.
I tried all the time to live according to my lights and that is as far as I know how to do.
I don't feel resentful of anything, anymore.

"When there is sun, I just sit in the sun."

420132

     MARY JOHNSON does not know her age but is evidently very old.
     Paralytic strokes have affected mind and body. Her speech, though
     impaired, is a swift flow of words, often profane. A bitter
     attitude toward everything is apparent. Mary is homeless and owes
     the necessities of life to the kindness of a middle aged Negress
     who takes care of several old women in her home in Pear Orchard, in
     Beaumont, Texas.

"Now, wait, white folks, I got to scratch my head so's I kin 'member. I's been paralyze so
I can't git my tongue to speak good. It git all twist up.

"I don't know how old I is. My daddy he have my age in the big Bible but he done move 'round
so much it git lost long ago. He used to 'long to them Guinea men. Them was real small men
and they sho' walk fast. He wasn't so tall as my mommer and he name John Allen and he a pore
man, all bone. He sold out from the old country, that Mississippi. My mama name Sarah and she
come from Choctaw country, 'round in Georgia. I have grandma Rebecca, a reg'lar old Indian
woman and she have two long black braid longer'n her waist and she allus wore a big bonnet
with splits in it. You know de Indian people totes they chillens on they back and my mommer
have me wrop up in a blanket and strop on her back.

"I's the firstborn chile and my mommer have two gal chillen, me and Hannah, and she have seven
boy. Where I's born was old wild country and old Virginny run down thataway. Everything was
plenty good to eat and I seed strawberries what would push you to git 'em in your mouth.

"Clost to where I's born they's a place where they brung the Africy people to tame 'em and
they have big pens where they puts 'em after they takes 'em outta they gun ships. They sho'
was wild and they have hair all over jus' like a dog and big hammer rings in they noses. They
didn't wore no clothes and sometime they git 'way and run to them swamps in Floridy and git
all wild and hairy 'gain. They brung preachers to help tame 'em, but didn't 'low no preacher
in them pens by hisself, 'cause they say them preacher won't come back, 'cause some them wild
Africy people done kill 'em and eat 'em. They done worship them snake bit as a rake handle,
'cause they ain't knowed no better. When they gits 'em all tame they sells 'em for field hands,
but they allus wild and iffen anybody come they duck and hide down.

"My old missy she name Florence Walker and she reg'lar tough. I helps nuss her chile, Mary,
and Mary make her mommer be good to me. Us wore li'l brass toe shoes and I call mine gold toe
shoes. Them shoes hard 'nough to knock a mule out. After young missy and me git growed us run
off to dances and old missy beat us behind good. She say us jes' chillen yet and keep us in
short, short dress and we pull out the stitchin' in them hems so us dresses drags and she sho'
wore us out for that.

"Did us love to dance? Jesus help me! Them country niggers swing me so hard us land in the
corner with a wham.

"My brudder Robert he a pow'ful big boy and he wasn't 'lowed to have no pants till he 21 year
old, but that didn't 'scourage him from courtin' the gals. I try tease him 'bout go see the
gals with dat split shirt. That not all, that boy nuss he mommer breast till he 21 year old.
He have to have that nussin' real reg'lar. But one time he pesterin' mommer and she tryin'
milk the cow and the cow git nervous and kick over the bucket and mommer fall off the stool
and she so mad she wean him right there and then.

"Old massa he never clean hisself up or dress up. He look like a vagrant thing and he and missy
mean, too. My pore daddy he back allus done cut up from the whip and bit by the dogs. Sometime
when a woman big they make a hollow out place for her stomach and make her lay down 'cross
that hole and whip her behind. They sho' tear that thing up.

"Us chillen git to play and us sing

  "'Old possum in the holler log
    Sing high de loo,
  Fatter than a old green frog,
    Sing high de loo,
    Whar possum?

"That church they have a 'markable thing. They a deep tranch what cut all 'round the bottom
and clay steps what lead all the way to the top the mountain and when the niggers git to shoutin'
that church jes' a-rollin' and rockin'. One the songs I 'member was

  "'Shoo the devil out the corner,
    Shoo, members, shoo,
  Shoo the devil out the corner,
    Shoo, members, shoo.'

"Us li'l gals allus wore cottanade dresses ev'ry day. Them what us call nine-stitch dresses.
Mammy make fasten-back dresses and fasten-back drawers and knit sweaters and socks for the
mens. She git sheep wool what near ruint by cockle burrs and make us chillen set by the hour
and pick out them burrs.

"Us houses like chicken coops but us sho' happy in that li'l cabin house. Nothin' to worry
'bout. Mammy cook them grits, that yaller hominy. She make 'ash cat', cornbread wrop in cabbage
leaf and put ashes 'round it.

"The old plantation 'bout on the line 'tween Virginny and Mis'sippi and us live near the Madstone.
That a big stone, all smooth and when a dog bite you you go run 'round the Madstone and wash
yourself in the hot springs and the bites don't hurt you.

"I seed lots of sojers and my daddy fit with the Yankees and they have a big fight close there
and have a while lots of dead bodies layin' 'round like so many logs and they jus' stack 'em
up and sot fire to 'em. You seed 'em burnin' night and day. They lay down and shoot and then
jump up and stick 'em and sometimes they drunk the blood outten where they stick 'em, 'cause
they can't git no water.

"After freedom us go in ox team to New Orleans and daddy he raise cotton and sell it and mommer
sell eggs. My daddy a workin' man and he help build the big custom house in New Orleans and
help pull the rope to pull the boats up the canal from the river. That Canal Street now. He
put he name on top that custom house and it there to this day. You can go there and see it.
He help build the hosp'tal, too.

"One time us live close to the bay and that gran' and us take a stove and cotch catfish and
perch and cook 'em on the bank and us go meet oyster boats and daddy git 'em by the tub.

"I git marry in Baton Rouge when I sixteen and my husban' he name Arras Shaw and he lots older'n
me and I couldn't keep him. He in Port Arthur now. My husban' and I sawmill 20 year in Grayburg,
here in Texas, and then us sep'rate. I been in Beaumont 16 year and I's rice farm cook in the
camp on the Fannett Road. They tells me I got uncles in Africy. I goes to Sanctified church
and that all I can do now.

420050

     MARY ELLEN JOHNSON, owner of a little restaurant at 1301 Marilla
     St., Dallas, Texas, is 77 years old. She was born in slavery to the
     Murth family, about ten miles from San Marcos, Texas. She neither
     reads nor writes but talks with little dialect.

"I don't know so fur back as befo' I was born, 'cept what my mammy told me, and she allus said
little black chillen wasn't sposed to ask so many questions. Her name was Missouri Ellison,
'cause she belonged to Miss Micelder Ellison and then when she married with Mr. Murth, her
daddy said my mammy was her 'heritance.

"My first mem'ries are us playin' in the backyard with Miss Fannie and Miss Martha and Mr.
Sammie. They was the little Murth chillen. We used to make playhouses out there and sweep the
ground clean down to the level with brush brooms and dec'rate it all up with little broken
glasses and crockery.

"In them days we lived in a little, old log cabin in the backyard and there was just one room,
but it was snug and we had a plenty of livin'. My mammy had a nice cotton bed and she weren't
no field nigger, but my pappy were.

"Miss Micelder had a fine farm and raised most everything we ate and the food nowadays ain't
like what it was then. Miss Micelder had a wood frame house with a big kitchen and they were
cookin' goin' on all the time. They cooked on a wood stove with iron pots and skillets, and
the roastin' ears and chicken fried right out of your own yard is tastier than what you git
now. Grated 'tater puddin' was my dish.

"When I am seven years old I hear talk 'bout a war and the separation but I don't pay much
'tention. It seem far away and I don't bother my kinky head 'bout it. But then they tells eme
[typo: me] the war is over and I'm goin' to be raised free and that I don't 'long to anybody
but Gawd and my pappy and mammy, but it don't make me feel nothin', 'cause I ain't never know
I ain't free.

"After the war we removed to a house on a hill where they is five houses, little log houses
all in a row. We had good times, but we had to work in the cotton and corn and wheat in the
daylight time, but when the dusk come we used to sing and dance and play into the moonlight.

"But one man called Milton, he's past his yearling boy days and he didn't like to see us spend
our time in sin, so he'd preach to us from the Gospel, but I had the hardest time to get 'ligion
of anybody I knowed. Fin'ly I got sick when I were fifteen and was in my bed and somethin'
happened. Lawd, it was the most 'lievable thing ever happened to me. I was layin' there when
sin formed a heavy, white veil just like a blanket over my bed and it just eased down over
me till it was mashing the breath out of me. I crys out to the Lawd to save me and, sho' 'nough,
He hear the cry of a pore mis'able sinner. I ran to my mammy and pappy a-shoutin'.

"The next year I marries and went on 'nother farm right near by and starts havin' chillen.
I has ten and think I done rightly my part, 'cause I lived right by the word and taught my
chillen the same. I'm lookin' to the promise to live in Glory after my days here is done.

420115

     PAULINE JOHNSON and FELICE BOUDREAUX, sisters, were once slaves on
     the plantation of Dermat Martine, near Opelousas, Louisiana. As
     their owners were French, they are more inclined to use a Creole
     patois than English.

"Us was both slaves on de old plantation close to Opelousas," Pauline began. As the elder of
the two sisters she carried most of the conversation, although often referring to Felice before
making positive statements.

"I was 12 year old when freedom come and Felice was 'bout six. Us belonged to Massa Dermat
Martine and the missy's name Mimi. They raise us both in the house and they love us so they
spoil us. I never will forget that. The little white chillen was younger than me, 'bout Felice's
age. They sho' had pretty li'l curly black hair.

"Us didn't have hard time. Never even knowed hard time. That old massa, he what you call a
good man.

"Us daddy was Renee and he work in the field. The old massa give him a mud and log house and
a plot of ground for he own. The rain sho' never get in that log house, it so tight. The furniture
was homemake, but my daddy make it good and stout.

"Us daddy he work de ground he own on Sunday and sold the things to buy us shoes to put on
us feet and clothes. The white folks didn't give us clothes but they let him have all the money
he made in his own plot to get them.

"Us mama name Marguerite and she a field hand, too, so us chillen growed up in the white folks
house mostly. 'Fore Felice get big enough to leave I stay in the big house and take care of her.

"One day us papa fall sick in the bed, just 'fore freedom, and he kep' callin' for the priest.
Old massa call the priest and just 'fore us papa die the priest marry him and my mama. 'fore
dat they just married by the massa's word.

"Felice and me, us have two brothers what was born and die in slavery, and one sister still
livin' in Bolivar now. Us three uncles, Bruno and Pophrey and Zaphrey, they goes to the war.
Them three dies too young. The Yankees stole them and make them boys fight for them.

"I never done much work but wash the dishes. They wasn't poor people and they uses good dishes.
The missy real particular 'bout us shinin' them dishes nice, and the silver spoons and knives, too.

"Them white people was good Christian people and they christen us both in the old brick Catholic
church in Opelousas. They done torn it down now. Missy give me pretty dress to get christen
in. My godmother, she Mileen Nesaseau, but I call her 'Miran'. My godfather called 'Paran.'

"On Sunday mornin' us fix our dress and hair and go up to the missy's looking-glass to see
if us pretty enough go to church. Us goes to Mass every Sunday mornin' and church holiday,
and when the cullud folks sick massa send for the priest same's for the white folks.

"We wears them things on the strings round the neck for the good of the heart. They's nutmeg.

"The plantation was a big, grand place and they have lots of orange trees. The slaves pick
them oranges and pack then down on the barrel with la mosse (Spanish moss) to keep them. They
was plenty pecans and figs, too.

"In slavery time most everybody round Opelousas talk Creole. That make the words hard to come
sometime. Us both talk that better way than English.

"Durin' the war, it were a sight. Every mornin' Capt. Jenerette Bank and he men go a hoss-back
drillin' in the pasture and then have drill on foot. A white lady take all us chillen to the
drill ground every mornin'. Us take the lunch food in the basket and stay till they done drill out.

"I can sing for you the song they used to sing:

  "O, de Yankee come to put de nigger free,
    Says I, says I, pas bonne;
      In eighteen-sixty-three,
  De Yankee get out they gun and say,
  Hurrah! Let's put on the ball.

"When war over none the slaves wants leave the plantation. My mama and us chillen stays on
till old massa and missy dies, and then goes live on the old Repridim place for a time.

"Both us get marry in that Catholic church in Opelousas. As for me, it most too long ago to
talk about. His name Alfred Johnson and he dead 12 years. Our youngest boy, John, go to the
World War. Two my nephews die in that war and one nephew can't walk now from that war.

"Felice marry Joseph Boudreaux and when he die she come here to stay with me. There's more
hard time now than in the old day for us, but I hope things get better.

420103

     SPENCE JOHNSON was born free, a member of the Choctaw Nation, in
     the Indian Territory, in the 1850's. He does not know his exact
     age. He and his mother were stolen and sold at auction in
     Shreveport to Riley Surratt, who lived near Shreveport, on the
     Texas-Louisiana line. He has lived in Waco since 1874.

"De nigger stealers done stole me and my mammy out'n de Choctaw Nation, up in de Indian Territory,
when I was 'bout three years old. Brudder Knox, Sis Hannah, and my mammy and her two step-chillun
was down on de river washin'. De nigger stealers driv up in a big carriage and mammy jus' thought
nothin', 'cause the road was near dere and people goin' on de road stopped to water de horses
and res' awhile in de shade. By'n by, a man coaxes de two bigges' chillun to de carriage and
give dem some kind-a candy. Other chillun sees dis and goes, too. Two other men was walkin'
'round smokin' and gettin' closer to mammy all de time. When he kin, de man in de carriage
got de two big step-chillun in with him and me and sis' clumb in too, to see how come. Den
de man holler, 'Git de ole one and let's git from here.' With dat de two big men grab mammy
and she fought and screeched and bit and cry, but dey hit her on de head with something and
drug her in, and throwed her on de floor. De big chilluns begin to fight for mammy, but one
of de men hit 'em hard and off dey driv, with de horses under whip.

"Dis was near a place called Boggy Depot. Dey went down de Red Ribber, 'cross de ribber and
on down in Louisian to Shreveport. Down in Louisan us was put on what dey call de 'block' and
sol' to de highes' bidder. My mammy and her three chillun brung $3,000 flat. De step chillun
was sol' to somebody else, but us was bought by Marse Riley Surratt. He was de daddy of Jedge
Marshall Surratt, him who got to be jedge here in Waco.

"Marse Riley Surratt had a big plantation; don't know how many acres, but dere was a factory
and gins and big houses and lots of nigger quarters. De house was right on de Tex-Louisan line.
Mammy cooked for 'em. When Marse Riley bought her, she couldn' speak nothin' but de Choctaw
words. I was a baby when us lef' de Choctaw country. My sister looked like a full blood Choctaw
Indian and she could pass for a real full blood Indian. Mammy's folks was all Choctaw Indians.
Her sisters was Polly Hogan, and Sookey Hogan and she had a brudder, Nolan Tubby. Dey was all
known in de Territory in de ole days.

"Near as Marse Riley's books can come to it, I mus' of been bo'n 'round 1859, up in de Territory.

"Us run de hay press to bale cotton on de plantation and took cotton by ox wagons to Shreveport.
Seven or eight wagons in a train, with three or four yoke of steers to each wagon. Us made
'lasses and cloth and shoes and lots of things. Old Marse Riley had a nigger who could make
shoes and if he had to go to court in Carthage, he'd leave nigger make shoes for him.

"De quarters was a quarter mile long, all strung out on de creek bank. Our cabin was nex' de
big house. De white folks give big balls and had supper goin' all night. Us had lots to eat
and dey let us have dances and suppers, too. We never go anywhere. Mammy always cry and 'fraid
of bein' stole again.

"Dere was a white man live close to us, but over in Louisan. He had raised him a great big
black man what brung fancy price on de block. De black man sho' love dat white man. Dis white
man would sell ole John--dat's de black man's name--on de block to some man from Georgia or
other place fur off. Den, after 'while de white man would steal ole John back and bring him
home and feed him good, den sell him again. After he had sol' ole John some lot of times, he
coaxed ole John off in de swamp one day and ole John foun' dead sev'ral days later. De white
folks said dat de owner kilt him, 'cause 'a dead nigger won't tell no tales.'

"Durin' de Freedom War, I seed soldiers all over de road. Dey was breakin' hosses what dey
stole. Us skeered and didn' let soldiers see us if we could he'p it. Mammy and I stayed on
with Marse Riley after Freedom and till I was 'bout sixteen. Den Marse Riley died and I come
to Waco in a wagon with Jedge Surratt's brother, Marse Taylor Surratt. I come to Waco de same
year dat Dr. Lovelace did, and he says that was 1874. I married and us had six chillun.

"I can't read or write, 'cause I only went to school one day. De white folks tried to larn
me, but I's too thickheaded.

420244

     HARRIET JONES, 93, was born a slave of Martin Fullbright, who owned
     a large plantation in North Carolina. When he died his daughter,
     Ellen, became Harriet's owner, and was so kind to Harriet that she
     looks back on slave years as the happiest time in her life.

"My daddy and mammy was Henry and Zilphy Guest and Marse Martin Fullbright brung dem from North
Carolina to Red River County, in Texas, long 'fore freedom, and settled near Clarksville. I
was one of dere eight chillen and borned in 1844 and am 93 years old. My folks stayed with
Marse Martin and he daughter, Miss Ellen, till dey went to de reward where dey dies no more.

"De plantation raise corn and oats and wheat and cotton and hawgs and cattle and hosses, and
de neares' place to ship to market am at Jefferson, Texas, ninety miles from Clarksville, den
up river to Shreveport and den to Memphis or New Orleans. Dey send cotton by wagon train to
Jefferson but mostly by boat up de bayou.

"When Marse Martin die he 'vide us slaves to he folks and I falls to he daughter, Miss Ellen.
Iffen ever dere was a angel on dis earth she was it. I hopes wherever it is, her spirit am
in glory.

"When Miss Ellen marry Marse Johnnie Watson, she have me fix her up. She have de white satin
dress and pink sash and tight waist and hoop skirt, so she have to go through de door sideways.
De long curls I made hang down her shoulders and a bunch of pink roses in de hand. She look
like a angel.

"All de fine folks in Clarksville at dat weddin' and dey dances in de big room after de weddin'
supper. It was de grand time but it make me cry, 'cause Miss Ellen done growed up. When she
was a li'l gal she wore de sweetes' li'l dresses and panties with de lace ruffles what hung
down below her skirt, and de jacket button in de back and shoes from soft leather de shoeman
tan jus' for her. When she li'l bigger she wear de tucked petticoats, two, three at a time
to take place of hoops, but she still wear de white panties with lace ruffles what hang below
de skirt 'bout a foot. Where dey gone now? I ain't seed any for sich a long time!

"When de white ladies go to church in dem hoop skirts, dey has to pull dem up in da back to
set down. After freedom dey wears de dresses long with de train and has to hold up de train
when dey goes in de church, lessen dey has de li'l nigger to go 'long and hold it up for dem.

"All us house women larned to knit de socks and head mufflers, and many is de time I has went
to town and traded socks for groceries. I cooked, too, and helped 'fore old Marse died. For
everyday cookin' we has corn pone and potlicker and bacon meat and mustard and turnip greens,
and good, old sorghum 'lasses. On Sunday we has chicken or turkey or roast pig and pies and
cakes and hot, salt-risin' bread.

"When folks visit dem days dey do it right and stays several days, maybe a week or two. When
de quality folks comes for dinner, Missie show me how to wait on table. I has to come in when
she ring de bell, and hold de waiter for food jus' right. For de breakfas' we has coffee and
hot waffles what my mammy make.

"Dere was a old song we used to sing 'bout de hoecake, when we cookin' dem:

  "'If you wants to bake a hoecake,
  To bake it good and done,
  Slap it on a nigger's heel,
  And hold it to de sun.

  "'My mammy baked a hoecake,
  As big as Alabama,
  She throwed it 'gainst a nigger's head,
  It ring jus' like a hammer.

  "'De way you bake a hoecake,
  De old Virginny way,
  Wrap it round a nigger's stomach,
  And hold it dere all day.'

"Dat de life we lives with old and young marse and missie, for dey de quality folks of old Texas.

"'Bout time for de field hands to go to work, it gittin' mighty hot down here, so dey go by
daylight when it cooler. Old Marse have a horn and 'long 'bout four o'clock it 'gin to blow,
and you turn over and try take 'nother nap, den it goes arguin', b l o w, how loud dat old
horn do blow, but de sweet smell de air and de early breeze blowin' through de trees, and de
sun peepin' over de meadow, make you glad to git up in de early mornin'.

  "'It's a cool and frosty mornin'
  And de niggers goes to work,
  With hoes upon dey shoulders,
  Without a bit of shirt.'

"'When dey hears de horn blow for dinner it am de race, and dey sings:

  "'I goes up on de meatskins,
  I comes down on de pone--
  I hits de corn pone fifty licks,
  And makes dat butter moan.'

"De timber am near de river and de bayou and when dey not workin' de hosses or no other work,
we rides down and goes huntin' with de boys, for wild turkeys and prairie chickens, but dey
like bes' to hunt for coons and possums.

  "'Possum up de gum stump,
  Raccoon in de hollow--
  Git him down and twist him out,
  And I'll give you a dollar.'

"Come Christmas, Miss Ellen say, 'Harriet, have de Christmas Tree carry in and de holly and
evergreens.' Den she puts de candles on de tree and hangs de stockin's up for de white chillen
and de black chillen. Nex' mornin', everybody up 'fore day and somethin' for us all, and for
de men a keg of cider or wine on de back porch, so dey all have a li'l Christmas spirit.

"De nex' thing am de dinner, serve in de big dinin' room, and dat dinner! De onlies' time what
I ever has sich a good dinner am when I gits married and when Miss Ellen marries Mr. Johnnie.
After de white folks eats, dey watches de servants have dey dinner.

"Den dey has guitars and banjoes and fiddles and plays old Christmas tunes, den dat night marse
and missie brung de chillen to de quarters, to see de niggers have dey dance. 'Fore de dance
dey has Christmas supper, on de long table out in de yard in front de cabins, and have wild
turkey or chicken and plenty good things to eat. When dey all through eatin', dey has a li'l
fire front de main cabins where de dancin' gwine be. Dey moves everything out de cabin 'cept
a few chairs. Next come de fiddler and banjo-er and when dey starts, de caller call, 'Heads
lead off,' and de first couple gits in middle de floor, and all de couples follow till de cabin
full. Next he calls, 'Sashay to de right, and do-si-do.' Round to de right dey go, den he calls,
'Swing you partners, and dey swing dem round twice, and so it go till daylight come, den he
sing dis song:

  "'Its gittin' mighty late when de Guinea hen squall,
  And you better dance now if you gwine dance a-tall--
  If you don't watch out, you'll sing 'nother tune,
  For de sun rise and cotch you, if you don't go soon,
  For de stars gittin' paler and de old gray coon
  Is sittin' in de grapevine a-watchin' de moon.'

"Den de dance break up with de Virginny Reel, and it de end a happy Christmas day. De old marse
lets dem frolic all night and have nex' day to git over it, 'cause its Christmas.

"'Fore freedom de soldiers pass by our house and stop ask mammy to cook dem something to eat,
and when de Yankees stop us chillen hides. Once two men stays two, three weeks lookin' round,
pretends dey gwine buy land. But when de white folks gits 'spicious, dey leaves right sudden,
and it turn out dey's Yankee spies.

"I marries Bill Jones de year after freedom. It a bright, moonlight night and all de white
folks and niggers come and de preacher stand under de big elm tree, and I come in with two
li'l pickininnies for flower gals and holdin' my train. I has on one Miss Ellen's dresses and
red stockin's and a pair brand new shoes and a wide brim hat. De preacher say, 'Bill, does
you take dis woman to be you lawful wife?' and Bill say he will. Den he say, 'Harriet, will
you take dis nigger to be you lawful boss and do jes' what he say?' Den we signs de book and
de preacher say, 'I quotes from de scripture:

  "'Dark and stormy may come de weather,
  I jines dis man and woman together.
  Let none but Him what make de thunder,
  Put dis man and woman asunder.'

"Den we goes out in de backyard, where de table sot for supper, a long table made with two
planks and de peg legs. Miss Ellen puts on de white tablecloth and some red berries, 'cause
it am November and dey is ripe. Den she puts on some red candles, and we has barbecue pig and
roast sweet 'taters and dumplin's and pies and cake. Dey all eats dis grand supper till dey
full and mammy give me de luck charm for de bride. It am a rabbit toe, and she say:

  "'Here, take dis li'l gift,
  And place it near you heart;
  It keep away dat li'l riff
  What causes folks to part.

  "'It only jes' a rabbit toe,
  But plenty luck it brings,
  Its worth a million dimes or more,
  More'n all de weddin' rings.'

"Den we goes to Marse Watson's saddleshop to dance and dances all night, and de bride and groom,
dat's us, leads de grand march.

"De Yankees never burned de house or nothin', so Young Marse and Missie jes' kep' right on
livin' in de old home after freedom, like old Marse done 'fore freedom. He pay de families
by de day for work and let dem work land on de halves and furnish dem teams and grub and dey
does de work.

"But bye'n-bye times slow commence to change, and first one and 'nother de old folks goes on
to de Great Beyon', one by one dey goes, till all I has left am my great grandchild what I
lives with now. My sister was livin' at Greenville six years ago. She was a hundred and four
years old den. I don't know if she's livin' now or not. How does we live dat long? Way back
yonder 'fore I's born was a blessin' handed down from my great, great, grandfather. It de blessin'
of long life, and come with a blessin' of good health from livin' de clean, hones' life. When
nighttime come, we goes to bed and to sleep, and dat's our blessin'.

420057

     LEWIS JONES, 86, was born a slave to Fred Tate, who owned a large
     plantation on the Colorado River in Fayette Co., Texas. Lewis'
     father was born a slave to H. Jones and was sold to Fred Tate, who
     used him as a breeder to build up his slave stock. Lewis took his
     father's name after Emancipation, and worked for twenty-three years
     in a cotton gin at La Grange. He came to Fort Worth in 1896 and
     worked for Armour & Co. until 1931. Lewis lives at 3304 Loving
     Ave., Fort Worth, Texas.

"My birth am in de year 1851 on de plantation of Massa Fred Tate, what am on de Colorado River.
Yes, suh, dat am in de state of Texas. My mammy am owned by Massa Tate and so am my pappy and
all my brudders and sisters. How many brudders and sisters? Lawd A-mighty! I'll tell you 'cause
you asks and dis nigger gives de facts as 'tis. Let's see, I can't 'lect de number. My pappy
have 12 chillen by my mammy and 12 by anudder nigger name Mary. You keep de count. Den dere
am Liza, him have 10 by her, and dere am Mandy, him have 8 by her, and dere am Betty, him have
six by her. Now, let me 'lect some more. I can't bring de names to mind, but dere am two or
three other what have jus' one or two chillen by my pappy. Dat am right. Close to 50 chillen,
'cause my mammy done told me. It's disaway, my pappy am de breedin' nigger.

"You sees, when I meets a nigger on dat plantation, I's most sho' it am a brudder or sister,
so I don't try keep track of 'em.

"Massa Tate didn't give rations to each family like lots of massas, but him have de cookhouse
and de cooks, and all de rations cooked by dem and all us niggers sat down to de long tables.
Dere am plenty, plenty. I sho' wishes I could have some good rations like dat now. Man, some
of dat ham would go fine. Dat was 'Ham, what am.'

"We'uns raise all de food right dere on de place. Hawgs? We'uns have three, four hundred and
massa raise de corn and feed dem and cure de meat. We'uns have de cornmeal and de wheat flour
and all de milk and butter we wants, 'cause massa have 'bout 30 cows. And dere am de good old
'lasses, too.

"Massa feed powerful good and he am not onreas'ble. He don't whup much and am sho' reas'ble
'bout de pass, and he 'low de parties and have de church on de place. Old Tom am de preacherman
and de musician and him play de fiddle and banjo. Sometime dey have jig contest, dat when dey
puts de glass of water on de head and see who can jig de hardes' without spillin' de water.
Den dere am joyment in de singin'. Preacher Tom set all us niggers in de circle and sing old
songs. I jus' can't sing for you, 'cause I's lost my teeth and my voice am raspin', but I'll
word some, sich as

  "'In de new Jerusalem,
  In de year of Jubilee.'

"I done forgit de words. Den did you ever hear dis one:

  "'Oh, do, what Sam done, do dat again,
  He went to de hambone, bit off de end.'

"When Old Tom am preacherman, him talks from he heartfelt. Den sometime a white preacherman
come and he am de Baptist and baptize we'uns.

"Massa have de fine coach and de seat for de driver am up high in front and I's de coachman
and he dresses me nice and de hosses am fine, white team. Dere I's sat up high, all dress good,
holdin' a tight line 'cause de team am full of spirit and fast. We'uns goes lickity split and
it am a purty sight. Man, 'twarnt anyone bigger dan dis nigger.

"I has de bad luck jus' one time with dat team and it am disaway: massa have jus' change de
power for de gin from hoss to steam and dey am ginnin' cotton and I's with dat team 'side de
house and de hosses am a-prancin' and waitin' for missy to come out. Massa am in de coach.
Den, de fool niggers blows de whistle of dat steam engine and de hosses never heered sich befo'
and dey starts to run. Dey have de bit in de teeths and I's lucky dat road am purty straight.
I thinks of massa bein' inside de coach and wants to save him. I says to myself, 'Dem hosses
skeert and I don't want to skeer 'em no more.' I jus' hold de lines steady and keep sayin',
'Steady, boys, whoa boys.' Fin'ly dey begins to slow down and den stops and massa gits out
and de hosses am puffin' hard and all foam. He turns to me and say, 'Boy, you's made a wonnerful
drive, like a vet'ran.' Now, does dat make me feel fine! It sho' do.

"When surrender come I's been drivin' 'bout a year and it's 'bout 11 o'clock in de mornin',
'cause massa have me ring de bell and all de niggers runs quick to de house and massa say dey
am free niggers. It am time for layin' de crops by and he say if dey do dat he pay 'em. Some
stays and some goes off, but mammy and pappy and me stays. Dey never left dat plantation, and
I stays 'bout 8 years. I guess it dat coachman job what helt me.

"When I quits I goes to work for Ed Mattson in La Grange and I works in dat cotton gin 18 years.
Fin'ly I comes here to Fort Worth. Dat am 1896. I works for Armours 20 years but dey let me
off six years ago, 'cause I's too old. Since den I works at any little old job, for to make
my livin'.

"Sho', I's been married and it to Jane Owen in La Grange, and we'uns have three chillen and
dey all dead. She died in 1931.

"It am hard for dis nigger to git by and sometime I don't know for sho' dat I's gwine git anudder
meal, but it allus come some way. Yes, suh, dey allus come some way. Some of de time dey is
far apart, but dey comes. De Lawd see to dat, I guess.

420148

     LIZA JONES, 81, was born a slave of Charley Bryant, near Liberty,
     Texas. She lives in Beaumont, and her little homestead is reached
     by a devious path through a cemetery and across a ravine on a plank
     foot-bridge. Liza sat in a backless chair, smoking a pipe, and her
     elderly son lay on a blanket nearby. Both were resting after a hot
     day's work in the field. Within the open door could be seen Henry
     Jones, Liza's husband for sixty years, a tall, gaunt Negro who is
     helpless. Blind, deaf and almost speechless, he could tell nothing
     of slavery days, although he was grown when the war ended.

"When de Yankees come to see iffen dey had done turn us a-loose, I am a nine year old nigger
gal. That make me about 81 now. Dey promenade up to de gate and de drum say a-dr-um-m-m-m-m,
and de man in de blue uniform he git down to open de gate. Old massa he see dem comin' and
he runned in de house and grab up de gun. When he come hustlin' down off de gallery, my daddy
come runnin'. He seed old massa too mad to know what he a-doin', so quicker dan a chicken could
fly he grab dat gun and wrastle it outten old massa's hands. Den he push old massa in de smokehouse
and lock de door. He ain't do dat to be mean, but he want to keep old massa outten trouble.
Old massa know dat, but he beat on de door and yell, but it ain't git open till dem Yankees
done gone.

"I wisht old massa been a-livin' now, I'd git a piece of bread and meat when I want it. Old
man Charley Bryant, he de massa, and Felide Bryant de missus. Dey both have a good age when
freedom come.

"My daddy he George Price and he boss nigger on de place. Dey all come from Louisiana, somewhere
round New Orleans and all dem li'l extra places.

"Liz'beth she my mama and dey's jus' two us chillen, me and my brudder, John. He lives in Beaumont.

"'Bout all de work I did was 'tend to de rooms and sweep. Nobody ever 'low us to see nobody
'bused. I never seed or heared of nobody gittin' cut to pieces with a whip like some. Course,
chillen wasn't 'lowed to go everywhere and see everything like dey does now. Dey jump in every
corner now.

"Miss Flora and Miss Molly am de only ones of my white folks what am alive now and dey done
say dey take me to San Antonio with dem. Course, I couldn't go now and leave Henry, noway.
De old Bryant place am in de lawsuit. Dey say de brudder, Mister Benny, he done sharped it
'way from de others befo' he die, but I 'lieve the gals will win dat lawsuit.

"My daddy am de gold pilot on de old place. Dat mean anything he done was right and proper.
Way after freedom, when my daddy die in Beaumont, Cade Bryant and Mister Benny both want to
see him befo' he buried. Dey ride in and say, 'Better not you bury him befo' us see him. Dat's
us young George.' Dey allus call daddy dat, but he old den.

"My mama was de spring back cook and turkey baker. Dey call her dat, she so neat, and cook
so nice. I's de expert cook, too. She larnt me.

"Us chillen used to sing

  "'Don't steal,
  Don't steal my sugar.
  Don't steal,
  Don't steal my candy.
  I's comin' round de mountain.'

"Dey sho' have better church in dem days dan now. Us git happy and shout. Dey too many blind
taggers now. Now dey say dey got de key and dey ain't got nothin'. Us used to sing like dis:

  "'Adam's fallen race,
  Good Lawd, hang down my head and cry.
  Help me to trust him,
  Help me to trust him,
  Help me to trust him,
     Gift of Gawd.

  "'Help me to trust him,
  Help me to trust him,
  Help me to trust him,
     Eternal Life.

  "'Had not been for Adam's race,
  I wouldn't been sinnin' today,
  Help me to trust him,
     Gift of Gawd.'

"Dey 'nother hymn like dis:

  "'Heavenly land,
  Heavenly land,
  I's gwineter beg Gawd,
  For dat Heavenly land.

  "'Some come cripplin',
  Some come lame,
  Some come walkin',
  In Jesus' name.'

"You know I saw you-all last night in my sleep? I ain't never seed you befo' today, but I seed
you last night. Dey's two of you, a man and a woman, and you come crost dat bridge and up here,
askin' me iffen I trust in de Lawd. And here you is today.

"Dey had nice parties in slavery time and right afterwards. Dey have candy pullin' and corn
shuckin's and de like. Old Massa Day and Massa Bryant, dey used to put dey niggers together
and have de prize dances. Massa Day allus lose, 'cause us allus beat he niggers at dancin'.
Lawd, when I clean myself up, I sho' could teach dem how to buy a cake-walk in dem days. I
could cut de pigeon wing, jes' pull my heels up and clack dem together. Den us do de back step
and de banquet, too.

"Us allus have de white tarleton Swiss dress for dances and Sunday. Dem purty good clothes,
too and dey make at home. Us knowed how to sew and one de old man's gals, she try teach me
readin' and writin'. I didn't have no sense, though, and I cry to go out and play.

"When freedom come old massa he done broke down and cry, so my daddy stay with him. He stay
a good many year, till both us chillen was growed. Us have de li'l log house on de place all
dat time. Dey 'nother old cullud man what stay, name George Whitehouse. He have de li'l house,
too. He stay till he die.

"Dey was tryin' to make a go of it after de war, 'cause times was hard. De white boys, dey
go out in de field and work den, and work hard, 'cause dey don't have de slaves no more. I
used to see de purty, young white ladies, all dress up, comin' to de front door. I slips out
and tell de white boys, and dey workin' in de field, half-naked and dirty, and dey sneak in
de back door and clean up to spark dem gals.

"I been marry to dat Henry in dere sixty year, and he was a slave in Little Rock, in Arkansas,
for Anderson Jones. Henry knowed de bad, tejous part of de war and he must be 'bout 96 year
old. Now he am in pain all de time. Can't see, can't hear and can't talk. Us never has had
de squabble. At de weddin' de white folks brung cakes and every li'l thing. I had a white tarleton
dress with de white tarleton wig. Dat de hat part what go over de head and drape on de shoulder.
Dat de sign you ain't never done no wrong sin and gwinter keep bein' good.

"After us marry I move off de old place, but nothin' must do but I got to keep de house for
Mister Benny. I's cleanin' up one time and finds a milk churn of money. I say, 'Mr. Benny,
what for you ain't put dat money in de bank?' He say he will. De next time I cleanin' up I
finds a pillow sack full of money. I says, 'Mr. Benny, I's gwineter quit. I ain't gwineter
be 'sponsible for dis money.' He's sick den and I put de money under he pillow and git ready
to go. He say, 'You better stay, or I send Andrew, de sheriff, after you.' I goes and cooks
dinner and when I gits back dey has four doctors with Mr. Benny. He wife say to me, 'Liza,
you got de sight. Am Benny gwineter git well?' I goes and looks and I knowed he gwine way from
dere. I knowed he was gone den. Dey leant on me a heap after dat.

"It some years after dat I leaves dem and Henry and me gits married and us make de livin' farmin'.
Us allus stays right round hereabouts and gits dis li'l house. Now my son and me, us work de
field and gits 'nough to git through on.

420089

     LIZZIE JONES, an 86 year old ex-slave of the R.H. Hargrove family,
     was born in 1861, in Harrison County, Texas. She stayed with her
     owner until four years after the close of the Civil War. She now
     lives with Talmadge Buchanan, a grandson, two miles east of
     Karnack, on the Lee road.

"I was bo'n on the ole Henry Hargrove place. My ole missus was named Elizabeth and mammy called
me Lizzie for her. But the Hargroves called me 'Wink' since I was a chile, 'cause I was so
black and shiny. Massa Hargrove had four girls and four boys and I helped tend them till I
was big enough to cook and keep house. I wagged ole Marse Dr. Hargrove, dat lives in Marshall,
round when he was a baby.

"I allus lived in de house with the white folks and ate at their table when they was through,
and slep' on the floor. We never had no school or church in slavery time. The niggers couldn'
even add. None of us knowed how ole we was, but Massa set our ages down in a big book.

"I 'member playin' peep-squirrel and marbles and keepin' house when I was a chile. Massa 'lowed
the boys and girls to cou't but they couldn' marry 'fore they was 20 years ole, and they couldn'
marry off the plantation. Slaves warn't married by no Good Book or the law, neither. They'd
jes' take up with each other and go up to the Big House and ask massa to let them marry. If
they was ole enough, he'd say to the boy, 'Take her and go on home.'

"Mammy lived 'cross the field at the quarters and there was so many nigger shacks it look like
a town. The slaves slep' on bunks of homemade boards nailed to de wall with poles for legs
and they cooked on the fireplace. I didn' know what a stove was till after de War. Sometime
they'd bake co'nbread in the ashes and every bit of the grub they ate come from the white folks
and the clothes, too. I run them looms many a night, weavin' cloth. In summer we had lots of
turnips and greens and garden stuff to eat. Massa allus put up sev'ral barrels of kraut and
a smokehouse full of po'k for winter. We didn' have flour or lard, but huntin' was good 'fore
de war and on Sat'day de men could go huntin' and fishin' and catch possum and rabbits and
squirrels and coons.

"The overseer was named Wade and he woke the han's up at four in the mornin' and kep' them
in the field from then till the sun set. Mos' of de women worked in de fields like de men.
They'd wash clothes at night and dry them by the fire. The overseer kep' a long coach whip
with him and if they didn' work good, he'd thrash them good. Sometime he's pretty hard on them
and strip 'em off and whip 'em till they think he was gonna kill 'em. No nigger ever run off
as I 'member.

"We never have no parties till after 'mancipation, and we couldn' go off de place. On Sundays
we slep' or visited each other. But the white folks was good to us. Massa Hargrove didn' have
no doctor but there wasn' much sickness and seldom anybody die.

"I don' 'member much 'bout de War. Massa went to it, but he come home shortly and say he sick
with the 'sumption, but he got well real quick after surrender.

"The white folks didn' let the niggers know they was free till 'bout a year after the war.
Massa Hargrove took sick sev'ral months after and 'fore he did he tell the folks not to let
the niggers loose till they have to. Finally they foun' out and 'gun to leave.

"My pappy died 'fore I was bo'n and mammy married Caesar Peterson and 'bout a year after de
war dey moved to a farm close to Lee, but I kep' on workin' for de Hargroves for four years,
helpin' missus cook and keep house.

420288

     TOBY JONES was born in South Carolina, in 1850, a slave of Felix
     Jones, who owned a large tobacco plantation. Toby has farmed in
     Madisonville, Texas, since 1869, and still supports himself, though
     his age makes it hard for him to work.

"My father's name was Eli Jones and mammy's name was Jessie. They was captured in Africa and
brought to this country whilst they was still young folks, and my father was purty hard to
realize he was a slave, 'cause he done what he wanted back in Africa.

"Our owner was Massa Felix Jones and he had lots of tobacco planted. He was real hard on us
slaves and whipped us, but Missie Janie, she was a real good woman to her black folks. I 'members
when their li'l curlyheaded Janie was borned. She jus' loved this old, black nigger and I carried
her on my back whole days at a time. She was the sweetes' baby ever borned.

"Massa, he lived in a big, rock house with four rooms and lots of shade trees, and had 'bout
fifty slaves. Our livin' quarters wasn't bad. They was rock, too, and beds built in the corners,
with straw moss to sleep on.

"We had plenty to eat, 'cause the woods was full of possum and rabbits and all the mud holes
full of fish. I sho' likes a good, old, fat possum cooked with sweet 'taters round him. We
cooked meat in a old-time pot over the fireplace or on a forked stick. We grated corn by hand
for cornbread and made waterpone in the ashes.

"I was borned 'bout 1850, so I was plenty old to 'member lots 'bout slave times. I 'members
the loyal clothes, a long shirt what come down below our knees, opened all the way down the
front. On Sunday we had white loyal shirts, but no shoes and when it was real cold we'd wrap
our feet in wool rags so they wouldn't freeze. I married after freedom and had white loyal
breeches. I wouldn't marry 'fore that, 'cause massa wouldn't let me have the woman I wanted.

"The overseer was a mean white man and one day he starts to whip a nigger what am hoein' tobacco,
and he whipped him so hard that nigger grabs him and made him holler. Missie come out and made
them turn loose and massa whipped that nigger and put him in chains for a whole year. Every
night he had to be in jail and couldn't see his folks for that whole year.

"I seed slaves sold, and they'd make them clean up good and grease their hands and face, so
they'd look real fat, and sell them off. Of course, most the niggers didn't know their parents
or what chillen was theirs. The white folks didn't want them to git 'tached to each other.

"Missie read some Bible to us every Sunday mornin' and taught us to do right and tell the truth.
But some them niggers would go off without a pass and the patterrollers would beat them up
scand'lous.

"The fun was on Saturday night when massa 'lowed us to dance. There was lots of banjo pickin'
and tin pan beatin' and dancin', and everybody would talk 'bout when they lived in Africa and
done what they wanted.

"I worked for massa 'bout four years after freedom, 'cause he forced me to, said he couldn't
'ford to let me go. His place was near ruint, the fences burnt and the house would have been
but it was rock. There was a battle fought near his place and I taken missie to a hideout in
the mountains to where her father was, 'cause there was bullets flyin' everywhere. When the
war was over, massa come home and says, 'You son of a gun, you's sposed to be free, but you
ain't, 'cause I ain't gwine give you freedom.' So, I goes on workin' for him till I gits the
chance to steal a hoss from him. The woman I wanted to marry, Govie, she 'cides to come to
Texas with me. Me and Govie, we rides that hoss most a hundred miles, then we turned him a-loose
and give him a scare back to his house, and come on foot the rest the way to Texas.

"All we had to eat was what we could beg and sometimes we went three days without a bite to
eat. Sometimes we'd pick a few berries. When we got cold we'd crawl in a breshpile and hug
up close together to keep warm. Once in awhile we'd come to a farmhouse and the man let us
sleep on cottonseed in his barn, but they was far and few between, 'cause they wasn't many
houses in the country them days like now.

"When we gits to Texas we gits married, but all they was to our weddin' am we jus' 'grees to
live together as man and wife. I settled on some land and we cut some trees and split them
open and stood them on end with the tops together for our house. Then we deadened some trees
and the land was ready to farm. There was some wild cattle and hawgs and that's the way we
got our start, caught some of them and tamed them.

"I don't know as I 'spected nothin' from freedom, but they turned us out like a bunch of stray
dogs, no homes, no clothin', no nothin', not 'nough food to last us one meal. After we settles
on that place, I never seed man or woman, 'cept Govie, for six years, 'cause it was a long
ways to anywhere. All we had to farm with was sharp sticks. We'd stick holes and plant corn
and when it come up we'd punch up the dirt round it. We didn't plant cotton, 'cause we couldn't
eat that. I made bows and arrows to kill wild game with and we never went to a store for nothin'.
We made our clothes out of animal skins.

"We used rabbit foots for good luck, tied round our necks. We'd make medicine out of wood herbs.
There is a rabbit foot weed that we mixed with sassafras and made good cough syrup. Then there
is cami weed for chills and fever.

"All I ever did was to farm and I made a livin'. I still makes one, though I'm purty old now
and its hard for me to keep the work up. I has some chickens and hawgs and a yearling or two
to sell every year.

420173

     AUNT PINKIE KELLY, whose age is a matter of conjecture, but who
     says she was "growed up when sot free," was born on a plantation in
     Brazoria Co., owned by Greenville McNeel, and still lives on what
     was a part of the McNeel plantation, in a little cabin which she
     says is much like the old slave quarters.

"De only place I knows 'bout is right here, what was Marse Greenville McNeel's plantation,
'cause I's born here and Marse Greenville and Missy Amelia, what was his wife, is de only ones
I ever belonged to. After de war, Marse Huntington come down from up north and took over de
place when Marse Greenville die, but de big house burned up and all de papers, too, and I couldn't
tell to save my life how old I is, but I's growed up and worked in de fields befo' I's sot free.

"My mammy's name was Harriet Jackson and she was born on de same plantation. My pappy's name
was Dan, but folks called him Good Cheer. He druv oxen and one day they show me him and say
he my pappy, and so I guess he was, but I can't tell much about him, 'cause chillen then didn't
know their pappys like chillen do now.

"Most I 'members 'bout them times is work, 'cause we's put out in de fields befo' day and come
back after night. Then we has to shell a bushel of corn befo' we goes to bed and we was so
tired we didn't have time for nothin'.

"Old man Jerry Driver watches us in de fields and iffen we didn't work hard he whip us and
whip us hard. Then he die and 'nother man call Archer come. He say, 'You niggers now, you don't
work good, I beat you,' and we sho' worked hard then.

"Marse Greenville treated us pretty good but he never give us nothin'. Sometime we'd run away
and hide in de woods for a spell, but when they cotch us Marse Greenville tie us down and whip
us so we don't do it no more.

"We didn't have no clothes like we do now, jes' cotton lowers and rubber shoes. They used to
feed us peas and cornbread and hominy, and sometime they threw beef in a pot and bile it, but
we never had hawg meat.

"Iffen we took sick, old Aunt Becky was de doctor. They was a building like what they calls
a hospital and she put us in there and give us calomel or turpentine, dependin' on what ailed
us. They allus kep' the babies there and let de mammies come in and suckle and dry 'em up.

"I never heered much 'bout no war and Marse Greenville never told us we was free. First I knows
was one day we gwine to de fields and a man come ridin' up and say, 'Whar you folks gwine?'
We say we gwine to de fields and then he say to Marse Greenville, 'You can't work these people,
without no pay, 'cause they's as free as you is.' Law, we sho' shout, young folks and old folks
too. But we stay there, no place to go, so we jes' stay, but we gits a little pay.

"After 'while I marries. Allen Kelley was de first husban' what I ever owned and he die. Houston
Edmond, he the las' husban' I ever owned and he die, too.

"Law me, they used to be a sayin' that chillen born on de dark of de moon ain't gwineter have
no luck, and I guess I sho' was born then!"

420217

     SAM KILGORE, 92, was born a slave of John Peacock, of Williams
     County, Tennessee, who owned one of the largest plantations in the
     south. When he was eight years old, Sam accompanied his master to
     England for a three-year stay. Sam was in the Confederate Army and
     also served in the Spanish-American War. He came to Fort Worth in
     1889 and learned cement work. In 1917 he started a cement
     contracting business which he still operates. He lives at 1211 E.
     Cannon St., Fort Worth, Texas.

"You asks me when I's born and was I born a slave. Well, I's born on July 17, 1845, so I's
a slave for twenty years, and had three massas. I's born in Williamson County, near Memphis,
in Tennessee. Massa John Peacock owned de plantation and am it de big one! Dere am a thousand
acres and 'bout a thousand slaves.

"De slave cabins am in rows, twenty in de first row and eighteen in de second and sixteen in
de third. Den dere am house servants quarters near de big house. De cabins am logs and not
much in dem but homemade tables and benches and bunks 'side de wall. Each family has dere own
cabin and sometimes dere am ten or more in de family, so it am kind of crowded. But massa am
good and let dem have de family life, and once each week de rations am measure out by a old
darky what have charge de com'sary, and dere am allus plenty to eat.

"But dem eats ain't like nowadays. It am home-cured meat and mostly cornmeal, but plenty veg'tables
and 'lasses and brown sugar. Massa raised lots of hawgs, what am Berkshires and Razorbacks.
Razorback meat am 'sidered de best and sweetest.

"De work stock am eighty head of mules and fifty head of hosses and fifteen yoke of oxen. It
took plenty feed for all dem and massa have de big field of corn, far as we could see. De plantation
am run on system and everything clean and in order, not like lots of plantations with tools
scattered 'round and dirt piles here and there. De chief overseer am white and de second overseers
am black. Stien was nigger overseer in de shoemakin' and harness, and Aunty Darkins am overseer
of de spinnin' and weavin'.

"Dat place am so well manage dat whippin's am not nec'sary. Massa have he own way of keepin'
de niggers in line. If dey bad he say, 'I 'spect dat nigger driver comin' round tomorrow and
I's gwine sell you.' Now, when a nigger git in de hands of de nigger driver it am de big chance
he'll git sold to de cruel massa, and dat make de niggers powerful skeert, so dey 'haves. On
de next plantation we'd hear de niggers pleadin' when dey's whipped, 'Massa, have mercy,' and
sich. Our massa allus say, 'Boys, you hears dat mis'ry and we don't want no sich on dis place
and it am up to you.' So us all 'haves ourselves.

"When I's four years old I's took to de big house by young Massa Frank, old massa's son. He
have me for de errand boy and, I guess, for de plaything. When I gits bigger I's his valet
and he like me and I sho' like him. He am kind and smart, too, and am choosed from nineteen
other boys to go to England and study at de mil'tary 'cademy. I's 'bout eight when we starts
for Liverpool. We goes from Memphis to Newport and takes de boat, Bessie. It am a sailboat
and den de fun starts for sho'. It am summer and not much wind and sometimes we jus' stand
still day after day in de fog so thick we can't see from one end de boat to de other.

"I'll never forgit dat trip. When we gits far out on de water, I's dead sho' we'll never git
back to land again. First I takes de seasick and dat am something. If there am anything worser
it can't be stood! It ain't possible to 'splain it, but I wants to die, and if dey's anything
worser dan dat seasick mis'ry, I says de Lawd have mercy on dem. I can't 'lieve dere am so
much stuff in one person, but plenty come out of me. I mos' raised de ocean! When dat am over
I gits homesick and so do Massa Frank. I cries and he tries to 'sole me and den he gits tears
in he eyes. We am weeks on dat water, and good old Tennessee am allus on our mind.

"When we gits to England it am all right, but often we goes down to de wharf and looks over
de cotton bales for dat Memphis gin mark. Couple times Massa Frank finds some and he say, 'Here
a bale from home, Sam,' with he voice full of joy like a kid what find some candy. We stands
round dat bale and wonders if it am raised on de plantation.

"But we has de good time after we gits 'quainted and I seed lots and gits to know some West
India niggers. But we's ready to come home and when we gits dere it am plenty war. Massa Frank
jines de 'Federate Army and course I's his valet and goes with him, right over to Camp Carpenter,
at Mobile. He am de lieutenant under General Gordon and befo' long dey pushes him higher. Fin'ly
he gits notice he am to be a colonel and dat sep'rates us, 'cause he has to go to Floridy.
'I's gwine with you,' I says, for I thinks I 'longs to him and he 'longs to me and can't nothing
part us. But he say, 'You can't go with me this time. Dey's gwine put you in de army.' Den
I cries and he cries.

"I's seventeen years old when I puts my hand on de book and am a sojer. I talks to my captain
'bout Massa Frank and wants to go to see him. But it wasn't more'n two weeks after he leaves
dat him was kilt. Dat am de awful shock to me and it am a long time befo' I gits over it. I
allus feels if I'd been with him maybe I could save his life.

"My company am moved to Birmingham and builds breastworks. Dey say Gen. Lee am comin' for a
battle but he didn't ever come and when I been back to see dem breastworks, dey never been
used. We marches north to Lexington, in Kentuck' but am gone befo' de battle to Louisville.
We comes back to Salem, in Georgia, but I's never in no big battle, only some skirmishes now
and den. We allus fixes for de battles and builds bridges and doesn't fight much.

"I goes back after de war to Memphis. My mammy am on de Kilgore place and Massa Kilgore takes
her and my pappy and two hundred other slaves and comes to Texas. Dat how I gits here. He settles
at de place called Kilgore, and it was named after him, but in 1867 he moves to Cleburne.

"Befo' we moved to Texas de Klu Kluxers done burn my mammy's house and she lost everything.
Dey was 'bout $100 in greenbacks in dat house and a three hundred pound hawg in de pen, what
die from de heat. We done run to Massa Rodger's house. De riders gits so bad dey come most
any time and run de cullud folks off for no cause, jus' to be orn'ry and plunder de home. But
one day I seed Massa Rodgers take a dozen guns out his wagon and he and some white men digs
a ditch round de cotton field close to de road. Couple nights after dat de riders come and
when dey gits near dat ditch a volley am fired and lots of dem draps off dey hosses. Dat ended
de Klux trouble in dat section.

"After I been in Texas a year I jines de Fed'ral Army for de Indian war. I's in de transportation
division and drives oxen and mules, haulin' supplies to de forts. We goes to Fort Griffin and
Dodge City and Laramie, in Wyoming. Dere am allus two or three hundred sojers with us, to watch
for Indian attacks. Dey travels on hosses, 'head, 'side and 'hind de wagon. One day de Sent'nel
reports Indians am round so we gits hid in de trees and bresh. On a high ledge off to de west
we sees de Indians travelin' north, two abreast. De lieutenant say he counted 'bout seven hundred
but dey sho' missed us, or maybe I'd not be here today.

"I stays in de service for seven years and den goes back to Johnson County, farmin' on de Rodgers
place, and stays till I comes to Fort Worth in 1889. Den I gits into 'nother war, de Spanish
'merican War. But I's in de com'sary work so don't see much fightin'. In all dem wars I sees
most no fightin', 'cause I allus works with de supplies.

"After dat war I goes to work laborin' for buildin' contractors. I works for sev'ral den gits
with Mr. Bardon and larns de cement work with him. He am awful good man to work for, dat John
Bardon. Fin'ly I starts my own cement business and am still runnin' it. My health am good and
I's allus on de job, 'cause dis home I owns has to be kept up. It cost sev'ral thousand dollars
and I can't 'ford to neglect it.

"I's married twict. I marries Mattie Norman in 1901 and sep'rates in 1904. She could spend
more money den two niggers could shovel it in. Den I marries Lottie Young in 1909, but dere
am no chillens. I's never dat lucky.

"I's voted ev'ry 'lection and 'lieves it de duty for ev'ry citizen to vote.

"Now, I's told you everything from Genesis to Rev'lations, and it de truth, as I 'members it.

420058

     BEN KINCHLOW, 91, was the son of Lizaer Moore, a half-white slave
     owned by Sandy Moore, Wharton Co., and Lad Kinchlow, a white man.
     When Ben was one year old his mother was freed and given some
     money. She was sent to Matamoras, Mexico and they lived there and
     at Brownsville, Texas, during the years before and directly
     following the Civil War. Ben and his wife, Liza, now live in
     Uvalde, Texas, in a neat little home. Ben has straight hair, a
     Roman nose, and his speech is like that of the early white settler.
     He is affable and enjoys recounting his experiences.

"I was birthed in 1846 in Wharton, Wharton County, in slavery times. My mother's name was Lizaer
Moore. I think her master's name was Sandy Moore, and she went by his name. My father's name
was Lad Kinchlow. My mother was a half-breed Negro; my father was a white man of that same
county. I don't know anything about my father. He was a white man, I know that. After I was
borned and was one year old, my mother was set free and sent to Mexico to live. When we left
Wharton, we was sent away in an ambulance. It was an old-time ambulance. It was what they called
an ambulance--a four-wheeled concern pulled by two mules. That is what they used to traffic
in. The big rich white folks would get in it and go to church or on a long journey. We landed
safely into Matamoros, Mexico, just me and my mother and older brother. She had the means to
live on till she got there and got acquainted. We stayed there about twelve years. Then we
moved back to Brownsville and stayed there until after all Negroes were free. She went to washing
and she made lots of money at it. She charged by the dozen. Three or four handkerchiefs were
considered a piece. She made good because she got $2.50 a dozen for men washing and $5 a dozen
for women's clothes.

"I was married in February, 1879, to Christiana Temple, married at Matagorda, Matagorda County.
I had six children by my first wife. Three boys and three girls. Two girls died. The other
girl is in Gonzales County. Lawrence is here workin' on the Kincaid Ranch and Andrew is workin'
for John Monagin's dairy and Henry is seventy miles from Alpine. He's a highway boss. This
was my first wife. Now I am married again and have been with this wife forty years. Her name
was Eliza Dawson. No children born to this union.

"The way we lived in those days--the country was full of wild game, deer, wild hogs, turkey,
duck, rabbits, 'possum, lions, quails, and so forth. You see, in them days they was all thinly
settled and they was all neighbors. Most settlements was all Meskins mostly; of course there
was a few white people. In them days the country was all open and a man could go in there and
settle down wherever he wanted to and wouldn't be molested a-tall. They wasn't molested till
they commenced putting these fences and putting up these barbwire fences. You could ride all
day and never open a gate. Maybe ride right up to a man's house and then just let down a bar
or two.

"Sometime when we wanted fresh meat we went out and killed. We also could kill a calf or goat
whenever we cared to because they were plenty and no fence to stop you. We also had plenty
milk and butter and home-made cheese. We did not have much coffee. You know the way we made
our coffee? We just taken corn and parched it right brown and ground it up. Whenever we would
get up furs and hides enough to go into market, a bunch of neighbors would get together and
take ten to fifteen deer hides each and take 'em in to Brownsville and sell 'em and get their
supplies. They paid twenty-five cents a pound for them. That's when we got our coffee, but
we'd got so used to using corn-coffee, we didn't care whether we had that real coffee so much,
because we had to be careful with our supplies, anyway. My recollection is that it was fifty
cents a pound and it would be green coffee and you would have to roast it and grind it on a
mill. We didn't have any sugar, and very rare thing to have flour. The deer was here by the
hundreds. There was blue quail--my goodness! You could get a bunch of these blue top-knot quail
rounded up in a bunch of pear and, if they was any rocks, you could kill every one of 'em.
If you could hit one and get 'im to fluttering the others would bunch around him and you could
kill every one of 'em with rocks.

"We lived very neighborly. When any of the neighbors killed fresh meat we always divided with
one another. We all had a corn patch, about three or four acres. We did not have plows; we
planted with a hoe. We were lucky in raisin' corn every year. Most all the neighbors had a
little bunch of goats, cows, mares, and hogs. Our nearest market was forty miles, at old Brownsville.
When I was a boy I wo'e what was called shirt-tail. It was a long, loose shirt with no pants.
I did not wear pants until I was about ten or twelve. The way we got our supplies, all the
neighbors would go in together and send into town in a dump cart drawn by a mule. The main
station was at Brownsville. It was thirty-five miles from where they'd change horses. They
carried this mail to Edinburg, and it took four days. Sometimes they'd ride a horse or mule.
We'd get our mail once a week. We got our mail at Brownsville.

"The country was very thinly settled then and of very few white people; most all Meskins, living
on the border. The country was open, no fences. Every neighbor had a little place. We didn't
have any plows; we planted with a hoe and went along and raked the dirt over with our toes.
We had a grist mill too. I bet I've turned one a million miles. There was no hired work then.
When a man was hired he got $10 or $12 per month, and when people wanted to brand or do other
work, all the neighbors went together and helped without pay. The most thing that we had to
fear was Indians and cattle rustlers and wild animals.

"While I was yet on the border, the plantation owners had to send their cotton to the border
to be shipped to other parts, so it was transferred by Negro slaves as drivers. Lots of times,
when these Negroes got there and took the cotton from their wagon, they would then be persuaded
to go across the border by Meskins, and then they would never return to their master. That
is how lots of Negroes got to be free. The way they used to transfer the cotton--these big
cotton plantations east of here--they'd take it to Brownsville and put it on the wharf and
ship it from there. I can remember seeing, during the cotton season, fifteen or twenty teams
hauling cotton, sometimes five or six, maybe eight bales on a wagon. You see, them steamboats
used to run all up and down that river. I think this cotton went out to market at New Orleans
and went right out into the Gulf.

"Our house was a log cabin with a log chimney da'bbed with mud. The cabin was covered with
grass for a roof. The fireplace was the kind of stove we had. Mother cooked in Dutch ovens.
Our main meal was corn bread and milk and grits with milk. That was a little bit coarser than
meal. The way we used to cook it and the best flavored is to cook it out-of-doors in a Dutch
oven. We called 'em corn dodgers. Now ash cakes, you have your dough pretty stiff and smooth
off a place in the ashes and lay it right on the ashes and cover it up with ashes and when
it got done, you could wipe every bit of the ashes off, and get you some butter and put on
it. M-m-m! I tell you, its fine! There is another way of cookin' flour bread without a skillet
or a stove, is to make up your dough stiff and roll it out thin and cut it in strips and roll
it on a green stick and just hold it over the coals, and it sure makes good bread. When one
side cooks too fast, you can just turn it over, and have your stick long enough to keep it
from burnin' your hands. How come me to learn this was: One time we were huntin' horse stock
and there was an outfit along and the pack mule that was packed with our provisions and skillets
and coffee pots and things--we never did carry much stuff, not even no beddin'--the pack turned
on the mule and we lost our skillet and none of us knowed it at the time. All of us was cooks,
but that old Meskin that was along was the only one that knew how to cook bread that way. Sometimes
we would be out six weeks or two months on a general round-up, workin' horse stock; the country
would just be alive with cattle, and horses too. We used to have lots of fun on those drives.

"I tell you, I didn't enjoy that 'court' at night. They got so tough on us you couldn't spit
in camp, couldn't use no cuss words--they would sure 'put the leggin's on you' if you did!"

Uncle Ben hitched his chair, and with much chuckling, recalled the "kangaroo court" the cowboys
used to hold at night in camp. These impromptu courts were often all the fun the cowboys had
during the long weeks of hunting stock in the open range country.

"Oh, it was all in fun. Just catch somebody so we could hold court! They would have two or
three as a jury. They would use me as sheriff and appoint a judge. The prisoner was turned
over to the judge and whatever he said, it had to be carried out exactly. The penalty? Well,
sometimes--it was owing to the crime--but sometimes they would put it up to about twenty licks
with the leggin's. If they was any bendin' trees, they would lay you across the log. They got
tough, all right, but we sure had fun. We had to salute the boss every mornin', and if we forgot
it...! They never forgot it that night; you'd sure get tried in court.

"We camped on the side of a creek one time, and we had a new man, a sort of green fellow. This
new man unsaddled his horse by the side of the creek and he lay down there. He had on a big
pair of spurs, and I was watchin' him and studyin' up some kind of prank to play on 'im. So
I went and got me a string and tied one of his spurs to his saddle and then I told the boss
what I'd done and he had one of the fellows put a saddle on and tie tin cups and pots on it
and then they commenced shootin' and yellin'. This man with the saddle on went pitchin' right
toward that fellow, and that man got up, scared to death, and started to run. He run the length
of the string and then fell down, but he didn't take time to get up; he went runnin' on his
all-fours as fur as he could, till he drug the saddle to where it hung up. He woulda run right
into the creek, but the saddle held 'im back. We didn't hold kangaroo court over that! Nobody
knowed who did it. Of course, they all knowed, but they didn't let on. But nobody ever got
in a bad humor; it didn't do no good.

"I've stood up of many a bad night, dozin'. It would be two weeks, sometimes, before we got
to lay down on our beds. I have stood up between the wagon wheel and the bed (of the wagon)
and dozed many a night. Maybe one or two men would come in and doze an hour or two, but if
the cattle were restless and ready to run, we had to be ready right now. Sho! Those stormy
nights thunderin' and lightnin'! You could just see the lightnin' all over the steers' horns
and your horse's ears and mane too. It would dangle all up and down his mane. It never interfered
with =you= a-tall. And you could see it around the steer's horns in the herd, the lightnin'
would dangle all over 'em. If the hands (cowboys) or the relief could get to 'em before they
got started to runnin', they could handle 'em; but if they got started first, they would be
pretty hard to handle.

"The first ranch I worked on after I left McNelly was on the =Banqueta= on the =Agua Dulce=
Creek for the Miley boys, putting up a pasture fence. I worked there about two months, diggin'
post holes. From there to the King Ranch for about four months, breaking horses. I kept travelin'
east till I got back to Wharton, where my mother was. She died there in Wharton. I didn't stay
with her very long. I went down to =Tres Palacios= in Matagorda County. I did pasture work
there, and cattle work. I worked for Mr. Moore for twelve years. Then he moved to Stockdale
and I worked for him there eight years. From there, after I got through with Mr. Moore, I went
back to =Tres Palacios= and I worked there for first one man and then another. I think we have
been here at Uvalde for about twenty-three years.

"I've been the luckiest man in the world to have gone through what I have and not get hurt.
I have never had but two horses to fall with me. I could ride all day right now and never tire.
You never hear me say, 'I'm tired, I'm sleepy, I'm hongry.' And out in camp you never see me
lay down when I come in to camp, or set down to eat, and if I =do=, I set down on my foot.
I always get my plate in my hand and eat standin' up, or lean against the wagon, maybe.

"When Cap'n. McNelly taken sick and resigned, I traveled east and picked up jobs of work on
ranches. The first work after I left the Rio Grande was on the =Banqueta=, and then I went
to work on the King Ranch about fifty miles southeast (?) of Brownsville. It wasn't fixed up
in them days like it is now. But the territory is like it was then. They worked all Meskin
hands. They were working about twenty-five or thirty Meskins at the headquarters' ranch. And
the main =caporal= was a Meskin. His wages was top wages and he got twelve dollars a month.
And the hands, if you was a real good hand, you got seven or eight dollars a month, and they
would give you rations. They would furnish you all the meat you wanted and furnish you corn,
but you would have to grind it yourself for bread. You know, like the Meskins make on a =metate=.
You could have all the home-made cheese you want, and milk. In them days, the Meskins didn't
have sense enough to make butter. I seen better times them days than I am seein' now. We just
had a home livin'. You could go out any time and kill you anything you wanted--turkeys, hogs,
javalinas, deer, 'coons, 'possums, quail.

"I'll tell you about a Meskin ranch I worked on. It was a big lake. It covered, I reckin, fifty
acres, and these little Meskin huts just surrounded that big lake. And fish! My goodness, you
could just go down there and throw your hook in without a bait and catch a fish. That was what
you call the =Laguna de Chacona=. That was out from Brownsville about thirty-five miles. That
ranch was owned by the old Meskin named Chacon, where the lake got its name.

"It seems funny the way they handled milk calves--you know, the men-folks didn't milk cows,
they wouldn't even fool with 'em. They would have a great big corral and maybe they would have
fifteen or twenty cows and they would be four or five families go there to milk. Every calf
would have a rawhide strap around his neck about six foot long. Now, instead of them makin'
a calf pen--of evenin's the girls would go down there and I used to go help 'em--they would
pull the calf up to the fence and stick the strap through a crack and pull the calf's head
down nearly to the ground where he couldn't suck. Of course, the old cow would hang around
right close to the calf as she could git. When they let the calf suck, they'd leave 'im tied
down so he couldn't suck in the night. They always kep' the cows up at night and they'd leave
the calves in the pen with 'em, but tied down. But buildin' just what you call a calf pen,
they'd set posts in the ground just like these stock pens at the railroad and lay the poles
between 'em. Then again, they would dig a trench and set mesquite poles so thick and deep,
why, you couldn't push it down!

"Now, in dry times, they would have a =banvolete= (ban-bo-la-te). Hand me two of them sticks,
mama. Now, you see, like here would be the well and you cut a long stick as long as you could
get it, with a fork up here in this here pole, and have this here stick in the fork of the
pole. They'd bolt the cross piece down in the fork of the pole that was put in the ground right
by the well, and have it so it would work up and down. They'd be a weight tied on the end of
the other pole and they could sure draw water in a hurry. I made one out here on the Anderson
Ranch. Just as fast as you could let your bucket down, then jerk it up, you had the water up.
The well had cross pieces of poles laid around it and cut to fit together.

"Now, about the other way we had to draw water. We had a big well, only it was fenced around
to keep cattle from gettin' in there. The reason they had to do that, they had a big wheel
with footpieces, like steps, to tread, and you would have the wheel over the well and they
had about fifteen or twenty rawhide buckets fastened to a rope (that the wheel pulled it went
around), and when they went down, they would go down in front of you. You had to sit down right
behind the wheel, and you would push with your feet and pull with your hands, and the buckets
came up behind you and as they went up, they would empty and go back down. They had some way
of fixin' the rawhide. I think they toasted it, or scorched the hide to keep it hard so the
water wouldn't soak it up and get it soft. That was on that place, the Chacona Lakes. That
old Meskin was a native of the Rio Grande and run cattle and horses. In them days, you could
buy an acre of land for fifty cents, river front, all the land you wanted. Now that land in
that valley, you couldn't buy it for a hundred dollars an acre.

"Did I tell you about diggin' that pit right in the fence of our corn patch to catch javalines?
The way we done, why, we just dug a big pit right on the inside of the field, right against
the fence, and whenever they would go through that hole to go in the corn patch, they would
drop off in that hole. I think we caught nine, little and big, at one trappin' once. It was
already an old trompin' place where they come in and out, and we had put the pit there. But
after you use it, they won't come in there again.

"You see, I tell you about them brush fences. The deer had certain places to go to that fence
to jump it, and after we found the regular jumpin' place, we would cut three sticks--pretty
good size, about like your wrist, about three foot long--and peel 'em and scorch 'em in the
fire and sharpen the ends right good and we would go to set our traps. We would put these three
sharp sticks right about where the forefeet of the deer would hit. You'd just set the sticks
about four inches from where his forefeet would hit the ground, and you'd set the sticks leanin'
towards the brush fence, and they would be one in the center and two on the side and about
two inches apart. When he jumped, you would sure get 'im right about the point of the brisket.
He'd hardly ever miss 'em, and you'd find 'im right there. Oh, sometimes he'd pull up a stick
and run a piece with it, but he didn't run very far.

"I been listenin' to the radio about Cap'n McNelly and I tell you it didn't sound right to
me. In what way? Why, they never was no cattle on the steamboats down the Rio Grande. I just
tell you they was no way of shippin' cattle on a steamboat. They couldn't get 'em down the
hatch and they couldn't keep 'em on deck and they wasn't no wharf to load 'em, either. I was
there and I seen them boats too long and I =know= they never shipped no cattle on them steamboats.
After they crossed the Rio Grand into Mexico, they might have been shipped from some port down
there, but all them cattle they crossed was =swum= across. They was big boats, but they wasn't
no stock boats. They shipped lots of cotton on them steamboats, but they wasn't fixed to ship
no cattle. They was up there for freight and passengers. The passengers was going on down the
Gulf, maybe to New Orleans. They would get on at Brownsville. The steamboats couldn't go very
fur up the river only in high water, but they could come up to Brownsville all the time.

"I was in the Ranger service for about a year with Captain McNelly, or until he died. I was
his guide. I was living thirty-five miles above Brownsville. I was working for a man right
there on the place by the name of John Cunningham. It was called Bare Stone. You see, hit was
a ranch there. McNelly was stationed there after the government troops moved off. They had
'em (the troops) there for a while, but they never did do no good, never did make a raid on
nothin'. I was twenty or twenty-one. How come me to get in with McNelly, they had a big meadow
there, a big 'permuda' (Bermuda) grass meadow. Me and another fellow used to go in there, and
John Cunningham furnished Cap'n McNelly hay for his horses. That's how come me to get in with
'im. Fin'ly, he found out I knew all about that country and sometimes he would come over there
and get me to map off a road, though they wasn't but one main road right there. So, one day
I was over in the camp with 'im and I say, 'Cap'n, how would you like to give me a job to work
with you?' He said, 'I'd like to have you all right, but you couldn't come here on state pay,
and under =no responsibility=.' I told 'im that was all right. I knew how I was going to get
my money, 'cause I gambled. Sometimes I would have a hundred or a hundred, twenty-five dollars.
Durin' the month I would win from the soljers dealin' monte or playin' seven-up. They wasn't
no craps in them days. We played luck too; we never had no shenanigans, a-stealin' a man's
money. If you had a good streak o' luck, you made good; if you didn't, you was out o' luck.
Sometimes, I had up as high as twenty-five or thirty dollars.

"One thing about the cap'n, he'd tell his men--well, we had a sutler's shop right across from
our camp, all kinds of good drinks--and he would tell his men he didn't care how much they
drank but he didn't want any of 'em fighting'. He kep' 'em under good control.

"You see, they was all dependin' on me for guidin'. There was no way for them cow rustlers
or bandits to get to the cow ranches after they crossed the river (Rio Grande) excep' to cross
that road for there was no other way for 'em to get out there. You see, there was where it
would be easy for me, pickin' up a trail. I would just follow that road on if I had a certain
distance to go, and if I didn't find no trail I would come back and report, and if I would
find a trail he would ask me how many they was and where they was goin', and I would tell 'im
which way, 'cause I didn't know exactly where they was goin' to round-up. He would always give
'em about two or three days to make the round-up from the time that trail crossed. And we always
went to meet 'em, or catch 'em at the river. We got into two or three real bad combats.

"The worst one was on Palo Alto Prairie, one of Santa Anna's battle grounds. About twelve or
fifteen miles east of old Brownsville. They was sixteen of the bandits and they was fifteen
of 'em killed--all Meskins excep' one white man. One Meskin escaped. The cap'n just put 'em
all up together in a pile and sent a message to Brownsville to the authorities and told 'em
where they was at and what shape they was in. They must have had two hundred or two hundred
and twenty-five head (of cattle) with 'em. It was open country and they would get anybody's
cattle. They just got 'em off the range.

"They mostly would cross that road at night, and by me gettin' out early next mornin' and findin'
that trail, I could tell pretty much how old it was. I reckon that place wasn't over thirteen
miles from Brownsville and our camp was thirty-five miles, I guess it must have been twenty-five
miles from our camp to where we had that battle. We sure went there to get 'em. I trailed them
horses and I knowed from the direction they was takin' that they was goin' to those big lakes
called Santa Lalla. They was between Point Isabel and Brownsville and that made us about a
forty-five mile ride to get to that crossin', to a place called Bagdad, right on the waters
of the Rio Grande.

"We got our lunch at Brownsville and started out to go to this crossin'. I knowed right about
where this crossin' was and I says to the cap'n, 'Don't you reckon I better go and see if they
was any sign?' We stayed there about three hours and didn't hear a thing. And then the cap'n
said, 'Boys, we better eat our lunch'. While we was eatin', we heard somebody holler, and he
said, 'Boys, there they are.' And he said to me, 'Ben, you want to stay with the horses or
be in the fun?' And I said, 'I don't care.' So he said, 'You better stay with the horses; you
ain't paid to kill Meskins! I went out to where the horses were. The rangers were afoot in
the brush. It was about an hour from the time we heard the fellow holler before the cattle
got there. When the rangers placed themselves on the side of the road, the Meskins didn't know
what they was goin' to get into!

"The Meskins was all singin' at the top of their voices and they was comin' on in. The cap'n
waited till they went to crossin' the herd, he waited till these rustlers all got into the
river behind the cattle, and then the cap'n opened fire on the bandits. They didn't have no
possible show. They was in the water, and he just floated 'em down the river. They was one
man got away. I saw 'im later, and he told me about it. The way he got away, he says he was
a good swimmer and he just fell off his horse in the water and the swift water took 'im down
and he just kep' his nose out of the water and got away that way. They was fo'teen in that
bunch, I know.

"The echo of the shootin' turned the cattle back to the American side. The lead cattle was
just gettin' ready to hit the other side of the river when the shootin' taken place and the
echo of the shootin' turned 'em and they come back across. Now, in swimmin' a bunch of cattle,
if you pop your whip, you are just as liable to turn 'em back, or if you holler the echo might
turn 'em back. It'll do that nearly every time.

"After the fight, the cap'n says to the boys, 'Well, boys, the fun is all over now, I guess
we'd better start back to camp.' And they all mounted their horses and begun singin':

  "O, bury me not on the lone prairie-e-e
    Where the wild coyotes will howl o'er me-e-e,
  Right where all the Meskins ought to be-e-e!"

420949

     MARY KINDRED was a slave on the Luke Hadnot plantation in Jasper,
     Texas. She does not know her age but thinks she is about 80. She
     now lives in Beaumont, Texas.

"My mind don't dwell back. The older I gits the lessen I thinks 'bout the old times. I ain't
gittin' old. I's done got old. I not been one of them bad, outlawed fellers, so de good Lawd
done 'low me live a long time. Some things I knows I heered from my mother and my grandma.
They so fresh to them in that time, though, I mostly sure they's truth.

"My mother name was Hannah Hadnot and my daddy was Ruffin Hadnot and he used to carry the mail
from Weiss Bluff to Jasper. They waylay him 'long the road in 1881 and kill him and rob the mail.

"Luke Hadnot was our old massa. He good to my grandma and give her license for a doctor woman.
Old massa must of thought lots of her, 'cause he give her forty acres of land and a home fer
herself. That house still standin' up there in Jasper, yet.

"Grandma used to sing a li'l song to us, like this:

  "'One mornin' in May,
  I spies a beautiful dandy,
  A-rakin' way of de hay.
  I asks her to marry.
  She say, scornful, 'No.'
  But befo' six months roll by
  Her apron strings wouldn't tie
  She wrote me a letter,
  She marry me then,
  I say, no, no, my gal, not I.'

"Grandma git de bark offen de thorn tree and bile it with turpentine for de toothache. She
used herbs for de medicine and they's good.

"Old missy was tall and slim, a rawbone sort of woman. Her name was Matilda Hadnot. Massa have
as big a still as ever I seed and dey used to make everything there. They has it civered with
boards they rive out the woods. There wasn't no revenuers in dem days.

"Us gits de groceries by steamboat and the wagons go down the old Bevilport Road to the steamboat
landin'. That the Ang'leen River. One the biggest boats was own by Capt. Bryce Hadnot, the
'Old Grim.'

"I 'member back durin' the war the people couldn't git no coffee. They used to take bran and
peanuts and okra seed and sich and parch 'em for coffee. It make right drinkable coffee. They
gits sugar from the store or the sugar cane. When they buy it, it's in a big, white lump what
they calls 'sugar loaf.' When they has no sugar they uses the syrup to sweeten the coffee and
they call syrup 'long sweetenin' and sugar, 'short sweetenin'.

"Us has lots of dances with fiddle and 'corjum player. Us sing, 'Swing you partner, Promenade.'
Another li'l song start out:

  "'Dinah got a meat skin lay away,
  Grease dat wooden leg, Dinah.
  Grease dat wooden leg, Dinah.
  Down in Shiloh town,
    O, boys, O,
    O, boys, O,
  Down in Shiloh town.'

"I's seed lots of blue gum niggers and they say iffen they bite you dey pizen you. They hands
diff'rent from other niggers. Now, my hand's right smart white in the inside, but blue gum
nigger hand is more browner on the inside.

"I used to have a old aunt name Harriett and iffen she tell you anythin' you kin jes' put it
down it gwineter come out like she say. She have the big mole on the inside her mouth and when
she shake her finger at you it gwine happen to you jes' like she say. That what they call puttin'
bad mouth on them and she sho' could do it.

"I's had 12 chillen. My first husban was Anthony Adams and the last Alfred Kindred. I only
got three chillen livin' now, though. One of the sons am the outer door guard of the lodge
here in Beaumont.

420311

     NANCY KING, 93, was born in Upshur County, Texas, a slave of
     William Jackson. She and her husband moved to Marshall, Texas, in
     1866. Nancy now lives with her daughter, Lucy Staples.

"I was borned and raised on William Jackson's place, jus' twelve miles east of Gilmer. I was
growed and had one child at surrender, and my mother told me I was a woman of my own when Old
Missie sot us free, jus' after surrender, so you can figurate my age from that.

"My first child was borned the January befo' surrender in June, and I 'members hoeing in the
field befo' the war come on. Massa William raised lots of cotton and corn and tobacco and most
everything we et. I never worked in the field, 'cept to chase the calves in, till I was most
growed. Massa was good to us. Course, I never went to school, but Old Missie sent my brother,
Alex, two years after the war, with her own chillen.

"I was married durin' the war and it was at church, with a white preacher. Old Missie give
me the cloth and dye for my weddin' dress and my mother spun and dyed the cloth, and I made
it. It was homespun but nothin' cheap 'bout it for them days. After the weddin' massa give
us a big dinner and we had a time.

"Massa done all the bossin' his own self. He never whipped me, but Old Missie had to switch
me a little for piddlin' round, 'stead of doin' what she said. Every Sat'day night we had a
candy pullin' and played games, and allus had plenty of clothes and shoes.

"I seed the soldiers comin' and gwine to the war, and 'members when Massa William left to go
fight for the South. His boy, Billie, was sixteen, and tended the place while massa's away.
Massa done say he'd let the niggers go without fightin'. He didn't think war was right, but
he had to go. He 'serts and comes home befo' the war gits goin' good and the soldiers come
after him. He run off to the bottoms, but they was on hosses and overtook him. I was there
in the room when they brung him back. One of them says, 'Jackson, we ain't gwine take you with
us now, but we'll fix you so you can't run off till we git back.' They put red pepper in his
eyes and left. Missie cried. They come back for him in a day or two and made my father saddle
up Hawk-eye, massa's best hoss. Then they rode away and we never seed massa 'gain. One day
my brother, Alex, hollers out, 'Oh, Missie, yonder is the hoss, at the gate, and ain't nobody
ridin' him.' Missie throwed up her hands and says, 'O, Lawdy, my husban' am dead!' She knowed
somehow when he left he wasn't comin' back.

"Old Missie freed us but said we had a home as long as she did. Me and my husban' stays 'bout
a year, but my folks stays till she marries 'gain.

"My brother-in-law, Sam Pitman, tells us how he put one by the Ku Kluxers. Him and some niggers
was out one night and the Kluxers chases them on hosses. They run down a narrow road and tied
four strands of grapevine 'cross the road, 'bout breast high to a hoss. The Kluxers come gallopin'
down that road and when the hosses hit that grapevine, it throwed them every which way and
broke some their arms. Sam used to laugh and tell how them Kluxers cussed them niggers.

"Me and my husban' come to Marshall the year after surrender, and I is lived here every since.
My man works on farms till he got on the railroad. I's been married four times and raised six
chillen. The young people is diff'rent from what we was, but diff'rent times calls for diff'rent
ways, I 'spect. My chillen allus done the best they could by me.

420272

     SILVIA KING, French Negress of Marlin, Texas, does not know her
     age, but says that she was born in Morocco. She was stolen from her
     husband and three children, brought to the United States and sold
     into slavery. Silvia has the appearance of extreme age, and may be
     close to a hundred years old, as she thinks she is, because of her
     memories of the children she never saw again and of the slave ship.

"I know I was borned in Morocco, in Africa, and was married and had three chillen befo' I was
stoled from my husband. I don't know who it was stole me, but dey took me to France, to a place
called Bordeaux, and drugs me with some coffee, and when I knows anything 'bout it, I's in
de bottom of a boat with a whole lot of other niggers. It seem like we was in dat boat forever,
but we comes to land, and I's put on de block and sold. I finds out afterwards from my white
folks it was in New Orleans where dat block was, but I didn't know it den.

"We was all chained and dey strips all our clothes off and de folks what gwine buy us comes
round and feels us all over. Iffen any de niggers don't want to take dere clothes off, de man
gits a long, black whip and cuts dem up hard. I's sold to a planter what had a big plantation
in Fayette County, right here in Texas, don't know no name 'cept Marse Jones.

"Marse Jones, he am awful good, but de overseer was de meanest man I ever knowed, a white man
name Smith, what boasts 'bout how many niggers he done kilt. When Marse Jones seed me on de
block, he say, 'Dat's a whale of a woman.' I's scairt and can't say nothin', 'cause I can't
speak English. He buys some more slaves and dey chains us together and marches us up near La
Grange, in Texas. Marse Jones done gone on ahead and de overseer marches us. Dat was a awful
time, 'cause us am all chained up and whatever one does us all has to do. If one drinks out
of de stream we all drinks, and when one gits tired or sick, de rest has to drag and carry
him. When us git to Texas, Marse Jones raise de debbil with dat white man what had us on da
march. He git de doctor man and tell de cook to feed us and lets us rest up.

"After 'while, Marse Jones say to me, 'Silvia, am you married?' I tells him I got a man and
three chillen back in de old country, but he don't understand my talk and I has a man give
to me. I don't bother with dat nigger's name much, he jes' Bob to me. But I fit him good and
plenty till de overseer shakes a blacksnake whip over me.

"Marse Jones and Old Miss finds out 'bout my cookin' and takes me to de big house to cook for
dem. De dishes and things was awful queer to me, to what I been brung up to use in France.
I mostly cooks after dat, but I's de powerful big woman when I's young and when dey gits in
a tight [Handwritten Note: 'place?'] I helps out.

"'Fore long Marse Jones 'cides to move. He allus say he gwine git where he can't hear he neighbor's
cowhorn, and he do. Dere ain't nothin' but woods and grass land, no houses, no roads, no bridges,
no neighbors, nothin' but woods and wild animals. But he builds a mighty fine house with a
stone chimney six foot square at de bottom. The sill was a foot square and de house am made
of logs, but dey splits out two inch plank and puts it outside de logs, from de ground clean
up to de eaves. Dere wasn't no nails, but dey whittles out pegs. Dere was a well out de back
and a well on de back porch by de kitchen door. It had a wheel and a rope. Dere was 'nother
well by de barns and one or two round de quarters, but dey am fixed with a long pole sweep.
In de kitchen was de big fireplace and de big back logs am haul to de house. De oxen pull dem
dat far and some men takes poles and rolls dem in de fireplace. Marse Jones never 'low dat
fire go out from October till May, and in de fall Marse or one he sons lights de fire with
a flint rock and some powder.

"De stores was a long way off and de white folks loans seed and things to each other. If we
has de toothache, de blacksmith pulls it. My husband manages de ox teams. I cooks and works
in Old Miss's garden and de orchard. It am big and fine and in fruit time all de women works
from light to dark dryin' and 'servin' and de like.

"Old Marse gwine feed you and see you quarters am dry and warm or know de reason why. Most
ev'ry night he goes round de quarters to see if dere any sickness or trouble. Everybody work
hard but have plenty to eat. Sometimes de preacher tell us how to git to hebben and see de
ring lights dere.

"De smokehouse am full of bacon sides and cure hams and barrels lard and 'lasses. When a nigger
want to eat, he jes' ask and git he passel. Old Miss allus 'pend on me to spice de ham when
it cure. I larnt dat back in de old country, in France.

"Dere was spinnin' and weavin' cabins, long with a chimney in each end. Us women spins all
de thread and weaves cloth for everybody, de white folks, too. I's de cook, but times I hit
de spinnin' loom and wheel fairly good. Us bleach de cloth and dyes it with barks.

"Dere allus de big woodpile in de yard, and de big, caboose kettle for renderin' hawg fat and
beef tallow candles and makin' soap. Marse allus have de niggers take some apples and make
cider, and he make beer, too. Most all us had cider and beer when we want it, but nobody git
drunk. Marse sho' cut up if we do.

"Old Miss have de floors sanded, dat where you sprinkles fine, white sand over da floor and
sweeps it round in all kinds purty figgers. Us make a corn shuck broom.

"Marse sho' a fool 'bout he hounds and have a mighty fine pack. De boys hunts wolves and painters
(panthers) and wild game like dat. Dere was lots of wild turkey and droves of wild prairie
chickens. Dere was rabbits and squirrels and Indian puddin', make of cornmeal. It am real tasty.
I cooks goose and pork and mutton and bear meat and beef and deer meat, den makes de fritters
and pies and dumplin's. Sho' wish us had dat food now.

"On de cold winter night I's sot many a time spinnin' with two threads, one in each hand and
one my feets on de wheel and de baby sleepin' on my lap. De boys and old men was allus whittlin'
and it wasn't jes' foolishment. Dey whittles traps and wooden spoons and needles to make seine
nets and checkers and sleds. We all sits workin' and singin' and smokin' pipes. I likes my
pipe right now, and has two clay pipes and keeps dem under de pillow. I don't aim for dem pipes
to git out my sight. I been smokin' clost to a hunerd years now and it takes two cans tobaccy
de week to keep me goin'.

"Dere wasn't many doctors dem days, but allus de closet full of simples (home remedies) and
most all de old women could git med'cine out de woods. Ev'ry spring, Old Miss line up all de
chillen and give dem a dose of garlic and rum.

"De chillen all played together, black and white. De young ones purty handy trappin' quail
and partridges and sech. Dey didn't shoot if dey could cotch it some other way, 'cause powder
and lead am scarce. Dey cotch de deer by makin' de salt lick, and uses a spring pole to cotch
pigeons and birds.

"De black folks gits off down in de bottom and shouts and sings and prays. Dey gits in de ring
dance. It am jes' a kind of shuffle, den it git faster and faster and dey gits warmed up and
moans and shouts and claps and dances. Some gits 'xhausted and drops out and de ring gits closer.
Sometimes dey sings and shouts all night, but come break of day, de nigger got to git to he
cabin. Old Marse got to tell dem de tasks of de day.

"Old black Tom have a li'l bottle and have spell roots and water in it and sulphur. He sho'
could find out if a nigger gwine git whipped. He have a string tie round it and say, 'By sum
Peter, by sum Paul, by de Gawd dat make us all, Jack don't you tell me no lie, if marse gwine
whip Mary, tell me.' Sho's you born, if dat jack turn to de laft, de nigger git de whippin',
but if marse ain't makeup he mind to whip, dat jack stand and quiver.

"You white folks jes' go through de woods and don't know nothin'. Iffen you digs out splinters
from de north side a old pine tree what been struck by lightnin', and gits dem hot in a iron
skillet and burns dem to ashes, den you puts dem in a brown paper sack. Iffen de officers gits
you and you gwine have it 'fore de jedge, you gits de sack and goes outdoors at midnight and
hold de bag of ashes in you hand and look up at de moon--but don't you open you mouth. Nex'
mornin' git up early and go to de courthouse and sprinkle dem ashes in de doorway and dat law
trouble, it gwine git tore up jes' like de lightnin' done tore up dat tree.

"De shoestring root am powerful strong. Iffen you chews on it and spits a ring round de person
what you wants somethin' from, you gwine git it. You can git more money or a job or most anythin'
dat way. I had a black cat bone, too, but it got away from me.

"I's got a big frame and used to weigh a hunerd pounds, but day tells me I only weighs a hunerd
now. Dis Louis Southern I lives with, he's de youngest son of my grandson, who was de son of
my youngest daughter. My marse, he knowed Gen. Houston and I seed him many a time. I lost what
teeth I had a long time ago and in 1920 two more new teeth come through. Dem teeth sho' did
worry me and I's glad when dey went, too.