THE BAY STATE MONTHLY

A MASSACHUSETTS MAGAZINE.

VOL. I.

APRIL, 1884.

NO. IV.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN GEORGE HAMILTON PERKINS, U.S.N.

By CAPTAIN GEORGE E. BELKNAP, U.S.N.

In passing up the Concord and Claremont Railroad from Concord, the observant traveler has doubtless
noticed the substantial and comfortable-looking homestead with large and trim front yard, shaded
by thickly planted and generous topped maples, on the right-hand side of the road after crossing
the bridge that spans

  "Contoocook's bright and brimming river,"

at the pleasant-looking village of Contoocookville in the northern part of Hopkinton.

There, under that inviting roof, the subject of this sketch, GEORGE HAMILTON PERKINS, the eldest
son in a family of eight children, was born, October 20, 1836.

His father, the Honorable Hamilton Eliot Perkins, inherited all the land in that part of the
town, and, in early life, in addition to professional work as a counsellor-at-law and member
of the Merrimack County bar, built the mills at Contoocookville, and was, in fact, the founder
of the thriving settlement at that point.

His paternal grandfather, Roger Eliot Perkins, came to Hopkinton from the vicinity of Salem,
Massachusetts, when a young man, and by his energy, enterprise, and public spirit, soon impressed
his individuality upon the community, and became one of the leading citizens of the town.

His mother was Miss Clara Bartlett George, daughter of the late John George, Esquire, of Concord,
whose ancestors were among the early settlers of Watertown, Massachusetts. He is said to have
been a man of active temperament, prompt in business, stout in heart, bluff of speech, honest
in purpose, and never failing in any way those who had dealings with him.

As "the child is father of the man," so the boyhood and youth of Captain Perkins gave earnest
of those qualities which in his young manhood the rude tests of the sea and the grim crises
of war developed to the full. "No matter" was his first plainly spoken phrase, a hint of childish
obstinacy that foreshadowed the persistence of maturer years. Among other feats of his boyish
daring, it is told that when a mere child, hardly into his first trousers, he went one day
to catch a colt in one of his father's fields bordering on the Contoocook. The colt declined
to be caught and after a sharp scamper took to the river and swam across. Nothing daunted,
the plucky little urchin threw off his jacket, plunged into the swift current, and safely breasting
it, was soon in hot pursuit on the other side; and after a long chase and hard tussle made
out to catch the spirited animal and bring him home in triumph. Always passionately fond of
animals and prematurely expert in all out-door sports, he thus early began to master that noblest
of beasts, the horse.

When eight years old, his father removed with his family to Boston, and, investing his means
in shipping, engaged for a time in trade with the west coast of Africa. The son was apt to
run about the wharves with his father, and the sight of the ships and contact with "Jack" doubtless
awoke the taste for the sea, that was to be gratified later on.

Returning to the old homestead on the Contoocook after the lapse of two years or more, the
old, quiet, yet for young boyhood, frolicsome out-door life was resumed, and the lad grew apace
amid the rural scenes and ample belongings of that generous home; not over studious, perhaps,
and chafing, as boys will, at the restraint imposed by the study of daily lessons and their
recital to his mother.

At twelve years of age, he was sent to the Hopkinton Academy, and afterwards to the academy
at Gilmanton. While at Gilmanton, General Charles H. Peaslee, then member of Congress from
the Concord congressional district, offered him the appointment of acting midshipman to fill
a vacancy at the Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland, which, after some hesitation, his parents
permitted him to accept, and he was withdrawn from Gilmanton and sent to Concord to prepare
for entrance at Annapolis, under a private tutor. He remained under such pupilage until the
age of fifteen, when the beginning of the academic year, October, 1851, saw him installed in
"Middy's" uniform at that institution, and the business of life for him had begun in earnest.

To a young and restless lad, used to being afield at all times and hours with horse, dog, and
gun, and fresh from a country home where the "pomp and circumstance" of military life had had
no other illustration than occasional glimpses of the old "training and muster days" so dear
to New Hampshire boys forty years ago, the change to the restraint and discipline; the inflexible
routine and stern command; the bright uniforms and novel ways; the sight of the ships and the
use of a vocabulary that ever smacks of the sea; the call by drum and trumpet to every act
of the day, from bed-rising, prayers, and breakfast, through study, recitation, drill, and
recreation hours, to tattoo and taps, when every student is expected to be in bed,--was a transformation
wonderful indeed; but the flow of discipline and routine are so regular and imperative that
their currents are imperceptibly impressed upon the youthful mind and soon become a part of
his nature, as it were, unawares. So we may conclude that our young aspirant for naval honors
proved no exception to the rule, and soon settled into these new grooves of life as quietly
as his ardent temperament would permit.

The discipline at the Academy, in those days, was harsher and more exacting, and the officers
of the institution of a sterner and more experienced sea-school, than now; and the three months'
practice cruises across the Atlantic, which the different classes made on alternate summers,
when the "young gentlemen" were trained to do all the work of seamen, both alow and aloft,
and lived on the old navy ration of salt junk, pork and beans, and hardtack, with no extras,
were anything but a joke. The Academy, too, was in a transition state from the system in vogue,
up to 1850 inclusive, prior to which period the midshipmen went to sea immediately after appointment,
pretty much after the fashion of Peter Simple and Jack Easy, and after a lapse of five years
came to the school for a year's cramming and coaching before graduating as passed midshipmen.
The last of such appointees was graduated in 1856, and the sometime hinted contaminating influence
of the "oldsters" upon the "youngsters" was a thing to be known no more forever, albeit the
hint of contamination always seemed, to the writer, questionable, as, in his experience, the
habit and propensity of the youngsters for mischief appeared to require neither promotion nor
encouragement. Indeed, their methods and ingenuity in evading rules and regulations and defying
discipline were as original as they were persevering, and could the third-story room of the
building occupied by the subject of this sketch be given tongue, it would tell a tale of frolic
and drollery that would only find parallel in the inimitable pages of Marryatt. Convenient
apparatus for the stewing or roasting of oysters, poaching of eggs, or the mixing of refreshing
drinks, could be readily stowed away from the inspecting officer, or a roast goose or turkey
be smuggled by a trusty darkey from some restaurant outside; and it was but the work of a moment
after taps to tack a blanket over the window, light the gas, and bring out a dilapidated pack
of cards for a game of California Jack or draw-poker; or to convert the prim pine table into
a billiard-table, with marbles for balls, with which the ownership of many a collar, neckerchief,
shirt, and other articles of none too plentiful wardrobes, were decided in a twinkling, while
the air of the crowded room grew thick and stifling from the smoke of the forbidden tobacco.
One of the company would keep a sharp lookout for the possible advent of the sometimes rubber-shod
passed midshipman doing police duty, and, if necessary, danger signals would be made from the
basement story, by tapping on the steam-pipes, which signal would be repeated from room to
room, and from floor to floor, generally in ample time for the young bacchanalians to disperse
in safety. If, perchance, the revelers got caught, they would stand up at the next evening's
parade and hear the offence and demerits accorded, read out in presence of the battalion, with
an easy sang-froid that piqued the sea-worn experience of the oldsters while they marveled.
Let no one judge these lads too harshly, for the day came, all too soon, when they were to
stand up in face of the enemy, and, with equally nonchalant but sterner courage, go into battle
in defence of the flag they were being trained to defend, many winning undying honor and fame,
some meeting untimely but heroic graves, in "the war that kept the Union whole."

Our midshipmite soon became a favorite with all, from the gruff old superintendent down to
the littlest new-comer at the school. His bright, cheery, and genial disposition, and frank,
hearty ways, were very winning, and if, in his studies, he did not take leading rank, nor become
enraptured over analytics, calculus, and binomials, he was esteemed a spirited, heartsome lad
of good stock and promise, bred to honorable purpose and aspiration, with seemingly marked
aptitude for the noble profession, which, more than any other, calls for a heroism that never
hesitates, a courage that never falters; for, aside from its special work of upholding and
defending the flag, and all it symbolizes, on the high seas to the uttermost parts of the globe,
"they that go down to sea in ships" come closer to the manifestations of the unspeakable might
and majesty of Almighty Power than any other. The seaman, with but a plank separating him from
eternity, never knows at what moment he may be called upon to put forth all the skill and resource,
the unflinching effort and sacrifice, that his calling ever, in emergency, unstintedly requires.

  "Where'er the surge may sweep, the tempest's breath prevail,
  He searches all its stormy deep, its dangers all unveil."

Of medium height, slight and trim of figure, clear complexion and piercing gray eyes of peculiar
brilliancy, softened by a merry twinkle betokening latent mischief, young Perkins was a youth
fair and interesting to look upon. He walked with quick, elastic step, carried his head a little
on one side, and had a habit, when anything struck his fancy pleasantly, of shrugging his shoulders
and rubbing his hands together in a vigorous way, that seemed to declare in unmistakable terms
that he was glad all over!

During one of the wonted summer cruises, he made himself somewhat famous at great-gun practice,
the details of which are given in one of his home letters, as follows:--

"We had target practice one day, and it came my turn to shoot. There was quite a swell on,
which made it very difficult to get any kind of a shot, but when I fired I hit the target,
which was a barrel with a small flag on it, set up about three quarters of a mile distant.
Such a thing as hitting a small target at sea, with the ship in motion, and a swell on, is
considered almost out of the question, so they all said it was 'luck.' But another target was
put out, and I fired again and stove it all to pieces. Then the crew all cheered, and made
quite a hero of me. Still some said it must be luck, and another target was put out in exactly
the same manner. This one I did not quite hit, but the shot fell so near, that all gave it
up it was not luck, and that I was a first-rate shot with broadside guns."

After such demonstration, it is not strange that he was looked upon as having a very correct
eye for distances, and was ever afterward called upon to fire whenever experiments were wanted.
Naval gunnery, be it remarked in passing, is quite a different matter from army practice: in
the former, with its platform never at rest, it is like shooting a bird on the wing, when distance
and motion must be accurately gauged and allowed for; in the latter, from its gun on a fixed
platform, it is but a question of measurement from the object, by means of instruments if need
be, and of good pointing. The seaman stands immediately in rear of the gun, with eye along
the sight directing its train, now right, now left, now well, and with taut lock-string in
hand in readiness to pull the moment the object is on, and on the alert to jump clear of the
recoil. The soldier handles his piece with greater deliberation, sights it leisurely on its
immovable platform, and, if mounted en barbette, retires behind a traverse before firing.

Graduating in June, 1856, the now full-fledged Midshipman Perkins could look back upon his
five years' probationary experience with many pleasant recollections, though doubtless thanking
his stars that his pupilage was over.

During his time there had been two superintendents at the academy. The first was Captain C.K.
Stribling, a fine seaman of the old school, of rigid Presbyterian stock, stern, grim, and precise,
with curt manners, sharp and incisive voice that seemed to know no softening, and whose methods
of duty and conception of discipline smacked of the "true blue" ideal of the Covenanters of
old in their enforcement of obedience and conservation of morals. The second was Captain L.M.
Goldsborough, a man of stalwart height and proportions and a presence that ennobled command;
learned and accomplished, yet gruff and overwhelming in speech and brusque and impatient in
manner, but possessing, withal, a kindly nature, and a keen sense of humor that took in a joke
enjoyably, however practical; and a sympathetic discrimination that often led him to condone
moral offences at which some of the straight-laced professors stood aghast. His responses at
church-service resounded like the growl of a bear, and when reprimanding the assembled midshipmen,
drawn up in battalion, for some grave breach of discipline, he would stride up and down the
line with the tread of an elephant, and expound the Articles of War in stentorian tones that
equaled the roar of a bull! But if, perchance, in the awesome precincts of his office, he afterwards
got hold of a piece of doggerel some witty midshipman had written descriptive of such a scene,
none would enjoy it more than he!

After an enjoyment of a three months' leave of absence at home. Midshipman Perkins was ordered
to join the sloop-of-war Cyane, Captain Robb. That ship was one of the home squadron, and in
November, 1856, sailed for Aspinwall, to give protection to our citizens, mails, and freight,
in the transit across the Isthmus of Panama to California, back and forth. At that period safe
and rapid transit in that region of riots and revolution was much more important than now,--the
Pacific Railroad existing only in the brains of a few sagacious men,--and the maintenance of
the thoroughfare across the pestilential isthmus was a national necessity. For years our naval
force on either side had had frequent occasion to land expeditions to protect the life and
property of our citizens, and a frightful massacre of passengers had but lately occurred at
the hands of a mongrel mob at Panama. The situation was critical, and for a time it looked
as though the United States would be obliged to seize and hold that part of Colombian territory.
But time wore on without outbreak on the part of the fiery freemen of that so-called republic,
the continued presence of ships, both at Panama and Aspinwall, doubtless convincing them of
the folly of further attempts to molest the hated Yankees.

Meanwhile the notorious Walker had been making a filibustering raid in Central America, which
ended in failure, and the Cyane went over to Greytown to bring the sick and wounded of his
deluded followers to Aspinwall for passage to New York. Some hundred and twenty officers and
men found in the hands of the Costa Ricans were taken on board, most of them in a deplorable
condition. Some died before weighing anchor for Aspinwall, and as midshipmen have no definable
duties except to obey orders, whatever they may be, Midshipman Perkins was sent in a boat one
day to take a chaplain's part in the burial of one of the victims. "When we got out to sea,"
he wrote, "I read some prayers over him, and then he was thrown over the side, the sailors
saying 'God bless you!' as the body sunk." This sad duty made him feel solemn and reflective,
but more than likely as not he was called upon immediately on arrival on board, as "master's
mate of the spirit-room," to attend the serving out of grog to the ship's company! Extremes
meet on board a man-of-war, and the times for moralizing are short and scant.

So time sped, Midshipman Perkins performing his multifarious duties with alacrity and approval,
and having some perilous adventures by flood and field in pursuit of wild game, until July,
1857, when the monotony of the cruise was broken by a trip to the banks of Newfoundland for
the protection of our fishing interests, and including visits at Boston, St. John's, and Halifax.

The people of the Provinces were very hospitable, and the contrast between the dusky damsels
of the isthmus and the ruddy-cheeked belles of St. John's and Halifax was brightening in the
extreme; and young Perkins, ever gallant in his intercourse with the sex, and a good dancer,
found much favor with the Provincial beauties, and doubtless made up for past deprivations,
in the alluring contact with their charms.

Returning southward in the fall, the ship cruised among the West Indies, visiting, among other
ports, Cape Haytien, the old capital of the island of Hayti, to inquire into the imprisonment
of an American merchant captain. This place, before the French Revolution, had been a city
of great magnificence and beauty--the Paris of the Isles; and the old French nobility, possessing
enormous landed estates and large numbers of slaves, lived in a state of almost fabled grandeur
and luxury; but negro rule, the removal of the seat of government to Port-au-Prince, and the
great earthquake of 1842, have destroyed all but a semblance of its former glory and importance.

Among other sights visited by the officers was the old home of Count Cristoff, a castle of
great size and strength, built on one of the highest hills, some twelve miles back of the town.
It was told of the old Count that he used every year to bury large sums of money from his revenues,
and then shoot the slave who did the work, that the secret of the spot might be known only
to himself.

In January, 1858, Midshipman Perkins was detached from the Cyane, and he bade adieu forever
to her dark, cramped-up, tallow-candle lighted steerage, baggy hammock, and hard fare, where
the occasional dessert to a salt dinner had been dried apples, mixed with bread and flavored
with whiskey! There were no eleven-o'clock breakfasts for midshipmen in those days, and canned
meats, condensed milk, preserved fruits, and other luxuries now common on shipboard, were almost
unknown.

A few brief days at home and orders came to join the storeship Release, which vessel after
a three months' cruise in the Mediterranean returned to New York to fill up with stores and
provisions for the Paraguay expedition. That expedition had for its object the chastisement
of the Dictator Lopez for certain dastardly acts committed against our flag on the River Parana.

Owing to the paucity of officers, so many being absent on other foreign service, Midshipman
Perkins was appointed acting sailing-master, a very responsible position for so young an officer,
which, with the added comforts of a stateroom and well-ordered table in the wardroom, was almost
royal in its contrast with the duty, the darksome steerage, and hard fare on board the Cyane.
It would be difficult to make a landsman take in the scope of the change implied, but let him
in imagination start across the continent in an old-fashioned, cramped-up stage-coach, full
of passengers, with such coarse fare as could be picked up from day to day, and return in a
Pullman car with well-stocked larder and restaurant attached, and he will get a glimmering
as to the difference between steerage and wardroom life on board a man-of-war.

The Release was somewhat of a tub, and what with light and contrary winds and calms took sixty-two
days to reach the rendezvous, Montevideo, arriving there in January, 1858. She found the whole
fleet at anchor there, and officers and men soon forgot the weariness of the long passage in
the receipt of letters from home, and in the joyous meetings with old friends. All admired
the fine climate, and, as that part of South America is the greatest country in the world for
horses, the young sailing-master rejoiced in the opportunity offered to indulge in his favorite
pastime of riding. He also showed his prowess as a devotee of the chase in the fine sport afforded
on the pampas that enabled him to run down and shoot a South American tiger.

Meanwhile Commodore Shubrick, in command of the expedition, had completed his preparations
for ascending the Parana, and the fleet soon moved up to a convenient point, the Commodore
himself continuing on up the river in a small vessel to Corrientes to meet Lopez and convey
to him the ultimatum of the United States. After some "backing and filling," as an old salt
would characterize diplomacy, Lopez concluded "discretion to be the better part of valor,"
and making a satisfactory amende, the Paraguayan war came to a bloodless end, and the hopes
of expectant heroes with visions of promotion dissolved like summer clouds.

Young Perkins was now, August, 1858, transferred to the frigate Sabine for passage home to
his examination for the grade of passed midshipman. Passing that ordeal satisfactorily, aided
by handsome commendatory letters from his commanding officers, he spent three happy months
at home, and then received orders for duty on board the steamer Sumter, as acting master, the
destination of that vessel being the west coast of Africa, where, in accordance with the provisions
of Article 8 of the Webster-Ashburton treaty (1842), the United States maintained a squadron,
carrying not less than eighty guns, in co-operation with the British government, for the suppression
of the slave trade. That article continued in active observance nineteen years, when the United
States, having a little question of slavery to settle at home, gave the stipulated preliminary
notice and recalled the ships.

The Sumter arrived on the coast in October, 1859, making her first anchorage in the lovely
harbor on the west side of Prince's Island. That island, in about 1° 30' north latitude, covered
with all the luxuriance of tropical growth and verdure, and broken into every conceivable shape
of pinnacle, castellated rock and chasm, and frowning precipice, streaked with silvery threads
of leaping streams in their dash to the sea, is indeed one of the most enchanting spots the
eye ever rested on. The chief inhabitant of the lovely isle was Madame Ferrara, a woman of
French extraction, who lived alone in a big, rambling house, surrounded by slaves, who cultivated
her plantations and prepared the cocoa, palm oil, yams, and cocoanuts, for the trade that sought
her doors.

Filling up with water, the Sumter proceeded to the island of Fernando Po, a Spanish possession
close in to the mainland, in the Bight of Biafra, where she met several English and French
men-of-war, and received orders for her future movements.

The first thing to do, in accordance with the custom of the squadron, was the enlisting of
fifteen or twenty negroes, known as Kroomen, whose home is in the Kroo country in upper Guinea,
just south of Liberia. They did all the heavy boat-work of the ship, thus lightening the work
of the crew, and saving them as much as possible from exposure to the effects of the deadly
climate. Great, strapping, muscular fellows, many of them, with forms that an Apollo might
envy, they were trained from infancy to be as much at home in the water as upon the land, and
could swim a dozen leagues at sea or pull at the oar all day long without seeming fatigue.
Wonderfully expert in their handling of boats, especially in the heavy surf that rolls in upon
the coast with ceaseless volume and resistless power, its perilous line almost unbroken by
a good harbor, from the Cape of Good Hope to the Straits of Gibraltar, their services in communicating
with the shore were simply invaluable. The head Kroomen exercised despotic power over their
respective gangs, and the men were given fanciful names, and so entered on the purser's books.
Bottle-o'-Beer, Jack Frying-Pan, Tom Bobstay, Upside Down, and the like, were favorite names;
and our fun-loving young sailing-master hints, in his letters of the time, that the archives
of the fourth auditor's office at Washington may possibly embalm the names of certain Annapolis
belles that had been borne by some of these sable folk!

The cruising ground embraced the coasts of Upper and Lower Guinea, and the coast of Biafra,
with occasional visits of recruit and recreation to Cape Town and St. Helena. The work was
arduous, monotonous, and exhausting, especially during the rainy season, when the decks were
continually deluged with water, and dry clothing was the exception, not the rule. The weather
was always hot, often damp and sultry, and the atmosphere on shore so pestilential, that no
one was permitted to remain there after sundown. But that rule was no deprivation, as the dangers
of the passage through the relentless breakers, alive with sharks, were so great, that few
cared to visit the shore except when absolutely necessary. The vessels cruised mostly in sight
of the coast to watch the movements of the merchantmen, all more or less under suspicion as
slavers, watching their chances to get off with a cargo. On one hand was the rounded horizon
dipping into the broad Atlantic; on the other, the angry line of rollers with their thunderous
roar, backed by white beach and dense forest, with occasional glimpses of blue hills in the
distant interior. This and nothing more, from day to day, save when a small village of thatched
huts came into view, adding a scant feature to the landscape; or a solitary canoe outside the
line of breakers; or strange sail to seaward; or school of porpoises, leaping and blowing,
windward bound; or hungry shark prowling round the ship, lent momentary interest to the watery
solitude. It was a privilege to fall in with another cruiser, whether of our own or of the
English flag. On such occasions, down would go the boats for the exchange of visits, the comparison
of notes, and sometimes the discussion of a dinner. The English officers had numerous captures
and handsome sums of prize-money to tell of, while our people, as a rule, could only talk of
hopes and possibilities. Our laws regulating captures were as inflexible as the Westminster
Catechism, and a captain could not detain a vessel without great risk of civil damages, unless
slaves were actually on board. Suspected ships might have all the fittings and infamous equipage
for the slave traffic on board, but if their masters produced correct papers the vessels could
not be touched; and our officers not infrequently had the mortification of learning that ships
they had overhauled, and believed to be slavers, but could not seize under their instructions,
got off the coast eventually with large cargoes of ebon humanity on board.

Not so with the English commanders, whose instructions enabled them to take and send to their
prize-courts all vessels, except those under the American flag, under the slightest showing
of nefarious character; and their hauls of prize-money were rich and frequent.

The intercourse with the English officers, notes Master Perkins, at first cordial and agreeable,
became, after a few months, cold and indifferent. Her Majesty's officers no longer cared to
show politeness or friendly feeling. The first premonitions of the Rebellion in the John Brown
raid, the break-up of the democracy at Charleston, and the violence of the Southern press concerning
the probable results of the pending presidential election, convincing them that the long-predicted
and wished-for day--the breaking up of the Republic--was nigh at hand, and their real feelings
as Englishmen cropped out but too plainly; but of this, more anon.

Despite the perils of the surf, the dangers of the inhospitable climate, and the unfriendly
character of some of the savage tribes to be met with, the adventurous spirit and dauntless
courage of Master Perkins was not to be balked. Volunteering for every duty, no matter how
dangerous, hardly a boat ever left the ship that he was not in it. The life of the mess through
his unfailing good humor and exuberant flow of spirits, he was the soul of every expedition,
whether of service or pleasure; and before the cruise of some twenty-two months was up, he
came to know almost every prominent tribe, chief, and king on the coast. Now dining with a
king off the strangest of viands; now holding "palaver" with another; now spending a day with
a chief and his numerous wives; now visiting a French barracoon, where, under a fiction of
law, the victims were collected to be shipped as unwilling apprentices, not slaves, to be returned
to their native wilds, if they lived long enough; now ascending a river dangerous for boats,
where, if the boat had capsized, himself and crew would but have served a morning's meal to
the hungry sharks held as fetich by the natives along the stream, who yearly sacrifice young
girls reared for the purpose to their propitiation; now scouring the bush in pursuit of the
gorilla or shooting hippopotami by the half-dozen, and other adventures and exploits wherein
duty, excitement, and gratified curiosity were intermingled with danger and hairbreadth escape
that few would care to tempt.

On one occasion, he volunteered to go with a boat's crew and find the mouth of the Settee River,
not dreaming of landing through the unusually heavy surf. "But," said he, "in pulling along
about half a mile from shore, a roller struck the boat and capsized it. Of course we were obliged
to swim for shore; in fact, we had little to do with it, for the moment the boat was upset
we were driven into the surf, and not one of us thought we should ever reach the shore, for
if we were not lost in the surf, the sharks would eat us up. As I rose on the top of a wave
I could look ahead and see the stretch of wild, tossing surf, which it seemed impossible for
any one to live in; but when I looked back I could count all my men striking out, which was
very encouraging, as I feared one or two might be under the boat. I thought for a moment of
you all at home, and wondered if mother would not feel a little frightened if she knew how
strong the chances were against her son's receiving any more letters from home. Just then a
roller struck me and carried me down so deep I was caught by the undertow and carried toward
the sea, instead of the land. When I came to the surface I tried to look out for the next roller,
but it was no use; the first one half-drowned me, and the next kept me down so long that when
I rose I was in the wildest of the surf, which tumbled and rolled me about in a way I did not
like at all. My eyes, nose, and mouth were full of sand, and, in fact, I thought my time had
come. Just then I looked on shore, and saw two of my men dragging some one from the water,
and at that sight I struck out with one despairing kick, and managed to get near enough for
two of the men to reach me; but that was all I knew of the affair until a little after sunset,
when I became conscious of the fact that I was being well shaken, and I heard one of the men
say, 'Cheer up, Mr. Perkins! Your boat and all the men are on shore.' This was such good news
that I did not much mind the uncomfortable position in which I found myself. I was covered
with sand and stretched across a log about two feet high, my head on one side and my feet on
the other. The men had worked a long while to bring me to. Three of the men were half-drowned
and one injured. We managed to get the boat in the river, but suffered awfully from thirst.
The next morning we lost our way, and, after pulling around till mid-afternoon, we stumbled
on some natives fishing. We followed them home, but found them such a miserable, bad-looking
lot of negroes that we expected trouble. Knowing that the native villages in the daytime are
left in charge of the old men and women, and not knowing what might happen when the men came
back, we killed some chickens, and, with some sweet potatoes, made quite a meal. The strongest
of us, myself and three others, got ready for a fight, while the rest manned the boat ready
for our retreat. Shortly after this the chief came back, and about a hundred men with him.
I told the chief I had come to pay him a visit, and we had a great palaver; but he would not
give us anything to eat, and we made up our minds that it was a dangerous neighborhood; so
we moved down on a sand-spit in sight of the ship, and there we stayed three days and nights.
We built a tent and fortification, traded off most of our clothes for something to eat, and
slept unpleasantly near several hundred yelling savages. All this while the ship could render
no assistance; but on the third day the Kroomen came on shore with some oars, and, after trying
all one day, we managed, just at night, to get through the surf and back to the ship. It was
a happy time for us, and I may say for all on board, as they had been very anxious about us.
Not far north of this, if you happen to get cast ashore, they kill and eat you at once, for
cannibalism is by no means extinct among the negroes."

The sequel of this perilous experience was that all of them were stricken down with the dread
African fever which, if it does not at all times kill, but too often shatters the constitution
beyond remedy; and the fact that five officers, including one commanding officer, and a proportionate
number of men, had been invalided home, and another commanding officer had died, all due to
climatic causes, attests the general unhealthfulness of the coast. Other interesting incidents
and narrow escapes, in which Master Perkins had part, might be told, did not lack of space
forbid; but enough has been shown to impress the fact that African cruising, even in a well-found
man-of-war, is not altogether the work and pleasure of a holiday; yet, in looking over young
Perkins's letters, we cannot forbear this description of the expertness of the Kroomen in landing
through the surf.

