Finding Midas and Son (METHUEN) described on the wrapper as a tale of "the struggle of a young
man and his immense riches," I said to myself (rather like Triplet in the play) that here was
a struggle at which it would greatly hearten me to assist. As a fact, however, the conflict
proved to be somewhat postponed; it took Mr. STEPHEN McKENNA more than two hundred pages to
get the seconds out of the ring and leave his hero, Deryk, face to face with an income of something
over a million a year. Before this happened the youth had become engaged to a girl, been thrown
over by her, experienced the wiles of Circe and gone in more or less vaguely for journalism.
Then came the income and the question what to do with it. Of course he didn't know how to use
it to the best advantage; it is universal experience that other people never do. But Deryk
impressed me as more than commonly lacking in resource. All he could think of was to finance
and share in an archæological venture (rather fun), and to purchase a Pall Mall club-house--apparently
the R.A.C.--and do it up as a London abode for himself and his old furniture. Also for his
wife, as fortune had now flung him again into the arms of his early love. But it is just here
that the subtle and slightly cruel cleverness of Mr. McKENNA's scheme becomes manifest. The
million-a-year had been at work on Deryk; it had slain his capacity for romance. In plain words,
he found that he cared more for his furniture than for his fiancée, whose adoration soon bored
him to shrieking point. So there you are. I shall not betray the author's solution of his own
problem. I don't think he has proved his somewhat obvious point as to the peril of great possessions.
Deryk was hardly a quite normal subject, and Idina (the girl) was a little fool who would have
irritated a crossing-sweeper. But what he certainly has done is to provide some scenes of pre-war
London not unworthy to be companion pictures to those in Sonia; and this, I fancy, will be
good enough for most readers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Its publishers call The Pot Boils (CONSTABLE) a "provocative" book, and certainly the title
at least deserves this epithet. But I decline to be drawn into the obvious retort. Besides,
with all its faults, the story exhibits an almost flaunting disregard of those qualities that
make the best seller. About the author I am prepared to wager, first, that "STORM JAMESON"
is a disguise; secondly, that the personality behind it is feminine. I have hinted that the
tale is hardly likely to gain universal popularity; let me add that certain persons, notably
very young Socialists and experts in Labour journalism, may find it of absorbing interest.
It is a young book, almost exclusively about young people, written (or I mistake) by a youthful
hand. These striplings and maidens are all poor, mostly vain, and without exception fulfilled
of a devastating verbosity. We meet them first at a "Northern University," talking, reforming
the earth, kissing, and again talking--about the kisses. Thence they and the tale move to London,
and the same process is repeated. It is all rather depressingly narrow in outlook; though within
these limits there are interesting and even amusing scenes. Also the author displays now and
again a happy dexterity of phrase (I remember one instance--about "web-footed Socialists ...
dividing and sub-dividing into committees, like worms cut by a spade"), which encourages me
to hope that she will do better things with a scheme of wider appeal. But to the general, especially
the middle-aged general, the contents of her present Pot will, I fear, be only caviare.

       *       *       *       *       *

Little Sara Lee Kennedy, betrothed to one of those alert grim-jawed young Americans one sees
in the advertising pages of The Ladies' Home Journal, learns of the suffering in Belgium at
the beginning of the great War and finds she must do something about it. She can cook, so she
will go and make soup for KING ALBERT's men. She takes her young man's photograph and his surly
disapproval; also a few dollars hastily collected from her obscure township in Pa.; and becomes
the good angel of a shattered sector of the Belgian line. And she finds in The Amazing Interlude
(MURRAY) her prince--a real prince--in the Secret Service, and, after the usual reluctances
and brave play (made for the sake of deferring the inevitable) with the photograph of the old
love, is at last gloriously on with the new. It is a very charming love-story, and MARY ROBERTS
RINEHART makes a much better thing of the alarms and excursions of war than you would think.
It was no good, I found, being superior about it and muttering "Sentiment" when you had to
blink away the unbidden tear lest your fireside partner should find you out. So let me commend
to you this idealised vision of a corner of the great War seen through the eyes of an American
woman of vivid sympathies.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rovers of the Night Sky (CASSELL) is for more reasons than one a welcome addition to my rapidly
bulging collection of books about flying. "NIGHT HAWK, M.C.," was in the Infantry--what he
calls a "Gravel-Cruncher"--before he took to the air, and by no means the least interesting
part of his sketches is the way in which he explains the co-operation which existed between
the fliers and the men fighting on the ground. And his delight when a bombing expedition was
successful in giving instant assistance to the Infantry is frequently shown. After his training
in England "NIGHT HAWK" was attached as an observer to a night-flying squadron in France, and
he tells us of his adventures with no sense of self-importance but with an honest appreciation
of their value to the general scheme of operations. He has also a keen eye for the humours
of life, and can make his jest with most admirable brevity. "Doubtless," he says in a foreword,
"the whole world will fly before many years have passed, but for the moment most people have
to be content to read about it." I am one of them, and he has added to my contentment.

       *       *       *       *       *

My studies of recent fiction induce the belief that modern Wales may be divided into two parts,
in one of which the inhabitants call each other Bach and follow a code of morals that I simply
will not stoop to characterise; while the other is at once more Saxon in idiom and considerably
more melodramatic in its happenings. It is to the latter province that I must assign A Little
Welsh Girl (HODDER AND STOUGHTON), the Romance, with a big R, of Dylis Morgan, who pushed an
unappreciated suitor over a precipice and came to London to make her fortune in revue. Really
the suitor didn't go all the way down the precipice; but as, by the time he recovered, Dylis,
disguised, had fled for England, he was promptly arrested for her murder, and as Dylis thought
she had murdered him there was presently so much confusion (increased for me by the hopelessly
unpronounceable names of a large cast) that I found it increasingly hard to keep the affair
in hand. As for Dylis's theatrical career--well, you know how these things are managed in fiction;
for my part I was left wondering whether Mr. HOWEL EVANS' pictures of Wales were as romantically
conceived as his conception of a West-End theatre. Though of course we all know that Welsh
people do sometimes make even more sensational triumphs in the Metropolis; just possible indeed
that this fact may have some bearing on the recent flood of Cambrian fiction. Certainly, if
A Little Welsh Girl achieves success on the strength of Mr. LLOYD GEORGE's triumph, she may
thank her luck, for I have my doubts whether she could manage it unassisted.

