"Then come here this afternoon, just before church, and I will take you to the minister. He
makes all these arrangements."

The boy went home overflowing with great anticipations. He said nothing to his father on the
subject. He dared not trust himself yet. Never did hours pass so slowly as those between dinner
and church that afternoon. But the good time came and Jonas was true to his appointment, as
was the organist, who took him into the vestry-room, and introduced him as an applicant for
the vacancy.

Tall, white-haired, and benign the minister stood as Jonas told him his desire.

"Yes, my boy, the present organist will leave in three weeks. Will that give you time to become
acquainted with our service?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Then I have only to hear you play before deciding. Will you take the organist's place this
afternoon? He will show you the forms."

The proposal was sudden and unexpected, and made Jonas' heart quake; but he felt that all depended
on his courage, and he accepted.

He took his seat before the great organ with a brave but serious spirit. The bell ceased tolling;
the minister entered; and Jonas pressed his slight fingers upon the first chord of the voluntary,
which, extemporaneous as it was, may be considered the corner-stone of his life.

The music that afternoon was simple and pure as the heart from which it flowed. Again Jonas
presented himself before the minister, who received him in a most affectionate manner.

"Keep to this simple style," said he, "and we shall never wish to change. How much salary have
you fixed upon?"

"Indeed, Sir, I never thought of it. I only wished to play in a church."

The minister sat down at a table, and taking pen and paper, went on: "You shall receive what
we have always paid--the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars a year. I will draw the agreement.
Come now, and sign your name."

"Your chirography is not equal to your organ-playing," continued the minister, smiling, as
he saw the childlike, uneven signature of Jonas Johnson: "but one cannot expect everything
of such a little fellow. Here, then, is the contract. Take care of it."

Jonas took leave of his friend and hurried home. When the family of the organ-builder gathered
about the hearthstone that evening, the youngest came to the father and drew forth his contract.

"What is this, my son?"

Jonas made no answer, but waited while the spectacles were adjusted on the respective noses
of both parents--waited till they had read the agreement, and his father had taken two turns
across the floor, and said, "He's going to be a great master, wife. God bless him!" And then
he could wait no longer, but ran up to his little garret, and throwing himself upon the cot,
gave vent to his welling heart in sobs of joy, and hope, and ambition.

The organ-builder's prophecy came true. The world is now indebted to Jonas for some of its
best church music. As a composer and teacher he is "great." Those who are as fortunate as the
writer of this sketch in having him as a teacher to their children can truly say they know
a "great master" of music.

Jonas' perseverance to become a musician, notwithstanding the severe discipline to which he
was subjected, was rewarded by success. And not only was his perseverance commendable in accomplishing
a musical education, but in securing a position in which to be useful. And every boy and girl
should take this as a lesson, that by their own energy and perseverance may be laid the foundation
of their success in life.

LYMAN DEAN'S TESTIMONIALS.

I do not believe two more worthy, excellent people could be found than Gideon Randal and his
wife. To lift the fallen, and minister to the destitute was their constant habit and delight,
so that often they shortened their own comforts for the good of others. Mr. Randal's friends
urged him to reduce his charities, as such generous giving might mar his fortune and bring
him to want; but his unfailing reply was:--

"I think there's enough left to carry Martha and me through life, and some over. What we give
to the poor, we lend to the Lord, and if a dark day comes, He will provide."

A dark day did come, but it was not till after he had reached threescore and ten years. As
old age advanced, his little farm had become less productive, and debts accumulated. Being
forced to raise money, he had borrowed a thousand dollars of Eugene Harrington, giving him
a mortgage on his house for security. The interest was regularly paid, and with this Esquire
Harrington was well satisfied; but he died suddenly, and his son, a merciless, grasping man,
wrote to Mr. Randal, demanding payment of the mortgage. The old man asked for an extension
of the time, but he pressed the demand, and threatened if it was not settled within a given
time, to deprive him of his home. Mr. Randal was greatly distressed.

"Martha," he said to his wife, "young Harrington is a hard man. He has me in his power now,
and I fear he will not scruple to ruin me. I think I had better go and talk with him, and tell
him how little I have. It may be he'll pity two old people, and allow us better terms."

"But husband, you are not used to traveling, and Harrowtown is a hundred miles away, and you
are old and feeble, too."

"True, wife, but I can say to him a great deal more than I can write, and besides, Luke Conway
lives there. I took an interest in him when he was a poor boy. Perhaps he'll advise and help
me, now that I'm in trouble."

At last, seeing he felt that he must go, Martha reluctantly consented, and fitted him out with
wifely care.

The next morning was warm and sunny for November, and Mr. Randal started for Harrowtown.

"Gideon," called Mrs. Randal, as he walked slowly down the road, "be sure and take tight hold
of the railing when you get in and out of the cars."

"I'll be careful. You take good care of yourself, Martha;" and, with a parting look, the old
man hastened on to take the stage, which was to convey him to the railroad station. But misfortune
met him at the very outset of his journey. The stage was heavily loaded, and on the way, one
of the wheels broke down, which caused such a detention that Mr. Randal missed the morning
train, and the next did not come for several hours.

It was afternoon when he finally started. He was anxious and weary from long waiting; and after
three stations were passed, he began to ask questions.

"How long before we get to Harrowtown?" he inquired, stopping the busy conductor.

"We get there at half past eight."

Another question was upon Mr. Randal's lips, but the conductor had hurried on. He looked around
as if to appeal to some one else, but turned back, talking to himself. "Not get there till
into the evening," he said, "and pitch dark, for there's no moon now. I shan't know where to
go." The poor old man was sorely troubled.

Presently the conductor came back, and as he passed his seat, he stopped him again.

"Mr. Conductor, how shall I know when to get out? I've never been to Harrowtown, and I don't
want to get out at the wrong place."

"Give yourself no concern," was the polite reply. "I'll tell you when we come to Harrowtown.
I won't forget you."

Soothed by this assurance, Mr. Randal's mind grew tranquil, and he finally went to sleep.

In the seat behind him sat a tall, handsome boy. His name was Albert Gregory. He was bright
and intelligent, but his well-featured face was spoiled by a wicked-looking eye and a hard,
cruel mouth.

He saw the aged passenger fall asleep, and nudged his seat-fellow.

"Look there, John. By and by, I'll play a joke on that old country greeny, and you'll see fun."

On rushed the swift express; mile after mile was passed; daylight faded and the lamps were
lit in the cars, and still the aged man slept, watched by his purposed tormentor, and the other
boy who waited to "see fun."

At length the speed of the train began to slacken, coming near a stopping-place. Albert sprang
up and shook Mr. Randal violently.

"Wake up! Wake up!" he called, sharply, putting his mouth close to his ear. "This is Harrowtown.
You must get off here."

The old man, thus roughly roused, started from his seat and gazed around him, bewildered. The
change from day to night, the unaccustomed waking on a moving train, the glare of the lights,
added tenfold to his confusion.

"Wh--what did you say boy?" he asked helplessly.

"This is Harrowtown. The place where you want to stop. You must get off. Be quick or you'll
be carried by."

The noise of the brakes, and the distracted attention of the passengers on reaching a new station,
possibly ignorance of the real locality on the part of those near enough to have heard him,
prevented any correction of the boy's cruel falsehood. Mr. Randal knew it was not the conductor
who had aroused him; but, supposing Albert to be some employee of the road, he hurried to the
car door with tottering steps. The name of the station was called at the other end, as unlike
as possible to the name of "Harrowtown," but his dull ears did not notice it. He got off upon
the platform, and before he could recover himself or knew his error, the train was in motion again.

Albert was in ecstasies over the success of his "joke," and shook all over with laughter, in
which, of course, his companion joined. "Oh dear! that's too good for anything!" he cried,
"aint it, John?"

John assented that it was very funny indeed.

Neither of the boys noticed that the seat lately occupied by poor, deceived Mr. Randal had
just been taken by a fine-looking middle-aged man, wrapped in a heavy cloak, who appeared to
be absorbed in his own thoughts, but really heard every word they said.

They kept up a brisk conversation, Albert speaking in quite a loud tone, for he was feeling
very merry. "Ha, ha, ha!--but I did think the old fool would hear the brakeman call the station,
though. I didn't suppose I could get him any further than the door. To think of his clambering
clear out on the platform, and getting left! He believed every word I told him. What a delicious
old simpleton!"

And having exhausted that edifying subject for the moment, he presently began to brag of his
plans and prospects.

"I don't believe you stand much of a chance there; they say Luke Conway is awful particular,"
the middle-aged stranger heard John remark.

"Pooh! shut up!" cried Albert. "Particular! That's just it, and makes my chance all the better.
I've brought the kind of recommendation that a particular man wants, you see."

"But there'll be lots of other fellows trying for the place."

"Don't care if there's fifty," said Albert, "I'd come in ahead of 'em all. I've got testimonials
of character and qualifications from Professor Howe, Rev. Joseph Lee, Dr. Henshaw, and Esquire
Jenks, the great railroad contractor. His name alone is enough to secure me the situation."

At this juncture, the strange gentleman turned around and gave Albert a quick, searching glance.
But the conceited boy was too much occupied with himself to notice the movement, and kept on
talking. Now and then the thought of the victim whom he had fooled seemed to come back and
tickle him amazingly. "Wonder where the old man is now. Ha, ha! Do you suppose he has found
out where Harrowtown is? Oh, but wasn't it rich to see how scared he was when I waked him up?
And how he jumped and scrambled out of the car! 'Pon my word, I never saw anything so comical."

Here the stranger turned again and shot another quick glance, this time from indignant eyes,
and his lips parted as if about to utter a stern reproof. But he did not speak. Some hidden
motive withheld him.

