185. WHAT THE TRADE UNION WANTS.--One of the basic aims of the trade union is either to raise
wages or to prevent their reduction. Because of the constant shiftings of supply and demand,
the prices of commodities are rarely stationary for very long. Over any extended period of
time prices are either rising or falling. During a period of rising prices the workmen are
at a relative disadvantage, [Footnote: Rising prices affect all who purchase commodities, of
course, but here we are intent upon the position of the laborer only.] because they have to
pay for commodities higher prices than they had anticipated when they contracted to work for
a definite wage. In such a case, the union attempts to secure higher wages for its members.
When, on the other hand, prices are falling, the workmen gain, because they do not have to
pay as high prices as they had anticipated. In this latter case, the laborers attempt to maintain
their advantage by opposing any reduction in wages.

The desire of the trade unions to improve the general condition of the working classes has
steadily widened the program of organized labor. Shorter hours and better conditions of work
are important trade union demands. Unions quite generally approve the principle of a minimum
wage, [Footnote: The principle of the minimum wage is discussed in the next chapter, Sections
205-207.] at least for women and child workers. Formerly, and to some extent even now, the
unions have opposed the introduction of labor-saving machinery on the grounds that it displaces
workmen and hence causes unemployment. Union members generally prefer to be paid by the hour
or by the day, rather than so much per unit of product. The reason given for the preference
is that strain and undue fatigue often result from piece-work, as the system of pay on the
basis of units of product is called. Trade unions universally demand that employers recognize
the principle of collective bargaining, by which is meant the privilege of workmen dealing
with the employer collectively or through the union. Very often, also, the unions demand the
closed shop, that is to say, a shop from which all non-union employees are excluded.

186. WHAT THE EMPLOYER WANTS.--Price movements likewise affect the employer. But whereas the
laborer is at a relative disadvantage when prices are rising, the employer tends to gain, for
the reason that he secures for his product higher prices than he had expected. [Footnote: In
a period of rising prices, the employer's costs also tend to rise, but generally not so rapidly
as do prices.] Suppose, for example that a shoe manufacturer can make a profit if a pair of
shoes sells for $4.00. If later the price rises to $5.00 and his expenses remain stationary
or very nearly so, he reaps an unusually large profit. And whereas in a period of falling prices
the laborer tends to gain, the employer often loses heavily, for the reason that he must sell
at a relatively low price goods produced at a relatively high cost. If, in the case given above,
the price of the pair of shoes falls from $4.00 to $3.00, while the expenses of the manufacturer
remain stationary, or very nearly so, he may make little or no profit. Thus while prices are
rising the employer attempts to maintain his advantage by resisting an increase in wages, while
in a period of falling prices he seeks to cut down his expenses by reducing wages. In either
case the immediate interests of workmen and employer are antagonistic.

Just as the growing complexity of the industrial situation has enlarged the trade union program,
so the aims of employers have steadily increased in number and in importance. On the grounds
that it restricts the fullest utilization of his plant, the employer very often objects to
a shortening of the working day, even where there is a corresponding decrease in the day-wage.
Some employers are unwilling to provide sanitary workshops for their employees, or otherwise
to improve the conditions of employment. The employer generally objects to the minimum wage,
as constituting an interference with his "right" to offer workmen what wages he chooses. Collective
bargaining is accepted by many employers, but many others insist upon the right to hire and
discharge men as they see fit, without being forced to consider the wishes of the union. Employers
often oppose the closed shop, and insist upon the open shop, an open shop being defined as
one in which workmen are employed without regard to whether or not they are members of a union.

187. METHODS OF INDUSTRIAL WARFARE.--Both capital and labor back up their demands by a powerful
organization using a variety of weapons. The trade union generally attempts to enforce its
demands by threat of, or use of, the strike. A strike is a concerted stoppage of work initiated
by the workmen as a group. Sometimes accompanying the strike is the boycott, which may be defined
as a concerted avoidance of business relations with one or more employers, or with those who
sympathize with those employers. The strike is generally accompanied by the practice of picketing,
by which is meant the posting of union agents whose duty it is to attempt to persuade non-union
workmen not to fill the places of the striking workmen. Pickets may also attempt to persuade
customers not to patronize the employer against whom a strike has been launched. Sometimes
picketing leads to intimidation and violence on the part of either strikers or representatives
of the employers.

In turn, the employer may employ a variety of weapons against workmen with whom he cannot agree.
An employer may make use of the lockout, that is, he may refuse to allow his labor force to
continue at work. Many employers also use the blacklist,  i.e. the circulation of information
among employers for the purpose of forewarning one another against the employment of certain
designated workmen. The employer may also attempt to end a strike by persuading non-union men
to fill the places vacated by the strikers. Such men as accept are known as strike-breakers.
On the plea that the strike may result in the destruction of his property, the employer may
resort to the injunction. This is an order secured from a court, and restraining certain laborers
in the employer's interest.

188. THE COST OF INDUSTRIAL WARFARE.--The struggles of labor against capital constitute a species
of warfare which involves the general public. Regardless of whether a particular dispute ends
in favor of the laborers or the employer, every strike, lockout, or other interference with
industrial coöperation lessens the amount of consumable goods in existence. Thus aside from
the fact that industrial warfare encourages class antagonisms, it is an important cause of
the relative scarcity of goods, and the resulting tendency of prices to rise. Often great injury
results from a dispute which originally was of small proportions. In 1902, for example, the
anthracite coal strike cost the country more than $100,000,000, though the strike had been
initiated because of a local dispute over recognition of the union. In 1919, when we were suffering
from a general scarcity of goods, there occurred in this country more than three thousand strikes,
involving a loss of more than $2,000,000,000 in decreased production.

189. NECESSITY OF INDUSTRIAL PEACE.--Industrial warfare very often results in the correction
of abuses, but in many cases it seems to bring little or no benefit to either labor or capital.
In any case, it is a costly method, and one which constitutes a menace to the peace of the
community. American democracy demands that in the settlement of disputes between labor and
capital, industrial warfare be replaced by some method less costly, less violent, and more
in harmony with the principles of justice and civilized behavior. Responsibility for the present
extent of industrial warfare cannot definitely be placed upon either capital or labor, but
at least both sides should be obliged to recognize that the public is a third party to every
industrial dispute. We should insist upon fair play for both capital and labor, but we should
likewise insist that the interests of the public be safeguarded.

190. SOME METHODS OF INDUSTRIAL PEACE.--As has already been pointed out, profit sharing is
not of great importance in lessening industrial unrest. Various systems of bonuses and pensions
have temporarily improved the position of some groups of workmen, but experience has proven
both bonuses and pensions to be limited in scope. Employers are often unwilling to adopt such
devices as these, while the laborers frequently regard them as paternalistic measures which
at best are a poor substitute for the higher wages to which they consider themselves entitled.
Existing evils are often lessened by welfare work, which includes such measures as the establishment
of schools, libraries, and playgrounds for the laborers. But in many cases welfare work is
initiated by the employer for the purpose of diverting the attention of the workmen from their
fundamental grievances, and for this reason it is often opposed by the workmen. All of the
measures enumerated in this section are of more or less value, but as methods of combating
industrial warfare, they have proved to be palliative, rather than remedial or preventive.

191. THE TRADE AGREEMENT.--In some industries there is a growing tendency for employers not
only to recognize the union, but also to make a collective contract, or trade agreement, with
the unionized workmen. The trade agreement may lead to the formation of councils in which representatives
of both workmen and employer attempt to reach a friendly agreement upon disputed matters. The
trade agreement has been particularly successful in many industries in England. In this country
it is best known in the soft coal mining industry in eastern United States, and in the needle
trades of New York City. On the whole, the trade agreement has not been markedly successful
in the United States. Although it smoothes out minor differences, the unions still prefer to
back their more important demands by use of the strike.

192. VOLUNTARY ARBITRATION.--Since 1898 the several states have been giving an increasing amount
of attention to the creation of boards of industrial conciliation, mediation, and arbitration.
[Footnote: The words conciliation, mediation, and arbitration are variously used, but the following
distinction may be of use. Mediation is an attempt to get the disputants to come together for
the purpose of discussing their grievances. Conciliation is aid extended to the disputants
in the actual settlement of the dispute. Arbitration implies that a third party settles the
dispute and renders a decision.] Most states now have some provision for a board whose duty
it is to attempt to eliminate industrial warfare. The powers and duties of these boards vary
from state to state. In some states the board may investigate labor disputes on its own initiative,
but it is not obliged to make an investigation. In other states the investigation of industrial
disputes is compulsory.

Boards of the type discussed in this section have no power to compel the disputants to arbitrate
their troubles, though they may persuade the parties involved to resort to arbitration. When
the disputants agree to allow the state board to arbitrate the dispute, and when also they
previously promise to abide by the decision of the board, the award of the state board is binding
upon both sides. When the parties to the dispute have not previously agreed to abide by the
award, the board cannot force an acceptance of its decision, but can only rely upon public
sentiment to help effect a just settlement.

193. COMPULSORY ARBITRATION IN NEW ZEALAND AND AUSTRALIA.--The frequent refusal of labor and
capital willingly to submit their differences to arbitration has led to the development of
the principle of compulsory arbitration.

In New Zealand, compulsory arbitration was adopted as early as 1894. In that country the arbitrating
body is known as the court of arbitration, the decisions of which are absolute and binding.
At the discretion of the court, the awards handed down may be extended to embrace other employees
or employers in the same trade, or in the same locality, or in the whole country. Violations
of the award, either by labor or by capital, are punishable by heavy fines. An even more drastic
form of compulsory arbitration has been adopted in Australia.

Due to the influence of many complicating factors, the status of compulsory arbitration in
these two countries is uncertain. Many students of the question maintain that this form of
arbitration has materially reduced industrial warfare; on the other hand, other authorities
declare that compulsory arbitration in New Zealand and Australia has not markedly improved
industrial relations.

194. COMPULSORY ARBITRATION IN THE UNITED STATES.--Although the principle of compulsory arbitration
has been familiar to American students of labor problems for more than a quarter of a century,
there is as yet very little sentiment in favor of its application to industrial disputes in
this country. The explanation of this is not far to seek. Individualism is so strong in the
United States that compulsory arbitration is regarded by many Americans as an unwarranted interference
in private business. It is still generally true that both labor and capital prefer to settle
their disputes in open struggle. Equally important, perhaps, is the feeling that compulsory
arbitration laws would nullify the constitutional guarantee that no citizen shall be deprived
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. [Footnote: For an explanation of
this point, see Chapter XIX, Section 214.]

However, a definite step toward compulsory arbitration was taken when in 1920 the State of
Kansas established a Court of Industrial Relations "for the purpose of preserving the public
peace, protecting the public health, preventing industrial strife, disorder, and waste, and
securing regular and orderly conduct of the businesses directly affecting the living conditions
of the people." The law of 1920 declared illegal the suspension of work in those industries
which are designated as essential and necessary to the community life. Industrial disputes
arising in such industries are subject to compulsory arbitration by the court. The merits of
this court are still being debated. Some authorities declare that the court has already demonstrated
its value, but other observers claim that so far this tribunal has not operated to reduce labor
troubles in Kansas.

195. STATUS OF THE DEMANDS OF LABOR.--For a number of years the attitude of labor has been
clearly aggressive, while the attitude of capital has tended to be one of resistance. In view
of this fact, the simplest way of considering the merits of the industrial situation is to
examine the demands of labor. The justice of these demands cannot be gone into here, but a
few words of general application may be helpful.

The proper determination of wages depends, of course, upon the particular circumstances. No
general rule can be laid down, except the very obvious one that wages cannot permanently go
so high as to wipe out profits in an industry, nor yet so low as to render it impossible for
the workmen to secure a decent living.

The steady improvement of living and working conditions is desirable, and is a challenge to
any progressive society.

Shorter work hours are desirable, wherever the cutting down of the working day does not too
greatly hamper production. Many economists feel that an eight-hour day will prove a social
gain only if introduced gradually. They believe that it should be introduced in proportion
as the industrial productivity of the country increases to compensate for the shortening of
the working day.

Opposition to the introduction of labor-saving machinery is both useless and short-sighted.
The officials of most unions now advise workmen not to oppose the adoption of machinery, but
rather to fit themselves to operate the machines.

The question of a closed shop or an open shop is largely a matter of opinion. The problem will
probably continue to be disputed for a long time to come. Many students of labor conditions
feel that the closed shop is justifiable only when accompanied by the open union. By an open
union is meant a union into which all laborers competent to do the work are admitted freely.
Where the open union principle is adopted, Professor Taussig points out, the closed shop is
no longer a monopolistic device to shut out competition and raise wages for a small group.
It becomes, instead, a means of promoting mutual aid and collective bargaining.

Many employers still refuse to recognize the principle of collective bargaining, but from the
social point of view collective bargaining is desirable. In many cases it so strengthens the
position of the laborers that they are able to compete with the employer more nearly on terms
of equality. Under such conditions competition in the labor market is in a healthy state. The
difficulty is, of course, that some unions may take advantage of their strengthened position
to enforce unduly severe conditions upon the employer.

196. THE OUTLOOK.--Although it is probable that industrial disagreements will long endure,
we have a right to expect that continued progress will be made in settling these disputes peaceably.
By many it is believed that compulsory arbitration is the most effective method of securing
industrial peace, but for reasons already given, the extension of this form of arbitration
will probably be slow in this country. English experience would indicate that we have not yet
exhausted the possibilities of the trade agreement, but though this device is becoming better
known in the United States, both the American laborer and the American employer are still disposed
to settle their differences by means of the strike, the lockout, and similar weapons.

The present century is an age of industrial stress and change, and it is possible that the
ultimate solution of the disputes between labor and capital has not yet been advanced. From
the data now at hand, however, it is maintained by many that labor disputes must ultimately
be eradicated through the development of industrial democracy. Industrial democracy implies
the joint direction of industrial policies by employer and employees, working together harmoniously
and in the spirit of equality. When industrial democracy is attained, according to this view,
mutual trust and the spirit of friendly coöperation will enable labor and capital to adjust
their differences peaceably and economically, without dictation from any outside source.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. Why are we accustomed to speak of labor and capital as the two chief factors in production?

2. Why have labor organizations arisen?

3. Name some employers' associations.

4. Contrast the aims of the union with the aims of the employers' association.

5. Discuss the methods of industrial warfare.

6. Why is industrial warfare undesirable?

7. What is the attitude of American democracy toward industrial warfare?

8. Name some minor methods of industrial peace.

9. Discuss the character of the trade agreement.

10. Distinguish between conciliation, mediation, and arbitration.

11. Discuss compulsory arbitration in New Zealand and Australia.

12. What is the significance of the Kansas Court of Industrial Relations?

13. What is the outlook for industrial peace in this country?

14. Define industrial democracy.

Or all of the following:

2. Bullock, Elements of Economics, chapter xiii.

3. Carlton, History and Problems of Organized Labor, chapter v.

4. Ely, Outlines of Economics, chapter xxii.

5. Fetter, Modern Economic Problems, chapter xx.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. What are the three types of labor organizations? (Fetter, page 299.)

2. Who were the Knights of Labor? (Bullock, page 316.)

3. What is the economic justification of the trade union? (Ely, pages 445-446.)

4. Outline the history of the American Federation of Labor. (Carlton, pages 74-82.)

5. What are some of the secondary functions of the trade union? (Fetter, pages 298-299.)

6. Among what groups of workers is the trade union strong? Among what groups is it weak? (Fetter,
page 300.)

7. What effect has unionism had upon wages? (Fetter, pages 306-307.)

8. What is meant by limitation of output? (Ely, pages 449-450.)

9. What is a standard wage? (Bullock, pages 320-321.)

10. What is the legal status of the strike? (Bullock, pages 328-329.)

11. What is scientific management? (Bullock, pages 339-340.)

12. What will probably be the future development of the trade union? (Ely, pages 468-469.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Origin and growth of the trade union movement in your section.

2. Select some one trade union for study. Obtain information on the following points, either
by means of literature issued by the union, or by personal interview with union officials:

(a) Aims of the union.

(b) Insurance benefits.

(c) Political activities of the union.

(d) Strike procedure.

(e) Attitude toward arbitration.

3. Select for study an employers' association in your locality. Obtain information on the following
points. (If no association is available, consult a friendly employer):

(a) Attitude of the employer toward the trade union movement.

(b) Attitude toward the closed shop.

(c) What the employer does when a strike is launched against him.

(d) Use of the injunction.

(e) Attitude of the employer toward arbitration.

4. If possible, investigate an actual strike and report upon it.

5. The laws of your state with regard to mediation, conciliation, and arbitration. Do you think
further legislation on this subject is advisable?

II

6. History of the trade union movement in the United States. (Consult any available text on
labor problems. See also Carlton, Organized Labor in American History.)

7. The Knights of Labor. (Any standard text on labor problems, or an encyclopedia.)

8. Trade union policies. (Bullock, Selected Readings in Economics, pages 589-613.)

9. Program of the American Federation of Labor. (Any standard text on labor problems, or an
encyclopedia.)

10. The theory of price changes. (Taussig, Principles of Economics, vol. i, chapter xxii.)

11. The problem of adjusting wages to prices. (Bloomfield, Selected Articles on Problems of
Labor, pages 56-75.)

12. Reducing the labor turnover. (Annals, vol. ixxi, pages 1-81.)

13. Scientific management. (Any standard text on labor problems. See also Hoxie, Scientific
Management and Labor.)

14. Incorporation of the trade union. (Bloomfield, Selected Articles on Problems of Labor,
pages 262-267. Commons, Trade Unionism and Labor Problems, chapter vi.)

15. Employers' associations. (Any standard text on labor problems.)

16. Principles of industrial relations, as formulated by the Chamber of Commerce of the United
States of America. (Write to the Chamber's headquarters, Washington, D. C., for copies. Also
reprinted in Edie, Current Social and Industrial Forces, pages 346-381.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

17. Closed shop versus open shop.

18. Should trade unions be obliged to incorporate?

19. To what extent does compulsory arbitration constitute an unwarranted interference in private
business?

20. The shortening of the working day.

21. Effect of the World War upon relations between labor and capital.

CHAPTER XIX

HEALTH IN INDUSTRY

197. INDUSTRY AND HEALTH.--Wherever the Industrial Revolution has progressed beyond the initial
stages, there has been an enormous increase in wealth and prosperity. At the same time, serious
evils have accompanied the transition from a relatively simple agricultural stage to a stage
dominated by the factory system. The tendency toward overcrowding in rapidly growing cities,
the difficulties of maintaining a normal family life where mother or children are employed
in factories, and the danger of overstrain, accident and disease in industrial pursuits, all
these factors render very important the problem of health in industry.

Though health in industry is only one phase of the general problem of health, it will be impossible
here to exhaust even that one phase. We shall accordingly confine ourselves to the discussion
of three questions: first, child labor; second, the employment of women in industrial pursuits;
and third, the insurance of our industrial population against accident, sickness, old age and
unemployment.

198. CHILD LABOR: EXTENT AND CAUSES.--There are in this country more than two million children
between the ages of ten and fifteen, engaged in gainful occupations. In all sections of the
country large numbers of children are found in agriculture, this industry generally being beyond
the scope of child labor laws. The employment of children in factories, mines, quarries, mills,
and shops, on the other hand, is now considerably restricted by law. This is true of all parts
of the country. However, child labor is still of wide extent in the United States, due to the
large number of children found in agriculture, domestic service, street trades, stores, messenger
service, and tenement homework.

Of the immediate causes of child labor one of the most important is the poverty of the parents.
Where the parents are themselves day laborers, it is often considered necessary or desirable
to increase the family earnings by putting the children to work.

From the standpoint of the employer child labor is rendered possible and even desirable by
the development of types of work easily performed by small children. In many cases the tendency
of parents to put young children to work is encouraged by the lax administration of school
attendance laws. This tendency has also been encouraged by the indifference of the public to
the evil effects of child labor.

199. EFFECTS OF CHILD LABOR.--Students of the problem of child labor unanimously condemn the
practice of habitually employing young children outside the home. Where poorly paid children
compete with men and women, they serve either to displace adults, or, by competition, to lower
the wages of adults.

The effects upon the children themselves are injurious. Stunted, crippled, and diseased bodies
are the result of steady work at too tender an age. Schooling is interrupted, so that child
workers generally develop into illiterate and inefficient adults. When children are forced
into gainful occupations at an early age, the family life is disrupted, and proper home training
is difficult, if not impossible. Still another factor is the greater temptation to vice and
crime confronting the child outside the home.

200. CHILD LABOR LAWS.--Since 1870 the growing acuteness of the child labor problem, together
with an aroused public opinion, has served to increase the number of laws restricting child
labor. At the present time, forty-five states forbid the employment in certain industries of
children under fourteen years of age.

A Federal child labor law was passed in 1916, but two years later the measure was declared
unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. [Footnote: For an explanation of this point, see Section
214 of this chapter.] In 1919 a new Federal law was enacted. In order to avoid the charge of
unconstitutionality, this measure attacks child labor indirectly. The law levies an excise
tax of ten per cent on the entire net profits received from the sale of all the products of
any mine, quarry, mill, cannery, workshop, factory, or manufacturing establishment, which employs
children contrary to certain age and hour specifications. The effect of this ten per cent tax
is so to reduce the profits of the employers affected, as virtually to prohibit child labor.
By this means the act prohibits child labor in several important groups of industrial establishments.

The difficulty with the law is that it touches only about fifteen per cent of our two million
child workers. It does not affect, for example, the large number of children employed in agriculture,
domestic service, street trades, stores and restaurants, messenger service, and tenement homework.

201. MINIMUM PROVISIONS OF A GOOD CHILD LABOR LAW.--The passage of more comprehensive child
labor laws is being advocated by a number of social agencies, notably by the National Child
Labor Committee. The minimum provisions of a good child labor law have been set forth by the
committee somewhat as follows:

As a general proposition, no child should be regularly employed in a gainful occupation who
is under sixteen years of age. There should be an even higher age limit for child workers in
quarries, mines, and other dangerous places. Children should not work more than eight hours
a day. Nor should they be allowed to engage in night work until they have reached the age of,
say, twenty years. All child applicants for industrial positions should first be required to
pass educational tests and a physical examination. A good child labor law should provide for
a corps of factory inspectors, as well as for other means of securing the efficient administration
of the law. Lastly, it is important that there be close coöperation between employers and the
school authorities in the matter of child labor.

202. INCREASED NUMBER OF WOMEN IN INDUSTRY.--There have always been women in industry, but
of recent years the proportion of women so engaged has increased so rapidly as to create a
serious social problem. From needlework, domestic service, and teaching, women have spread
rapidly into trade, commerce, and the professions. A few years ago transportation and police
work were monopolized by men, but to-day women are entering these fields rapidly. Though they
outnumber men only in domestic and personal service, women are numerous in practically every
important calling except plumbing and street cleaning. Altogether more than 8,000,000 women
are engaged in gainful occupations in the United States.

203. WHY WOMEN RECEIVE LOWER WAGES THAN MEN.--Women generally receive lower wages than men.
One reason for this is the physical weakness of women, which renders them less desirable in
many types of work. Social conventions, home attachments, and, often, the lack of the venturesome
spirit, combine to keep women from moving about in search of improved working conditions to
the same extent as men. The expectation of marriage causes many young women to neglect to increase
their efficiency, and this at least prevents their wages from increasing as rapidly as those
of young men who undergo consistent training. The trade union is still little developed among
women workers, a factor which often prevents higher wages from being secured. Low wages are
often traceable to the fact that there is an over supply of girls and women in the labor market.
Large numbers of girls and women are partially supported at home, and are able and willing
to work for "pin-money" only. Many employers take advantage of this fact to offer very low wages.

204. LEGISLATION REGULATING THE LABOR OF WOMEN.--Although it would seem desirable to keep young
children out of industry altogether, there is a general agreement among students of the problem
that the labor of women ought to be further regulated rather than actually prohibited. A number
of states have already enacted laws designed to safeguard women in industry. In some states
the number of working hours for women has been cut from eleven to nine, while in other states
the maximum number of hours during which women may work is eight. Some states prohibit night
work for women in industrial establishments. The great majority of the states now provide for
proper rest periods, guarded machinery, the ventilation of workrooms, and, where practicable,
seats for women employees. To the extent that women actually do the same amount and quality
of work as men, there is a growing feeling that men and women ought to receive equal pay.

205. THE MINIMUM WAGE.--A minimum wage law is one which specifies that in certain occupations
laborers may not be paid less than a stipulated wage. The aim of the minimum wage is to protect
the laborer against employment which, under freely competitive conditions, does not pay wages
high enough to guarantee a decent living.

The first minimum wage law in the United States was passed by Massachusetts in 1912. The movement
grew rapidly, and by 1921 more than a dozen additional states had adopted minimum wage laws.
In some states the law applies only to specified industries; in others it covers all occupations.
In some states the law covers only the employment of women, but in most cases the principle
of the minimum wage applies to women and minors under eighteen, or even twenty-one years of
age. In some foreign countries the minimum wage is also extended to the labor of men, but in
the United States men are everywhere exempted from the operation of such laws.

206. ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF THE MINIMUM WAGE.--The champions of the principle of the minimum
wage advance a number of arguments in its favor. It is contended that no industry is socially
desirable if it cannot pay a living wage, for when wages fall below a certain minimum, poverty,
ill-health, and vice are natural results. When laborers are themselves unable to improve their
economic position, it is said, it becomes the duty of the state to guarantee them a living
wage. Another argument in favor of the minimum wage is that it not only eliminates considerable
poverty, but it makes possible a healthier and more contented labor force. It is claimed that
strikes and social unrest are partially eliminated by the minimum wage.

207. ARGUMENTS AGAINST THE MINIMUM WAGE.--In spite of the rapid spread of minimum wage legislation
in this country, the principle has met with considerable opposition. It is claimed by some
that where poverty is due to bad personal habits, the mere payment of a higher wage will not
abolish poverty. It is also urged that because of price changes, and because of differing concepts
of a standard of living, it is difficult to determine what is really a living wage. Some employers
maintain that the minimum wage is contrary to economic law, since it forces the payment of
a wage which the laborer often does not earn. The compulsory nature of the minimum wage is
also opposed on the grounds that it constitutes an undue interference with individual rights.
[Footnote: Formerly an important argument against the minimum wage was this: There are large
numbers of people who cannot earn the minimum wage, and because employers will tend not to
employ them, such persons will have to be supported by charity. The force of this argument
is reduced, however, by the fact that most minimum wage laws now make special provision for
the part-time employment of such persons.]

208. THE RISKS OF INDUSTRY.--In spite of the fact that most States now have detailed laws providing
for the guarding of machinery and the supervision of dangerous occupations, a half million
persons are injured or killed annually in industrial employments in the United States. A considerable
amount of ill-health is traceable to working with drugs and acids. Continued work in dusty
mills and shops, as well as long exposure to the excessively dry or excessively moist atmosphere
required by certain manufacturing processes, also give rise to "occupational" diseases. Old
age frequently brings poverty and distress, in spite of a life of hard work. Lastly, the laborer
runs the risk of unemployment.

209. THE PRINCIPLE OF SOCIAL INSURANCE.--As a general rule, laborers do not voluntarily insure
themselves against illness, unemployment, accident, or old age. This is partly because they
lack the necessary funds, and partly because they lack the foresight necessary for such action.
If, therefore, the risks of industry are adequately to be insured against, the initiative must
be taken by some one other than the laborer. As a result of this situation, there has developed
the principle of social insurance. Social insurance, as distinguished from insurance by trade
unions or private agencies, is compulsory, and is administered, or at least supervised, by
the state or Federal authorities.

From the standpoint of the community, social insurance may be justified on four grounds. First,
the risks of industry are largely beyond the control of the individual workman, and hence he
ought not to be held wholly responsible for the penalties which industry may inflict upon him.
Second, the community gets the benefit of the laborer's efforts, and thus ought to feel morally
obligated to safeguard his employment. Third, an injury to the laborer restricts the productivity
of the community by crippling or removing one of its productive agents. Fourth, compulsory
insurance is a social necessity, for where nothing has been laid aside for a rainy day, the
interruption of earnings subjects the laborer and his family to hardship and disaster. Wisely
administered social insurance prevents a great deal of poverty and distress which would otherwise
constitute an added burden upon charitable organizations.

210. INSURANCE AGAINST ACCIDENT.--Accident insurance has been a feature of social insurance
programs in Germany, France, and Great Britain for almost a half century, but in this country
it was not until 1910 that compulsory insurance against industrial accidents began to be effective.
Since 1910, however, the movement has grown rapidly, and at the present time the majority of
the states provide for compensation to workmen for accidents sustained in connection with their
work. Formerly our courts quite generally held that when a workman could be shown to have suffered
an accident because of "personal negligence," the injured person was not entitled to compensation.
Under the accident insurance laws of most states it is now held, however, that the personal
negligence of the injured workman does not forfeit his right to receive compensation.

In most states the cost of accident insurance is borne primarily by the employer.

211. INSURANCE AGAINST SICKNESS. [Footnote: Sometimes known as health insurance.]--Compulsory
sickness insurance has been highly developed in several European countries, but so far we have
left insurance of this type to private effort. The question is attracting considerable attention
in this country, however, and it is believed that this form of social insurance will soon be
provided for by state law. In 1914 the American Association for Labor Legislation outlined
a model sickness insurance law. Such a law would provide a sickness benefit for a number of
weeks, arrange for medical care, and, in case of death, pay a funeral benefit. The cost of
such insurance would be divided equally between workmen and employer, while the state would
bear the cost of administering the law. This cost would be considerable, because illness may
be feigned, and hence there would have to be more careful supervision than in the case of accident
insurance.

212. INSURANCE AGAINST OLD AGE.--Compulsory insurance against old age is an important feature
of social insurance systems in European countries, but it is very little known in the United
States. We are familiar with the Federal pensioning of military veterans, and with local pensions
for firemen and policemen, as well as with state and local pensions for teachers. Such insurance
does not, however, touch the question of aged employees in industrial pursuits. Trade unions
sometimes provide a measure of old age insurance for their members, but the proportion of workmen
affected by this practice is very small.

In 1920, a beginning toward compulsory old age insurance was made, when a Federal law provided
for compulsory old age insurance for the civil service employees of the Federal government.
The question of compulsory old age insurance is also being agitated in a number of states.

213. SHOULD SOCIAL INSURANCE EXTEND TO UNEMPLOYMENT?--It is contended by many that to insure
workmen against the loss of their jobs would encourage shiftlessness, and that for this reason
the principle of social insurance ought not to apply to unemployment.

It is obvious that a considerable share of unemployment is traceable to personal negligence,
and it is probably true that insurance against unemployment would discourage thrift and foresight
on the part of many workmen. On the other hand, it has been shown statistically that a large
share of unemployment is due to crop failures, market fluctuations, and other conditions beyond
the control of the workmen. In so far as this is true, there would be a great deal of unemployment
whether it were insured against or not. Because, therefore, some unemployment is inevitable,
and because unemployment is in many cases beyond the control of the individual, it becomes
necessary, or at least desirable, for the state to insure workmen against this unavoidable risk.

Insurance against unemployment has never been tried out in this country, but it is likely that
we shall some day follow the example of the leading European countries, and include this type
of protection in our general program of social insurance.

214. OBSTACLES TO LABOR LEGISLATION.--Labor legislation of the type discussed in this chapter
is making rapid headway in the United States. Nevertheless, it should be noted that in this
field we are behind the more advanced countries of western Europe. The chief explanation of
this relative backwardness is that the extension of labor legislation in this country has met
with considerable opposition. The reasons for this opposition may be summed up as follows:

First, the spirit of individualism is so strong in this country as effectively to check legislation
which appears paternalistic. The weak position of women and children in industry has somewhat
lessened the force of this argument in the case of laws designed to safeguard these two groups,
but labor legislation in behalf of men is still regarded suspiciously in many quarters.

Second, it is difficult to secure uniform laws among the several states. Labor legislation
in this country has been primarily a state concern, but the attitude of the various states
toward social insurance, the minimum wage, and other types of labor legislation, has been so
divergent that the resulting laws have often been conflicting. In many cases states fear to
enact laws which they believe will hamper local employers and encourage the migration of capital
to states which are more lenient in this regard.

Third, an important obstacle to labor legislation in the United States has been the difficulty
of enacting laws which the courts will not declare unconstitutional. The constitutional provision
[Footnote: See the fifth amendment to the Federal Constitution, Appendix.] that no one shall
be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law has often been interpreted
by the courts in such a way as to nullify laws designed to safeguard the interests of the working
classes. For example, a law restricting the employment of women might be declared unconstitutional
on the grounds that it interferes with the "liberty" of women to work as many hours, and for
as small a wage, as they choose.

Within the last decade, however, the obstacle of constitutionality appears to have declined
in importance. Our Supreme Courts often reverse their own decisions, as well as negative the
decisions of the lower courts, and it is therefore difficult to ascertain what is truly the
trend of judicial decision. Nevertheless, many authorities believe that we are on the verge
of an era in which the courts will weigh labor legislation primarily in the light of its social
benefit, and only secondarily with respect to how it squares with the technicalities of the
Constitution.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What three questions are discussed in this chapter?

2. What is the extent of child labor in the United States?

3. What are some of the causes of child labor?

4. What are the chief results of child labor?

5. Discuss Federal legislation with respect to child labor.

6. Outline the minimum provisions of a good child labor law.

7. Why do women generally get lower wages than men?

8. What is meant by the minimum wage?

9. What are the chief arguments in favor of the minimum wage?

10. Give the chief arguments against it.

11. What is meant by social insurance?

12. Discuss the four forms of social insurance. Which have been applied in this country?

13. What are the three great obstacles to labor legislation in this country? Which of these
appears to you to be the most important? Which appears to you to be the easiest to overcome?
Or all of the following:

2. Burch and Patterson, American Social Problems, chapter xiv.

3. Ely, Outlines of Economics, chapter xxviii.

4. Fetter, Modern Economic Problems, chapter xxiii.

5. Taussig, Principles of Economics, Vol. ii, chapter viii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Why is child labor not always the cheapest labor? (Burch and Patterson, page 172.)

2. What is the sweat shop system? (Burch and Patterson, page 174.)

3. What are the chief occupations in which women are found? (Burch and Patterson, page 175.)

4. What is meant by the "dangerous trades"? (Burch and Patterson, pages 176-177.)

5. What is the extent of railway accidents in this country? (Burch and Patterson, pages 178-179.)

6. What are the main causes of irregular earnings? (Taussig, page 323.)

7. What form of social insurance was first developed in this country? (Ely, page 588.)

8. Outline the British Workmen's Compensation Act. (Taussig, page 325.)

9. What are the main features of the German system of old age insurance? (Taussig, page 331.)

10. What difficulties are encountered in insuring workmen against unemployment? (Taussig, pages
337-340.)

11. What is the "contributory principle" in social insurance? (Fetter, pages 363-364.)

12. What are the chief objections to social insurance? (Ely, pages 593-594.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

1. The extent of child labor in your state.

2. Control of child labor by the laws of your state.

3. The difficulties of enacting child labor legislation to cover the employment of children
in agriculture. Interview some one familiar with farming conditions for data on this topic.

4. Relation of child labor to the administration of the school attendance laws in your community.

5. Extent to which women are employed in industrial establishments in your community or state.

6. Interview a friendly employer on the relative desirability of men and women employees.

7. The status of the minimum wage in your state.

8. Social insurance in your state.

9. Interview the officials of a trade union concerning the payment of sickness insurance by
the union.

10. The emergency treatment of injured workmen in a near-by mill or factory. Compare this treatment
with the treatment outlined in the references which are appended to Topic 21.

II.

11. Causes of child labor. (Mangold, Problems of Child Welfare, part iv, chapter i.)

12. Women in industry. (Select some phase of this problem for report. Consult Butler, Women
and the Trades; MacLean, Women Workers and Society; Kelley, Some Ethical Gains through Legislation;
Annals, vol. lxv; Abbot, Women in Industry, and similar works.)

14. Relation of home conditions to industrial efficiency. (Annals, vol. lxv, pages 277-288.)

15. Industrial efficiency of women compared with that of men. (Lee, The Human Machine and Industrial
Efficiency, chapter x.)

16. Housing the unskilled worker. (Wood, The Housing of the Unskilled Wage-earner.)

17. Work of the National Housing Association. (Write to the association office in Washington,
D. C., for descriptive literature.)

18. Summary of Irving Fisher's report on national vitality. (Bulletin of the Committee of One
Hundred on National Health, etc., prepared for the National Conservation Commission, by Irving
Fisher, Washington, 1909.)

19. Preventable diseases. (Hutchinson, Preventable Diseases.)

20. Occupational diseases. (Oliver, Diseases of Occupation.)

21. How to act in case of an accident. (Gulick, Emergencies; Tolman, Hygiene for the Worker,
chapter xvi.)

22. The right to leisure time. (Kelley, Some Ethical Gains through Legislation, chapters in
and iv.)

23. Legal status of workmen's compensation. (Annals, vol. xxxviii, No. i, pages 117-168.)

24. Health insurance. (Rubinow, Standards of Health Insurance, chapters iii and iv.)

25. The police power. (Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter xii.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

26. The minimum wage for men.

27. Should old age and sickness insurance be made a feature of the social insurance program
of your state?

28. Should pensions be paid out of public funds to mothers having dependent children?

29. Should labor legislation be enacted primarily by the Federal or by the state governments?

CHAPTER XX

IMMIGRATION AND ASSIMILATION

215. RACIAL ELEMENTS IN OUR POPULATION.--The Federal census of 1920 gave the population of
continental United States as 105,710,620. Approximately nine tenths of this population is white,
while about one tenth is negro. Those who are neither white nor negro, namely, American Indians
and Asiatics, together constitute less than one half of one per cent of the population.

The great majority of our people are either European immigrants, or the descendants of European
immigrants who came to this country within the last century and a half. With reference to European
immigration we distinguish three groups: the foreign-born, the native-born children of the
foreign-born, and natives. Natives include those whose ancestors have been in this country
two or more generations. On the basis of this classification, about one seventh of our population
is foreign-born while over one third is either foreign-born or the native-born children of
foreign-born parents.

The ease with which immigrants have adapted themselves to American life prevents any accurate
classification of nationalities in our population, but probably Great Britain and Ireland,
Germany, Italy, Russia, (including Poland), and Austria-Hungary have, in the order named, contributed
the largest numbers.

216. THE "OLD" IMMIGRATION.--European immigration to the United States may be divided into
two groups, the "old" and the "new." The "old" immigration extended from the beginning of our
national history to about the year 1880, and was derived chiefly from Great Britain and Ireland,
Germany, and the Scandinavian countries. Between 1820 (the first year for which we have accurate
records) and 1880, about nine tenths of our immigrants came from these countries.

The striking features of the "old" immigration should be noted. In comparison with present-day
immigration, it was relatively small in volume. In view of the abundance here of free land,
and our consequent need for pioneers, the small volume of immigration prevented the rise of
any serious problem. Moreover, the "old" immigration was largely made up of individuals who
were similar to the original American colonists in political ideals, social training, and economic
background. The "old" immigration therefore merged with the native stock fairly easily and rapidly.

217. THE "OLD" GIVES WAY TO THE "NEW" IMMIGRATION.--In the period centering about the year
1880 there was a distinct shift in the immigration movement. Whereas before 1880 most of our
immigrants had been Anglo-Saxons and Teutons from northern Europe, after 1880 the majority
of our immigrants were members of the Mediterranean and Slavic races from southern and southeastern
Europe. Before 1880 about nine tenths of the aliens coming to our shores were from northern
Europe and only one tenth were from southern and southeastern Europe. In the period since 1880,
less than one fourth of our immigrants have come from northern Europe, while more than three
fourths have been derived from southern and southeastern Europe. The bulk of this new immigration
has come from Russia, Poland, Austria-Hungary, Greece, Turkey, Italy, and the Balkan countries.

218. INCREASING VOLUME OF IMMIGRATION.--Since it is in connection with the "new" immigration
that the modern immigration problem arises, it will be profitable to inquire more fully into
the character of the movement after about 1880.

Not only has the character of immigration changed since the eighties, but the volume of immigration
has steadily increased. Of approximately 35,000,000 immigrants who have come to our shores
since 1800, more than half have come within the last thirty-five years. The peak of immigration
was reached in the decade preceding the World War, when as many as a million and a quarter
of immigrants landed in this country in a single year. This heavy flow was interrupted by the
World War, but after the signing of the armistice in the fall of 1918, a heavy immigration
again set in. [Footnote: Various classes of immigrants are excluded from the United States
by the immigration laws summarized in section 223 of this chapter. In addition to these laws,
which may be said to constitute the basis of our permanent immigration policy, President Harding
signed, in May, 1921, a bill relative to the temporary exclusion of aliens who would ordinarily
be admissible. This temporary exclusion act provided that between July 1, 1921, and June 30,
1922, the number of immigrants entering the United States from any other country might not
exceed three per cent of the former immigrants from that country who were within the bounds
of the United States at the time of the last census.]

219. DISTRIBUTION OF THE "NEW" IMMIGRATION.--One of the most significant facts in connection
with the immigration problem is that our immigrant population is unequally distributed. About
two thirds of the immigrants in this country are in the North Atlantic division; about a quarter
of them are located in the North Central division; while less than one tenth are located in
the western and southern sections of the country combined. Three fourths of our foreign-born
live in the cities of the North Atlantic and North Central divisions. Forty per cent of the
present population of New York City is foreign born, while in Boston and Chicago more than
a third of the population is foreign born. In the smaller manufacturing cities of the North
Atlantic division it often happens that from half to four fifths of the population is foreign born.

220. ECONOMIC EFFECTS OF IMMIGRATION.--In the earlier part of our national history free land
was abundant and immigration relatively small in volume; after the eighties free land disappeared
and immigration increased rapidly. It was toward the end of the nineteenth century, therefore,
that the economic aspect of the immigration problem became acute. In the last decades of that
century manufacturing developed rapidly, and American cities became important centers of population.
Large numbers of immigrants were attracted by the opportunities for employment in urban centers.
An addition to this factor, immigrants continued to concentrate in the cities, partly because
of the spirit of clannishness, partly because of the disappearance of free land, and partly
because the development of agricultural machinery reduced the demand for agricultural laborers.
Still another influence was the fact that the unfamiliar American farm was less attractive
to the southern European immigrant than was the opportunity of performing unskilled labor in
the city. To-day four fifths of our immigrants are unskilled laborers who are employed chiefly
in mining, construction work, transportation, and domestic service.

From the economic standpoint, the chief objection to unrestricted immigration is that it prevents
the wages of American workmen from rising as rapidly as would otherwise be the case. The newly
arrived immigrant usually has a lower standard of living than has the native American; that
is to say, the immigrant is content with less in the way of food, clothing, house room and
education than is the native. When newly arrived immigrants come into competition with native
workmen, the immigrant generally offers to work for a lower wage than the native. But though
relatively low, this wage is so much higher than the newly arrived immigrant has been used
to, that he feels justified in marrying early and rearing a large family. This adds to the
supply of unskilled labor.

In order to compete with the recent immigrant, the native must accept relatively low wages.
In order to get along on these relatively low wages, the native must either lower his standard
of living or postpone marriage. Sometimes he has lowered his standard of living; sometimes
he has preferred to retain his relatively high standard of living, and to get along on the
decreased wage either by postponing marriage, or by permanently abandoning his plans for a
normal family life. It is contended, therefore, that an oversupply of unskilled immigrant labor
in this country has had at least two injurious results. First, it has kept the standard of
living of American workmen from rising as rapidly as would otherwise have been possible. Second,
it has caused the birth rate to decline among the native groups.

221. SOCIAL EFFECTS OF IMMIGRATION.--The tendency of immigrants to concentrate in American
cities gives rise to a number of serious social problems. Urban congestion is unqualifiedly
bad. It is difficult or impossible for immigrants living in crowded quarters to maintain proper
health standards. Nor does overcrowding conduce to healthy morals. The foreign born do not
show an unusual tendency toward crime, which is remarkable when we consider the immigrant's
ignorance of our laws, as well as the ease with which unscrupulous persons exploit him. On
the other hand, the children of the foreign born often show a strong tendency toward crime
and vice, a fact which is attributed to the bad social conditions surrounding their homes.
The percentage of dependency among immigrants is rather high. This is not surprising, however,
for many immigrants must go through an adjustment period in which lack of financial reserves
is likely to force them to call upon charitable agencies for temporary aid.

222. DIFFICULTY OF ASSIMILATING THE "NEW" IMMIGRATION.--Those who made up the "old" immigration
assimilated rapidly: they were relatively like the native stock in manners and customs, the
volume of immigration was relatively small, and the newcomers spread out into frontier communities
where habitual contact with natives was unavoidable.

Those who make up the "new" immigration have assimilated less rapidly: they are relatively
unlike the native stock in language, race, and customs; the volume of immigration is very great;
and rather than being uniformly distributed, the "new" immigrants tend to concentrate in cities
where they are often little subject to contact with natives. Members of foreign "colonies"
not only tend to remain ignorant of American life, but unfamiliarity with self-government encourages
their exploitation by political "bosses." It is admitted by the most careful students that
the lack of proper civic ideals among unassimilated foreigners in American cities is a large
element in the corruption of our municipal governments.

223. RESTRICTIVE LEGISLATION.--Exclusive control of immigration is vested in the Federal government.
During the Civil War Congress actually encouraged immigration, but since 1882 our policy has
been one of restriction. In the latter year the first general immigration act was passed, though
considerable legislation on the subject was already on the statute books. Supplementary laws
were enacted from time to time, the most important piece of legislation since 1900 being the
Immigration Act of 1917. A brief summary of this and previous acts will serve to show the nature
and extent of Federal control over immigration.

The chief aim of our immigration laws has been so to restrict immigration as to protect us
against undesirable persons. In the interest of health, persons afflicted with contagious diseases,
such as tuberculosis, and trachoma,--a virulent eye disease,--are excluded. Certain persons
whose character is clearly immoral are excluded. Polygamists are excluded. The Act of 1917
excludes anarchists, and likewise bars from our shores all criminals, except those who have
committed political offenses not recognized by the United States. In order to reduce unnecessary
tax burdens, as well as to safeguard community health, we also exclude insane persons, idiots,
epileptics, beggars, and other persons likely to become public charges. Contract laborers are
specifically excluded, the Act of 1917 using the term "contract labor" to include anyone "induced,
assisted, encouraged, or solicited" to come to this country "by any kind of promise or agreement,
express or implied, true or false, to find employment." Persons over sixteen years of age are
excluded from the United States if they cannot read English or some other language. [Footnote:
Certain near relatives of admissible aliens, purely political offenders, and persons seeking
refuge from religious persecution, are exempted from this literacy test, however.]

The bars against Asiatics call for a special word.

224. ASIATIC IMMIGRATION.--By Asiatic immigration is here meant Chinese and Japanese immigration,
immigrants from other parts of Asia being relatively unimportant.

The discovery of gold in California in 1849 caused a large number of Chinese coolies to migrate
to this country. This immigration grew steadily until 1882, in which year the entrance of Chinese
laborers into the United States was forbidden. Our exclusion policy has been repeatedly reaffirmed,
as the result of which there are to-day fewer than 70,000 Chinese in this country. The majority
of these are found on the Pacific Coast, engaged as small tradesmen, truck farmers, or personal
servants.

Japanese immigration to this country did not become noticeable until about 1900. After that
date, however, the volume of Japanese immigration so alarmed the Pacific Coast states that
a Japanese exclusion policy was formulated as early as 1907. At present the only classes of
Japanese that are allowed to reside in this country permanently are "former residents," "parents,
wives or children of residents," or "settled agriculturists," the latter being Japanese already
in possession of land here. There are at present fewer than 120,000 Japanese in this country.
Most of them are found on the Pacific Coast, engaged in occupations similar to those of the
Chinese in the same area. [Footnote: Chinese and Japanese students desiring to study in this
country are allowed to enter the United States by special arrangement.]

Those most familiar with the situation are practically unanimous in declaring for the continued
exclusion of Chinese and Japanese immigrants. In the case of both races, the standard of living
is so much lower than that of native Americans that open competition between the newly arrived
Asiatic and the native American would result in the latter being driven from the labor market.
The most important social reason for the exclusion of these two races is that the differences
of race and religion existing between Asiatics and native Americans render assimilation of
the Chinese and Japanese extremely difficult, if not impossible.

225. THE FUTURE OF IMMIGRATION.--A half century ago the belief was current that an immigration
policy was unnecessary, since the sources of immigration would eventually dry up. The sources
of the "old" immigration have dried up somewhat, but new sources have been opened up in southern
and southeastern Europe. Immigration is a pressing social problem, and it is likely that it
will be even more pressing in the future. The American frontier has disappeared and our boundaries
are fixed. Urbanization is proceeding at a rapid rate, industry is becoming more complex, public
opinion is more insistent that such social problems as immigration shall be solved.

226. WHAT SHALL BE OUR ATTITUDE TOWARD IMMIGRATION?--There is no good reason why immigration
should be absolutely prohibited. On the other hand, the most public-spirited students of the
question believe that the careful restriction of immigration is imperative. Clearly, it is
our duty to accept only such immigrants as show promise of becoming capable and efficient American
citizens. It is also clearly our duty to accept even this type of immigrant only in such numbers
as we can conveniently assimilate. We must not be selfish with America, but we should not be
misled by the statement that anyone in Europe has a "right" to make his home in this country.
Those who come to this country are personally benefited, no doubt, but unrestricted immigration
may lower the tone of American life and permanently injure our social and political institutions.
America is for the present generation, but is also for posterity. The millions of unborn have
as much right to be considered as have the millions now clamoring at our gates. For this reason,
the "right" of an individual to migrate to America must be interpreted in the light of what
he will mean to the future of this country.

227. HELPING THE IMMIGRANT IN HIS NEW HOME.--The readjustment, assimilation, or "Americanization"
of the immigrant is a problem of vital importance. The term "Americanization" is variously
interpreted, and must be used with care. Americanization ought not to force the immigrant to
give up his native tongue, or his old-country customs. It ought to be a mutually helpful process,
whereby native Americans would help the immigrant in adjusting himself to his new environment,
while, in turn, the immigrant would be permitted and encouraged to make his own contribution
to American life. Since the immigrant has little or no opportunity to contribute to American
life until he has become adjusted to his new home, it follows that the most fundamental part
of an Americanization program is one of helping the immigrant solve his problems.

In carrying out this part of the Americanization program it is essential that the newly arrived
alien be protected against unscrupulous persons who seek to exploit him. Adequate laws ought
to be supplemented by the work of immigrant aid societies and other private organizations whose
duty it would be to protect immigrants against dishonest boarding houses, swindlers, unreliable
banks, and other forms of imposition. Friendly help of this type will do much toward encouraging
and inspiring the alien in his new life.

Improvement in the immigrant's economic status is an important part of an Americanization program.
Not only does the undue concentration of immigrants in cities spell ill-health and a great
temptation to crime and vice, but immigrant laborers sometimes secure lower wages in cities
than they would receive in the more sparsely settled parts of the country. Of considerable
interest, therefore, is the recent development of plans for redistributing immigrants into
the rural and sparsely populated districts. [Footnote: The movement to transfer immigrants
to the rural districts is not unqualifiedly good; indeed, it may do more harm than good. For
the dangers of this movement, see Chapter XXV.] Since 1907 the Division of Information in the
Bureau of Labor Statistics has done valuable work in finding employment for immigrants in rural
districts. Much remains to be done, however.

The school, of course, is an important agent of Americanization. Whether or not the immigrant
retains his old-country language, he ought to learn to speak, read and write English. The school
is likewise an important means of instructing the newcomers and their children in the essentials
of American history and government. Where the school is being used as a real community center,
the institution becomes truly a method of introducing the foreign-born to the everyday activities
of American life. The increasing emphasis upon the racial traits of different immigrant groups,
with a view to encouraging unique contributions to the culture of the community, deserves special
notice.

Americanization measures of the type touched upon in this section help to build the nation
on a sound foundation of friendly and intelligent coöperation.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What proportion of our population is foreign-born? What proportion is native?

2. Distinguish between the "old" and the "new" immigration.

3. Describe the increasing volume of immigration.

4. Outline the distribution of immigrants in this country.

5. What are the economic effects of immigration?

6. Explain the relation of immigration to the wages and standard of living of American workmen.

7. What are the social effects of immigration?

8. What factors impede the assimilation of the "new" immigrants?

9. What classes of aliens are excluded from this country? What is "contract labor"?

10. What is the nature of Asiatic immigration? Why are Asiatics excluded?

11. Does it seem likely that the immigration problem will be more or less acute in the future? Why?

12. What should be our attitude toward immigration?

13. What is the chief aim of a good Americanization program?

Or all of the following:

2. Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, vol. xciii, pages 134-138,
156-161.

3. Burch and Patterson, American Social Problems, chapters ix and x.

4. Ellwood, Sociology and Modern Social Problems, chapter x.

5. Roberts, The Problem of Americanization, chapters iii and iv.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Define a foreigner. (Annals, page 135.)

2. What is Professor Walker's theory of immigration? (Burch and Patterson, pages 95-96.)

3. Compare the "old" and the "new" immigration in 1882. (Ellwood, page 217.)

4. Compare the "old" and the "new" immigration in 1907. (Ellwood, page 218.)

5. What are the three most important groups of immigrants at the present time? (Burch and Patterson,
pages 108-111.)

6. What is the extent of illiteracy among the immigrant population? (Burch and Patterson, pages
115-116.)

7. Discuss the occupational distribution of immigrants. (Ellwood, pages 223-224.)

8. What is the "racial" argument against unrestricted immigration? (Ellwood, pages 234-235.)

9. How can the average citizen help in the Americanization movement? (Roberts, pages 45-47.)

10. Why should the Americanization worker make himself familiar with the condition under which
the immigrant works? (Roberts, pages 48-53.)

11. What is the significance of the club life of immigrant groups? (Roberts, pages 57-61.)

12. What is the importance of the "advisory council" in Americanization work? (Roberts, pages
86-87.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

1.

2. Study your community with the aim of determining whether or not the character of its immigrant
class has changed within the last twenty- five years.

3. Classify the immigrant groups of your community on the basis of occupation. Notice in particular
the proportion of immigrants engaged in agriculture and in the trained professions.

4. Make a visit to a near-by foreign colony, and report to the class upon your observations.

5. Interview the officials of a trade union on the effect of Unrestricted immigration upon wages.

6. Draw up a workable plan for the redistribution of immigrants in your state.

7. Draw up a plan for an Americanization survey in your state. (Write to the Bureau of Education
in the U. S. Department of the Interior, for Bulletin, 1919, No. 77, on State Americanization.)

8. Race elements in the population of the American colonies. (Commons, Races and Immigrants
in America, chapter ii.)

9. History of immigration to the United States. (Any standard text on immigration.)

10. The journey to America. (Abbot, The Immigrant and the Community, chapter i; Steiner, On
the trail of the Immigrant; Antin, They Who Knock at Our Gates. See also Miss Antin's The Promised
Land.)

11. Assisted immigration. (R. Mayo Smith, Emigration and Immigration, chapter ix.)

12. Geographical distribution of immigration. (Semple, American History and its Geographic
Conditions, chapter xv.)

13. Economic aspects of immigration. (Consult any standard text on immigration.)

14. "Birds of passage." (Consult any standard text on immigration.)

15. Immigration and the trade unions. (Carlton, History and Problems of Organized Labor, chapter
xi. See also any standard text on immigration.)

16. Social aspects of immigration. (Consult any standard text on immigration.)

17. Political aspects of immigration. (Consult any standard text on immigration.)

18. Chinese immigration. (Coolidge, Chinese Immigration; Hall, Immigration, chapter xv; Jenks
and Lauck, The Immigration Problem, pages 231-237; Annals, vol. xciii, pages 7-13; Gulick,
American Democracy and Asiatic Citizenship.)

19. Japanese immigration. (Annals, vol. xciii, part i; Jenks and Lauck, The Immigration Problem,
pages 241-252; Steiner, The Japanese Invasion; Gulick, American Democracy and Asiatic Citizenship.)

20. Americanization. (Annals, vol. xciii, part in; Woods, Americans in Process; Steiner, From
Alien to Citizen; Bogardus, Essentials of Americanization; Roberts, The Problem of Americanization)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

21. Is assisted immigration an evil?

22. Can immigrants be redistributed effectively by governmental agencies?

23. Should we retain the literacy test as part of our immigration policy?

24. At the present time many aliens journey across the Atlantic only to find that, for various
reasons, they cannot be admitted to this country. How might the resulting disappointment and
loss of time and money be avoided?

CHAPTER XXI

CRIME AND CORRECTION

228. THE NATURE OF CRIME.--A crime is an act which is punishable by law because it is considered
injurious to the community. If the average man were a hermit, living entirely alone, his actions
would affect only himself, and he would be subjected to little or no control by any community.
But the average man is a member of a highly civilized community, and what he does, or what
he fails to do, often profoundly affects other individuals. Members of the community therefore
agree upon standards of conduct, to which individuals must conform. [Footnote: Where democracy
does not exist, or is only partially developed, laws may be imposed upon the group from without.
In such a country as the United States, however, legal standards of conduct are preeminently
the result of mutual agreements, freely entered into.] It is the failure to conform to these
standards which constitutes a crime, and which entails punishment by law.

What constitutes a crime depends, of course, upon the level of civilization reached by a community,
and upon the interpretation which it places upon right conduct. A deed considered heroic in
one age may be considered a crime in a later century. In the days of chivalry, for example,
it was sometimes considered heroic to rob or even kill wicked nobles in order to distribute
their wealth to the poor. At the present time, of course, such acts would constitute a crime.

229. THE CAUSES OF CRIME.--The causes of crime are so various and so complex that their accurate
classification is impossible. But some light may be thrown upon the subject if we think of
crime as influenced by economic, social, personal, and political factors.

Looking at crime from an economic point of view, it is obvious that poverty often accompanies
crime. In many cases, it is claimed, such crimes as larceny, forgery, and robbery are directly
traceable to poverty. Similarly, it is said that unemployment and industrial accidents may
incite individuals to crime. Many authorities claim, however, that while bad economic conditions
accompany and often encourage crime, such conditions alone are not a direct cause of crime.
According to this latter view, poverty, for example, will not cause a person to commit a crime
unless he is feeble-minded, depraved in morals, or otherwise defective in character.

While there is a good deal of dispute as to whether or not poverty is a direct cause of crime,
it is quite generally agreed that a bad economic situation gives rise to social conditions
which can be definitely connected with criminality. The strain and artificiality of urban life,
together with the difficulty of obtaining inexpensive and wholesome recreation in the poorer
sections of large cities, has a close connection with crime. The overcrowding so common in
tenement districts renders difficult or impossible the maintenance of high moral standards.
Where mother or children are habitually employed outside the home, the young are often denied
proper home training. Divorce, desertion, or the death of the bread-winner may break up the
family and indirectly give rise to illiteracy, vice, and crime.

Often indistinguishable from the social causes are the personal causes of crime. Where alcoholism
or vicious habits are given as the cause of crime, it may be impossible to say whether social
or personal defect is primarily to blame. Illiteracy, superficially a personal cause of crime,
may often be traced to a bad social environment. Thus an individual may be illiterate because
his parents were unwilling or unable to send him to school, or because evil companions discouraged
him from study. Such personal causes as mental defect are extremely important, indeed, many
students maintain that bad economic and social conditions are negligible causes of crime, unless
found in connection with low mentality and a depraved moral sense.

Last among the causes of crime we may consider defects in government. The laws of a community
may be so numerous, or so unwisely worded, that even responsible individuals violate them without
understanding the nature of their act. After children have committed petty offenses through
carelessness or a sense of mischief, the harshness of the police may so embitter or antagonize
the culprits that their criminal tendencies are intensified. An important cause of crime is
the custom, still common in many states, of imprisoning young and first offenders in county
jails, where they are allowed to mingle with, and learn about crime from, hardened and depraved
criminals.

230. THE REMEDIES FOR CRIME.--The causes of crime suggest the nature of its remedies. Wherever
bad economic conditions either directly or indirectly encourage crime, the remedy is, of course,
the relief or abolition of poverty. This problem has already been discussed.

Since bad social conditions are often the result of poverty, any measures which will lessen
poverty will also remove many of the so- called social causes of crime. Education, the safeguarding
of the home, constructive charity, and similar measures will also help to remove the social
causes of crime. These questions are discussed elsewhere in this text, and need not be gone
into here.

The improvement of economic and social conditions will ultimately help to eliminate bad heredity,
vice, and other of the personal causes of crime.

With the understanding, then, that the eradication of the economic, social and personal causes
of crime is discussed elsewhere, we may here confine ourselves to the question of preventing
crime by remedying the defects of government.

231. JUSTICE AS AN IDEAL.--Justice has constituted one of the basic ideals of the English-speaking
peoples since the days of Magna Charta. "To no one will we sell, and to no one will we refuse
or delay, right or justice," declared that great document. This conception was later glorified
into an ideal which, after having persisted for four centuries in England, was brought to the
New World by the English colonists. The first ten amendments to the Federal Constitution and
the Bill of Rights contained in the constitutions of the several states have been called by
Lord Bryce "the legitimate children of Magna Charta." Since the beginning of our history, thus,
a great cornerstone of American democracy has been the concept of sound and equitable law,
impartially and effectively administered.

232. THE DENIAL OF JUSTICE.--Within the last decade we have come to realize that in many of
the criminal courts of this country justice is an ideal rather than a fact. "The administration
of criminal law in all the states of this Union," said Chief Justice Taft a few years ago,
"is a disgrace to civilization."

Our criminal law is administered unjustly in two ways.

First, it sometimes allows the rich, the cunning, and the powerful offenders to escape the
penalty for their crimes. In many states the court dockets are so crowded that influential
offenders are not convicted for years, if at all. Rich prisoners may be released on bail, and
consideration of their case so delayed that the evidence disappears. Public interest is diverted
to new cases, and eventually the case may be quietly dismissed. Mr. Taft points out that we
lead the world in the number of serious crimes which go unpunished. Appeals are allowed almost
as a matter of course, so that in many serious criminal trials the original verdict is only
the beginning of the case.

Second, the law which often allows the powerful and crafty to avoid punishment may operate
to deny justice to the poor. Ignorant prisoners are in many cases so bewildered by cumbersome
and technical court procedure that they allow their cases to be disposed of without adequate
protection of their rights. Often they have no one to advise them as to their constitutional
rights and privileges. If they are not only ignorant but poor, they find themselves unable
to employ proper counsel. The Constitution indeed recognizes the right of an accused person
to have counsel, but in many states if a man is too poor or too ignorant to secure a lawyer,
he is obliged to stand trial without anyone to represent or advise him. In some states, the
court appoints a lawyer to represent such defendants. Sometimes the assigned counsel is dishonest,
and too often his primary object is to get a fee rather than to secure justice for his client.
Generally the counsel so appointed is inexperienced, and consequently no match for an able
and experienced prosecuting attorney, whose reputation may depend upon the number of convictions
that he secures.

233. THE REFORM OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE.--The reform of criminal procedure is assuming great
importance as a problem of American democracy. In many states there is a demand for a wider
and more energetic use of the Bertillon and finger print systems for the identification of
criminals. Because of the fact that in our large cities a heavy percentage of crimes are committed
without the subsequent arrest of the culprit, there is a growing demand for the improvement
of our police systems. Our criminal law needs to be simplified, so that justice may not be
delayed by technicalities, long arguments on the admissibility of evidence, and the abuse of
the right of appeal. Probably a good many of the delays and technicalities of legal procedure
could be avoided if at the trial the judge were to exercise a greater amount of control over
the proceedings.

The reform of criminal procedure has a double aim. First, it aims to reorganize and perfect
criminal procedure so that persons who have committed an offense will be apprehended and always
made to pay the penalty for their crimes. Toward the achievement of this ideal we have as yet
done very little. We are still woefully behind such a country as England, where justice is
administered with relative rapidity and sureness. Second, the reform of criminal procedure
aims to prevent the law from bearing with undue weight upon the poor and ignorant. Here we
are making greater progress. Let us notice what is being done to guarantee justice to persons
who are unable adequately to safeguard their own legal rights.

234. THE LEGAL AID SOCIETY.--A valuable institution is the legal aid society, which originated
in New York City in 1876, and which has since spread to other parts of the country. Of the
forty legal aid societies now in existence in this country, some of the better known are located
in New York City, Los Angeles, Kansas City, Boston, and Chicago. The legal aid society is generally
a private organization, created and maintained by public-spirited citizens who believe that
the poor and ignorant ought to be given legal advice free of charge, or upon the payment of
a nominal fee. These societies extend advice on both civil and criminal matters. The legal
aid society helps materially to secure justice by acquainting the individual with his legal
rights, and by acting as his counsel in court. Such organizations are especially valuable in
safeguarding the rights and privileges of immigrants in large cities. The total number of persons
helped annually by legal aid societies in the United States is over 100,000.

235. THE PUBLIC DEFENDER.--The Public Defender movement is an outgrowth of the feeling that
it is unfair for the court to assign an inexperienced and sometimes unreliable lawyer to defend
a penniless prisoner, while the case is prosecuted by a skilful district attorney. In spite
of the presumption that the prisoner is innocent until he is proved guilty, such practices
as this have operated as though the prisoner were presumed to be guilty.

In 1912 Oklahoma attempted to remedy this evil by appointing a Public Defender whose duty it
should be to aid in the defense of persons unable to employ counsel. The next year the city
of Los Angeles appointed a Public Defender who, as a sworn public counsel of experience and
integrity, makes it his business to defend poor prisoners without charge. A few years later,
Portland, Oregon, and Omaha, Nebraska, appointed similar officers. Since 1916 many other cities,
and a few states, have provided for a Public Defender of some kind, although in many cases
the provision is as yet inadequate. In all cities in which the plan has been given a trial,
the Public Defender has been instrumental in securing justice for the poor, and in raising
the moral tone of the criminal trial. By eliminating much unnecessary delay from the criminal
trial, the Public Defender has also helped to reduce court expenses.

236. CHANGING IDEALS IN PENOLOGY.--In the early stages of society the spirit of revenge seems
to have been a chief motive in the punishment of criminals, although the desire to prevent
crime must also have been a factor. With the progress of civilization revenge declined in importance,
and the punishment of the criminal seems to have been undertaken chiefly for the purpose of
preventing future crimes. Long periods of imprisonment, inhuman punishments, and the frequent
use of the death penalty were characteristic of this attitude toward crime. Curiously enough,
punishments were imposed according to the seriousness of the crime committed, without regard
to the character and needs of the criminal.

Of recent years the theory of punishment has been still further modified. In the first place,
we have begun to doubt if punishment always serves a useful purpose. Punishment does not always
deter criminals, and for this reason it is likely that the death penalty and other cruel and
inhuman methods of punishment may be dispensed with, without a resultant increase in the amount
of crime. In the second place, punishment has taken on a new aim. More and more we are coming
to believe that it should be imposed, not according to the seriousness of the crime committed,
but according as the individual criminal needs to be punished in order to effect his reformation.
This new attitude is based upon the assumption that the criminal is a person who is not adapted
to the conditions of modern life, and that the chief aim of the authorities should be so to
reform him that he will become a useful member of society. In case reform seems impossible,
the criminal should be segregated in an institution.

237. INDIVIDUALIZED TREATMENT OF OFFENDERS.--The emphasis now placed upon reformation has made
necessary a new point of view on the part of the public. We are beginning to make use of a
mass of data furnished by physiology, psychology, and sociology, and on the basis of these
data to subject prisoners to individualized treatment. Instead of herding all offenders into
a single institution such as the county jail or the penitentiary, we are beginning to inquire,
first of all, whether the prisoner might not be treated most effectively outside prison walls.
For those offenders who seem to require institutional treatment, we are developing a whole
series of institutions, designed to care for special types of abnormality. Industrial and farm
colonies for petty offenders and occasional criminals, hospitals and colonies for the mentally
defective, industrial schools and reformatories for certain types of juvenile offenders, and
penitentiaries for hardened offenders, all these are included in the correctional system of
the more progressive states.

238. SUBSTITUTES FOR IMPRISONMENT.--The belief is growing that young offenders, first offenders,
and those committing petty crimes, may often be corrected without actual imprisonment. Increasingly
common is the probation system, the essence of which is to suspend the sentence of the court
upon certain conditions. The offender is placed in charge of a court officer who will stand
in the relation of friend and guardian to him, in order to supervise his conduct and to attempt
his reformation. The success of the probation system depends largely upon the care and judgment
with which probation officers control their charges.

The use of the fine deserves mention. Generally the sentence for a petty offense is a fine,
with imprisonment as an alternative in case the prisoner is unable to pay the fine. Realizing
the corrupting influence of the jail sentence for first or slight offenders, court officials
in many cities are making the payment of the fine less difficult. In Buffalo, Indianapolis,
Chicago, and other cities it is customary in some cases to allow the payment of a fine in instalments.
This ultimately secures the fine; it has a disciplinary effect upon the offender; and it keeps
him out of jail.

239. MENTAL DEFECTIVES.--Recent progress in medicine and psychology has demonstrated that many
criminals are mentally defective. Such persons are not fully responsible for their acts, and
nothing is to be gained by committing them to prison. They need special treatment in institutions
for the insane, the feeble-minded, and the otherwise defective. In recognition of this fact,
the criminal courts of our larger cities now make extensive use of psychopathic experts. It
is the duty of these experts to determine the mental status of the prisoner, and, in case he
is found to be mentally defective, to recommend the type of treatment needed.

This is an admirable development, provided care is taken to prevent the abuse of the insanity
plea by influential criminals who, though normal mentally, seek to evade responsibility for
their deliberate crimes.

240. THE JUVENILE OFFENDER.--It has been proved that a large percentage of hardened criminals
begin their careers by some careless or mischievous act for which they were severely or unwisely
punished. Formerly, juvenile offenders were treated much as were adult criminals; more recently
we are coming to believe that children ought not to be committed to penal institutions, but
rather should be put on probation, or sent to correctional institutions of a special type.
Wherever possible, institutional treatment of every kind ought to be avoided, for the crimes
of children are clearly in a different class from those of the adult. In New York City a few
years ago, for example, half the children brought into court were there because of the lack
of recreation facilities. Petty theft and malicious mischief are often traceable to bad home
influences and the unnatural surroundings of the city. These circumstances, coupled with the
fact that immature children are often unaware of the seriousness of their lawless acts, justify
the special treatment of the juvenile offender.

241. THE JUVENILE COURT.--The juvenile court has been created to meet the special needs of
the youthful offender. An early institution of this kind was established in Chicago in 1889.
Shortly afterward Denver established a juvenile court, and since then many other cities have
taken up the idea. In some states county judges are authorized to suspend the ordinary rules
of procedure where the defendant is under eighteen years of age.

A typical juvenile court provides separate judges and separate hearings for youthful prisoners.
It avoids publicity, investigates the home life of the youthful offender, and attempts by kindly
treatment to guide him back into a wholesome, honest life. In some cases delinquent children
are sent back to school, in other cases they are placed on probation, in still other cases
special institutional treatment is provided. Every effort is made to keep juvenile offenders
from associating with habitual criminals. The aim of the court is not to punish the offender
for a particular offense, but to weigh all the circumstances which have influenced his life,
and to correct his wrong tendencies. Work of this type is preventive in the fullest sense of
the word.

242. THE INDETERMINATE SENTENCE.--The realization that punishment ought to fit the criminal
rather than the crime has led to the indeterminate sentence. Though not yet widely applied,
this reform is attracting more and more attention. A logical application of the indeterminate
sentence would require prisoners to be committed to prison, not for a specific term, but for
an indefinite period. The actual length of the prison term would depend upon the prison record
of the individual, and upon the promise that he showed of becoming a useful and normal citizen
if released. According to this plan, occasional criminals, and persons enticed or forced into
wrong-doing, would be entitled to release (regardless of the character of the crime) as soon
as it became apparent that they would not repeat the offense. Hardened criminals, on the other
hand, might remain in prison permanently, even though committed for a trifling offense. Certainly
we ought not to continue to commit and to re-commit hardened criminals for short terms, when
their past conduct proves that they have neither the intention nor the ability to make proper
use of their freedom.

243. THE FUNCTION OF THE MODERN PRISON.--In addition to the principle of the indeterminate
sentence, modern penology has approved a whole series of supplementary measures. The ideal
prison of to-day is not a gloomy dungeon, but a great plant which attempts to turn criminals
into useful citizens through the use of the school, the chapel, the workshop, the gymnasium,
the library, and even the theatre. Discipline, the fundamental weakness of offenders against
the law, is a cornerstone of prison life. More and more prisons are adopting the merit system,
according to which prisoners are graded and promoted to additional privileges on the basis
of behavior. In many prisons these privileges may include an "honor system" and "inmate self-government."
The prison attempts to supply the deficiencies in the convict's early training. Prisoners are
taught to take care of their bodies. They are taught useful trades, according to their abilities.
If illiterate they may go to the prison school. Religious exercises and moral instruction are
employed to develop a sense of moral values.

When consistent good behavior and earnest endeavor in prison duties indicate that the prisoner
is entitled to another chance in the outside world, he may be paroled, that is to say, he may
be released on certain conditions. Generally prisoners are not paroled until some person is
found who will guarantee them employment. In many states the work of the parole board is ably
supplemented by unofficial prisoners' aid societies which help the released man to readjust
himself to a free life. After a certain period of satisfactory conduct on parole the prisoner
is entitled to a full and unconditional discharge. The whole aim of the parole system is to
supervise the actions of the prisoner, without adding to his irritation or humiliation, but
with sufficient strictness to guard him against temptation and to replace him in prison if
he proves unworthy of the trust bestowed upon him.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What is a crime?

2. In what way may bad economic conditions be connected with crime?

3. What are the social causes of crime? What are the personal causes?

4. In what way are defects of government related to crime?

5. Summarize the remedies for crime.

6. Trace the influence of Magna Charta upon our ideal of justice.

7. How does the administration of our criminal law often result in injustice?

8. Why is it necessary to reform our criminal procedure?

9. What is the nature and function of the legal aid society?

10. What is a Public Defender? How does he help secure justice?

11. Trace the development of the theory of punishment.

12. What is the purpose of the "individualized treatment of offenders"?

13. What is the function of a probation system?

14. How should mentally defective criminals be treated?

15. Describe the work of the Juvenile Court.

16. Outline the purpose of the indeterminate sentence.

17. What are the chief functions of a modern prison?

Or all of the following:

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter xiii.

3. Lewis, The Offender, part iii, chapter i.

4. Smith, Justice and the Poor, pages 105-127.

5. Wines, Punishment and Reformation, chapter ii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Distinguish between crime, vice and sin. (Wines, page 11.)

2. Define criminal law. (Wines, page 12.)

3. What is the distinction between public and private wrongs? (Guitteau, pages 140-141.)

4. What are the first steps in a criminal action? (Guitteau, pages 142-143.)

5. What is an indictment? (Guitteau, page 143.)

6. Outline the steps in a criminal trial. (Guitteau, pages 144-146.)

7. What is a sumptuary law? (Wines, page 7.)

8. What are the eight distinct protections afforded by our criminal law? (Smith, page 108.)

9. What is the great defect of these protections? (Smith, page 111.)

10. What can be said as to the future development of the Public Defender movement? (Smith,
page 127.)

11. Is the average age of offenders declining or increasing? (Lewis, page 254.)

12. What is the relation of the school to crime? (Lewis, pages 262- 270.)

13. What is the relation of recreational facilities to crime? (Lewis, pages 276-285.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Make a classification of the criminal courts of your state.

2. The use of psychopathic experts in the criminal courts of your state.

3. Make a study of a near-by county jail. (Compare data gathered with Queen, The Passing of
the County Jail.)

4. The legal aid bureau in your state.

5. The parole system in your state.

6. Classify the correctional institutions in your state. What types of offenders are sent to each?

7. Interview, or write to, a prison official in your state regarding the practicability of
the indeterminate sentence.

II

8. Criminal law procedure in England. (Annals, vol. lii, pages 200- 207; Kaye, Readings in
Civil Government, pages 328-335.)

9. Criminal law procedure in the United States. (Beard, American Government and Politics, pages
568-577.)

10. Defects in the enforcement of the law. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government,
pages 173-181.)

11. The courts and the criminal. (Osborne, Society and Prisons, chapter ii; Lewis, The Offender,
part i, chapter iii.)

12. Reform of criminal procedure in the United States. (Annals, vol. lii, pages 102-107.)

13. The county jail. (Queen, The Passing of the County Jail.)

14. Crime prevention from the standpoint of the police. (Woods, Crime Prevention; Lewis, The
Offender, part ii, chapter ii; Annals, vol. lii, pages 56-60.)

15. Overcrowding in its relation to crime. (Riis, The Battle with the Slum; Addams, The Spirit
of Youth and the City Streets.)

16. Juvenile crime. (Mangold, Problems of Child Welfare, Part V.)

17. The Junior Republic. (George, The Junior Republic.)

18. The work of Judge Ben Lindsay of Denver. (Consult an encyclopedia.)

19. The legal aid society. (Smith, Justice and the Poor, part iii.)

20. The Public Defender. (Smith, Justice and the Poor, pages 105- 130.)

21. Probation and parole. (Lewis, The Offender, part i, chapter v.)

22. The Jukes. (Dugdale, The Jukes.)

23. The Kallikak family. (Goddard, The Kallikak Family.)

24. The criminal theories of Lombroso. (Consult an encyclopedia.)

25. Modern prison systems. (Henderson, Modern Prison Systems. Individual students may be assigned
to the study of the prison systems of particular countries.)

26. Industrial training in prison. (Lewis, The Offender, part i, chapters x and xii; Annals,
vol. xlvi.)

27. The discharged convict. (Booth, After Prison, What?)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

28. Is crime increasing in the United States?

29. The practicability of the indeterminate sentence.

30. Should capital punishment be abolished?

31. Advantages and disadvantages of the "honor system" in prison.

CHAPTER XXII

THE NEGRO

244. ORIGIN OF THE AMERICAN NEGRO.--Early in the seventeenth century the scarcity of labor
in the American colonies led to the introduction of African Negroes as slaves. In response
to the demand for slave labor on the southern plantations, the importation of Negroes increased
steadily during the next century. The slave trade was nominally abolished in 1808, but Negroes
continued to be brought in until the Civil War period. In September, 1862, President Lincoln
proclaimed abolished both the slave trade and the institution of slavery in the United States.
The legality of this act was substantiated in 1865 by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution.

245. RISE OF THE NEGRO PROBLEM.--The Emancipation Proclamation, followed by the Thirteenth
Amendment, conferred freedom upon four million slaves. In 1868 the Fourteenth Amendment made
the freed Negroes citizens of the United States, and in 1870 the Fifteenth Amendment enfranchised
them. Largely as the result of these measures, the problem of the slave developed into the
present Negro problem. The racial differences between the white and the Negro, as well as the
demoralizing effects of slavery, promised to render difficult the adjustment of the Negro to
American life. The situation was made more serious by the suddenness of emancipation, and by
the fact that the vote was extended the Negroes before most of them were ready for it. The
economic, social, and political upheaval effected in the South by the war, together with the
bitterness with which many southern white men regarded the newly freed Negroes, also contributed
to the difficulty of the situation. Lastly, the Negro became a problem because of the lack
of a national program in his behalf.

246. NUMBERS AND DISTRIBUTION.--In 1920 the Federal census gave 10,463,131 as the Negro population
of the United States. According to these figures the Negro constitutes slightly less than one
tenth of our total population. Eighty-five per cent of the Negroes live in the South. In Mississippi
and South Carolina the Negro exceeds the white population, while in several other southern
states the Negro constitutes from one fourth to one half of the total population.

About three fourths of our Negroes live in the rural districts. There is, however, an important
migratory movement which operates to decrease this percentage. There is a growing tendency
for southern Negroes to leave the rural districts and to move cityward. Chiefly because of
the economic attractions of urban life, many rural Negroes are moving toward the southern city;
in search of social equality as well as greater economic opportunities, many southern Negroes
are migrating to the cities of the North.

247. ADAPTABILITY OF THE NEGRO.--From one important angle, civilization is the process of getting
along with one's environment, partly by changing that environment, and partly by adapting one's
self to external conditions. An important characteristic of the Negro, not usually taken into
account, is his adaptability. Ours is predominantly a white man's civilization, and we are
accustomed to think of the Negro as an individual who finds it more or less difficult to fit
into our way of living. And yet one reason for believing that the Negro has a capacity for
modern civilization is that he has survived until the present time. Compare the Negro in this
regard with the American Indian, who, despite his many noble traits, has fared poorly under
the white man's civilization. The Indians of Cuba, for example, were so proud and unbending
that they died out under the slavery which the early Spanish imposed upon them; the Negro,
because of his teachableness and his passive strength, not only survived slavery, but has weathered
freedom under very disadvantageous circumstances.

248. PROGRESS SINCE THE CIVIL WAR.--The Negro has made considerable progress since the Civil
War. Many Negroes have become independent farmers and artisans, owning a considerable amount
of property. Despite the backwardness of Negro schools, great progress has been made in the
matter of decreasing Negro illiteracy. Whereas at the close of the Civil War some ninety per
cent of the Negroes were illiterate, less than a third of our present Negro population is illiterate.
In art, literature and science the Negro has already made a tolerable showing. Altogether it
is likely that an able and constructive leadership is being developed among the Negroes.

249. PRESENT ECONOMIC CONDITION.--In spite of the substantial progress made since the Civil
War, however, the present economic condition of the Negro is unsatisfactory. The great majority
of Negroes are unskilled laborers of a shiftless disposition. Because he is frequently neither
a dependable nor an efficient worker, the average Negro tends to receive low wages. The Negro
is not skilled in manufacturing or mechanical lines, and he is kept out of the higher trades
and professions by reason of illiteracy and social barriers. Very often the southern Negro
is a tenant farmer, carelessly tilling a small plot of land and mortgaging his crop in order
to secure the bare necessities of life. Large families, inadequately supported, and reared
under insanitary living conditions, are characteristic of the southern Negro. The failure to
save money, and the inability to protect themselves against exploitation by unscrupulous white
men, are characteristic weaknesses of many Negroes.

250. PRESENT SOCIAL CONDITION.--Though decreasing steadily, Negro illiteracy is still high.
This is a serious evil. Not only does illiteracy bar the Negro from the education and training
of which he is in such great need, but it allows unscrupulous persons to swindle and exploit
him. The Negro furnishes an abnormally large proportion of our prison population. Whether or
not this is partly the result of racial characteristics, it is certain that the bad economic
and social conditions surrounding Negro life lead to a high degree of criminality. In justice
to the Negro it should be noted that in many communities he is apprehended and convicted more
often than is the white culprit. Acts which would go unpunished or even unnoticed if committed
by white men often arouse the community and lead to severe punishment when committed by Negroes.
Statistics on Negro crime are also influenced by the fact that the poverty of the Negro often
causes him to go to jail while the white offender escapes with a fine.

A serious evil is race mixture between Negroes and whites. This has gone on since colonial
times, until at the present time probably more than half of the Negroes in the United States
have some degree of white blood. Such mixtures, while probably not disastrous from the standpoint
of biology, have unfortunate consequences socially. Generally the mulatto offspring are forced
to remain members of the Negro group, where they are subjected to social surroundings which
too often encourage disease, vice, and degeneracy. The majority of the states now have laws
forbidding marriage between Negroes and whites. Both white and Negro leaders agree that race
mixture ought to be stopped.

251. Yet in many southern states the Negro is barred from the polls. In many northern cities
where the Negro is allowed the ballot, his ignorance and irresponsibility make him the prey
of political "bosses" who control his vote. The question of Negro suffrage will be treated
later; [Footnote: See Chapter XXXIII.] here we may content ourselves with noting that the Negro's
right to vote is often restricted. In the South, at least, it is also true that the Negro has
but little share either in making the laws or in administering them.

252. URGENT NATURE OF THE NEGRO PROBLEM.--The Negro problem was never of more pressing importance
than it is to-day. Illiteracy is still perilously high, Negro crime is becoming more serious,
and the cityward tendency of the Negro is increasing his susceptibility to disease and vice.
In spite of prohibitive laws, racial intermixture is continuing, and the problem of the mixed
blood is becoming more and more acute. Social unrest among the masses of southern Negroes is
increasing. The World War created new aims and aspirations among thousands of Negroes. New
leaders are arising to preach racial equality for the Negro; old leaders are in many cases
becoming more impatient with the attitude of the white population.

253. HESITANCY IN ATTACKING THE PROBLEM.--The American people have been singularly backward
about grappling with the problem of fitting ten million Negro citizens into the fabric of American
democracy. One explanation of this backwardness is that until recently many have believed that
the Negro would die out under freedom. This expectation has not been realized, for while the
Negro population is increasing less rapidly than is the white population, it is nevertheless
increasing. The Negro is not dying out. Nor can he be deported to Liberia or other colonies,
as was often suggested in the last century. The Negro is here to stay, and his problems must
be solved.

254. NEED OF A CONSISTENT PROGRAM.--Many institutions and individuals have attacked various
phases of the Negro problem with courage and success, but we are in need of a unified and comprehensive
program rather than of a series of unrelated endeavors. Above all what is needed is not impassioned
opinion or cure-all schemes, but rather the development of a sound and comprehensive program
which shall attack the problem from a number of angles at the same time. Such a program must
have a double end in view: First, the immediate needs of the Negro must be met; second, we
must permit the Negro to be trained toward a position in which he will be able to play a useful
and honorable role in our national life. Thus the great comprehensive purpose of this program
is to help the Negro adapt himself to American life, to aid him in fitting in with our economic,
social, and political institutions, and to encourage him to contribute to the development of
American culture to the best of his ability.

255. EDUCATION.--Education is the most important element of any program designed to help the
Negro. Ability to read and write, the habit of study, training in correct thinking, all are
of such basic value that it is difficult to understand why we have so long neglected the education
of the Negro. We spend three or four times as much for the education of the white child per
capita as for the education of the Negro child. Negro schools are sparsely distributed; they
are poorly equipped, and they are sadly hampered by lack of competent teachers. Clearly we
must spend vast sums on Negro education, if we are to expect marked improvement in the Negro's
social and economic condition. We cannot expect the Negro to cease being a problem until he
has been trained in the fundamentals of citizenship. "The inadequate provision for the education
of the Negro," says the Southern University Race Commission, "is more than an injustice to
him; it is an injury to the white man. The South cannot realize its destiny if one third of
its population is undeveloped and inefficient."

256. ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT.--The Negro cannot be expected to become a thrifty, responsible citizen
until he is rendered capable of earning a decent living at productive work. He must acquire
the habit of working steadily and efficiently under a system of free contract. This economic
readjustment, many students of the Negro problem believe, will be attained largely through
industrial education. We already have several excellent industrial training schools for Negroes,
including Hampton and Tuskegee. The latter was made famous by Booker T. Washington, an ex-slave
who devoted his life to the economic readjustment of his people.

A great deal more must be done in this direction. In spite of the excellent beginnings made
at Hampton and Tuskegee, not more than one per cent of our Negroes have the privilege of industrial
education. More adequate instruction is needed in methods of agriculture and stock raising,
in the various crafts, and in those professions for which the Negro seems fitted. The South
needs labor badly, but she cannot use her millions of Negroes effectively until they are turned
into competent and dependable workers. The Negro appears to have little aptitude for mechanical
work, or for mill and factory employment. Diversified agriculture on a small scale seems to
be the most promising industry for him, and one in which he ought consistently to be encouraged.

257. THE NEED FOR COÖPERATION.--No permanent solution of the Negro's difficulties can be attained
without the friendly coöperation of all parties concerned. Most of our Negroes live in the
South, but the Negro is no more a purely southern question than Japanese immigration is a purely
Californian problem. We are one nation, and the problems of one section are the problems of
the whole. The South must not be left alone, either to neglect the Negro, or to struggle with
his difficulties as best she can. Generous aid must be extended her by the North, East, and
West, before we can expect a solution of the Negro question.

Furthermore, there must be coöperation between the leaders of the Negro and white races, otherwise
energy will be wasted and inter- racial bitterness created. Very promising beginnings in this
direction have recently been made in the South. Nevertheless it is to be regretted that many
leaders, both white and Negro, are still prone to propose "remedies" for the Negro problem
which serve their own interests, but which show little or no regard for the rights of the other
group, or for the welfare of the nation.

Above all, there must be a firm resolve to work toward a fair solution, and an earnest desire
to be just and humane. Hard and unpleasant facts cannot be argued away, but at least they can
be treated rationally. No solution can be reached except through law and order. Neither violence
nor deceit can solve this or any other problem. Race riots and lynchings are proof that those
who engage in them are unfit to carry on the work of American democracy.

258. THE PROMISE OF THE NEGRO.--There is a good deal of discussion as to whether or not the
Negro race is merely backward, or whether it is an inferior race. Those contending that the
Negro is only backward believe that ultimately he can be fitted into the fabric of American
life; those insisting that he is inferior declare that all attempts to adapt the Negro to American
life will prove unavailing.

Academic discussions of this sort are not to the point. As to whether or not the Negro is backward
or inferior, and as to precisely what each of these terms implies, there must always be a good
deal of dispute. For practical purposes it is enough to admit that the Negro cannot now do
many of the things which the average white man can do, and that in so far as this is true,
the Negro is less effective as a citizen.

At the same time, it should be frankly recognized that the Negro has shown himself capable
of substantial progress. It will be more appropriate to discuss the inferiority of the Negro
when he has failed to react to the most comprehensive, intelligent, and consistent program
which we are able to draw up. This we have not yet done, and until it is done, we shall have
less cause to deny to the Negro a capacity for civilization than the Negro will have cause
to complain of our unhelpful attitude toward him. So far as we now know, there is no scientific
justification for believing that the masses of American Negroes cannot ultimately be trained
to a useful sphere in American life.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. How were Negroes first introduced into this country?

2. When did the modern Negro problem come into existence?

3. What proportion of our population is Negro?

4. Where are most of our Negroes found?

5. What is meant by saying that the Negro is adaptable?

6. In what particulars has the Negro made substantial progress since the Civil War?

7. What is the present economic condition of the Negro?

8. Why is the social condition of the Negro unsatisfactory?

9. What can be said as to the present political condition of the Negro?

10. Why have we delayed the development of a comprehensive plan for meeting the needs of the Negro?

11. What is the importance of Negro education?

12. Why is the economic readjustment of the Negro important?

13. Discuss the need for coöperation in meeting the Negro's problems.

14. What is the promise of the American Negro citizen?

3. Washington, Tuskegee and its People, chapter i.

4. Williamson, Sociology of the American Negro, chapters xii, xvi, and xxvii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Discuss the recent decrease in Negro illiteracy. (Williamson, chapter xii.)

2. What difficulty is encountered in applying mental tests to Negroes? (Williamson, chapter xii.)

3. Outline the results of mental tests of the Negro. (Williamson, chapter xii.)

4. Summarize the chief characteristics of the Negro race. (Williamson, chapter xvi.)

5. What Negro faults might be turned into virtues? (Williamson, chapter xvi.)

6. Discuss the role of the mulatto leader. (Williamson, chapter xvi.)

7. What is Tuskegee Institute? (Washington, page 19.)

8. What are the chief aims of Tuskegee Institute? (Washington, page 21.)

9. What was Booker T. Washington's concept of education? (Washington, pages 28-30.)

10. What progress in Negro education has been made since 1880? (Annals, pages 51-52.)

11. What four forces retard the economic development of the Negro in the South? (Annals, page 55.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

II

1. African background of the American Negro. (Williamson, Sociology of the American Negro, part i.)

2. Slavery. (Hart, Social and Economic Forces in American History, chapter xix; Callender,
Selections from the Economic History of the United States, pages 768-793; Williamson, Sociology
of the American Negro, chapter v.)

3. Gains and losses under slavery. (Williamson, Sociology of the American Negro, chapter xxiv.)

4. The Negro in business. (Atlanta University Publications, No. 4.)

5. The Negro in professional occupations. (Annals, vol. xlix, pages 10-18.)

6. The Negro as an unskilled laborer. Annals, vol. xlix, pages 19- 28.

7. The Negro as a skilled worker. (Atlanta University Publications, No. 17.)

8. The system of Negro tenancy. (Annals, vol. xlix, pages 38-46.)

9. The Negro in the city. (Wolfe, Readings in Social Problems, chapter xviii; Annals, vol.
xlix, pages 105-119.)

10. The Negro family. (Atlanta University Publications, No. 13; Tillinghast, The Negro in Africa
and America, part iii, chapter iii; Annals, vol. xlix, pages 147-163.)

11. Negro organizations. (Annals, vol. xlix, pages 129-137.)

12. The Negro church. The mulatto. (Williamson, Sociology of the American Negro, chapters xx,
xxi, and xxii.)

14. Race relationships in the South. (Annals, vol. xlix, pages 164- 172; Storey, Problems of
To-day, chapter iii.)

15. Negro education. (Annals, vol. xlix, part iv; Wolfe, Readings in Social Problems, pages
769-783; Washington, The Story of the Negro, vol. ii, chapter v; Tillinghast, The Negro in
Africa and America, part iii, chapter iv.)

16. The work of Booker T. Washington, (Washington, Up from Slavery. See also an encyclopedia.)

17. Tuskegee Institute. (Washington, Tuskegee and its People.)

18. The Negro's part in the development of the South. (Annals, vol. xxxv, pages 124-133; Washington,
The Future of the American Negro.)

CHAPTER XXIII

THE FAMILY

259. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE FAMILY.--From whatever angle we approach society, the family is the
ultimate unit and basis. The whole fabric of civilization, whether considered from an economic,
a social, or a political standpoint, depends upon the integrity of the family, and upon the
wholesomeness of the home life centering about the father, mother, and children. The home is
the nursery of our fundamental institutions: it is the origin of our physical and mental inheritances;
it is the center of our training for private and public life; it is the moral and religious
fount which nourishes the ideals and beliefs which fashion our lives and mould our character.
A nation built upon decaying homes is bound to perish; a nation composed of normal prosperous
families is in a good way to perpetuate itself. It is of the very greatest importance, therefore,
that we inquire into the character and tendencies of the American family.

260. THE FAMILY IN THE MIDDLE AGES.--Fully to appreciate the nature of the modern family we
must know something of the family as it existed in Europe in the Middle Ages.

Unity was the striking characteristic of the medieval family. Economically it was very nearly
self-sufficing, that is to say, most of the food, clothing, and other necessities consumed
by it were prepared by the family members. Very little in the way of education and recreation
existed beyond the family circle. In religious activities the family played an important role,
family worship under the leadership of the father being a common domestic function. The medieval
family was stable, partly because legal and religious authority was concentrated in the hands
of the father, partly because the family members were economically interdependent, and partly
because the social and religious interests of the family members tended to coincide. Divorce
was uncommon, and the children generally remained in the home until their majority had been
attained.

261. THE FAMILY IN MODERN TIMES.--We have already seen that since the close of the Middle Ages,
and especially during the last two centuries, important economic, social, and political changes
have been going on in civilized society. In common with other social institutions, the family
has been greatly influenced by these changes. The family which we have described as the medieval
type has been either destroyed or greatly modified, and a new type is being developed. Probably
this new type of family will present substantial gains over the family of the Middle Ages,
nevertheless the period of transition is fraught with danger. A great problem of American democracy
is to aid in the social readjustment of the family. In order that we may be competent to aid
in this readjustment, let us discover in what ways the family has been modified by the economic,
social, and political changes referred to above.

262. THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION AND THE FAMILY.--We have examined somewhat in detail the effect
of the Industrial Revolution upon our economic life; it remains to be pointed out that the
same phenomenon has profoundly affected the character of our most vital social institution,
the family.

Directly or indirectly, the Industrial Revolution has affected family life among all classes
of the population. To some extent capitalism has given rise to a class of idle rich, living
upon the proceeds of permanent investments, and resorting to extravagance and loose methods
of living in order to occupy their time. This development is doubly unfortunate. In the first
place it renders difficult the maintenance of normal homes among the idle rich. In the second
place, the tendency of certain types of individuals to imitate and envy the idle rich encourages
false standards and leads to a depraved moral sense.

To those classes which furnish the majority of our professional men, the complex division of
labor has brought a serious danger. So great is the need of specialized training among these
groups that marriage is often delayed until after the age of thirty. The individual is then
in a better position to support a family, but often his habits are so firmly fixed that he
finds it difficult to adapt himself to family life.

Even more important, perhaps, have been the effects of the Industrial Revolution upon the masses
of wage earners. Men earning low wages are often unable to marry, or, if they assume that responsibility,
they are unable properly to support their families. In spite of the fact that capitalism has
greatly increased our material welfare, the dependence of large numbers of people upon day
wages increases the hazards of family life. Industrial accidents, occupational diseases, or
the interruption of earnings by strikes and unemployment,--any one of these mishaps may work
a hardship upon the wage-earner's family. Poverty may induce child labor, deprive the family
of proper food and other necessities, and retard the education of the children. Finally it
may so emphasize the elements of strain and worry that parents are unable to give proper attention
to the training of their children.

263. THE FACTORY SYSTEM AND THE HOME.--The Industrial Revolution has lessened the economic
importance of the home. The typical modern family is no longer self-sufficing, but is dependent
upon the factory system for many commodities formerly prepared within the home circle. Spinning,
weaving, tailoring, shoe-making, soap-making, and other industries have moved out of the home
and into the factory. Even the preparation of food is increasingly a function of agencies outside
the home. Especially in cities there has been a steady development of restaurants, delicatessen
shops, and factories engaged in the large- scale preparation of bread, canned soups, and other
food products.

There is thus less work to be done in the home than formerly; at the same time the development
of our industrial life has notably increased the amount of work to be done outside the home.
The outcome of these two complementary forces has been that not only the father, but often
the mother and the half-grown children as well, have been drawn into industry. As the result
of this development, the economic interdependence of the family has been destroyed, and the
way has been opened to the disintegration of the home. Social contacts between family members
have decreased, while the specialized character of the individual's daily work has operated
to break down the common interests which family members formerly had outside the home.

264. LACK OF PREPARATION FOR HOME-MAKING.--The factory system has rendered more difficult the
preparation of our boys and girls for home-making. Where boys go out to work at an early age
and are deprived of home training during the adolescent period, neither father nor mother has
the opportunity properly to acquaint them with the nature and responsibilities of home-making.
Girls very often are reared without adequate knowledge of cooking, sewing, and other household
arts. This is due, partly to the transfer of many of the domestic functions to specialists
beyond the home, and partly to the fact that where girls go into industry they spend most of
their time outside the home. In the case of both boys and girls, the decreased amount of time
spent in the home not only prevents proper training by the parents, but it stresses outside
interests which are too often opposed to domestic ideals. Many parents either allow or encourage
their children to acquire frivolous habits. As the result of all of these factors, both young
men and young women frequently marry without having been properly prepared for the responsibilities
of home-making.

265. DIFFICULTIES OF HOME-MAKING IN CROWDED CITIES.--With the development of manufacturing,
a larger and larger proportion of our people have made their homes in large cities. To many,
city life has brought increased opportunities for education and recreation, nevertheless it
is difficult to maintain a normal home life in a crowded city. Urban life is highly artificial
Simple and wholesome amusements are less common than expensive and injurious forms of recreation.
The noise and jar of city life often result in strain and jaded nerves. The scarcity and high
cost of house room is, for many city dwellers, an unavoidable evil. The poor are cramped into
small, uncomfortable tenements, while even the well-to-do are frequently found in congested
apartment houses. Under such circumstances, the home often becomes merely a lodging place.
Social life is developed out of, rather than in, the home. For the children of the poor there
is often no yard and no adequate provision for recreation. Among the rich, conditions are somewhat
better, though in fashionable apartment houses children are frequently objected to by neighboring
tenants or banned by landlords.

266. ECONOMIC INDEPENDENCE OF WOMEN.--Until very recently a married woman was economically
dependent upon her husband. But one of the effects of the Industrial Revolution has been to
make many women economically independent. Women are entering the industrial field with great
rapidity, and their presence there is now taken as a matter of course. Many women now avoid
marriage, partly because domestic interests fail to attract them, and partly because they have
become genuinely interested in industry. Where domesticity is the ultimate aim, many women
delay marriage because self-support renders them both able and desirous of retaining their
independence for a considerable period.

Domestic tranquillity is sometimes disturbed by the fact that wives were formerly self-supporting
girls. In most cases wives are dependent upon their husbands in money matters, a situation
which is apt to irritate women who were formerly self-supporting. The husband is often inclined
to rate the generalized character of housework as being of less importance than his own highly
specialized work. The wife's irritation at this may be increased by the fact that often she,
too, believes that her domestic duties are less dignified and less valuable than her former work.

Not only has the former independence of the wife made her less tolerant of domestic wrongs
and slights, but the realization that she can support herself, frequently encourages her to
seek a divorce. The temptation to take this step is increased by the fact that public opinion
now rarely frowns upon a divorced woman. This is in striking contrast to the situation two
hundred years ago, when most divorced women were not only unable to support themselves, but
were socially ostracized.

267. POLITICAL EMANCIPATION OF WOMEN.--Until very recently women have been legally and politically
subordinate to men. As recently as a century ago women in the leading countries of the world
were allowed neither to vote, nor to contract debts in their own name, nor to hold or will
property.

But within the last century women have been emancipated politically. Property rights have been
extended them; the growth of the woman's movement has resulted in the winning of female suffrage.
Economic independence and social freedom have combined with political emancipation to emphasize
the spirit of individualism among women. Politics and club work have, in the eyes of many wives
and mothers, become more attractive than domestic concerns, with a resultant neglect of the
home. Higher education for women, including a wider knowledge of legal matters, has acquainted
women with their legal rights and privileges, and has made them familiar with the steps necessary
to secure a divorce.

268. INDIVIDUALISM MAY BE EXAGGERATED.--The American people are celebrated for their strongly
individualistic character. This trait is closely related to the initiative and self-reliance
which have helped toward our industrial success; on the other hand, individualism may be carried
to the point of selfishness. It is desirable, of course, that both men and women maintain high
standards of living, and that they cultivate their respective personalities. It should be noted,
however, that marriage is often delayed or altogether avoided because of selfish ambition and
the desire to live a care-free and self-centered life. The insistence which many young people
place upon personal rights has encouraged the belief that marriage is intended for man's and
woman's convenience, rather than for the building of normal homes and the development of community
life. In too many marriages the contracting parties selfishly refuse to make the mutual concessions
necessary in married life and so wreck their domestic happiness.

269. THE DIVORCE EVIL.--Family instability has been increased by the demoralizing influences
which we have been discussing. A familiar symptom of family instability is the divorce rate.
One out of every eight or nine marriages in the United States is dissolved by divorce. Not
only do we have more divorces than all of the rest of the world together, but our divorce rate
is increasing three times as fast as is our population.

The value of these statistics is affected by two factors. In the first place, much domestic
unhappiness does not express itself in the separation of husband and wife. Or, where such separation
does take place, it may not be through the divorce court. Among the city poor, for example,
desertion is four times as common as is divorce. Thus the divorce rate indicates only a share
of family instability.

The second modifying factor, however, lessens the force of our divorce statistics. A high divorce
rate is to be interpreted with care. Our divorce rate is higher than that of European countries,
but it should be remembered that in those countries where customs, laws, and religious beliefs
are relatively conservative, families may be held together legally in spite of the fact that
they have already disintegrated. Thus family life may be as unstable in a country in which
the divorce rate is low, as in a country in which the divorce rate is high.

270. LAXITY OF OUR DIVORCE LAWS.--Although divorce may sometimes be necessary, it is clear
that in many of the states of the Union divorce laws are too lax. The practice of the states
as regards divorce is divergent: in South Carolina divorce is absolutely prohibited; in the
remaining states there is a variable number of grounds upon which divorce may be secured. Divorces
are often rushed through the courts, partly because of the overworked character of the divorce
tribunals, and partly because public opinion tolerates the lax administration of divorce laws.
In some states divorces have been secured in fifteen minutes, being granted without any attempt
at solemnity, with no adequate investigation, and with numerous opportunities for collusion
between the parties involved. The effect of this laxness has been to encourage the dissolution
of the home for trivial and improper causes.

271. THE QUESTION OF STRICTER DIVORCE LAWS.--Uniform divorce laws among the several states
are now being agitated. The essential provisions of such laws may be outlined as follows: It
is desirable to have a court of domestic relations, which shall carefully and wisely attempt
a reconciliation of husband and wife before divorce proceedings are resorted to. Applicants
for divorce should be bona fide residents of the state in which the suit is filed, and should
be required to reside in the state two years before a decree of absolute divorce is granted.
In some states at least, the number of grounds upon which divorce may be secured should be
reduced. An adequate investigation should be undertaken, both in order to determine the justice
of the suit, and to prevent collusion. The primary aim of the divorce laws should be to allow
relief from a vicious and hopelessly wrecked union, but at the same time to prevent the misuse
of the statutes by irresponsible and unscrupulous persons.

272. LAXITY OF OUR MARRIAGE LAWS.--The fact that unwise marriages are an immediate cause of
divorce leads back to the question of our marriage laws. Marriage laws often permit the mating
of couples unfit for home-making. In some states the authorities are not overcareful to prevent
the marriage of persons who are mentally defective. There is among the several states no agreement
as to the legal age of marriage, and no agreement as to the relationship within which marriage
is forbidden. Hasty unions have been encouraged by the lack of solemnity which characterizes
civil marriage. Marriage is more and more a civil contract, devoid of religious sanctions and
spiritual associations. Many consider marriage as a civil relation not radically different
from any other contract. The effect of this changed attitude has been to encourage the enactment
of loose marriage laws, and the careless administration of sound marriage laws.

273. THE QUESTION OF STRICTER MARRIAGE LAWS.--Stricter marriage laws are being advocated in
many states. We know far too little about eugenics to warrant prediction as to the type of
individuals best fitted to build normal homes, but it is clearly desirable to prohibit the
marriage of all mental defectives. There are also good reasons for the restriction of the marriage
of minors, of persons between whose ages there is a wide disparity, and of persons who are
members of widely divergent races. It would probably check hasty marriages to increase the
length of time elapsing between the issuance of the marriage license and the performance of
the ceremony. If modern marriages were more distinctly upon a religious basis, it is likely
that many persons who now rush thoughtlessly into marriage would be led seriously to reflect
upon the significance of the step.

274. LAW NOT THE UTLIMATE REMEDY FOR FAMILY INSTABILITY.--The careful enactment and wise administration
of sound laws on marriage and divorce will undoubtedly check the number of unhappy and unsuccessful
marriages. Nevertheless, law is not the ultimate remedy for family instability. Unduly restrictive
marriage laws may result in abnormal tendencies among certain classes of the population, while
severe prohibitions upon divorce may prevent individuals from securing release from a hopelessly
wrecked marriage. Divorce is only a symptom of deeper-lying evils. Really to remove the dangers
which threaten the integrity of the family we must go deeper than legislation.

275. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL READJUSTMENT.--One fundamental method of safeguarding the family is
to counteract the injurious effects of the Industrial Revolution. Poverty must be lessened
or eliminated, so that men will be enabled to marry and support families decently. The evils
of overcrowding must be attacked in the interest of a normal home life. Mothers' pensions and
social insurance are desirable methods of protecting the laborer's family against the risks
of industry. The prohibition of child labor and the safeguarding of women in industry will
also tend to keep the family intact, and to permit proper home training. In short, any measures
which will help individuals to adjust themselves to the economic and social changes of the
present age will provide a more firm and solid foundation for a normal family life.

276. EDUCATION AND THE FAMILY.--Far more fundamental than legislation on marriage and divorce
is the training of young people toward a fuller appreciation of the responsibilities of home-making.
In the problem of family instability, laws reach symptoms, while education attacks causes.
By education is here meant not merely formal training in the school, but character-building
of every type. This includes training in the home, in the school, and in the church. Only when
boys and girls are accorded sound training by these various agencies will they be properly
prepared to make homes.

Our whole educational system ought to emphasize the importance of a pure and wholesome family
life. The sanctity of the marriage bond, the seriousness of family responsibilities, and the
duty to rear a normal healthy family, ought to be impressed upon every boy and girl. Young
people should be taught to consider adolescence as a period of preparation for home-building.
During this period it is the duty of the boy to fit himself for the proper support of a family,
while the girl ought to feel obligated to become familiar with the tasks and duties of housekeeping.
The choice of a husband or wife ought to be made, not on the basis of passing fancy, but with
regard to a life of mutual service. Extreme individualism ought to be discouraged; personal
pleasure ought to be interpreted in the light of marriage as a partnership. Above all, marriage
should be faced with the realization that it requires adaptation and concessions on the part
of both husband and wife. Mutual consideration and respect must predominate in the future American
family, while the spirit of impatience and selfishness must be eliminated.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What is the significance of the family?

2. What were the essential characteristics of the medieval family?

3. Why is the modern family in a period of transition?

4. Outline the effect of the Industrial Revolution upon the family.

5. To what extent has the factory supplanted the home as an industrial center?

6. Discuss the difficulties of home-making in crowded cities.

7. How have many groups of women become economically independent?

8. Discuss the political emancipation of women.

9. What is the extent of divorce in this country? What two factors must be taken into account
in interpreting these figures?

10. To what extent are our divorce and marriage laws lax?

11. What proposals have been made toward the correction of this evil?

12. Why is law not the ultimate cure for family instability?

13. What is the importance of economic and social readjustment in the problem of the family?

14. What should be the chief aims of education with regard to preparation for home-making?

Or all of the following:

2. Burch and Patterson, American Social Problems, chapter xxii.

3. Ellwood, Sociology and Modern Social Problems, chapters v, vi, vii, and viii.

4. Goodsell, The Family as a Social and Educational Institution, chapters xi, xii, and xiii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Discuss the origin of human marriage. (Ellwood, pages 97-108.)

2. Distinguish between the maternal and paternal types of family. (Ellwood, pages 110-128.)

3. What was the character of the early Roman family? (Ellwood, pages 132-138.)

4. What influence has Christianity exerted upon the family? (Ellwood, pages 142-144.)

5. Summarize the ways in which industry may disintegrate the family. (Goodsell, pages 461-464.)

6. What is the origin of higher education for women in this country? (Goodsell, pages 439-441.)

7. Discuss the divorce rate in this country. (Ellwood, pages 148-154; Burch and Patterson,
pages 315-321; Goodsell, pages 457-459.)

8. Name the various grounds upon which divorce may be secured. (Ellwood, pages 154-157; Burch
and Patterson, pages 321-322.)

9. Why is our divorce rate increasing? (Burch and Patterson, pages 322-327.)

10. What proposal has been made relative to a uniform divorce law? (Burch and Patterson, pages
327-328.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Interview an elderly friend for the purpose of discovering how many commodities now produced
outside the home were made within the family circle a half century ago.

2. Make a list of the advantages which the city offers over the country or the small town.
Make another list showing wherein it is more difficult to maintain a normal home in the city
than in the more sparsely settled districts of the country.

3. The extent to which girls and women in your community are going into industrial pursuits.

4. The marriage laws of your state.

5. The divorce laws of your state.

6. What amendments, if any, would you offer to the marriage and divorce laws of your state?

II

7. The primitive family. (Goodsell, The Family as a Social and Educational Institution, chapter
ii.)

8. The family in the early stages of civilization. (Burch and Patterson, American Social Problems,
chapter vi.)

9. Influence of Christianity upon the family. (Goodsell, The Family as a Social and Educational
Institution, chapter vi.)

10. The family in the Middle Ages. (Goodsell, The Family as a Social and Educational Institution,
chapter vii.)

11. The English family in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. (Goodsell, The Family as
a Social and Educational Institution, chapter ix.)

12. The family in the American colonies. (Goodsell, The Family as a Social and Educational
Institution, chapter x.)

13. The feminist movement. (Annals, vol. lvi, part i.)

14. The home in the crowded city. (Riis, Peril and Preservation of the Home.)

15. Desertion. (Colcord, Broken Homes.)

16. Divorce statistics. (Willcox, The Divorce Problem, a study in statistics; Lichtenberger,
Divorce, chapter v.)

17. Uniform divorce laws. (Wolfe, Readings in Social Problems, chapter xv.)

18. Education for family building. (Annals, vol. lxvii, pages 47- 53.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

19. Should Congress be granted the power, through constitutional amendment, to pass a Federal
divorce law?

20. Should men be required to have a minimum income before being granted a marriage license?

21. Is domestic science more or less important now than it was a century ago?

22. Are the chances of a successful marriage greater or less if marriage takes place after
both parties are more than twenty-five years of age?

CHAPTER XXIV

DEPENDENCY: ITS RELIEF AND PREVENTION

277. THE MEDIEVAL NEIGHBORHOOD.--Throughout the earlier part of the medieval period the majority
of the common people of western Europe lived in small agricultural communities. There was little
in the way of trade or travel, for the area comprising the village or the feudal manor was
relatively self-sufficing. The interests of the people centered almost wholly about the local
neighborhood into which they had been born, and in which they lived and died. Life was stable,
and the daily work of the peasants entailed few hazards. When, because of illness or accident,
individuals were temporarily unable to support themselves, informal aid was extended them by
neighbors and friends. In case of a more serious dependency, growing out of physical or mental
defect, for example, the aid extended by neighbors might be supplemented by help from the feudal
lord. The few strangers in the community found the monasteries always open to them, regardless
of the character of their need.

278. BREAKDOWN OF THE MEDIEVAL NEIGHBORHOOD.--During the latter half of the medieval period,
and during the earlier part of the modern period, a number of factors combined to break down
this early type of neighborhood. The Crusades, the decay of feudalism, and the Renaissance
disrupted the stable, isolated, and self-sufficing life of the medieval neighborhood. The discovery
of America and the growth of towns and cities stimulated trade and travel. People moved about
more, strangers came into the community, family contacts and friendships were broken, and community
life became more impersonal. For many people a change of habitation or of occupation increased
the hazards of life, while the decline of the neighborhood spirit made informal aid by neighbors
and friends less available. To meet the growing needs of the dependent classes, the Church
extended and improved its system of almsgiving. To a greater extent than ever before the monasteries
became havens of refuge for the helpless and friendless. The clergy not only themselves dispensed
alms, but encouraged the wealthy laity to do likewise.

Unfortunately, however, the aim of almsgiving in this period was not so much to help the dependent
back to self-support, as to increase the piety of the individual dispensing the alms. Pauperism
was looked upon as inevitable, and the moral effect upon the giver was generally of more importance
than was the use that the needy made of the alms received.

279. RISE OF THE URBAN NEIGHBORHOOD.--The breakdown of the medieval neighborhood was completed
by the Industrial Revolution. The factory system drew large numbers of countrymen to the cities.
Here they worked long hours in insanitary work-shops, and lived in crowded tenements devoid
of many improvements which we now regard as necessary to health and comfort. Home life was
disrupted, and neighborhood ties were broken in the process of adjusting agricultural laborers
to the factory system. The medieval neighborhood began to be supplanted by a new type of neighborhood,
one primarily urban and impersonal in character. This new type of neighborhood brought with
it greater hazards for the poor, and at the same time offered fewer opportunities for mutual
aid between neighbors. Under such circumstances, the problem of dependency became increasingly
serious.

280. EXTENT OF DEPENDENCY IN MODERN TIMES.--One of the vital problems of American democracy
is the proper care of those individuals who are unable, either to support themselves, or otherwise
to protect themselves against the hazards of modern life. The extent to which individuals are
dependent for help upon agencies outside their family circle is unknown. Statistics are meager,
and the complex nature of dependency renders it difficult of measurement. Perhaps a reasonable
estimate of dependency in the United States is that at some time during the year about five
per cent of the population seeks charitable assistance. The total amount expended annually
for the care of the dependent classes in the United States is more than half a billion dollars.

281. CAUSES OF DEPENDENCY.--The causes of dependency in a modern community are difficult to
analyze. Generally the applicant for charity is not in a state of dependency because of a single
isolated cause, but because of a number of combined causes, interlocking in a most confusing
way. In the effort to throw light upon this tangled situation, let us briefly survey the problem
from the economic, social, personal, and political viewpoint.

From the economic viewpoint much dependency is the result of maladjustments in industry. Most
laborers have little or no savings, so that when unemployment, strikes, industrial accidents,
or crises interrupt their earnings, they are soon forced to fall back upon charity. Economic
causes figure in from fifty to eighty per cent of charity cases, either as minor or major factors.
In the majority of these cases the unemployment or other handicap of the laborer is due to
industrial maladjustments beyond his power to control.

Closely connected with the economic causes of dependency are the social causes. The crowding
of large numbers of workmen into cities leads to abnormal living conditions, which encourage
ill-health, disease, and vice. Among unskilled laborers, poverty and the large number of children
often prevent the young from securing a helpful amount of education. The lack of wholesome
and inexpensive recreation, and the existence of costly and injurious forms of entertainment,
encourage unwise expenditure of savings, and, to that extent, may influence dependency. Child
labor and the employment of mothers in industry prevent a normal family life, and may be intimately
associated with illiteracy, low moral standards, and pauperism.

Often indistinguishable from social causes are the personal causes of dependency. Laziness,
irresponsibility, and thriftlessness figure in from ten to fifteen per cent of charity cases.
Penniless old age is often the outcome of bad personal habits in youth and middle life. Idling,
gambling, and other vicious habits are important causes of pauperism. Sickness is a factor
in at least a third of charity cases, while disease figures in seventy-five per cent of such
cases. Physical or mental defect is of great importance in dependency, often accompanying bad
personal habits as either cause or effect. The feeble-minded, the epileptic, and the insane
constitute a serious burden upon the community.

Defects in government have in some cases either encouraged dependency, or have perpetuated
it. In so far as we have neglected legislation designed to reduce the force of industrial maladjustments,
political factors may be said markedly to influence dependency. Our tardiness in protecting
the labor of women and children is certainly responsible for a share of dependency. Our failure
to adopt a comprehensive program of social insurance has added to the burden upon charity.
Housing is receiving more and more attention in our cities, yet the living quarters in many
districts continue to be sources of ill-health and vice. Probably we shall eliminate a share
of dependency when we shall have established a comprehensive system of state and Federal employment
bureaus. The wise restriction of immigration is also important, as is the matter of vocational
education for the unskilled classes.

282. THE GIVING OF ALMS.--Until the period of the Reformation in Europe, the distribution of
alms by the clergy and by pious laymen was the chief method of dealing with the problem of
dependency. Then the Reformation crippled the temporal power of the Church, and ecclesiastical
almsgiving declined in importance. The place formerly held by the Church was filled, partly
by public almshouses or workhouses, and partly by indiscriminate and unorganized almsgiving
on the part of kind-hearted individuals. Individuals distributed alms chiefly to dependents
with whom they were personally acquainted, and whose needs could be effectively met without
their being removed to an institution. Wandering dependents, and unfortunates whose needs were
relatively serious and permanent, were cared for in the almshouse. This latter institution
developed very early in England, and appeared in colonial America in the seventeenth century.
Until about 1850 it was often the only institution in American communities which cared for
the helpless adult dependent. The almshouse, as it existed in this country a few decades ago,
has been described as a charitable catch- all, into which were crowded paupers, the insane,
the feeble-minded, the blind, the orphaned, and other types of dependents.

283. ALMSGIVNG PROVES INADEQUATE.--The attempt to meet the problem of modern dependency solely
by the giving of alms illustrates the difficulty of employing an ancient and simple method
of treatment for a disease which has become highly complex.

Almsgiving by individuals very often pauperizes rather than helps the individual to help himself.
When the dominant aim of the almsgiver is to satisfy himself as to his piety, it is only by
accident that the alms really help the recipient. Very often what is needed is not money or
material aid in other form, but wise direction and friendly advice. There is still a great
deal of unwise and indiscriminate almsgiving by individuals, but the spread of new ideals of
social help is probably cutting down the amount.

The almshouse, as it existed in the last century, was productive of much evil. Very often superintendents
were allowed to run these institutions for personal profit, a practice which allowed the exploitation
and neglect of the inmates. The practice of herding into this generalized institution every
variety of dependent had great drawbacks. Specialized care and treatment were impossible. Disease
was transmitted, and vice encouraged, by the failure properly to segregate various types of
dependents. Inmates were in many cases allowed to enter and leave the institution at will,
a privilege which encouraged shiftlessness and improvidence.

284. THE EVOLUTION OF NEW IDEALS.--After the middle of the last century our attitude toward
the dependent classes began to change rapidly. There was a gradual abandonment of almsgiving
as the sole method of attacking dependency. Rising standards of conduct contributed to the
development of new ideals, some of them now fairly well established, and some of them still
in the formative process. The general content of these new ideals may be briefly described
as follows:

The primary aim of those who come in contact with the dependent classes should be to help those
classes, rather than to satisfy pious aspirations or to indulge sentimental promptings. Rather
than believing that alms are helpful because they are gratefully received, we should first
discover what will help the dependent, and then train ourselves and him to take satisfaction
in that which is helpful.

Poverty is not to be taken for granted. It is neither inevitable nor irremedial. It is a social
disease which we must attack with the aim of destroying.

When individuals are found in an emergency they should be given relief, regardless of personal
merit. The extension of relief in case of fire, flood or other accident is only an act of humanity.

A different and more productive form of help is remedial work. This type of work often accompanies
and follows relief work. It is corrective, for example, the finding of employment for a friendless
man, or the medical treatment of a sick man, is remedial work.

A still higher form of social work is preventive. Hand in hand with the giving of work to friendless
men, and the curing of sick men, for example, we must undertake measures which will prevent
a recurrence of unemployment on the one hand, and illness on the other. Preventive work is
often indirect, but ultimately it is the most important type of social work.

Recently there has been a reaction against almsgiving or pure charity, and a distinct tendency
to develop what may be called the concept of social service. Charity is too often concerned
with the pauper class; social service is a wider term and includes not only what was formerly
known as charity, but also child welfare, settlement work, folk dancing, and other socializing
activities which are helpful in a modern community, but which have nothing to do with alms.
Charity too often pauperizes and degrades; social service encourages self-help and self-expression
in the vital social relations. Formerly charity was almost exclusively the function of the
pious and the sympathetic; the present tendency is for social service to become a distinct
profession, administered by highly trained specialists.

285. THE STAGE OF SPECIALIZATION.--One of the signs that we are recognizing the growing need
of an individualized treatment of dependents, is the degree to which our social service agencies
are becoming specialized. The treatment of the dependent may take either an institutional or
a non-institutional form. Let us briefly notice the specialization in each of these forms.

The almshouse, almost universal a century ago, is being rapidly displaced by a series of specialized
institutions. In most states there are now separate institutions for the treatment of the pauperized,
the diseased, the blind, the deaf, the insane, the feeble- minded, and the otherwise dependent.
Inmates of these institutions are given special treatment by experts. When the defect has been
remedied, the patient is released; in case remedy is impossible, the individual is segregated
and accorded humane and sympathetic treatment during the rest of his life. This prevents the
untold harm of releasing defective and irresponsible people into the community. Institutions
of this character are largely under state control, and are intended primarily for individuals
who cannot be properly treated in their homes.

Dependents who are only slightly or temporarily handicapped, or who are not in need of special
treatment, may be best cared for in their homes and by private individuals or associations.
In this non- institutional form of social service there is also a high degree of specialization.
The casual almsgiver has been succeeded by a whole series of social service agencies. Prisoners'
aid societies, employment bureaus, immigrant aid societies, flower missions, Americanization
clubs, recreation centers, housing clubs, community nursing clubs, and scores of other organizations
have sprung up. Every large city in the United States has several hundred of these organizations,
each attacking social problems of a special type.

286. NECESSITY OF COÖRDINATION.--Specialization in social service has been followed by the
development of means of coördinating the various specialized agencies.

That there is urgent need of such coördination has been repeatedly called to our attention.
It is still true that often the institutions for the dependent classes within a single state
pursue different methods, and so limit their separate fields that many types of dependents
are inadequately cared for.

Among the large number of private agencies there has been a great waste of time and energy.
The fact that each society is independent of its fellows has meant that in some fields of social
service efforts were duplicated, while other fields were neglected. Cases demanding treatment
by several agencies could not be given adequate care because of the lack of correlation among
such agencies. Beggars often imposed upon a number of different societies by assuming different
names. Each society had its own periods of campaigning for funds, a practice which meant an
excess of tag-days and campaigns and a waste of time and energy on the part of social workers.

287. COÖRDINATION OF PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS.--The coördination of public institutions for the
dependent and defective classes proceeded rapidly after 1880. At present the situation in the
various states is somewhat as follows:

The actual administration of local institutions is generally in the hands of the town or county
authorities. Large cities, however, often have a system of institutional relief separate from
that of the county in which they are located. In many states the local authorities are subject
to some measure of central supervision by a state board, which is called by various names.
In most cases this is merely an advisory board with power to inspect state institutions, and
to make recommendations to the governor or state legislature. More recently, there is a tendency
to go still further, and to reorganize and consolidate the various state institutions so as
to bring them directly under the control of a state board or commission. In several states
the board is already one of control, that is to say, it has the power not only to inspect the
various institutions of the state, but also the power to appoint their superintendents, and,
in general, to administer the institutional relief of the state.

288. COÖRDINATION OF PRIVATE AGENCIES.--The movement to coördinate social service agencies
of a private nature has been relatively slow and unsatisfactory. This has been due, partly
to the large number of societies involved, and partly to the lack of any centralized authority
to supervise such organizations. In some large cities there has been a considerable degree
of consolidation among societies which are purely charitable, but among the large number of
social service organizations which are not purely charitable, the coördinating process has
not gone beyond the functional stage. In this stage the various social service agencies of
a city remain separate and distinct, but may become members of a council or federation which
serves to coördinate their various functions. [Footnote: In this functional coördination the
"consolidated" or "united" charities of the city generally appear as a single organization.]

The aim of this functional coördination is to secure the greatest degree of coöperation possible
without the actual amalgamation of the coöperating agencies. Imposition by beggars is unlikely,
because a clearing house of information keeps the various agencies informed as to the work
of one another. By periodic reference to a centralized system of card indices, different societies
may keep informed to what types of social work are being duplicated, and as to which lines
of effort are being neglected. Where the social service agencies of a city are thus coördinated,
an applicant applies to the central agency and is then directed to the organization best suited
to meet his needs. Such coördinating agencies stress the necessity of scientific work which
will aid in the adjustment of personal relations and help secure the maximum of result with
the minimum of expenditure.

289. THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF THE FUTURE.--The small, stable, and relatively unprogressive neighborhood
of the early European period has disappeared before the important economic, social, and political
changes of the last five centuries. The typical neighborhood of modern times is larger, more
inclined to be made up of transient and dissimilar types of people, and more impersonal. It
is more progressive, but more likely to hold hazards for the average individual. The whole
period since the Industrial Revolution has been one of neighborhood readjustment, of which
many aspects of the problems of crime, the family, and dependency are phases. The new type
of neighborhood has probably come to stay, but there are indications that life in the community
of the future will prove less and less hazardous. The development of professional social service,
growing out of the charity movement, but now embracing community work of every kind, will probably
lessen the evils of the modern neighborhood, and retain its desirable features.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. Describe the character of the medieval neighborhood.

2. What factors contributed to the breakdown of the medieval neighborhood?

3. What effect did the Industrial Revolution have upon the neighborhood?

4. What is the extent of dependency in modern times?

5. What are the economic causes of dependency?

6. What are the social causes of dependency?

7. What are the personal causes of dependency?

8. How may defects in government contribute to dependency?

9. Discuss the giving of alms in early Europe.

10. Why is almsgiving inadequate as a method of treating dependency?

11. Outline the new ideals which recently have begun to influence the treatment of the dependent.

12. What is the nature of social service?

13. Discuss specialization in social service.

14. Why is coördination a necessary step when social service agencies have become highly specialized?

15. What may be said as to the character of the neighborhood of the future?

Or all of the following:

2. Devine, Misery and its Causes, chapter v.

3. Devine, Principles of Relief, chapter ii.

4. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter xiv.

5. Warner, American Charities, revised edition, chapters iii and xxii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Why is it difficult to classify the causes of poverty? (Devine, Misery and its Causes, pages
167-169.)

2. What are the objective causes of dependency? (Warner, page 41.)

3. What are the subjective causes of dependency? (Warner, page 42).

4. What is the Charity Organization Society? (Warner, page 450.)

5. Why did the Charity Organization Society arise? (Warner, page 451.)

6. Where did the first society of this type arise? (Warner, page 451.)

7. Discuss the methods of the Charity Organization Society. (Warner, page 458.)

8. What is the nature of the machinery employed by the Charity Organization Society? (Warner,
page 458.)

9. What are the essentials of a sound relief policy? (Devine, Principles of Relief, page 13.)

10. Under what circumstances should charitable aid be refused? (Devine, Principles of Relief,
page 21.)

11. What is meant by the term "medical charities"? (Guitteau, page 154.)

12. What is the great aim of social service? (Devine, Misery and its Causes, page 235.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Make a study of your neighborhood with regard to some or all of the following points: (a)
Increase in population (b) Changes in the racial type of the population (c) Changes in the
occupational tendencies of the population (d) Changes in the spirit of neighborliness (e) Changes
in the administration of relief to dependents.

2. Study the causes of dependency in your community with regard to the influence of economic,
social, personal and political factors. (For this information, interview local social workers.)

3. Study an actual charity case, and make a diagram or sketch showing the number of factors
involved.

4. Make a visit to an almshouse (sometimes called the poorhouse), and report to the class upon
conditions there.

5. List and classify the types of institutions which care for dependents in your state.

6. The extent to which institutions for the dependent have been coördinated in your state.

7. Classify the agencies which are performing some type of professional social service in your
community.

8. Interview a local social worker with regard to his or her ideals of social service. (Compare
the result with the ideals set forth in Section 284 of this chapter.)

II

9. The personal causes of degeneration. (Warner, American Charities, chapter iv.)

10. The social causes of degeneration. (Warner, American Charities, chapter vi.)

11. Desertion. (Devine, Principles of Relief, chapter xi.)

12. Dependent children. (Devine, Principles of Relief, chapter ix; Warner, American Charities,
chapter xii.)

13. Relief in the home. (Devine, Principles of Relief, chapter vi.)

14. Relief in disasters. (Devine, Principles of Relief, part iv.)

15. Beggars and impostors. (Conyngton, How to Help, chapter ix.)

16. Volunteer work in charitable relief. (Devine, The Practice of Charity, chapter vi.)

17. The social settlement. (Conyngton, How to Help, chapter xxvi.)

18. The insane and the feeble-minded. (Warner, American Charities, chapters xiv and xv.)

19. Medical charities. (Cabot, Social Work; Henderson, Introduction to the Study of the Dependent,
Defective and Delinquent Classes, part ii, chapter viii.)

20. Organization of charity in England. (Henderson, Introduction to the Study of the Dependent,
etc., chapter iv.)

21. Organization of charity in France. (Henderson, Introduction to the Study of the Dependent,
etc., chapter ix.)

22. Organization of charity in Holland. (Henderson, Introduction to the Study of the Dependent,
etc., chapter v.)

23. Organization of charity in Germany. (Henderson, Introduction to the Study of the Dependent,
etc., chapter i.)

24. The spirit of social work. (Devine, The Spirit of Social Work.)

25. Tendencies in social service. (Warner, American Charities, chapter xxiii.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

26. To what extent is the number of inmates in institutions for the dependent classes an accurate
guide to the extent of dependency throughout the state or nation?

27. Should all institutions for the dependent classes be placed under the direct control of
the state authorities?

28. Should the state authorities attempt to administer relief to dependents who remain in their
homes?

29. Should the giving of alms by individuals be abandoned in favor of the practice of treating
dependency entirely through professional or official agencies?

30. What should we do when street beggars ask us for money?

CHAPTER XXV

RURAL LIFE

290. THE SIGNIFICANCE OF RURAL LIFE.--Agriculture is our oldest and most basic industry. Almost
half of our people are found in the rural districts, most of them subsisting directly upon
the products of farm, forest, and range. Directly or indirectly our cities are largely dependent
upon the country. The foodstuffs consumed in cities, as well as the vast quantities of raw
materials used by our manufacturing industries, come largely from the rural districts. To some
extent even our urban population is recruited from the ranks of the country folk. Altogether,
American rural life is a matter of vital concern to the nation. "Our civilization rests at
bottom," Theodore Roosevelt once said, "upon the wholesomeness, the attractiveness, and the
completeness, as well as the prosperity, of life in the country."

291. NATURE OF THE RURLAL PROBLEM.--Contrary to popular belief, the rural problem arises not
so much from the actual degeneration of rural society, as from the fact that many rural districts
have failed to progress as rapidly as have urban communities. Compared with his predecessor
of a century ago, the farmer of to-day is better fed, better clothed and housed, and better
able to secure adequate education and recreation. At the same time the relatively greater advances
which urban communities have made in economic and social activities render the improvement
of rural life highly desirable. The specific problem of rural life is to develop in the country
economic and social institutions which are especially adapted to the farmer's needs. Not until
this is done shall we be able to maintain on our farms a class of people who can make the maximum
contribution to American life in all of its phases.

292. THE RURAL PROBLEM IS OF RECENT ORIGIN.--The most spectacular development in American economic
life has been the introduction and growth of the factory system. Commerce and manufactures
were important during even the colonial period, and during the first half century of our national
history our dominant economic interest was the fostering of manufacturing, domestic trade,
and transportation. With the development of manufacturing came the growth of the cities, and
with the growth of the cities added attention was called to immigration, crime, health, and
related social problems. Farm life, so familiar and apparently so healthful, was not thought
of as constituting a national problem until late in the nineteenth century.

293. THE CITYWARD DRIFT.--A half century ago more than three fourths of our population was
rural; to-day less than half of the people of the United States live in the country. Both urban
and rural districts have been steadily increasing in population since the opening of the nineteenth
century, but since 1900 the city population has increased three times as fast as has the rural
population. One reason for this more rapid growth of the cities is that since the eighties
the majority of our immigrants have flocked to the cities rather than to the rural districts.
Another reason, however, is that the country people have been drifting to the towns and cities.
This cityward drift has an important bearing upon the character of rural life.

294. REASONS FOR THE CITYWARD DRIFT.--A number of factors explain the tendency of rural people
to move to the cities. The perfection and wider use of farm machinery have decreased the need
for farm laborers, and the excess laborers have gone to the towns and cities. The fact that
urban industries offer shorter hours, better pay, and cleaner work than does farming has attracted
many young country people. The isolation of farm life and its frequent lack of comforts have
impelled many country dwellers to move to the cities. Some country people have gone to the
city in order to be near schools and churches, and in order to have access to competent doctors
and well-equipped hospitals. The craving for a more fully developed social life than many rural
districts afford, has been an additional cause of the cityward drift. Unfortunately, the glamour
of urban life, with its spectacles and its artificial pleasures, has also been a factor in
the movement away from the country.

295. WHEREIN THE CITYWARD DRIFT IS DESIRABLE.--In some respects the cityward drift is a desirable
development. When laborers who are no longer needed on the farms move cityward, the cityward
drift may have the beneficial effect of removing such laborers to where they can find employment.
It should also be remembered that successful rural life requires qualities which may be lacking
in many individuals born and raised in the country. In so far as the cityward drift is composed
of such individuals, it may be a helpful movement, since individuals unsuited to rural life
may find themselves adapted to some type of urban life. When unneeded and unhelpful individuals
are removed from the country, the rural population may be more efficient and more prosperous,
even though relatively more sparse.

296. WHEREIN THE CITYWARD DRIFT IS UNDESIRABLE.--In so far as the cityward drift brings to
the city individuals unsuited to urban conditions, the movement away from the country may be
undesirable. It is certainly undesirable when the individuals in question are really suited
to rural life. The tendency of young people to move to the cities may ultimately deprive the
country of its natural leaders. Certainly the colleges and factories of the cities often drain
the country of its most able and ambitious boys and girls. The cityward migration of such persons
may strengthen the urban population, but it weakens rural society and retards the progress
of rural institutions.

297. STATUS OF THE "BACK TO THE LAND" MOVEMENT.--Some reformers have sought to offset the cityward
drift by an artificial "back to the land" movement. In so far as it would bring to the country
persons really able to contribute to rural life, this movement is a desirable one. In so far
as it would bring to the country persons unprepared or unable to adapt themselves to rural
conditions, such a movement is injurious. On the basis of the data now available, we are warranted
in concluding that the "back to the land" movement is founded upon sentiment and caprice rather
than upon sound principles. It attacks the rural problem at the wrong end. If the natural leaders
of the country are repelled by rural life and attracted by urban conditions, the remedy is
not to create an artificial movement toward the country, but rather to make rural life so attractive
that country boys and girls will prefer it to city life. The chief question before us is this:
How can the country be made so attractive that individuals interested in, and suited to, rural
life may be encouraged to lend themselves to its fullest development? Let us see what is being
done toward answering this question.

298. HOW THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS HELPING TO MAKE RURAL LIFE ATTRACTIVE.--The material prosperity
of the American farmer is due, in considerable part, to the activities of the Federal government.
For more than a half century the Department of Agriculture has systematically encouraged various
phases of agricultural industry. The Department conducts investigations and experiments designed
to give farmers helpful information concerning soils, grains, fruits, and live stock. It distributes
seeds gratuitously, and attempts to encourage scientific methods among farmers. The Department
issues a Year-book, a Monthly Weather Review, a Crop Reporter, and a series of Farmers' Bulletins.
Among the more important subdivisions of the department are the bureau of animal industry,
the bureau of soils, the bureau of markets, and the office of farm management. The work of
the Department of Agriculture is ably supplemented by the work of the Reclamation Bureau, which,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, is increasing the productivity of waste
and arid lands.

299. THE FEDERAL FARM LOAN ACT.--The growing need of credit facilities among farmers resulted
in 1916 in the passage of the Federal Farm Loan Act. By the terms of this act, the United States
is divided into twelve districts, in each of which a Federal land bank is established. A Federal
Farm Loan Board has general charge of the entire system, but each Farm Loan Bank is allowed
a large measure of freedom in its own district in the organization of local Farm Loan Associations.
A local association is made up of a number of farm owners, or persons about to become owners,
who desire to borrow money. The Bank will not deal with the individual farmer except through
the local association, but when a farmer has been vouched for by this association, he may receive
from the Bank of his district a loan at not more than six per cent interest. The Bank authorizes
loans for the purchase or improvement of land, for the purchase of live stock, and for the
erection of farm buildings. Loans must be secured by first mortgages not exceeding in amount
fifty per cent of the assessed value of the land and twenty per cent of the value of the improvements
thereon pledged as security. Loans may run from five to forty years, and provision is made
for the gradual payment, in small sums, of both principal and interest.

300. MARKETING NEEDS OF THE FARMER.--A problem vitally affecting not only the farmer but the
urban consumer as well, has to do with the marketing of farm produce. The price of farm produce
often doubles or trebles between the farm and the urban kitchen. This is largely because of
a cumbersome marketing system and an overabundance of middlemen. Often the farmer gets entirely
too little for his produce, while the city housewife pays too much for it. If the farmer is
to secure a larger return for his labor, and if the cost of foodstuffs in cities is to be reduced,
we must devise more efficient methods of marketing farm produce.

There is a general agreement among experts that in the marketing of farm produce there ought
to be some method of securing the coöperation of farmer, urban consumer, and government. The
further improvement of country roads, together with the development of trolleys, motor trucking
and other means of farm-to-city transport would reduce haulage charges. The number of public
markets in cities should be increased, so that farm produce might be sold to consumers without
the interference of unnecessary middlemen. The grading and standardization of farm products
would also facilitate sale by making it unnecessary for prospective purchasers minutely to
examine goods offered by the farmers. In some cases farmers might advantageously sell their
produce directly to urban consumers. The coöperative marketing of farm produce, also has the
effect of reducing the number of middlemen. [Footnote: See Chapter XII, Section 116.]

One of the most important phases of marketing reform is the regulation of commission dealers.
Many farmers commonly ship their produce to commission dealers in the city. These dealers are
supposed to sell this produce and to return to the farmer the money thus secured, minus a small
commission. In many instances these middlemen return to the farmer smaller sums than market
conditions entitle the farmer to. At the same time, commission dealers often add an excessive
amount to the price which they in turn ask of retailers and consumers. In a few states commission
dealers handling farm produce must now be licensed. They are obliged to keep records which
will enable an inspector to tell whether or not they have made false returns to farmers concerning
the condition of goods on arrival, the time at which sold, and the price secured. A dealer
convicted of dishonest methods loses his license. The future should see an extension of this
licensing system.

301. OTHER ECONOMIC NEEDS OF THE FARMER.--The economic position of the farmer has been materially
strengthened within the last forty years, yet much remains to be done before farming may be
considered an altogether satisfactory and attractive occupation. Tenancy in rural districts
needs to be studied carefully. Tenancy is not necessarily an evil, especially where it is a
step toward ownership, but its rapid increase in this country has caused many serious problems
to arise. From both the economic and the social point of view it is desirable that farmers
own their land. Tenants have no permanent interest in the upkeep of the farm or in the rural
community. Where tenancy is widespread, land and buildings deteriorate, and the development
of rural institutions is slow.

Machinery is shortening the hours of labor for the farmer, and scientific farming is increasing
his efficiency; nevertheless, in most sections of the country rural life still means long hours
of hard labor for small returns. Many farmers still work ten hours a day in winter, twelve
in summer, and from thirteen to fifteen in the harvest season. Despite this sustained effort,
the perishable character of his product, the uncertainty of weather conditions, and his dependence
upon commission dealers, too often jeopardize the returns to the farmer.

302. RURAL HEALTH.--We have noticed that in some cases people have moved to the city because
in the country doctors tend to be both scarce and poorly trained, while frequently hospitals
are inaccessible.

Recently a number of influences are counteracting this relative backwardness. The isolation
of the rural dweller is disappearing before the automobile and the telephone. In many sections
able doctors are increasingly plentiful. In most rural districts which are near large cities,
there is now an efficient system of visiting nurses, free clinics, and health bulletins. Health
campaigns are spreading the fundamental principles of sanitation into many of the outlying
districts also.

But these measures, while helpful, are only a beginning. In the more isolated rural sections
especially, ignorance of sanitary methods is still a serious evil. Many rural dwellers still
rely upon traditional but ineffective remedies for common complaints. Quacks having nostrums
and injurious patent medicines to sell often prey upon rural communities in which there is
no adequate provision for doctors, nurses, and hospitals. Rural diet is often so heavy as to
encourage stomach disorders. Farmhouses are in many cases poorly ventilated in summer and overheated
in winter. Stables and stock pens are invariably so close to the farmhouse as to render difficult
the protection of the dwelling against flies and mosquitoes.

303. THE RURAL SCHOOL.--The chief educational institution in rural districts has long been
the small district school, inadequately supported and often inefficiently conducted.

But recently rural education has shown many signs of improvement. In most sections of the country
the development of farm machinery has so reduced the amount of manual labor on the farm that
rural children are enabled to remain in school for a longer period than formerly. The district
school is in many cases being supplanted by the consolidated school. Under the consolidation
plan, a single large and well-equipped school-house takes the place of a number of separate,
small schools, indifferently equipped. When consolidation is accompanied by improved means
of transporting children to school, the advantages of the plan are numerous. Because consolidation
is a more economical arrangement than the old district plan, it allows larger salaries to be
offered. This in turn allows the rural school to secure a higher grade of teacher. The trained
educator is also attracted by the fact that the consolidation of rural schools allows curricula
to be standardized and enlarged. Scientific agriculture and allied subjects are slowly finding
their way into the rural grade school. The rural high school is beginning to appear.

In some sections of the country, on the other hand, the rural school is still in an unsatisfactory
condition. In a number of states the rural school needs a more intelligent and consistent support
from the taxpayers, in order that better teachers, more and better schoolhouses, and better
working equipment may be provided. In many sections of the country there is very little understanding
of the advantages of school consolidation and the necessity of more adequate rural education.
It is desirable that rural schools be more closely correlated with the admirable work being
done by experiment stations and agricultural colleges. The agricultural press might well coöperate
with the rural schools in attacking the problems of country life. Without doubt the rural school
curriculum should place more emphasis upon practical agriculture and other subjects which will
demonstrate the dignity and attractiveness of rural life. Finally, it is desirable that an
increasing use be made of the schoolhouse as a social center.

304. THE RURAL CHURCH.--The rural church, though an older institution than the rural school,
is advancing less rapidly. In many sections the cityward drift has drained the able ministers
to the city, leaving inferior men to carry on the work of the rural church. Other rural sections
have never had the benefit of an able clergy. In every part of the country it often happens
that country ministers are not only inadequately trained, but are uninterested in rural problems.

One of the greatest needs of the American farming community, therefore, is for a vitalized
church. In many places rural districts are overchurched, and there is great need of some such
consolidation as has been developed among rural schools. This development would so decrease
the number of ministers needed that higher salaries could be offered. This, in turn, would
attract more highly trained ministers to the country. It is also desirable that rural ministers
be trained to a keener appreciation of the economic and social problems of the country, with
a view to making religion a practical help in solving the problems of everyday life. An efficient
and vitalized church could advantageously be used as a focal point for the development of every
phase of rural community life.

305. ISOLATION THE MENACE OF RURAL LIFE.--Isolation may be said to be the menace of rural life,
as congestion is the menace of urban life. In many out-of-the-way rural districts isolation
has resulted in moral inertia and intellectual dullness. Isolation has weighed particularly
hard upon the farmer's wife. Often she is called upon, not only to rear a large family, but
to cook and keep house for hired men, raise poultry and garden stuff, and even to help in the
fields during the harvest season. In spite of this deadening routine, she has had fewer chances
than the farmer to go to town, to meet people, or otherwise to secure a share of social life.

306. COMMUNITY SPIRIT IN THE COUNTRY.--In view of the injurious effects of rural isolation,
it is encouraging to note the beginnings of a genuine community spirit in country districts.
To a considerable extent this development is the result of improved means of transportation
and communication. The coming of the automobile, the telephone, and the trolley, the development
of the rural free delivery, the parcel post, and the agricultural press,--all these factors
have been important. The farmer has been enabled to share more and more in the benefits of
city life without leaving the farm. Even more important, perhaps, improved methods of transportation
and communication have stimulated social intercourse among farmers. Coöperation in church and
school work has been encouraged. Clubs and community centers are more practicable where farmers
make use of the automobile and the telephone. The fair and the festival are also proving to
be admirable methods of developing the coöperative spirit in rural life.

The growing realization among students of rural life that a strong and constructive community
spirit is not only desirable but possible, is encouraging an interest in rural problems. The
development of such a spirit must ultimately stimulate a healthy social life in the country,
with a resultant increase in health and prosperity, not only for the farmer but for the nation
as a whole.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What is the significance of rural life?

2. What is the nature of the rural problem?

3. Why is the rural problem of recent origin?

4. What is meant by the cityward drift?

5. To what extent is this drift desirable? To what extent is it undesirable?

6. What can be said as to the "back to the land" movement?

7. How does the Department of Agriculture help the farmer?

8. What is the object of the Federal Farm Loan Act?

9. Why is the marketing of farm products a problem?

10. What are some suggestions for solving this problem?

11. Discuss the recent improvement in rural health.

12. In what way is rural health still in an unsatisfactory condition?

13. What is the purpose of consolidating the rural schools?

14. What can be said as to the condition of the rural church?

15. What is the effect of isolation upon farm life?

16. What has been the effect of improved means of transportation and communication upon community
spirit in rural districts?

Or all of the following:

2. Butterfield, The Farmer and the New Day, chapter iii.

3. Carney, Country Life and the Country School, chapter i.

4. Carver, Rural Economics, chapter vi.

5. Ely, Principles of Economics, chapter xxxix.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. In what way is the rural problem threefold? (Butterfield, pages 30- 31)

2. What changes have taken place since 1850 with regard to the size of American farms? (Ely,
pages 596-603.)

3. What problem arises in connection with the control of land in this country? (Butterfield,
pages 40-41.)

4. Is absentee landlordism a danger in American rural life? (Ely, page 605.)

5. How could farm management in this country be improved? (Butterfield, pages 42-45.)

6. Discuss coöperation among Danish farmers. (Carver, pages 357-358.)

7. Discuss agricultural credit in Europe. (Ely, pages 611-613.)

8. In what way is rural local government a problem? (Butterfield, page 47.)

9. Name an important defect of the rural church. (Carver, pages 343- 344.)

10. What are the chief organizations which are aiding in the reconstruction of the rural community?
(Carney, page 13.)

11. What is the importance of community building in the country? (Carney, pages 9-10.)

12. What is the importance of federating all of the social organizations of a rural community?
(Carney, page 16.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Nature of the cityward drift in your section.

2. Extent to which there is a "back to the land" movement in your section.

3. Work of the Federal Farm Loan Bank of your district. If possible, interview a farmer as
to the advantages and disadvantages of the Federal Farm Loan system.

4. Work of the agricultural college in your state.

5. Use of the automobile by farmers in your locality.

6. Food markets in your neighborhood.

7. Draw up a program for reducing the cost of food distribution in your section. (Consult King,
Lower Living Costs in Cities, chapter xiii.)

II

8. Transportation in rural districts. (Vogt, Introduction to Rural Sociology, chapter iv; Gillette,
Constructive Rural Sociology, chapter ix; Waugh, Rural Improvement, chapter iii.)

9. The marketing of farm products. (Weld, The Marketing of Farm Products; Annals, vol. xlviii,
pages 91-238; King, Lower Living Costs in Cities, chapter x; Harris, Coöperation, the Hope
of the Consumer, chapter iii.)

10. Tenancy. (Annals, vol. xl, pages 29-40; Vogt, Introduction to Rural Sociology, chapter v.)

11. Rural hygiene. (Ogden, Rural Hygiene; Gillette, Constructive Rural Sociology, chapter xi;
Vogt, Introduction to Rural Sociology, chapters vii and viii.)

12. Immigrant communities in the country. (Annals, vol. xl, pages 69-80.)

13. Rural housing. (Annals, vol. li, pages 110-116; Waugh, Rural Improvement, chapter x.)

14. The country town. (Anderson, The Country Town.)

15. The rural school. (Bailey, The Training of Farmers, pages 173- 194; Vogt, Introduction
to Rural Sociology, chapter xv; Galpin, Rural Life, chapter vii; King, Education for Social
Efficiency, chapters iii and iv; Butterfield, The Farmer and the New Day, chapter vii.)

16. The country church. (Butterfield, The Country Church and the Rural Problem; Gill and Pinchot,
The Country Church; Carney, Country Life and the Country School, chapter iii; Gillette, Constructive
Rural Sociology, chapter xv; Vogt, Introduction to Rural Sociology, chapters xvii and xviii;
Galpin, Rural Life, chapter xi; Annals, vol. xl, pages 131-139.)

17. The Grange. (Carney, Country Life and the Country School, chapter iv.)

18. The farmer in politics. (Vogt, Introduction to Rural Sociology, chapter xii.)

19. Clubs and organizations in rural districts. (Gillette, Constructive Rural Sociology, chapter
xiii; Waugh, Rural Improvement, chapter v; Galpin, Rural Life, chapters viii, x; Vogt, Introduction
to Rural Sociology, chapter xiv; Annals, vol. xl, pages 175-190.)

20. The Country Life movement. (Bailey, The Country Life Movement in the United States; Carney,
Country Life and the Country School, chapter xiii; Gillette, Constructive Rural Sociology,
chapter viii.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

21. The relative advantages of life in the city and life in the country.

22. Should immigrants be encouraged to settle in rural districts?

23. Advantages and disadvantages of tenancy from the standpoint of the rural community.

24. To what extent should country people copy the social institutions of the city rather than
develop institutions of their own?

CHAPTER XXVI

EDUCATION

307. THE MEANING OF EDUCATION.--A half century ago education might have been defined as the
process of acquiring certain types of book knowledge which contributed to the culture of the
individual. More recently the concept of education has been broadened and deepened. Present-day
education aims not only to add to the culture of the individual, but to vitalize the community
as well. Education is no longer limited to the schoolroom, but includes all agencies and activities
which in any way help toward a fuller and more responsible citizenship. Education is no longer
confined to infancy and youth, but is a life-long process. Our educational system no longer
assumes that the needs and capacities of all pupils are similar, but attempts so to diversify
training that each individual will be enabled to develop his peculiar powers and to contribute
to American life in the manner best suited to his individual ability. Taken in its widest sense,
education has seven great objectives. These are health, command of fundamental processes (such
as reading, writing, and arithmetic), worthy home- membership, vocation, citizenship, worthy
use of leisure, and ethical character. [Footnote: These objectives have been formulated by
the National Commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education.]

308. EDUCATION AND DEMOCRACY.--Two centuries ago the education of the masses was politically
a matter of small concern, for most governments were conducted by a narrowly restricted class.
But in a democracy education is fundamental. The idea that the masses should govern themselves
is an appealing one, but before self-government is safe a comprehensive educational system
must have made substantial inroads upon illiteracy and ignorance. Not only must the citizen
of a democracy be individually capable, but his capacity to coöperate with his fellows must
be large. Under an undemocratic government the people rely upon their rulers; in a democracy
they must rely upon their own joint efforts. From both an individual and a social standpoint,
therefore, democracy demands more of its educational system than does any other form of government.

309. DEVELOPMENT OF EDUCATION IN THE UNITED STATES.--Education was an important concern in
most of the American colonies, and especially so in New England. After 1800 the common school
system was extended rapidly, the district school passing westward with the pioneer movement.
Educational facilities continued to expand and to diversify until at the end of the Civil War
period there were more than seven million children in the elementary schools of this country.
The period following the Civil War also saw the beginnings of the high school, a characteristic
American educational institution which arose to take the place of the older Latin grammar schools
and the private academies. Normal schools for the training of teachers, and colleges and universities
for higher education, developed rapidly after 1880. Today there are more than three quarters
of a million teachers in the United States, instructing more than 25,000,000 students in institutions
ranging from kindergarten and elementary schools to colleges and universities.

310. MERITS OF OUR EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM.--The merits of our educational system are of great significance.
We are definitely committed to the ideal of an educated citizenry. It has been the policy of
the several states to establish and maintain free public schools. School attendance is compulsory,
on full or part time, for children up to a certain age, the age varying from state to state.
No public school is sectarian, the freedom of religious thought and action guaranteed by the
Federal Constitution having been continued into our public school system. The public schools
stimulate democratic tendencies by bringing together large masses of children from all walks
of life. Our school system likewise has an Americanizing influence upon a large number of foreigners
because their children study in our public schools and then carry into their homes the influence
of the school. Within the last quarter of a century our schools have greatly extended their
functions, becoming, in many cases, genuine community centers.

311. FINANCIANG THE SCHOOLS.--The substantial advances made in American education during the
last century are a cause for congratulation. At the same time, our standards of education are
rising so rapidly that a number of educational problems are becoming acute.

An important problem has to do with the financial support of our rapidly expanding school system.
In many states the schools are inadequately supported by the tax payers. In some of these states
the public schools are not readily accessible to large numbers of children, while in the schools
that are accessible the equipment is often inadequate to the demands made upon it. In many
states teachers still receive insufficient salaries.

Our schools ought not to suffer from lack of funds. Ours is the richest country in the world,
and our school system is one of the most vital and fundamental of our institutions. Often the
failure of taxpayers properly to support the schools is due to either or both of the following
causes: First, failure to appreciate the importance of education; second, the lack of accessible
wealth as a basis of taxation. The first objection must be met by so perfecting our educational
system that taxpayers will be convinced that money invested in schools means large profits
in the form of a more efficient and prosperous citizenship. The second objection calls for
the reform of our taxation system.

312. CONTROL OF EDUCATION IN THE UNITED STATES.--In the United States education is a state
rather than a national function. There is no Federal administration of schools, each state
having its independent system. Each state has a system of elementary education, and nearly
every state has a secondary or high school system. Nearly all of the states also have state
universities in which instruction is either free or is available at a nominal charge. The public
schools are supported chiefly by local taxes and are controlled mainly by the local authorities.
In most states local outlays are supplemented, to a greater or less degree, by state contributions.
State support is almost always accompanied by a measure of state control, though the extent
of this control varies widely among the several states.

313. THE QUESTION OF UNIFORM STANDARDS.--To what extent should there be uniformity within our
school system? We have no national system of education, and the lack of coördination between
the educational systems of the several states has many undesirable features. Educational standards
vary widely from state to state, and often from county to county within the same state. The
confusion growing out of this situation has given rise to the demand for the systematization
or standardization of our school facilities.

The question is a difficult one. Most authorities believe that education ought not to be centralized
under the Federal government, but ought, rather, to remain a state function. But even though
it is not desirable to allow the Federal government to take over the chief educational powers
of the state, it is believed by many that some national agency might render valuable service
in coördinating the educational programs of the several states. At present many educators feel
that the Federal government should insist upon minimum standards in education in the various
states of the Union.

Standardization within each state is considered desirable by most authorities. All of the educational
facilities of a given commonwealth probably ought to be coördinated under some supervising
state agency. The administrative ideal in state education is so to systematize the schools
of the state that they will be bound together by a common purpose, guided by the same set of
established principles, and directed toward the same social ends.

314. SCHOOL ATTENDANCE.--A serious defect of our educational system arises in connection with
school attendance. In many states the school attendance laws are laxly enforced. It is claimed
that at no one time is more than three fourths of our school population enrolled in the schools.
Of those who do comply with the school attendance laws, there is a considerable percentage
which cannot acquire an adequate education within the limits of the compulsory school period.
Only about one third of the pupils who enter the first year of the elementary school reach
the four-year high school, and only about one in nine is graduated. Of those who enter high
school, about one third leave before the beginning of the second year, about one half are gone
before the beginning of the third year, and fewer than one third are graduated.

Within the last decade there has been a marked tendency among the several states to enforce
school attendance laws more strictly. No less encouraging is the growing belief among educators
that the school attendance period ought so to be adjusted that every child will be guaranteed
the working essentials of an education. There is grave doubt as to the wisdom of raising the
minimum age at which children may withdraw from school, but at least greater efforts ought
to be made to keep children in school at least for part-time schooling beyond the present compulsory
period. As will be pointed out presently, much is already being done in this direction.

315. EDUCATION AS PREPARATION FOR DAILIY LIFE.--It is sometimes said that our educational system
neglects practical activities for subjects that have no immediate connection with the problems
of daily life. Many citizens have thoughtlessly condemned the whole program of education because
they have observed that particular schools have allowed pupils to go forth with a fund of miscellaneous
knowledge which neither helps them to get a better living, nor aids them in performing the
duties of citizenship. On the basis of these and allied considerations, there is a growing
demand that education be made more "practical."

There is much to be said for and against this attitude. Some enthusiasts are apparently carrying
the demand for "practical" education too far. The growing importance in our industrial life
of efficiency and practical training should not blind us to the fact that education is cultural
as well as occupational or vocational. The education of an individual is not estimated alone
by the degree to which he succeeds in practical affairs, but as well by the extent to which
he shows evidence of training in the appreciation of moral, artistic, and literary values.
It is sometimes difficult to see that the study of literature, ancient languages, and similar
subjects is preparation for life, and yet wise training in these fields may prove as important
as studies which aid more directly and immediately in getting a living.

On the other hand, our educational system must take note of the growing importance of industrial
activities. Since education is preparation for life, the school must accommodate itself to
the changes which are now taking place in our economic and social organization. As modern society
becomes more complex, more tinged with industrial elements, more a matter of coöperation and
interdependence, education must become more highly evolved, more attentive to vocational needs,
and more emphatic in the stress which it lays upon the actual duties of citizenship.

The more complex the needs of daily life, therefore, the greater the necessity of shifting
emphasis in education. But in thus shifting the emphasis in education we must be careful not
to disturb the balance between cultural and "practical" subjects. To discriminate between what
should be taught and what should be omitted from the curriculum, to retain the finest elements
of our cultural studies, but at the same time to fit our citizens to meet the demands of office,
shop, and factory,--these are the tasks of the educator.

316. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.--Vocational training is one of the most significant developments
in modern education. This type of education is designed to train the young person to earn a
good living in that branch of work for which he seems best fitted. Some of the supporters of
vocational education believe that this specialized form of training ought to be commenced very
early and in connection with the regular curriculum. Others think that vocational education
should not be attempted until the child has been given enough generalized training to enable
him properly to perform the fundamental duties of citizenship.

But whatever its relation to the curriculum, vocational education is of great significance.
If combined with vocational guidance it not only prevents the boy or girl from aimlessly drifting
into an unskilled occupation, but it singles out for special attention children who show special
aptitude for particular trades and professions. Vocational education for the blind, the deaf,
the crippled, and the otherwise disabled is social service of the finest and most constructive
type.

317. FEDERAL ENCOURAGEMENT OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION.--In February, 1917, Congress passed the
Smith-Hughes Act, establishing a Federal Board for Vocational Education. This board promotes
vocational education in coöperation with the several states, and administers the Federal aid
granted to the states under the Act. Each state accepting the provisions of the Act must provide
a state board to control a system of vocational schools. Evening, part-time, and continuation
schools offer instruction in agriculture, industry, commerce, transportation, and the professions.
Each state must also agree to appropriate, either through the state or locally, an amount of
money for teachers' salaries, equivalent to the sum received from the Federal board. Such states
must also agree to provide proper buildings and meet the running expenses of the system. In
the first year under this Act, the Federal appropriations amounted to more than a million and
a half dollars. This sum is to be increased annually until the year 1925-1926, when the states
will receive $7,000,000 from the Federal government in support of vocational education.

318. LIMITATIONS OF THE CONVENTIONAL SCHOOL TERM.--A few decades ago, the typical school in
an American city offered instruction to certain classes of young people between nine o'clock
in the morning and three or four o'clock in the afternoon, for from 150 to 180 days a year.
During the rest of the time the schoolhouse was idle.

This policy greatly restricted the education of important groups of people. Adult immigrants
were barred from the elementary public schools. Persons desiring educational guidance in special
fields often found that the school offered them no help. Cripples, men and women employed in
the daytime, and other individuals who found it impossible or inconvenient to attend school
during the conventional time limits, were restricted in educational opportunity. Many boys
and girls who drop out of school because of the necessity of going to work, do so before their
education has been completed. For most of these classes, the inability to take advantage of
the regular school term has meant the denial of adequate education.

319. WIDER USE OF THE SCHOOL PLANT.--Recently the "wider use of the school plant" movement
is helping these classes to secure or continue their education. For unassimilated immigrants,
day and evening courses in citizenship are now provided in many cities and towns. In many cities
vacation schools have been established for the convenience of children who have failed in their
studies, or who are able and willing to make unusual progress in various subjects. For those
who work by day there is often a chance to go to school by night. For those who find it inexpedient
to leave their homes, there are, in many places, travelling libraries and correspondence courses.
In some western states the farmer now has an opportunity of taking extension courses from the
State university during those seasons in which his work is lightest. For pupils who are under
the necessity of partially or entirely supporting themselves, some cities now have part-time
or all- around-the-year schools.

320. THE SCHOOL AS A SOCIAL CENTER.--Closely associated with the movement to extend school
facilities to those who would ordinarily be debarred from them, is the movement toward making
the school a social center. Many city and some rural schools now provide free to the general
public lectures on science, art, literature, and business. Moving pictures, dramatics, and
other forms of entertainment are becoming a regular feature of this type of school work. In
many schools the gymnasiums are available to the public under reasonable restrictions. Folk
singing and dancing are being encouraged in numerous schools. Schoolrooms devoted by day to
regular school courses are in many places being used during the evening for the discussion
of public questions. In these and other ways the school is becoming a center of life for the
community. It is extending into the homes of the people and is becoming the instrument of the
community rather than of a particular group.

321. EDUCATION AND SOCIAL PROGRESS.--We may sum up the problems so far discussed in this text
by noting that their solution calls for three different types of treatment.

First, we must strike at the root of poverty by giving every individual just what he earns,
by making it possible for every individual to earn enough to support himself and his family
decently, and by teaching him to spend his income wisely and economically.

Second, wise and careful laws must be passed for the purpose of correcting and lessening the
social defects of American democracy.

Third, education must be relied upon to render the individual able and willing to do his duty
toward himself and his country. The boys and girls of to-day are the voters and home-makers
of to-morrow, and the responsibility of preparing those boys and girls for the efficient conduct
of community life rests almost entirely upon the school. Thus education is one of the most
basic factors in social progress. Neither a reorganized economic system, nor the most carefully
drawn laws on social questions will solve the problems of American democracy until the individual
citizen is trained to a proper appreciation of his responsibilities toward himself and toward
his country.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What is the scope of education?

2. What is the relation of education to democracy?

3. Trace briefly the development of education in this country.

4. Enumerate the chief merits of our educational system.

5. What problem arises in connection with financing the schools?

6. Explain the failure of some taxpayers properly to support the schools.

7. Discuss the control of education in this country.

8. Outline the problem of uniform educational standards.

9. To what extent is school attendance a problem?

10. What are the chief tasks of the educator?

11. Discuss the purpose of vocational education.

12. What is the nature of the Smith-Hughes act?

13. What are the limitations of the conventional school term?

14. What is meant by the "wider use of the school plant" movement?

15. To what extent is the school becoming a social center?

16. What is the relation of education to social progress? Or all of the following:

2. Cubberley, Changing Conceptions of Education, all.

3. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter xviii.

4. McMurry, How to Study, part i.

5. Perry, Wider Use of the School Plant, chapter i.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Discuss briefly the progress made in education since the Civil War. (Cubberley, pages 38-42.)

2. Name an important defect of our educational system as it existed in the eighties. (Perry,
page 3.)

3. Discuss the development of the high school. (Guitteau, pages 174- 175.)

4. To what extent does the Federal government aid State education? (Guitteau, page 176.)

5. Compare briefly the four types of school administration. (Guitteau pages 177-180.)

6. What are the chief sources of school revenues? (Guitteau, pages 182-183.)

7. What has been the effect of immigration upon our educational system? (Cubberley, pages 14-15.)

8. What is the function of the vacation school? (Perry, pages 6-7.)

9. What is meant by the problem of leisure time? (Cubberley, page 20.)

10. Outline briefly the present tendencies in education. (Cubberley, pages 49-69-)

11. Outline the principal factors in study. (McMurry, pages 15-23.)

TOPICS FOR INVERSTGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Trace the development of public school education in your state.

2. Classify the types of schools in your state.

3. Draw up a list of the more important provisions in your state constitution regarding education.

4. Sources of school revenues in your community.

5. State supervision of the public schools in your commonwealth.

6. Influence of the Smith-Hughes act upon education in your state.

7. Use of the school as a social center in your community.

8. The meaning of education. (Butler, The Meaning of Education; Henderson, What is it to be
Educated? Hadley, The Education of the American Citizen; Baldwin, The Relation of Education
to Citizenship.)

9. The beginnings of American education. (Cubberley, Public Education in the United States,
chapter ii.)

10. The reorganization of elementary education. (Cubberley, Public Education in the United
States, chapter x.)

11. Education through play. (Curtis, Education through Play.)

12. The use of leisure time. (Annals, vol. lxvii, pages 115-122.)

13. Wider use of the school plant. (Cubberley, Public Education in the United States, chapter
xiii; Annals, vol. lxvii, pages 170-202. Perry, Wider Use of the School Plant.)

14. The relation of the school to the community. (Dewey, Schools of To-morrow, chapter vii.)

15. Physical education. (Sargent, Physical Education.)

16. The education of Helen Keller. (Keller, The Story of My Life. See also an encyclopedia.)

17. The education of the crippled child. (Hall and Buck, Handicrafts for the Handicapped.)

18. Education for efficiency. (Eliot, Education for Efficiency; Davenport, Education for Efficiency.)

19. Vocational education. (Taylor, A Handbook of Vocational Guidance; Bloomfield, The Vocational
Guidance of Youth; Leake, Industrial Education, Its Problems, Methods and Danger.)

20. Choosing a vocation. (Parsons, Choosing a Vocation.)

21. The United States Bureau of Education and the immigrant; (Annals, vol. lxvii, pages 273-283.)

22. Education and social progress. (Ellwood, Sociology and Modern Social Problems, chapter xvi.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

23. Do grammar school graduates who fail to enter high school stop their education at this
point because of poverty, because of the attraction of industry, or because of dissatisfaction
with school?

24. The question of free text books.

25. The question of uniform text books throughout your state.

26. At what point in the school curriculum should vocational education be begun?

27 How are ancient languages, ancient history and the fine arts helpful in daily life?

28. The question of a more intensive use of your school building as a social center. NECESSITY
OF PUBLIC INTEREST IN BUSINESS.--Although individuals carry on business primarily for their
own ends, the economic activities of men affect not only themselves, but the community as well.
If every individual voluntarily confined his attention to those forms of business which strengthened
the community as well as adding to his own prosperity, there would be little need for laws
regulating the conduct of business. But because experience has shown that some persons will
seek to benefit themselves in ways that react to the injury of the community, it becomes necessary
for law to adjust private and public interests. A community cannot remain indifferent to the
economic activities of its citizens. Public interest in business is a fundamental necessity,
if the community is to be safeguarded against the abuses of free enterprise.

323. NATURE OF PUBLIC INTEREST IN BUSINESS.--In general, the object of laws regulating business
is either to encourage helpful business methods, or to discourage harmful business methods.
A good deal of legislation has been designed positively to encourage helpful business methods,
yet it remains true that the most significant of our industrial laws have been aimed primarily
at the discouragement of harmful business. A fundamental American ideal is to insure to the
individual as much freedom of action as is consistent with the public interest. Thus we believe
that if harmful business is controlled or suppressed, private initiative may be trusted to
develop helpful business methods, without the aid of fostering legislation. In this and the
following chapter, therefore, we may confine our attention to legislation designed to suppress
harmful business methods.

324. THE NATURE OF MONOPOLY.--We may begin the discussion by inquiring into the nature and
significance of monopoly.

Under openly competitive conditions the free play of supply and demand between a number of
producers and a number of prospective consumers fixes the price of a commodity. In such cases
consumers are protected against exorbitant prices by the fact that rival producers will underbid
each other in the effort to sell their goods.

But if the supply of a good, say wheat, is not in the hands of several rival producers, but
is under the control of a unified group of persons, competition between the owners of the wheat
is suppressed sufficiently to enable this unified group more nearly to dictate the price for
which wheat shall sell. In such a case a monopoly is said to exist. Complete control of the
supply of a commodity is rare, even for short periods, but modern business offers many instances
of enterprises which are more or less monopolistic in character.

The essential danger of monopoly is that those who have secured control of the available supply
of a commodity will use that control to benefit themselves at the expense of the public. By
combining their individual businesses, producers who were formerly rivals may secure the chief
advantage of large-scale management. That is to say, the cost of production per unit may be
decreased, because several combined plants might be operated more economically than several
independent concerns. If the cost of production is decreased the combining producers can afford
to lower the price of their product. But if they are practically in control of the entire supply,
they will not lower the price unless it serves their interests to do so. Indeed it is more
likely that they will take advantage of their monopoly to raise the price.

325. TYPES OF MONOPOLY.--Monopolies are variously classified, but for our purpose they may
be called either natural or unnatural.

