#27.# The pupil should approach the recitation willingly and gladly. The pupil who is in class
against his will is a difficult pupil to teach, and it is doubtful whether or not any lasting
good results from enforced attendance. Parents should not overlook this fact, and teachers
will find here a hint of unusual significance. This willing, joyous approach to the lesson
is conditioned upon at least four things: (a) the preparation of the lesson by the pupil in
advance; (b) the absence of other appeals more enticing to the interest of the pupils; (c)
the quality of teaching power and skill exercised by the teacher; (d) the spirit of good-will
and of kindly concern that rules the school as a whole.

#28. The Pupil's Preparation.#--From the smaller pupils no formal preparation can be demanded
in advance. But for all, the lesson should be read, either by the pupil or by some one in the
home, prior to the time of the recitation. It is a good plan to indicate briefly the week preceding
just what leading ideas and incidents the pupils should master before the recitation occurs.
There are many indirect acts that the pupil may perform during the week that may fittingly
be regarded as preparation for the lesson; such as visits to the sick, efforts to bring new
members to the class, incidents of the week which made a marked impression for good, and kindred
matters. These can all be touched upon by the teacher by judicious questioning, and in this
way, at the opening of the recitation, lead each pupil to make some statement of a good done.
This will promote the moral atmosphere so vital to successful interpretation of the lesson.

#29. Divided Interests.#--Many times the pupil comes reluctantly to the Sunday-school because
his interests lie for that hour elsewhere. If the parents go on a pleasure trip, it is unfair
to compel the child to forfeit the same opportunity. Wise parents will show the more excellent
way by themselves accompanying their children to the Sunday-school. My own father never led
his boys to the silent recesses of the mountain brooks to see God's wonder world until after
we had returned from the Sunday-school. To enjoy the former we were unconsciously encouraged
to attend the latter. The so-called "liberal" Sabbath is the foe of the Sunday-school, and
all friends of the best things should oppose the lessening of the power that wins childhood
for the Master through regular attendance upon his school.

#30.# When pupils dislike the teacher because he is weak or rude or petulant or unprepared
to teach, it is difficult to keep these pupils in regular attendance. Each teacher should constantly
ask himself, How may I personally add to the attractiveness of the Sunday-school? Careful inquiry
and close supervision of the classes by the superintendent should compel good teaching or a
prompt change of teachers. It is useless to expect pupils to love the Sunday-school well enough
to endure a worthless teacher. How often pupils grow weary in attendance because the teacher
has no power to woo the young spirit to the fountains of love and light! On the other hand,
how gladly and how regularly children turn to the Sunday-school when a great-hearted and warm-spirited
teacher is always there to welcome and to nourish them!

#31.# There is a marvelous attractive power in a well-organized school. When the spirit that
rules in it and the organization that guides it are so wisely fostered as to create in the
school an atmosphere of genuine stimulation the pupil will find it easy to come gladly, to
say with the Psalmist, "I was glad when they said unto me, let us go unto the house of Jehovah."

#32. Reverence.#--In the recitation proper, the pupil should be helped to be reverent, well-behaved,
and actively absorbed in the lesson. He should be shown the gains of complying promptly and
cheerfully with the requests of his teacher; the King's business must be conducted with decency
and dispatch. He should develop a quickening concern for the welfare of his classmates and
foster a wholesome support to the class as an organization. It is not always the lesson taught
but the spirit that rules during the lesson that wins the young spirit to adoration and service.

#33. Regularity and Promptness.#--The early acquisition of the habits of regularity and promptness
in attendance are virtues of no mean moment in the life of the learner. Whatever may be legitimately
done to promote these habits is worthily done. An essential part of the discipline of life
lies in acquiring dependable habits. It is the systematic attendance upon the Sunday-school
that at last leads the pupil to say again, "I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go unto
the house of Jehovah." Some unique and valuable exercise at the opening of the recitation,
occupying but a minute or two of time, will often prove of great value. I have headed this
chapter, "What the pupil should do," because it is not what the pupil thinks, nor what he says,
that is of greatest moment. It is his conduct in the class and his conduct during the week
in home, in school, in play, that tests most directly the value of the teaching he receives.
The focus of teacher concern is not what the pupil learns, but what the pupil does; not thought,
but conduct; not theory, but practise; not ideas, but acts; not ability to answer questions,
but ability to live a clean, sweet, quiet Christian life. All teaching that falls short of
this goal is unworthy teaching. The supreme test of teaching, laid down by the Master, is that
we should do the will of our Father that is in heaven.

Test Questions

1. Whose fault is it, generally, if the pupil fails to do what he ought in the class?

2. What four things help to the pupil's willing approach to the lesson?

3. In what ways may a pupil prepare for the lesson period?

4. How may the pupil be spared a division of interest?

5. What should be the pupil's attitude and bearing during the recitation?

6. What should be the real focus of the teacher's concern about the pupil?

Lesson 5

What Teaching Is

#34. Teaching Defined.#--The Sunday-school teacher as much as any other teacher should understand
clearly what teaching is. Teaching is not telling, and no amount of talking to the pupil can
be considered as teaching. Teaching is not determined by anything that happens outside the
pupil, but by the action of the pupil's soul upon the things that are presented to it through
the senses. Teaching may be defined as causing a human soul to know.

#35.# Everything outside the learner may be considered his teacher. We are taught in the broadest
sense by the spirit of God's universe expressed in terms of order and law. We are taught in
a more restricted sense by our immediate environment, and especially by the people whose lives
come in close contact with our own. In the most restricted sense we are taught by a trained
mind, and this trained mind belongs to a person called a teacher. The process of teaching may
be considered as the act of bringing into the consciousness of the learner the knowledge already
in the consciousness of the teacher. We cannot teach what we do not know. Teaching ends when
the pupil knows all that the teacher knows.

#36. Impression and Expression.#--When I say that I know a certain thing, I mean that my soul
possesses that thing and knows that it possesses it; this is consciousness. The teaching act
completes itself when the learner is able to express in language or otherwise to the satisfaction
of the teacher the facts in consciousness. In other words, the soul is not fully educated until
it has reached the point of expression.

#37.# It will be seen from this that teaching is possible only when the soul is actively seeking
new knowledge. This attempt of the soul to seek new knowledge causes it, for one reason or
another, to focus itself upon some one object of thought to the exclusion of all other objects
of thought. This act is called attention. When the will directs the attention it is called
voluntary attention. When some other agency than the will directs the attention it is called
involuntary attention.

#38. Securing Attention.#--The greatest art in teaching is to secure attention. The highest
form of attention is voluntary attention. The young child does not possess sufficient will-power
to control attention; consequently in the early grades some other agent than a command of the
will must hold attention. This other agent in a general way may be characterized as interest.
In other words, the young child's interests hold his attention, and the thing in which he takes
the greatest interest will easiest attract his attention.

#39.# There are certain well-known principles underlying the interest of the child. First,
his curiosity; second, novelty, or unexpectedness; third, imitativeness; fourth, illustrations
based upon his experience. The teacher cannot be too careful to consider what is of interest
to a child. We cannot measure the interests of a child by the interests of an adult. Here the
study of child nature is the only safe and adequate guidance.

#40. How Knowledge Reaches the Soul.#--There are but five gateways to the soul of a child,
called the senses:--Seeing, hearing, touching, tasting, smelling. There are no other channels
of approach. Whatever increases the breadth of this sense-approach in a subject of study increases
the interest of the learner in that subject. If I tell a child about a ball, I utilize his
sense of hearing; if I show him a ball, at the same time I describe it, I utilize seeing and
hearing; if I hand him a ball, as I describe it, I utilize touching, seeing, and hearing. A
single fact reaching consciousness through the senses and recognized in consciousness is called
a percept or a particular notion. It is sometimes called an idea. The soul in giving expression
to an idea uses a word or some other sign for the idea. Thus words are the signs of ideas.

#41.# When other facts of a similar character reach consciousness, and are identified there
with the first percept, the percept becomes a concept, general notion or general idea, just
as the percept is an individual idea; that is, the percept stands for one object apprehended
in consciousness; the concept stands for a group of similar objects under one name apprehended
in consciousness. All the common nouns are concepts just as all proper nouns are percepts.
For example, in the sentence, "Washington was a brave man," it is plain that "Washington" is
a particular idea or percept and "man" is a general idea or concept.

#42. Judgment and Reasoning.#--The aim of the teacher is, first, to secure clear percepts,
and then rapidly to change these percepts into concepts, which is only another way of saying
that good teaching relates the things in the soul in such a way as to give the child the fewest
possible terms with which to carry the largest possible number of particular facts. Concepts
are the shorthand of the soul's language. When these concepts are compared and their agreement
or disagreement noted the soul is forming judgments. When these judgments are expressed in
language the soul is forming sentences. When these judgments are compared and their agreement
or disagreement noted, the soul is reasoning. Sentences are the signs of judgments or reasons,
just as words are the signs of percepts or concepts. Thus the percept first comes; the percept
grows into the concept; the concept into the judgment; the judgment into reasoning; and these
are the four steps in the process of knowing. They are the tools of thought. Teaching must
be a training in the use of these tools.

#43. Memory# is of little use unless it is simply the power to hold things clearly understood
by the soul. It is not good teaching to burden the memory with masses of things not clearly
perceived and conceived, although it may be at the beginning not at all objectionable to commit
to memory certain great utterances from the Bible and other standard literature, even when
the meaning is not clearly and fully apprehended. But at the earliest time possible these should
be analyzed and the meaning worked into forms of clear knowledge.

#44. Imagination.#--Imagination is the power of the soul to work up into new combinations the
things in memory. Memory keeps things as the soul got them through the senses. The products
of memory have a basis in experience. The products of imagination have no such basis in experience.
Imagination is the creator of new products. It cares not for facts, but works after its own
fancy. It is a more dangerous power because more free. To curb it at the outset is necessary.
To allow it free range is to open the way for statements from the child that often alarm the
parent or teacher. But when once the moral sense is awakened and governs imagination the latter
becomes the agency that creates all art and enriches all life.

#45.# Teaching aims to develop by appropriate exercise all these powers of the soul. What the
pupil learns is not so important as what power he gains in the control and use of his thinking
processes under the guidance of a skilful teacher.

Test Questions

1. What is teaching?

2. When does teaching end?

3. What is consciousness?

4. What marks the completion of the teaching act?

5. What is attention? Voluntary? Involuntary?

6. What will most easily attract the attention of a young child?

7. State four principles underlying the child's interest?

8. Name the gateways to the soul.

9. What is a percept?

10. What is a concept?

11. State the four steps in the process of knowing.

12. When is memory of most use?

13. What is imagination?

Test Questions for Review

Lessons 1 to 5

1. What point of view must the teacher take?

2. Is it true that teachers are "born" not "made"?

3. What does apperception mean?

4. By what means does knowledge enter the soul?

5. What is the teacher's goal?

6. What is the highest art in teaching?

7. What four things help to the pupil's approach to the lesson?

8. What should be the teacher's real concern about the pupil?

9. What is teaching?

10. What is attention? Voluntary? Involuntary?

11. State four principles underlying the child's interest.

12. Name the gateway to the soul.

Lesson 6

What an Educational Principle Is

#46. Laws of the Soul.#--Everything in this world behaves in a certain way under certain conditions.
All the things in God's great, good world operate in harmony with some force or power that
is always present and that always does or causes to be done the same thing. When once we have
discovered this power and stated in a formula how it behaves we have a law. The soul is no
exception to this general statement. It behaves, under similar conditions, in the same way.
When once we have discovered how the soul acts and formulate its methods of action we have
a law of the soul.

#47.# From these laws of the soul we may also learn how to make the soul grow in a certain
desired way. We can also discover the laws in the materials which we use to cause growth in
the soul. These laws become the guide to all good teaching. They are here called educational
laws or principles.

#48. Educational Principles.#--Thus it will be seen that educational principles rest upon the
laws of the soul. They tell us in brief and clear statements what should govern us in teaching
a growing soul. If one turns to any treatise on pedagogy he will find there a statement of
these laws. Of course, these will be found to vary somewhat because no one is quite certain
that the last facts concerning the soul are known.

#49.# But the important thing is not, after all, what one finds in the books, but what one
is finally led to accept as his own guiding principles. It is of the utmost importance that
one should have certain general principles of education as standards by which to test his own
teaching. A ship without a compass sails a no less aimless or dangerous course than does a
teacher without pedagogic guidance. What the compass is to the ship, educational principles
are to the teacher. Thus educational principles aid in achieving the end or purpose of the
educational process; which end is, according to Spencer, "to live completely," or, as we usually
say, to fit each one to live in the exercise of all the power God made it possible for him
to enjoy. To realize this end teaching must proceed according to law.

#50.# The first law to be noted is that #the subject matter presented to a growing soul must
be adapted to the capacity of the learner#. This law is so self-evident that we unconsciously
observe it. We do not give the same kind of lessons to a child in the primary grade that we
should and do give to the pupil in the adult Bible class. The whole significance of graded
exercises is based upon this fundamental principle. This law rests upon the generally accepted
fact that the different powers of the soul change their relative activity during the years
of growth.

#51.# The second principle is equally important: #There is a natural order in which the powers
of the soul should be exercised.# This order is the order of their activity. The earliest power
to become educationally active is sensation, the last is reason, and hence we can phrase this
law in the maxim "from sense to reason." Different writers state the same thing in the following
way: observation before reasoning; the concrete before the abstract; sense knowledge before
thought knowledge; facts before definitions; processes before rules; the particular before
the general; the simple before the complex; from the known to the next related unknown. All
these maxims may be traced to the same law of the soul, and they may all be summed up in the
maxim, teaching must proceed from things to symbols, since the senses deal with things and
reason deals with symbols. No wise teacher will pass this law by until its full significance
is understood. Jesus was a masterful teacher. He observed this law frequently. Note the examples
in the Gospels, using the incident at Jacob's well as an example. Æsop's fables are all built
upon the principle here laid down, as are the numerous fairy tales by the Grimms, Andersen,
and others.

#52.# Since the soul grows only by its own activity a third law arises: #Knowledge can be acquired
only by occasioning the proper activity in the soul of the pupil.# It is always important to
keep in mind that it is not what the teacher thinks and does, but what he causes the pupil
to think and do, that makes for knowledge. The best teaching secures the best mental activity
on the part of the pupil.

#53.# Just what the proper activity is may be seen by a consideration of a fourth principle:
#First presentations of new knowledge must be made objectively in all grades of the school.#
Ideas cannot be taught through words. They can be taught through objects, and the ideas can
then be named. The name is the word. This law may be stated as "ideas before words." It stands
as a protest against abstract and formal teaching. It demands that knowledge shall be fitted
to the nature of the soul's growth. The child that for the first time was shown a growing fern
in a vase and called it "a pot of green feathers" was on the right track. He will in due time
acquire the right word. His idea is clear. It follows also that the only words in which knowledge
can be presented to the soul are words that name known things.

#54.# These and many other principles are the basis of the whole teaching process. Happy that
child whose teacher has thought his way through these essential laws and observes them in all
the activities of the recitation. No teacher can grow in power or skill without mastering the
meaning of these laws, which may be called the alphabet of the teacher's preparation. These
laws the teacher should always have in mind as guidance. They are not to be announced to the
pupil. Jesus always followed great educational principles, but he never announced these to
his disciples. When you say "That is a good lesson," you mean that the lesson is in harmony
with laws of teaching you know to be good. There is no other basis of judging the worth of
a teacher.

Test Questions

1. What is meant by a law of the soul?

2. Why are educational principles needed?

3. What is the first law as to the subject matter of teaching? The second?

4. What is the earliest power that becomes educationally active?

5. What maxim sums up the order in which the soul-powers should be exercised?

6. State the third law of the soul. The fourth. Illustrate.

Lesson 7

What an Educational Method Is

#55. Applying Principles.#--When the teacher puts an educational principle to work in the act
of teaching he uses a method. A method is a principle applied, put into operation. Principles
make up one's educational theory; methods make up one's educational practise. It is as important
to have a good method as it is to have a good law. The way a law is applied is a method. When
we agreed that it would be a good thing to teach scientific temperance to our children we announced
a principle. To apply this led to the use of the school. Teaching in the school the subject
of scientific temperance became a method. We might have chosen the home, the church, or any
other agency.

#56.# One's method is often the test of one's principle. If I say that repetition makes for
clear knowledge I announce a law or principle. The test of the law is the way the soul acts
under repetition. Does the learner gain in clearness of knowledge by repetition? If so, the
law is true. If not, the law is not true.

#57. Kinds of Methods.#--Methods are of two kinds: general and special. A general method may
be followed in teaching all the different subjects that make up a course of study. A special
method is followed in teaching one particular subject or a part of a subject. A device is merely
a temporary resort to some special act to accomplish an immediate result. Methods, general
and special, may be used again and again. A device rarely can be repeated, since the same conditions
may never again arise.

