"Gentle beasts, birds and fishes, you have all heard what this Boy has done, and you would
like him to be treated as he has treated you. We will not abuse Benjy, but I do not think he
is good enough to stay with us. We will tie a tin-kettle to him and chase him from Beastland,
and Mr. Rough shall be our leader."

This was no sooner said than done. The Lion gave one dreadful roar as a signal for the animals
to begin the chase.

With the tin-kettle fastened to him and hurting him at every step, and with Mr. Rough at his
very heels, Benjy was run out of Beastland. When he got to the edge of the moon he jumped off,
Mr. Rough after him.

Down, down, they went, oh! so fast and so far! Benjy screaming all the way and Mr. Rough's
collar jingling. They came to the river, and making all the noise they could, in they fell.
As Benjy sank he thought of all the unkind things he had done. He came to the top, but sank
again, and sinking, thought of his papa and mamma and his little sisters, and of his nice little
bed, and of the prayers his dear mamma used to hear him say. He rose for the last time, and
saw Nox standing on the bank, and thought, "Now he has come to do something to me because I
have so often hurt him." Down, down he went, as a lark flew up in the summer sky. The bird
was almost out of sight when a soft black nose and great brown eyes came close to his face,
and a kind, gentle mouth took hold of him, and paddling and swimming as hard as he could, Nox
carried Benjy to the shore and laid him under the willow- tree. There Benjy's papa found him,
and took him home, where he was sick for a long, long time. When he got a little better he
used to tell people of his visit to Beastland, but they always said it was only a dream he
had during the fever.

In the long weeks of his sickness he grew much kinder and sweeter. But something happened when
he was getting well which softened his little heart once and forever.

While he was sick, Mr. Rough was given to one of the servants to be cared for and fed well,
but he did not treat him kindly, and besides, the dog wanted his little master; he wanted to
see him, but no one would let him; so poor faithful Mr. Rough got thinner and weaker every
day, till at last he would not eat anything nor even go out for a little walk.

One day the barn door was open and Mr. Rough thought of Benjy and crept into the house. When
he got into the front hall he smelled Benjy and ran into the parlor; and when he got into the
parlor he saw Benjy, who had heard the jingle of his collar and who stood up and held out his
arms for him. Mr. Rough jumped into them, and then fell dead at his master's feet.

Yes, dear children, Mr. Rough died of joy at seeing Benjy again. Benjy felt very sorry for
him, and it kept him from growing well for a long time, but it did him good in other ways,
for as the tears rolled down his cheeks on to Mr. Bough's poor little scratched face, he felt
as if he never could hurt or be unkind to any animal again.

THE PORCELAIN STOVE.

Adapted From Ouida.

"The story-teller must take life into himself in its wholeness, must let it live and work whole
and free within him. He must give it out free and unabbreviated, and yet STAND ABOVE THE LIFE
which actually is."--Froebel.

In a little brown house, far, far away in Germany, there lived a father and his children. There
were ever so many of them,--let me see,--Hilda, the dear eldest sister, and Hans, the big,
strong brother; then Karl and August, and the baby Marta. Just enough for the fingers of one
hand. How many is that? But it is Karl that I am going to tell you about. He was nine years
old, a rosy little fellow, with big bright eyes and a curly head as brown as a ripe nut. The
dear mother was dead, and the father was very poor, so that Karl and his brothers and sisters
sometimes knew what it was to be hungry; but they were happy, for they loved each other very
dearly, and ate their brown bread and milk without wishing it were something nicer. One afternoon
Karl had been sent on a long journey. It was winter time, and he had to run fast over the frozen
fields of white snow. The night was coming on, and he was hurrying home with a great jug of
milk, feeling cold and tired. The mountains looked high and white and still in the cold moonlight,
and the stars seemed to say, when they twinkled, "Hurry, Karl! the children are hungry." At
last he saw a little brown cottage, with a snow-laden roof and a shining window, through which
he could see the bright firelight dancing merrily,--for Hilda never closed the shutters till
all the boys were safely inside the house. When he saw the dear home-light he ran as fast as
his feet could carry him, burst in at the low front door, kissed Hilda, and shouted:--

"Oh! dear, dear Hirschvogel! I am so glad to get back to you again; you are every bit as good
as the summer time."

Now, Hirschvogel was not one of the family, as you might think, nor even a splendid dog, nor
a pony, but it was a large, beautiful porcelain stove, so tall that it quite touched the ceiling.
It stood at the end of the room, shining with all the hues of a peacock's tail, bright and
warm and beautiful; its great golden feet were shaped like the claws of a lion, and there was
a golden crown on the very top of all. You never have seen a stove like it, for it was white
where our stoves are black, and it had flowers and birds and beautiful ladies and grand gentlemen
painted all over it, and everywhere it was brilliant with gold and bright colors. It was a
very old stove, for sixty years before, Karl's grandfather had dug it up out of some broken-down
buildings where he was working, and, finding it strong and whole, had taken it home; and ever
since then it had stood in the big room, warming the children, who tumbled like little flowers
around its shining feet. The grandfather did not know it, but it was a wonderful stove, for
it had been made by a great potter named Hirschvogel.

A potter, you know, children, is a man who makes all sorts of things, dishes and tiles and
vases, out of china and porcelain and clay. So the family had always called the stove Hirschvogel,
after the potter, just as if it were alive.

To the children the stove was very dear indeed. In summer they laid a mat of fresh moss all
around it, and dressed it up with green boughs and beautiful wild flowers. All the children
loved it, but Karl even more than the rest, and he used to say to himself, "When I grow up
I will make just such things too, and then I will set Hirschvogel up in a beautiful room that
I will build myself. That's what I will do when I'm a man."

After Karl had eaten his supper, this cold night, he lay down on the floor by the stove, the
children all around him, on the big wolf-skin rug. With some sticks of charcoal he was drawing
pictures for them of what he had seen all day. When the children had looked enough at one picture,
he would sweep it out with his elbow and make another--faces, and dogs' heads, and men on sleds,
and old women in their furs, and pine-trees, and all sorts of animals. When they had been playing
in this way for some time, Hilda, the eldest sister, said:--

"It is time for you all to go to bed, children. Father is very late to-night; you must not
sit up for him."

"Oh, just five minutes more, dear Hilda," they begged. "Hirschvogel is so warm; the beds are
never so warm as he is."

In the midst of their chatter and laughter the door opened, and in blew the cold wind and snow
from outside. Their father had come home. He seemed very tired, and came slowly to his chair.
At last he said, "Take the children to bed, daughter."

Karl stayed, curled up before the stove. When Hilda came back, the father said sadly:

"Hilda, I have sold Hirschvogel! I have sold it to a traveling peddler, for I need money very
much; the winter is so cold and the children are so hungry. The man will take it away to-morrow."

Hilda gave a cry. "Oh, father! the children, in the middle of winter!" and she turned as white
as the snow outside.

Karl lay half blind with sleep, staring at his father." It can't be true, it can't be true!"
he cried. "You are making fun, father." It seemed to him that the skies must fall if Hirschvogel
were taken away.

"Yes," said the father, "you will find it true enough.

"Oh, father! dear father!" cried poor little Karl, "you cannot mean what you say. Send our
stove away? We shall all die in the dark and cold.

The father was so sorry for his little boy that he could not speak. He looked sadly at him;
then took the lamp that stood on the table, and left the room.

Hilda knelt down and tried to comfort Karl, but he was too unhappy to listen. "I shall stay
here," was all he said, and he lay there all the night long. The lamp went out; the rats came
and ran across the room; the room grew colder and colder. Karl did not move, but lay with his
face down on the floor by the lovely rainbow-colored stove. When it grew light, his sister
came down with a lamp in her hand to begin her morning work. She crept up to him, and laid
her cheek on his softly, and said:--

"Dear Karl, you must be frozen. Karl! do look up; do speak."

"Ah!" said poor Karl, "it will never be warm again."

Soon after some one knocked at the door.

Hilda unfastened the door. The man came in at once, and began to wrap the stove in a great
many wrappings, and carried it out into the snow, where an ox-cart stood in waiting. In another
moment it was gone; gone forever!

Karl leaned against the wall, his tears falling like rain down his pale cheeks.

Karl nodded his head, and began to sob again. "I love it! I love it!" he said.

"Well, if I were you I would do better than cry. I would go after it when I grew bigger," said
the neighbor, trying to cheer him up a little. "Don't cry so loud; you will see your stove
again some day," and the old man went away, leaving a new idea in Karl's head.

"Go after it," the old man had said. Karl thought, "Why not go with it?" He loved it better
than anything else in the world, even better than Hilda. He ran off quickly after the cart
which was carrying the dear Hirschvogel to the station. How he managed it he never knew very
well himself, but it was certain that when the freight train moved away from the station Karl
was hidden behind the stove. It was very dark, but he wasn't frightened. He was close beside
Hirschvogel, but he wanted to be closer still; he meant to get inside the stove. He set to
work like a little mouse to make a hole in the straw and hay. He gnawed and nibbled, and pushed
and pulled, making a hole where he guessed that the door might be. At last he found it; he
slipped through it, as he had so often done at home for fun, and curled himself up. He drew
the hay and straw together carefully, and fixed the ropes, so that no one could have dreamed
that a little mouse had been at them. Safe inside his dear Hirschvogel, he went as fast asleep
as if he were in his own little bed at home. The train rumbled on in its heavy, slow way, and
Karl slept soundly for a long time. When he awoke the darkness frightened him, but he felt
the cold sides of Hirschvogel, and said softly, "Take care of me, dear Hirschvogel, oh, please
take care of me!"

