PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOLUME 104

APRIL 15th 1893

Edited by Sir Francis Burnand

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITICAL MEETINGS.

  A CROWDED, gas-lit, stuffy hall,
    A prosy speaker, such a duffer,
  A mob that loves to stamp and bawl,
    Noise, suffocation--how I suffer!

  What is he saying? "Mr. G.
    Attacks the British Constitution,
  It therefore--er--er--falls to me
    To move the first--er--resolution:

  "That--er--the Shrimpington-on-Sea
    United Primrose Habitations
  Pronounce ('Hear, hear!') these Bills to be
    Iniquitous (cheers) innovations."

  I'll bear this heat and noise no more;
    My constitution would be weaker.
  I hurry out, and find, next door,
    Another meeting and its speaker;

  Another crowded, stuffy hall,
    A frantic shouter, greater duffer,
  A mob more prone to stamp and bawl,
    Noise, suffocation still I suffer.

  What is he saying? "Mr. G.,
    Despite drink's cursed coalition,
  Dooms publicans (groans), as should be,
    On earth, as elsewhere, to perdition!

  "I move, the Shrimpington-on-Sea
    United Bands of Hope, with pleasure,
  Pronounce the Veto Bill to be
    A great (cheers), good (shouts), just (roars) measure."

  Enough! O frantic fools who rave
    And call it "Temperance"! This body
  Would drive me to an early grave;
    I'll hurry home and get some toddy.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVICE TO A YOUNG PARTY SCRIBE.

  YOU may, an it please you, be dull,
    (For Britons deem dulness "respectable");
  Stale flowers of speech you may cull,
    With meanings now scarcely detectable;
  You may wallow in saturnine spite,
    You may flounder in flatulent flummery;
  Be sombre as poet YOUNG'S "Night,"
    And dry as a Newspaper "Summary";
  As rude as a yowling Yahoo,
    As chill as a volume of CHITTY;
  But oh, Sir, whatever you do,
    You must not be witty!

  Plod on through the sand-wastes of Fact,
    Long level of gritty aridity;
  With pompous conceit make a pact,
    Be bondsman to bald insipidity;
  Be slab as a black Irish bog,
    Slow, somnolent, stupid, and stodgy;
  Plunge into sophistical fog,
    And the realms of the dumpishly dodgy.
  With trump elephantine and slow,
    Tread on through word-swamps, dank and darkling;
  But no, most decidedly no,
    You must not be sparkling!

  Be just as unjust as you like,
    A conscienceless, 'cute special-pleader;
  As spiteful as Squeers was to Smike,
    (You may often trace Squeers in a "leader.")
  Impute all the vileness you can,
    Poison truth with snake-venom of fable,
  Be fair--as is woman to man,
    And kindly--as CAIN was to ABEL.
  Suggest what is false in a sneer,
    Suppress what is true by confusing;
  Be sour, stale, and flat as small-beer,
    But don't be amusing!

  Party zealots will pardon your spite,
    If against their opponents it sputters,
  The way a (word) foeman to fight,
    Is to misrepresent all he utters.
  That does not need wisdom or wit,
    (Ye poor party-scribes, what a blessing!)
  No clean knightly sword, but a spit
    Is the weapon for mangling and messing;
  Wield that, like a cudgel-armed rough
    Blent with ruthless bravo,--such are numerous!--
  Lie, slander, spout pitiful stuff,
    But--beware of the humorous!

  For if you should fall into fun,
    You might lapse into manly good-nature,
  And then--well your course would be run!
    No,--study up spleen's nomenclature;
  Learn all the mad logic of hate,
    And then, though your style be like skilly,
  Your sense frothy Styx in full spate.
    And your maxims portentously silly;
  You will find party scope for your pen,
    Coin meanness and malice to money;
  But sour dulness must keep to his den,
    And never be funny.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FOX AND THE GUINEA-PIGS.

(A Financial Fable.)

    ["There are dozens of Companies now existing with the Duke of
    PUFFBALL, Sir BONUS BARE-ACRES, Bart., Major GUINEA PIG, M.P.,
    and the like, figuring upon the Board of Directors. A
    short, but drastic Act, making all such figureheads directly
    responsible, would go far to prevent similar occurrences, and
    to abolish a delusive, if not a fraudulent system."--Herbert
    T. Reid's Letter to the Times.]

  SMART Mr. FOX, whose brain no conscience troubles,
  Floated a Company--for blowing bubbles!
  "Bubbles?" the duller creatures cried in chorus,
  "Are you not coming nursery nonsense o'er us?
  What is the use of bubbles--save to boys?"
  "Hush!" cried 'cute Reynard. "Do not make a noise!
  Bubbles--if bright--are cunning's best decoys.
  Bubbles are only wind plus soap and water;
  But well-stirred suds, and well-blown flatulence,
  In this fool world, have influence immense,
  And draw unthinking dupes from every quarter.
  Eloquence is but Wind, yet flowery trope
          Is Humbug's favourite lure;
  And what is Diplomatic Skill but soap?
          Trust me! Success is sure!
  Bubbles are bright, bewitch the mob, float far,
          And cost the blower little.
  The watery sphere looks like a world, a star,
  And when it bursts, being exceeding brittle,
  Where it explodes (as at the rainbow's foot)
  There's hidden treasure--for the clever brute
  Who knows that gulls are the great wealth-bestowers,
  Bubbles mean solid bullion--for the blowers!"

  The shrewder animals applauded. Lupus
  Cried, "We are with you, so you do not dupe us!"
  Ursus and Taurus also, Bull and Bear,
  Were eager in the game to take a share.
  Said Vulpus to the assembled quadrupeds,
  "Company Boards, like ships, need figureheads,
  Wooden but ornamental! Eh? You twig?
  Sweet are the uses of--the Guinea Pig!
  Dull, but respectable and decorative,
  That tribe, to whom credulity is native.
  They'll sit around our Board in solemn row,
  And never, never 'want to know, you know,'
  Beyond convenient limits. Their proud presence
  Will fill our flock with faith; their acquiescence,
  So readily secured by liberal fees,
  Will make the mob accept our schemes with ease.
  Behold them! They will give us little trouble
  By wanting--well, to analyse the Bubble;
  So they get something for themselves more solid,
          They'll sit serene and stolid
  In titled sloth and coronetted slumber.
  I can secure them, friends, in any number;
  For Guinea Pigs are numerous and prolific
  And as decoys their influence is mirific.
  So whilst we work our Bubble-blowing rigs,
          Hurrah, for Guinea Pigs!
  They'll take our fees, assent to our suggestions,
  And ask no awkward questions."

MORAL.

  The rank's the guinea's stamp, says Scotland's ROB,
  But if you want to bubble, juggle, job,
  You'll find, with Vulpus, the Promoter big,
  Rank is the stamp of the true Guinea Pig!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POOR MAN AND HIS BEER.

    [Mr. CHAMBERLAIN, at Birmingham, said, "We know that the
    Government propose to deprive the working classes of their
    beer." ("Shame!" and a Voice, "They don't!")]

  "ROB the poor Workman of his glass of beer!!!"
  And can that clap-trap, then, still raise a cheer?
  The British Workman has a thirsty throat,
  The British Workman also has a Vote,
  One will protect the other--if it cares to.
  But if he'd close, by vote, the shops such snares to
  His tipple-tempted and intemperate throttle
  He robs himself of access to the bottle,--
  If robbery it's called--'tis not another,
  (Who is a swell, with cellars) his poor brother
  Deprives of that long-hackneyed, much-mouthed "glass."
  The British Workman is not quite an ass,
  And where he wants to whet (with beer) his throat,
  Where are you like to get your two-thirds Vote?
  Whether there's wisdom in this vaunted Veto,
  Is quite another question sense must see to.
  And general justice judge. But those who cheer
  The stale old fudge about the Poor Man's Beer,
  Should learn it is a dodge of vested pelf,
  And, rich or poor, a man can't rob himself.
  It is the poor who suffer from temptation,
  And drink's detestable adulteration,
  That crying ill which no one dares to tackle!
  Whilst Witlers howl, and Water-zealots cackle.
  The poor are poisoned, not by honest drink,
  But lethal stuff that might scour out a sink.
  The Poor Man's Beer, quotha! Who'll keep it pure?
  Not rich monopolists, nor prigs demure,
  Those shriek for freedom, these for prohibition,
  "Vend the drugged stuff sans scrutiny or condition!"
  Cries Vested Interest. "Close, by law or Vote,
  The Witler's tavern and the Workman's throat!"
  Shouts the fanatic. Which, then, fad or pelf,
  Cares really, solely, for the Poor Man's self?
  Nay; the Monopolist fights for his money,
  The Monomaniac for his craze. How funny
  To hear one shout for freedom, t'other cheer
  The poisoner's cant about the Poor Man's Beer!

       *       *       *       *       *

WHY is it evident that Mr. ARTHUR BALFOUR didn't know much of Ireland until last Monday week,
April 3? Because 'twas then he went to Larne.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Statesmen, Historians, and such, may think that, between the years 1871 and 1876, "the Egyptian
Question" turned upon the extravagance of ISMAIL PASHA, and the financial complications that
followed thereupon. Readers of the Recollections of an Egyptian Princess (BLACKWOOD) will know
better. The real Egyptian Question of that epoch was, whether the English Governess of the
Khedive's daughter should get her mistress's carriage at the very hour she wanted it; whether
she should have the best rooms in any palace or hotel she might chance to be located in; and
whether she should have her meals served at the time and in the fashion she had been accustomed
to in the family mansion at Clapton or Camberwell. Many stirring passages in the book deal
with these and cognate matters. None delights my Baronite more than one in which a driver named
HASSAN figures. HASSAN, ordered for eight o'clock, sometimes came at nine. Occasionally at
six. "He asked for 'backseesh,' which" Miss CHENNELLS writes, "I did not consider myself bound
to give, as he never did anything for me." On two occasions, her heart warming, she coyly pressed
a florin into his hand, with dire results. "He was," she records, "much worse after it" (the
florin, which he seems to have taken neat), "and would, when driving, stoop down, and look
through the front window of the brougham, shouting 'Backseesh!'" However, Miss CHENNELLS got
even with HASSAN. She followed her usual course when things went ill. She complained to her
pupil, the Princess. Next morning, when the unsuspecting HASSAN drove into the court-yard,
"he was told by the Eunuchs to descend from the box, was conducted to an inner receptacle,
and," Miss CHENNELLS grimly adds, "then and there bastinadoed." Incidentally, in connection
with the English Governess's struggle for supremacy in the City of the Pharaohs, we get pictures
of life in the Harem, and glimpses of the lavish magnificence of the Khedieval Court, with
its French embroidery on Eastern robes. It was with the object of describing these scenes,
viewed from a rare vantage point, that the story was written. But not the least interesting
character is that, unconsciously drawn, of the prim, practical, precise English Governess,
pushing her way through the crowd of courtiers and Ethiopian slaves, peering through gold-rimmed
eyeglasses into the recesses of the Harem, and glaring angrily at the hapless Eunuchs, who,
going their morning rounds, visit her bedroom, regardless of the twine with which, before entering
on her virgin slumbers, she had sedulously fastened the lockless door. Altogether a delightful
book, says PASSIM PASHA, the accredited representative of the Baron DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those who like "Just a tale by twilight, When the lights are low, And the glittering shadows
Softly come and go," will do well to expend the comparatively small sum of one shilling, which,
in certain ready-money quarters, is reduced to tenpence, or even ninepence, on Grim Tales,
written by E. NESBIT, of which "The Ebony Frame" (which should have been called "The Speaking
Likeness,") "The Mystery of the Semi-Detached," "Life-size, in Marble," and "A Mass for the
Dead," are the best, the last-mentioned being the only one that ends, as all otherwise purposeless
tales should end, happily. The Stories are grim enough, in all conscience, but they are told
in a hearty sort of fashion, which, while relieving them of some of their weirdness, is calculated
to impress the reader with an idea of the honesty and bona fides of the narrator. Thus far,

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MEM. FOR THE NEXT EPSOM MEETING,--WHY is the Winner of the Derby always like a Table d' hôte?--Because
he's so much ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS FOR A CRIMINAL COLLEGE.

(Suitable for Use at the Prison University, Elmira.)

Question. What is a crime?

Answer. A discovered breach of the law.

Q. And a virtue?

A. Its antithesis--the same thing unsuspected.

Q. What should be the chief occupation of a criminal?

A. A serious study of the law, with a view to its successful evasion.

Q. Is there a law for the rich and a law for the poor?

A. Certainly not; but a well-feed Q.C. is more than a match for a briefless Counsel whose professional
sustenance is "soup."

Q. What is now generally considered to be the highest line of crime?

A. The malpractice that is frequently inseparable from holding of important positions on the
Boards of bogus public Companies.

Q. What is necessary to secure a livelihood out of burglary?

A. A clear head, a knowledge of chemistry and kindred subjects, and a fair amount of capital.

Q. Why is ready money necessary?

A. Because the calling of a burglar nowadays is attended by various compulsory expenses. A
successful burglar should be able to purchase skeleton-keys and "jemmies" of the most exquisite
and delicate quality. Moreover, he should be able to entertain largely, and to keep a yacht.

Q. Is swindling ever known to be legal?

A. Scarcely; still it can often be practised with impunity on the Stock Exchange and the Turf.

Q. Is petty larceny lawful?

A. Only when practised on the belongings of your wife, and even in this case it is well to
keep her in ignorance of the provisions of the Married Woman's Property Act.

Q. What are the advantages of a sojourn in the newly organised Elmira establishment?

A. An inmate is taught a trade, or even a profession.

Q. And now, in conclusion, considering that a breach of the law is necessary to secure admission
to the University, what would you consider the most appropriate motto for the Institution?

A. "Honesty is not (at first) the best policy."

       *       *       *       *       *

"BACK US UP!"--It is stated that, on the new School Board for the Henley-in-Arden district,
a Mr. H. BACCHUS has been elected. May BACCHUS (and the classic "fat venison") never be absent
from this Board! Probably, nowadays, BACCHUS is a strong supporter of the Temperance Movement,
if not himself a Total Abstainer.

LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

No. XVIII.--TO FAILURE.

SIR,--Hitherto, I seem to have been submitting to you examples that cannot properly be described
as failures. This was not my purpose. I wished rather to describe one or two characters whose
ruin, to a greater or smaller degree, you have compassed by your influence. But some sprite
seemed to take possession of my pen; my efforts were unsuccessful, and I was led away from
my original purpose. Perhaps that is one of the penalties of addressing you. We shall see!
In any case let me proceed with my task as best I may.

It happened to me once--the date is immaterial--that after a considerable absence, I returned
to London. You know, perhaps, how it fares with those who, for any length of time, become exiles
from their native land. All the institutions, the small no less than the great, that go to
make up our varied social life at home, become glorified as it were, and loom larger through
the mist of absence. They become part and parcel of a traveller's patriotism, even if in his
home-life he took no part in them. I was due to return at the end of May, in time for the Derby-day.
I am not a racing-man. I had never seen the Derby run, chiefly, I fancy, because I had never
had any desire to see it. But I remember that amongst my brother-exiles, I was being eternally
congratulated on the good luck that took me home in time for this great national event. "What,
you are going to be back by the end of May," one of them would say; "why you'll be able to
go to the Derby?" So that in time, I came to accept this possibility as a specially enviable
feature of my home-coming. From that, to making up my mind to go to the Derby was but a step,
I took it, and on the great day I made one of the mighty crowd on Epsom Downs. I don't remember
much about the race. I met many friends who asked me, as is common in such cases, if I was
back already; a question to which it seems difficult to find a suitable reply, if one's bodily
presence is not to be accepted as a sufficient evidence of the fact. Many others volunteered
to put me on to various absolute certainties, and one man chilled my newly-born racing-patriotism
by observing, that he would as soon have thought of seeing FRED ARCHER at a meeting of the
British Association.

I don't mean to describe the scene on the Downs. One crowd is much like another; and, when
you have said something of the proverbial good-nature of a British crowd, you have done all
that can be justly required of you, after seeing a hunted wretch all but torn in pieces by
a mob of blackguards worse than himself. However, I think I enjoyed myself well enough. Others
enjoyed themselves more, and amongst these was a party of roystering, jovial fellows, who ate
a hearty luncheon, and drank much champagne, on the top of a hired drag. One of them particularly
attracted my attention. Somewhere, I knew, I had seen that curious, clean-shaved, bull-frog
face before. It was perfectly familiar to me, but, for the life of me, I couldn't recall the
circumstances in which I had previously set eyes on it. He appeared to be the leader of the
revels, and kept his companions in fits of laughter at his sallies. I beat my brains to remember
him, but all in vain. All that I could arrive at was a sense of incongruity, an impression
of the unexpected in the spectacle I had witnessed.

In the evening I went to the "Frivolity," to see the latest rays of the lamp of burlesque.
That scene, at any rate, was familiar. There, in all their spotless panoply of expressionless
face, and irreproachable shirt-front, sat the golden lads of the Metropolis in their rows,
images of bored stupidity, stiffly cased in black and white. There too, were to be seen the
snowy shoulders and the sparkling jewels of the ladies both of the smart and of the higher
half world, with here and there an extensive dowager to add weight and decorum to the throng.
The curtain drew up on one of the usual scenes of rejoicing. Shapely ladies, in tights, chorused
their delight at the approaching nuptials of a great lord's daughter. Then the contented peasantry
of the surrounding district stepped forward to swell the joyful strains, and to be regaled
with draughts of sparkling emptiness from the inexhaustible beaker wielded by the landlord
of the neighbouring inn. And there, under the broad hat of one of these rejoicing peasants,
I recognised the bull-frog face that had puzzled me that day at Epsom. In a flash I remembered
him and all the scenes in which he had played a humble part. Far back from the dimness of some
of my earliest theatrical experiences, up to the present moment, I followed him on his career,
simulating joint merriment, bearing one of many banners, carrying a pike or a halberd in an
army similarly armed, conspiring in a mantle, draining a brimming goblet, but never--at least
within my recollection--taking a part of any individuality, or one that gave him a chance of
singing or speaking a single line by himself. He had been one of the ruck when I had first
seen him, and now, after at least twenty years, the ruck still claimed him for its own. I remember
I had woven a sort of romance about him. There, I had thought to myself, is a man who, no doubt,
began his stage career with high aspirations, and noble ambitions. It cannot have been his
aim to figure for ever merely as one of a crowd. And I had pictured him gradually losing hope,
and wearing his heart out in the bitterness of deferred ambition as he walked gloomily through
life, with the stamp of failure on his brow. The picture was a pathetic one, you must admit,
worthy to take its place on the line with the well-known fancy sketch of the Clown who, after
making the masses split their sides, goes home to a private life of penury and despair.

Well, that day I had seen a piece of my friend's private life at Epsom. Nothing could have
been farther removed from misery. A light-hearted gaiety reigned in his face and ruled his
every gesture. His companions seemed to bow to him, as to their leading humorist and mirth-maker.
I was stimulated by the collapse of my elaborate illusion to make inquiries about him. I found
that he had been born almost on the stage, and had taken part in stage-life from his earliest
years. He never had any ambition: so long as he could be on the stage, and take part in its
life, his desires were satisfied. He lived an absolutely contented life, smoked infamous tobacco
out of clay-pipes, and was in high repute amongst his intimates as a singer of jovial songs,
and a teller of brisk theatrical anecdotes. There was not a spark of envy in his nature. He
honoured the great actors, and was always ready to do all he could to smooth the path of any
nervous youngster with excellent advice and cheerful help. He is still acting. Anybody who
wishes can see him on any night, helping to troll forth the chorus of a song of Mexican warriors
in the great spectacular drama of Montezuma. There is no more perfectly-satisfied being in
existence. On that I am prepared to stake my life. Let this tale then be a warning to those
who are over-hasty to construct romances of pathetic contrast on an insufficient foundation.
One hugs such stories to one's heart, and it is something of a wrench to have to give them
up in the light of a fuller knowledge.

And here I am, having all but reached the limits of my appointed space, without apparently
having gone one step nearer to the fulfilment of the task on which I set out. I can only ask
you to take the will for the deed in the meantime. And after all, if this unambitious actor
had only been what I imagined him to be, I could not have produced an apter example. But he
had the impertinence to live his life in his own way, and that did not happen to accord with
the theories I had been led to form about it. Shall I never be able to come to the point? I
have not yet given up all hope?

Yours as usual,

D. R.

