STORIES BY AMERICAN AUTHORS. VOLUME I

Stories by American Authors VOLUME I

   WHO WAS SHE. By BAYARD TAYLOR

   THE DOCUMENTS IN THE CASE. By BRANDER MATTHEWS AND H.C. BUNNER

   ONE OF THE THIRTY PIECES. By WILLIAM HENRY BISHOP

   BALACCHI BROTHERS. By REBECCA HARDING DAVIS

   AN OPERATION IN MONEY.

PART FIRST:

DOCUMENT NO. I.

Paragraph from the "Illustrated London News," published under the head of "Obituary of Eminent
Persons" in the issue of January 4th, 1879:

SIR WILLIAM BEAUVOIR, BART.

Sir William Beauvoir, Bart., whose lamented death has just occurred at Brighton, on December
28th, was the head and representative of the junior branch of the very ancient and honourable
family of Beauvoir, and was the only son of the late General Sir William Beauvoir, Bart., by
his wife Anne, daughter of Colonel Doyle, of Chelsworth Cottage, Suffolk. He was born in 1805,
and was educated at Eton and Trinity Hall, Cambridge. He was M.P. for Lancashire from 1837
to 1847, and was appointed a Gentleman of the Privy Chamber in 1843. Sir William married, in
1826, Henrietta Georgiana, fourth daughter of the Right Honourable Adolphus Liddell, Q.C.,
by whom he had two sons, William Beauvoir and Oliver Liddell Beauvoir. The latter was with
his lamented parent when he died. Of the former nothing has been heard for nearly thirty years,
about which time he left England suddenly for America. It is supposed that he went to California,
shortly after the discovery of gold. Much forgotten gossip will now in all probability be revived,
for the will of the lamented baronet has been proved, on the 2d inst., and the personalty sworn
under £70,000. The two sons are appointed executors. The estate in Lancashire is left to the
elder, and the rest is divided equally between the brothers. The doubt as to the career of
Sir William's eldest son must now of course be cleared up.

This family of Beauvoirs is of Norman descent and of great antiquity. This is the younger branch,
founded in the last century by Sir William Beauvoir, Bart., who was Chief Justice of the Canadas,
whence he was granted the punning arms and motto now borne by his descendants--a beaver sable
rampant on a field gules; motto, "Damno."

PART SECOND:

DOCUMENT NO. 2.

Promises to pay, put forth by William Beauvoir, junior, at various times in 1848:

                            I.O.U
                                 £105.0.0
   April 10th, 1848.
                                 William Beauvoir, junr.

DOCUMENT NO. 3.

The same.

                            I.O.U
                                 £250.0.0
   April 22d, 1848.
                                 William Beauvoir, junr.

DOCUMENT NO. 4.

The same.

                            I.O.U.
                                 £600.0.0.
   May 10th, 1848.
                                 William Beauvoir, junr.

DOCUMENT NO. 5.

Extract from the "Sunday Satirist," a journal of high-life, published in London, May 13th, 1848:

Are not our hereditary lawmakers and the members of our old families the guardians of the honour
of this realm? One would not think so to see the reckless gait at which some of them go down
the road to ruin. The D----e of D----m and the E----l of B----n and L----d Y----g,--are not
these pretty guardians of a nation's name? Quis custodiet? etc. Guardians, forsooth, parce
qu'ils se sont donnés la peine de naître! Some of the gentry make the running as well as their
betters. Young W----m B----r, son of old Sir W----m B----r, late M.P. for L----e, is truly
a model young man. He comes of a good old county family--his mother was a daughter of the Right
Honourable A----s L----l, and he himself is old enough to know better. But we hear of his escapades
night after night, and day after day. He bets all day and he plays all night, and poor tired
nature has to make the best of it. And his poor worn purse gets the worst of it. He has duns
by the score. His I.O.U.'s are held by every Jew in the city. He is not content with a little
gentlemanlike game of whist or écarté, but he must needs revive for his especial use and behoof
the dangerous and well-nigh forgotten pharaoh. As luck would have it, he had lost as much at
this game of brute chance as ever he would at any game of skill. His judgment of horseflesh
is no better than his luck at cards. He came a cropper over the "Two Thousand Guineas." The
victory of the favorite cost him to the tune of over six thousand pounds. We learn that he
hopes to recoup himself on the Derby, by backing Shylock for nearly nine thousand pounds; one
bet was twelve hundred guineas.

And this is the sort of man who may be chosen at any time by force of family interest to make
laws for the toiling millions of Great Britain!

DOCUMENT NO. 6.

Extract from "Bell's Life" of May 19th, 1848:

THE DERBY DAY.

WEDNESDAY.--This day, like its predecessor, opened with a cloudless sky, and the throng which
crowded the avenues leading to the grand scene of attraction was, as we have elsewhere remarked,
incalculable.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DERBY.

The Derby Stakes of 50 sovs. each, h. ft. for three year-olds; colts, 8 st. 7 lb., fillies,
8 st. 2 lb.; the second to receive 100 sovs., and the winner to pay 100 sovs. towards police,
etc.; mile and a half on the new Derby course; 215 subs.

    Lord Clifden's b.c. Surplice, by Touchstone.......... 1
    Mr. Bowe's b.c. Springy Jack, by Hetman.............. 2
    Mr. B. Green's br.c. Shylock, by Simoon.............. 3
    Mr. Payne's b.c. Glendower,   by Slane............... o
    Mr. J.P. Day's b.c. Nil Desperandum, by Venison...... o

       *       *       *       *       *

DOCUMENT NO. 7.

Paragraph of Shipping Intelligence from the "Liverpool Courier" of June 21st, 1848:

The bark Euterpe, Captain Riding, belonging to the Transatlantic Clipper Line of Messrs. Judkins
& Cooke, left the Mersey yesterday afternoon, bound for New York. She took out the usual complement
of steerage passengers. The first officer's cabin is occupied by Professor Titus Peebles, M.R.C.S.,
M.R.G.S., lately instructor in metallurgy at the University of Edinburgh, and Mr. William Beauvoir.
Professor Peebles, we are informed, has an important scientific mission in the States, and
will not return for six months.

DOCUMENT NO. 8.

Paragraph from the "N.Y. Herald" of September 9th, 1848:

While we well know that the record of vice and dissipation can never be pleasing to the refined
tastes of the cultivated denizens of the only morally pure metropolis on the face of the earth,
yet it may be of interest to those who enjoy the fascinating study of human folly and frailty
to "point a moral or adorn a tale" from the events transpiring in our very midst. Such as these
will view with alarm the sad example afforded the youth of our city by the dissolute career
of a young lump of aristocratic affectation and patrician profligacy, recently arrived in this
city. This young gentleman's (save the mark!) name is Lord William F. Beauvoir, the latest
scion of a venerable and wealthy English family. We print the full name of this beautiful exemplar
of "haughty Albion," although he first appeared among our citizens under the alias of Beaver,
by which name he is now generally known, although recorded on the books of the Astor House
by the name which our enterprise first gives to the public. Lord Beauvoir's career since his
arrival here has been one of unexampled extravagance and mad immorality. His days and nights
have been passed in the gilded palaces of the fickle goddess, Fortune, in Thomas Street and
College Place, where he has squandered fabulous sums, by some stated to amount to over £78,000
sterling. It is satisfactory to know that retribution has at last overtaken him. His enormous
income has been exhausted to the ultimate farthing, and at latest accounts he had quit the
city, leaving behind him, it is shrewdly suspected, a large hotel bill, though no such admission
can be extorted from his last landlord, who is evidently a sycophantic adulator of British
"aristocracy."

DOCUMENT NO. 9.

Certificate of deposit, vulgarly known as a pawn-ticket, issued by one Simpson to William Beauvoir,
December 2d, 1848:

   =John Simpson,
               Loan Office,
                       36 Bowery,
                              New York.=

   Dec. 2nd, 1848,

   One Gold Hunting-case Watch and Dolls. Cts.

   Chain                                                  150    00

   William Beauvoir

   Not accountable in case of fire, damage, moth, robbery, breakage, &c.
   25% per ann. Good for 1 year only.

DOCUMENT NO. 10.

Letter from the late John Phoenix, found among the posthumous papers of the late John P. Squibob,
and promptly published in the "San Diego Herald":

   OFF THE COAST OF FLORIDA, Jan. 3, 1849.

   MY DEAR SQUIB:--I imagine your pathetic inquiry
   as to my whereabouts--pathetic, not to say
   hypothetic--for I am now where I cannot hear the
   dulcet strains of your voice. I am on board ship.
   I am half seas over. I am bound for California
   by way of the Isthmus. I am going for the gold,
   my boy, the gold. In the mean time I am lying
   around loose on the deck of this magnificent
   vessel, the Mercy G. Tarbox, of Nantucket, bred by
   Noah's Ark out of Pilot-boat, dam by Mudscow out
   of Raging Canawl. The Mercy G. Tarbox is one of
   the best boats of Nantucket, and Captain Clearstarch
   is one of the best captains all along shore--although,
   friend Squibob, I feel sure that you
   are about to observe that a captain with a name
   like that would give any one the blues. But
   don't do it, Squib! Spare me this once.

   But as a matter of fact this ultramarine joke of
   yours is about east. It was blue on the Mercy
   G.--mighty blue, too. And it needed the inspiring
   hope of the gold I was soon to pick up in nuggets
   to stiffen my back-bone to a respectable degree
   of rigidity. I was about ready to wilt. But
   I discovered two Englishmen on board, and now I
   get along all right. We have formed a little temperance
   society--just we three, you know--to see
   if we cannot, by a course of sampling and severe
   study, discover which of the captain's liquors is
   most dangerous, so that we can take the pledge
   not to touch it. One of them is a chemist or a
   metallurgist, or something scientific. The other
   is a gentleman.

   The chemist or metallurgist or something scientific
   is Professor Titus Peebles, who is going out
   to prospect for gold. He feels sure that his professional
   training will give him the inside track in
   the gulches and gold mines. He is a smart chap.
   He invented the celebrated "William Riley Baking
   Powder"--bound to rise up every time.

   And here I must tell you a little circumstance.
   As I was coming down to the dock in New York,
   to go aboard the Mercy G., a small boy was walloping
   a boy still smaller; so I made peace, and walloped
   them both. And then they both began heaving
   rocks at me--one of which I caught dexterously
   in the dexter hand. Yesterday, as I was
   pacing the deck with the professor, I put my hand
   in my pocket and found this stone. So I asked the
   professor what it was.

   He looked at it and said it was gneiss.

   "Is it?" said I. "Well, if a small but energetic
   youth had taken you on the back of the head
   with it, you would not think it so nice!"

   And then, O Squib, he set out to explain that he
   meant "gneiss," not "nice!" The ignorance of
   these English about a joke is really wonderful. It
   is easy to see that they have never been brought
   up on them. But perhaps there was some excuse
   for the professor that day, for he was the president
   pro tem. of our projected temperance society, and
   as such he head been making a quantitative and
   qualitative analysis of another kind of quartz.

   So much for the chemist or metallurgist or
   something scientific. The gentleman and I get on
   better. His name is Beaver, which he persists
   in spelling Beauvoir. Ridiculous, isn't it? How
   easy it is to see that the English have never had
   the advantage of a good common-school education--so
   few of them can spell. Here's a man don't
   know how to spell his own name. And this shows
   how the race over there on the little island is degenerating.
   It was not so in other days. Shakspere,
   for instance, not only knew how to spell his
   own name, but--and this is another proof of his
   superiority to his contemporaries--he could spell
   it in half a dozen different ways.

   This Beaver is a clever fellow, and we get on
   first rate together. He is going to California for
   gold--like the rest of us. But I think he has had his
   share--and spent it. At any rate he has not much
   now. I have been teaching him poker, and I am
   afraid he won't have any soon. I have an idea he
   has been going pretty fast--and mostly down hill.
   But he has his good points. He is a gentleman
   all through, as you can see. Yes, friend Squibob,
   even you could see right through him. We are
   all going to California together, and I wonder
   which one of the three will turn up trumps first--Beaver,
   or the chemist, metallurgist or something
   scientific, or

   Yours respectfully, JOHN PHOENIX.

   P.S. You think this a stupid letter, perhaps,
   and not interesting. Just reflect on my surroundings.
   Besides, the interest will accumulate a good
   while before you get the missive. And I don't
   know how you ever are to get it, for there is
   no post-office near here, and on the Isthmus the
   mails are as uncertain as the females are everywhere.
   (I am informed that there is no postage on
   old jokes--so I let that stand.)
                                                    J.P.

DOCUMENT NO. 11.

Extract from the "Bone Gulch Palladium," June 3d, 1850:

Our readers may remember how frequently we have declared our firm belief in the future unexampled
prosperity of Bone Gulch. We saw it in the immediate future the metropolis of the Pacific Slope,
as it was intended by nature to be. We pointed out repeatedly that a time would come when Bone
Gulch would be an emporium of the arts and sciences and of the best society, even more than
it is now. We foresaw the time when the best men from the old cities of the East would come
flocking to us, passing with contempt the puny settlement of Deadhorse. But even we did not
so soon see that members of the aristocracy of the effete monarchies of despotic Europe would
acknowledge the undeniable advantages of Bone Gulch, and come here to stay permanently and
forever. Within the past week we have received here Hon. William Beaver, one of the first men
of Great Britain and Ireland, a statesman, an orator, a soldier and an extensive traveller.
He has come to Bone Gulch as the best spot on the face of the everlasting universe. It is needless
to say that our prominent citizens have received him with great cordiality. Bone Gulch is not
like Deadhorse. We know a gentleman when we see one.

Hon. Mr. Beaver is one of nature's noblemen; he is also related to the Royal Family of England.
He is a second cousin of the Queen, and boards at the Tower of London with her when at home.
We are informed that he has frequently taken the Prince of Wales out for a ride in his baby-wagon.

We take great pleasure in congratulating Bone Gulch on its latest acquisition. And we know
Hon. Mr. Beaver is sure to get along all right here under the best climate in the world and
with the noblest men the sun ever shone on.

DOCUMENT NO. 12.

Extract from the Dead Horse "Gazette and Courier of Civilization" of August 26th, 1850:

BONEGULCH'S BRITISHER.

Bonegulch sits in sackcloth and ashes and cools her mammoth cheek in the breezes of Colorado
canyon. The self-styled Emporium of the West has lost her British darling, Beaver Bill, the
big swell who was first cousin to the Marquis of Buckingham and own grandmother to the Emperor
of China, the man with the biled shirt and low-necked shoes. This curled darling of the Bonegulch
aristocrat-worshippers passed through Deadhorse yesterday, clean bust. Those who remember how
the four-fingered editor of the Bonegulch "Palladium" pricked up his ears and lifted up his
falsetto crow when this lovely specimen of the British snob first honored him by striking him
for a $ will appreciate the point of the joke.

It is said that the "Palladium" is going to come out, when it makes its next semi-occasional
appearance, in full mourning, with turned rules. For this festive occasion we offer Brother
B. the use of our late retired Spanish font, which we have discarded for the new and elegant
dress in which we appear to-day, and to which we have elsewhere called the attention of our
readers. It will be a change for the "Palladium's" eleven unhappy readers, who are getting
very tired of the old type cast for the Concha Mission in 1811, which tries to make up for
its lack of w's by a plentiful superfluity of greaser u's. How are you, Brother Biles?

"We don't know a gent when we see him." Oh no(?)!

DOCUMENT NO. 13.

Paragraph from "Police Court Notes," in the "New Centreville [late Dead Horse] Evening Gazette"
January 2d, 1858:

HYMENEAL HIGH JINKS.

William Beaver, better known ten years ago as "Beaver Bill," is now a quiet and prosperous
agriculturalist in the Steal Valley. He was, however, a pioneer in the 1849 movement, and a
vivid memory of this fact at times moves him to quit his bucolic labors and come in town for
a real old-fashioned tare. He arrived in New Centreville during Christmas week; and got married
suddenly, but not unexpectedly, yesterday morning. His friends took it upon themselves to celebrate
the joyful occasion, rare in the experience of at least one of the parties, by getting very
high on Irish Ike's whiskey and serenading the newly-married couple with fish-horns, horse-fiddles,
and other improvised musical instruments. Six of the participators in this epithalamial serenade,
namely, José Tanco, Hiram Scuttles, John P. Jones, Hermann Bumgardner, Jean Durant ("Frenchy"),
and Bernard McGinnis ("Big Barney"), were taken in tow by the police force, assisted by citizens,
and locked up over night, to cool their generous enthusiasm in the gloomy dungeons of Justice
Skinner's calaboose. This morning all were discharged with a reprimand, except Big Barney and
José Tanco, who, being still drunk, were allotted ten days in default of $10. The bridal pair
left this noon for the bridegroom's ranch.

DOCUMENT NO. 14.

Extract from "The New York Herald" for June 23d, 1861:

   THE RED SKINS.

   A BORDER WAR AT LAST!

   INDIAN INSURRECTION!

   RED DEVILS RISING!

   WOMEN AND CHILDREN SEEKING SAFETY IN THE LARGER
   TOWNS.

   HORRIBLE HOLOCAUSTS ANTICIPATED.

   BURYING THE HATCHET--IN THE WHITE MAN'S HEAD.

[SPECIAL DESPATCH TO THE NEW YORK HERALD.]

CHICAGO, June 22, 1861.

Great uneasiness exists all along the Indian frontier. Nearly all the regular troops have been
withdrawn from the West for service in the South. With the return of the warm weather it seems
certain that the red skins will take advantage of the opportunity thus offered, and inaugurate
a bitter and vindictive fight against the whites. Rumors come from the agencies that the Indians
are leaving in numbers. A feverish excitement among them has been easily to be detected. Their
ponies are now in good condition, and forage can soon be had in abundance on the prairie, if
it is not already. Everything points toward a sudden and startling outbreak of hostilities.

[SPECIAL DESPATCH TO THE NEW YORK HERALD.]

ST. PAUL, June 22, 1861.

The Sioux near here are all in a ferment. Experienced Indian fighters say the signs of a speedy
going on the war-path are not to be mistaken. No one can tell how soon the whole frontier may
be in a bloody blaze. The women and children are rapidly coming in from all exposed settlements.
Nothing overt as yet has transpired, but that the Indians will collide very soon with the settlers
is certain. All the troops have been withdrawn. In our defenceless state there is no knowing
how many lives may be lost before the regiments of volunteers now organizing can take the field.

   LATER.

   THE WAR BEGUN.

   FIRST BLOOD FOR THE INDIANS.

   THE SCALPING KNIFE AND THE TOMAHAWK AT WORK AGAIN.

[SPECIAL DESPATCH TO THE NEW YORK HERALD.]

BLACK WING AGENCY, June 22, 1861.

The Indians made a sudden and unexpected attack on the town of Coyote Hill, forty miles from
here, last night, and did much damage before the surprised settlers rallied and drove them
off. The red skins met with heavy losses. Among the whites killed are a man named William Beaver,
sometimes called Beaver Bill, and his wife. Their child, a beautiful little girl of two, was
carried off by the red rascals. A party has been made up to pursue them. Owing to their taking
their wounded with them, the trail is very distinct.

DOCUMENT NO. 15.

Letter from Mrs. Edgar Saville, in San Francisco, to Mr. Edgar Saville, in Chicago:

                            CAL. JARDINE'S

            Monster Variety and Dramatic Combination.

                             ON THE ROAD.

   G.W.K. McCULLUM,
                           Treasurer
   HI. SAMUELS,
                           Stage Manager.
   FNO. SHANKS,
                           Advance.

   No dates filled except with first-class houses.

   Hall owners will please consider silence a polite negative.

   SAN FRANCISCO, January 29, 1863.

   MY DEAR OLD MAN!--Here we are in our
   second week at Frisco and you will be glad to
   know playing to steadily increasing biz, having
   signed for two weeks more, certain. I didn't like
   to mention it when I wrote you last, but things
   were very queer after we left Denver, and "Treasury"
   was a mockery till we got to Bluefoot
   Springs, which is a mining town, where we showed
   in the hotel dining-room. Then there was a
   strike just before the curtain went up. The house
   was mostly miners in red shirts and very exacting.
   The sinews were forthcoming very quick my
   dear, and after that the ghost walked quite regular.
   So now everything is bright, and you wont
   have to worry if Chicago doesn't do the right
   thing by you.

   I don't find this engagement half as disagreeable
   as I expected. Of course it aint so very nice
   travelling in a combination with variety talent but
   they keep to themselves and we regular professionals
   make a happy family that Barnum would not
   be ashamed of and quite separate and comfortable.
   We don't associate with any of them only
   with The Unique Mulligans wife, because he beats
   her. So when he is on a regular she sleeps with
   me.

   And talking of liquor dear old man, if you knew
   how glad and proud I was to see you writing so
   straight and steady and beautiful in your three
   last letters. O, Im sure my darling if the boys
   thought of the little wife out on the road they
   wouldnt plague you so with the Enemy. Tell
   Harry Atkinson this from me, he has a good kind
   heart but he is the worst of your friends. Every
   night when I am dressing I think of you at
   Chicago, and pray you may never again go on the
   way you did that terrible night at Rochester.
   Tell me dear, did you look handsome in Horatio?
   You ought to have had Laertes instead of that
   duffing Merivale.

   And now I have the queerest thing to tell you.
   Jardine is going in for Indians and has secured six
   very ugly ones. I mean real Indians, not professional.
   They are hostile Comanshies or something
   who have just laid down their arms. They
   had an insurrection in the first year of the War,
   when the troops went East, and they killed all the
   settlers and ranches and destroyed the canyons
   somewhere out in Nevada, and when they were
   brought here they had a wee little kid with them
   only four or five years old, but so sweet. They stole
   her and killed her parents and brought her up for
   their own in the cunningest little moccasins. She
   could not speak a word of English except her own
   name which is Nina. She has blue eyes and all
   her second teeth. The ladies here made a great
   fuss about her and sent her flowers and worsted
   afgans, but they did not do anything else for her
   and left her to us.

   O dear old man you must let me have her!
   You never refused me a thing yet and she is so
   like our Avonia Marie that my heart almost breaks
   when she puts her arms around my neck--she calls
   me mamma already. I want to have her with us
   when we get the little farm--and it must be near,
   that little farm of ours--we have waited for it so
   long--and something tells me my own old faker
   will make his hit soon and be great. You cant
   tell how I have loved it and hoped for it and how
   real every foot of that farm is to me. And though
   I can never see my own darling's face among the
   roses it will make me so happy to see this poor
   dead mothers pet get red and rosy in the country
   air. And till the farm comes we shall always have
   enough for her, without your ever having to black
   up again as you did for me the winter I was sick
   my own poor boy!

   Write me yes--you will be glad when you see
   her. And now love and regards to Mrs. Barry and
   all friends. Tell the Worst of Managers that he
   knows where to find his leading juvenile for next
   season. Think how funny it would be for us to
   play together next year--we havent done it since
   '57--the third year we were married. That was
   my first season higher than walking--and now I'm
   quite an old woman--most thirty dear!

   Write me soon a letter like that last one--and
   send a kiss to Nina--our Nina.

   Your own girl,

   MARY.

   P.S. He has not worried me since.

PART THIRD:

DOCUMENT NO. 16.

Letter from Messrs. Throstlethwaite, Throstlethwaite and Dick, Solicitors, Lincoln's Inn, London,
England, to Messrs. Hitchcock and Van Rensselaer, Attorneys and Counsellors at Law, 76 Broadway,
New York, U.S.A.

   January 8, 1879.

   Messrs. HITCHCOCK & VAN RENSSELAER:

   GENTLEMEN: On the death of our late client, Sir
   William Beauvoir, Bart., and after the reading of
   the deceased gentleman's will, drawn up nearly
   forty years ago by our Mr. Dick, we were requested
   by Oliver Beauvoir, Esq., the second son of the
   late Sir William, to assist him in discovering and
   communicating with his elder brother, the present
   Sir William Beauvoir, of whose domicile we have
   little or no information.

   After a consultation between Mr. Oliver Beauvoir
   and our Mr. Dick, it was seen that the sole
   knowledge in our possession amounted substantially
   to this: Thirty years ago the elder son of
   the late baronet, after indulging in dissipation in
   every possible form, much to the sorrow of his respected
   parent, who frequently expressed as much
   to our Mr. Dick, disappeared, leaving behind him
   bills and debts of all descriptions, which we,
   under instructions from Sir William, examined,
   audited and paid. Sir William Beauvoir would
   allow no search to be made for his erring son and
   would listen to no mention of his name. Current
   gossip declared that he had gone to New York,
   where he probably arrived about midsummer,
   1848. Mr. Oliver Beauvoir thinks that he crossed
   to the States in company with a distinguished
   scientific gentleman, Professor Titus Peebles.
   Within a year after his departure news came that
   he had gone to California with Professor Peebles;
   this was about the time gold was discovered in the
   States. That the present Sir William Beauvoir
   did about this time actually arrive on the Pacific
   Coast in company with the distinguished scientific
   man above mentioned, we have every reason
   to believe: we have even direct evidence on the
   subject. A former junior clerk who had left us at
   about the same period as the disappearance of the
   elder son of our late client, accosted our Mr. Dick
   when the latter was in Paris last summer, and informed
   him (our Mr. Dick) that he (the former
   junior clerk) was now a resident of Nevada and a
   member of Congress for that county, and in the
   course of conversation he mentioned that he had
   seen Professor Peebles and the son of our late
   client in San Francisco, nearly thirty years ago.
   Other information we have none. It ought not to
   be difficult to discover Professor Peebles, whose
   scientific attainments have doubtless ere this been
   duly recognized by the U.S. government. As
   our late client leaves the valuable family estate in
   Lancashire to his elder son and divides the remainder
   equally between his two sons, you will
   readily see why we invoke your assistance in discovering
   the present domicile of the late baronet's
   elder son, or in default thereof, in placing in our
   hands such proof of his death as may be necessary
   to establish that lamentable fact in our probate
   court.

   We have the honour to remain, as ever, your
   most humble and obedient servants,

   THROSTLETHWAITE, THROSTLETHWAITE & DICK.

   P.S. Our late client's grandson, Mr. William
   Beauvoir, the only child of Oliver Beauvoir, Esq.,
   is now in the States, in Chicago or Nebraska or
   somewhere in the West. We shall be pleased if
   you can keep him informed as to the progress of
   your investigations. Our Mr. Dick has requested
   Mr. Oliver Beauvoir to give his son your address,
   and to suggest his calling on you as he passes
   through New York on his way home.

   T.T.& D.

DOCUMENT NO. 17.

Letter from Messrs. Hitchcock and Van Rensselaer, New York, to Messrs. Pixley and Sutton, Attorneys
and Counsellors at Law, 98 California Street, San Francisco, California.

   Law Offices of Hitchcock & Van Rensselaer,
   70 Broadway, New York,
   P.O. Box 4078.

   Jan. 22, 1879.

   Messrs. PIXLEY AND SUTTON:

   GENTLEMEN: We have just received from our
   London correspondents, Messrs. Throstlethwaite,
   Throstlethwaite and Dick, of Lincoln's Inn, London,
   the letter, a copy of which is herewith enclosed,
   to which we invite your attention. We request that
   you will do all in your power to aid us in the
   search for the missing Englishman. From the letter
   of Messrs. Throstlethwaite, Throstlethwaite and
   Dick, it seems extremely probable, not to say certain,
   that Mr. Beauvoir arrived in your city about
   1849, in company with a distinguished English
   scientist, Professor Titus Peebles, whose professional
   attainments were such that he is probably
   well known, if not in California, at least in some
   other of the mining States. The first thing to be
   done, therefore, it seems to us, is to ascertain the
   whereabouts of the professor, and to interview
   him at once. It may be that he has no knowledge
   of the present domicile of Mr. William Beauvoir--in
   which case we shall rely on you to take such
   steps as, in your judgment, will best conduce to a
   satisfactory solution of the mystery. In any event,
   please look up Professor Peebles, and interview
   him at once.

   Pray keep us fully informed by telegraph of your
   movements. Yr obt serv'ts,

   HITCHCOCK & VAN RENSSELAER.

DOCUMENT NO. 18.

                                            SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
                                            Jan. 30.

   Tite Peebles well known frisco not professor
   keeps faro bank.

                                           PIXLEY & SUTTON.
                                           (D.H. 919.)

DOCUMENT NO. 19.

Telegram from Messrs. Hitchcock and Van Rensselaer to Messrs. Pixley and Sutton, in answer
to the preceding.

                                           NEW YORK, Jan. 30.

   Must be mistake Titus Peebles distinguished
   scientist.

                                           HITCHCOCK & VAN RENSSELAER.
                                           (Free. Answer to D.H.)

DOCUMENT NO. 20.

Telegram from Messrs. Pixley and Sutton to Messrs. Hitchcock and Van Rensselaer. in reply to
the preceding.

                                           SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.,
                                           Jan. 30.

   No mistake distinguished faro banker suspected
   skin game shall we interview

                                           PIXLEY & SUTTON.
                                           (D.H. 919.)

DOCUMENT NO. 21.

                                           NEW YORK, Jan. 30.

   Must be mistake interview anyway

                                           HITCHCOCK & VAN RENSSELAER.
                                           (Free. Answer to D.H.)

DOCUMENT NO. 22.

Peebles out of town have written him

PIXLEY & SUTTON. (D.H. 919.)

DOCUMENT NO. 23.

Letter from Tite W. Peebles, delegate to the California Constitutional Convention, Sacramento,
to Messrs. Pixley and Sutton, 98 California Street, San Francisco, California.

                                           SACRAMENTO, Feb. 2, '79.

   Messrs. PIXLEY & SUTTON:
            San Francisco.

   GENTLEMEN: Your favor of the 31st ult., forwarded
   me from San Francisco, has been duly
   rec'd, and contents thereof noted.

   My time is at present so fully occupied by my
   duties as a delegate to the Constitutional Convention
   that I can only jot down a brief report of my
   recollections on this head. When I return to
   S.F., I shall be happy to give you any further information
   that may be in my possession.

   The person concerning whom you inquire was
   my fellow passenger on my first voyage to this
   State on board the Mercy G. Tarbox, in the latter
   part of the year. He was then known as Mr. William
   Beauvoir. I was acquainted with his history,
   of which the details escape me at this writing.
   He was a countryman of mine; a member of an
   important county family--Devonian, I believe--and
   had left England on account of large gambling
   debts, of which he confided to me the exact
   figure. I believe they totted up something like
   £14,500.

   I had at no time a very intimate acquaintance
   with Mr. Beauvoir; during our sojourn on the
   Tarbox, he was the chosen associate of a depraved
   and vicious character named Phoenix. I am not
   averse from saying that I was then a member of a
   profession rather different to my present one,
   being, in fact, professor of metallurgy, and I saw
   much less, at that period, of Mr. B. than I probably
   should now.

   Directly we landed at S.F., the object of your
   inquiries set out for the gold region, without adequate
   preparation, like so many others did at that
   time, and, I heard, fared very ill.

   I encountered him some six months later; I
   have forgotten precisely in what locality, though I
   have a faint impression that his then habitat was
   some canon or ravine, deriving its name from certain
   osseous deposits. Here he had engaged in
   the business of gold-mining, without, perhaps,
   sufficient grounds for any confident hope of ultimate
   success. I have his I.O.U. for the amount
   of my fee for assaying several specimens from his
   claim, said specimens being all iron pyrites.

   This is all I am able to call to mind at present
   in the matter of Mr. Beauvoir. I trust his subsequent
   career was of a nature better calculated to
   be satisfactory to himself; but his mineralogical
   knowledge was but superficial; and his character
   was sadly deformed by a fatal taste for low associates.

   I remain, gentlemen, your very humble and
   obd't servant,                         TITUS W. PEEBLES.

   P.S.--Private.

   MY DEAR PIX: If you don't feel inclined to
   pony up that little sum you are out on the bay
   gelding, drop down to my place when I get back
   and I'll give you another chance for your life at
   the pasteboards. Constitution going through.

                                Yours,                TITE.

PART FOURTH:

DOCUMENT NO. 24.

Extract from the New Centreville [late Dead Horse] "Gazette and Courier of Civilization," December
20th, 1878:

   "Miss Nina Saville appeared last night at the Mendocino
   Grand Opera House, in her unrivalled specialty of Winona
   the Child of the Prairies; supported by Tompkins and Frobisher's
   Grand Stellar Constellation. Although Miss Saville
   has long been known as one of the most promising of California's
   younger tragediennes, we feel safe in saying that the impression
   she produced upon the large and cultured audience
   gathered to greet her last night stamped her as one of the
   greatest and most phenomenal geniuses of our own or other
   times. Her marvellous beauty of form and feature, added to
   her wonderful artistic power, and her perfect mastery of the difficult
   science of clog-dancing, won her an immediate place in
   the hearts of our citizens, and confirmed the belief that California
   need no longer look to Europe or Chicago for dramatic
   talent of the highest order. The sylph-like beauty, the harmonious
   and ever-varying grace, the vivacity and the power of the
   young artist who made her maiden effort among us last night,
   prove conclusively that the virgin soil of California teems with
   yet undiscovered fires of genius. The drama of Winona, the
   Child of the Prairies, is a pure, refined, and thoroughly absorbing
   entertainment, and has been pronounced by the entire
   press of the country equal to if not superior to the fascinating
   Lady of Lyons. It introduces all the favorites of the company
   in new and original characters, and with its original music,
   which is a prominent feature, has already received over 200
   representations in the principal cities in the country. It abounds
   in effective situations, striking tableaux, and a most quaint and
   original concert entitled 'The Mule Fling,' which alone is worth
   the price of admission. As this is its first presentation in this
   city, the theatre will no doubt be crowded, and seats should be
   secured early in the day. The drama will be preceded by that
   prince of humorists, Mr. Billy Barker, in his humorous sketches
   and pictures from life."

We quote the above from our esteemed contemporary, the Mendocino Gazette, at the request of
Mr. Zeke Kilburn, Miss Saville's advance agent, who has still further appealed to us, not only
on the ground of our common humanity, but as the only appreciative and thoroughly informed
critics on the Pacific Slope to "endorse" this rather vivid expression of opinion. Nothing
will give us greater pleasure. Allowing for the habitual enthusiasm of our northern neighbor,
and for the well-known chaste aridity of Mendocino in respect of female beauty, we have no
doubt that Miss Nina Saville is all that the fancy, peculiarly opulent and active even for
an advance agent, of Mr. Kilburn has painted her, and is quite such a vision of youth, beauty,
and artistic phenomenality as will make the stars of Paris and Illinois pale their ineffectual
fires.

Miss Saville will appear in her "unrivalled specialty" at Hanks's New Centreville Opera House,
to-morrow night, as may be gathered, in a general way, from an advertisement in another column.

We should not omit to mention that Mr. Zeke Kilburn, Miss Saville's advance agent, is a gentleman
of imposing presence, elegant manners, and complete knowledge of his business. This information
may be relied upon as at least authentic, having been derived from Mr. Kilburn himself, to
which we can add, as our own contribution, the statement that Mr. Kilburn is a gentleman of
marked liberality in his ideas of spirituous refreshments, and of equal originality in his
conception of the uses, objects and personal susceptibilities of the journalistic profession.

DOCUMENT NO. 25.

Local Item from the "New Centreville Standard," December 20th, 1878:

Hon. William Beauvoir has registered at the United States Hotel. Mr. Beauvoir is a young English
gentleman of great wealth, now engaged in investigating the gigantic resources of this great
country. We welcome him to New Centreville.

DOCUMENT NO. 26.

Programme of the performance given in the Centreville Theatre, Dec. 21st, 1878:

    HANKS' NEW CENTREVILLE OPERA HOUSE

    A. Jackson Hanks.....................Sole Proprietor and Manager.

    FIRST APPEARANCE IN THIS CITY OF TOMPKINS & FROBISHER'S GRAND
    STELLAR CONSTELLATION,

    Supporting California's favorite daughter, the young American
    Tragedienne,

    MISS NINA SAVILLE,

    Who will appear in Her Unrivalled Specialty,

    "Winona, the Child of the Prairie."

    THIS EVENING, DECEMBER 21st, 1878,

    Will be presented, with the following phenomenal cast, the accepted
    American Drama,

    WINONA: THE CHILD OF THE PRAIRIE.

    WINONA.................................................... Miss
    FLORA MacMADISON..................................... BIDDY
    FLAHERTY........................................... OLD AUNT DINAH
    (with Song, "Don't Get Weary").............Miss NINA SALLY
    HOSKINS............................................. SAVILLE (With
    the old-time melody, "Bobbin' Around.") POOR JOE (with
    Song)...................................... FRAULINE LINA
    BOOBENSTEIN................................. (With stammering song,
    "I yoost landet.") SIR EDMOND BENNETT (specially
    engaged)................E.C. GRAINGER WALTON
    TRAVERS.........................................G.W. PARSONS GIPSY
    JOE..................................................M. ISAACS
    'ANNIBAL 'ORACE 'IGGINS................................BILLY BARKER
    TOMMY TIPPER.....................................Miss MAMIE SMITH
    PETE, the Man on the Dock................................SI HANCOCK
    Mrs. MALONE, the Old Woman in the Little House.... Mrs. K.Y. BOOTH
    ROBERT BENNETT (aged five)......................Little ANNIE WATSON

    Act I.--The Old Home. Act II.--Alone in the World. Act III.--The
    Frozen Gulf: THE GREAT ICEBERG SENSATION. Act IV.--Wedding Bells.

    "Winona, the Child of the Prairie," will be preceded by

    A FAVORITE FARCE,

    In which the great BILLY BARKER will appear in one of his most
    outrageously funny bits.

    New Scenery......................by....................Q.Z. Slocum

    Music by Professor Kiddoo's Silver Bugle Brass Band and Philharmonic
    Orchestra.

    Chickway's Grand Piano, lent by Schmidt, 2 Opera House Block.

    AFTER THE SHOW, GO TO HANKS' AND SEE A MAN

    Pop Williams, the only legitimate Bill-Poster in New Centreville.

    (New Centreville Standard Print.)

DOCUMENT NO. 27. Shortly afterwards, it may also be remembered, we made a very direct and decided
apology for the sceptical levity which inspired those remarks, and expressed our hearty sympathy
with the honest, if somewhat effusive, enthusiasm with which the dramatic critic of Mendocino
greeted the sweet and dainty little girl who threw over the dull, weary old business of the
stage "sensation" the charm of a fresh and childlike beauty and originality, as rare and delicate
as those strange, unreasonable little glimmers of spring sunsets that now and then light up
for a brief moment the dull skies of winter evenings, and seem to have strayed into ungrateful
January out of sheer pity for the sad earth.

Mendocino noticed the facts that form the basis of the above meteorological simile, and we
believe we gave Mendocino full credit for it at the time. We refer to the matter at this date
only because in our remarks of a few days ago we had occasion to mention the fact of the existence
of Mr. Zeke Kilburn, an advance agent, who called upon us at the time, to endeavor to induce
us, by means apparently calculated more closely for the latitude of Mendocino, to extend to
Miss Saville, before her appearance, the critical approbation which we gladly extended after.
This little item of interest we alluded to at the time, and furthermore intimated, with some
vagueness, that there existed in Kilburn's character a certain misdirected zeal combined with
a too keen artistic appreciation, are apt to be rather dangerous stock-in trade for an advance
agent.

It was twenty seven minutes past two o'clock yesterday afternoon. The chaste white mystery
of Shigo Mountain was already taking on a faint, almost imperceptible, hint of pink, like the
warm cheek of a girl who hears a voice and anticipates a blush. Yet the rays of the afternoon
sun rested with undiminished radiance on the empty pork-barrel in front of McMullin's shebang.
A small and vagrant infant, whose associations with empty barrels were doubtless hitherto connected
solely with dreams of saccharine dissipation, approached the bunghole with precocious caution,
and retired with celerity and a certain acquisition of experience. An unattached goat, a martyr
to the radical theory of personal investigation, followed in the footsteps of infantile humanity,
retired with even greater promptitude, and was fain to stay its stomach on a presumably empty
rend-rock can, afterward going into seclusion behind McMullin's horse-shed, before the diuretic
effect of tin flavored with blasting-powder could be observed by the attentive eye of science.

Mr. Kilburn emerged from the hostlery without Mr. McMullin. Mr. Kilburn, as we have before
stated at his own request, is a gentleman of imposing presence. It is well that we made this
statement when we did, for it is hard to judge of the imposing quality in a gentleman's presence
when that gentleman is suspended from the arm of another gentleman by the collar of the first
gentleman's coat. The gentleman in the rear of Mr. Kilburn was Mr. William Beauvoir, a young
Englishman in a check suit. Mr. Beauvoir is not avowedly a man of imposing presence; he wears
a seal ring, and he is generally a scion of an effete oligarchy, but he has, since his introduction
into this community, behaved himself, to use the adjectivial adverb of Mr. McMullin, white,
and he has a very remarkable biceps. These qualities may hereafter enhance his popularity in
New Centreville.

Mr. Beauvoir's movements, at twenty-seven minutes past two yesterday afternoon, were few and
simple. He doubled Mr. Kilburn up, after the fashion of an ordinary jack-knife, and placed
him in the barrel, wedge-extremity first, remarking, as he did so, "She is, is she?" He then
rammed Mr. Kilburn carefully home, and put the cover on.

We learn to-day that Mr. Kilburn has resumed his professional duties on the road.

DOCUMENT NO. 28.

Account of the same event from the New Centreville "Standard" December 24th, 1878:

It seems strange that even the holy influences which radiate from this joyous season cannot
keep some men from getting into unseemly wrangles. It was only yesterday that our local saw
a street row here in the quiet avenues of our peaceful city--a street row recalling the riotous
scenes which took place here before Dead Horse experienced a change of heart and became New
Centreville. Our local succeeded in gathering all the particulars of the affray, and the following
statement is reliable. It seems that Mr. Kilburn, the gentlemanly and affable advance agent
of the Nina Saville Dramatic Company, now performing at Andy Hanks' Opera House to big houses,
was brutally assaulted by a ruffianly young Englishman, named Beauvoir, for no cause whatever.
We say for no cause, as it is obvious that Mr. Kilburn, as the agent of the troupe, could have
said nothing against Miss Saville which an outsider, not to say a foreigner like Mr. Beauvoir,
had any call to resent. Mr. Kilburn is a gentleman unaccustomed to rough-and-tumble encounters,
while his adversary has doubtless associated more with pugilists than gentlemen--at least any
one would think so from his actions yesterday. Beauvoir hustled Mr. Kilburn out of Mr. McMullin's,
where the unprovoked assault began, and violently shook him across the new plank sidewalk.
The person by the name of Clark, whom Judge Jones for some reason now permits to edit the moribund
but once respectable Gazette, caught the eye of the congenial Beauvoir, and, true to the ungentlemanly
instincts of his base nature, pointed to a barrel in the street. The brutal Englishman took
the hint and thrust Mr. Kilburn forcibly into the barrel, leaving the vicinity before Mr. Kilburn,
emerging from his close quarters, had fully recovered. What the ruffianly Beauvoir's motive
may have been for this wanton assault it is impossible to say; but it is obvious to all why
this fellow Clark sought to injure Mr. Kilburn, a gentleman whose many good qualities he of
course fails to appreciate. Mr. Kilburn, recognizing the acknowledged merits of our job-office,
had given us the contract for all the printing he needed in New Centreville.

DOCUMENT NO. 29.

Advertisement from the New York "Clipper" Dec. 21st, 1878:

    WINSTON & MACK'S GRAND INTERNATIONAL MEGATHERIUM VARIETY
    COMBINATION. COMPANY CALL.

    Ladies and Gentlemen of the Company will assemble for rehearsal, at
    Emerson's Opera House, San Francisco, on Wednesday, Dec 27th, 12 M
    sharp. Band at 11. J.B. WINSTON EDWIN R. MACK--Managers. Emerson's
    Opera House, San Francisco, Dec. 10th, 1878. Protean Artist wanted.
    Would like to hear from Nina Saville. 12-11.

DOCUMENT NO. 30.

Letter from Nina Saville to William Beauvoir.

                                      NEW CENTREVILLE, December 26, 1878.

   My Dear Mr. Beauvoir--I was very sorry to
   receive your letter of yesterday--very sorry--because
   there can be only one answer that I can
   make--and you might well have spared me the
   pain of saying the word--No. You ask me if I love
   you. If I did--do you think it would be true
   love in me to tell you so, when I know what it
   would cost you? Oh indeed you must never
   marry me! In your own country you would
   never have heard of me--never seen me--surely
   never written me such a letter to tell me that you
   love me and want to marry me. It is not that I
   am ashamed of my business or of the folks around
   me, or ashamed that I am only the charity child
   of two poor players, who lived and died working
   for the bread for their mouths and mine. I am
   proud of them--yes, proud of what they did and
   suffered for one poorer than themselves--a little
   foundling out of an Indian camp. But I know
   the difference between you and me. You are a
   great man at home--you have never told me how
   great--but I know your father is a rich lord, and I
   suppose you are. It is not that I think you care
   for that, or think less of me because I was born
   different from you. I know how good--how
   kind--how respectful you have always been to
   me--my lord--and I shall never forget it--for a girl
   in my position knows well enough how you might
   have been otherwise. Oh believe me--my true
   friend--I am never going to forget all you have
   done for me--and how good it has been to have
   you near me--a man so different from most others.
   I don't mean only the kind things you have
   done--the books and the thoughts and the ways
   you have taught me to enjoy--and all the trouble
   you have taken to make me something better than
   the stupid little girl I was when you found me--but
   a great deal more than that--the consideration
   you have had for me and for what I hold best in the
   world. I had never met a gentleman before--and
   now the first one I meet--he is my friend. That is
   a great deal.

   Only think of it! You have been following me
   around now for three months, and I have been
   weak enough to allow it. I am going to do the
   right thing now. You may think it hard in me if
   you really mean what you say, but even if everything
   else were right, I would not marry you--because
   of your rank. I do not know how things are at
   your home--but something tells me it would be
   wrong and that your family would have a right to
   hate you and never forgive you. Professionals
   cannot go in your society. And that is even if I
   loved you--and I do not love you--I do not love
   you--I do not love you--now I have written it you
   will believe it.

   So now it is ended--I am going back to the line
   I was first in--variety--and with a new name. So
   you can never find me--I entreat you--I beg of
   you--not to look for me. If you only put your
   mind to it--you will find it so easy to forget me--for
   I will not do you the wrong to think that you
   did not mean what you wrote in your letter or
   what you said that night when we sang Annie Laurie
   together the last time.
                               Your sincere friend,
                                                          NINA.

DOCUMENTS NOS. 31 AND 32.

Items from San Francisco "Figaro" of December 29th, 1878:

Nina Saville Co. disbanded New Centreville. 26th. No particulars received.

Winston & Mack's Comb. takes the road December 31st, opening at Tuolumne Hollow. Manager Winston
announces the engagement of Anna Laurie, the Protean change artiste, with songs, "Don't Get
Weary," "Bobbin' Around," "I Yoost Landet."

DOCUMENT NO. 33.

Telegram from Zeke Kilburn, New Centreville, to Winston and Mack, Emerson's Opera House, San
Francisco, Cal.:

                                           NEW CENTREVILLE, Dec. 28, 1878.

   Have you vacancy for active and energetic advance
   agent.

                                           Z. KILBURN.
                                           (9 words 30 paid.)

DOCUMENT NO. 34.

Telegram from Winston and Mack, San Francisco, to Zeke Kilburn, New Centreville:

                                           SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 28, 1878

   No

                                           WINSTON & MACK.
                                           (Collect 30 cents.)

DOCUMENT NO. 35.

Bill sent to William Beauvoir, United States Hotel, Tuolumne Hollow, Cal.:

                           Tuolumne Hollow, Cal., Dec. 29, 1878.

   Wm. Beauvoir, Esq.

                               Bought of HIMMEL & HATCH,
                               Opera House Block,
                               JEWELLERS & DIAMOND MERCHANTS,

   Dealers in all kinds of Fancy Goods, Stationery and Umbrellas, Watches,
                                   Clocks and Barometers.

   TERMS CASH.                                    MUSICAL BOXES REPAIRED.

   Dec. 29, One diamond and enamelled locket......... $75.00
   One gold chain........................................... 48.00

                                                                  $123.00

                                      Rec'd Payt.
                                                         Himmel & Hatch,
                                                                 per S.

PART FIFTH:

DOCUMENT NO. 36.

Letter from Cable J. Dexter, Esq., to Messrs: Pixley and Sutton, San Francisco:

                        NEW CENTREVILLE, CAL., March 3, 1879.

   Messrs. PIXLEY & SUTTON:

   GENTS: I am happy to report that I have at last
   reached the bottom level in the case of William
   Beaver, alias Beaver Bill, deceased through Indians
   in 1861.

   In accordance with your instructions and check,
   I proceeded, on the 10th ult., to Shawgum Creek,
   when I interviewed Blue Horse, chief of the Comanches,
   who tomahawked subject of your inquiries
   in the year above mentioned. Found the Horse
   in the penitentiary, serving out a drunk and disorderly.
   Though belligerent at date aforesaid,
   Horse is now tame, though intemperate. Appeared
   unwilling to converse, and required stimulants
   to awaken his memory. Please find enclosed
   memo. of account for whiskey, covering extra
   demijohn to corrupt jailer. Horse finally stated
   that he personally let daylight through deceased,
   and is willing to guarantee thoroughness of decease.
   Stated further that aforesaid Beaver's
   family consisted of squaw and kid. Is willing to
   swear that squaw was killed, the tribe having no
   use for her. Killing done by Mule-Who-Goes-Crooked,
   personal friend of Horse's. The minor
   child was taken into camp and kept until December
   of 1863, when tribe dropped to howling cold
   winter and went on government reservation. Infant
   (female) was then turned over to U.S. Government
   at Fort Kearney.

   I posted to last named locality on the 18th ult.
   and found by the quartermaster's books that, no
   one appearing to claim the kid, she had been duly
   indentured, together with six Indians, to a man
   by the name of Guardine or Sardine (probably the
   latter), in the show business. The Indians were
   invoiced as Sage Brush Jimmy, Boiling Hurricane,
   Mule-Who-Goes-Crooked, Joe, Hairy Grasshopper
   and Dead Polecat. Child known as White Kitten.
   Receipt for Indians was signed by Mr. Hi.
   Samuels, who is still in the circus business, and
   whom I happen to be selling out at this moment,
   at suit of McCullum & Montmorency, former partners.
   Samuels positively identified kid with variety
   specialist by name of Nina Saville, who has
   been showing all through this region for a year
   past.

   I shall soon have the pleasure of laying before
   you documents to establish the complete chain of
   evidence, from knifing of original subject of your
   inquiries right up to date.

   I have to-day returned from New Centreville,
   whither I went after Miss Saville. Found she had
   just skipped the town with a young Englishman
   by the name of Bovoir, who had been paying her
   polite attentions for some time, having bowied or
   otherwise squelched a man for her within a week
   or two. It appears the young woman had refused
   to have anything to do with him for a long
   period; but he seems to have struck pay gravel
   about two days before my arrival. At present,
   therefore, the trail is temporarily lost; but I expect
   to fetch the couple if they are anywhere this side
   of the Rockies.

   Awaiting your further instructions, and cash
   backing thereto, I am, gents, very resp'y yours,

   CABLE J. DEXTER.

DOCUMENT NO. 37

Envelope of letter from Sir Oliver Beauvoir, Bart., to his son, William Beauvoir:

                      Sent to Dead Letter Office.

          Mr. William Beauvoir
                 Sherman House Hotel
                          Chicago
        United States of America

not here try Brevoort House N.Y.

DOCUMENT NO. 38.

Letter contained in the envelope above:

                                        CHELSWORTH COTTAGE, March 30, 1879.

   MY DEAR BOY: In the sudden blow which has
   come upon us all I cannot find words to write.
   You do not know what you have done. Your
   uncle William, after whom you were named, died
   in America. He left but one child, a daughter,
   the only grandchild of my father except you.
   And this daughter is the Miss Nina Saville with
   whom you have formed so unhappy a connection.
   She is your own cousin. She is a Beauvoir. She
   is of our blood, as good as any in England.

   My feelings are overpowering. I am choked by
   the suddenness of this great grief. I cannot write
   to you as I would. But I can say this: Do not
   let me see you or hear from until this stain be
   taken from our name.

   OLIVER BEAUVOIR.

DOCUMENT NO. 39.

Cable dispatch of William Beauvoir, Windsor Hotel, New York, to Sir Oliver Beauvoir, Bart.,
Chelsworth Cottage, Suffolk, England:

                                           NEW YORK, May 1, 1879.

   Have posted you Herald.

                                           WILLIAM BEAUVOIR.

DOCUMENT NO. 40.

Advertisement under head of "Marriages," from the New York "Herald," April 30th, 1879:

BEAUVOIR--BEAUVOIR.--On Wednesday, Jan. 1st, 1879, at Steal Valley, California, by the Rev.
Mr. Twells, William Beauvoir, only son of Sir Oliver Beauvoir, of Chelsworth Cottage, Surrey,
England, to Nina, only child of the late William Beauvoir, of New Centreville, Cal.

DOCUMENT NO. 41.

Extract from the New York "Herald" of May 29th, 1879:

Among the passengers on the outgoing Cunard steamer Gallia, which left New York on Wednesday,
was the Honorable William Beauvoir, only son of Sir Oliver Beauvoir, Bart., of England. Mr.
Beauvoir has been passing his honeymoon in this city, and, with his charming bride, a famous
California belle, has been the recipient of many cordial courtesies from members of our best
society. Mr. William Beauvoir is a young man of great promise and brilliant attainments, and
is a highly desirable addition to the large and constantly increasing number of aristocratic
Britons who seek for wives among the lovely daughters of Columbia. We understand that the bridal
pair will take up their residence with the groom's father, at his stately country-seat, Chelsworth
Manor, Suffolk.

ONE OF THE THIRTY PIECES.

BY WILLIAM HENRY BISHOP.

I.

GRUYÈRE'S.

In the spring of the year 1870 the premium on gold had fallen so low that it began to be thought
by sanguine people that specie payments would be resumed at once. Silver in considerable quantities
actually came into circulation. Restaurants, cigar-stands, and establishments dealing in the
lighter articles of merchandise paid it out in change, by way of an extra inducement to customers.

On one of these days Henry Barwood, a treasury clerk, and Megilp, the rather well-known picture
restorer, met by accident at the door of Gruyère's restaurant. Gruyère's place, although in
the business quarter, is not supported to any great extent by the hurrying throng of bankers',
brokers', merchants', and lawyers' clerks who overrun the vicinity every day at lunch-time.
It is a rather leisurely resort, frequented by well-to-do importers, musicians, and artists,
people who have travelled, and whose affairs admit of considerable deliberation and repose.
Barwood in former times had been in the habit of going there occasionally to air his amateur
French, burn a spoonful of brandy in his coffee, and enjoy an economical foretaste of Paris.
Returned to New York after a considerable absence, to spend his vacation at home, he was inclined
to renew this with other old associations.

Megilp, sprung from a race which has supplied the world with a large share of its versatility
of talent and its adventurous proclivities, was familiarly known at Gruyère's as "Mac." He
was removed above want by the possession of an income sufficient, with some ingenuity of management,
to provide him with the bare necessaries of life.

He found leisure to come every day to retail the gossip of the studios, and fortify himself
for the desultory labors in which he was engaged. He liked the society of young men for several
reasons. For one thing, they were more free with their purses than his older cronies. The association,
he also thought, threw a sort of glamour of youth about his own person. Finally, they listened
to the disquisitions and artistic rhapsodies in which he was fond of indulging, with an attention
by no means accorded by his compeers.

Barwood was of a speculative turn of mind, and had also by nature a strong leaning towards
whatever was curious and out of the common. These proclivities Megilp's conversation, pursuits,
and studio full of trumpery were calculated to gratify. A moderate sort of friendship had in
consequence sprung up between them.

They made mutual protestations of pleasure at this meeting. Barwood considered it an occasion
worthy of a bottle of Dry Verzenay, which was not demurred to by Megilp.

The payment of specie was so entire a novelty that, when the inquiries and explanations natural
after a long separation were concluded, it was among the first topics touched upon.

"Sure it's the first hard money I've seen these ten years, so it is," said Megilp.

"That is my case also," said Barwood. "I took as little interest in the matter as any boy of
fourteen might be expected to; but I remember very well how rapidly specie disappeared at the
beginning of the war."

"And where has it been?" said Megilp. "There's many fine points of interest about it, do you
see. Consider the receptacles in which it has been hoarded--the secret places in chimneys,
under floors and under ground, the vaults, old stockings, cabinets, and caskets that have teemed
and glittered with it. Then there's the characters again, of all its various owners: the timid
doubters about the government, the speculators, the curiosity hunters, the misers"--

"Yes," said Barwood, "the history of a single one of these pieces for the period would probably
make a story full of interest." It did not detract from the value of Megilp's conversation,
in Barwood's view, that the worthy artist said "foine" and "hoorded" instead of adopting the
more conventional pronunciation.

"But what I'm after telling you isn't the singular part of it at all," resumed Megilp, taking
some silver from his pocket and evidently settling down to the subject. "What is ten years
to it? According to the mint reports a coin of the precious metals loses by wear and tear but
one twenty-four hundredth of its bulk in a year. These pieces I hold in my hand, coined forty
years ago, are scarcely defaced. In another forty they will be hardly more so. What, for instance,
has been the career of this Mexican dollar? Perhaps it was struck from bullion fresh from a
Mexican mine. In that case I have nothing to say. But just as likely it was struck from old
Spanish plate or from former coin, and then it takes us back to the earliest times, and its
origin is lost in obscurity. The same metal is time after time re-melted, re-cast, re-stamped,
and thus maintained in perpetual youth. This gold piece upon my watch-chain was perchance coined
from the sands of the Pactolus, and once bore Chaldaean characters. And to what uses has it
come? And yet why not? We ourselves have come down to commonplace usages; why should not the
works of our hands? You with your conventional hat and English walking-coat, I with my spectacles
and Irish brogue, have had ancestors that wore coats of mail in the first crusade, or twanged
cross-bows with Robin Hood, sailed in the ships of Tarshish, and traded to Tyre and Sidon."

"You think, then," said Barwood, "that some part of the coinage of antiquity is still in circulation."

"To be sure I do, don't I tell you? I say the precious metals are indestructible. All the coins
that have figured prominently in history are in some shape or other among us still. Twenty-four
hundred years of active use are needed to wear out a coin completely. How long will it last
with moderate use, and with intervals of lying buried for hundreds of years, as much of the
coinage of antiquity now extant in its original condition has done? We have among us the rings,
bolts, chains bracelets, drinking-vessels, and vases that glitter in the narratives of all
the chroniclers, and embody the pomp and luxury of all the ages.

"My silver dollar here, which I ring upon Gruyère's table, and with which, had it not been
for your amiable politeness, I should have paid for my frugal lunch, has haply been moulded
in Cellini's dagger-hilts or crucifixes, or formed part of a pirate's booty from a scuttled
galleon on the Spanish Main. For aught I know, it was current money in Nineveh and Babylon.
Perhaps it is one of the pieces paid by Abraham to the children of Heth for the double cave
that looked towards Mamre."

"Or one of the pieces for which Judas betrayed the Master," suggested Barwood.

Megilp looked startled, and involuntarily pushed the money away from him. "That is a singular
fancy of yours."

"It came to me quite spontaneously this moment," said Barwood. "I don't know but it is, and
yet it was a very natural sequence from what preceded."

Both were abstracted for some moments, and contemplated in silence the bubbles twisting up
the stems of the delicate wine-glasses.

"Do you suppose," finally said Barwood, "that those coins, if extant, carry with them an enduring
curse?"

"There's no good in them, you may depend," said the other. By this time both bottle and plates
were empty. The train of thought they had been pursuing seemed to have found its climax in
the turn given it by Barwood. Over their coffee and dessert they discussed more cheerful topics.

"Come around to my place before you leave town," said Megilp, as they shook hands at parting.
"I have a one-legged bronze Hercules from Pompeii. I think ye'll enjoy it."

As he hobbled away he muttered to himself more than once, "It's the divil's own fancy, so it is."

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

ETHEREAL CLAIMS.

The business of the Bureau of Ethereal Claims at Washington was conducted by a moderate force
of clerks, under the direction of General Bellwether. The general had been a little of everything
in his time. At the outbreak of the war he abandoned an unprofitable insurance agency to raise
a company. He displayed considerable courage and strategic talent in his campaigning, came
out a brevet brigadier, and had been making a good thing of it ever since in the government
service. The office bristled with military titles. Everybody except Barwood and Judge Montane
was either colonel, major, or captain. As to the judge, a middle-aged, uncommunicative man
who was known to be supporting a large family, he confessed one day over a bottle, ordered
in by the bureau during the general's absence, that his title was chiefly honorary.

"What court did you used to be judge of, Montane?" inquired young Mars Brown.

"I'll tell you, boys," replied the judge, yielding to the genial influences of the occasion;
"I'm just no judge at all, do you see, except may be as I'd be a good judge of whiskey or the
like."

It was doubtful whether the claims of some others of the number could have been much better
established.

Mars Brown, son of the senator of that name,--a man whose influence few generals or bureaus
of claims could afford to disregard,--was naturally the most privileged character in the office.
He chatted familiarly with the general when that irregular chief was present, absented himself
for several days at a time with perfect unconcern, came late in the morning, and went early,
as he explained, to make up for it. He was a handsome fellow, thoroughly confident of himself,
and companionable. He displayed, among other accomplishments, an acquaintance with the manners
and customs of horses and dogs, and a facility in the management of boats, guns, and fishing
tackle that made him an indisputable authority on all matters of the sort. His stock of stories
was immense, his wit always ready and very comical. He could convulse a dinner-party when everything
else failed, by making ridiculous faces. Among ladies of all ages he was a sort of conquering
hero. He was consequently in general social demand as the life of the company.

Such was Mars Brown, whom Barwood, shortly after his return to Washington, began to regard
with distrust and dislike, as a possible rival in the quarter where his affections were chiefly
centred.

It might have been expected, from the general's excessive preoccupation with lobbyists and
politicians, that the business of the bureau should languish, and so it did. The brunt of it
was borne by a few clerks--of whom Barwood was not one--whose tenure of office depended upon
efficient work rather than upon influential backing. Government work must be performed by somebody,
and it happens that, in spite of the great principle of rotation, the heads of men of undeniable
usefulness rest firm upon their shoulders while hundreds are toppling all about them.

The bureau was not without spasmodic attempts at discipline. The general spent an occasional
forenoon in lying in wait for delinquents, whose shortcomings he made the text for some very
forcible remarks. The business of the office, he would state warmly, should be attended to,
or he would make unpleasant theological arrangements for himself if he didn't know the reason
why. With Brown he never went much further than to request, as a personal favor, that he would
try to be on hand a little oftener and rather earlier, to which Brown always acceded quite
cordially.

Admirable punctuality of attendance and of office hours was almost always observed for a couple
of days after these formalities, and then things resumed the even tenor of their way.

Whatever might be the effect of this state of affairs upon the other employés of the office
and upon the general public, it was certainly disastrous to the private interests of Henry
Barwood. Naturally of an unpractical, somewhat morbid disposition, he needed the stimulus of
a business life in which the necessity for action and its results when performed were constantly
apparent. If engaged in his own ventures, taking risks and devising plans, he might have abandoned
his speculations and fancies, and become a man of affairs. As it was, he found too much opportunity
for their indulgence.

Every day from nine to three he assorted, copied, and made abstracts of applications and reports,
the objects of which were remote, their expediency questionable, and their ultimate fate problematical.
Without interest in the work and without any particular pressure for its performance, he dreamed
over it, and often awoke from his reveries to find his figures inaccurate and his sentences
meaningless.

Morbid people are probably as incomprehensible to themselves as to others. The world is viewed
by each through the medium of his own ill-adjusted temperament. Objects are seen in a strangely
tinted light, which is more than suspected to be delusive, yet cannot be decolorized. Barwood's
vision was affected by such a distorting influence. He discovered subtle meanings in ordinary
things or circumstances, in the manner of a nod from an acquaintance or the tone of a remark,
and brooded over them. He continually scrutinized and questioned his own motives and those
of others.

The mind of every human being is a puzzle to every other. With what is it occupied when left
to its own devices? There is, in Barwood's handwriting,[1] proof that his brain was filled
with a procession of changing activities and impressions which were for the most part melancholy,--aspirations
for fame, distrust in his own powers, forecasting of probabilities, repining for past sins
and follies, rage and epithets for imaginary meetings with enemies. In the midst of all there
were moments of perfect peace made up of reminiscences of a high-porticoed house, the grass-grown
wheel-tracks and the sandy beach of the village on the Connecticut coast where his early home
had been. His fancies were rich and full, but slightly chaotic. So also his will was strong
and imperious at times, but vacillating.

It could not be said that he was not ambitious He would have desired success in order to secure
a kindly recognition and to obviate the jars and harshness of life. But no one prevailing impulse
had ever enlisted his full powers. He saved money, with a general indefinite notion of some
day becoming a capitalist, and also gave much time to studies of various sorts. He learned
music among the rest, after coming of age, and composed music of his own, using as an inspiration
a favorite poem, picture, or character. These compositions were marked by a quaintness like
that--if a comparison may be made to something tangible--, of a Chinese vase or a broken bronze
figure. His family, the Barwoods, had been from the earliest times a race of shrewd and driving
New England storekeepers, the very antipodes of sentiment and dilettanteism. Such incongruities
are among the compensations of nature. The Holbrook farm was the one locality, and Nina Holbrook
the one figure, in the generally sombre prospect which Barwood saw about him, that gleamed
in sunshine. By the interposition of Mars Brown these also were presently shadowed.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: From entries in a carefully kept diary.]

       *       *       *       *       *

III.

THE SEARCH.

It would have been strange, with Barwood's habits of retrospection and continual casting about
for the rare and curious, if the subject matter of his conversation with the old painter at
Gruyère's had not taken some hold upon his imagination. But to explain the rapidity with which
the notion there suggested grew, and the absorbing interest with which it finally held him,
would be difficult. The influence of the mind upon the body is known. By persistent direction
of thought one can both create and cure a pain in any specific spot of his organism. The mind
has a similar power over itself. By intense concentration upon one subject it may suspend and
finally destroy its faculty of interest in any and all others.

The idea that the price of the treason of Judas is still extant and current in these every-day,
commonplace times is at first sight utterly incongruous and incredible, perhaps a little sacrilegious.
Yet it is evidently plausible. "The precious metals are indeed indestructible, as Megilp has
said," soliloquized Barwood. "They do not oxidize. The most violent excesses of the elements
have no effect upon them. If not still extant, where then are the treasures of the ages?

"Buried under ground or in the ocean.

"What proportion of the whole has been thus disposed of?

"In the absence of statistics a definite amount cannot be stated, but from the nature of the
case it cannot be large. This form of wealth has been too highly esteemed, too jealously guarded,
and too rigorously sought for when lost. In the wars and convulsions of society it has changed
hands but it could not be destroyed. Alexander and Tamerlane and Timour the Tartar and Mahomet
might overrun the world, burning and destroying, and melting its more fragile riches like frost-work.
But the money of the vanquished was useful to the victor for his own purposes. Rome took from
Alexander, the barbarians from Rome, and modern civilization from the barbarians. The waves
of time roll over and engulf all the monuments of men, all that gold and silver buy and sell,
and, as it were, create; but these irrepressible tokens themselves float and glitter in the
foam-crests upon those very billows. It cannot, then, be doubted that the instruments and accompaniments
of most of the pomp and luxury, the war, treasons, and varied mercenary crimes of the world,
are still acting their part in it.

"And why not with the rest the fatal money which Judas cast down before the chief priests in
his remorse, going out to destroy himself?"

These were the reflections that recurred again and again to Barwood, and possessed him with
a strange fascination. All coins acquired a new and intense interest. He saw in each the exponent
of centuries of human passions and activities. It is true that in a country like our own a
large part of the coinage is fresh from the mine. Yet his occasional encounters with foreign,
especially Mexican and Canadian pieces, and a consideration of the immense sums received at
the great ports of entry, were, in his regard, sufficient to leaven the whole.

Is there anywhere in literature an account of the subsequent career of the thirty pieces?

The Capitol library, one of the most complete collections in the world, offers unlimited facilities
for research. There Barwood was to be found some part of every day for months.

The writer has seen a list of the works consulted by him in his singular investigation. It
numbers some hundreds, and includes commentaries of all sorts upon the Gospels, lives of the
apostles, collections of apocryphal Gospels and Scriptural traditions, the works of the early
fathers, chronicles of the Middle Ages, treatises upon Oriental life and customs, histories
of symbolism and Christian art, a great number of works upon numismatics, and, finally, accounts
of great crimes and calamities. For Barwood took a new view of history: he looked to find that
the great treasons, briberies, betrayals of trust, murders from mercenary motives, and perhaps
financial troubles, had been set in motion by this fatal money, made the instrument of divine
vengeance.

"It has mown a swath through history," he said, "like a discharge of grape."

He believed it would appear, if the truth were known, in the bank accounts of Manuel Comnenus,
of Egmont, Benedict Arnold, and the Hungarian Gorgey.

His progress was by no means rapid. Much of the literature among which he delved, musty with
age, written in mediaeval Latin and in obsolete characters, gave up its secrets with reluctance.
Nevertheless he found definite replies to the questions which he propounded to himself. A collection
of apocryphal Gospels "printed," according to the quaint title-page, "for Richard Royston at
the Angle in Amen Corner, MDCLXX," relates particulars about Judas, among the rest, which do
not appear in the Scriptures. He was when young, it was said, a playmate of the boy Jesus,
who delivered him from a devil by which he was even then possessed. The chief value of this
book to Barwood was in a reference it contained to a fuller Gospel of Judas Iscariot, not now
extant with the exception of some passages quoted in the writings of Irenaeus. But these passages
were upon the very subject of which he was in search. In a treatise of Irenaeus's, therefore,
of about the second century, Barwood found the first definite mention of the coins.

The main part of the story is that of the authorized version, but after the account of the
relinquishment of the coins by Judas, saying that he had betrayed innocent blood, and of their
use in the purchase of the potter's field, occurs a passage translated[2] by Barwood as follows:--

"Now the shekels were of the coinage of Simon, the high priest, which Antiochus authorized
him to issue. They bore the pot of manna and the flowering rod of Aaron, the high priest. But
he to whom they were given knew that they were the price of blood, and was afraid. And he stamped
them with a mark in shape like a cross. And great tribulations came upon him, and tribulation
came upon all that bought and sold with the money of Judas." Later on, Leontinus, a Byzantine
writer of the sixth century, in a treatise devoted to showing the efficacy of certain forms
and processes in imparting virtue to inanimate matter, instances as well known the malevolence
inherent in the thirty pieces of silver of Judas, which carry ruin wherever they go. From this
time the legend is traced down through successive periods. The Middle Ages, which so delighted
in the romantic, the mysterious, the portentous, received it implicitly. Eginhard, abbot of
Seligenstadt under Charlemagne, William of Malmesbury, the English chronicler of the twelfth
century, Roger Bacon of the thirteenth, Malespini, the Italian chronicler of the same period,
and many others of equal note mention as fully established that the coins of Judas were in
circulation, and were inflicting serious injury upon those into whose possession they came.
It was said to be impossible to amalgamate them with any other silver. They either would not
melt or in melting remained distinct. This, however, was a disputed point. Some of the alchemists
in their writings seem disposed to attribute the ill success of their efforts at transmutation
to the presence of some taint of these pieces in the silver upon which they were experimenting.

Matthew Paris, who first popularized the legend of the Wandering Jew, as now received, strangely
enough makes no mention of them.

The conclusions arrived at by Barwood were these:--

1. There was for hundreds of years a general belief in the existence and active circulation
of the thirty pieces paid to Judas.

2. They were supposed to be sent as a divine judgment, and to leave ruin in their track.

3. The tradition gradually disappeared and cannot be traced in the literature of modern times.

Here was a valuable pursuit for a young American treasury clerk of the nineteenth century!
It would have been interesting to have got the general's opinion upon it, if it could have
been sought in some hurried interval of his confidential transactions with Richard Roe, claim
agent and brother-in-law, or his attention to addition and division with Congressman Doublegame.

Barwood did not stop here. Now that his belief was put into tangible shape, he felt impelled
onward to its realization. He examined minutely every coin collection in Washington. Then,
as he could, he made journeys to several of the great cities. Very seldom did he find a specimen
of Jewish money of any kind. Jewish coins are rare. "It is known that the Jews had no coinage
of their own until the time of Maccabeus. Simon Maccabeus, by virtue of a decree of Antiochus
(1 Macc. xv. 6) issued a shekel and also a half-shekel. These with the exception of some brass
coins of the Herods, Archelaus, and Agrippa, and a doubtful piece attributed to Bar Cochba,
the leader in the last rising against the Romans, are the only coins of Judea extant."

Barwood began to be affected by a nervous dread brought on by his too close study and constant
preoccupation with this subject. As he alone had felt this interest and prosecuted this strange
inquiry, might it not be that he was being drawn in some mysterious way within the influence
of the fatal money? Perhaps he himself was to be involved in its relentless course. He shuddered
at the thought, and yet was borne irresistibly on, as he believed, in his pursuit. He imagined
at times that he felt a peculiar influence from the touch of certain pieces. This he held to
be a clairvoyant sense that they had figured in crimes. Perhaps contact with a hand affected
by powerful passion had imparted to them subtle properties capable of being detected by a sensitive
organization.

In such study and speculation Barwood passed the spring and summer of 1870. Towards the middle
of August occurred the well-remembered flurry in Wall Street consequent upon the breaking out
of the French and Prussian War. Gold jumped up to one hundred and twenty-three. Money was loaned
at ruinous rates. The whole financial system was disturbed. Silver, then withdrawn from circulation,
has not reappeared to this day.

The effect of these events upon Barwood although not immediately apparent, was highly important.
With the disappearance of specie, the daily sight and handling of which had given his conception
a tangible support, its strength declined. It was not forgotten at once, nor indeed at all.
But time drew it away by little and little. It threw mists of distance and hues of strangeness
about it, until at length Barwood looked back upon it, far remote, as a vague object of wonderment.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: Diary, June, 1870.]

       *       *       *       *       *

IV.

THE HOLBROOK FARM.

The day had been sultry. Even after sunset the atmosphere was oppressive, and pavements and
railings in the city were warm to the touch from the steady blaze to which they had been subjected.
At the Holbrook farm, however, occasional puffs of air stirred the silver poplars skirting
the road, and waved the brown timothy grass that grew knee-deep up to the veranda.

Porto Rico and Carter's boy turning somersaults in the grass--entirely without the knowledge
of the discreet Carter himself, it may be assumed--suddenly relinquished this fascinating sport
to rush for the privilege of holding Barwood's horse, Porto Rico's longer legs and general
force of character gave him the preference. He jumped into the saddle as soon as Barwood was
out of it, and trotted off to the stable with Carter's boy whooping and bobbing his woolly
head in the rear.

"Never you mine," said Carter's boy, "I'll have the other gen'l'm'n."

"No other gen'l'm'n a'n't comin'," said Porto Rico. "Don't I done tole you dey don't bofe come
de same day?"

The Holbrook house, three miles from the Capitol, of the dome of which it commands a pretty
glimpse across an expanse of foliage, is one of the old residences remaining from the days
of the slave-holders. Like many such places it has been much altered and improved. It seems
to have been originally a one and-a-half-story stone dwelling, to which some later proprietor
has added a high-peaked roof, dormer windows, and ample piazzas. It stands half-way up a slope,
near the top of which is a grove. A brook runs down through the woods on the other side of
the road, and beyond that rises a steep little bluff crowned with scrub-oaks and chestnuts.

The attraction that drew people to Holbrook farm was not the proprietor himself, nor very much
his maiden sister, the housekeeper, nor yet Carter, the farmer and manager who came with them
from Richmond. It was rather the engaging manners and amiable beauty of Nina Holbrook, the
daughter of the house. The old gentleman was a partial paralytic, whimsical, and not especially
sociable. He was known to have lived in princely style at Richmond, formerly. He was said to
have met for some years past with continual reverses, in the loss of property, in sickness,
and in the death of friends. The farm was bought with almost the last remnants of a great fortune.

As Barwood strode down the piazza, a young lady rose from her reading to give him her hand.

Blonde beauty is slightly indefinite. The edges are, as it were, too much softened off into
the background. The figure before Barwood was fresh, distinct, clear-cut,--pre-Raphaelitish,
to take a word from painting. In all the details, from the ribbon in her feathery brown hair
to the pretty buttoned boot, there was the ineffable aroma of a pure, delicate taste.

To a man of Barwood's temperament falling in love was difficult. He analyzed too closely. To
ask the tender passion too many questions is to repel its advances.

Nevertheless, after two years of intimate association, in which he had discovered in Nina Holbrook
a frankness and loveliness of character commensurate with her personal graces, he had arrived
at this condition. First, He believed that her permanent influence upon his character could
cure his moodiness and his unpractical tendencies, and enable him to exert his fullest powers.
Second, By making the supposition that anything should intervene to limit or break off their
intercourse, he found that she had become indispensable to him.

Their acquaintance had begun in some one of the ordinary ways in which people meet. It might
have been at a tea-party, or a secretary's reception, or a boat excursion up the Potomac. They
discovered that they had mutual acquaintances to talk about. His evening rides began to be
directed through the pretty lanes that led to Holbrook. She loaned him a book; he brought her
confectionery; they played some piano duets together.

On her side the sentiment was different. She respected Barwood for fine traits and was grateful
for his many kindnesses to her. But certain peculiar moods of his made her uncomfortable. His
interest also was too much occupied with books, speculations about the anomalies and problems
of life, and similar serious matters. She found it wearisome and often difficult to follow
him. She admired such things, but had not as much head for them as he gave her credit for.
Her taste was more practical, commonplace, and cheerful. She was satisfied with people and
things in their ordinary aspects.

She got on much better with Mars Brown, exchanging comments with him upon the affairs of her
friends and his, discussing the last party and the next wedding, or laughing at his drollery.
She confessed her stupidity and frivolity with charming frankness.

Barwood was conscious that he did not always interest her, although she never showed anything
but the most ladylike attention. He often went away lamenting the destiny that had fashioned
his nature to run in so small and rigid a groove. His happiness, therefore, did not consist
in being with her, for then he was oppressed by a consciousness of not entirely pleasing her.
It was rather in retrospect, in his memory of her sweet and earnest face, the tones of her
voice, the shine of her hair. He gave her such small gifts as he might within the restraints
of social propriety. It would have consisted with his notion of the fitness of things to give
her everything he had and leave himself a beggar.

Barwood rode to Holbrook to-day with a definite purpose. He was aware, although, as Porto Rico
said, both gentlemen did not come on the same day, that Mars Brown was devoting more attention
in this direction of late than the exigencies of his boat and ball clubs, his shooting and
fishing, and the claims of the social world in town would seem to warrant. He did not yet really
fear him as a rival. His presence was only a suggestion of possibilities. There might at some
time be rivals. He had determined to forestall possibilities, and tell her of his affection
at once.

Mars Brown was, however, a dangerous rival, although himself perhaps as little aware of it
as Barwood. He also had met Nina and been impressed by her animated beauty. Accustomed to success,
he had ridden out to Holbrook to add one more to his list of flirtations and conquests. The
results had by no means answered his expectations. When he approached sentiment Nina laughed
at him. By degrees he had been piqued into earnestness, and had for the first time in his life
approximated to a serious esteem and attachment.

Although Nina laughed at first, later on she sometimes blushed at his voice or his step, or
when she put her hand into his. If his customary shrewd vision had not been disturbed by some
unusual influences at work within himself, he would have seen it.

He had the audacity that charms women, and with it a frank, open face, a hearty laugh, an entirely
healthy, cheerful disposition, and an air of strength under all his frivolity.

It has been said that Barwood had come to the farm to-day with a definite purpose. He drew
up one of the comfortable chairs at hand, and sat down near to Nina. They talked at first of
ordinary things, the unusual heat, the news of the day, and what each had been doing since
their last meeting.

The secluded prospect before them was very peaceful. Barwood felt its soothing influence acting
upon the perturbation of his spirit.

"I am improving my mind, you see," said Nina, holding up to him one of Motley's histories,
which she had apparently been reading. "I do not believe even you can find fault with this."

"Am I in the habit of finding fault with anybody, Miss Nina?"

"Oh no, I don't mean that exactly, but you know so much, you know, that you frighten one."

"Thank you," said Barwood with a grave smile, "you flatter me."

"Why were you not at the Hoyts' last Tuesday?" said she.

"I was not invited, and, strange to state, I am a little diffident about going under such circumstances."

"Ah, you are! how singular! But I wish you had been there, if it was only to see Betty Goodwin.
You used to know her. It is such a short time ago that she was a little girl. Now she is out
of school and as important as anybody. You should have seen the attention she had, and her
perfect self-possession. It makes me feel extremely antiquated. Am I very much wrinkled?"

Barwood gazed with admiration at her animated face. She was to him the personification of youth
and beauty. The notion of age and wrinkles in her regard was inconceivable.

"Why, of course," said he; "Methuselah wasn't a circumstance."

She dismissed the subject with a little pout.

"I am so glad you have come early," she resumed. "I wish the others would imitate your example."

"The others? What others?"

"Mr. Hyson, the Hoyt boys, Mr. Brown, Fanny Davis, and the rest. You did not suppose you were
to do them alone, I hope."

"Do what alone? I don't understand."

"Why, the tableaux--Evangeline. Did you not get my message yesterday?"

"I got no message. Am I to be implicated in tableaux?"

"Why, certainly. You are to be Evangeline's father. They are for the benefit of the French
wounded. I sent Carter to tell you yesterday. We are to arrange the preliminaries this evening."

Barwood saw that if he would not postpone his purpose no time was to be lost. The visitors
might arrive at any moment.

Literature is full of the embarrassments of the marriage proposal. To all who are not borne
along by an impetuous impulse it is a trying ordeal. Barwood was too self-conscious ever to
be transported out of himself.

"I have something to say to you, Miss Nina," he began, "which I have come from town expressly
to say. It is of the greatest moment to me."

She continued to look straight before her at the glowing evening sky, and so did he. The crickets
and katydids had commenced their chorus and the tree-toads their long rhythm. Fire-flies flitted
in the uncertain light. There came from the woods the call of the owl and the whippoorwill.

"We have sometimes laughed together at sentiment," he continued, "and voted it an invention
of the story-books; but there are times--there is a sentiment--which--in short, dear Nina,
I have come to ask you to be my little wife. I have loved you almost since our first meeting."

"Oh, Mr. Barwood," said she, looking hastily towards him, with heightened color and a tone
of regret, "you must not say so. I cannot let you go on."

"I must go on," said he. "I have never felt so strongly upon any subject as this. I know I
am not worthy of such happiness, yet I cannot bear the thought of losing it. Consider our long
friendship. You will be mine? Oh, say so, Nina!" In the terrible dread that his petition was
already refused, he became a little incoherent.

Nina, a tender-hearted young lady, was by this time in tears. His evident distress, and her
recognition of the great compliment he had paid her, would have commanded almost any return
save the one he asked. But the sacrifice was too great. She had not thought it would ever be
necessary to change their relation of friendship.

"I am very sorry to have to say what is painful to you," said she, with a sob only half repressed.
"I want you to be always my friend. I shall be very unhappy if our friendship is to be broken,
but I cannot--you will find some other"--

"Do not speak further," he interrupted, impetuously. "You have not yet said no. Reserve your
answer; take time to consider. Let me still hope."

"No," she began, "I ought"--but wheels and merry voices were heard at the gate. "Oh! I cannot
let them see me now," she said, and hurried away. In a moment more the Robinsons' carriage
was at the steps. When Nina came down with a sweet, subdued manner, there was a jolly party
of ten or twelve in the drawing-room. Mars Brown was already amusing everybody with his absurd
posturing.

"I want to be Evangeline," said he, wrapping a lady's shawl about him and sitting on the arm
of a chair in a collapsed attitude. "No, on second thought, I want to be Basil the blacksmith."
He made imitations of tremendous muscular power with a tack-hammer that happened in his way
for a sledge. Everybody on such occasions has his own notions of the picturesque. A deal of
talking was required in arranging the various scenes. Evangeline must manifest a "celestial
brightness," according to the lines. "I don't think you do it quite right," said Julia Robinson.
"You should smile a little."

"Oh no, not at all; she should have an earnest, far off look," said another critic.

"Of course she should," said Mars Brown, rumpling his hair and contorting his features into
an expression of idiotic vacancy; "something this way."

"We ought to have a real artist to arrange them," said Nina; "what would I give if old Mr.
Megilp were here."

"Did you know Megilp?" exclaimed Barwood.

"Why, of course I did. He was my drawing teacher at Richmond for years."

"What a small world it is, to be sure," said Barwood, giving vent to a favorite reflection.
The mention of Megilp brought back for a moment a remembrance of their last meeting and conversation,
and the strange pursuit into which it had led him.

The signing of the marriage contract was selected by the amateurs as an appropriate subject
for illustration.

"We must have a table," said Miss Travers. "At one side sits the notary, lifting his pen from
the document which he has just signed, and at the other her father, pushing toward the notary
a roll of money in payment."

"Here you are," said George Wigwag, taking his place and assuming the appropriate gesture;
"here's your notary; bring on your old gentleman and his money."

"A roll of old copper cents would be just the thing," said Miss Travers. "They look antique
enough."

"Will some gentleman deposit with the treasurer a roll of antique copper cents?" said Brown,
passing a hat. "No gentleman deposits a roll of copper cents. Very well, then the wedding can't
go on."

"Do you think I'll sign marriage contracts for copper?" said Wigwag. "No indeed; I'm not that
kind of a notary."

"I will bring down some of papa's curiosity coins from his cabinet," said Nina. "I don't believe
he will scold me, just for once."

She returned in a moment with a dozen or more silver pieces, and placed them on the table by
Barwood. He began to examine them carelessly.

"I did not know your father was a numismatist," said he.

"Oh yes," said Nina, "he always had a great taste in that way. His collection now is nothing.
When we broke up in Richmond most of it was sold off. He retained only a few of the most valuable
pieces, which he keeps in a case in his room. I don't know much about such things, for my part.
Here is one that is considered curious. It was taken out of a wreck on the California coast,
I believe, and was the last papa bought before his failure. I think it is Russian, perhaps,
or Arabic--no, let me see"--

Barwood, with an abstracted air, took it to examine. Suddenly he uttered a strange exclamation
and fell back in his chair, pale, trembling, almost fainting.

The coin was a Jewish shekel, with a cross cut through at one side.

He pleaded sudden illness, and rode hastily homeward in a state of indescribable agitation.

       *       *       *       *       *

V.

YOUNG FORTINBRAS.

Barwood's strange and almost forgotten conception was thus at length realized, and the interest
with which it had inspired him intensely revived. One of the fatal pieces was found. He would
now fain have overthrown the structure of probabilities which he had labored so painfully to
elaborate. He reviewed step by step all the details of his former study; but no argument availed
in the face of the extraordinary corroboration now offered. The piece was "stamped with a mark
in shape like a cross," and the account of Irenaeus was verified.

That this fatal piece should appear in the hands of the people whom of all others he most esteemed
and with whom his own fortunes were most intimately bound up, was a terrible shock. This, then,
was the clew to the catalogue of Holbrook's misfortunes. What surpassing crime could the old
man have committed to be so signally marked out for vengeance? But the question of most vital
interest was what could be done to save the family so dear to him from their impending fate.

With the recovery of some calmness, he felt that his first duty was to remove the coin from
their possession. But how was it to be done? He could not disclose his knowledge of its baleful
properties. It would be set down as the vagary of a disordered brain; nobody would entertain
it for an instant. His object must be accomplished, if at all, by artifice.

When he next rode to the farm, nearly a week had elapsed since the evening into which so many
distracting emotions had been crowded. He exerted himself to display unusual cheerfulness,
with the double object of removing any disagreeable impression which might have been the result
of his sudden departure on that occasion, and also of finding means to forward his purpose.
The subject uppermost in the thoughts of both was at first carefully avoided, and they talked
much in their usual fashion.

"Those coins, Miss Nina, which were used the other evening in the tableau," said he, with a
careless air, "can I see them again? I found them interesting, but owing to my sudden illness,
as you know, had scarcely time to examine them."

"My father was displeased at me for taking them," said she, "and has forbidden me to do so
again. I think he would show them to you himself with pleasure, if he were here, but he went
North yesterday on business which will detain him a week. He took the key of his cabinet with him."

Disappointed in this, there seemed to be for the present no resource. He recurred again to
his love. If she would consent to be his, he thought, he might disclose the danger, and they
could plan together to avert it. He told her with what anxiety he had been awaiting her decision,
and then once more made his appeal with all the ardor at his command. As he finished, standing
close beside her, he took her hand.

She did not withdraw it, but still went on to tell him with great calmness and dignity that
what he desired could never be. She hoped their friendship might always continue, but as for
a closer relation, it would be unjust to him as well as herself to enter into it without the
affection which she could not give.

He went away apparently very much broken down, saying that his life was a burden to him, and
that he had no use for it. The next day he came again and acted so strangely, mingling appeals
to her with talk about her father's coins, that she was a little frightened.

The few days that succeeded made a striking change in the appearance of Barwood. He became
pale and haggard, and seemed to have lost his capacity for business and fixed attention. He
sat staring helplessly at his papers for an hour at a time. The general, who with all his iniquities
was a good-hearted chief, thought he was sick, and told him to stay at home and take care of
himself. His reflections at this time were tormenting. He saw that he had indeed been drawn
within the influence of the fatal coin. It was at him that its malignity was directed, and
he believed that his doom was approaching, as indeed it was. Sometimes he gazed at his altered
face in the glass, while tears streamed down his cheeks. He said aloud, in a piteous tone,
"Poor Henry Barwood."

The sympathy of the world is generally upon the side of the unsuccessful lover. He is considered
to have been defrauded of happiness which should by right have been his. But is it fair? Because
her face is sweet, her manners are amiable, her form is slender and graceful, and her hair
has a golden shine, and Barwood or Brown or Travers, as the case may be, in common with all
the world, recognizes it, does that establish a claim upon her? Just as likely as not he has
a snub nose and only fifteen hundred a year, and cannot dance the Boston. No! sympathy is well
enough, but let not the blame be cast upon Chloe every time that Daphnis goes off in despair
to the Sandwich Islands, or the war in Cuba, or turns out a good-for-nothing sot. Let it rather
be set down as one of the ill-adjustments of which there are so many in life, and the endurance
of which is no doubt of service in some direction not yet fully understood.

In about a week there came from Holbrook Farm a message which was not needed to complete the
measure of Barwood's unhappiness.

"My father," wrote Nina, "has just returned. He has decided that we are to remove permanently
to Connecticut, where my aunt has fallen heir to the Holbrook homestead. We shall leave next
Monday. Will you let us see you before we go?"

He mounted his horse and started at once. He did not know exactly what he should do or say.
His ideas were in a state of confusion, and there was a numbness over all his sensations. He
gave himself up blindly to his destiny.

He saw Nina sitting in the shade of an apple-tree, half-way down the lawn, near a little plateau
which served for a croquet ground. He tied his horse to the fence outside, much to the disappointment
of the rollicking negro boys, and walked up. Nina held in her lap a tray of coins which she
was engaged in brightening. She assumed a sprightliness not quite natural, and evidently designed
to obviate the awkwardness of their peculiar relation.

"We have had an accident," said she. "One of our chimneys fell through the roof during the
storm last night. It shook down the plaster upon papa's cabinet. The glass was broken and the
rain came in so that this morning it was in a sorry condition. I am repairing damages, you
see. If I were superstitious," she continued, "I should fear that something was going to happen.
I meet with so many omens lately. I spill salt, cross funerals, and make one of thirteen at
dinner parties."

Barwood replied as best he could; he did not know exactly what. He was in no mood for flippancy.
He assumed a dozen different positions in a short space: first sitting on a camp-chair beside
her, then hurried walking up and down, then careless prostration upon the grass. The old, useless
argument was gone through with again. She told him at last that it annoyed her, that he was
very inconsiderate. Then again he paced up and down the little croquet ground. She saw him
twisting and clutching his hands together behind him. At the fifth or sixth turn as he came
by she had the marked shekel in her hand. He took it from her and looked at it curiously.

"Yes, it is indeed," said he in an unnatural voice, "fatal money, and I am its latest victim!"

He threw it towards the woods with great force.

It rose high in the air, skimmed the trees, and they saw it twinkle into the brook.

It was a very little incident. No magic hand arose from the water. The beauty of the August
day was not marred. The rain of the past night had swollen the brook, which ran hurriedly on
to the Potomac, making little of this trivial addition to its burdens.

Nina did not reproach him. She felt that her father would consider the loss irreparable, yet
she had no words for this extraordinary rudeness. After two or three turns more in his walk
he stopped close beside her.

"For the last time," said he, "have I urged everything, and is it of no use?"

She made no answer.

"You have said so?" he persisted.

"Yes, I have said so," she replied, with a touch of impatience, and without raising her eyes.
"I am engaged to Mars Brown."

He went forward several steps and stood still. Glancing up she saw him hold a little revolver
to his temple. It was one she had known him to carry for protection when riding late in the
evening. He seemed to deliberate one terrible moment while she sat spell-bound as if by nightmare,
and then he fired and fell.

She tried to reach his body, but fainted on the way. Mars Brown, riding to Holbrook for a half-holiday,
was almost within sight.

Upon the closing scene of Hamlet, where the characters, after a period of stormy conflict and
exquisite anguish, lie strewn by violent death, arrives young Fortinbras at the head of his
marching army. Tall, sturdy, elastic, dressed in chain-mail, victorious, careless, the impersonation
of ruddy life, the young Norway conqueror leans upon his sword above the pitiable sight.

So this brilliant young man, elegant in figure, well dressed, joyous, cynical, came whistling
up the path. He cut off the clover tops with his walking-stick. The butterflies, the pleasant
aromas, and all the manifestations of rural beauty pleased him.

"Egad," said he, "this isn't so bad, you know."

In a moment he stood by the apple-tree, and the whole sad spectacle was before him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The telegraphic column of a New York newspaper gave the story next morning, in the conventional
manner, as follows:

   "Henry Barwood, a treasury clerk, was killed
   yesterday at the Holbrook estate near Washington,
   by the discharge of a pistol in his own hands. The
   shooting is thought to have been accidental,
   although he had been ill and depressed for some
   days, and is said to have shown symptoms of insanity
   on former occasions."

BALACCHI BROTHERS.

BY REBECCA HARDING DAVIS.

"There's a man, now, that has been famous in his time," said Davidge, as we passed the mill,
glancing in at the sunny gap in the side of the building.

I paused incredulously: Phil's lion so often turned out to be Snug the joiner. Phil was my
chum at college, and in inviting me home to spend the vacation with him I thought he had fancied
the resources of his village larger than they proved. In the two days since we came we had
examined the old doctor's cabinet, listened superciliously to a debate in the literary club
upon the Evils of the Stage, and passed two solid afternoons in the circle about the stove
in the drug-shop, where the squire and the Methodist parson, and even the mild, white-cravated
young rector of St. Mark's, were wont to sharpen their wits by friction. What more was left?
I was positive that I knew the mental gauge of every man in the village.

A little earlier or later in life a gun or fishing-rod would have satisfied me. The sleepy,
sunny little market-town was shut in by the bronzed autumn meadows, that sent their long groping
fingers of grass or parti-colored weeds drowsily up into the very streets: there were ranges
of hills and heavy stretches of oak and beech woods, too, through which crept glittering creeks
full of trout. But I was just at that age when the soul disdains all aimless pleasures: my
game was Man. I was busy in philosophically testing, weighing, labelling human nature.

"Famous, eh?" I said, looking after the pursy figure of the miller in his floury canvas round-about
and corduroy trowsers, trotting up and down among the bags.

"That is one of the Balacchi Brothers," Phil answered as we walked on. "You've heard of them
when you were a boy?"

I had heard of them. The great acrobats were as noted in their line of art as Ellsler and Jenny
Lind in theirs. But acrobats and danseuses had been alike brilliant, wicked impossibilities
to my youth, for I had been reared a Covenanter of the Covenanters. In spite of the doubting
philosophies with which I had clothed myself at college, that old Presbyterian training clung
to me in everyday life close as my skin.

After that day I loitered about the mill, watching this man, whose life had been spent in one
godless theatre after another, very much as the Florentine peasants looked after Dante when
they knew he had come back from hell. I was on the lookout for the taint, the abnormal signs,
of vice. It was about that time that I was fevered with the missionary enthusiasm, and in Polynesia,
where I meant to go (but where I never did go), I declared to Phil daily that I should find
in every cannibal the half-effaced image of God, only waiting to be quickened into grace and
virtue. That was quite conceivable. But that a flashy, God-defying actor could be the same
man at heart as this fat, good-tempered, gossiping miller, who jogged to the butcher's every
morning for his wife, a basket on one arm and a baby on the other, was not conceivable. He
was a close dealer at the butcher's, too, though dribbling gossip there as everywhere; a regular
attendant at St. Mark's, with his sandy-headed flock about him, among whom he slept comfortably
enough, it is true, but with as pious dispositions as the rest of us.

I remember how I watched this man, week in and week out. It was a trivial matter, but it irritated
me unendurably to find that this circus-rider had human blood precisely like my own it outraged
my early religion.

We talk a great deal of the rose-colored illusions in which youth wraps the world, and the
agony it suffers as they are stripped from its bare, hard face. But the fact is, that youth
(aside from its narrow-passionate friendships) is usually apt to be acrid and watery and sour
in its judgment and creeds--it has the quality of any other unripe fruit: it is middle age
that is just and tolerant, that has found room enough in the world for itself and all human
flies to buzz out their lives good-humoredly together. It is youth who can see a tangible devil
at work in every party or sect opposed to its own, whose enemy is always a villain, and who
finds treachery and falsehood in the friend who is occasionally bored or indifferent: it is
middle age that has discovered the reasonable sweet juste milieu of human nature--who knows
few saints perhaps, but is apt to find its friend and grocer and shoemaker agreeable and honest
fellows. It is these vehement illusions, these inherited bigotries and prejudices, that tear
and cripple a young man as they are taken from him one by one. He creeps out of them as a crab
from the shell that has grown too small for him, but he thinks he has left his identity behind him.

It was such a reason as this that made me follow the miller assiduously, and cultivate a quasi
intimacy with him, in the course of which I picked the following story from him. It was told
at divers times, and with many interruptions and questions from me. But for obvious reasons
I have made it continuous. It had its meaning to me, coarse and common though it was--the same
which Christ taught in the divine beauty of His parables. Whether that meaning might not be
found in the history of every human life, if we had eyes to read it, is matter for question.

Balacchi Brothers? And you've heard of them, eh? Well, well! (with a pleased nod, rubbing his
hands on his knees). Yes, sir. Fifteen years ago they were known as The Admirable Crichtons
of the Ring. It was George who got up that name: I did not see the force of it. But no name
could claim too much for us. Why, I could show you notices in the newspapers that--I used to
clip them out and stuff my pocket-book with them as we went along, but after I quit the business
I pasted them in an old ledger, and I often now read them of nights. No doubt I lost a good
many, too.

Yes, sir: I was one of Balacchi Brothers. My name is Zack Loper. And it was then, of course.

You think we would have plenty of adventures? Well, no--not a great many. There's a good deal
of monotony in the business. Towns seem always pretty much alike to me. And there was such
a deal of rehearsing to be done by day and at night. I looked at nothing but the rope and George:
the audience was nothing but a packed flat surface of upturned, staring eyes and half-open
mouths. It was an odd sight, yes, when you come to think of it. I never was one for adventures.
I was mostly set upon shaving close through the week, so that when Saturday night came I'd
have something to lay by: I had this mill in my mind, you see. I was married, and had my wife
and a baby that I'd never seen waiting for me at home. I was brought up to milling, but the
trapeze paid better. I took to it naturally, as one might say.

But George!--he had adventures every week. And as for acquaintances! Why, before we'd be in
a town two days he'd be hail-fellow-well-met with half the people in it. That fellow could
scent a dance or a joke half a mile off. You never see such wide-awake men nowadays. People
seem to me half dead or asleep when I think of him.

Oh, I thought you knew. My partner Balacchi. It was Balacchi on the bill: the actors called
him Signor, and people like the manager, South, and we, who knew him well, George. I asked
him his real name once or twice, but he joked it off. "How many names must a man be saddled
with?" he said. I don't know it to this day, nor who he had been. They hinted there was something
queer about his story, but I'll go my bail it was a clean one, whatever it was.

You never heard how "Balacchi Brothers" broke up? That was as near to an adventure as I ever
had. Come over to this bench and I'll tell it to you. You don't dislike the dust of the mill?
The sun's pleasanter on this side.

It was early in August of '56 when George and I came to an old town on the Ohio, half city,
half village, to play an engagement. We were under contract with South then, who provided the
rest of the troupe, three or four posture-girls, Stradi the pianist, and a Madame Somebody,
who gave readings and sang. "Concert" was the heading in large caps on the bills, "Balacchi
Brothers will give their aesthetic tableaux vivants in the interludes," in agate below.

"I've got to cover you fellows over with respectability here," South said. "Rope-dancing won't
go down with these aristocratic church-goers."

I remember how George was irritated. "When I was my own agent," he said, "I only went to the
cities. Educated people can appreciate what we do, but in these country towns we rank with
circus-riders."

George had some queer notions about his business. He followed it for sheer love of it, as I
did for money. I've seen all the great athletes since, but I never saw one with his wonderful
skill and strength, and with the grace of a woman too, or a deer. Now that takes hard, steady
work, but he never flinched from it, as I did; and when night came, and the people and lights,
and I thought of nothing but to get through, I used to think he had the pride of a thousand
women in every one of his muscles and nerves: a little applause would fill him with a mad kind
of fury of delight and triumph. South had a story that George belonged to some old Knickerbocker
family, and had run off from home years ago. I don't know. There was that wild restless blood
in him that no home could have kept him.

We were to stay so long in this town that I found rooms for us with an old couple named Peters,
who had but lately moved in from the country, and had half a dozen carpenters and masons boarding
with them. It was cheaper than the hotel, and George preferred that kind of people to educated
men, which made me doubt that story of his having been a gentleman. The old woman Peters was
uneasy about taking us, and spoke out quite freely about it when we called, not knowing that
George and I were Balacchi Brothers ourselves.

"The house has been respectable so far, gentlemen," she said. "I don't know what about taking
in them half-naked, drunken play-actors. What do you say, Susy?" to her granddaughter.

"Wait till you see them, grandmother," the girl said gently. "I should think that men whose
lives depended every night on their steady eyes and nerves would not dare to touch liquor."

"You are quite right--nor even tobacco," said George. It was such a prompt, sensible thing
for the little girl to say that he looked at her attentively a minute, and then went up to
the old lady smiling: "We don't look like drinking men, do we, madam?"

"No, no, sir. I did not know that you were the I-talians." She was quite flustered and frightened,
and said cordially enough how glad she was to have us both. But it was George she shook hands
with. There was something clean and strong and inspiring about that man that made most women
friendly to him on sight.

Why, in two days you'd have thought he'd never had another home than the Peters's. He helped
the old man milk, and had tinkered up the broken kitchen-table, and put in half a dozen window-panes,
and was intimate with all the boarders; could give the masons the prices of job-work at the
East, and put Stoll the carpenter on the idea of contract houses, out of which he afterward
made a fortune. It was nothing but jokes and fun and shouts of laughter when he was in the
house: even the old man brightened up and told some capital stories. But from the first I noticed
that George's eye followed Susy watchfully wherever she went, though he was as distant and
respectful with her as he was with most women. He had a curious kind of respect for women,
George had. Even the Slingsbys, that all the men in the theatre joked with, he used to pass
by as though they were logs leaning against the wall. They were the posture-girls, and anything
worse besides the name I never saw.

There was a thing happened once on that point which I often thought might have given me a clew
to his history if I'd followed it up. We were playing in one of the best theatres in New York
(they brought us into some opera), and the boxes were filled with fine ladies beautifully dressed,
or, I might say, half dressed.

George was in one of the wings. "It's a pretty sight," I said to him.

"It's a shameful sight," he said with an oath. "The Slingsbys do it for their living, but these
women--"

I said they were ladies, and ought to be treated with respect. I was amazed at the heat he was in.

"I had a sister, Zack, and there's where I learned what a woman should be."

"I never heard of your sister, George," said I. I knew he would not have spoken of her but
for the heat he was in.

"No. I'm as dead to her, being what I am, as if I were six feet under ground."

I turned and looked at him, and when I saw his face I said no more, and I never spoke of it
again. It was something neither I nor any other man had any business with.

So, when I saw how he was touched by Susy and drawn toward her, it raised her in my opinion,
though I'd seen myself how pretty and sensible a little body she was. But I was sorry, for
I knew twan't no use. The Peterses were Methodists, and Susy more strict than any of them;
and I saw she looked on the theatre as the gate of hell, and George and me swinging over it.

I don't think, though, that George saw how strong her feeling about it was, for after we'd
been there a week or two he began to ask her to go and see us perform, if only for once. I
believe he thought the girl would come to love him if she saw him at his best. I don't wonder
at it, sir. I've seen those pictures and statues they've made of the old gods, and I reckon
they put in them the best they thought a man could be; but I never knew what real manhood was
until I saw my partner when he stood quiet on the stage waiting the signal to begin the light
full on his keen blue eyes, the gold-worked velvet tunic, and his perfect figure.

He looked more like other men in his ordinary clothing. George liked a bit of flash, too, in
his dress--a red necktie or gold chain stretched over his waistcoat.

Susy refused at first, steadily. At last, however, came our final night, when George was to
produce his great leaping feat, never yet performed in public. We had been practising it for
months, and South judged it best to try it first before a small, quiet audience, for the risk
was horrible. Whether, because it was to be the last night, and her kind heart disliked to
hurt him by refusal, or whether she loved him better than either she or he knew, I could not
tell, but I saw she was strongly tempted to go. She was an innocent little thing, and not used
to hide what she felt. Her eyes were red that morning, as though she had been crying all the
night. Perhaps, because I was a married man, and quieter than George, she acted more freely
with me than him.

"I wish I knew what to do," she said, looking up to me with her eyes full of tears. There was
nobody in the room but her grandmother.

"I couldn't advise you, Miss Susy," says I. "Your church discipline goes against our trade,
I know."

"I know what's right myself: I don't need church discipline to teach me," she said sharply.

"I think I'd go, Susy," said her grandmother. "It is a concert, after all: it's not a play."

"The name doesn't alter it."

Seeing the temper she was in, I thought it best to say no more, but the old lady added, "It's
Mr. George's last night. Dear, dear! how I'll miss him!"

Susy turned quickly to the window. "Why does he follow such godless ways then?" she cried.
She stood still a good while, and when she turned about her pale little face made my heart
ache. "I'll take home Mrs. Tyson's dress now, grandmother," she said, and went out of the room.
I forgot to tell you Susy was a seamstress. Well, the bundle was large, and I offered to carry
it for her, as the time for rehearsal did not come till noon. She crept alongside of me without
a word, looking weak and done-out: she was always so busy and bright, it was the more noticeable.
The house where the dress was to go was one of the largest in the town. The servant showed
us into a back parlor, and took the dress up to her mistress. I looked around me a great deal,
for I'd never been in such a house before; but very soon I caught sight of a lady who made
me forget carpets and pictures. I only saw her in the mirror, for she was standing by the fireplace
in the front room. The door was open between. It wasn't that she was especially pretty, but
in her white morning-dress, with lace about her throat and her fair hair drawn back from her
face, I thought she was the delicatest, softest, finest thing of man- or woman-kind I ever say.

"Look there, Susy! look there!" I whispered.

"It is a Mrs. Lloyd from New York. She is here on a visit. That is her husband;" and then she
went down into her own gloomy thoughts again.

The husband was a grave, middle-aged man. He had had his paper up before his face, so that
I had not seen him before.

"You will go for the tickets, then, Edward?" she said.

"If you make a point of it, yes," in an annoyed tone. "But I don't know why you make a point
of it. The musical part of the performance is beneath contempt, I understand, and the real
attraction is the exhibition of these mountebanks of trapezists, which will be simply disgusting
to you. You would not encourage such people at home: why would you do it here?"

"They are not necessarily wicked." I noticed there was a curious unsteadiness in her voice,
as though she was hurt and agitated. I thought perhaps she knew I was there.

"There is very little hope of any redeeming qualities in men who make a trade of twisting their
bodies like apes," he said. "Contortionists and ballet-dancers and clowns and harlequins--"
he rattled all the names over with a good deal of uncalled-for sharpness, I thought, calling
them "dissolute and degraded, the very offal of humanity." I could not understand his heat
until he added, "I never could comprehend your interest and sympathy for that especial class,
Ellinor."

"No, you could not, Edward," she said quietly.

"But I have it. I never have seen an exhibition of the kind. But I want to see this to-night,
if you will gratify me. I have no reason." she added when he looked at her curiously. "The
desire is unaccountable to myself."

The straightforward look of her blue eyes as she met his seemed strangely familiar and friendly
to me.

At that moment Susy stood up to go. Her cheeks were burning and her eyes sparkling. "Dissolute
and degraded!" she said again and again when we were outside. But I took no notice.

As we reached the house she stopped me when I turned off to go to rehearsal. "You'll get seats
for grandmother and me, Mr. Balacchi?" she said.

"You're going, then, Susy?"

"Yes, I'm going."

       *       *       *       *       *

Now the house in which we performed was a queer structure. A stock company, thinking there
was a field for a theatre in the town, had taken a four-story building, gutted the interior,
and fitted it up with tiers of seats and scenery. The stock company was starved out, however,
and left the town, and the theatre was used as a gymnasium, a concert-room, or a church by
turns. Its peculiarity was, that it was both exceedingly lofty and narrow, which suited our
purpose exactly.

It was packed that night from dome to pit. George and I had rehearsed our new act both morning
and afternoon, South watching us without intermission. South was terribly nervous and anxious,
half disposed, at the last minute, to forbid it, although it had been announced on the bills
for a week. But a feat which is successful in an empty house, with but one spectator, when
your nerves are quiet and blood cool, is a different thing before an excited, terrified, noisy
audience, your whole body at fever heat. However, George was cool as a cucumber, indeed almost
indifferent about the act, but in a mad, boyish glee all day about everything else. I suppose
the reason was that Susy was going.

South had lighted the house brilliantly and brought in a band. And all classes of people poured
into the theatre until it could hold no more. I saw Mrs. Peters in one of the side-seats, with
Susy's blushing, frightened little face beside her. George, standing back among the scenes,
saw her too: I think, indeed, it was all he did see.

There were the usual readings from Shakespeare at first.

While Madame was on, South came to us. "Boys," said he, "let this matter go over a few weeks.
A little more practice will do you no harm. You can substitute some other trick, and these
people will be none the wiser."

George shrugged his shoulders impatiently: "Nonsense! When did you grow so chicken-hearted,
South? It is I who have to run the risk, I fancy."

I suppose South's uneasiness had infected me.

"I am quite willing to put it off," I said. I had felt gloomy and superstitious all day. But
I never ventured to oppose George more decidedly than that.

He only laughed by way of reply, and went off to dress. South looked after him, I remember,
saying what a magnificently-built fellow he was. If we could only have seen the end of that
night's work!

As I went to my dressing-room I saw Mrs. Lloyd and her husband in one of the stage-boxes, with
one or two other ladies and gentlemen. She was plainly and darkly dressed, but to my mind she
looked like a princess among them all. I could not but wonder what interest she could have
in such a rough set as we, although her husband, I confess, did judge us hardly.

After the readings came the concert part of the performance, and then what South chose to call
the Moving Tableaux, which was really nothing in the world but ballet-dancing. George and I
were left to crown the whole. I had some ordinary trapeze-work to do at first, but George was
reserved for the new feat, in order that his nerves might be perfectly unshaken. When I went
out alone and bowed to the audience, I observed that Mrs. Lloyd was leaning eagerly forward,
but at the first glance at my face she sank back with a look of relief, and turned away, that
she might not see my exploits. It nettled me a little, I think, yet they were worth watching.

Well, I finished, and then there was a song to give me time to cool. I went to the side-scenes
where I could be alone, for that five minutes. I had no risk to run in the grand feat, you
see, but I had George's life in my hands. I haven't told you yet--have I?--what it was he proposed
to do.

A rope was suspended from the centre of the dome, the lower end of which I held, standing in
the highest gallery opposite the stage. Above the stage hung the trapeze on which George and
the two posture-girls were to be. At a certain signal I was to let the rope go, and George,
springing from the trapeze across the full width of the dome, was to catch it in mid-air, a
hundred feet above the heads of the people. You understand? The mistake of an instant of time
on either his part or mine, and death was almost certain. The plan we had thought surest was
for South to give the word, and then that both should count--One, Two, Three! At Three the
rope fell, and he leaped. We had practised so often that we thought we counted as one man.

When the song was over the men hung the rope and the trapeze. Jenny and Lou Slingsby swung
themselves up to it, turned a few somersaults and then were quiet. They were only meant to
give effect to the scene in their gauzy dresses and spangles. Then South came forward and told
the audience what we meant to do. It was a feat, he said, which had never been produced before
in any theatre, and in which failure was death. No one but that most daring of all acrobats,
Balacchi, would attempt it. Now I knew South so well that I saw under all his confident, bragging
tone he was more anxious and doubtful than he had ever been. He hesitated a moment, and then
requested that after we took our places the audience should preserve absolute silence, and
refrain from even the slightest movement until the feat was over. The merest trifle might distract
the attention of the performers and render their eyes and hold unsteady, he said. He left the
stage, and the music began.

I went round to take my place in the gallery. George had not yet left his room. As I passed
I tapped at the door and called, "Good luck, old fellow!"

"That's certain now, Zack," he answered, with a joyous laugh. He was so exultant, you see,
that Susy had come.

But the shadow of death seemed to have crept over me. When I took my stand in the lofty gallery,
and looked down at the brilliant lights and the great mass of people, who followed my every
motion as one man, and the two glittering, half-naked girls swinging in the distance, and heard
the music rolling up thunders of sound, it was all ghastly and horrible to me, sir. Some men
have such presentiments, they say: I never had before or since. South remained on the stage
perfectly motionless, in order, I think, to maintain his control over the audience.

The trumpets sounded a call, and in the middle of a burst of triumphant music George came on
the stage. There was a deafening outbreak of applause and then a dead silence, but I think
every man and woman felt a thrill of admiration of the noble figure Poor George! the new, tight-fitting
dress of purple velvet that he had bought for this night set off his white skin, and his fine
head was bare, with no covering but the short curls that Susy liked.

It was for Susy! He gave one quick glance up at her, and a bright, boyish smile, as if telling
her not to be afraid, which all the audience understood, and answered by an involuntary, long-drawn
breath. I looked at Susy. The girl's colorless face was turned to George, and her hands were
clasped as though she saw him already dead before her; but she could be trusted, I saw. She
would utter no sound. I had only time to glance at her, and then turned to my work. George
and I dared not take our eyes from each other.

There was a single bugle note, and then George swung himself up to the trapeze. The silence
was like death as he steadied himself and slowly turned so as to front me. As he turned he
faced the stage-box for the first time. He had reached the level of the posture-girls, who
fluttered on either side, and stood on the swaying rod poised on one foot, his arms folded,
when in the breathless stillness there came a sudden cry and the words, "Oh, Charley! Charley!"

Even at the distance where I stood I saw George start and a shiver pass over his body. He looked
wildly about him.

"To me! to me!" I shouted.

He fixed his eye on mine and steadied himself. There was a terrible silent excitement in the
people, in the very air.

There was the mistake. We should have stopped then, shaken as he was, but South, bewildered
and terrified, lost control of himself: he gave the word.

I held the rope loose--held George with my eyes--One!

I saw his lips move: he was counting with me.

Two!

His eye wandered, turned to the stage-box.

Three!

Like a flash, I saw the white upturned faces below me, the posture-girls' gestures of horror,
the dark springing figure through the air, that wavered--and fell a shapeless mass on the floor.

There was a moment of deathlike silence, and then a wild outcry--women fainting, men cursing
and crying out in that senseless, helpless way they have when there is sudden danger. By the
time I had reached the floor they had straightened out his shattered limbs, and two or three
doctors were fighting their way through the great crowd that was surging about him.

Well, sir, at that minute what did I hear but George's voice above all the rest, choked and
hollow as it was, like a man calling out of the grave: "The women! Good God! don't you see
the women?" he gasped.

Looking up then, I saw those miserable Slingsbys hanging on to the trapeze for life. What with
the scare and shock, they'd lost what little sense they had, and there they hung helpless as
limp rags high over our heads.

"Damn the Slingsbys!" said I. God forgive me! But I saw this battered wreck at my feet that
had been George. Nobody seemed to have any mind left. Even South stared stupidly up at them
and then back at George. The doctors were making ready to lift him, and half of the crowd were
gaping in horror, and the rest yelling for ladders or ropes, and scrambling over each other,
and there hung the poor flimsy wretches, their eyes starting out of their heads from horror,
and their lean fingers loosing their hold every minute. But, sir--I couldn't help it--I turned
from them to watch George as the doctors lifted him.

"It's hardly worth while," whispered one.

But they raised him and, sir--the body went one way and the legs another.

I thought he was dead. I couldn't see that he breathed, when he opened his eyes and looked
up for the Slingsbys. "Put me down," he said, and the doctors obeyed him. There was that in
his voice that they had to obey him, though it wasn't but a whisper.

"Ladders are of no use," he said. "Loper!"

"Yes, George"

"You can swing yourself up. Do it."

I went. I remember the queer stunned feeling I had: my joints moved like a machine.

When I had reached the trapeze, he said, as cool as if he were calling the figures for a Virginia
reel, "Support them, you--Loper. Now, lower the trapeze, men--carefully!"

It was the only way their lives could be saved, and he was the only man to see it. He watched
us until the girls touched the floor more dead than alive, and then his head fell back and
the life seemed to go suddenly out of him like the flame out of a candle, leaving only the
dead wick.

As they were carrying him out I noticed for the first time that a woman was holding his hand.
It was that frail little wisp of a Susy, that used to blush and tremble if you spoke to her
suddenly, and here she was quite quiet and steady in the midst of this great crowd.

"His sister, I suppose" one of the doctors said to her.

"No, sir. If he lives I will be his wife." The old gentleman was very respectful to her after
that, I noticed.

Now, the rest of my story is very muddled, you'll say, and confused. But the truth is, I don't
understand it myself. I ran on ahead to Mrs. Peters's to prepare his bed for him, but they
did not bring him to Peters's. After I waited an hour or two I found George had been taken
to the principal hotel in the place, and a bedroom and every comfort that money could buy were
there for him. Susy came home sobbing late in the night, but she told me nothing, except that
those who had a right to have charge of him had taken him. I found afterward the poor girl
was driven from the door of his room, where she was waiting like a faithful dog. I went myself,
but I fared no better. What with surgeons and professional nurses, and the gentlemen that crowded
about with their solemn looks of authority, I dared not ask to see him. Yet I believe still
George would rather have had old Loper by him in his extremity than any of them. Once, when
the door was opened, I thought I saw Mrs. Lloyd stooping over the bed between the lace curtains,
and just then her husband came out talking to one of the surgeons.

He said: "It is certain there were here the finest elements of manhood. And I will do my part
to rescue him from the abyss into which he has fallen."

"Will you tell me how George is, sir?" I asked, pushing up. "Balacchi? My partner?"

Mr. Lloyd turned away directly, but the surgeon told me civilly enough that if George's life
could be saved, it must be with the loss of one or perhaps both of his legs.

"He'll never mount a trapeze again, then," I said, and I suppose I groaned; for to think of
George helpless--

"God forbid!" cried Mr. Lloyd, sharply. "Now look here, my good man: you can be of no possible
use to Mr.--Balacchi as you call him. He is in the hands of his own people, and he will feel,
as they do, that the kindest thing you can do is to let him alone."

There was nothing to be done after that but to touch my hat and go out, but as I went I heard
him talking of "inexplicable madness and years of wasted opportunities."

Well, sir, I never went again: the words hurt like the cut of a whip, though 'twan't George
that spoke them. But I quit business, and hung around the town till I heard he was going to
live, and I broke up my contract with South. I never went on a trapeze again. I felt as if
the infernal thing was always dripping with his blood after that day. Anyhow, all the heart
went out of the business for me with George. So I came back here and settled down to the milling,
and by degrees I learned to think of George as a rich and fortunate man.

I've nearly done now--only a word or two more. About six years afterward there was a circus
came to town, and I took the wife and children and went. I always did when I had the chance.
It was the old Adam in me yet, likely.

Well, sir, among the attractions of the circus was the great and unrivalled Hercules, who could
play with cannon-balls as other men would with dice. I don't know what made me restless and
excited when I read about this man. It seemed as though the old spirit was coming back to me
again. I could hardly keep still when the time drew near for him to appear. I don't know what
I expected, but when he came out from behind the curtain I shouted out like a madman, "Balacchi!
George! George!"

He stopped short, looked about, and catching sight of me tossed up his cap with his old boyish
shout; then he remembered himself and went on with his performance.

He was lame--yes, in one leg. The other was gone altogether. He walked on crutches. Whether
the strength had gone into his chest and arms, I don't know; but there he stood tossing about
the cannon-balls as I might marbles. So full of hearty good-humor too, joking with his audience,
and so delighted when they gave him a round of applause.

After the performance I hurried around the tent, and you may be sure there was rejoicing that
made the manager and other fellows laugh.

George haled me off with him down the street. He cleared the ground with that crutch and wooden
leg like a steam-engine. "Come! come along!" he cried; "I've something to show you, Loper."

He took me to a quiet boarding-house, and there, in a cosey room, was Susy with a four-year-old
girl.

"We were married as soon as I could hobble about," he said, "and she goes with me and makes
a home wherever I am."

Susy nodded and blushed and laughed. "Baby and I," she said. "Do you see Baby? She has her
father's eyes, do you see?"

"She is her mother, Loper," said George--"just as innocent and pure and foolish--just as sure
of the Father in heaven taking care of her. They've made a different man of me in some ways--a
different man," bending his head reverently.

After a while I began, "You did not stay with--?" But Balacchi frowned. "I knew where I belonged,"
he said.

Well, he's young yet. He's the best Hercules in the profession, and has laid up a snug sum.
Why doesn't he invest it and retire? I doubt if he'll ever do that, sir. He may do it, but
I doubt it. He can't change his blood, and there's that in Balacchi that makes me suspect he
will die with the velvet and gilt on, and in the height of good-humor and fun with his audience.

AN OPERATION IN MONEY.

BY ALBERT WEBSTER.

I.

In an elegant and lofty bank-parlor there sat in council, on an autumn morning, fourteen millionaires.
They reposed in deep arm-chairs, and their venerable faces were filled with profound gravity.
Before them, upon a broad mahogany table, were piles of books, sheaves of paper in rubber bands,
bundles of quill pens, quires of waste paper for calculations, and a number of huge red-covered
folios, containing the tell-tale reports of the mercantile agencies. They had just completed
the selections from the list of applicants for discount, and were now in that state of lethargy
that commonly follows a great and important act.

The president, with his hands pressed together before him, was looking at the fresco of Commerce
upon the ceiling; his ponderous right-hand neighbor was stumbling feebly over an addition that
one of the bookkeepers had made upon one of the papers--he hoped to find it wrong; his left-hand
neighbor was doubling his under-lip with his stout fingers; an octogenarian beyond had buried
his chin in his immense neck, and was going to sleep; another was stupidly blinking at the
nearest coal-fire; two more were exchanging gasping whispers; another was wiping his gold spectacles
with a white handkerchief, now and then stopping to hold them unsteadily up to the light; and
another was fingering the polished lapel of his old black coat, and saying, with asthmatic
hoarseness to all who would look at him, "F-o-u-r-teen years! f-o-u-r-teen years!"

A tall regulator-clock, with its mercury pendulum, ticked upon the wall; the noise of the heavy
rumbling in the streets was softened into a low monotone, and now and then a bit of coal rattled
upon the fender.

The oil-portraits of four former presidents looked thoughtfully down on the scene of their
former labors; the polished wainscots reflected ragged pictures of the silent fourteen, and
all was perfectly in order and perfectly secure.

Presently, however, there was an end to the stagnation; the white heads began to move and to
look around.

The president's eyes came gradually down from the Commerce, and, after travelling over the
countenances of his stirring confrères, they settled by accident upon the table before him.
There they encountered a white envelope, inscribed "to the President and Honorable Board of
Directors--Present."

"Oh gentlemen! gentlemen!" cried the president, seizing the letter, "one moment more, I beg
of you. Here's a--a--note--a communication--a--I don't know what it is myself, I'm sure, but"--the
thirteen sank back again, feeling somewhat touched that they should be so restrained. The president
ran his eye over the missive. He smiled as one does sometimes at the precocity of an infant.
"The letter, gentlemen," said he, slipping the paper through his fingers, "is from the paying
teller. It is a request for"--here the president delayed as if about making a humorous point--"for
a larger salary." Then he dropped his eyes and lowered his head, as he might have done had
he confessed that somebody had kissed him. He seemed to be the innocent mouthpiece of a piece
of flagrant nonsense.

There was a moment's silence. Then a heavy-voiced gentleman took up a pen and said:

"Is this man's name Dreyfus--or--or what is it?"

"Let me think," returned the president, returning once more to the Commerce; "Dreyfus?--no--not
Dreyfus--yes--no. Paying teller--hum--it's curious I can't recall--it commences with an F--FIELDS--yes,
Fields! that's his name--Fields, to be sure!"

The questioner at once wrote down the word on the paper.

"This is the second time that he has applied for this favor, is it not?" formally inquired
another of the thirteen, in the tone that a judge uses when he asks the clerk, "Has he not
been before me on a former occasion?"

"Yes," replied the president, "this is a renewal of an effort made six months ago."

There was a general movement. Several chairs rolled back, and their occupants exchanged querulous
glances.

"Suppose we hear the letter read," suggested a fair soul. "Perhaps"--a septuagenarian, with
snowy hair and a thin body, clad in the clerical guise of the old school, and who had made
a fortune by inventing a hat-block, arose hastily to his feet, and said:

"I cannot stay to listen to a dun!"

A chorus from the majority echoed the exclamation. All but four staggered to their feet, and
tottered off in various directions; some to pretend to look out at the window, and some to
the wardrobes, where was deposited their outer clothing.

"Clarks," stammered the feeble hatter, feeling vainly for the arm-holes in his great-coat--"clarks
presume on their value. Turn 'em out, say I. Give 'em a chance to rotate. You've got my opinion,
Mr. President. Refuse what's-his-name, Fields. Tell him he's happy and well off now, without
knowing it. Where can be the sleeves to--to this"--his voice expired in his perplexity.

Fields's cause looked blue. One director after another groped to the door, saying, as he went,
"I can't encourage it, Mr. President--tell him 'No,' Mr. President--it would only make the
rest uneasy if we allowed it--plenty more to fill his place."

The hatter's voice stopped further mention of the subject. He stood at one end of the apartment
in a paroxysm of laughter. Tears filled his eyes. He pointed to another director, who, at the
other extremity of the room, was also puzzling over a coat. "There's Stuart with my mackintosh!
He's trying to put it on--and here am I with his coat trying to put that on. I--I said to myself,
'This is pretty large for a slim man like you.'--Great God, Stuart, if I hadn't been quick-sighted
we might have stayed here all night!" He immediately fell into another fit of laughter, and
so did his friend. They exchanged coats with great hilarity, and those who had gone out of
the door lumbered back to learn the cause of it. The story went round from one to the other,
"Why, Stuart had Jacobs's coat, and Jacobs had Stuart's coat!" Everybody went into convulsions,
and the president drew out his pocket-handkerchief and shrieked into it.

The board broke up with great good feeling, and Jacobs went away very weak, saying that he
was going to tell the joke against Stuart on the street--if he lived to get there.

Three gentlemen remained, professedly to hear Fields's letter read. Two staid because the room
was comfortable, and the other because he wanted to have a little private conversation with
the president afterward.

Therefore the president wiped away the tears that Stuart's humor had forced from his eyes,
and opened the crumpled letter, and, turning his back to the light, read it aloud, while the
rest listened with looks of great amusement in their wrinkled faces.

    "To the President and Directors of the ---- National Bank.

    "GENTLEMEN: I most respectfully renew my application for an increase
    of my salary to five thousand dollars per annum, it now being four
    thousand. I am impelled to do this because I am convinced that I am
    not sufficiently recompensed for the labor I perform; and because
    other tellers, having the same responsibilities, receive the larger
    sum per annum; and, lastly, because I am about to be married.

    "I remember that your answer to my first application was a definite
    refusal, and I blamed myself for not having presented the case more
    clearly to your distinguished notice. Will you permit me to rectify
    that fault now, and to state briefly why I feel assured that my
    present claim is not an unreasonable one?

    "1. While ten years ago we agreed that three thousand dollars was a
    fair compensation for the work I was then called upon to perform,
    and four years later agreed that four thousand dollars was then fair
    pay for my increased tasks, caused by the increase of your business,
    is it not just that I should now ask for a still further advance in
    view of the fact that your business has doubled since the date of
    our last contract?

    "It has been necessary for me to acquaint myself with the signatures
    and business customs and qualifications of twice the former number
    of your customers, and my liability to error has also become greater
    in like ratio. But I have committed no errors, which argues that I
    have kept up an equal strain of care. This has made demands upon my
    brain and my bodily strength, which I think should be requited for.

    "2. I, like each of you, will one day reach an age when the body and
    mind will no longer be able to provide for themselves. But between
    us, should we continue our present relations, there would be this
    vital difference: You would have made an accumulation of wealth that
    would be sufficient for your wants, while I would be poor in spite
    of the fact that I labored with you, and next to yourselves did the
    most to protect your interests. In view of my approaching
    incompetence (no matter how far off it is), I am working at a
    disadvantage. Would it not be right to enable me to protect myself
    from this disadvantage?

    "3. While you pay me a price for my labor and for my skill as an
    expert, do you compensate me for the trials you put upon my
    probity? You pay me for what I do, but do you reward me for what I
    might, but do not do? Is what I do not do a marketable
    quantity? I think that it is. To prove it, inquire of those whose
    servants have behaved ill, whether they would not have paid
    something to have forestalled their dishonesty.

    "There is a bad strain to this paragraph, and I will not dwell upon
    it. I only ask you to remember that enormous sums of money pass
    through my hands every day, and that the smallest slip of my memory,
    or of my care, or of my fidelity, might cause you irreparable loss.
    Familiarity with money and operations in money always tend to lessen
    the respect for the regard that others hold it in. To resist the
    subtle influences of this familiarity involves a certain wear and
    tear of those principles which must be kept intact for your sake.

    "I beg you to accept what is my evident meaning, even if my method
    of setting it forth has not been particularly happy. I have assured
    myself that my claim is a valid one, and I await your obliging reply
    with anxiety.

    "I remain, very respectfully, "Your obedient servant,

    "----FIELDS, Paying Teller."

At the end the president suddenly lowered his head with a smile, and looked over the top of
his glasses at his audience, clearly meaning, "There's a letter for you!"

But two of the gentlemen were fast asleep, nodding gently at one another across the table,
while their hands clasped the arms of their chairs. The other one was looking up toward the
roofs of the buildings opposite, absorbed in speculation.

The president said, aloud:

"I think, as long as Fields has made such a touse about it, that I'd better draft a reply,
and not give him a verbal an--"

"Draft!" said the speculator, brought to life by the word. "Draft did you say, sir? What?--On
whom?--"

"I said 'draft a reply' to--to this," returned the other, waving the letter.

"Oh, a reply! Draft one. Draft a reply--a reply to the letter about the salary. Oh, certainly,
by all means."

"And read it to the directors at the meeting next Friday," suggested the president.

The speculator's eyes turned vacantly upon him, and it was full half a minute before he comprehended.
"Yes, yes, of course, read it to the directors next Friday. They'll approve it, you know. That
will be regular, and according to rule. But about Steinmeyer, you know. When a man like Steinmeyer
does such a thing as--but just come to the window a minute."

He led the president off by the arm, and that was the last of Fields's letter for that day.

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

Fields was truly on the anxious-seat.

As he had said in his letter, he was engaged to be married, and he wanted to be about the consummation
of the contract, for he had already delayed too long. His affiancée was a sweet girl who lived
with her widowed mother in the country, where they had a fine house, and a fine demesne attached
to it. When the time for the marriage was finally settled upon, the lady instantly set about
remodelling her domicile and its surroundings, and making it fit for the new spirits that were
soon to inhabit it. She drew upon her accumulation of money that had thriven long in a private
bank, and expended it in laying out new lawns, planting new trees, building new stables, erecting
tasteful graperies and kiosks. This sum was not very large, and it included not only what had
been saved out of the earnings of the farm, but also what had been saved out of the income
from the widow's property, which consisted of twelve thousand dollars in insurance stock.

Fields had thus far expended nearly all of his salary of four thousand dollars. He was accustomed
to use a quarter of it for his own purposes, and the rest he applied to the comfort of his
aged parents, whom he maintained. Thus it will be seen that Fields's desire to add to his own
wealth had reason to be.

Just at this time there stepped in the Chicago fire. On the second day Fields began to be frightened
about the twelve thousand dollars in insurance stock. Telegrams poured into the city by hundreds,
and the tale grew more dismal with each hour.

His fears were realized. The widow's money was swept away, and a sort of paralysis fell upon
the country-house and all its surroundings. The carpenters went away from the kiosks, the masons
from the face-walls, the smiths from the graperies, the gardeners from the lawns, and everything
came to a stand-still. The extra farm-hands were discharged, and much of the work was left
unfinished.

What was to be done?

The mother and daughter wept in secret. Their careers had been interrupted. Desolation was
out-of-doors, and desolation was in their hearts. The earth lay in ragged heaps; beams and
timbers leaned half erect; barns were party-colored with the old paint and the new, and the
shrubbery was bare to the frosts. Joys which had smiled had fled into the far distance, and
now looked surly enough; all pleasures were unhorsed, and hope was down.

It was under these circumstances that Fields wrote a second time to the honorable board of
directors to ask them to pay him better wages.

Friday came. There was a meeting, and Fields knew that his case must now be receiving consideration.

At eleven o'clock the directors emerged from their parlor, and passed by his desk in twos and
threes, chatting and telling watery jokes, as most great men do.

"They look as if they had entirely forgotten me," said Fields to himself.

Pretty soon the cashier came and placed a letter upon his counter.

"Ah!" thought the teller, "I was mistaken. I wonder if I can read it here without changing
countenance?"

He could but try it. He tore off the envelope. It went thus:

    "Mr.----Fields, Paying Teller.

    "DEAR SIR: The president and directors, to whom you addressed a
    request for an increase of salary, must beg to criticise the
    arguments advanced in your polite note.

    "They do not understand why you should place a new value upon your
    honesty because in other people there happens to be sometimes such a
    thing as dishonesty. It is a popular notion that honesty among men
    is rare, but the idea is a mistaken one. Honesty of the purest kind,
    as honesty is usually understood, is very common. They cannot help
    feeling, also, that you somewhat overestimate the value of your
    work, which to them seems to be only a higher sort of routine,
    calling for no intellectual endeavor, and requiring but little more
    than an ordinary bookkeeper's care for its perfect performance. But
    for the differences that do exist between your tasks and those of
    the bookkeeper you will remember you are already compensated by a
    salary a fourth larger.

    "Briefly, they consider their bank a piece of money-making
    mechanism, of which you are an able and respected part; but they
    cannot understand how you could hope to raise their fear of
    peculations and villainies when their system of checks and
    counter-checks is so perfect. They have never lost a dollar by the
    immorality of any of their employés, and they are sure that matters
    are so arranged that any such immorality, even of the rankest kind,
    could occasion them no inconvenience.

    "Nor do they comprehend why your idea that increase of business
    justifies a request for an increase of salary may not be met with
    the suggestion that your hours of labor are the same as your former
    hours, and that all you were able to perform in those hours, to the
    best of your capacity, was purchased at the beginning of your
    connection with them.

    "In regard to the pure question of the sufficiency of your salary,
    they hint in the kindest manner that all expenditures are
    contractible as well as extensible.

    "They hasten to take this opportunity to express to you their
    appreciation of your perfect exhibits; and, complimenting you upon
    the care with which you have fulfilled the duties of your post, they
    remain your obedient servants."

The teller felt that a more maddening letter could not have been written. Its civility seemed
to him to be disagreeable suavity; its failure to particularize the points he made to be a
disgraceful evasion; and the liberty it took in generalizing his case to be an enormous insult.

The very first sentence on honesty put him in the light of a blackmailer--one that threatened
mischief if his demands were not complied with. The next sentence went to show that he was
an egotist, because he thought his labors required wear and tear of brain. The third called
him a sound cog-wheel. The latter part of the same said that a villain could do no evil if
he wished to, for they (the directors) had protected themselves against villains. Then it went
on to say that the writers did not understand how anxiety and caution could be involved in
the pursuit of his duties; and then it was thrown out that his marriage was his seeking--not
theirs. Finally, they patted him on the head.

The devil!

Fields passed a sleepless night. He felt that he had been belittled to the extremest point,
and that there was not a foothold left for his dignity. His soul was incised and chafed, and
he lay awake thinking that degradation of himself and his office could have proceeded no further.

Toward morning he hit upon a plan to establish himself in what he believed to be the proper
light. "It will require nerve," reflected he, doubtingly, "and not only nerve in itself, but
a certain exact quantity of it. Too much nerve would destroy me, and too little nerve would
do the same thing. I think, however, that I can manage it. I feel able to do anything. Even
a paying teller will turn if--" etc., etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

III.

On the following Monday there was a special meeting of the directors for the purpose of examining
the books and accounts of the bank. The bank-controller was expected to call for an exhibit
within the coming week, and it was desirable that the directors should feel assured that their
institution was in the proper order. The call of the controller was always impending. It might
come any day, and it would require an exhibit of the condition of the bank on any previous
day. He was permitted to make five of these calls during the year, and, inasmuch as he was
at liberty to choose his own days, his check upon the banks was complete. If he found a bank
that had not fulfilled the requirements of law, he was obliged to take away its charter, and
to close it: hence the examination-meeting in the present case. The accounts of the tellers
were passed upon, the cashier's books were looked over, as were also those of the regular bookkeepers.
There seemed to be no errors, and the contents of the safes were proved. There was perfect
order in all the departments. The clerks were complimented. "Now," said Fields to himself,
"is my opportunity."

On the next day at ten o'clock the directors again assembled--this time for their regular labors--to
examine the proposals for discount.

The day happened to be cold and stormy. The twenty clerks were busily and silently at work
behind their counters and gratings, and the fourteen directors were shut tight in their mahogany
room. There was but little passing to and fro from the street, though now and then a half-frozen
messenger came stamping in, and did his errand, with benumbed fingers, through the little windows.
The tempest made business light.

At eleven o'clock Fields wrote a note and sent it to the directors' room. The boy who carried
it knocked softly, and the president appeared, took the letter, and then closed the door again.

Then there was a moment of almost total silence; the clerks wrote, the leaves rattled, and
it seemed as if it were an instant before an expected explosion.

Presently an explosion came. The clerks heard with astonishment a tumult in the directors'
room--exclamations, hurried questions, the hasty rolling of chairs on their casters, and then
the sound of feet.

The door was hastily drawn open, and those who were near could see that nearly all the directors
were clustered around it, straining their eyes to look at the paying teller. Most of them were
pale and they called, in one voice, "Come here!" "Come in here at once!" "Fields!" "Mr. Fields!"
"Sir, you are wanted!" "Step this way instantly!" Fields put down his pen, opened the tall
iron gate which separated him from the counters, and walked rather quickly toward the den of
lions. An opening was made for him in the group, and he passed through the door, and it was
shut once more.

He walked across the room to the fireplace. He took out his handkerchief, and, seizing a corner
between a thumb and forefinger, slowly shook it open, and then turned around.

"This note, sir! What does it mean?" cried the president, advancing upon him, waving the paper
in his trembling hand.

"Have you read it?" demanded Fields, in a loud voice.

"Yes," said the president. He was astonished at Fields's manner. He cast a glance upon his
fellow-directors.

"Then what is the use of asking me what I mean? It is as plain as I can make it."

"But it says--but it says," faltered the venerable gentleman, turning the paper to the light,
"that you have only money enough to last until twelve o'clock. I have only got twenty-seven
thousand dollars!"

"But we counted three hundred and seventy-seven thousand dollars."

"When?"

"Yesterday."

"Yesterday--yes. But not this morning."

"Great God!" cried Stuart, thrusting himself forward, "what!--" He fixed his feeble eyes upon
Fields, but could speak no further. His arms fell down by his sides, and he began to tremble.
He did not have sufficient courage to ask the question. Somebody else did.

"What has become of it?"

"That I shall not tell you!" returned Fields, looking defiantly at one director after another.

"But is it gone?" cried the chorus. Many of the faces that confronted Fields had become waxen.
The little group was permeated with a tremor.

"Yes, it is gone; I have taken it."

"You have taken it!" "You have taken it!" "You have taken it!"

The directors, overwhelmed and confounded, retreated from Fields as if they were in personal
danger from him.

"In Heaven's name, Fields!" exclaimed the president, "speak out! Tell us! What!--where!--the
money! Come, man!"

"You had better lock the door," said the teller; "some one will be coming in."

One of the most feeble and aged of the board turned around and hastened, as fast as his infirm
limbs would permit him, and threw the bolt with feverish haste, and then ran back again to hear.

"Yes," said Fields, with deliberation, "I have taken the money. I have carried it away and
hidden it where no one can lay hands upon it but myself."

"Then--then, sir, you have stolen it!"

Fields bowed. "I have stolen it."

"But you have ruined us!"

"Possibly."

"And you have ruined yourself!"

"I am not so sure of that."

"Stop this useless talk!" cried a gentleman, who had heretofore been silent. He bent upon Fields
a look of great dignity. "Make it clear, sir, what you have done."

"Certainly. When I left the bank last night I put into my pockets one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars in greenbacks of the one-thousand-dollar denomination, one hundred thousand dollars
in national-currency notes of the one-hundred-dollar denomination, and one hundred thousand
dollars in gold certificates. I left to the credit of my account twenty-seven thousand eight
hundred and sixty-two dollars and some odd cents. Eight thousand of these have been already
drawn this morning. It is not unlikely that the whole of what is left may be drawn within the
next five minutes, and the next draft upon you will find you insolvent. If the balance is against
you at the clearing-house, you will undoubtedly be obliged to stop payment before one o'clock."

Fields's interlocutor turned sharply around and sank into his seat. At this three of the young
members of the board--Slavin, a wool-dealer, Debritt, a silk importer, and Saville, an insurance
actuary--made a violent onslaught upon the teller, but others interposed.

What was to be said? What was to be done? Somebody cried for a policeman, and would have thrown
up a window and called into the street. But the act was prevented. It was denounced as childish.
After a moment, everybody but Fields had seated himself in his accustomed place, overcome with
agitation. Those who could see devoured the teller with their eyes. Two others wept with puerile
fear and anger. They began to realize the plight they were in. It began to dawn upon them that
an immense disaster was hanging over their heads. How were they to escape from it? Which way
were they to turn to find relief? It was no time for brawling and denunciation; they were in
the hands of an unscrupulous man, who, at this crucial moment, was as cool and implacable as
an iceberg. They watched him carelessly draw and redraw his handkerchief through his fingers;
he was unmoved, and entirely at ease.

"Can it be possible!" said a tall and aged director, rising from his chair and bending upon
the culprit a look of great impressiveness--"can it be possible that it is our upright and
stainless clerk who confesses to such a stupendous villainy as this? Can it be that one who
has earned so much true esteem from his fellow-men thus turns upon them and--"

"Yes, yes, yes!" replied Fields, impatiently, "that is all true; but it is all sentiment. Let
us descend to business. I know the extent of my wickedness better than you do. I have taken
for my own use from your bank. I have robbed you of between a quarter and a half million of
dollars. I am a pure robber. That is the worst you can say of me. The worst you can do with
me is to throw me into prison for ten years. By the National Currency Act of 1865, section
55, you will see that for this offence against you I may be incarcerated from five to ten years--not
more than ten. If you imprison me for ten years, you do your worst. During those ten years
I shall have ample time to perfect myself in at least three languages, and to read extensively,
and I shall leave the jail at forty-five a polished and learned man, in the prime of life,
and possessed of enormous wealth. There will be no pleasure that I cannot purchase. I shall
become a good-natured cynic; I shall freely admit that I have disturbed the ordinary relations
of labor and compensation, but I shall so treat the matter that I shall become the subject
of a semi-admiration that will relieve me from social ostracism. I have carefully reviewed
the ground. I shall go to jail, pass through my trial, receive my sentence, put on my prisoner's
suit, begin my daily tasks, and all with as much equanimity as I possess at present. There
will be no contrition and no shame. Do not hope to recover a dollar of your money. I have been
careful to secrete it so that the most ingenious detectives and the largest rewards will not
be able to obtain a hint of its whereabouts. It is entirely beyond your reach."

Fields was now an entire master of the situation. The board was filled with consternation;
its members conferred together in frightened whispers.

"But," pursued Fields, "do you properly understand your situation? My desk is virtually without
money. My assistant at this instant may discover that he has not sufficient funds to pay the
check he has in his hand. In a moment more the street may be in possession of the facts. Besides
the present danger, have you forgotten the controller?" Nothing more could now add to the alarm
that filled the room.

"What shall we do, Fields? We cannot go under; we cannot--"

"I will tell you."

The room became silent again. All leaned forward to listen. Some placed their hands behind
their ears.

"I do not think that the drafts upon us to-day will amount to eighty thousand dollars. You
might draw that sum from the receiving teller, but that would occasion remark. I advise you
to draw from your private accounts elsewhere one hundred thousand dollars, and quietly place
it upon my counter. I would do it without an instant's delay."

"But what guarantee have we that you will not appropriate that also?"

"I give you my word," replied Fields, with a smile.

"And to what end do you advise us to keep the bank intact?"

"That we may have time to arrange terms."

"Terms--for what?"

"For a compromise."

"Ah-ha!"

Here was a patch of blue sky--a glimpse of the sun. Fields was not insensible to moderation,
after all.

"What do you propose?" eagerly demanded three voices.

"I think you had first better insure yourselves against suspension," was the reply.

In ten minutes one of the directors hurriedly departed, with five checks in his wallet. These
were the contributions of his fellows. The president passed out to see how matters stood at
the paying teller's desk. No more drafts had been presented, and the nineteen thousand dollars
were still undisturbed. He returned reassured. He locked the door again.

"Now, sir," said he to the paying teller, "let us go on."

"Very well," was the reply. "I think you all perceive by this time the true position of affairs.
I possess three hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and your bank has lost that sum. I have
detailed the benefits which will accrue to me, and the trouble which will in all likelihood
accrue to you. It will be unpleasant for you to throw your selves upon the mercies of your
stockholders. Stockholders are hard-hearted people. Each one of you will, in case this matter
is discovered, find his financial credit and his reputation for sagacity much impaired; and,
besides this, there will be incurred the dangers of a 'run' upon you, to say nothing of the
actual loss to the institution, which will have to be made good to the last dollar. But let
us see if we cannot do better. Notwithstanding the fact that I have fully made up my mind to
go to prison, I cannot deny that not to go to prison would be an advantage. Therefore, if you
will promise me immunity from prosecution, I will return to you to-morrow morning a quarter
of a million dollars. I ask you to give me a reply within five minutes. The proposition is
a bare one, and is sufficiently plain. I shall require your faith as directors and individuals,
and in return I will give my pledge, as a robber of the highest grade--a bond which perhaps
is as good as any that can be made under the circumstances."

The directors no sooner saw that it lay within their power to regain five-sevenths of their
money than they began, almost with one voice, threaten Fields with punishment if he did not
return the whole.

"Gentlemen," cried the paying teller, interrupting their exclamations, "I must impose one more
condition. It is that you do not mention this affair again--that you keep the whole matter
secret, and not permit it to be known beyond this apartment that I have had any other than
the most agreeable relations with you. All that is imperative. There remain but two more minutes.
The president will signify to me your decision."

The time elapsed. Fields put his watch into his pocket.

"Well, sir?" said he.

"We accept the terms," replied the president, bowing stiffly.

Fields also bowed. A silence ensued. Presently a director said to Fields:

"May I ask you what led you to this step?"

"Sir," replied the teller, with severity, "you are encroaching upon our contract. I may speak
of this affair, but you have no right to."

Then he turned to the board:

"Do you wish me to go back to my work?"

There was a consultation. Then the president said:

"If you will be so kind."

Fields complied.

The business of the day went forward as usual. The teller's counter-desk was supplied with
money, and no suspicion was aroused among his fellows.

As each director went out of the bank, he stopped at Fields's window, and addressed some set
remark to him upon business matters; and so intimate did the relations between them seem that
the clerks concluded that the lucky man was about to be made cashier, and they began to pay
him more respect.

In the intervening night there again recurred to the directors the enormity of the outrage
to which they had been subjected. The incident of recovering so large a part of what they had
originally supposed was gone had the effect of making them partially unmindful of the loss
of the smaller sum which the teller finally agreed to accept in place of punishment. But in
the lapse between the time of the robbery and the time of the promised restitution, their appreciation
of their position had time to revive again, and when they assembled on the next morning to
receive the money from Fields, they were anxious and feverish.

Would he come? Was he not at this moment in Canada? Would a man who could steal one hundred
thousand dollars return a quarter of a million? Absurd!

Every moment one of them went to the door to see if Fields had appeared. The rest walked about,
with their hands behind them, talking together incoherently. The air was full of doubts. The
teller usually came at a quarter past nine, but the hour arrived without the man. Intolerable
suspense!

Two or three of the directors made paths for themselves amid the chairs, and anxiously traversed
them. Slavin took a post beside a window and gazed into the street. Debritt, with his right
hand in his bosom, and with his left grasping the upper rail of a seat, looked fixedly into
the coals. Stuart sipped at a goblet of water, but his trembling hand caused him to spill its
contents upon the floor. No one now ventured to speak except in a whisper; it seemed that a
word or a loud noise must disturb the poise of matters. The clock ticked, the blue flames murmured
in the grate, and the pellets of sand thrown up by the wind rattled against the windows.

But yet there were no signs of the paying teller.

Was it possible that this immense sum of money was gone? Could it be true that they must report
this terrible thing to the world? Had they permitted themselves to become the lieutenants to
a wily scoundrel? Were they thus waiting silent and inactive while he was being borne away
at the speed of the wind, out of their reach?

All at once Fields came in at the door.

He was met with a gladness that was only too perceptible. Every gentleman emitted a sigh of
relief, and half started, as if to take the delinquent by the hand.

Fields had expected this. He was shrewd enough to act before the feeling had evaporated.

He advanced to the table. The directors hastened like schoolboys to take their accustomed places.
They bent upon the teller's face the most anxious looks.

"Gentlemen," said he, "I believe that you fully understand that I return this large sum of
money to you at my own option. You recognize the fact that most men would endure, for instance,
an imprisonment of ten years rather than lose the control of a quarter of a million of dollars."

The directors hastened to signify "Yes!"

"But," continued Fields, taking several large envelopes from his inner pockets, "I shall be
content with less. There is the sum I mentioned."

The directors fell upon the packages and counted their contents. The table was strewed with
money. Fields contemplated the scene with curiosity. Presently it was announced that the sum
was complete.

"Now, gentlemen," said Fields, "you have suffered loss. I have a hundred thousand dollars which
I have forced you to present me with. That is a large sum, though to us who are so familiar
with millions it seems small, almost insignificant; but, in reality, it has a great importance.
You now see, my friends, what a part of your money-making mechanism may achieve. There is no
bank, even of third-rate importance, in this city, whose receiving teller or paying teller
may not do exactly as I have done. On any day, at any hour, they may load themselves with valuables
and go away. You, and all directors, depend servilely upon the pure honesty of your clerks.
You can erect no barrier, no guard, no defence, that will protect you from the results of decayed
principle in them. They are deeply involved in dangerous elements. Ease, luxury, life-long
immunity from toil, wait upon their resolution to do ill. This resolution may be the determination
of an instant, or the result of long-continued sophistical reasoning. You cannot detect the
approach to such a resolve in your servant, and he, perhaps, can hardly detect it in himself.
But one day it is complete: he acts upon it. You are bereft of your property; he flees, and
there is the nine days' stir, and all is over. Your greatest surety lies in your appreciation
of your danger. I have proved to you what that danger consists of; you did not know before.
Your best means of defence is to respect, to the fullest extent, the people upon whom you depend.
They are worthy of it. An instant's reflection will show you that neither of you would be proof
against a strong temptation. For the sake of recovering a sum of money you have compounded
with felony. All of you are at this moment in breach of the law. You have submitted without
a struggle to the dominant impulse. The principle of exact honor which you demand in me does
not exist in yourselves. But let us end this disagreeable scene. Perhaps I have demonstrated
something that you never realized. I hope you understand. I now surrender to you the one hundred
thousand dollars, which you thought I had stolen. I had no intention of keeping it; I only
pretended to take it in order to impress you with my ideas."

Every director arose to his feet in haste. Fields placed another packet upon the table, and,
in face of the astonished board, left the apartment.

An hour afterward he was again summoned to the parlor. He advanced to his old position at the
end of the table. It was clear that the temper of the assembly was favorable to him.

"Mr. Fields," said the president, "your attack upon us was singular and rapid, and I think
it has made the mark that you intended it should. Your mode of convincing us was, one might
say, dramatic; and, though I believe you might have attained your object in another way, we
acknowledge that your letter had but little effect. We now wish to provide for you as you claim,
and as you deserve. But we cannot look upon you with quietude. It is almost impossible to see
you without shuddering. We must place you elsewhere. If you remained here, you would always
be in close proximity to a quarter of a million dollars."

"But you believe in my integrity?"

"Perfectly."

"You understand my motives?"

"Fully."

"And you acknowledge them to be just?"

"Unqualifiedly just."

"Well?"

"But you personify a terrible threat. You are an exponent of a great danger, and you could
not ask us to live with one who showed that he held a sword above our heads. That would be
impossible. We therefore offer you the position of actuary in the ---- Life. Mr. Stuart is
about to resign it, and at our request he has consented to procure you the chair. Your salary
will be thrice that you now receive. Do you accept?"

"Without an instant's hesitation," replied Fields.

He then shook hands with each director, and they separated excellent friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fields winged his way to the farm in the country, and told the news. That is, he told the best
of it. He told the actual news after hours, when there was but one to tell it to.

There was a shriek.

"Oh, if they had!"

"Had what--Sun and Moon!"

"Why, sent you to prison."

"Well, we should have had to wait ten years, that's all. After that, we should have been worth,
with interest added to the capital, five hundred and sixty thousand dollars."

"Sir! Can you suppose that I would ever marry a robber, a wretched robber?"

"Never! But it is different where one robs for the sake of principle."

"Y--yes, that is true; I forgot that. I think that principle is a great thing. Don't you?"

"Exceedingly great."

In the spring the face-walls and the lawns and the kiosks went forward according to the original
design, and the actuary frequently brought his city friends, directors and all, down to look
at them.

