Thorgils and his followers, as soon as they were on horseback, set off at a hard ride, and
rode now out of the wood. They saw four men riding away from the dairy, and they rode very
fast too. Seeing this, some of Thorgils' companions said they had better ride after them at
their swiftest. [Sidenote: The women leave the dairy] Then said Thorleik Bollison, "We will
just go to the dairy and see what men are there, for I think it less likely that these be Helgi
and his followers. It seems to me that those are only women." A good many of them gainsaid
this. Thorgils said that Thorleik should rule in the matter, for he knew that he was a very
far-sighted man. They now turned to the dairy. Hrapp rode first, shaking the spear-stick he
carried in his hand, and thrusting it forward in front of himself, and saying now was high
time to try one's self. Helgi and his followers were not aware of anything till Thorgils and
his company had surrounded the dairy. Helgi and his men shut the door, and seized their weapons.
Hrapp leapt forthwith upon the roof of the dairy, and asked if old Reynard was in. Helgi answered,
"You will come to take for granted that he who is here within is somewhat hurtful, and will
know how to bite near the warren." And forthwith Helgi thrust his spear out through the window
and through Hrapp, so that he fell dead to earth from the spear. Thorgils bade the others go
heedfully and beware of mishaps, "for we have plenty of means wherewith to get the dairy into
our power, and to overcome Helgi, placed as he is now, for I am given to think that here but
few men are gathered together." [Sidenote: The breaking of the beam] The dairy was rigged over
one roof-beam, resting on two gables so that the ends of the beam stuck out beyond each gable;
there was a single turf thatch on the house, which had not yet grown together. Then Thorgils
told some of his men to go to the beam ends, and pull them so hard that either the beam should
break or else the rafters should slip in off it, but others were to guard the door lest those
within should try and get out. Five they were, Helgi and his within the dairy--Hardbien, his
son, to wit, he was twelve years old--his shepherd and two other men, who had come to him that
summer, being outlaws--one called Thorgils, and the other Eyolf. Thorstein the Black and Svein,
son of Alf o' Dales, stood before the door. The rest of the company were tearing the roof off
the dairy. Hunbogi the Strong and the sons of Armod took one end of the beam, Thorgils, Lambi,
and Gudrun's sons the other end. They now pull hard at the beam till it broke asunder in the
middle; just at this Hardbien thrust a halberd out through where the door was broken, and the
thrust struck the steel cap of Thorstein the Black and stuck in his forehead, and that was
a very great wound. Then Thorstein said, as was true, that there were men before them. Next
Helgi leapt so boldly out of the door so that those nearest shrunk aback. Thorgils was standing
near, and struck after him with a sword, and caught him on the shoulder and made a great wound.
Helgi turned to meet him, and had a wood-axe in his hand, and said, "Still the old one will
dare to look at and face weapons," and therewith he flung the axe at Thorgils, and the axe
struck his foot, and a great wound that was. [Sidenote: Helgi's death] And when Bolli saw this
he leapt forward at Helgi with Footbiter in his hand, and thrust Helgi through with it, and
that was his death-blow. Helgi's followers leapt out of the dairy forthwith, and Hardbien with
them. Thorleik Bollison turned against Eyolf, who was a strong man. Thorleik struck him with
his sword, and it caught him on the leg above the knee and cut off his leg, and he fell to
earth dead.