  Nan-wang died soon after (256 B.C.), and a relative whom he had
  appointed regent was captured in 249 B.C., when the king of Ts'in put
  an end to this last remnant of the once glorious Chóu dynasty by
  annexing its territory. The king had already secured the possession of
  the Nine Tripods, huge bronze vases said to have been cast by the
  emperor Yü as representing the nine divisions of his empire and since
  preseryed in the treasuries of all the various emperors as a symbol of
  Imperial power. With the loss of these tripods Nan-wang had forfeited
  the right to call himself "Son of Heaven." Another prerogative was the
  offering of sacrifice to Shang-ti, the Supreme Ruler, or God, with
  whom only the emperor was supposed to communicate. The king of Ts'in
  had performed the ceremony as early as 253 B.C.    (F. H.*)

(C)--From the Ts'in Dynasty to 1875.

  Ts'in dynasty 249-210 B.C.

  Shi Hwang-ti.

  Shi Hwang-ti.

After the fall of the Chóu dynasty a kind of interregnum followed during which China was practically
without an emperor. This was the time when the state of Ts'in asserted itself as the leader
and finally as the master of all the contending states. Its king, Chau-siang, who died in 251
B.C., though virtually emperor, abstained from adopting the imperial title. He was succeeded
by his son, Hiao-wên Wang, who died after a three days' reign. Chwan-siang Wang, his son and
successor, was a man of no mark. He died in 246 B.C. giving place to Shi Hwang-ti, "the first
universal emperor." This sovereign was then only thirteen, but he speedily made his influence
felt everywhere. He chose Hien-yang, the modern Si-gan Fu, as his capital, and built there
a magnificent palace, which was the wonder and admiration of his contemporaries. He abolished
the feudal system, and divided the country into provinces over whom he set officers directly
responsible to himself. He constructed roads through the empire, he formed canals, and erected
numerous and handsome public buildings.

  Having settled the internal affairs of his kingdom, he turned his
  attention to the enemies beyond his frontier. Chief among these were
  the Hiung-nu Tatars, whose attacks had for years disquieted the
  Chinese and neighbouring principalities. Against these foes he marched
  with an army of 300,000 men, exterminating those in the neighbourhood
  of China, and driving the rest into Mongolia. On his return from this
  campaign he was called upon to face a formidable rebellion in Ho-nan,
  which had been set on foot by the adherents of the feudal princes whom
  he had dispossessed. Having crushed the rebellion, he marched
  southwards and subdued the tribes on the south of the Nan-shan ranges,
  i.e. the inhabitants of the modern provinces of Fu-kien, Kwang-tung
  and Kwang-si. The limits of his empire were thus as nearly as possible
  those of modern China proper. One monument remains to bear witness to
  his energy. Finding that the northern states of Ts'in, Chao and Yen
  were building lines of fortification along their northern frontier for
  protection against the Hiung-nu, he conceived the idea of building one
  gigantic wall, which was to stretch across the whole northern limit of
  the huge empire from the sea to the farthest western corner of the
  modern province of Kan-suh. This work was begun under his immediate
  supervision in 214 B.C. His reforming zeal made him unpopular with the
  upper classes. Schoolmen and pedants held up to the admiration of the
  people the heroes of the feudal times and the advantages of the system
  they administered. Seeing in this propaganda danger to the state Shi
  Hwang-ti determined to break once and for all with the past. To this
  end he ordered the destruction of all books having reference to the
  past history of the empire, and many scholars were put to death for
  failing in obedience to it. (See infra § Chinese Literature, §§
  History.) The measure was unpopular and on his death (210 B.C.)
  rebellion broke out. His son and successor Erh-shi, a weak and
  debauched youth, was murdered after having offered a feeble resistance
  to his enemies. His son Tsze-yung surrendered to Liu Pang, the prince
  of Han, one of the two generals who were the leaders of the rebellion.
  He afterwards fell into the hands of Hiang Yu, the other chieftain,
  who put him and his family and associates to death. Hiang Yu aspiring
  to imperial honours, war broke out between him and Liu Pang. After
  five years' conflict Hiang Yu was killed in a decisive battle before
  Wu-kiang. Liu Pang was then proclaimed emperor (206 B.C.) under the
  title of Kao-ti, and the new line was styled the Han dynasty.

  Han dynasty 206 B.C.

Kao-ti established his capital at Lo-yang in Ho-nan, and afterwards removed it to Chang-an
in Shen-si. Having founded his right to rebel on the oppressive nature of the laws promulgated
by Shi Hwang-ti, he abolished the ordinances of Ts'in, except that referring to the destruction
of the books--for, like his great predecessor, he dreaded the influence exercised by the literati--and
he exchanged the worship of the gods of the soil of Ts'in for that of those of Han, his native
state. His successor Hwei-ti (194-179 B.C.), however, gave every encouragement to literature,
and appointed a commission to restore as far as possible the texts which had been destroyed
by Shi Hwang-ti. In this the commission was very successful. It was discovered that in many
cases the law had been evaded, while in numerous instances scholars were found to write down
from memory the text of books of which all copies had been destroyed, though in some cases
the purity of the text is doubtful and in other cases there were undoubted forgeries. A period
of repose was now enjoyed by the empire. There was peace within its borders, and its frontiers
remained unchallenged, except by the Hiung-nu, who suffered many severe defeats. Thwarted in
their attacks on China, these marauders attacked the kingdom of the Yueh-chi, which had grown
up in the western extremity of Kan-suh, and after much fighting drove their victims along the
T'ien-shan-nan-lu to the territory between Turkestan and the Caspian Sea. This position of
affairs suggested to the emperor the idea of forming an offensive and defensive alliance with
the Yueh-chi against the Hiung-nu. With this object the general Chang K'ien was sent as an
ambassador to western Tatary. After having been twice imprisoned by the Hiung-nu he returned
to China. Chang K'ien had actually reached the court of the Yueh-chi, or Indo-Scythians as
they were called owing to their having become masters of India later on, and paid a visit to
the kingdom of Bactria, recently conquered by the Yueh-chi. His report on the several kingdoms
of western Asia opened up a new world to the Chinese, and numerous elements of culture, plants
and animals were then imported for the first time from the west into China. While in Bactria
Chan K'ien's attention was first drawn to the existence of India, and attempts to send expeditions,
though at first fruitless, finally led to its discovery. Under Wu-ti (140-86 B.C.) the power
of the Hiung-nu was broken and eastern Turkestan changed into a Chinese colony, through which
caravans could safely pass to bring back merchandise and art treasures from Persia and the
Roman market. By the Hans the feudal system was restored in a modified form; 103 feudal principalities
were created, but they were more or less under the jurisdiction of civil governors appointed
to administer the thirteen chows (provinces) into which the country was divided. About the
beginning of the Christian era Wang Mang rose in revolt against the infant successor of P'ing-ti
(A.D. 1), and in A.D. 9 proclaimed himself emperor. He, however, only gained the suffrages
of a portion of the nation, and before long his oppressive acts estranged his supporters. In
A.D. 23 Liu Siu, one of the princes of Han, completely defeated him. His head was cut off,
and his body was torn in pieces by his own soldiery.

  Eastern Han dynasty, A.D. 23.

Liu Siu, was proclaimed emperor under the title of Kwang-wu-ti, reigned from A.D. 58 to 76.
Having fixed on Lo-yang in Ho-nan as his capital, the line of which he was the first emperor
became known as the Eastern Han dynasty. It is also known as the Later Han dynasty. During
the reign of his successor Ming-ti, A.D. 65, Buddhism was introduced from India into China
(see ante § Religion). About the same time the celebrated general Pan Ch'ao was sent on an
embassy to the king of Shen-shen, a small state of Turkestan, near the modern Pidjan. Before
long he added the states of Shen-shen, Khotan, Kucha and Kashgar as apanages to the Chinese
crown, and for a considerable period the country enjoyed prosperity. The Han dynasty (including
in the term the Eastern Han dynasty) has been considered the first national dynasty and is
one of the most famous in China; nor has any ruling family been more popular. The Chinese,
especially the northern Chinese, still call themselves "the sons of Han." The wealth and trade
as well as the culture of the country was greatly developed, and the competitive examinations
for literary degrees instituted. The homogeneity of the nation was so firmly established that
subsequent dissensions and conquests could not alter fundamentally the character of the nation.

    Wei dynasty

  Towards the end of the 2nd century the power of the Eastern Hans
  declined. In 173 a virulent pestilence, which continued for eleven
  years, broke out. A magical cure for this plague was said to have been
  discovered by a Taoist priest named Chang Chio, who in a single month
  won a sufficiently large following to enable him to gain possession of
  the northern provinces of the empire. He was, however, defeated by
  Ts'aou Ts'aou, another aspirant to imperial honours, whose son, Ts'aou
  P'ei, on the death of Hien-ti (A.D. 220), proclaimed himself emperor,
  adopting the title of Wei as the appellation of his dynasty. There
  were then, however, two other claimants to the throne, Liu Pei and Sun
  Ch'üan, and the three adventurers agreed to divide the empire between
  them. Ts'aou P'ei, under the title of Wên-ti, ruled over the kingdom
  of Wei (220), which occupied the whole of the central and northern
  portion of China. Liu Pei established the Shuh Han dynasty in the
  modern province of Sze-ch'uen (221), and called himself Chao-lieh-ti;
  and to Sun Ch'üan fell the southern provinces of the empire, from the
  Yangtsze-kiang southwards, including the modern Tongking, which he
  formed into the kingdom of Wu with Nan-king for his capital, adopting
  for himself the imperial style of Ta-tê (A.D. 222).

    "Three kingdom" period.

    Western Tsin dynasty.

  China during the period of the "Three Kingdoms" was a house divided
  against itself. Liu Pei, as a descendant of the house of Han, looked
  upon himself as the rightful sovereign of the whole empire, and he
  despatched an army under Chu-ko Liang to support his claims. This army
  was met by an Oppossing force under the Wei commander Sze-ma I, of
  whom Chinese historians say that "he led armies like a god," and who,
  by adopting a Fabian policy, completely discomfited his adversary. But
  the close of this campaign brought no peace to the country. Wars
  became chronic, and the reins of power slipped out of the hands of
  emperors into those of their generals. Foremost among these were the
  members of the Sze-ma family of Wei. Sze-ma I left a son, Sze-ma Chao,
  scarcely less distinguished than himself, and when Sze-ma Chao died
  his honours descended to Sze-ma Yen, who deposed the ruling sovereign
  of Wei, and proclaimed himself emperor of China (A.D. 265). His
  dynasty he styled the Western Tsin dynasty, and he adopted for himself
  the title of Wu-ti. The most noticeable event in this reign was the
  advent of the ambassadors of the emperor Diocletian in 284. For some
  years the neighbouring states appear to have transferred their
  allegiance from the house of Wei to that of Tsin. Wu-ti's successors
  proving, however, weak and incapable, the country soon fell again into
  disorder. The Hiung-nu renewed incursions into the empire at the
  beginning of the 4th century, and in the confusion which followed, an
  adventurer named Liu Yuen established himself (in 311) as emperor,
  first at P'ing-yang in Shan-si and afterwards in Lo-yang and Chang-an.
  The history of this period is very chaotic. Numerous states sprang
  into existence, some founded by the Hiung-nu and others by the Sien-pi
  tribe, a Tungusic clan, inhabiting a territory to the north of China,
  which afterwards established the Liao dynasty in China. In 419 the
  Eastern Tsin dynasty came to an end, and with it disappeared for
  nearly two hundred years all semblance of united authority. The
  country became divided into two parts, the north and the south. In the
  north four families reigned successively, two of which were of Sien-pi
  origin, viz. the Wei and the How Chow, the other two, the Pih Ts'i and
  the How Liang, being Chinese. In the south five different houses
  supplied rulers, who were all of Chinese descent.

    Suy dynasty.

  This period of disorder was brought to a close by the establishment of
  the Suy dynasty (590). Among the officials of the ephemeral dynasty of
  Chow was one Yang Kien, who on his daughter becoming empress (578) was
  created duke of Suy. Two years later Yang Kien proclaimed himself
  emperor. The country, weary of contention, was glad to acknowledge his
  undivided authority; and during the sixteen years of his reign the
  internal affairs of China were comparatively peaceably administered.
  The emperor instituted an improved code of laws, and added 5000
  volumes to the 10,000 which composed the imperial library. Abroad, his
  policy was equally successful. He defeated the Tatars and chastised
  the Koreans, who had for a long period recognized Chinese suzerainty,
  but were torn by civil wars and were disposed to reject her authority.
  After his death in 604 his second son forced the heir to the throne to
  strangle himself, and then seized the throne. This usurper, Yang-ti,
  sent expeditions against the Tatars, and himself headed an expedition
  against the Uighurs, while one of his generals annexed the Lu-chu
  Islands to the imperial crown. During his reign the volumes in the
  imperial library were increased to 54,000, and he spent vast sums in
  erecting a magnificent palace at Lo-yang, and in constructing
  unprofitable canals. These and other extravagances laid so heavy a
  burden on the country that discontent began again to prevail, and on
  the emperor's return from a successful expedition against the Koreans,
  he found the empire divided into rebellious factions. In the troubles
  which followed General Li Yuen became prominent. On the death of the
  emperor by assassination this man set Kung-ti, the rightful heir, on
  the throne (617) until such time as he should have matured his
  schemes.

  Tang dynasty.

Kung-ti was poisoned in the following year and Li Yuen proclaimed himself as Kao-tsu, the first
emperor of the T'ang dynasty. At this time the Turks were at the height of their power in Asia
(see TURKS: History), and Kao-tsu was glad to purchase their alliance with money. But divisions
weakened the power of the Turks, and T'ai-tsung (reigned 627-650), Kao-tsu's son and successor,
regained much of the position in Central Asia which had formerly been held by China. In 640
Hami, Turfan and the rest of the Turkish territory were again included within the Chinese empire,
and four military governorships were appointed in Central Asia, viz. at Kucha, Khotan, Kharastan
and Kashgar. At the same time the frontier was extended as far as eastern Persia and the Caspian
Sea. So great was now the fame of China, that ambassadors from Nepal, Magadha, Persia and Constantinople
(643) came to pay their court to the emperor. Under T'ai-tsung there was national unity and
peace, and in consequence agriculture and commerce as well as literature flourished. The emperor
gave direct encouragements to the Nestorians, and gave a favourable reception to an embassy
from Mahommed (see ante § Religion). On the accession of Kao-tsung (650) his wife, Wu How,
gained supreme influence, and on the death of her husband in 683 she set aside his lawful successor,
Chung-tsung, and took possession of the throne. This was the first occasion the country was
ruled by a dowager empress. She governed with discretion, and her armies defeated the Khitán
in the north-east and also the Tibetans, who had latterly gained possession of Kucha, Khotan
and Kashgar. On her death, in 705, Chung-tsung partially left the obscurity in which he had
lived during his mother's reign. But his wife, desiring to play a similar rôle to that enjoyed
by her mother-in-law, poisoned him and set his son, Jui-tsung (710), on the throne. This monarch,
who was weak and vicious, was succeeded by Yuen-tsung (713), who introduced reform into the
administration and encouraged literature and learning. The king of Khokand applied for aid
against the Tibetans and Arabs, and Yuen-tsung sent an army to his succour, but his general
was completely defeated. During the disorder which arose in consequence of the invasion of
the northern provinces by the Khitán, General An Lu-shan, an officer of Turkish descent, placed
himself at the head of a revolt, and having secured Tung-kwan on the Yellow river, advanced
on Chang-an. Thereupon the emperor fled, and placed his son, Su-tsung (756-762), on the throne.
This sovereign, with the help of the forces of Khotan, Khokand and Bokhara, of the Uighurs
and of some 4000 Arabs sent by the caliph Mansur, completely defeated An Lu-shan. During the
following reigns the Tibetans made constant incursions into the western provinces of the empire,
and T'ai-tsung (763-780) purchased the assistance of the Turks against those intruders by giving
a Chinese princess as wife to the khan.

  At this epoch the eunuchs of the palace gained an unwonted degree of
  power, and several of the subsequent emperors fell victims to their
  plots. The T'ang dynasty, which for over a hundred years had governed
  firmly and for the good of the nation, began to decline. The history
  of the 8th and 9th centuries is for the most part a monotonous record
  of feeble governments, oppressions and rebellions. Almost the only
  event worth chronicling is the iconoclastic policy of the emperor
  Wu-tsung (841-847). Viewing the increase of monasteries and
  ecclesiastical establishments as an evil, he abolished all temples,
  closed the monasteries and nunneries, and sent the inmates back to
  their families. Foreign priests were subjected to the same repressive
  legislation, and Christians, Buddhists and Magi were bidden to return
  whence they came. Buddhism again revived during the reign of the
  emperor I-tsung (860-874), who, having discovered a bone of Buddha,
  brought it to the capital in great state. By internal dissensions the
  empire became so weakened that the prince of Liang found no difficulty
  in gaining possession of the throne (907). He took the title of
  T'ai-tsu, being the first emperor of the Later Liang dynasty. Thus
  ended the T'ang dynasty, which is regarded as being the golden age of
  Chinese literature.

  Five dynasties, viz. the Later Liang, the Later T'ang, the Later Tsin,
  the Later Han and the Later Chow, followed each other between the
  years 907 and 960. Though the monarchs of these lines nominally held
  sway over the empire, their real power was confined to very narrow
  limits. The disorders which were rife during the time when the T'ang
  dynasty was tottering to its fall fostered the development of
  independent states, and so arose Liang in Ho-nan and Shan-tung, Ki in
  Shen-si, Hwai-nan in Kiang-nan, Chow in Sze-ch'uen and parts of
  Shen-si and Hu-kwang, Wu-yu[)e] in Cheh-kiang, Tsu and King-nan in
  Hu-kwang, Ling-nan in Kwang-tung and the Uighurs in Tangut.

  Sung dynasty.

A partial end was made to this recognized disorganization when, in 960, General Chao Kw'ang-yin
was proclaimed by the army emperor in succession to the youthful Kung-ti, who was compelled
to abdicate. The circumstances of the time justified the change. It required a strong hand
to weld the empire together again, and to resist the attacks of the Khitán Tatars, whose rule
at this period extended over the whole of Manchuria and Liao-tung. Against these aggressive
neighbours T'ai-tsu (né Chao Kw'ang-yin) directed his efforts with varying success, and he
died in 976, while the war was still being waged. His son T'ai-tsung (976-997) entered on the
campaign with energy, but in the end was compelled to conclude a peace with the Khitán. His
successor, Chên-tsung (997-1022), paid them tribute to abstain from further incursions. Probably
this tribute was not sent regularly; at all events, under Jên-tsung (1023-1064), the Khitán
again threatened to invade the empire, and were only bought off by the promise of an annual
tribute of taels 200,000 of silver, besides a great quantity of silken piece goods. Neither
was this arrangement long binding, and so formidable were the advances made by the Tatars in
the foilowing reigns, that Hwei-tsung (1101-1126) invited the Nüchih Tatars to expel the Khitán
from Liao-tung. This they did, but having once possessed themselves of the country they declined
to yield it to the Chinese, and the result was that a still more aggressive neighbour was established
on the north-eastern frontier of China. The Nüchih or Kin, as they now styled themselves, overran
the provinces of Chih-li, Shen-si, Shan-si and Ho-nan, and during the reign of Kao-tsung (1127-1163)
they advanced their conquests to the line of the Yangtsze-kiang. From this time the Sung ruled
only over southern China; while the Kin or "Golden" dynasty reign«d in the north. The Kin made
Chung-tu, which occupied in part the site of the modern Peking, their usual residence. The
Sung fixed their capital at Nanking and afterwards at Hangchow. Between them and the Kin there
was almost constant war.

  Mongol invasion: 12th century.

During this period the Mongols began to acquire power in eastern Asia, and about the beginning
of the 12th century the forces of Jenghiz Khan (q.v.) invaded the north-western frontier of
China and the principality of Hia, which at that time consisted of the modern provinces of
Shen-si and Kan-suh. To purchase the good-will of the Mongols the king of Hia agreed to pay
them a tribute, and gave a princess in marriage to their ruler. In consequence of a dispute
with the Kin emperor Wei-shao Wang, Jenghiz Khan determined to invade Liao-tung. He was aided
by the followers of the Khitán leader Yeh-lü Ts'u-ts'ai, and in alliance with this general
he captured Liao-yang, the capital city.

  After an unsuccessful invasion of China in 1212, Jenghiz Khan renewed
  the attack in 1213. He divided his armies into four divisions, and
  made a general advance southwards. His soldiers swept over Ho-nan,
  Chih-li and Shan-tung, destroying upwards of ninety cities. It was
  their boast that a horseman might ride without stumbling over the
  sites where those cities had stood. Panic-stricken, the emperor moved
  his court from Chung-tu to K'ai-fêng Fu, much against the advice of
  his ministers, who foresaw the disastrous effect this retreat would
  have on the fortunes of Kin. The state of Sung, which up to this time
  had paid tribute, now declined to recognize Kin as its feudal chief,
  and a short time afterwards declared war against its quondam ally.
  Meanwhile, in 1215, Yeh-lü Ts'u-ts'ai advanced into China by the
  Shan-hai Kwan, and made himself master of Peking, one of the few
  cities in Chih-li which remained to Kin. After this victory his nobles
  wished him to proclaim himself emperor, but he refused, being mindful
  of an oath which he had sworn to Jenghiz Khan. In 1216 Tung-kwan, a
  mountain pass on the frontiers of Ho-nan and Shen-si, and the scene of
  numerous dynastic battles (as it is the only gateway between
  north-eastern and north-western China), was taken by the invaders. As
  the war dragged on the resistance offered by the Kin grew weaker and
  weaker. In 1220 Chi-nan Fu, the capital of Shan-tung, was taken, and
  five years later Jenghiz Khan marched an army westward into Hia and
  conquered the forces of the king. Two years later (1227) Jenghiz Khan
  died.

  With the view to the complete conquest of China by the Mongols,
  Jenghiz declined to nominate either of the eldest two sons who had
  been born to his Chinese wives as his heir, but chose his third son
  Ogdai, whose mother was a Tatar. On hearing of the death of Jenghiz
  Khan the Kin sent an embassy to his successor desiring peace, but
  Ogdai told them there would be no peace for them until their dynasty
  should be overthrown. Hitherto the Mongols had been without any code
  of laws. But the consolidation of the nation by the conquests of
  Jenghiz Khan made it necessary to establish a recognized code of laws,
  and one of the first acts of Ogdai was to form such a code. With the
  help also of Yeh-lü Ts'u-ts'ai, he established custom-houses in
  Chih-li, Shan-tung, Shan-si and Liao-tung; and for this purpose
  divided these provinces into ten departments. Meanwhile the war with
  the Kin was carried on with energy. In 1230 Si-gan Fu was taken, and
  sixty important posts were captured. Two years later, Tu-lé, brother
  of Ogdai, took Fêng-siang Fu and Han-chung Fu, in the flight from
  which last-named place 100,000 persons are said to have perished.
  Following the course of the river Han in his victorious career, this
  general destroyed 140 towns and fortresses, and defeated the army of
  Kin at Mount San-fêng.

    The Kin dynasty overthrown.

  In 1232 the Mongols made an alliance with the state of Sung, by which,
  on condition of Sung helping to destroy Kin, Ho-nan was to be the
  property of Sung for ever. The effect of this coalition soon became
  apparent. Barely had the Kin emperor retreated from K'ai-fêng Fu to
  Ju-ning Fu in Ho-nan when the former place fell into the hands of the
  allies. Next fell Loyang, and the victorious generals then marched on
  to besiege Ju-ning Fu. The presence of the emperor gave energy to the
  defenders, and they held out until every animal in the city had been
  killed for food, until every old and useless person had suffered death
  to lessen the number of hungry mouths, until so many able-bodied men
  had fallen that the women manned the ramparts, and then the allies
  stormed the walls. The emperor burned himself to death in his palace,
  that his body might not fall into the hands of his enemies. For a few
  days the shadow of the imperial crown rested on the head of his heir
  Chang-lin, but in a tumult which broke out amongst his followers he
  lost his life, and with him ended the "Golden" dynasty.

  Notwithstanding the treaty between Ogdai and Sung, no sooner were the
  spoils of Kin to be divided than war broke out again between them, in
  prosecuting which the Mongol armies swept over the provinces of
  Sze-ch'uen, Hu-kwang, Kiang-nan and Ho-nan, and were checked only when
  they reached the walls of Lu-chow Fu in Ngan-hui. Ogdai died in 1241,
  and was nominally succeeded by his grandson Cheliemên. But one of his
  widows, Tolickona, took possession of the throne, and after exercising
  rule for four years, established her son Kwei-yew as great khan. In
  1248 his life was cut short, and the nobles, disregarding the claims
  of Cheliemên, proclaimed as emperor Mangu, the eldest son of Tu-lé.
  Under this monarch the war against Sung was carried on with energy,
  and Kublai, outstripping the bounds of Sung territory, made his way
  into the province of Yun-nan, at that time divided into a number of
  independent states, and having attached them to his brother's crown he
  passed on into Tibet, Tongking and Cochin-China, and thence striking
  northwards entered the province of Kwang-si.

  Kublai Khan emperior.

On the death of Mangu in 1259 Kublai (q.v.) ascended the throne. Never in the history of China
was the nation more illustrious, nor its power more widely felt, than under his sovereignty.
During the first twenty years of his reign Sung kept up a resistance against his authority.
Their last emperor Ping-ti, seeing his cause lost, drowned himself in the sea. The Sung dynasty,
which had ruled southern China 320 years, despite its misfortunes is accounted one of the great
dynasties of China. During its sway arts and literature were cultivated and many eminent writers
flourished. His enemies subdued, Kublai Khan in 1280 assumed complete jurisdiction as emperor
of China. He took the title of Shit-su and founded what is known as the Yuen dynasty. He built
a new capital close to Chung-tu, which became known as Kaanbaligh (city of the khan), in medieval
European chronicles, Cambaluc, and later as Peking. At this time his authority was acknowledged
"from the Frozen Sea, almost to the Straits of Malacca. With the exception of Hindustan, Arabia
and the westernmost parts of Asia, all the Mongol princes as far as the Dnieper declared themselves
his vassals, and brought regularly their tribute." It was during this reign that Marco Polo
visited China, and he describes in glowing colours the virtues and glories of the "great khan."
His rule was characterized by discretion and munificence. He undertook public works, he patronized
literature, and relieved the distress of the poor, but the Chinese never forgot that he was
an alien and regarded him as a barbarian. He died unregretted in 1294. His son had died during
his lifetime, and after some contention his grandson Timur ascended the throne under the title
of Yuen-chêng. This monarch died in 1307 after an uneventful reign, and, as he left no son,
Wu-tsung, a Mongol prince, became emperor. To him succeeded Jên-tsung in 1312, who made himself
conspicuous by the honour he showed to the memory of Confucius, and by distributing offices
more equally between Mongols and Chinese than had hitherto been done. This act of justice gave
great satisfaction to the Chinese, and his death ended a peaceful and prosperous reign in 1320.
At this time there appears to have been a considerable commercial intercourse between Europe
and China. But after Jên-tsung's death the dynasty fell on evil days. The Mongols in adopting
Chinese civilization had lost much of their martial spirit. They were still regarded as alien
by the Chinese and numerous secret societies were formed to achieve their overthrow. Jên-tsung's
successors were weak and incapable rulers, and in the person of Shun-ti (1333-1368) were summed
up the vices and faults of his predecessors. Revolts broke out, and finally this descendant
of Jenghiz Khan was compelled to fly before Chu Yüen-chang, the son of a Chinese labouring
man. Deserted by his followers, he sought refuge in Ying-chang Fu, and there the last of the
Yüen dynasty died. These Mongol emperors, whatever their faults, had shown tolerance to Christian
missionaries and Papal legates (see ante § The Medieval Cathay).

  Ming dynasty.

Chu Yüen-chang met with little opposition, more especially as his first care on becoming possessed
of a district was to suppress lawlessness and to establish a settled government. In 1355 he
captured Nanking, and proclaimed himself duke of Wu, but carefully avoided adopting any of
the insignia of royalty. Even when master of the empire, thirteen years later, he still professed
to dislike the idea of assuming the imperial title. His scruples were overcome, and he declared
himself emperor in 1368. He carried his arms into Tatary, where he subdued the last semblance
of Mongol power in that direction, and then bent his steps towards Liao-tung. Here the Mongols
defended themselves with the bravery of despair, but unavailingly, and the conquest of this
province left Hung-wu, as the founder of the new or Ming ("Bright") dynasty styled himself,
without a foe in the empire.

  All intercourse with Europe seems now to have ceased until the
  Portuguese arrived in the 16th century, but Hung-wu cultivated
  friendly relations with the neighbouring states. As a quondam Buddhist
  priest he lent his countenance to that religion to the exclusion of
  Taoism, whose priests had for centuries earned the contempt of all but
  the most ignorant by their pretended magical arts and their search
  after the philosopher's stone. Hung-wu died in 1398 and was succeeded
  by his grandson Kien-Wên. Aware that the appointment of this
  youth--his father was dead--would give offence to the young emperor's
  uncles, Hung-wu had dismissed them to their respective governments.
  However, the prince of Yen, his eldest surviving son, rose in revolt
  as soon as the news reached him of his nephew's accession, and after
  gaining several victories over the armies of Kien-wên he presented
  himself before the gates of Nanking, the capital. Treachery opened the
  gates to him, and the emperor having fled in the disguise of a monk,
  the victorious prince became emperor and took the title of Yung-lo
  (1403). At home Yung-lo devoted himself to the encouragement of
  literature and the fine arts, and, possibly from a knowledge that
  Kien-wên was among the Buddhist priests, he renewed the law
  prohibiting Buddhism. Abroad he swept Cochin-China and Tongking within
  the folds of his empire and carried his arms into Tatary, where he
  made new conquests of waste regions, and erected a monument of his
  victories. He died in 1425, and was succeeded by his son Hung-hi.

  Hung-hi's reign was short and uneventful. He strove to promote only
  such mandarins as had proved themselves to be able and honest, and to
  further the welfare of the people. During the reign of his successor,
  Süen-tê (1426-1436), the empire suffered the first loss of territory
  since the commencement of the dynasty. Cochin-China rebelled and
  gained her independence. The next emperor, Chêng-t'ung (1436), was
  taken prisoner by a Tatar chieftain, a descendant of the Yüen family
  named Yi-sien, who had invaded the northern Erovinces. Having been
  completely defeated by a Chinese force from Liao-tung, Yi-sien
  liberated his captive, who reoccupied the throne, which during his
  imprisonment (1450-1457) had been held by his brother King-ti. The two
  following reigns, those of Chêng-hwa (1465-1488) and of Hung-chi
  (1488-1506), were quiet and peaceful.

    Struggle with Japan for Korea.

