This was too much for the doctor. He felt that there were tears in his eyes, so he walked away
to the window to dry them, unseen. Had he had fifty names, each more sacred than the other,
the most sacred of them all would hardly have been good enough for her.

"Mary what, doctor? Come, if the girl is to belong to me, if I am to provide for her, I must
know what to call her, and where to look for her."

"Who talked of your providing for her?" said the doctor, turning round at the rival uncle.
"Who said that she was to belong to you? She will be no burden to you; you are only told of
this that you may not leave your money to her without knowing it. She is provided for--that
is, she wants nothing; she will do well enough; you need not trouble yourself about her."

"But if she's Mary's child, Mary's child in real truth, I will trouble myself about her. Who
else should do so? For the matter of that, I'd as soon say her as any of those others in America.
What do I care about blood? I shan't mind her being a bastard. That is to say, of course, if
she's decently good. Did she ever get any kind of teaching; book-learning, or anything of that
sort?"

Dr Thorne at this moment hated his friend the baronet with almost a deadly hatred; that he,
rough brute as he was--for he was a rough brute--that he should speak in such language of the
angel who gave to that home in Greshamsbury so many of the joys of Paradise--that he should
speak of her as in some degree his own, that he should inquire doubtingly as to her attributes
and her virtues. And then the doctor thought of her Italian and French readings, of her music,
of her nice books, and sweet lady ways, of her happy companionship with Patience Oriel, and
her dear, bosom friendship with Beatrice Gresham. He thought of her grace, and winning manners,
and soft, polished feminine beauty; and, as he did so, he hated Sir Roger Scatcherd, and regarded
him with loathing, as he might have regarded a wallowing hog.

At last a light seemed to break in upon Sir Roger's mind. Dr Thorne, he perceived, did not
answer his last question. He perceived, also, that the doctor was affected with some more than
ordinary emotion. Why should it be that this subject of Mary Scatcherd's child moved him so
deeply? Sir Roger had never been at the doctor's house at Greshamsbury, had never seen Mary
Thorne, but he had heard that there lived with the doctor some young female relative; and thus
a glimmering light seemed to come in upon Sir Roger's bed.

He had twitted the doctor with his pride; had said that it was impossible that the girl should
be called Mary Thorne. What if she were so called? What if she were now warming herself at
the doctor's hearth?

"Well, come, Thorne, what is it you call her? Tell it out, man. And, look you, if it's your
name she bears, I shall think more of you, a deal more than ever I did yet. Come, Thorne, I'm
her uncle too. I have a right to know. She is Mary Thorne, isn't she?"

The doctor had not the hardihood nor the resolution to deny it. "Yes," said he, "that is her
name; she lives with me."

"Yes, and lives with all those grand folks at Greshamsbury too. I have heard of that."

"She lives with me, and belongs to me, and is as my daughter."

"She shall come over here. Lady Scatcherd shall have her to stay with her. She shall come to
us. And as for my will, I'll make another. I'll--"

"Yes, make another will--or else alter that one. But as to Miss Thorne coming here--"

"What! Mary--"

"Well, Mary. As to Mary Thorne coming here, that I fear will not be possible. She cannot have
two homes. She has cast her lot with one of her uncles, and she must remain with him now."

"Do you mean to say that she must never have any relation but one?"

"But one such as I am. She would not be happy over here. She does not like new faces. You have
enough depending on you; I have but her."

"Enough! why, I have only Louis Philippe. I could provide for a dozen girls."

"Well, well, well, we will not talk about that."

"Ah! but, Thorne, you have told me of this girl now, and I cannot but talk of her. If you wished
to keep the matter dark, you should have said nothing about it. She is my niece as much as
yours. And, Thorne, I loved my sister Mary quite as well as you loved your brother; quite as well."

Any one who might now have heard and seen the contractor would have hardly thought him to be
the same man who, a few hours before, was urging that the Barchester physician should be put
under the pump.

"You have your son, Scatcherd. I have no one but that girl."

"I don't want to take her from you. I don't want to take her; but surely there can be no harm
in her coming here to see us? I can provide for her, Thorne, remember that. I can provide for
her without reference to Louis Philippe. What are ten or fifteen thousand pounds to me? Remember
that, Thorne."

Dr Thorne did remember it. In that interview he remembered many things, and much passed through
his mind on which he felt himself compelled to resolve somewhat too suddenly. Would he be justified
in rejecting, on behalf of Mary, the offer of pecuniary provision which this rich relative
seemed so well inclined to make? Or, if he accepted it, would he in truth be studying her interests?
Scatcherd was a self-willed, obstinate man--now indeed touched by unwonted tenderness; but
he was one to whose lasting tenderness Dr Thorne would be very unwilling to trust his darling.
He did resolve, that on the whole he should best discharge his duty, even to her, by keeping
her to himself, and rejecting, on her behalf, any participation in the baronet's wealth. As
Mary herself had said, "some people must be bound together;" and their destiny, that of himself
and his niece, seemed to have so bound them. She had found her place at Greshamsbury, her place
in the world; and it would be better for her now to keep it, than to go forth and seek another
that would be richer, but at the same time less suited to her.

"No, Scatcherd," he said at last, "she cannot come here; she would not be happy here, and,
to tell the truth, I do not wish her to know that she has other relatives."

"Ah! she would be ashamed of her mother, you mean, and of her mother's brother too, eh? She's
too fine a lady, I suppose, to take me by the hand and give me a kiss, and call me her uncle?
I and Lady Scatcherd would not be grand enough for her, eh?"

"You may say what you please, Scatcherd: I of course cannot stop you."

"But I don't know how you'll reconcile what you are doing to your conscience. What right can
you have to throw away the girl's chance, now that she has a chance? What fortune can you give
her?"

"I have done what little I could," said Thorne, proudly.

"Well, well, well, well, I never heard such a thing in my life; never. Mary's child, my own
Mary's child, and I'm not to see her! But, Thorne, I tell you what; I will see her. I'll go
over to her, I'll go to Greshamsbury, and tell her who I am, and what I can do for her. I tell
you fairly I will. You shall not keep her away from those who belong to her, and can do her
a good turn. Mary's daughter; another Mary Scatcherd! I almost wish she were called Mary Scatcherd.
Is she like her, Thorne? Come tell me that; is she like her mother."

"I do not remember her mother; at least not in health."

"Not remember her! ah, well. She was the handsomest girl in Barchester, anyhow. That was given
up to her. Well, I didn't think to be talking of her again. Thorne, you cannot but expect that
I shall go over and see Mary's child?"

"Now, Scatcherd, look here," and the doctor, coming away from the window, where he had been
standing, sat himself down by the bedside, "you must not come over to Greshamsbury."

"Oh! but I shall."

"Listen to me, Scatcherd. I do not want to praise myself in any way; but when that girl was
an infant, six months old, she was like to be a thorough obstacle to her mother's fortune in
life. Tomlinson was willing to marry your sister, but he would not marry the child too. Then
I took the baby, and I promised her mother that I would be to her as a father. I have kept
my word as fairly as I have been able. She has sat at my hearth, and drunk of my cup, and been
to me as my own child. After that, I have a right to judge what is best for her. Her life is
not like your life, and her ways are not as your ways--"

"Ah, that is just it; we are too vulgar for her."

"You may take it as you will," said the doctor, who was too much in earnest to be in the least
afraid of offending his companion. "I have not said so; but I do say that you and she are unlike
in your way of living."

"She wouldn't like an uncle with a brandy bottle under his head, eh?"

"You could not see her without letting her know what is the connexion between you; of that
I wish to keep her in ignorance."

"I never knew any one yet who was ashamed of a rich connexion. How do you mean to get a husband
for her, eh?"

"I have told you of her existence," continued the doctor, not appearing to notice what the
baronet had last said, "because I found it necessary that you should know the fact of your
sister having left this child behind her; you would otherwise have made a will different from
that intended, and there might have been a lawsuit, and mischief and misery when we are gone.
You must perceive that I have done this in honesty to you; and you yourself are too honest
to repay me by taking advantage of this knowledge to make me unhappy."

"Oh, very well, doctor. At any rate, you are a brick, I will say that. But I'll think of all
this, I'll think of it; but it does startle me to find that poor Mary has a child living so
near to me."

"And now, Scatcherd, I will say good-bye. We part as friends, don't we?"

"Oh, but doctor, you ain't going to leave me so. What am I to do? What doses shall I take?
How much brandy may I drink? May I have a grill for dinner? D---- me, doctor, you have turned
Fillgrave out of the house. You mustn't go and desert me."

Dr Thorne laughed, and then, sitting himself down to write medically, gave such prescriptions
and ordinances as he found to be necessary. They amounted but to this: that the man was to
drink, if possible, no brandy; and if that were not possible, then as little as might be.

This having been done, the doctor again proceeded to take his leave; but when he got to the
door he was called back. "Thorne! Thorne! About that money for Mr Gresham; do what you like,
do just what you like. Ten thousand, is it? Well, he shall have it. I'll make Winterbones write
about it at once. Five per cent., isn't it? No, four and a half. Well, he shall have ten thousand
more."

"Thank you, Scatcherd, thank you, I am really very much obliged to you, I am indeed. I wouldn't
ask it if I was not sure your money is safe. Good-bye, old fellow, and get rid of that bedfellow
of yours," and again he was at the door.

"Thorne," said Sir Roger once more. "Thorne, just come back for a minute. You wouldn't let
me send a present would you,--fifty pounds or so,--just to buy a few flounces?"

The doctor contrived to escape without giving a definite answer to this question; and then,
having paid his compliments to Lady Scatcherd, remounted his cob and rode back to Greshamsbury.

CHAPTER XIV

Sentence of Exile

Dr Thorne did not at once go home to his own house. When he reached the Greshamsbury gates,
he sent his horse to its own stable by one of the people at the lodge, and then walked on to
the mansion. He had to see the squire on the subject of the forthcoming loan, and he had also
to see Lady Arabella.

The Lady Arabella, though she was not personally attached to the doctor with quite so much
warmth as some others of her family, still had reasons of her own for not dispensing with his
visits to the house. She was one of his patients, and a patient fearful of the disease with
which she was threatened. Though she thought the doctor to be arrogant, deficient as to properly
submissive demeanour towards herself, an instigator to marital parsimony in her lord, one altogether
opposed to herself and her interest in Greshamsbury politics, nevertheless, she did feel trust
in him as a medical man. She had no wish to be rescued out of his hands by any Dr Fillgrave,
as regarded that complaint of hers, much as she may have desired, and did desire, to sever
him from all Greshamsbury councils in all matters not touching the healing art.

Now the complaint of which the Lady Arabella was afraid, was cancer: and her only present confidant
in this matter was Dr Thorne.

The first of the Greshamsbury circle whom he saw was Beatrice, and he met her in the garden.

"Oh, doctor," said she, "where has Mary been this age? She has not been up here since Frank's
birthday."

"Well, that was only three days ago. Why don't you go down and ferret her out in the village?"

"So I have done. I was there just now, and found her out. She was out with Patience Oriel.
Patience is all and all with her now. Patience is all very well, but if they throw me over--"

"My dear Miss Gresham, Patience is and always was a virtue."

"A poor, beggarly, sneaking virtue after all, doctor. They should have come up, seeing how
deserted I am here. There's absolutely nobody left."

"Has Lady de Courcy gone?"

"Oh, yes! All the de Courcys have gone. I think, between ourselves, Mary stays away because
she does not love them too well. They have all gone, and taken Augusta and Frank with them."

"Has Frank gone to Courcy Castle?"

"Oh, yes; did you not hear? There was rather a fight about it. Master Frank wanted to get off,
and was as hard to catch as an eel, and then the countess was offended; and papa said he didn't
see why Frank was to go if he didn't like it. Papa is very anxious about his degree, you know."

The doctor understood it all as well as though it had been described to him at full length.
The countess had claimed her prey, in order that she might carry him off to Miss Dunstable's
golden embrace. The prey, not yet old enough and wise enough to connect the worship of Plutus
with that of Venus, had made sundry futile feints and dodges in the vain hope of escape. Then
the anxious mother had enforced the de Courcy behests with all a mother's authority. But the
father, whose ideas on the subject of Miss Dunstable's wealth had probably not been consulted,
had, as a matter of course, taken exactly the other side of the question. The doctor did not
require to be told all this in order to know how the battle had raged. He had not yet heard
of the great Dunstable scheme; but he was sufficiently acquainted with Greshamsbury tactics
to understand that the war had been carried on somewhat after this fashion.

As a rule, when the squire took a point warmly to heart, he was wont to carry his way against
the de Courcy interest. He could be obstinate enough when it so pleased him, and had before
now gone so far as to tell his wife, that her thrice-noble sister-in-law might remain at home
at Courcy Castle--or, at any rate, not come to Greshamsbury--if she could not do so without
striving to rule him and every one else when she got here. This had of course been repeated
to the countess, who had merely replied to it by a sisterly whisper, in which she sorrowfully
intimated that some men were born brutes, and always would remain so.

"I think they all are," the Lady Arabella had replied; wishing, perhaps, to remind her sister-in-law
that the breed of brutes was as rampant in West Barsetshire as in the eastern division of the
county.

The squire, however, had not fought on this occasion with all his vigour. There had, of course,
been some passages between him and his son, and it had been agreed that Frank should go for
a fortnight to Courcy Castle.

"We mustn't quarrel with them, you know, if we can help it," said the father; "and, therefore,
you must go sooner or later."

"Well, I suppose so; but you don't know how dull it is, governor."

"Don't I!" said Gresham.

"There's a Miss Dunstable to be there; did you ever hear of her, sir?"

"No, never."

"She's a girl whose father used to make ointment, or something of that sort."

"Oh, yes, to be sure; the ointment of Lebanon. He used to cover all the walls in London. I
haven't heard of him this year past."

"No; that's because he's dead. Well, she carries on the ointment now, I believe; at any rate,
she has got all the money. I wonder what she's like."

"You'd better go and see," said the father, who now began to have some inkling of an idea why
the two ladies were so anxious to carry his son off to Courcy Castle at this exact time. And
so Frank had packed up his best clothes, given a last fond look at the new black horse, repeated
his last special injunctions to Peter, and had then made one of the stately cortège which proceeded
through the county from Greshamsbury to Courcy Castle.

"I am very glad of that, very," said the squire, when he heard that the money was to be forthcoming.
"I shall get it on easier terms from him than elsewhere; and it kills me to have continual
bother about such things." And Mr Gresham, feeling that that difficulty was tided over for
a time, and that the immediate pressure of little debts would be abated, stretched himself
on his easy chair as though he were quite comfortable;--one may say almost elated.

How frequent it is that men on their road to ruin feel elation such as this! A man signs away
a moiety of his substance; nay, that were nothing; but a moiety of the substance of his children;
he puts his pen to the paper that ruins him and them; but in doing so he frees himself from
a score of immediate little pestering, stinging troubles: and, therefore, feels as though fortune
has been almost kind to him.

The doctor felt angry with himself for what he had done when he saw how easily the squire adapted
himself to this new loan. "It will make Scatcherd's claim upon you very heavy," said he.

Mr Gresham at once read all that was passing through the doctor's mind. "Well, what else can
I do?" said he. "You wouldn't have me allow my daughter to lose this match for the sake of
a few thousand pounds? It will be well at any rate to have one of them settled. Look at that
letter from Moffat."

The doctor took the letter and read it. It was a long, wordy, ill-written rigmarole, in which
that amorous gentleman spoke with much rapture of his love and devotion for Miss Gresham; but
at the same time declared, and most positively swore, that the adverse cruelty of his circumstances
was such, that it would not allow him to stand up like a man at the hymeneal altar until six
thousand pounds hard cash had been paid down at his banker's.

"It may be all right," said the squire; "but in my time gentlemen were not used to write such
letters as that to each other."

The doctor shrugged his shoulders. He did not know how far he would be justified in saying
much, even to his friend the squire, in dispraise of his future son-in-law.

"I told him that he should have the money; and one would have thought that that would have
been enough for him. Well: I suppose Augusta likes him. I suppose she wishes the match; otherwise,
I would give him such an answer to that letter as would startle him a little."

"What settlement is he to make?" said Thorne.

"Oh, that's satisfactory enough; couldn't be more so; a thousand a year and the house at Wimbledon
for her; that's all very well. But such a lie, you know, Thorne. He's rolling in money, and
yet he talks of this beggarly sum as though he couldn't possibly stir without it."

"If I might venture to speak my mind," said Thorne.

"Well?" said the squire, looking at him earnestly.

"I should be inclined to say that Mr Moffat wants to cry off, himself."

"Oh, impossible; quite impossible. In the first place, he was so very anxious for the match.
In the next place, it is such a great thing for him. And then, he would never dare; you see,
he is dependent on the de Courcys for his seat."

"But suppose he loses his seat?"

"But there is not much fear of that, I think. Scatcherd may be a very fine fellow, but I think
they'll hardly return him at Barchester."

"I don't understand much about it," said Thorne; "but such things do happen."

"And you believe that this man absolutely wants to get off the match; absolutely thinks of
playing such a trick as that on my daughter;--on me?"

"I don't say he intends to do it; but it looks to me as though he were making a door for himself,
or trying to make a door: if so, your having the money will stop him there."

"But, Thorne, don't you think he loves the girl? If I thought not--"

The doctor stood silent for a moment, and then he said, "I am not a love-making man myself,
but I think that if I were much in love with a young lady I should not write such a letter
as that to her father."

"By heavens! If I thought so," said the squire--"but, Thorne, we can't judge of those fellows
as one does of gentlemen; they are so used to making money, and seeing money made, that they
have an eye to business in everything."

"Perhaps so, perhaps so," muttered the doctor, showing evidently that he still doubted the
warmth of Mr Moffat's affection.

"The match was none of my making, and I cannot interfere now to break it off: it will give
her a good position in the world; for, after all, money goes a great way, and it is something
to be in Parliament. I can only hope she likes him. I do truly hope she likes him;" and the
squire also showed by the tone of his voice that, though he might hope that his daughter was
in love with her intended husband, he hardly conceived it to be possible that she should be so.

And what was the truth of the matter? Miss Gresham was no more in love with Mr Moffat than
you are--oh, sweet, young, blooming beauty! Not a whit more; not, at least, in your sense of
the word, nor in mine. She had by no means resolved within her heart that of all the men whom
she had ever seen, or ever could see, he was far away the nicest and best. That is what you
will do when you are in love, if you be good for anything. She had no longing to sit near to
him--the nearer the better; she had no thought of his taste and his choice when she bought
her ribbons and bonnets; she had no indescribable desire that all her female friends should
be ever talking to her about him. When she wrote to him, she did not copy her letters again
and again, so that she might be, as it were, ever speaking to him; she took no special pride
in herself because he had chosen her to be his life's partner. In point of fact, she did not
care one straw about him.

And yet she thought she loved him; was, indeed, quite confident that she did so; told her mother
that she was sure Gustavus would wish this, she knew Gustavus would like that, and so on; but
as for Gustavus himself, she did not care a chip for him.

She was in love with her match just as farmers are in love with wheat at eighty shillings a
quarter; or shareholders--innocent gudgeons--with seven and half per cent. interest on their
paid-up capital. Eighty shillings a quarter, and seven and half per cent. interest, such were
the returns which she had been taught to look for in exchange for her young heart; and, having
obtained them, or being thus about to obtain them, why should not her young heart be satisfied?
Had she not sat herself down obediently at the feet of her lady Gamaliel, and should she not
be rewarded? Yes, indeed, she shall be rewarded.

And then the doctor went to the lady. On their medical secrets we will not intrude; but there
were other matters bearing on the course of our narrative, as to which Lady Arabella found
it necessary to say a word or so to the doctor; and it is essential that we should know what
was the tenor of those few words so spoken.

How the aspirations, and instincts, and feelings of a household become changed as the young
birds begin to flutter with feathered wings, and have half-formed thoughts of leaving the parental
nest! A few months back, Frank had reigned almost autocratic over the lesser subjects of the
kingdom of Greshamsbury. The servants, for instance, always obeyed him, and his sisters never
dreamed of telling anything which he directed should not be told. All his mischief, all his
troubles, and all his loves were confided to them, with the sure conviction that they would
never be made to stand in evidence against him.

Trusting to this well-ascertained state of things, he had not hesitated to declare his love
for Miss Thorne before his sister Augusta. But his sister Augusta had now, as it were, been
received into the upper house; having duly received, and duly profited by the lessons of her
great instructress, she was now admitted to sit in conclave with the higher powers: her sympathies,
of course, became changed, and her confidence was removed from the young and giddy and given
to the ancient and discreet. She was as a schoolboy, who, having finished his schooling, and
being fairly forced by necessity into the stern bread-earning world, undertakes the new duties
of tutoring. Yesterday he was taught, and fought, of course, against the schoolmaster; to-day
he teaches, and fights as keenly for him. So it was with Augusta Gresham, when, with careful
brow, she whispered to her mother that there was something wrong between Frank and Mary Thorne.

"Stop it at once, Arabella: stop it at once," the countess had said; "that, indeed, will be
ruin. If he does not marry money, he is lost. Good heavens! the doctor's niece! A girl that
nobody knows where she comes from!"

"He's going with you to-morrow, you know," said the anxious mother.

"Yes; and that is so far well: if he will be led by me, the evil may be remedied before he
returns; but it is very, very hard to lead young men. Arabella, you must forbid that girl to
come to Greshamsbury again on any pretext whatever. The evil must be stopped at once."

"But she is here so much as a matter of course."

"Then she must be here as a matter of course no more: there has been folly, very great folly,
in having her here. Of course she would turn out to be a designing creature with such temptation
before her; with such a prize within her reach, how could she help it?"

"I must say, aunt, she answered him very properly," said Augusta.

"Nonsense," said the countess; "before you, of course she did. Arabella, the matter must not
be left to the girl's propriety. I never knew the propriety of a girl of that sort to be fit
to be depended upon yet. If you wish to save the whole family from ruin, you must take steps
to keep her away from Greshamsbury now at once. Now is the time; now that Frank is to be away.
Where so much, so very much depends on a young man's marrying money, not one day ought to be lost."

Instigated in this manner, Lady Arabella resolved to open her mind to the doctor, and to make
it intelligible to him that, under present circumstances, Mary's visits at Greshamsbury had
better be discontinued. She would have given much, however, to have escaped this business.
She had in her time tried one or two falls with the doctor, and she was conscious that she
had never yet got the better of him: and then she was in a slight degree afraid of Mary herself.
She had a presentiment that it would not be so easy to banish Mary from Greshamsbury: she was
not sure that that young lady would not boldly assert her right to her place in the school-room;
appeal loudly to the squire, and perhaps, declare her determination of marrying the heir, out
before them all. The squire would be sure to uphold her in that, or in anything else.

And then, too, there would be the greatest difficulty in wording her request to the doctor;
and Lady Arabella was sufficiently conscious of her own weakness to know that she was not always
very good at words. But the doctor, when hard pressed, was never at fault: he could say the
bitterest things in the quietest tone, and Lady Arabella had a great dread of these bitter
things. What, also, if he should desert her himself; withdraw from her his skill and knowledge
of her bodily wants and ailments now that he was so necessary to her? She had once before taken
that measure of sending to Barchester for Dr Fillgrave, but it had answered with her hardly
better than with Sir Roger and Lady Scatcherd.

When, therefore, Lady Arabella found herself alone with the doctor, and called upon to say
out her say in what best language she could select for the occasion, she did not feel to very
much at her ease. There was that about the man before her which cowed her, in spite of her
being the wife of the squire, the sister of an earl, a person quite acknowledged to be of the
great world, and the mother of the very important young man whose affections were now about
to be called in question. Nevertheless, there was the task to be done, and with a mother's
courage she essayed it.

"Dr Thorne," said she, as soon as their medical conference was at an end, "I am very glad you
came over to-day, for I had something special which I wanted to say to you:" so far she got,
and then stopped; but, as the doctor did not seem inclined to give her any assistance, she
was forced to flounder on as best she could.

"Something very particular indeed. You know what a respect and esteem, and I may say affection,
we all have for you,"--here the doctor made a low bow--"and I may say for Mary also;" here
the doctor bowed himself again. "We have done what little we could to be pleasant neighbours,
and I think you'll believe me when I say that I am a true friend to you and dear Mary--"

The doctor knew that something very unpleasant was coming, but he could not at all guess what
might be its nature. He felt, however, that he must say something; so he expressed a hope that
he was duly sensible of all the acts of kindness he had ever received from the squire and the
family at large.

"I hope, therefore, my dear doctor, you won't take amiss what I am going to say."

"Well, Lady Arabella, I'll endeavour not to do so."

"I am sure I would not give any pain if I could help it, much less to you. But there are occasions,
doctor, in which duty must be paramount; paramount to all other considerations, you know, and,
certainly, this occasion is one of them."

"But what is the occasion, Lady Arabella?"

"I'll tell you, doctor. You know what Frank's position is?"

"Frank's position! as regards what?"

"Why, his position in life; an only son, you know."

"Oh, yes; I know his position in that respect; an only son, and his father's heir; and a very
fine fellow, he is. You have but one son, Lady Arabella, and you may well be proud of him."

Lady Arabella sighed. She did not wish at the present moment to express herself as being in
any way proud of Frank. She was desirous rather, on the other hand, of showing that she was
a good deal ashamed of him; only not quite so much ashamed of him as it behoved the doctor
to be of his niece.

"Well, perhaps so; yes," said Lady Arabella, "he is, I believe, a very good young man, with
an excellent disposition; but, doctor, his position is very precarious; and he is just at that
time of life when every caution is necessary."

To the doctor's ears, Lady Arabella was now talking of her son as a mother might of her infant
when whooping-cough was abroad or croup imminent. "There is nothing on earth the matter with
him, I should say," said the doctor. "He has every possible sign of perfect health."

"Oh yes; his health! Yes, thank God, his health is good; that is a great blessing." And Lady
Arabella thought of her four flowerets that had already faded. "I am sure I am most thankful
to see him growing up so strong. But it is not that I mean, doctor."

"Then what is it, Lady Arabella?"

"Why, doctor, you know the squire's position with regard to money matters?"

Now the doctor undoubtedly did know the squire's position with regard to money matters,--knew
it much better than did Lady Arabella; but he was by no means inclined to talk on that subject
to her ladyship. He remained quite silent, therefore, although Lady Arabella's last speech
had taken the form of a question. Lady Arabella was a little offended at this want of freedom
on his part, and become somewhat sterner in her tone--a thought less condescending in her manner.

"The squire has unfortunately embarrassed the property, and Frank must look forward to inherit
it with very heavy encumbrances; I fear very heavy indeed, though of what exact nature I am
kept in ignorance."

Looking at the doctor's face, she perceived that there was no probability whatever that her
ignorance would be enlightened by him.

"And, therefore, it is highly necessary that Frank should be very careful."

"As to his private expenditure, you mean?" said the doctor.

"No; not exactly that: though of course he must be careful as to that, too; that's of course.
But that is not what I mean, doctor; his only hope of retrieving his circumstances is by marrying
money."

"With every other conjugal blessing that a man can have, I hope he may have that also." So
the doctor replied with imperturbable face; but not the less did he begin to have a shade of
suspicion of what might be the coming subject of the conference. It would be untrue to say
that he had ever thought it probable that the young heir should fall in love with his niece;
that he had ever looked forward to such a chance, either with complacency or with fear; nevertheless,
the idea had of late passed through his mind. Some word had fallen from Mary, some closely
watched expression of her eye, or some quiver in her lip when Frank's name was mentioned, had
of late made him involuntarily think that such might not be impossible; and then, when the
chance of Mary becoming the heiress to so large a fortune had been forced upon his consideration,
he had been unable to prevent himself from building happy castles in the air, as he rode slowly
home from Boxall Hill. But not a whit the more on that account was he prepared to be untrue
to the squire's interest or to encourage a feeling which must be distasteful to all the squire's
friends.

"Yes, doctor; he must marry money."

"And worth, Lady Arabella; and a pure feminine heart; and youth and beauty. I hope he will
marry them all."

Could it be possible, that in speaking of a pure feminine heart, and youth and beauty, and
such like gewgaws, the doctor was thinking of his niece? Could it be that he had absolutely
made up his mind to foster and encourage this odious match?

The bare idea made Lady Arabella wrathful, and her wrath gave her courage. "He must marry money,
or he will be a ruined man. Now, doctor, I am informed that things--words that is--have passed
between him and Mary which never ought to have been allowed."

And now also the doctor was wrathful. "What things? what words?" said he, appearing to Lady
Arabella as though he rose in his anger nearly a foot in altitude before her eyes. "What has
passed between them? and who says so?"

"Doctor, there have been love-makings, you may take my word for it; love-makings of a very,
very, very advanced description."

This, the doctor could not stand. No, not for Greshamsbury and its heir; not for the squire
and all his misfortunes; not for Lady Arabella and the blood of all the de Courcys could he
stand quiet and hear Mary thus accused. He sprang up another foot in height, and expanded equally
in width as he flung back the insinuation.

"Who says so? Whoever says so, whoever speaks of Miss Thorne in such language, says what is
not true. I will pledge my word--"

"My dear doctor, my dear doctor, what took place was quite clearly heard; there was no mistake
about it, indeed."

"What took place? What was heard?"

"Well, then, I don't want, you know, to make more of it than can be helped. The thing must
be stopped, that is all."

"What thing? Speak out, Lady Arabella. I will not have Mary's conduct impugned by innuendoes.
What is it that eavesdroppers have heard?"

"Dr Thorne, there have been no eavesdroppers."

"And no talebearers either? Will you ladyship oblige me by letting me know what is the accusation
which you bring against my niece?"

"There has been most positively an offer made, Dr Thorne."

"And who made it?"

"Oh, of course I am not going to say but what Frank must have been very imprudent. Of course
he has been to blame. There has been fault on both sides, no doubt."

"I utterly deny it. I positively deny it. I know nothing of the circumstances; have heard nothing
about it--"

"Then of course you can't say," said Lady Arabella.

"I know nothing of the circumstance; have heard nothing about it," continued Dr Thorne; "but
I do know my niece, and am ready to assert that there has not been fault on both sides. Whether
there has been any fault on any side, that I do not yet know."

"I can assure you, Dr Thorne, that an offer was made by Frank; such an offer cannot be without
its allurements to a young lady circumstanced like your niece."

"Allurements!" almost shouted the doctor, and, as he did so, Lady Arabella stepped back a pace
or two, retreating from the fire which shot out of his eyes. "But the truth is, Lady Arabella,
you do not know my niece. If you will have the goodness to let me understand what it is that
you desire I will tell you whether I can comply with your wishes."

"Of course it will be very inexpedient that the young people should be thrown together again;--for
the present, I mean."

"Well!"

"Frank has now gone to Courcy Castle; and he talks of going from thence to Cambridge. But he
will doubtless be here, backwards and forwards; and perhaps it will be better for all parties--safer,
that is, doctor--if Miss Thorne were to discontinue her visits to Greshamsbury for a while."

"Very well!" thundered out the doctor. "Her visits to Greshamsbury shall be discontinued."

"Of course, doctor, this won't change the intercourse between us; between you and the and the
family."

"Not change it!" said he. "Do you think that I will break bread in a house from whence she
has been ignominiously banished? Do you think that I can sit down in friendship with those
who have spoken of her as you have now spoken? You have many daughters; what would you say
if I accused them one of them as you have accused her?"

"Accused, doctor! No, I don't accuse her. But prudence, you know, does sometimes require us--"

"Very well; prudence requires you to look after those who belong to you; and prudence requires
me to look after my one lamb. Good morning, Lady Arabella."

"But, doctor, you are not going to quarrel with us? You will come when we want you; eh! won't you?"

