Amongst the strange survivals of early Eastern sects are the Druses of Lebanon, who might indeed
be described as the Freemasons of the East; their outer organization closely resembles that
of the Craft Degrees in Western Masonry, yet such is their power of secrecy that few if any
Europeans have ever succeeded in discovering the secret doctrines. That their tendency is largely
political admits of little doubt; in fact men intimately acquainted with the Near East have
declared that the influence they exercise over the politics of that region is as far-reaching
as that of the Grand Orient over the affairs of Europe and that they form the breeding-ground
of all political ideas and changes. Though small in numbers this mysterious society is composed
of past masters in the game of intrigue, who, whilst playing apparently a minor part at political
meetings, secret or otherwise, or even remaining completely silent, contrive to influence decisions
with startling results.

British Masonry

We shall now consider the further ways in which British Masonry differs from the Grand Orient.

In the first place, whilst working the same degrees, its rituals, formulas, and ceremonies,
as also the interpretation it places on words and symbols, are different in many essential points.

Secondly, British Masonry is essentially an honest institution. Whereas in the Grand Orient
the initiate is led through a maze of ceremonies towards a goal unknown to him which he may
discover too late to be other than he supposed, the British initiate, although admitted by
gradual stages to the mysteries of the Craft, knows nevertheless from the beginning the general
aim of the Order.

Thirdly, British Masonry is primarily philanthropic and the sums it devotes to charitable purposes
are immense. Since the war the three principal masonic charities have collected annually over
£300,000.

But the point to be emphasized here is that British Masonry is strictly non-political, not
merely in theory but in practice, and that it enforces this principle on every occasion. Thus
before the recent General Election, the Report of the Board of General Purposes, drawn up by
Grand Lodge on December 5, 1923, recalled to the notice of the Craft that "'all subjects of
a political nature are strictly excluded from discussion in masonic meetings,' this being in
accordance with long-established masonic tradition ... it follows from this that Masonry must
not be used for any personal or party purpose in connexion with an election." It further emphasized
the distinct caution "that any attempt to bring the Craft into the electioneering arena would
be treated as a serious masonic offence."

At the same time a fresh injunction was made with regard to the Grand Orient of France:

     As recognition was withdrawn from that body by the United Grand
     Lodge of England in 1878, ... it is considered necessary to warn
     all members of our lodges that they cannot visit any lodge under
     the obedience of a jurisdiction unrecognized by the United Grand
     Lodge of England; and further that under Rule 150 of the Book of
     Constitutions, they cannot admit visitors therefrom.

