"Then I tried my embroidery again, but it was no use--I could not get the right stitch without
some help from Mary. Then a thought came across my mind--why could I not just run down there?
Baby would surely sleep for an hour, and I could easily be back within that time. He could
not possibly fall out of the hammock, for there were strings tied to some of the cords, which
could be fastened above him. I thought of telling Bridget I was going, so she would have 'an
eye out' in case he should awake, but I knew she would be crabbed about it, and feel as if
I were imposing on her, even if he did not give a single 'peep.' So I tied him in very carefully--he
gave another little sob as I kissed him, and I was so sorry I had been cross to him. In ten
minutes more I was running in at Mrs. Hathaway's gate.

"I had been going toward the north, so I did not notice that a black, curiously shaped cloud,
which lay low in the south as I left home, was rising very fast. Mrs. Hathaway told me Mary
was out in an arbor back of the house, so I ran out there, and for a little while we were so
deep in the embroidery that I forgot to notice how dark it was getting. Then there came a flash
of lightning--oh, how white and terrible that lightning was! It came all about us; we seemed
wrapped up in it; and such a burst of thunder as I never heard before or since. It sounded
like a cannon-ball falling right at our feet.

"As soon as we could move we flew into the house. I was wild with fright as I saw the awful
blackness in the sky. Great drops of rain began to fall, and peal after peal of thunder came,
as I snatched my bonnet and rushed to the door. Mary seized my arm and held me back. She cried,
'You must not go; indeed you shall not go out in such a storm.'

"Mrs. Hathaway came up to me too, and put her arm around me. 'Why, Janet, you can not go, my
child. It might be at the risk of your life.'

"I think they almost meant to keep me by force, but I screamed out, 'I must go! I will! I will!'
and I broke away from them, and rushed out into that blinding storm. I couldn't think of anything
except the poor baby I had left all alone. There was no one there to take care of him, no one
knew where he was, and in the noise of the storm nobody could hear him scream.

"The rain poured down in sheets by the time I reached Mrs. Hathaway's gate. It seemed almost
to beat me down to the ground, and the water was over my shoes in half a minute. The lightning
seemed like one long flash, and the thunder never stopped. I staggered on and floundered on,
and slipped down and got up again, all the time just saying to myself, 'The baby! the baby!--if
I could only reach him and find him alive!'

"Then it seemed as if night came down all at once. It got dark in one minute, and I heard a
horrible roaring sound behind me--louder than all the thunder. I heard a long, rattling crash,
and then another. It was Mrs. Hathaway's house and barn going to pieces, but I didn't know
it then. I heard people scream; I heard all sorts of things whizzing about me, but it was too
dark to see much. Things came striking against me, and soon a heavy thing came banging against
me on one side, and just as I was falling down something seemed to pick me up, and I was whirled
and twisted round and round, till I didn't know anything more.

"When I opened my eyes the rain was falling on my face. It was lighter, and I saw boards and
timbers, and trees and branches and bushes, lying all about me. I was in a field not far from
home. I felt dizzy, and didn't remember anything at first, and then I thought of little Harry,
and sprang up to run to him. But, oh, how sick and sore I felt! When I tried to lift a heavy
branch which was lying partly over me, I could raise only one of my arms.

"But my feet were all right, and I ran as fast as I could toward home. I saw my father in the
road in front of the house, looking up and down, with a white, frightened face. He hurried
toward me.

"'Where have you been, child?' he said. 'I must go to see if anything has happened to your
mother, but I could not go till I knew you and Harry were safe-- Why, dear, you are hurt!'

"But I ran past him, crying, 'The baby, father, he's in the hammock--come quick!'

"When we got round to the grove I screamed at what I saw. The trees lay about as if a scythe
had mown them down. I hardly knew the place, or where to look for Harry.

"One of the trees the hammock was tied to was lying exactly where I had left my little brother.
Another tree was blown right across it. Father did not stop to look, but called the hired man,
and they brought axes and saws. I stooped down and listened, though I felt sure the dear little
one must be dead. But I heard a sad little sob, as if he had cried till he was worn out. I
was so glad, I got up and danced. But father shook his head and said, 'He's alive, but how
do we know how he may be hurt.' They chopped away at the branches, while I held my breath,
oh, how long, long it seemed to wait! I crouched down and crept as near the baby as I could.
I called to him, and he gave a pitiful little cry; he expected me to take him at once, and
I was glad he got angry because he had to wait. He tried to free himself from the hammock,
and I began to hope he might not be much hurt.

"At last a great branch was taken away, and I got closer to him. I called father, and we looked
under, and I heard him say, 'Thank God!'

"There the darling was, in a kind of little bower made by two big branches which came down
on each side of him. They had saved him when the other tree fell. His forehead was scratched
deeply, but nothing else ailed him. Father reached in and cut away the hammock with his knife,
and drew him out with hands that shook as if he had an ague fit. The little fellow held out
his arms to me; but as I tried to take him my strength all seemed to go away. I grew dizzy,
and fell down. Bridget took the child, and father carried me in and laid me on a bed.

"Then he and Bridget tried to get us into dry clothes. But I cried out every time they touched
me, till father was nearly at his wits' end. I called aloud for mother. I knew she would not
hurt me so.

"'I will go now and see where she is, dear,' father said at last, wiping his forehead. 'The
good Lord only knows where she may be--and the little ones. I'll bring some one to help you,
poor child.'

"The sun was shining brightly again by this time, but as I lay there, with a great deal of
pain in my arm and head, I seemed to feel that black storm coming after me yet. The roar, roar,
roar kept on in my head, and the bed was whirling up in the clouds with me, and Mary Hathaway
was holding me, while some one pelted me with the stars; and mother said, 'Oh, my poor darling--look
at her head!'

"Then the moon peeped at me, and said, 'Her arm is broken in two places.'

"It was the doctor who said this, and mother had really come to me. After that I seemed to
be climbing and climbing through trees--oh, so long! I kept on for years, always hunting for
little Harry, hearing him cry for me, and never able to reach him. But at last I saw a light--I
had been in the dark all the time--and I struggled toward it, and looked out. Mother was there,
but not Harry.

"'Where is he?' I cried.

"'Who, dear?' she said.

"'Why, the baby--little Harry,' I said. 'I was almost up to him.'

"'Here he is.'

"She lifted him up to me, and I tried to take him, but I could not raise myself, and was glad
to find that I was in my own bed. I went off into a long sleep, and when I awoke I didn't want
anything except to lie quiet and know mother was caring for me, and that Harry sometimes came
toddling into my room, for he had learned to walk during the long weeks I had been sick.

"Well, that is about all there is of it. My arm was a long time getting well, and will always
be crooked, like this. The doctor said it would have got entirely well if it had not been for
the fever.

"But, dear me, how much thinking I did when my head got clear enough to think! When I was out
in the storm all I had ever heard about the wrath of God on the children of disobedience seemed
to come back to me. How I was punished! If I had been faithful to my duty, I should have been
safe at home when the storm came. I shall always feel as if I knew something of that awful
wrath, for wasn't I taken up in God's terrible hand?

"When I was getting well I began to wonder why Mary Hathaway never came to see me. Mother put
off telling me as long as she could that she and a younger sister had been killed in a moment
by the falling of their house, and that Mrs. Hathaway was crippled for life. None of us had
been hurt but me. Mother had got beyond the track of the worst part of the storm, but her horse
was killed by the lightning. Father lost his barns, most of his stock, and nearly all his crops.

"That's the story of the terrible tornado. Its path was not more than half a mile wide, and
it was all over in less than half an hour. Mother says I grew five years older on that day,
and I think she is right."

"MOONSHINERS."

BY E. H. MILLER.

CHAPTER I.

CONNY LOSES HIS FATHER.

Dr. Hunter was riding leisurely on his morning rounds among the few people who managed to be
sick at Dunsmore in spite of the clear sweet air that carried the balmy scent of the forests
into all its pleasant valleys. Under the seat of his sulky was his little old-fashioned box
of medicines, and close at his hand a tin box containing what was in the doctor's eyes quite
as valuable--a specimen of a rare plant which he had discovered in a cleft of gray rock, and
secured at the cost of some pretty hard climbing. The road upon which he was driving wound
along the mountain-side, and he could look down upon the tops of the trees below, noting here
and there the scattered buildings and stacks of feed that marked some little farm in a clearing,
and from the very densest spot of all a faint thread of blue smoke rising above the trees.
He had often noticed it, and more than once had asked about it, but no one gave him any satisfactory
answer. You would have supposed that of all the men and women in Dunsmore not one had even
chanced to see that smoke until the doctor's eyes had spied it.

"Smoke, sor?--so it be," said old Timothy, with a great pretense of straining his eyes to see
it. "It's a fire in the woods, belike. Some tramping fellows on a hunt."

"It is always in one spot," said the doctor, "though sometimes it disappears for weeks. Is
there any road that way?"

"Not the track of a squurl, yer honor. There's not a wilder bit in all the State, I'm thinkin'."

"I believe one might find a way on horseback," said the doctor, "and I shall try it some day."

"Ye'd best not do it. I'd be loath to see ye leaving a good trade for a bad one." Timothy grasped
his hickory cane, and shook his grizzled head at the doctor. Then, coming a step nearer, he
whispered, "Moonshiners."

"To be sure," said the doctor, turning again to look at the smoke.

"It's a bad business," said Timothy, carefully studying the doctor's face.

"Yes, it's a bad business, making whiskey, or selling it, or drinking it; but paying a tax
to the government does not make it any better. I believe every dollar that comes to the government
from such a source is a curse."

Timothy drew a long breath.

"You're right, sor. I'm not beholden to the stuff myself; but yer honor's done me a good turn,
and I couldn't see ye bringin' trouble on yerself by askin' too many questions. It mightn't
be--pop'lar, sor."

The doctor asked no more questions, but he watched the blue smoke more curiously than ever,
wondering much about the outlaws who carried on their secret trade in the mountain fastnesses.
He had been thinking of them that very morning as he rode along, with the reins lying loosely
on his knee, when suddenly Prince gave a start that roused his driver. A small figure stepped
out from the shadow of a rock, and stood close beside the gig, saying,

"Would you come to my feyther, sir?"

"Who is your father?" asked the doctor.

"He's sick this three days," answered the boy.

"What is his name? Where do you live?"

"It's not far, sir," said the boy, without answering the question.

"Well, jump in here;" and the doctor held down his hand.

"Ye'll not be riding, sir; it's a bit off the road."

The doctor hesitated a moment, then fastened Prince securely in the edge of the woods, and
with his box in his hand prepared to follow his guide.

"Now, then, Johnny, go ahead."

"My name is Conny, sir," said the boy.

"Conny, is it? And what else?"

"Just Conny, sir;" and the boy led the way rapidly through what looked like a pathless tangle,
until below a sharp ledge of rocks they struck a little stream by whose side they found a narrow
but easy passage into the very heart of the wood.

"Surely no human being can live here," thought the doctor; but at that very moment they came
upon a small weather-beaten cabin, so low and gray that one might easily have passed it unnoticed
among the rocks that hung over it, and the bushes that crowded around and in front of it. The
roof, thatched with bark, had fallen in at one end, and the place looked as if it might have
been forsaken for years. But the boy led him around to the rear, and they entered quite a comfortable
room, with a decent bed in one corner, on which a man was lying with his face to the wall.

"Feyther," said the boy, "I've brought the doctor to ye."

The man neither moved nor answered, and the doctor, going up to the bed, was shocked to see
that he was dead. He turned to Conny and asked, "Has your father been long sick?"

"Always sick, sir. He couldn't work at the North, and they told him if he came here the air
would cure him, and the smell of the trees, but he coughed just the same."

"Where is your mother?"

"Dead, sir."

"And there is no one but you and your father?"

"Only us two, sir."

"Conny," said the doctor, slowly, "I am afraid your father is dead."

Conny did not answer for a moment, but his thin brown face settled into a look of disappointment.

"He said he should die, sir, and nothing could save him, but I thought maybe if you came--
Couldn't you try something? They brought Black Joe round when he'd been long in the water,
and was dead and cold--brought him round with rubbing, and stuff they put in his mouth. Isn't
there something in your box that'll do it?"

"Nothing," said the doctor; "he is quite dead, my boy. You had better come with me, and I will
send some one to attend to your father."

But no persuasion could induce Conny to leave the cabin, and the doctor was forced to return
without him. For a quiet man, the doctor was greatly excited over the mystery of the little
cabin, but old Timothy said, coolly, "That would be Sandy McConnell: one o' the moonshiners:
varmint, all on 'em."

"But, Timothy, some one must see that he has a decent burial, and if you'll take a couple of
men with you, and go down there--"

"Wait till to-morrow morning," said Timothy, significantly. "The birds of the air 'tend to
their own funerals."

A terrific storm that swept over the mountains that afternoon compelled the doctor to follow
Timothy's advice. The next morning, when they succeeded, with much difficulty, in finding their
way through the tangle, the cabin was empty of every trace of human occupancy, and almost seemed
as if it might have been undisturbed since the wood-choppers abandoned it. Under a great pine,
a few rods away, they found a new-made grave, carefully sodded, and bound over, in old-country
fashion, with green withes.

"The moonshiners have buried him," said Timothy. "I told ye, sor, they'd see to their own funerals."

"I wish I knew what had become of the boy," said the doctor, as they slowly picked their way
upward; "he seemed such a quaint, old-fashioned little chap."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

  BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

     About the 1st of August I found some big worms crawling on an
     ailantus-tree in our yard. They were about two and a half inches
     long, of a pale green color, with white humps all over them, and
     beautiful blue spots on their heads. Mamma caught them for me, and
     we put them on a board with some ailantus leaves, and turned a
     large wire sieve over them. Every morning I gave them fresh leaves
     to eat, and in two or three days they began to spin themselves
     into cocoons. Some rolled themselves up in the leaves, while
     others clung to the side of the sieve, covering themselves at
     first with a thin white film, through which we could see the worm
     for half a day working himself back and forth. Then the film grew
     so thick we could not see the worm any more. When they had all
     formed cocoons mamma stood them away in a quiet place where
     nothing could injure them, and I went every morning to see if
     anything had come out of the cocoons. About three weeks passed,
     when one morning I found three magnificent moths clinging to the
     sieve. Mamma put ether on their heads, and they never moved again.
     She fastened them in a box for me, and arranged the wings, and
     they are just as beautiful as they can be. They spread about four
     inches. The color is reddish-brown, and across the middle of the
     wings there is a whitish line shading off into a clay-colored
     border. In the centre of each wing there is a long reddish-white
     spot, and on the tip of each fore-wing is a dark bluish eye. On
     the head are delicate feathered antennæ. Mamma found a picture of
     the moth in a book. We are sure it belongs to the genus Attacus,
     and we think it is the kind called Attacus promethia.

  SARAH W. N.

       *       *       *       *       *

  EDNA, MINNESOTA.

     About a month ago a man caught a young whooping-crane, which I
     bought of him. It is now so tame that it will eat out of my hand,
     and come in the house and eat from the table, or drink out of the
     water pail. I keep him tied out back of the house by a string
     about two rods long, so that he can walk around. He is not a very
     small bird, if he is young. His neck is about two feet long, and
     his legs are very nearly the same length, and when he stands up
     straight he is about five feet high. He is not fully fledged yet.
     His body is now about as large as that of a goose.

     I like to write. I am not a very good writer, but I think I can be
     a better one if I write a great deal. I am the lame boy whose
     letters you printed in the Post-office Box last winter.

  ELMER R. BLANCHARD.

       *       *       *       *       *

  PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.

     Since my request for exchanges was published in YOUNG PEOPLE I
     have received a great many letters from all parts of the United
     States, and I would like to inform the correspondents that I will
     answer all of them in due time. Now I am very busy. I am getting a
     new book and fixing it up, my school has commenced, and I am
     taking music lessons on the piano. I can play familiar tunes like
     the "Racquet Polka," "Fatinitza," "Pinafore," and others. I am
     also taking German lessons.

  WILLIE H. SCHERZER.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Clarence L. can buy silk-worms, and obtain all information in
     regard to them, at the southwest corner of Juniper and Chestnut
     streets, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, or at the Educational
     Department of the Permanent Exhibition, in the same city.

  PAUL DE M.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ASHLAND, KENTUCKY.

     I have seen a real live white crow. It belongs to a gentleman
     living on Big Sandy River. The white crow was seen by several
     persons, who tried to shoot it. At last the gentleman who now owns
     it shot it in the wing. It was not much hurt, and soon got well.
     Its owner was offered three hundred dollars for it, but he would
     not sell it. A good many people go to see it.

  WILLIE S. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  RADNOR, OHIO.

     I wish some correspondent would tell me how to feather arrows. I
     have made a bow and some nice arrows, but I can not feather them.

     I am making a collection of old coins. Are any other
     correspondents doing the same?

  B. I.

       *       *       *       *       *

  NEW YORK CITY.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE very much. I am ten years old. I have no pets
     except a canary named David. I would like to know what to feed him
     with besides sugar and seed, for I think he must be tired of
     eating those all the time.

     I have a collection of stamps. I like the Post-office Box ever so
     much.

  ANN A. N.

Too much sugar is not good for your canary. You can vary his diet by giving him a leaf of fresh
lettuce about once a week, or a bit of hard cracker to pick at. Whole oatmeal or grits, and
a piece of apple or pear occasionally, are healthy food. These tidbits must be given sparingly,
for if the bird eats them constantly it will grow so fat that it can not sing. The staple food
should be canary seed mixed with rape, and there must always be a piece of cuttle-fish fastened
in the cage.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MATTAPOISETT, MASSACHUSETTS.

     Here is a spelling game I invented, which may be played by two or
     more persons. The first player, who may be chosen by lot, proposes
     two letters, as, for example, c o. Then each player must in turn
     call a word beginning with those letters, as come. A player is
     beaten if he says a word beginning with any other than the letters
     named, or calls a word already given, or a meaningless word, or,
     when only two are playing, if his opponent makes two correct words
     while he is thinking of his. The addition of s is not considered
     to form a new word where it merely constitutes a plural.

     I made a salt-water aquarium five days ago, and it is all right. I
     have two eels, one minnow, and five other fish, some hermit-crabs,
     scallops, and periwinkles. I had a pipe-fish, but it died soon
     after I put it in. I use a small wash-tub for the aquarium, with
     sand on the bottom. I had two minnows at first, but this morning I
     found one on the floor, dead. What do you suppose made it jump
     out? There is sea-lettuce in the water, so there must be enough
     air. How long must the aquarium stand in the sun for the ulva to
     work? And with what shall I feed the crabs?

  W. A.

The directions in the paper on "A Salt-water Aquarium," in YOUNG PEOPLE No 42, are as clear
as it is possible to give them, but they must be supplemented by experience, which, if you
persevere, you will very soon gain. The ulva will work in an hour's time when placed in the
sun, as you will see by the rising of the tiny air-bubbles, but it may be necessary to renew
the exposure to the sun for a short time each day, always taking care that the temperature
of the water is not too much increased. If your crabs will not eat bits of clam, try them with
tiny mouthfuls of fish. Be careful to allow no uneaten food to remain in the water. Experience,
which you will quickly gain, will insure you success.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have a great many German, French, Austrian, and English postage
     stamps, and would like to exchange with any who are beginning a
     collection. I can get all kinds of stamps.

     I am a native of England. I have been two years in America, and I
     think it is a very nice country.

  FRANK B. WESTWOOD,
  P. O. Box 4574, New York City.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am nearly twelve years old, and I like YOUNG PEOPLE very much.

     I am making a collection of postage stamps, and would like to
     exchange with any other boy.

     I can not get many kinds of stamps in this out-of-the-way place.

  HORACE RANDOLPH,
  Sherman, Grayson County, Texas.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I come from the far South, where I spend the winter in New
     Orleans. I am collecting postage stamps, and would like to
     exchange with any readers of YOUNG PEOPLE.

  EDWARD L. HUNT,
  Barrytown, Dutchess County, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I take HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, and think it is a splendid paper for
     boys and girls.

     I have a collection of postage stamps, and would like to exchange
     with any of the readers of YOUNG PEOPLE.

  HENRY A. BLAKESLEY,
  54 West Eighth Street, Topeka, Kansas.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I think YOUNG PEOPLE is the best paper that I ever read, and I
     think the Post-office Box is one of the nicest things in it.

     I am collecting relics and minerals, and would like to exchange
     petrified wood for relics. I will also exchange a
     chimney-swallow's egg for the egg of any bird except a robin, blue
     jay, or chipping sparrow.

  W. A. WEBSTER,
  394 Clinton Avenue, Brooklyn, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange birds' eggs with any of the readers of
     YOUNG PEOPLE. Correspondents will please state what kind of eggs
     they have to exchange, and what they would like in return.

  GUSSIE HARTMAN,
  65 Cass Street, Chicago, Illinois.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange postmarks for stamps with any of the
     readers of YOUNG PEOPLE.

  GEORGE G. OMERLY,
  616 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I must write, dear YOUNG PEOPLE, to tell you how I love you.
     Through you I have made the acquaintance of little "Wee Tot." I
     have sent her some Lake Michigan shells, and she has sent me some
     lovely ocean curiosities, some of which are star-fishes,
     sea-urchins, and beautiful shells.

     I would like to exchange slips of wax-plant, sweet-scented
     geranium, and fuchsias with any readers for more ocean
     curiosities, only I wish some one would please tell me how to send
     them safely.

  ANNA WIERUM,
  495 West Twelfth Street, Chicago, Illinois.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I like to read history, and about brave men, and I think "The
     Story of the American Navy" is splendid.

     I am collecting postage stamps, and have over one hundred
     duplicates, which I would like to exchange with the readers of
     YOUNG PEOPLE.

  ROBERT LAMP,
  Care of William Lamp, Madison, Wisconsin.

       *       *       *       *       *

     My sister takes YOUNG PEOPLE, and I read it every week. The story
     of "The Moral Pirates" was splendid. I work out all the puzzles,
     and read the stories and the letters.

     I would like to exchange stamps and birds' eggs with any of the
     readers of YOUNG PEOPLE.

  OSCAR RAUCHFUSS,
  Golconda, Pope County, Illinois.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have been taking HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE from our news-dealer, and
     I find it a very interesting and instructive paper for the young.

     I will exchange foreign postage stamps and United States postage
     and revenue stamps with the readers of YOUNG PEOPLE.

  ALEXANDER A. REEVES,
  Emporia, Lyon County, Kansas.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange a specimen of the soil of Georgia for
     some of the soil of any other State.

  JAMES L. JOHNSON,
  76 Jones Street, Savannah, Georgia.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am collecting birds' eggs, and have about one hundred varieties,
     but I need eggs of hawks, owls, eagles, whip-poor-wills, quails,
     partridges, prairie-hens, terns, snipes, plovers, gulls, finches,
     divers, loons, and other birds, and also the nest and egg of the
     humming-bird. I have a collection of nearly six hundred stamps,
     which I will exchange for birds' eggs or Indian relics.

  HARRY F. HAINES,
  1259 Waverley Place, Elizabeth, New Jersey.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Papa takes HARPER'S BAZAR, WEEKLY, and MAGAZINE for himself and
     mamma, and YOUNG PEOPLE for sister Mabel and me. We think it is a
     splendid little paper.

     I have twenty different kinds of flower seeds, and would like to
     exchange with some little girls in the far West and South.

  GRACE DENTON,
  114 Thirty-ninth Street, South Brooklyn,
  Kings County, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I shall be very grateful if any correspondents who can will send
     me specimens of minerals or fossil formations in exchange for the
     beautiful quartz crystals that we find imbedded in the rock at
     this place. I am also anxious to get some pretty shells,
     especially from the Southern and Western coasts. I will return any
     excess of postage on packages.

  SUSIE C. BENEDICT,
  Little Falls, Herkimer County, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have a nice collection of curiosities, and if Ida B. D., of
     California, will kindly send me some shells from the Pacific
     coast, especially some abalone shells, and some sea-mosses, I will
     exchange any of my curiosities for them. My curiosities consist of
     stalactites, stalagmites, conglomerates, crystals, Indian
     arrow-heads (some of which are broken), gypsum, iron ore, and a
     great many pretty pebbles and stones that I find on the sand-bars
     along Green River. If she sends me any specimens, will she please
     mark the name and where each one is from?

  JOHN H. BARTLETT, Jun.,
  Greensburgh, Green County, Kentucky.

       *       *       *       *       *

JESSE HARGRAVE.--The poet alluded to by Scott in the forty-first chapter of The Heart of Mid-Lothian,
as "him of the laurel wreath," was Robert Southey, who was appointed poet laureate of England
in 1813. The lines quoted are from Southey's poem of "Thalaba the Destroyer," eleventh book,
thirty-sixth stanza.

       *       *       *       *       *

W. W. S.--Many thanks for your kind attention in sending us the interesting facts concerning
the nesting of English sparrows in trees. These little foreigners will pile the mass of dried
grass, hair, and other rubbish which composes their nest, on any ledge or shelf which will
support it, and if a decayed stump or deserted nest affords such support, they are quite as
ready to use it as they are to take possession of the little houses which kind hands fasten
to the branches of trees. They will also build in woodbine and ivy, the strong branches of
which, clinging to the brick or stone wall, form a solid support, quite as good as the ledge
over a window or door. Almost any corner is acceptable to these little fellows. A lady who
had been absent from the city during the summer, on returning home found one of her chamber
windows taken full possession of by the sparrows. The blinds had been closed, and the space
between them and the window was stuffed full of rubbish, the birds using an open slat as an
entrance to their cozy home. We know of no instance where sparrows have woven an independent
nest, and fastened it to the branches of a tree, and for that reason we have not classed them
among birds that build their nests in trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

W., F., and S.--To make a boat scup set two upright posts firmly in the ground about four or
five feet apart. Connect them at the top by a strong bar, across which at the centre fasten
another bar at right angles. The boat, which should have a seat at each end, is hung by four
stout ropes, one to each corner, so as to balance well, to the connecting bar. A rope passing
from each end of the cross-bar enables the occupants to swing the boat forward and backward.
The upright posts should be well braced. If you can visit some park or picnic ground where
one of these swings is in operation, you will understand better how to build one.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM F. S.--The coins you describe belong to the class known as business tokens. They are
issued by private parties, and are valueless.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLARENCE E. and F. B. W.--You can get the back numbers of YOUNG PEOPLE you require by forwarding
the necessary amount to the publishers, with your full address. They will cost four cents for
each copy.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDDIE DE LIMA.--The oldest text-book on arithmetic employing the Arabian or Indian figures
(those at present in use), and the decimal system, is that of Avicenna, an Arabian physician
who lived in Bokhara about A.D. 1000. It was found in manuscript in the library at Cairo, Egypt,
and contains, besides the rules for addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, many
peculiar properties of numbers. It was not until the seventeenth century that arithmetic became
a regular branch of common education.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN FRANK.--The average price of a boy's bicycle is from twenty-five to fifty dollars.
Very small sizes may be obtained at a lower price.

       *       *       *       *       *

Favors are acknowledged from Lizzie Gieselberg, H. N. Dawson, John R. Blake, C. D. Nicholas,
Carrie Hard, Lilian McDowell, Nellie Rossman, Henry Coleman, Annie M. Douglas, Aggie M. Mason,
Madgie W. B., Sallie R. Ely, Dora Williams, M. W. D., Mary McWhorter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Correct answers to puzzles are received from Olive Russell, "Chiquot," Minnie H. Ingham, Sidney
Abenheim, Emma Shaffer, Edward L. Hunt, Allie Maxwell, George Volckhausen.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUZZLES FROM YOUNG CONTRIBUTORS.

No. 1.

UNITED DIAMONDS.

1. In September. An ancient water vessel. An article of food. A domestic animal. In December.

2. In February. A part of the body. A product. To blend. In August. Centrals of diamonds read
across give a valuable natural product much used in the East Indies.

  HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 2.

ENIGMA.

  My first is in empty, but not in full.
  My second is in rope, but not in pull.
  My third is in light, but not in dark.
  My fourth is in silent, but not in hark.
  My fifth is in drop, but not in fall.
  My sixth is in high, but not in tall.
  My seventh is in stool, but not in chair.
  My eighth is in mend, but not in tear.
  My ninth is in circle, but not in ring.
  My whole is a new and wonderful thing.

  S. T. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 3.

NUMERICAL CHARADES.

1. I am an ancient Greek astronomer composed of 10 letters. My 1, 2, 3 is a part of the body.
My 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 is to dry up. My 9, 10 is a pronoun.

  F. W.

2. I am an ancient Greek comedian composed of 10 letters. My 1, 2, 3, 4 is a poetic narrative.
My 5, 6, 7, 8 is injury. My 9, 10 is a pronoun.

3. I am an ancient Greek historian composed of 9 letters. My 1, 2, 3, 4 is a great warrior.
My 5, 6, 7 is a small spot. My 8, 9 is a pronoun.

  S. C. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 4.

WORD SQUARES.

1. First, froth. Second, one of the United States. Third, designs. Fourth, a vegetable growth.

  FRANK.

2. First, a ship famous in ancient legend. Second, to harvest. Third, festive. Fourth, a precious
stone.

  LUCY.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 44.

No. 1.

Esquimau.

No. 2.

  S T E M
  T O G A
  E G E R
  M A R K

No. 3.

  R  ocheste   R
  H indoo-Coos H
  O     b      I
  N    anki    N
  E     ri     E

Rhone, Rhine.

No. 4.

Chair, hair, air.

No. 5.

      R
    N U T
  R U L E R
    T E N
      R

No. 6.

1. Hyacinth. 2. Androscoggin.

COLUMBIA BICYCLE.

Bicycle riding is the best as well as the healthiest of out-door sports; is easily learned
and never forgotten. Send 3c. stamp for 24-page Illustrated Catalogue, containing Price-Lists
and full information.

THE POPE MFG.

WALTZING FAIRY.

A very pretty toy, and easily made, is this Waltzing Fairy. It may be familiar to some of our
readers, but will be new to a great many more.

Cut a doll out of a good-sized cork--one from a Champagne bottle is best, because broader at
the base; into this base insert a number of stout bristles, as in Fig. 1. If you can not procure
bristles, fine broom-corn will answer the purpose.

Dress this cork body (Fig. 2), taking care to make the dress just so long that it will not
touch the ground. Place this doll on the top or sounding-board of the piano when any one is
playing, and it will dance about in a very graceful manner.

If placed on a smooth tea-tray, and the tray tilted a little at one end, the doll will waltz
across the tray in lady-like style.

CHARADE.

I.

  A gentleman once, with his children and wife,
    Fled away from a town that was burning,
  By command of a friend, who added that life
    Must depend on their never back turning.
  The lady, alas! like her grandmother Eve,
    With a longing for knowledge is curst:
  She turns to behold--it is hard to believe--
    And is pillared straightway in my first.

II.

  An elderly female in gorgeous array
    Promenades in the streets of Verona;
  She is seeking a heart, which has wandered astray,
    To the serious loss of its owner.
  Her heart is all safe; but her sense of her charms
    Is still great--for what woman e'er lost it?--
  So my second precedes her t'allay her alarms,
    And to speak in her stead if accosted.

III.

  The battle's done; the chieftain's in his tent,
    And glories in the victory he has won.
  He dreams of plaudits by his sovereign sent--
    When, lo! appears a curled perfumed one,
  Who claims to be the herald from the King;
    Who prates of war, though ne'er a squadron led;
  And says but for my whole--the villainous thing--
    He too had worn a helmet on his head.

       *       *       *       *       *

=How Salt was formerly Made.=--The art of making salt was known in very early times to the
Gauls and the Germans. The process was very simple, for they did nothing more than throw the
salt-water on burning wood, where it evaporated, and left the salt adhering to the ashes or
charcoal. The ancient Britons probably extracted the salt by the same method, for in the Cheshire
salt-springs pieces of half-burned wood have been frequently dug up. The Romans made salt a
source of revenue six hundred and forty years before the birth of Christ. Part of the pay of
the Roman soldiers was made in salt, which was thus called salarium, whence we derive the word
"salary."

THE MARINER'S PUZZLE.

