But Carew was not destined to set foot again on stolen decks.  A new factor suddenly entered
the struggle.  Martin noticed first, with a great gasp of astonishment; then Little Billy exclaimed,
"The captain! Skipper Dabney!  See!" and excitedly wagged his finger at the figure just emerging
into the sunlight of the poop deck through the cabin hatch.

Captain Dabney was coatless, barelegged, bare-headed, all his white hair blowing.  But he moved
with the swiftness of a young man, and his step was no blind man's step.  As soon as he reached
the deck he spied and snatched up the rifle that was leaning against the skylight--it was Asoki's
rifle, left behind when that worthy went to supervise Carew's departure--and rushed to the rail.

Carew shook his fist and roared a curse at the wild figure that so suddenly appeared at the
poop rail.  Asoki was climbing the poop ladder, come for his rifle or perhaps to take the Captain
from behind. There was a shot forward (it was Hardy, the Australian, with the rifle taken from
the hatch guard, Martin afterwards learned) and Asoki fell backward, out of sight.  Then Captain
Dabney drew down his bead, and his rifle barked--and Carew's cap flew from his head.

Carew did a thing that drew a growl of rage and fear from two of the watchers in the cave.
He ducked, seized Ruth and swung her in front of him, covering his own body with hers.  And
in response to his orders, the sailor at the oars began to furiously pull towards the beach.

Martin never remembered much about that second, headlong passage of the caves, when he and
Little Billy, and the cowering Ichi, retraced their path to the beach.  He was in a frenzy
of rage and fear.  The hunchback was weeping and cursing in the same breath.  Their prisoner
howled hysterically as they kicked him along the ledge by the chasm edge. Martin could never
afterwards figure out why they troubled with Ichi when time was so precious; he had no further
use for the Jap that he knew of.  But they dragged the little wretch all the way to the beach.

Not quite to the beach.  Little Billy, in the lead, guided them into another passage, and instead
of emerging through the Elephant Head, they found themselves in the great open-mouthed chamber
where Billy had hidden before.

The beach lay revealed before them.  Thirty yards distant, at the water's edge, the oarsman
was beaching the dingey.  Carew and Ruth were already halfway up the beach; he was literally
almost dragging the girl over the sand, for she was struggling in his grasp.  He was making
for the Elephant Head.

"Ichi!  Where are you?  Lend a hand here!" Carew shouted.  "You white-livered sneak--send a
man out here if you are afraid!"

"Answer him!" Martin urged Ichi.  "Tell him, 'This way!'"

Ichi stuttered, and hesitated.  He was evidently less anxious to face Carew than was Martin.

Out on board the brig, the battle apparently was over, with victory for Martin's side.  For
Martin saw one of the Cohasset's boats swinging out in the davits, and heard the bosun's stentorian
bellow as he encouraged the launching.  On the poop still stood Captain Dabney, his rifle trained
shorewards.  Even as Martin looked, the rifle cracked, and the sand spurted about the feet
of the Jap sailor by the dingey.

The closeness of the miss seemed to rattle the man, to take his wits and lend wings to his
feet.  He had been landing the gear of the boat; he now dropped his task and sped for the caves.
He would have been quite safe had he fallen in behind his captain and unwilling companion,
for they would not have ventured a shot from the ship with Ruth in line of fire.  But he attempted
to speed by Carew and gain the--as he thought--comparatively safety of the caves.

"Help me here--hey, you--stop!" commanded Carew, as the man dashed past.  "Damn you then--take,
that!"  And he threw down with the pistol he was brandishing, and shot the sailor in the back.
The fellow pitched forward on his knees, and then fell face down on the sand.

In the cavern where the trio lurked, Ichi suddenly yelped as Little Billy pressed the point
of his knife a half inch into the yellow hide. "Call to him," he commanded.

Ichi screamed it.  "This way!  This way, Captain!"

"Where?  Show yourself!  Give me a hand, here!" roared Carew.

Martin thrust Ichi half out of the cave, and, when Carew glimpsed him, jerked him back again.
Swearing vilely, Carew changed his course, and began to draw Ruth towards the open-mouthed cave.

He had his hands full with the girl.  His hand, rather, for he held her with one arm, leaving
his other, his weapon arm, free.  She was struggling furiously to break free from his grasp,
wriggling, kicking, clawing, using all of her vigorous strength against him.  Almost she succeeded.
Then he had recourse to brute tactics to subdue her.

"Curse you, come along!" he exclaimed, and struck her heavy blows in the face with the fist
that held the revolver.  She sagged limply in his arm.

Something seemed to snap in Martin's mind at this sight.  Gone was his caution, forgotten his
plan.  With a hoarse, wordless cry, he cleared the cave entrance with a bound, and threw himself
forward towards his enemy.

Carew was still a score of paces distant from the cave mouth.  But so startled was he by the
sudden appearance of the charging, hostile figure, that Martin had covered half the intervening
distance ere Wild Bob's sagging mouth closed.  But by then Carew had recognized the oncomer,
and realized his danger.  He took snap aim with his weapon, and fired point blank at Martin.

The bullet seared Martin's cheek.  Behind him, Little Billy, just emerging from the cave in
Martin's wake, stopped short in his tracks, clutched at his poor, disfigured breast, and sank
slowly to the ground.

Before Carew could shoot again, Ruth reached up her hands and clawed his face.  Screaming a
curse, Carew threw her from him and staggered back a step.

But Martin was closed with him now.  He had Carew's wrist, wrenching it, and the weapon dropped
to the sand.  He had Carew's throat in his clutch.  He was pressing, pressing, forcing the
man back.

It was the very fury of his headlong, unreasoned assault that gave Martin initial victory.
He was not as large as Carew, nor as strong. But at the moment he had the strength of three
men in his body.  He was berserk.  He had no craft in his fighting; only blind rage and the
strength it gave him.  His hands were at the throat of the most hateful thing in the world--the
man who had harmed loved ones, the man who tried to steal his woman.

Carew's fists battered at Martin's unguarded face.  Martin did not even feel these blows. 
He squeezed and squeezed that cursed neck.  Carew gave ground.  He bent backwards.  His glaring
eyes were popping; his mouth was open.  He was down.

And then something happened to Martin.  He was conscious of pain, of sudden, paralyzing pain
that pervaded his whole body.  The strength left his fingers; he felt his entire body giving
way, slumping weakly.

Now he was on his back, and fingers were at his throat.  Carew's face loomed above him, red,
contorted, the lips curled into a fiendish snarl, an insane murderous light in his eyes.  Martin
was choking; a tremendous weight was on his chest.  In Carew's hand was a knife descending.
Above the ringing in his ears, Martin heard Carew's voice saying, "You shall not have her!"

A sudden roar filled his ears.  The weight on his chest jerked suddenly; the knife fell from
the up-raised hand, the fingers loosened on his throat.  He saw Carew's eyes blinking rapidly,
and an expression of stupid surprise succeeded the triumphant ferocity in the man's face. And
then Carew rolled off him altogether, and lay quiet on the ground by his side.

