When I sallied forth into the town with the suffering sinners, I found the sun fast declining
in the west, and, although my fever had left me, it was altogether too late to depart from
the village on our journey. I mentioned to Ibrahim a report on the coast that his town was
bordered by a sacred spring known as the DEVIL'S FOUNTAIN, and inquired whether daylight enough
still remained to allow us a visit. The chief assented; and as in his generous fit last night,
he had offered me a horse, I now claimed the gift, and quickly mounted in search of the aqueous
demon.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Ah! what joy, after so many years, to be once more in the saddle in an open country, with a
steed of fire and spirit bounding beneath my exhilarated frame! It was long before I could
consent to obey the summons of our guide to follow him on the path. When the gates of Kya were
behind, and the wider roads opened invitingly before me, I could not help giving rein to the
mettlesome beast, as he dashed across the plain beneath the arching branches of magnificent
cotton-woods. The solitude and the motion were both delightful. Never, since I last galloped
from the paseo to Atares, and from Atares to El Principe, overlooking the beautiful bay of
Havana, and the distant outline of her purple sea, had I felt so gloriously the rush of joyous
blood that careered through my veins like electric fire. Indeed, I know not how long I would
have traversed the woods had not the path suddenly ended at a town, where my Arabian turned
of his own accord, and dashed back along the road till I met my wondering companions.

Having sobered both our bloods, I felt rather better prepared for a visit to the Satanic personage
who was the object of our excursion. About two miles from Kya, we struck the foot of a steep
hill, some three hundred feet in height, over whose shoulder we reached a deep and tangled
dell, watered by a slender stream which was hemmed in by a profusion of shrubbery. Crossing
the brook, we ascended the opposite declivity for a short distance till we approached a shelving
precipice of rock, along whose slippery side the ledgelike path continued. I passed it at a
bound, and instantly stood within the arched aperture of a deep cavern, whence a hot and sulphurous
stream trickled slowly towards the ravine. This was the fountain, and the demon who presided
over its source dwelt within the cave.

Whilst I was examining the rocks to ascertain their quality, the guide apprised me that the
impish proprietor of these waters was gifted with a "multitude of tongues," and, in all probability,
would reply to me in my own, if I thought fit to address him. "Indeed," said the savage, "he
will answer you word for word and that, too, almost before you can shape your thought in language.
Let us see if he is at home?"

I called, in a loud voice, "KYA!" but as no reply followed, I perceived at once the wit of
the imposture, and without waiting for him to place me, took my own position at a spot inside
the cavern, where I knew the echoes would be redoubled. "Now," said I, "I know the devil is
at home, as well as you do;"--and, telling my people to listen, I bellowed, with all my might--"caffra
fure!" "infernal black one!"--till the resounding rocks roared again with demoniac responses.
In a moment the cavern was clear of every African; so that I amused myself letting off shrieks,
howls, squeals, and pistols, until the affrighted natives peeped into the mouth of the cave,
thinking the devil in reality had come for me in a double-breasted garment of thunder and lightning.
I came forth, however, with a whole skin and so hearty a laugh, that the Africans seized my
hands in token of congratulation, and looked at me with wonderment, as something greater than
the devil himself. Without waiting for a commentary, I leaped on my Arab and darted down the hill.

"And so," said I, when I got back to Kya, "dost thou in truth believe, beloved Ibrahim, that
the devil dwells in those rocks of the sulphur stream?"

"Why not, brother Theodore? Isn't the water poison? If you drink, will it not physic you? When
animals lick it in the dry season, do they not die on the margin by scores? Now, a 'book-man'
like you, my brother, knows well enough that water alone can't kill; so that whenever it does,
the devil must be in it; and, moreover, is it not he who speaks in the cavern?"

"Good," replied I; "but, pry'thee, dear Ibrahim, read me this riddle: if the devil gets into
water and kills, why don't he kill when he gets into 'bitters?'"

"Ah!" said the Ali--"you white men are infidels and scoffers!" as he laughed like a rollicking
trooper, and led me, with his arm round my neck, into supper. "And yet, Don Téodore, don't
forget the portable imp that you carry in that Yankee flask in your pocket!"

We did not dispute the matter further. I had been long enough in Africa to find out that white
men made themselves odious to the natives and created bitter enemies, by despising or ridiculing
their errors; and as I was not abroad on a mission of civilization, I left matters just as
I found them. When I was among the Mahometans, I was an excellent Mussulman, while, among the
heathen, I affected considerable respect for their jujus, gree-grees, fetiches, snakes, iguanas,
alligators, and wooden images.

Ere we set forth next morning, my noble host caused a generous meal to be dispensed among the
caravan. The breakfast consisted of boiled rice dried in the sun, and then boiled again with
milk or water after being pounded finely in a mortar. This nutritive dish was liberally served;
and, as a new Mongo, I was tendered an especial platter, flanked by copious bowls of cream
and honey.

It is true Mandingo etiquette, at the departure of an honored friend, for the Lord of the Town
to escort him on his way to the first brook, drink of the water with the wayfarer, toast a
prompt return, invoke Allah for a prosperous voyage, shake bands, and snap fingers, in token
of friendly adieu. The host who tarries then takes post in the path, and, fixing his eyes on
the departing guest, never stirs till the traveller is lost in the folds of the forest, or
sinks behind the distant horizon.

Such was the conduct of my friend Ibrahim on this occasion; nor was it all. It is a singular
habit of these benighted people, to keep their word whenever they make a promise! I dare say
it is one of the marks of their faint civilization; yet I am forced to record it as a striking
fact. When I sallied forth from the gate of the town, I noticed a slave holding the horse I
rode the day before to the Devil's fountain, ready caparisoned and groomed as for a journey.
Being accompanied by Ibrahim on foot, I supposed the animal was designed for his return after
our complimentary adieus. But when we had passed at least a mile beyond the parting brook,
I again encountered the beast, whose leader approached Ali-Ninpha, announcing the horse as
a gift from his master to help me on my way. Ere I backed the blooded animal, an order was
directed to my clerk at Kambia for two muskets, two kegs of powder, two pieces of blue cotton,
and one hundred pounds of tobacco. I advised my official, moreover, to inclose in the core
of the tobacco the stoutest flask he could find of our fourth proof "bitters!"

CHAPTER XIX.

The day was cloudy, but our trotting caravan did not exceed twenty miles in travel. In Africa
things are done leisurely, for neither life, speculation, nor ambition is so exciting or exacting
as to make any one in a hurry. I do not recollect to have ever seen an individual in haste
while I dwelt in the torrid clime. The shortest existence is long enough, when it is made up
of sleep, slave-trade, and mastication.

       *       *       *       *       *

At sunset no town was in sight; so it was resolved to bivouac in the forest on the margin of
a beautiful brook, where rice, tea, and beef, were speedily boiled and smoking on the mats.
When I was about to stretch my weary limbs for the night on the ground, my boy gave me another
instance of Ibrahim's true and heedful hospitality, by producing a grass hammock he had secretly
ordered to be packed among my baggage. With a hammock and a horse I was on velvet in the forest!

Delicious sleep curtained my swinging couch between two splendid cotton-woods until midnight,
when the arm of our Fullah chief was suddenly laid on my shoulder with a whispered call to
prepare for defence or flight. As I leaped to the ground the caravan was already afoot, though
the profoundest silence prevailed throughout the wary crowd. The watch announced strangers
in our neighborhood, and two guides had been despatched immediately to reconnoitre the forest.
This was all the information they could give me.

The native party was fully prepared and alert with spears, lances, bows and arrows. I commanded
my own men to re-prime their muskets, pistols, and rifles; so that, when the guides returned
with a report that the intruders were supposed to form a party of fugitive slaves, we were
ready for our customers.

Their capture was promptly determined. Some proposed we should delay till daylight; but Ali-Ninpha,
who was a sagacious old fighter, thought it best to complete the enterprise by night, especially
as the savages kept up a smouldering fire in the midst of their sleeping group, which would
serve to guide us.

Our little band was immediately divided into two squads, one under the lead of the Fullah,
and the other commanded by Ali-Ninpha. The Fullah was directed to make a circuit until he got
in the rear of the slaves, while Ali-Ninpha, at a concerted signal, began to advance towards
them from our camp. Half an hour probably elapsed before a faint call, like the cry of a child,
was heard in the distant forest, upon which the squad of my landlord fell on all-fours, and
crawled cautiously, like cats, through the short grass and brushwood, in the direction of the
sound. The sleepers were quickly surrounded. The Mandingo gave the signal as soon as the ends
of the two parties met and completed the circle; and, in an instant, every one of the runaways,
except two, was in the grasp of a warrior, with a cord around his throat. Fourteen captives
were brought into camp. The eldest of the party alleged that they belonged to the chief of
Tamisso, a town on our path to Timbo, and were bound to the coast for sale. On their way to
the foreign factories, which they were exceedingly anxious to reach, their owner died, so that
they came under the control of his brother, who threatened to change their destination, and
sell them in the interior. In consequence of this they fled; and, as their master would surely
slay them if restored to Tamisso, they besought us with tears not to take them thither.

Another council was called, for we were touched by the earnest manner of the negroes. Ali-Ninpha
and the Fullah were of opinion that the spoil was fairly ours, and should be divided in proportion
to the men in both parties. Yet, as our road passed by the objectionable town, it was impossible
to carry the slaves along, either in justice to ourselves or them. In this strait, which puzzled
the Africans sorely, I came to their relief, by suggesting their dispatch to my factory with
orders for the payment of their value in merchandise.

The proposal was quickly assented to as the most feasible, and our fourteen captives were at
once divided into two gangs, of seven each. Hoops of bamboo were soon clasped round their waists,
while their hands were tied by stout ropes to the hoops. A long tether was then passed with
a slip-knot through each rattan belt, so that the slaves were firmly secured to each other,
while a small coil was employed to link them more securely in a band by their necks. These
extreme precautions were needed, because we dared not diminish our party to guard the gang.
Indeed, Ali-Ninpha was only allowed the two interpreters and four of my armed people as his
escort to Kya, where, it was agreed, he should deliver the captives to Ibrahim, to be forwarded
to my factory, while he hastened to rejoin us at the river Sanghu, where we designed tarrying.

For three days we journeyed through the forest, passing occasionally along the beds of dried-up
streams and across lonely tracts of wood which seemed never to have been penetrated, save by
the solitary path we were treading. As we were anxious to be speedily reunited with our companions,
our steps were not hastened; so that, at the end of the third day, we had not advanced more
than thirty miles from the scene of capture, when we reached a small Mandingo village, recently
built by an upstart trader, who, with the common envy and pride of his tribe, gave our Fullah
caravan a frigid reception. A single hut was assigned to the chief and myself for a dwelling,
and the rage of the Mahometan may readily be estimated by an insult that would doom him to
sleep beneath the same roof with a Christian!

I endeavored to avert an outburst by apprising the Mandingo that I was a bosom friend of Ali-Ninpha,
his countryman and superior, and begged that he would suffer the "head-man" of our caravan
to dwell in a house alone. But the impudent parvenu sneered at my advice; "he knew no such
person as Ali-Ninpha, and cared not a snap of his finger for a Fullah chief, or a beggarly
white man!"

My body-servant was standing by when this tart reply fell from the Mandingo's lips, and, before
I could stop the impetuous youth, he answered the trader with as gross an insult as an African
can utter. To this the Mandingo replied by a blow over the boy's shoulders with the flat of
a cutlass; and, in a twinkling, there was a general shout for "rescue" from all my party who
happened to witness the scene. Fullahs, Mandingoes, and Soosoos dashed to the spot, with spears,
guns, and arrows. The Fullah chief seized my double-barrelled gun and followed the crowd; and
when he reached the spot, seeing the trader still waving his cutlass in a menacing manner,
he pulled both triggers at the inhospitable savage. Fortunately, however, it was always my
custom on arriving in friendly towns, to remove the copper caps from my weapons, so that, when
the hammers fell, the gun was silent. Before the Fullah could club the instrument and prostrate
the insulter, I rushed between them to prevent murder. This I was happy enough to succeed in;
but I could not deter the rival tribe from binding the brute, hand and foot, to a post in the
centre of his town, while the majority of our caravan cleared the settlement at once of its
fifty or sixty inhabitants.

Of course, we appropriated the dwellings as we pleased, and supplied ourselves with provisions.
Moreover, it was thought preferable to wait in this village for Ali-Ninpha, than to proceed
onwards towards the borders of the Sanghu. When he arrived, on the second day after the sad
occurrence, he did not hesitate to exercise the prerogative of judgment and condemnation always
claimed by superior chiefs over inferiors, whenever they consider themselves slighted or wronged.
The process in this case was calmly and humanely formed. A regular trial was allowed the culprit.
He was arraigned on three charges:--1. Want of hospitality; 2. Cursing and maltreating a Fullah
chief and a white Mongo; 3. Disrespect to the name and authority of his countryman and superior,
Ali-Ninpha. On all these articles the prisoner was found guilty; but, as there were neither
slaves nor personal property by which the ruffian could be mulcted for his crimes, the tribunal
adjudged him to be scourged with fifty lashes, and to have his "town-fence or stockade destroyed,
never to be rebuilt." The blows were inflicted for the abuse, but the perpetual demolition
of his defensive barrier was in punishment for refused hospitality. Such is the summary process
by which social virtues are inculcated and enforced among these interior tribes of Africa!

       *       *       *       *       *

It required three days for our refreshed caravan to reach the dry and precipitous bed of the
Sanghu, which I found impossible to pass with my horse, in consequence of jagged rocks and
immense boulders that covered its channel. But the men were resolved that my convenient animal
should not be left behind. Accordingly, all hands went to work with alacrity on the trees,
and in a day, they bridged the ravine with logs bound together by ropes made from twisted bark.
Across this frail and swaying fabric I urged the horse with difficulty; but hardly had he reached
the opposite bank, and recovered from his nervous tremor, when I was surprised by an evident
anxiety in the beast to return to his swinging pathway. The guides declared it to be an instinctive
warning of danger from wild beasts with which the region is filled; and, even while we spoke,
two of the scouts who were in advance selecting ground for our camp, returned with the carcasses
of a deer and leopard. Though meat had not passed our lips for five days, we were in no danger
of starvation; the villages teemed with fruits and vegetables. Pine-apples, bananas, and a
pulpy globe resembling the peach in form and flavor, quenched our thirst and satisfied our hunger.

Besides these, our greedy natives foraged in the wilderness for nourishment unknown, or at
least unused, by civilized folks. They found comfort in barks of various trees, as well as
in buds, berries, and roots, some of which they devoured raw, while others were either boiled
or made into palatable decoctions with water that gurgled from every hill. The broad valleys
and open country supplied animal and vegetable "delicacies" which a white man would pass unnoticed.
Many a time, when I was as hungry as a wolf, I found my vagabonds in a nook of the woods, luxuriating
over a mess with the unctuous lips of aldermen; but when I came to analyze the stew, I generally
found it to consist of a "witch's cauldron," copiously filled with snails, lizards, iguanas,
frogs and alligators!

CHAPTER XX.

A journey to the interior of Africa would be a rural jaunt, were it not so often endangered
by the perils of war. The African may fairly be characterized as a shepherd, whose pastoral
life is varied by a little agriculture, and the conflicts into which he is seduced, either
by family quarrels, or the natural passions of his blood. His country, though uncivilized,
is not so absolutely wild as is generally supposed. The gradual extension of Mahometanism throughout
the interior is slowly but evidently modifying the Negro.

But in all the changes that may come over the spirit of man in Africa, her magnificent external
nature will for ever remain the game. A little labor teems with vast returns. The climate exacts
nothing but shade from the sun and shelter from the storm. Its oppressive heat forbids a toilsome
industry, and almost enforces indolence as a law. With every want supplied, without the allurements
of social rivalry, without the temptations of national ambition or personal pride, what has
the African to do in his forest of palm and cocoa,--his grove of orange, pomegranate and fig,--on
his mat of comfortable repose, where the fruit stoops to his lips without a struggle for the
prize,--save to brood over, or gratify, the electric passions with which his soul seems charged
to bursting!

It is an interesting task to travel through a continent filled with such people, whose minds
are just beginning, here and there, to emerge from the vilest heathenism, and to glimmer with
a faith that bears wrapped in its unfolded leaves, the seeds of a modified civilization.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I travelled in the "dry season," I did not encounter many of the discomforts that beset
the African wayfarer in periods of rain and tempest. I was not obliged to flounder through
lagoons, or swim against the current of perilous rivers. We met their traces almost every day;
and, in many places, the soil was worn into parched ravines or the tracks of dried-up torrents.
Whatever affliction I experienced arose from the wasting depression of heat. We did not suffer
from lack of water or food, for the caravan of the ALI-MAMI commanded implicit obedience throughout
our journey.

In the six hundred miles I traversed, whilst absent from the coast, my memory, after twenty-six
years, leads me, from beginning to end, through an almost continuous forest-path. We struck
a trail when we started, and we left it when we came home. It was rare, indeed, to encounter
a cross road, except when it led to neighboring villages, water, or cultivated fields. So dense
was the forest foliage, that we often walked for hours in shade without a glimpse of the sun.
The emerald light that penetrated the wood, bathed every thing it touched with mellow refreshment.
But we were repaid for this partial bliss by intense suffering when we came forth from the
sanctuary into the bare valleys, the arid barrancas, and marshy savannas of an open region.
There, the red eye of the African sun glared with merciless fervor. Every thing reflected its
rays. They struck us like lances from above, from below, from the sides, from the rocks, from
the fields, from the stunted herbage, from the bushes. All was glare! Our eyes seemed to simmer
in their sockets. Whenever the path followed the channel of a brook, whose dried torrents left
bare the scorched and broken rocks, our feet fled from the ravine as from heated iron. Frequently
we entered extensive prairies, covered with blades of sword-grass, tall as our heads, whose
jagged edges tore us like saws, though we protected our faces with masks of wattled willows.
And yet, after all these discomforts, how often are my dreams haunted by charming pictures
of natural scenery that have fastened themselves for ever in my memory!

As the traveller along the coast turns the prow of his canoe through the surf, and crosses
the angry bar that guards the mouth of an African river, he suddenly finds himself moving calmly
onward between sedgy shores, buried in mangroves. Presently, the scene expands in the unruffled
mirror of a deep, majestic stream. Its lofty banks are covered by innumerable varieties of
the tallest forest trees, from whoso summits a trailing network of vines and flowers floats
down and sweeps the passing current. A stranger who beholds this scenery for the first time
is struck by the immense size, the prolific abundance, and gorgeous verdure of every thing.
Leaves, large enough for garments, lie piled and motionless in the lazy air: The bamboo and
cane shake their slender spears and pennant leaves as the stream ripples among their roots.
Beneath the massive trunks of forest trees, the country opens; and, in vistas through the wood,
the traveller sees innumerable fields lying fallow in grass, or waving with harvests of rice
and cassava, broken by golden clusters of Indian corn. Anon, groups of oranges, lemons, coffee-trees,
plantains and bananas, are crossed by the tall stems of cocoas, and arched by the broad and
drooping coronals of royal palm. Beyond this, capping the summit of a hill, may be seen the
conical huts of natives, bordered by fresh pastures dotted with flocks of sheep and goats,
or covered by numbers of the sleekest cattle. As you leave the coast, and shoot round the river-curves
of this fragrant wilderness teeming with flowers, vocal with birds, and gay with their radiant
plumage, you plunge into the interior, where the rising country slowly expands into hills and
mountains.

The forest is varied. Sometimes it is a matted pile of tree vine, and bramble, obscuring every
thing, and impervious save with knife and hatchet. At others, it is a Gothic temple. The sward
spreads openly for miles on every side, while, from its even surface, the trunks of straight
and massive trees rise to a prodigious height, clear from every obstruction, till their gigantic
limbs, like the capitals of columns, mingle their foliage in a roof of perpetual verdure.

At length the hills are reached, and the lowland heat is tempered by mountain freshness. The
scene that may be beheld from almost any elevation, is always beautiful, and sometimes grand.
Forest, of course, prevails; yet, with a glass, and often by the unaided eye, gentle hills,
swelling from the wooded landscape, may be seen covered with native huts, whose neighborhood
is checkered with patches of sward and cultivation, and inclosed by massive belts of primeval
wildness. Such is commonly the westward view; but north and east, as far as vision extends,
noble outlines of hill and mountain may be traced against the sky, lapping each other with
their mighty folds, until they fade away in the azure horizon.

When a view like this is beheld at morning, in the neighborhood of rivers, a dense mist will
be observed lying beneath the spectator in a solid stratum, refracting the light now breaking
from the east. Here and there, in this lake of vapor, the tops of hills peer up like green
islands in a golden sea. But, ere you have time to let fancy run riot, the "cloud compelling"
orb lifts its disc over the mountains, and the fogs of the valley, like ghosts at cock-crow,
flit from the dells they have haunted since nightfall. Presently, the sun is out in his terrible
splendor. Africa unveils to her master, and the blue sky and green forest blaze and quiver
with his beams.

CHAPTER XXI.

I felt so much the lack of scenery in my narrative, that I thought it well to group in a few
pages the African pictures I have given in the last chapter. My story had too much of the bareness
of the Greek stage, and I was conscious that landscape, as well as action, was required to
mellow the subject and relieve it from tedium. After our dash through the wilderness, let us
return to the slow toil of the caravan.

Four days brought us to Tamisso from our last halt. We camped on the copious brook that ran
near the town-walls, and while Ali-Ninpha thought proper to compliment the chief, Mohamedoo,
by a formal announcement of our arrival, the caravan made ready for reception by copious, but
needed, ablutions of flesh and raiment. The women, especially, were careful in adorning and
heightening their charms. Wool was combed to its utmost rigidity; skins were greased till they
shone like polished ebony; ankles and arms were restrung with beads; and loins were girded
with snowy waist-cloths. Ali-Ninpha knew the pride of his old Mandingo companions, and was
satisfied that Mohamedoo would have been mortified had we surprised him within the precincts
of his court, squatted, perhaps, on a dirty mat with a female scratching his head! Ali-Ninpha
was a prudent gentleman, and knew the difference between the private and public lives of his
illustrious countrymen!

In the afternoon our interpreters returned to camp with Mohamedoo's son, accompanied by a dozen
women carrying platters of boiled rice, calabashes filled with delicate sauce, and abundance
of ture, or vegetable butter. A beautiful horse was also despatched for my triumphal entry
into town.

The food was swallowed with an appetite corresponding to our recent penitential fare; the tents
were struck; and the caravan was forthwith advanced towards Tamisso. All the noise we could
conveniently make, by way of music, was, of course, duly attempted. Interpreters and guides
went ahead, discharging guns. Half a dozen tom-toms were struck with uncommon rapidity and
vigor, while the unctuous women set up a chorus of melody that would not have disgraced a band
of "Ethiopian Minstrels."

Half-way to the town our turbulent mob was met by a troop of musicians sent out by the chief
to greet us with song and harp. I was quickly surrounded by the singers, who chanted the most
fulsome praise of the opulent Mongo, while a court-fool or buffoon insisted on leading my horse,
and occasionally wiping my face with his filthy handkerchief!

Presently we reached the gates, thronged by pressing crowds of curious burghers. Men, women,
and children, had all come abroad to see the immense Furtoo, or white man, and appeared as
much charmed by the spectacle as if I had been a banished patriot. I was forced to dismount
at the low wicket, but here the empressement of my inquisitive hosts became so great, that
the "nation's guest" was forced to pause until some amiable bailiffs modified the amazement
of their fellow-citizens by staves and whips.

I lost no time in the lull, while relieved from the mob, to pass onward to "the palace" of
Mohamedoo, which, like all royal residences in Africa, consisted of a mud-walled quadrangular
inclosure, with a small gate, a large court, and a quantity of adobe huts, surrounded by shady
verandahs. The furniture, mats, and couches were of cane, while wooden platters, brass kettles,
and common wash-basins, were spread out in every direction for show and service.

On a coach, covered with several splendid leopard skins, reclined Mohamedoo, awaiting my arrival
with as much stateliness as if he had been a scion of civilized royalty. The chief was a man
of sixty at least. His corpulent body was covered with short Turkish trousers, and a large
Mandingo shirt profusely embroidered with red and yellow worsted. His bald or shaved head was
concealed by a light turban, while a long white beard stood out in relief against his tawny
skin, and hung down upon his breast. Ali-Ninpha presented me formally to this personage, who
got up, shook hands, "snapped fingers," and welcomed me thrice. My Fullah chief and Mandingo
companion then proceeded to "make their dantica," or declare the purpose of their visit; but
when they announced that I was the guest of the Fullah Ali-Mami, and, accordingly, was entitled
to free passage every where without expense, I saw that the countenance of the veteran instantly
fell, and that his welcome was dashed by the loss of a heavy duty which he designed exacting
for my transit.

The sharp eye of Ali-Ninpha was not slow in detecting Mohamedoo's displeasure; and, as I had
previously prepared him in private, he took an early opportunity to whisper in the old man's
ear, that Don Téodore knew he was compelled to journey through Tamisso, and, of course, had
not come empty-handed. My object, he said, in visiting this region and the territory of the
Fullah king, was not idle curiosity alone; but that I was prompted by a desire for liberal
trade, and especially for the purchase of slaves to load the numerous vessels I had lingering
on the coast, with immense cargoes of cloth, muskets, and powder.

The clouds were dispersed as soon as a hint was thrown out about traffic. The old sinner nodded
like a mandarin who knew what he was about, and, rising as soon as the adroit whisperer had
finished, took me by the hand, and in a loud voice, presented me to the people as his "beloved
son!" Besides this, the best house within the royal inclosure was fitted with fresh comforts
for my lodging. When the Fullah chief withdrew from the audience, Ali-Ninpha brought in the
mistress of Mohamedoo's harem, who acted as his confidential clerk, and we speedily handed
over the six pieces of cotton and an abundant supply of tobacco with which I designed to propitiate
her lord and master.

Tired of the dust, crowd, heat, confinement and curiosity of an African town, I was glad to
gulp down my supper of broiled chickens and milk, preparatory to a sleepy attack on my couch
of rushes spread with mats and skins. Yet, before retiring for the night, I thought it well
to refresh my jaded frame by a bath, which the prince had ordered to be prepared in a small
court behind my chamber. But I grieve to say, that my modesty was put to a sore trial, when
I began to unrobe. Locks and latches are unknown in this free-and-easy region. It had been
noised abroad among the dames of the harem, that the Furtoo would probably perform his ablutions
before he slept; so that, when I entered the yard, my tub was surrounded by as many inquisitive
eyes as the dinner table of Louis the Fourteenth, when sovereigns dined in public. As I could
not speak their language, I made all the pantomimic signs of graceful supplication that commonly
soften the hearts of the sex on the stage, hoping, by dumb-show, to secure my privacy. But
gestures and grimace were unavailing. I then made hold to take off my shirt, leaving my nether
garments untouched. Hitherto, the dames had seen only my bronzed face and hands, but when the
snowy pallor of my breast and back was unveiled, many of them fled incontinently, shouting
to their friends to "come and see the peeled Furtoo!" An ancient crone, the eldest of the crew,
ran her hand roughly across the fairest portion of my bosom, and looking at her fingers with
disgust, as if I reeked with leprosy, wiped them on the wall. As displeasure seemed to predominate
over admiration, I hoped this experiment would have satisfied the inquest, but, as black curiosity
exceeds all others, the wenches continued to linger, chatter, grin and feel, until I was forced
to disappoint their anxiety for further disclosures, by an abrupt "good night."

We tarried in Tamisso three days to recruit, during which I was liberally entertained on the
prince's hospitable mat, where African stews of relishing flavor, and tender fowls smothered
in snowy rice, regaled me at least twice in every twenty-four hours. Mohamedoo fed me with
an European silver spoon, which, he said, came from among the effects of a traveller who, many
years before, died far in the interior. In all his life, he had seen but four of our race within
the walls of Tamisso. Their names escaped his memory; but the last, he declared, was a poor
and clever youth, probably from Senegal, who followed a powerful caravan, and "read the Koran
like a mufti."

Tamisso was entirely surrounded by a tall double fence of pointed posts. The space betwixt
the inclosures, which were about seven feet apart, was thickly planted with smaller spear-headed
staves, hardened by fire. If the first fence was leaped by assailants, they met a cruel reception
from those impaling sentinels. Three gates afforded admission to different sections of the
town, but the passage through them consisted of zig-zags, with loopholes cut judiciously in
the angles, so as to command every point of access to the narrow streets of the suburbs.

The parting between Mohamedoo and myself was friendly in the extreme. Provisions for four days
were distributed by the prince to the caravan, and he promised that my return should be welcomed
by an abundant supply of slaves.

CHAPTER XXII.

As our caravan approached the Fullah country, and got into the higher lands, where the air
was invigorating, I found its pace improved so much that we often exceeded twenty miles in
our daily journey. The next important place we were to approach was Jallica. For three days,
our path coasted the southern edge of a mountain range, whose declivities and valleys were
filled with rivers, brooks, and streamlets, affording abundant irrigation to fields teeming
with vegetable wealth. The population was dense. Frequent caravans, with cattle and slaves,
passed us on their way to various marts. Our supplies of food were plentiful. A leaf of tobacco
purchased a fowl; a charge of powder obtained a basin of milk, or a dozen of eggs; and a large
sheep cost only six cents, or a quart of salt.

Five days after quitting Tamisso, our approach to Jallica was announced; and here, as at our
last resting-place, it was deemed proper to halt half a day for notice and ablution before
entering a city, whose chief--SUPHIANA--was a kinsman of Ali-Ninpha.

The distance from our encampment to the town was about three miles; but an hour had hardly
elapsed after our arrival, when the deep boom of the war-drum gave token that our message had
been received with welcome. I was prepared, in some measure, for a display of no ordinary character
at Jallica, because my Mandingo friend, Ali-Ninpha, inhabited the town in his youth, and had
occupied a position which gave importance to his name throughout Soolimana. The worthy fellow
had been absent many years from Jallica, and wept like a child when he heard the sound of the
war-drum. Its discordant beat had the same effect on the savage that the sound of their village
bells has on the spirit of returning wanderers in civilized lands. When the rattle of the drum
was over, he told me that for five years he controlled that very instrument in Jallica, during
which it had never sounded a retreat or betokened disaster. In peace it was never touched,
save for public rejoicing; and the authorities allowed it to be beaten now only because an
old commander of the tribe was to be received with the honors due to his rank and service.
Whilst we were still conversing, Suphiana's lance-bearer made his appearance, and, with a profound
salaam, announced that the "gates of Jallica were open to the Mandingo and his companions."

No fanda or refreshments were sent with the welcome; but when the caravan got within fifty
yards of the walls, a band of shouting warriors marched forth, and lifting Ali-Ninpha on their
shoulders, bore him through the gates, singing war-songs, accompanied by all sorts of music
and hubbub.

I had purposely lingered with my men in the rear of the great body of Africans, so that nearly
the whole caravan passed the portal before my complexion--though deeply bronzed by exposure--made
me known to the crowd as a white man.

Then, instantly, the air rang with the sound of--"Furtoo! Furtoo! Furtoo!"--and the gate was
slammed in our faces, leaving us completely excluded from guide and companions. But, in the
midst of his exultant reception, Ali-Ninpha did not forget the Mongo of Kambia. Hardly had
he attained the end of the street, when he heard the cry of exclusion, and observed the closing
portal. By this time, my Fullah friend had wrought himself into an examplary fit of Oriental
rage with the inhospitable Mandingoes, so that I doubt very much whether he would not have
knocked the dust from his sandals on the gate of Jallica, had not Ali-Ninpha rushed through
the wicket, and commanding the portal to be reopened, apologized contritely to the Mahometan
and myself.

This unfortunate mistake, or accident, not only caused considerable delay, but rather dampened
the delight of our party as it defiled in the spacious square of Jallica, and entered the open
shed which was called a "palaver-house." Its vast area was densely packed with a fragrant crowd
of old and young, armed with muskets or spears. All wore knives or cutlasses, slung by a belt
high up on their necks; while, in their midst surrounded by a court of veterans, stood Suphiana,
the prince, waiting our arrival.

