It felt cold and desolate, and as I sat down by the toilet table, such sad eyes looked into
mine from the depths of the mirror, that a curious self-pitying feeling made me prop my chin
on my hands and exchange looks of silent sympathy with my image.

My want of beauty never troubled me; it has always been my private conviction that we ought
to be thankful if we are tolerably pleasant in other people's eyes; beauty is too rare a gift
to be often reproduced. If people thought me nice-looking I was more than content; perhaps
it was surprising that, with such good-looking parents, I was just ordinary and nothing else,
"But never mind, Merle, you have a good figure and talking eyes," as Aunt Agatha once said
to me. "I was much plainer at your age, my dear, but my plainness never prevented me from having
a happy life and a good husband."

"Well, perhaps I should like a happy life, too, but as for the husband--never dream of that,
my good girl; remember your miserable deficiency in this enlightened age. No man in his senses
would condone that; put such thoughts resolutely away and think only of your work in life.
Laborare est orare."

(To be continued.)

THE CONTENTS OF MY WORK-BOX.

HOW BUTTONS ARE MADE.

It is scarcely possible to determine when buttons, which are both useful and ornamental, were
first made. In the paintings of the fourteenth century they frequently appear on the garments
of both sexes, but in many instances they are drawn without button-holes, and are placed in
such situations as to suggest that at that time they were used more for ornament than usefulness.

It was towards the close of the sixteenth century that button-making was first considered a
business, and that the manufacturers formed a considerable body.

Button-making was originally a very tedious and expensive process. The button consisted of
one solid piece of metal; the ornaments on the face of it were the work of an engraver. To
obviate the expense connected with such a method of production, the press, stamp, and engine
for turning the moulds were introduced. This improvement led the way for other improvements,
both with regard to the materials from which buttons were afterwards made and also the process
of manufacture. The plain gilt button, which was extensively used in the early part of the
present century, was made from an alloy called plating metal, which contained a larger proportion
of copper and less zinc than ordinary brass. The devices on the outer surface were produced
by stamping the previously cut out blanks or metal discs with steel dies, after which the necks
were soldered in. At the present time every possible kind of metal, from iron to gold, whether
pure or mixed; every conceivable woven fabric, from canvas to the finest satin and velvet;
every natural production capable of being turned out or pressed, as wood, horn, hoof, pearl,
bone, ivory, jet, ivory nuts; every manufactured material of which the same may be said, as
caoutchouc, leather, papier maché, glass, porcelain, etc., buttons are made in a great variety
of shape; but at the present time they may be classed under four heads: buttons with shanks,
buttons without shanks, buttons on rings or wire moulds, and buttons covered with cloth or
some other material.

In the process of metal button-making by means of fly presses and punches, circular discs,
called blanks, are cut out of sheets of metal. This work is usually done by females, who, while
seated at a bench, manage to cut out as many as thirty blanks per minute, or twelve gross in
an hour. On leaving the press the edges of the blanks are very sharp. When they have been smoothed
and rounded, the surfaces are planished on the face by being placed separately in a die, under
a small stamp, and causing them to receive a sharp blow from a polished steel hammer. The next
process is that of shanking, or attaching small metal loops, by which they are fastened to
garments. The shank manufacture is a distinct branch of the trade in Birmingham, although at
times carried on in the same factory.

The shanks are made by a machine, in which a coil of wire is gradually advanced towards a pair
of shears, which cut off short pieces. A metal finger then presses against the middle of each
piece, first bending it and then pressing it into a vice, where it is compressed so as to form
a loop; a hammer then strikes the two ends, spreading them into a flat surface, and the shank
is pushed out of the machine ready for use. The shanks in some instances are attached to the
blanks by women with iron wire, solder, and resin, after which they are placed in an oven,
and when firmly united are removed and form plain buttons. In the majority of cases, however,
soldering is dispensed with, the shanks being made secure in the press.

If the button is to be finished without a shank, it is passed on from the press, which it leaves
as a blank, to another where the holes are pierced, and then to a third where the roughness
is removed from the edges of the holes.

The commonest metal buttons which I have seen in process of making were cut out of scraps of
tin, similar to what may be seen on the refuse heap of any shop where tin goods are made. The
hand presses worked by women cut out the blanks, made a simple impression on the outside, and
turned up the edges all round at the same time. The blanks were then passed on to another press,
where pieces of cardboard were inserted, and the edges turned over to keep them firm. The holes
were next pierced, and a finish given by a blow from a stamp.

I felt deeply interested in seeing all kinds of buttons in process of being made, some for
India, others for Chili, and our own army, but the prettiest and most interesting to witness
while passing through the presses, stamps, and hands of the workers were some which were being
made for Malta. In passing through the first press the blank was embossed and cut out. By another
press the edge was scalloped, and by a third press the open work was effected. The next process
was that of so pressing each disc to such an extent that the scalloped edges of two might meet,
and thus form a round button of pretty design when united, and a shank fastened in the centre
of one of the blanks.

Military buttons, like many others, are made of two discs of metal, the impression on the outer
ones being produced by a sharp blow in a stamp, the under ones having two holes pierced in
them for the shanks, which are put through and bent flat on the inside. They are next passed
through another press which firmly fastens the two discs together, and holds the shank so securely
as to obviate the necessity of having recourse to soldering.

Covered buttons are made in an immense variety of textiles. It is impossible in the space allowed
for this paper to enumerate them, but I may add that their ingenious construction, their good
wearing qualities, the clever mechanism of the tools by which the various discs of cloth, metal,
millboard, etc., are cut out, and the methods of uniting them so as to form a complete button,
are marvels of skill and industry.

The earliest covered buttons were made so recently as the year 1802, in Birmingham, by Mr.
B. Sanders. Those buttons had metal shanks, but by the ingenuity of Mr. Sanders, jun., his
father's invention was completed by tufts of canvas, through which the buttons could be attached
to garments, being substituted for rigid metal shanks. The only improvement since made has
been that of covering the back of the silk-fronted buttons also with silk.

A covered button consists of two discs of metal and one of millboard, thicker or thinner, according
to circumstances. In making it, the sheet of iron is first scaled, by the use of powerful acids,
and then cut into proper size and shape by a press. The neck, or collet, of the button is japanned
after being stamped and cut. The hollow between the neck and shell is filled with millboard.
When the parts are put together and pressed the button is brought into shape, and its several
parts are consolidated.

It was in the year 1841 that Mr. John Aston made the first three-fold linen button--that is,
a button formed of a linen covering and a ring of metal, so put together that both sides and
centre were completely covered with separate pieces of linen, and thus produced being quite
flat. This being an exceedingly neat and convenient button, it became largely patronised, as
it still is by housewives, for all underclothing, having superseded the old thread button formed
of a ring of wire, with threads drawn over it and gathered in the centre. A slight improvement
was made by Mr. Elliott. During the time that the patent lasted these two gentlemen worked
in concert, and established a very successful business.

So great has been the demand for covered linen buttons at different times, that during one
single year Mr. Elliott's successors have in the process of making them required 63,000 yards
of cloth and 34 tons of metal, and given employment to 250 persons. As the button trade has
for a considerable time been in a very depressed condition, it is possible that the productions
of this firm may not be of such magnitude as they were a few years since.

With regard to the depressed condition of this branch of Birmingham industries, one manufacturer
assured me, only a few weeks ago, that where 150 persons were employed at one time, not more
than 20 or 30 would be working then. In visiting one of the largest manufactories the same
day, I saw sufficient to convince me of the truthfulness of his statement, for in passing through
the different workshops I saw one or two presses, stamps, and turning-lathes at work, whereas
several were unused and without attendants. One firm, when trade is in a flourishing condition,
will make about 15,000 gross of linen buttons weekly. Ivory buttons are made from the tusks
of elephants; but as the material is expensive, and the manipulation has to be conducted with
great care, and that chiefly by hand, they can only be used by persons who can afford to pay
a goodly sum.

During the last few years, in which a great variety of colours has been introduced, both for
ladies' and gentlemen's garments, and buttons have been required to match, it is fortunate
that a substitute has been found for ivory in the kernel of the "corozo" nut. This nut grows
in clusters on palm-like trees in South America, and is husked like a cocoanut, but is different
in shape and considerably smaller in dimensions. The kernel--the part used in button-making--is
milk-white, and being softer than animal ivory, is more easily turned, and as it readily absorbs
dyes, it can be made to take any colour with little trouble.

The process of making these vegetable ivory buttons is as follows:--After boys have cracked
the shells, the kernels are taken by men standing at benches in which small fine-toothed saws
are revolving. Only a slight pressure of the nut against the saw is required before it is divided
into equal parts. If necessary, the operation is repeated. Providing, however, that the pieces
of the nut are of proper dimensions, they are passed on to the turner.

The next process is that of cutting out or turning, and is performed in the following manner:--The
turner, after fixing a piece of the nut in the chuck of his lathe, brings a tubular cutter,
the face edge of which is toothed like a saw, to work on the exposed front surface of the nut;
the result is that of a rough button or mould. As these moulds are rough, they are passed on
to another lathe, where they are made smooth, and then to a third, where the holes are drilled.
They are next passed on to the dyer, who arranges his colours according to instructions received.
It sometimes happens that a mottled appearance is required; when such is the case, girls are
employed to touch them with the colours required by the aid of camel-hair pencils. The buttons
are next placed in tanks for drying, the tanks being heated by steam for that purpose.

Most of the buttons are polished in lathes by friction from their own dust, held in the hand
of the operative.

Porcelain buttons were invented by Mr. R. Prosser, of Birmingham, who, in conjunction with
the celebrated firm of Minter and Co., made them in large quantities in the potteries, about
the year 1840. They were, however, soon driven from the market by French manufacturers, who
sold a great gross--that is, twelve gross, each of twelve dozen--for the ridiculously small
sum of elevenpence.

Glass buttons are made by heating canes of glass and pinching them from the end with pliers,
which at the same time answer the purpose of a die. They are sold very cheaply, as low as twopence
a gross, but it is scarcely possible for any English firm to compete with Bohemia in their
production.

Mother-o'-pearl buttons are made out of pearl shells which have been imported from the coasts
of Macassar, Manilla, Bombay, the archipelago of the Pacific, the Bay of Panama, and a few
other places. Their market value is not always the same. At the present time it ranges from
£8 to £10 per hundredweight. The blanks are cut out of the shells by a steel tubular cutter,
similar to that used in cutting the vegetable ivory. As the cutter works its way through a
shell, small cylinders of pearl are disconnected, which are reduced in thickness by splitting
into discs, a little thicker than the button is required to be when finished. These blanks
are finished singly in a turning lathe, by being placed in a suitable chuck, and having a steel
tool applied to its face for producing the rim and depression in the centre. They are then
passed on to another lathe, where the holes are drilled, and afterwards to another, where they
are polished by friction and a mixture of rotten-stone and soft soap.

The best white buttons are those which are made from Macassar shells, and the best black from
shells of the archipelago of the Pacific. The latter are the dearest, in consequence of the
black shells not being so plentiful as those of lighter shades. Some few years since the consumption
of mother-o'-pearl shells in Birmingham amounted to nearly one thousand tons annually; the
failure of the fisheries in Central America has, however, reduced it to a little more than
a third, or about three hundred tons a year.

Thimbles are made by stamping, and afterwards turning in a lathe, the indentations being produced
by a suitable instrument. On the Continent the operatives make them with punches in as many
as five different mandrils. Scissors, bodkins, etc., have nothing connected with their manufacture
which calls for any special notice. Although, as in previous papers, I have conducted my readers
in paths not usual to girls and young women, I hope that my description of button-making will
interest a considerable number, and teach them to think more of buttons and how they are made
and by whom made than they have ever done before.

    W. W. B.

BITS ABOUT ANIMALS.

A SAGACIOUS COLT.

A gentleman whose pretty garden adjoined a park in which a number of young colts were grazing,
was much annoyed by the inroads of these animals. He took every precaution to prevent their
entrance, but to no purpose. Fences were examined and found intact, the gate was kept shut,
and yet one or more of the colts would soon be found devastating flower-beds, or browsing in
the kitchen garden. The provoking part of it was that no one could discover how the creatures
obtained an entrance.

At length men were hidden in the trees to watch, and the problem was speedily solved. A colt
trotted up to the gate and inserted its head between the bars, with the evident intention of
raising the latch. He made several vain attempts, but had not mastered the trick. The latch
remained in its place, and the colt outside.

For a few moments the animal stood cogitating, then trotted rapidly back to the spot where
he had left his companions. He singled out one of the most frequent visitors to the garden,
and, by some language peculiar to colts, made known his difficulty. The other at once returned
with his companion to the gate, inserted his head below one of the bars, and by a dexterous
movement displaced the latch, and the gate swung open. Then, throwing back his head as if to
say, "See how easy it is when one knows how," he went back whilst the other entered the garden.

It was noticed by the watchers that this last had not previously been seen within the forbidden
precincts, but the one that opened the gate for him had been particularly troublesome. The
fact that he was specially selected for the office of porter showed no little sagacity in the
would-be visitor to the garden. But, much as the cleverness of the animals might be admired,
care was taken to render its exercise useless for the future.

    RUTH LAMB.

VARIETIES

A FRENCH CONVERSATION.

Voltaire once said, "It is not clear, therefore it cannot be French." This is only partially
true, for the French language furnishes abundant material for puns and misunderstandings, intentional
or otherwise. The following amusing instance may serve as an illustration:--

Two sportsmen met together on their way home.

"Where do you come from?" the first asked the second, who was trembling with fright.

"I come--I come--from the forest of Bondy."

"And why are you so excited?"

"I have been attacked by robbers."

"How many were there?"

"Sept."

"What did you say?"

"Je dis sept."

"Dix-sept?"

"No; sans dix."

"Cent dix?"

"Oh, dear! no. Sans dix, sept."

"Good gracious! Cent dix-sept?"

"Nonsense. Sept sans dix-sept."

"Sept cent dix-sept."

"You don't understand me. Je te dis sept sans dix!"

"Dix-sept cent dix."

"You will drive me mad! Je te dis sept sans dix-sept!"

"Dix-sept cent dix-sept! I can understand your being frightened with such a number."

TO PRESERVE CUT FLOWERS.--An important rule in preserving cut flowers is never to cram the
vase with flowers. Many will last if only they have a large mass of water in the vase and not
too many stalks to feed on the water and pollute it. Vases that can hold a large quantity of
water are to be preferred to the spindle-shaped trumpets that are often used. Flat dishes covered
with wet sand are also useful for short-stalked or heavy-headed flowers; even partially-withered
blooms will revive when placed on this cool moist substance. Moss, though prettier than sand,
is to be avoided, as it soon smells disagreeably, and always interferes with the scent of the
flowers placed in it for preservation.

MOTHERS' THOUGHTS.

    To a goose one day a gosling came.
      As she surveyed it duly,
    She said, "No swan in all the world
      Is half so pretty, truly."

    In words like these all mothers' thoughts
      This wise old goose expressed;
    For of all babies in the world,
      Each thinks her own the best.

DOUBLE ACROSTIC.

    Dissatisfied with their appointed lot,
    These both aspir'd to seem what they were not;
    Foil'd in their schemes, they recognis'd, too late,
    The folly of attempts to shake the state.
    The first became, t' avoid a harsher doom,
    A menial, baser than the lowest groom;
    The second paid a far more heavy tax;
    Tried and condemn'd, he perished by the axe.

    1.  So fair and flatt'ring, and so bright of hue,
        Will it betray us? or will it be true?

    2.  Friend of two great philosophers, this youth
        Boasted himself yet more, the friend of truth.
        Throughout a long career he strove to scan
        The wondrous working of great Nature's plan,
        And taught his pupils, strolling at their ease,
        'Neath pleasant shelter of umbrageous trees.

    3.  The glorious witness to the living faith,
        In tortures passing unto life through death.

    4.  How many bow'd their heads to meet this thing!
        Priest, warrior, noble, princess, e'en a king.

    5.  The good old man, whose tender, loving heart,
        Unfitted him to act the sterner part
        Of curbing his rebellious children's will;
        His mild reproof they disregarded, till
        There fell the doom that had been prophesied,
        And in one day the sons and father died.

    6.  Oft melted and then pour'd into a mould,
        Translucent and inodorous when cold,
        Useful, abundant, and of little cost,
        Mis-spelt, miscall'd by those who use me most.

    7.  A butcher's son, who rose to eminence
        In legal circles by his clear good sense;
        For public service he was made a peer,
        And held the woolsack twice for many a year.

    8.  The Roman youth, to prove his hardihood,
        Thrust his right hand into the fire that stood
        Before the king; shrivel'd his hand remained,
        And he this surname by that act obtain'd.

    9.  A bird of Africa, that shows the way
        To where wild bees their stores of honey lay;
        Then perch'd aloft, content t' await his share
        Of honey which the hunters leave him there.

    10. The elder daughter, offer'd as a bride
        To him who foes successfully defied.
        With conquest flush'd, the low-born victor came,
        The fair princess's promis'd hand to claim,
        But only came to disappointment; since
        She had already wed a pow'rful prince.

    11. A jutting cape, which, when the Northmen spied,
        A fanciful resemblance they descried
        To human features; so they gave a name
        To mark that cape, and still it bears the same.

    12. How do you call that line, which, year by year,
        Traces the sun's course round the pictur'd sphere?

    13. In Scandinavian fables I am nam'd
        "Destroyer," and as evil genius fam'd;
        Interpolate one letter, and 'tis strange
        That I become preserver by the change.

    XIMENA.

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

EDUCATIONAL.

EDISCENDA.--The highest mountain known has been found in New Guinea, and is called Mount Hercules.
It is said to be 32,786 feet high, or 3,786 feet higher than Mount Everest, of the Himalayan Range.

VIOLET.--The best examination to pass would be either the Oxford or Cambridge; but if you do
not wish to do so much, that of the College of Preceptors would perhaps be sufficient for your
purpose.

A LONELY GIRL.--We think there is too much science and too little history and literature in
your list of books, and we should recommend a course of poetry also, as well as some works on art.

A, B, C, D, ETC.--In the chronicles of Robert of Gloucester the age of Brutus is purely legendary.
The whole chronicle is partly taken from the fabulous history of Geoffrey of Monmouth.

DORA (Bradford).--"How to Form a Small Library" was at page 7 and 122, vol. ii. Clean your
hair-brushes with flour or bran, rubbing them well together with it as if you were washing
them dry. You should write copies daily to improve your handwriting.

A. and M.--We are inclined to believe that governesses are not in demand anywhere in the colonies
unless they be willing to turn their hands to help in the household, just as a daughter of
the house might do. If you and your sister be willing to do this, and are both capable and
industrious, you might do well in Queensland. Write to the secretary of the Woman's Emigration
Society, New Buildings, Carteret-street, Queen Anne's-gate, London, S.W.

E. C. G.--We believe you can obtain grammars and dictionaries in most of the Eastern tongues
at Messrs. Trübner's, Ludgate-hill, E.C. We cannot say what progress you would make without
a master, as we do not know your capabilities.

MACAW.--We have great pleasure in giving the address of the correspondence class from which
you have derived so much advantage, and which you sought through our advice. Miss MacArthur,
4, Buckingham-street, Hillhead, Glasgow. So well managed, as it appears to be from your account,
we hope our notice may prove of much use to our readers.

MISS MACKAY.--We thank you for the particulars which you send us of your essay club, called
The Rookery, and willingly give your invitation to our readers to join it. There is no charge
made for these answers to correspondents. We are glad to give help and promote all useful efforts,
and believe we shall do so by giving your address as Hon. Secretary, Governor's House, H.M.
Prison, Lincoln.

LEONA WOODFIELD.--Candidates for hospital training are generally required to be from twenty-five
to forty years of age. They may enter the Children's Hospital, Great Ormond-street, at twenty-one.

UNION JACK.--The English language is a compound of three different dialects spoken for two
or three centuries after the Norman Conquest. That of the East Midland was the speech of the
metropolis, in which Chaucer, Gower, and Wyckliffe wrote, and was spoken in East Kent and Surrey.
There were also the Northern and Southern dialects, which, blending with the East Midland,
formed the basis of modern English. But these three dialects are likewise compounds of the
Saxon, Celtic, Danish, and Norman tongues. To get rid of the smell of paint, sprinkle some
hay with chloride of lime and leave it in the rooms; also a basin of water, to be changed night
and morning. You will perceive traces on the surface of what it has absorbed.

T. C. S.--Why do you not read our answers under this heading? You will find that there are
several societies for training female missionaries and catechists.

MARY COMMANDER.--Astronomers measure the distances between the earth and the stars by means
of mathematical calculations. You should procure some work on astronomy. There is a nice little
book published in our office called "The Heavens and the Earth," and another, rather larger,
called "The Midnight Sky;" both are illustrated.

MARY WILLIAMS.--If you refer to any volume of the G. O. P. and read our answers under the above
heading, you will see all we can tell you about telegraph clerks. We must decline to full up
space by continually repeating old answers.

WHITE TULIP must do as we have directed "Mary Williams," and find all the addresses of societies
where young women are trained for zenana and other missionary work. It is very wrong not to
go to church on Sunday mornings merely because of "feeling shy." That is rubbish. Attend to
your book and your prayers, and not to your neighbours. Nobody will notice you.

I. D. L. E.--Write to the secretary, Deaconesses' Training Institution, 41, Ferntower-road,
Mildmay Park, London, N., and at The Willows, Stoke Newington, N. Otherwise, if you desire
experience in parish work, you might be received at St. Luke's Invalid Home, Finsbury House,
Ramsgate. You had better write to both these institutions, giving your age, and stating whether
your application be made with the full consent of your parents. There are also the London Diocesan
Deaconesses' Institution, 12, Tavistock Crescent, Westbourne Park, W. (head sister, Deaconess
Cassin), and the East London Deaconesses' Home, 2, Sutton-place, Hackney, E. (deaconess, L.
Collier). If you would prefer a situation by the sea, apply to Sister Emma, Winchester Diocesan
Deaconesses' Home, Southsea, Hants.

JOSEPHINE.--There is a Governesses' Institute in Paris, at 48, Rue de Chaillot. Apply to the
secretary or lady principal. If you wish to belong to a teacher's guild, that of Great Britain
and Ireland has its office at 17, Buckingham-street, Strand, W.C. You must address the hon.
secretary. You write a very good hand.

BERTHA GREEN and DAISY.--The cheapest and best way for you to improve your education at home
will be to join one or more of the amateur societies instituted to assist girls who cannot
go to school nor have professional masters. A small directory of girls' educational and other
societies and clubs is to appear immediately, edited by one of our own staff of writers, especially
for the use of our girls, so many of whom write for the addresses of such and particulars about
them. (Messrs. Griffith and Farran, St. Paul's Churchyard, E.C.)

A POOR YOUNG GIRL.--So well educated as you are, you would be likely to get on well in a colony.
Anyone willing to act as mother's help, and put her hand to anything her employer does, and
is, moreover, capable of teaching the young people of the family, would be sure to get on well
in a colony.

NELLY HOLMES should advertise in the Times, or some good daily paper, for the situation she
requires. We cannot tell what salary a young girl in her teens would get.

ART.

C. O.--Our opinion of the drawing is not favourable. The outlines of the figure are not true
to nature in its undistorted form; they are those conceived by an uninstructed dress or stay
maker. As you are only thirteen years of age, you are not yet acquainted with pure classical
forms of beauty, and have time to cultivate your taste. Take lessons at a branch figure-drawing
school founded by the South Kensington School of Art. The kind of drawing to which you aspire
is much improved of late years, and shopkeepers begin to require that fashion-plates should
somewhat resemble the true "human form divine."

INDUSTRY and KATIE.--To preserve seaweed, gather specimens that are growing to rocks in preference
to those floating on the water, and lay them in a shallow pan filled with clean salt water.
Insert a piece of writing-paper under the seaweed and lift it out of the bath; spread out the
plant with a camel's-hair pencil in a natural form, and slant the paper to allow the water
to run off; then press between two pieces of board, lay on one of them two sheets of blotting-paper,
then the seaweed, and over the latter a piece of fine cambric, over that the blotting-paper,
and lastly the second piece of board; replace the cambric and blotting-paper daily, and when
the seaweed is quite dry brush over the coarser kinds with spirits of turpentine, in which
three small lumps of gum-mastic have been dissolved by shaking in a warm place. Two-thirds
of a small phial is the proper proportion. This mixture helps to retain the colour of the specimens.

ELLA and HELIOTROPE.--Painting carefully with muriatic acid will remove the rough coating outside
shells and show the mother o' pearl beneath it. They should be frequently dipped in water to
remove the burning acid, or it will make holes in the shell. To polish them, dip a rag in hydrochloric
acid and rub till clean; then dry in hot sawdust and polish with chamois leather. To paint
shells with oil-colours, mix the latter with Siccatif de Courtrai, or with mirrorine, and put
on the paints very dry. To paint them with water colours, lay a wash of white of egg over them;
mix the paints with Chinese white and white of egg. The best effects are produced with oil colours.

DAISY.--We make no distinction between persons who write to us, whether in service or out of
it. We have an enormous correspondence, and very little space is devoted to it. Thus, many
correspondents have to wait long for their answers. A good cashmere would suit very well for
a wedding dress. Get one that will be of service to you afterwards. If you live in London it
should not be very light. Your bonnet could be trimmed with white ribbon.

CHRISTIE.--Try laying on a wash of white of egg before painting in water-colours upon black
cardboard. This will remove the greasiness of the surface. Then lay on a wash of Chinese white,
and paint in the ordinary manner.

MISCELLANEOUS.

FINANCIER.--We consider that to wash with hot water is not bad for you, but should be supplemented
by a good rubbing (performed very quickly) with a wet towel all over the body. This will cause
a healthy reaction. But the morning is really the best time. "Sesame and Lilies" and "Stones
of Venice" are good books to read (of Ruskin's). There is a "Dictionary of English Literature,"
published by Cassell and Co., which might be useful to you.

MEMORY.--We hear that many people have derived much benefit from the memory systems, and "Stokes
on Memory" is a well-known book.

L. NUSSE.--We fear that all such things are only forms of throwing good money after bad. If
you really have reason to think that you are entitled to money, go to a respectable lawyer
for help.

B. K. E.--No one can limit the power of prayer and faith, and yours may be answered as your
heart desires. But do not "do evil that good may come."

OL SIE.--Your verses show much poetic feeling, and an affectionate nature, but you would need
to study the subject of composition before your lines were worth anything to anyone.

MONTHLY READER and MAY.--The sooner you get your teeth stopped the better. But make a good
choice of a dentist.

A. M. C.--The salaries in drapers' shops vary much, not only in different establishments, but
amongst the assistants in each, according to their special departments. Girls with tall, handsome
figures, employed for showing off mantles, get more than little girls behind the counter, and
dress and mantle, or bonnet and cap makers are comparatively well paid. You must make special
personal application.

AN ARUM LILY.--Use a rosemary wash for aiding the growth of the hair. See our articles on the
care of the hair, page 631, vol. vi.

ROSINA.--The young men who so far forgot themselves and presumed to speak to you and your friend
without a proper introduction, are not suitable acquaintances for respectable girls. But you
should not have been rude; you should simply have walked away to your chaperon, or some married
person of your acquaintance.

LACK PENNY might, perhaps, teach a few little girls at home. Has she any friends who would
be glad to send them to her, instead of to a school, for a couple of hours in the morning,
when busy themselves? There is nothing to be ashamed of in earning money, if you have it not,
for your requirements.

FLOO.--You slope your letters the wrong way, and we could scarcely read your writing. If you
want to improve it, slope it the right way, and cross every "t." We do not know how the mother
o' pearl became stained. Probably it was washed in hot water, and so cracked all over. You
might try a quick brush over with diluted muriatic acid, and an immediate dip into cold water,
then rubbing well with some sweet oil on a soft piece of flannel. Beware of touching your eyes
after using muriatic acid, as it burns, and should be put carefully away, that ignorant people
or children may not touch it.

E. M. P.--Perhaps your dogs are mangy. In any case you should show them to a veterinary surgeon.
Consult our indexes.

ANXIOUS ONE.--Your duty is very plain. Go to your clergyman, and tell him of the discovery
you have made, and ask him to baptise you at once. If your name were sent in for confirmation
after your course of preparation, you are, of course, ready for your baptism.

TIM TIPPIN should study the art of metrical composition. What she has written is very irregular
and incorrect. But even were it perfectly according to rule, there is no new thought in it,
no beautiful simile, nothing original. She is very young, and therefore could by no means be
expected to produce what a powerful or imaginative intellect alone could produce, when arrived
at its full development at some ten or twelve years later in life. So she must learn a good
deal more before she can "become famous."

EDITH.--We are unable to find employment and name employers for our correspondents, much as
we sympathise with them in their desire to be self-supporting.

URSULA.--We do not answer seven questions. Bride and bridegroom sit side by side at the top
of the table, the two fathers take in the two mothers, and first bridesmaid and best man pair
together.

I. NIBS.--You would be much wiser to try and get your story as a serial into one of the papers
in your own colony. We could not promise to take unknown MS., and unless you copied it you
might lose it in passing through the post.

A MARCH ELF should wear her hair in a plait at the back, tied up with a bow of ribbon, and
curled a little in front. She is too young to need steels in her dresses.

E. C.--The frontispiece appears to tell its own story of poverty and weakness--a poor dressmaker,
unable to finish a dress by a given time. Water may be softened by using borax, ammonia, or
oatmeal, when needed for the skin. Boiling water and soda will generally take out stains from
table linen.

JESSIE.--We know nothing more about the water scheme than the newspaper report, which "Jessie"
has herself seen.

SAFFRON CROCUS.--Read our article on "Lissom Hands and Pretty Feet," vol. i., page 348.

ETHEL.--Pincushions and fans, embroidered and ornamented in various ways, seem the most general
contributions at bazaars at present. Painted match-boxes, writing-cases, and painted jars for
tobacco, are all useful and sell well.

GRETCHEN.--There is a small volume on "Indian Outfits" published by Mr. Gill, 170, Strand,
which is very valuable.

EDINBURGH.--We could not give you the addresses of persons who would buy your work, and a little
consideration would have prevented your asking such a question. Your own personal exertions
must be used to find outlets for your work. You cannot expect to sit still and be helped.

AYACANORA II. does not say whether the mauve silk be light or dark. Mauve is now a very fashionable
colour, and would mix well with dark velvet or velveteen of the same colour for the autumn.
It would also look well with cashmere or canvas of the same colour, but of a darker shade.
Dark red velvet could also be mixed with it. If the bodice be good, make a Swiss belt, with
cuffs and collar of velvet, and long front and back drapery of the same.

FURRIER'S DAUGHTER.--More furs are made up in England than anywhere else, and, as a fur sewer,
you will do better here, we should think. The secretary will give advice and information.

MABEL has our best thanks for her kind and courteous note.

VERONIQUE.--"That Aggravating Schoolgirl" began in vol. ii., at page 9.

MARIE.--Do not wash your head every morning. The bath water should be tepid. A sponge bath
can be taken with very little water and little trouble.

ETHILD MYA BAL.--There is no sequel to the "Wide, Wide World," that we know of. We are very
sorry to hear of your suffering, and hope you may soon be better.

A GIPSY GIRL.--The lines you send are not poetry, nor are they very original in thought; but
if it be a comfort for you to write them, they have served a good purpose.

CUCUMBER.--We know of no cure but the constant use of a pair of tweezers.

AN OLD ANGLO-GERMAN GIRL.--We were much interested in your letter. We can sympathise with all
our girls, at every age, and in every climate. The series will be concluded soon.

FAIRY DELL (Cyprus).--You would have to apply to a surgeon. Gargle the throat night and morning
with salt and water, or vinegar and water, to strengthen it.