November 3d.--Wrote all the morning.  In the P. M. went to see the Sumner reception as he comes
home after the Brooks affair.  I saw him pass up Beacon Street, pale and feeble, but smiling
and bowing.  I rushed to Hancock Street, and was in time to see him bring his proud old mother
to the window when the crowd gave three cheers for her.  I cheered, too, and was very much
excited.  Mr. Parker met him somewhere before the ceremony began, and the above P. cheered
like a boy; and Sumner laughed and nodded as his friend pranced and shouted, bareheaded and
beaming.

My kind cousin, L. W., got tickets for a course of lectures on "Italian Literature," and seeing
my old cloak sent me a new one, with other needful and pretty things such as girls love to
have.  I shall never forget how kind she has always been to me.

November 5th.--Went with H. W. to see Manager Barry about the everlasting play which is always
coming out but never comes.  We went all over the great new theatre, and I danced a jig on
the immense stage.  Mr. B. was very kind, and gave me a pass to come whenever I liked.  This
was such richness I didn't care if the play was burnt on the spot, and went home full of joy.
In the eve I saw La Grange as Norma, and felt as if I knew all about that place.  Quite stage-struck,
and imagined myself in her place, with white robes and oak-leaf crown.

November 6th.--Sewed happily on my job of twelve sheets for H. W., and put lots of good will
into the work after his kindness to me.

Walked to Roxbury to see cousin Dr. W. about the play and tell the fine news.  Rode home in
the new cars, and found them very nice.

In the eve went to teach at Warren Street Chapel Charity School.  I'll help as I am helped
if I can.  Mother says no one so poor he can't do a little for some one poorer yet.

Sunday.--Heard Parker on "Individuality of Character," and liked it much.  In the eve I went
to his house.  Mrs. Howe was there, and Sumner and others.  I sat in my usual corner, but Mr.
P. came up and said, in that cordial way of his, "Well, child, how goes it?"  "Pretty well,
sir."  "That's brave"; and with his warm handshake he went on, leaving me both proud and happy,
though I have my trials.  He is like a great fire where all can come and be warmed and comforted.
Bless him!

Monday, 14th.--May came full of expectation and joy to visit good aunt B. and study drawing.
We walked about and had a good home talk, then my girl went off to Auntie's to begin what I
hope will be a pleasant and profitable winter.  She needs help to develop her talent, and I
can't give it to her.

Went to see Forrest as Othello.  It is funny to see how attentive all the once cool gentlemen
are to Miss Alcott now she has a pass to the new theatre.

November 29th.--My birthday.  Felt forlorn so far from home.  Wrote all day.  Seem to be getting
on slowly, so should be contented.  To a little party at the B.'s in the eve.  May looked very
pretty, and seemed to be a favorite.  The boys teased me about being an authoress, and I said
I'd be famous yet.  Will if I can, but something else may be better for me.

Found a pretty pin from father and a nice letter when I got home.  Mr. H. brought them with
letters from mother and Betty, so I went to bed happy.

December.--Busy with Christmas and New Year's tales.  Heard a good lecture by E. P. Whipple
on "Courage."  Thought I needed it, being rather tired of living like a spider--spinning my
brains out for money.

Wrote a story, "The Cross on the Church Tower," suggested by the tower before my window.

Called on Mrs. L., and she asked me to come and teach A. for three hours each day.  Just what
I wanted; and the children's welcome was very pretty and comforting to "Our Olly," as they
called me.

Now board is all safe, and something over for home, if stories and sewing fail.  I don't do
much, but can send little comforts to mother and Betty, and keep May neat.

December 18th.--Begin with A. L., in Beacon Street.  I taught C. when we lived in High Street,
A. in Pinckney Street, and now Al; so I seem to be an institution and a success, since I can
start the boy, teach one girl, and take care of the little invalid.  It is hard work, but I
can do it; and am glad to sit in a large, fine room part of each day, after my sky-parlor,
which has nothing pretty in it, and only the gray tower and blue sky outside as I sit at the
window writing.  I love luxury, but freedom and independence better.

[To her father, written from Mrs. Reed's]

Boston, November 29, 1856.

DEAREST FATHER: Your little parcel was very welcome to me as I sat alone in my room, with snow
falling fast outside, and a few tears in (for birthdays are dismal times to me); and the fine
letter, the pretty gift, and, most of all, the loving thought so kindly taken for your old
absent daughter, made the cold, dark day as warm and bright as summer to me.

And now, with the birthday pin upon my bosom, many thanks on my lips, and a whole heart full
of love for its giver, I will tell you a little about my doings, stupid as they will seem after
your own grand proceedings.  How I wish I could be with you, enjoying what I have always longed
for--fine people, fine amusements, and fine books.  But as I can't, I am glad you are; for
I love to see your name first among the lecturers, to hear it kindly spoken of in papers and
inquired about by good people here--to say nothing of the delight and pride I take in seeing
you at last filling the place you are so fitted for, and which you have waited for so long
and patiently.  If the New Yorkers raise a statue to the modern Plato, it will be a wise and
highly creditable action.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

I am very well and very happy.  Things go smoothly, and I think I shall come out right, and
prove that though an Alcott I can support myself.  I like the independent feeling; and though
not an easy life, it is a free one, and I enjoy it.  I can't do much with my hands; so I will
make a battering-ram of my head and make a way through this rough-and-tumble world.  I have
very pleasant lectures to amuse my evenings--Professor Gajani on "Italian Reformers," the Mercantile
Library course, Whipple, Beecher, and others, and, best of all, a free pass at the Boston Theatre.
I saw Mr. Barry, and he gave it to me with many kind speeches, and promises to bring out the
play very soon.  I hope he will.

My farce is in the hands of Mrs. W. H. Smith, who acts at Laura Keene's theatre in New York.
She took it, saying she would bring it out there. If you see or hear anything about it, let
me know.  I want something doing.  My mornings are spent in writing.  C. takes one a month,
and I am to see Mr. B., who may take some of my wares.

In the afternoons I walk and visit my hundred relations, who are all kind and friendly, and
seem interested in our various successes.

Sunday evenings I go to Parker's parlor, and there meet Phillips, Garrison, Scherb, Sanborn,
and many other pleasant people.  All talk, and I sit in a corner listening, and wishing a certain
placid, gray-haired gentleman was there talking, too.  Mrs. Parker calls on me, reads my stories,
and is very good to me.  Theodore asks Louisa "how her worthy parents do," and is otherwise
very friendly to the large, bashful girl who adorns his parlor steadily.

