"Curious to think," said the Squire of Malwood, who just now has unusually full opportunities
for reflection, "that a few years ago DAVITT was working out the Irish Question with a rope
over his shoulder, dragging a cart of stones through the court-yard of one of Her Majesty's
prisons. No one, casually coming across him at Portland, would have ventured to forecast the
hour when, standing up, the centre of interest in an applauding House of Commons, he should
have had an opportunity of reasoning with the only occasionally DUM BARTON, warning him against
the practice of treason-felony, and reminding him that the pathway to the Bench does not lie
by way of the dock. No parallel in politics to the Irish Question. Some of us have our earlier
studies interrupted by a sentence of imprisonment; others, I daresay, will, later on, find
in similar chaste repose opportunity of reviewing our connection with it."

Involuntarily the eye of the Great Philosopher rested on the graceful figure of PRINCE ARTHUR,
whose speech at Belfast, on the Philosophy of Rebellion, DAVITT just now cited in justification
of the overt acts that led him to Portland.

Business done.--Fourth Night Home-Rule Debate.

Thursday.--"In spite of all temptation, I have hitherto remained a Member of House of Commons,"
CHAPLIN said to me just now. "I might by this time, had I pleased, been a Duke, and my most
unscrupulous detractor will not deny that is a position I could fill with pictorial effect;
but I've stuck to the Commons, and this is my reward."

Truly a striking episode. CHAPLIN delivered oration on Home-Rule Bill hour and half long. Had
sat up night and day with it, polishing its rotund periods, till, as PRINCE ARTHUR whispers,
"CHAPLIN, gazing upon their surface, saw not himself, but DEMOSTHENES." Fortune favoured him
in opportunity. Member for Sunderland had secured privilege of resuming Debate after Questions.
Resolved to make long STOREY short, he sacrificed his position. CHAPLIN nimbly stepped in,
and reasonably looked forward to crowning epoch in shining Parliamentary career. To open or
resume Debate between four and five in afternoon is a prized opportunity; accident had placed
it within CHAPLIN'S grasp; the hour had struck, and here, at the table, was the Man.

Alack, for the instability of human prospects! When the House, fairly full, beheld the sunny
presence at the table, watched it produce the vaporous folds of manuscript, noted the shrug
of satisfaction with which it set about its self-appointed task, it folded its tent like the
Arab, and, though not as silently, stole away. Trundled and bundled out, with ostentatious
indifference to great orator, the fund of information he had garnered, the counsel with which
he was charged. CHAPLIN had brought statesmanship and literature of Europe into review, picking
out from encyclopædic stores testimony to destruction of Mr. G.'s pet scheme. The very names
quoted were a liberal education--Mr. LECKY, Count BEUST, CAVOUR, Dr. GEFFCKEN, M. DE MOLINARIS.
And then interposes the SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE with bland deferential inquiry--

"I beg the Right Hon. Gentleman's pardon, I did not catch the name. Was it M. APOLLINARIS?"

