Linaria italica is a hybrid toad-flax between L. genistifolia and L. vulgaris, a cross which
I have repeated in my garden. Drosera obovata [268] is a hybrid sundew between D. anglica and
D. rotundifolia. Primula variabilis is a hybrid between the two common primroses, P. officinalis
and P. grandiflora. The willow-herb (Epilobium), the self-heal (Brunella) and the yellow pond-lilies
(Nuphar) afford other instances of constant wild hybrids.

Macfarlane has discovered a natural hybrid between two species of sundew in the swamps near
Atco, N.J. The parents, D. intermedia and D. filiformis, were growing abundantly all around,
but of the hybrid only a group of eleven plants was found. A detailed comparison of the hybrid
with its parents demonstrated a minute blending of the anatomical peculiarities of the parental
species.

Luther Burbank of Santa Rosa, California, has produced a great many hybrid brambles, the qualities
of which in many respects surpass those of the wild species. Most of them are only propagated
by cuttings and layers, not being stable from seed. But some crosses between the blackberry
and the raspberry (R. fruticosus and R. idaeus) which bear good fruit and have become quite
popular, are so fixed in their type as to reproduce their composite characters from seed with
as much regularity as the species of Rubus found in nature. Among them are the "Phenomenal"
and the [269] "Primus." The latter is a cross between the Californian dewberry and the Siberian
raspberry and is certainly to be regarded as a good stable species, artificially produced.
Bell Salter crossed the willow-herbs Epilobium tetragonum and E. montanum, and secured intermediate
hybrids which remained true to their type during four successive generations.

Other instances might be given. Many of them are to be found in horticultural and botanical
journals which describe their systematic and anatomical details. The question of stability
is generally dealt with in an incidental manner, and in many cases it is difficult to reach
conclusions from the facts given. Especially disturbing is the circumstance that from a horticultural
point of view it is quite sufficient that a new type should repeat itself in some of its offspring
to be called stable, and that for this reason absolute constancy is rarely proved.

The range of constant hybrids would be larger by far were it not for two facts. The first is
the absolute sterility of so many beautiful hybrids, and the second is the common occurrence
of retrogressive characters among cultivated plants. To describe the importance of both these
groups of facts would take too much [270] time, and therefore it seems best to give some illustrative
examples instead.

Among the species of Ribes or currant, which are cultivated in our gardens, the most beautiful
are without doubt the Californian and the Missouri currant, or Ribes sanguineum and R. aureum.
A third form, often met with, is "Gordon's currant," which is considered to be a hybrid between
the two. It has some peculiarities of both parents. The leaves have the general form of the
Californian parent, but are as smooth as the Missouri species. The racemes or flower-spikes
are densely flowered as in the red species, but the flowers themselves are of a yellow tinge,
with only a flesh-red hue on the outer side of the calyx. It grows vigorously and is easily
multiplied by cuttings, but it never bears any fruit. Whether it would be constant, if fertile,
is therefore impossible to decide. Berberis ilicifolia is considered as a hybrid between the
European barberry (B. vulgaris) and the cultivated shrub Mahonia aquifolia. The latter has
pinnate leaves, the former undivided ones. The hybrid has undivided leaves which are more spiny
than those of the European parent, and which are not deciduous like them, but persist during
the winter, a peculiarity inherited from the Mahonia. As far as I [271] have been able to ascertain,
this hybrid never produces seed.

Another instance of an absolutely sterile hybrid is the often quoted Cytisus adami. It is a
cross between the common laburnum (Cytisus Laburnum) and another species of the same genus,
C. purpureus, and has some traits of both. But since the number of differentiating marks is
very great in this case, most of the organs have become intermediate. It is absolutely sterile.
But it has the curious peculiarity of splitting in a vegetative way. It has been multiplied
on a large scale by grafting and was widely found in the parks and gardens of Europe during
the last century. Nearly all these specimens reverted from time to time to the presumable parents.
Not rarely a bud of Adam's laburnum assumed all the qualities of the common laburnum, its larger
leaves, richer flowered racemes, large and brightly yellow flowers and its complete fertility.
Other buds on the same tree reverted to the purple parent, with its solitary small flowers,
its dense shrublike branches and very small leaves. These too are fertile, though not producing
their seeds as abundantly as the C. Laburnum reversions. Many a botanist has sown the seeds
of the latter and obtained only pure common C. Laburnum plants. I had a lot of nearly a hundred
seedlings [272] myself, many of which have already flowered, bearing the leaves and flowers
of the common species. Seeds of the purple reversions have also been sown, and also yielded
the parental type only.

Why this most curious hybrid sports so regularly and why others always remain true to their
type is as yet an open question.

But recalling our former consideration of this subject the supposition seems allowable that
the tendency to revert is not connected with the type of the hybrid, but is apt to occur in
some rare individuals of every type. But since most of the sterile hybrids are only known to
us in a single individual and its vegetative offspring, this surmise offers an explanation
of the rare occurrence of sports.

Finally, we must consider some of the so called hybrid races or strains of garden-plants. Dahlia,
Gladiolus, Amaryllis, Fuchsia, Pelargonium and many other common flowers afford the best known
instances. Immeasurable variability seems here to be the result of crossing. But on a closer
inspection the range of characters is not so very much wider in these hybrid races than in
the groups of parent species which have contributed to the origin of the hybrids. Our tuberous
begonias owe their variability to at least seven original parent species, [273] and to the
almost incredible number of combinations which are possible between their characters. The first
of these crosses was made in the nursery of Veitch and Sons near London by Seden, and the first
hybrid is accordingly known as Begonia sedeni and is still to be met with. It has been superseded
by subsequent crosses between the sedeni itself and the Veitchi and rosiflora, the davisii,
the clarkii and others. Each of them contributed its advantageous qualities, such as round
flowers, rosy color, erect flower stalks, elevation of the flowers above the foliage and others.
New crosses are being made continuously, partly between the already existing hybrids and partly
with newly introduced wild species. Only rarely is it possible to get pure seeds, and I have
not yet been able to ascertain whether the hybrids would come true from seed. Specific and
varietal characters may occur together in many of the several forms, but nothing is as yet
accurately known as to their behavior in pure fertilizations. Constancy and segregation are
thrown together in such a manner that extreme variability results, and numerous beautiful types
may be had, and others may be expected from further crosses. For a scientific analysis, however,
the large range of recorded facts and the written history, which at first sight [274] seems
to have no lacunae, are not sufficient. Most of the questions remain open and need investigation.
It would be a capital idea to try to repeat the history of the begonias or any other hybrid
race, making all the described crosses and then recording the results in a manner requisite
for complete and careful scientific investigations.

Many large genera of hybrid garden-flowers owe their origin to species rich in varieties or
in elementary subspecies. Such is the case with the gladiolus and the tulips. In other cases
the original types have not been obtained from the wild state but from the cultures of other
countries.

The dahlias were cultivated in Mexico when first discovered by Europeans, and the chrysanthemums
have been introduced from the old gardens of Japan. Both of them consisted of various types,
which afterwards have been increased chiefly by repeated intercrossing.

The history of many hybrid races is obscure, or recorded by different authorities in a different
way. Some have derived their evidence from one nursery, some from another, and the crosses
evidently may have been different in different places. The early history of the gladiolus is
an instance. The first crosses are recorded to have been made between Gladiolus [275] psittacinus
and G. cardinalis, and between their hybrid, which is still known under the name of gandavensis
and the purpureo-auratus. But other authors give other lines of descent. So it is with Amaryllis,
which is said by De Graaff to owe its stripes to A. vittata, its fine form to A. brasiliensis,
the large petals to A. psittacina, the giant flowers to A. leopoldi, and the piebald patterns
to A. pardina. But here, too, other authors give other derivations.

Summarizing the results of our inquiry we see in the first place how very much remains to be
done. Many old crosses must be repeated and studied anew, taking care of the purity of the
cross as well as of the harvesting of the seeds. Many supposed facts will be shown to be of
doubtful validity. New facts have to be gathered, and in doing so the distinction between specific
and varietal marks must be taken strictly into account. The first have originated as progressive
mutations; they give unbalanced crosses with a constant offspring, as far as experience now
goes. The second are chiefly due to retrograde modifications, and will be the subject of the
next lecture.

[276]

LECTURE X

MENDEL'S LAW OF BALANCED CROSSES

In the scientific study of the result of crosses, the most essential point is the distinction
of the several characters of the parents in their combination in the hybrids and their offspring.
From a theoretical point of view it would be best to choose parents which would differ only
in a single point. The behavior of the differentiating character might then easily be seen.

Unfortunately, such simple cases do not readily occur. Most species, and even many elementary
species are distinguished by more than one quality. Varieties deviating only in one unit-character
from the species, are more common. But a closer inspection often reveals some secondary characters
which may be overlooked in comparative or descriptive studies, but which reassume their importance
in experimental crossings.

In a former lecture we have dealt with the qualities which must be considered as being due
to the acquisition of new characters. If we [277] compare the new form in this case with the
type from which it has originated, it may be seen that the new character does not find its
mate, or its opposite, and it will be unpaired in the hybrid.

In the case of retrogressive changes the visible modification is due, at least in the best
known instances, to the reduction of an active quality to a state of inactivity or latency.
Now if we make a cross between a species and its variety, the differentiating character will
be due to the same internal unit, with no other difference than that it is active in the species
and latent in the variety. In the hybrid these two corresponding units will make a pair. But
while all other pairs in the same hybrid individuals consist of like antagonists, only this
pair consists of slightly unlike opponents.

This conception of varietal crosses leads to three assertions, which seem justifiable by actual
experience.

First, there is no reason for a diminution of the fertility, as all characters are paired in
the hybrid, and no disturbance whatever ensues in its internal structure. Secondly, it is quite
indifferent, how the two types are combined, or which of them is chosen as pistillate and which
as staminate parent. The deviating pair will have the same constitution in both cases, being
[278] built up of one active and one dormant unit. Thirdly this deviating pair will exhibit
the active unit which it contains, and the hybrid will show the aspect of the parent in which
the character was active and not that of the parent in which it was dormant. Now the active
quality was that of the species, and its latent state was found in the variety. Hence the inference
that hybrids between a species and its retrograde variety will bear the aspect of the species.
This attribute may be fully developed, and then the hybrid will not be distinguishable from
the pure species in its outer appearance. Or the character may be incompletely evolved, owing
to the failure of cooperation of the dormant unit. In this case the hybrid will be in some
sense intermediate between its parents, but these instances are more rare than the alternate
ones, though presumably they may play an important part in the variability of many hybrid garden-flowers.

All of these three rules are supported by a large amount of evidence. The complete fertility
of varietal hybrids is so universally acknowledged that it is not worth while to give special
instances. With many prominent systematists it has become a test between species and varieties,
and from our present point of view this assumption is correct. Only the test is of little use
in practice, as fertility may be diminished [279] in unbalanced unions in all possible degrees,
according to the amount of difference between the parents. If this amount is slight, if for
instance, only one unit-character causes the difference, the injury to fertility may, be so
small as to be practically nothing. Hence we see that this test would not enable us to judge
of the doubtful cases, although it is quite sufficient as a proof in cases of wider differences.

Our second assertion related to the reciprocal crosses. This is the name given to two sexual
combinations between the same parents, but with interchanged places as to which furnishes the
pollen. In unbalanced crosses of the genus Oenothera the hybrids of such reciprocal unions
are often different, as we have previously shown. Sometimes both resemble the pollen parent
more, in other instances the pistil-parent. In varietal crosses no such divergence is as yet
known. It would be quite superfluous to adduce single cases as proofs for this rule, which
was formerly conceived to hold good for hybrids in general. The work of the older hybridists,
such as Koelreuter and Gaertner affords numerous instances.

Our third rule is of a wholly different nature. Formerly the distinction between elementary
species and varieties was not insisted upon, and the principle which stamps retrograde changes
[280] as the true character of varieties is a new one. Therefore it is necessary to cite a
considerable amount of evidence in order to prove the assertion that a hybrid bears the active
character of its parent-species and not the inactive character of the variety chosen for the cross.

We may put this assertion in a briefer form, stating that the active character prevails in
the hybrid over its dormant antagonist. Or as it is equally often put, the one dominates and
the other is recessive. In this terminology the character of the species is dominant in the
hybrid while that of the variety is recessive. Hence it follows that in the hybrid the latent
or dormant unit is recessive, but it does not follow that these three terms have the same meaning,
as we shall see presently. The term recessive only applies to the peculiar state into which
the latent character has come in the hybrid by its pairing with the antagonistic active unit.

In the first place it is of the highest importance to consider crosses between varieties of
recorded origin and the species from which they have sprung. When dealing with mutations of
celandine we shall see that the laciniated form originated from the common celandine in a garden
at Heidelberg about the year 1590. Among my Oenotheras one of the eldest of the recent productions
is the O. brevistylis or short [281] styled species which was seen for the first time in the
year 1889. The third example offered is a hairless variety of the evening campion, Lychnis
vespertina, found the same year, which hitherto had not been observed.

For these three cases I have made the crosses of the variety with the parent-species, and in
each case the hybrid was like the species, and not like the variety. Nor was it intermediate.
Here it is proved that the older character dominates the younger one.

In most cases of wild, and of garden-varieties, the relation between them and the parent-species
rests upon comparative evidence. Often the variety is known to be younger, in other cases it
may be only of local occurrence, but ordinarily the historic facts about its origin have never
been known or have long since been forgotten.

The easiest and most widely known varietal crosses are those between varieties with white flowers
and the red- or blue-flowered species. Here the color prevails in the hybrid over the lack
of pigment, and as a rule the hybrid is as deeply tinted as the species itself, and cannot
be distinguished from it, without an investigation of its hereditary qualities. Instances may
be cited of the white varieties of the snapdragon, of the red clover, the long-spurred violet
(Viola [282] cornuta) the sea-shore aster (Aster Tripolium), corn-rose (Agrostemma Githago),
the Sweet William (Silene Armeria), and many garden flowers, as for instance, the Clarkia pulchella,
the Polemonium coeruleum, the Veronica longifolia, the gloxinias and others. If the red hue
is combined with a yellow ground-color in the species, the variety will be yellow and the hybrid
will have the red and yellow mixture of the species as for instance, in the genus Geum. The
toad-flax has an orange-colored palate, and a variety occurs in which the palate is of the
same yellow tinge as the remaining parts of the corolla. The hybrid between them is in all
respects like the parent-species.

Other instances could be given. In berries the same rule prevails. The black nightshade has
a variety with yellow berries, and the black color returns in the hybrid. Even the foliage
of some garden-plants may afford instances, as for instance, the purplish amaranth (Amaranthus
caudatus). It has a green variety, but the hybrid between the two has the red foliage of the
species.

Special marks in leaves and in flowers follow the same rule. Some varieties of the opium poppy
have large black patches at the basal end of the petals, while in others this pattern is entirely
white. In crossing two such varieties, [283] for instance, the dark "Mephisto" with the white-hearted
"Danebrog," the hybrid shows the active character of the dark pattern.

Hairy species crossed with their smooth varieties produce hairy hybrids, as in some wheats,
in the campion (Lychnis), in Biscutella and others. The same holds good for the crosses between
spiny species and their unarmed derivatives, as in the thorn-apple, the corn-crowfoot (Ranunculus
arvensis) and others.

Lack of starch in seeds is observed in some varieties of corn and of peas. When such derivatives
are crossed with ordinary starch-producing types, the starch prevails in the hybrid.

It would take too much time to give further examples. But there is still one point which should
be insisted upon. It is not the systematic relation of the two parents of a cross, that is
decisive, but only the occurrence of the same quality, in the one in an active, and in the
other in an inactive condition. Hence, whenever this relation occurs between the parents of
a cross, the active quality prevails in the hybrid, even when the parents differ from each
other in other respects so as to be distinguished as systematic species. The white and red
campions give a red hybrid, the black and pale henbane (Hyoscyamus niger and H. pallidus) give
a hybrid [284] with the purple veins and center in the corolla of the former, the white and
blue thornapple produce a blue hybrid, and so on. Instances of this sort are common in cultivated
plants.

Having given this long list of examples of the rule of the dominancy of the active character
over the opposite dormant unit, the question naturally arises as to how the antagonistic units
are combined in the hybrid. This question is of paramount importance in the consideration of
the offspring of the hybrids. But before taking it up it is as well to learn the real signification
of recessiveness in the hybrids themselves.

Recessive characters are shown by those rare cases, in which hybrids revert to the varietal
parent in the vegetative way. In other words by bud-variations or sports, analogous to the
splitting of Adam's laburnum into its parents, by means of bud-variation already described.
But here the wide range of differentiating characters of the parents of this most curious hybrid
fail. The illustrative examples are extremely simple, and are limited to the active and inactive
condition of only one quality.

An instance is given by the long-leaved veronica (Veronica longifolia), which has bluish flowers
in long spikes. The hybrid between [285] this species and its white variety has a blue corolla.
But occasionally it produces some purely white flowers, showing its power of separating the
parental heritages, combined in its internal structures. This reversion is not common, but
in thousands of flowering spikes one may expect to find at least one of them. Sometimes it
is a whole stem springing from the underground system and bearing only white flowers on all
its spikes. In other instances it is only a side branch which reverts and forms white flowers
on a stem, the other spikes of which remain bluish. Sometimes a spike even differentiates longitudinally,
bearing on one side blue and on the other white corollas, and the white stripe running over
the spike may be seen to be long and large, or narrow and short in various degrees. In such
cases it is evident that the heritages of the parents remain uninfluenced by each other during
the whole life of the hybrid, working side by side, but the active element always prevails
over its latent opponent which is ready to break free whenever an opportunity is offered.

It is now generally assumed that this incomplete mixture of the parental qualities in a hybrid,
this uncertain and limited combination is the true cause of the many deviations, exhibited
by varietal hybrids when compared with their [286] parents. Partial departures are rare in
the hybrids themselves, but in their offspring the divergence becomes the rule.

Segregation seems to be a very difficult process in the vegetative way, but it must be very
easy in sexual reproduction, indeed so easy as to show itself in nearly every single instance.

Leaving this first generation, the original hybrids, we now come to a discussion of their offspring.
Hybrids should be fertilized either by their own pollen, or by that of other individuals born
from the same cross. Only in this case can the offspring be considered as a means of arriving
at a decision as to the internal nature of the hybrids themselves. Breeders generally prefer
to fertilize hybrids with the pollen of their parents. But this operation is to be considered
as a new cross, and consequently is wholly excluded from our present discussion. Hence it follows
that a clear insight into the heredity of hybrids may be expected only from scientific experiments.
Furthermore some of the diversity observed as a result of ordinary crosses, may be due to the
instability of the parents themselves or at least of one of them, since breeders ordinarily
choose for their crosses some already very variable strain. Combining such a strain with the
desirable qualities of some newly imported species, a new strain may [287] result, having the
new attribute in addition to all the variability of the old types. In scientific experiments
made for the purpose of investigating the general laws of hybridity, such complex cases are
therefore to be wholly excluded. The hereditary purity of the parents must be considered as
one of the first conditions of success.

Moreover the progeny must be numerous, since neither constancy, nor the exact proportions in
the case of instability, can be determined with a small lot of plants.

Finally, and in order to come to a definite choice of research material, we should keep in
mind that the chief object is to ascertain the relation of the offspring to their parents.
Now in nearly all cases the seeds are separated from the fruits and from one another, before
it becomes possible to judge of their qualities. One may open a fruit and count the seeds,
but ordinarily nothing is noted as to their characters. In this respect no other plant equals
the corn or maize, as the kernels remain together on the spike, and as it has more than one
variety characterized by the color, or constitution, or other qualities of the grains. A corn-grain,
however, is not a seed, but a fruit containing a seed. Hence the outer parts pertain to the
parent plant and only the innermost ones to the [288] seedling and therefore to the following
generation. Fruit-characters thus do not offer the qualities we need, only the qualities resulting
from fertilizations are characteristic of the new generation. Such attributes are afforded
in some cases by the color, in others by the chemical constitution.

We will choose the latter, and take the sugarcorn in comparison with the ordinary or starch
producing forms for our starting point. Both sugar- and starch-corns have smooth fruits when
ripening. No difference is to be seen in the young ripe spikes. Only the taste, or a direct
chemical analysis might reveal the dissimilarity. But as soon as the spikes are dried, a diversity
is apparent. The starchy grains remain smooth, but the sugary kernels lose so much water that
they become wrinkled. The former becomes opaque, the latter more or less transparent. Every
single kernel may instantly be recognized as belonging to either of the types in question,
even if but a single grain of the opposite quality might be met with on a spike. Kernels can
be counted on the spike, and since ordinary spikes may bear from 300-500 grains and often more,
the numerical relation of the different types may be deduced with great accuracy.

Coming now to our experiment, both starchy [289] and sugary varieties are in this respect wholly
constant, when cultivated separately. No change is to be seen in the spikes. Furthermore it
is very easy to make the crosses. The best way is to cultivate both types in alternate rows
and to cut off the staminate panicles a few days before they open their first flowers. If this
operation is done on all the individuals of one variety, sparing all the panicles of the other,
it is manifest that all the plants will become fertilized by the latter, and hence that the
castrated plants will only bear hybrid seeds.

The experiment may be made in two ways; by castrating the sugary or the starchy variety. In
both cases the hybrid kernels are the same. As to their composition they repeat the active
character of the starchy variety. The sugar is only accumulated as a result of an incapacity
of changing it into starch, and the lack of this capacity is to be considered as a retrogressive
varietal mark. The starch-producing unit character, which is active in the ordinary sorts of
corns, is therefore latent in sugar-corn.

In order to obtain the second generation, the hybrid grains are sown under ordinary conditions,
but sufficiently distant from any other variety of corn to insure pure fertilization. The several
individuals may be left to pollinate [290] each other, or they may be artificially pollinated
with their own pollen.

The outcome of the experiments is shown by the spikes, as soon as they dry. Each spike bears
two sorts of kernels irregularly dispersed over its surface. In this point all the spikes are
alike. On each of them one may see on the first inspection that the majority of the kernels
are starch-containing seeds, while a minor part becomes wrinkled and transparent according
to the rule for sugary seeds. This fact shows at once that the hybrid race is not stable, but
has differentiated the parental characters, bringing those of the varietal parent to perfect
purity and isolation. Whether the same holds good for the starchy parent, it is impossible
to judge from the inspection of the spikes, since it has been seen in the first generation
that the hybrid kernels are not visibly distinguished from those of the pure starch-producing
grains.

It is very easy to count the number of both sorts of grains in the spike of such a hybrid.
In doing so we find, that the proportion is nearly the same on all the spikes, and only slight
variations would be found in hundreds of them. One-fourth of the seeds are wrinkled and three-fourths
are always smooth. The number may vary in single instances and be a little more or a little
less than 25%, ranging, for [291] instance, from 20 to 27%, but as a rule, the average is found
nearly equal to 25%.

The sugary kernels, when separated from the hybrid spikes and sown separately, give rise to
pure sugary race, in no degree inferior in purity to the original variety. But the starchy
kernels are of different types, some of them being internally like the hybrids of the first
generation and others like the original parent. To decide between these two possibilities,
it is necessary to examine their progeny.

For the study of this third hybrid generation we will now take another example, the opium poppies.
They usually have a dark center in the flowers, the inferior parts of the four petals being
stained a deep purple, or often nearly black. Many varieties exhibit this mark as a large black
cross in the center of the flower. In other varieties the pigment is wanting, the cross being
of a pure white. Obviously it is only reduced to a latent condition, as in so many other cases
of loss of color, since it reappears in a hybrid with the parent-species.

For my crosses I have taken the dark-centered "Mephisto" and the "Danebrog," or Danish flag,
with a white cross on a red field. The second year the hybrids were all true to the type of
"Mephisto." From the seeds of each artificially self-fertilized capsule, one-fourth (22.5%)
[292] in each instance reverted to the varietal mark of the white cross, and three-fourths
(77.5%) retained the dark heart. Once more the flowers were self-pollinated and the visits
of insects excluded. The recessives now gave only recessives, and hence we may conclude that
the varietal marks had returned to stability. The dark hearted or dominants behaved in two
different ways. Some of them remained true to their type, all their offspring being dark-hearted.
Evidently they had returned to the parent with the active mark, and had reassumed this type
as purely as the recessives had reached theirs. But others kept true to the hybrid character
of the former generation, repeating in their progeny exactly the same mixture as their parents,
the hybrids of the first generation, had given.

This third generation therefore gives evidence, that the second though apparently showing only
two types, really consists of three different groups. Two of them have reassumed the stability
of their original grandparents, and the third has retained the instability of the hybrid parents.

The question now arises as to the numerical relation of these groups. Our experiments gave
the following results: [293]

    Cross   1. Generation  2. Generation  3. Generation

   Mephisto                               4- 100% Mephisto
          |                              /
          |                             /
          |                 77.5 %  Dom.
          |               /             \
          > --All Mephisto               \
          |               \               9- all hybrids with 83-68%
          |                 22.5 % Rec.    dominants and 17-32%
          |                                 recessives. 100% Danebrog.
   Danebrog

Examining these figures we find one-fourth of constant recessives, as has already been said,
further one-fourth of constant dominants, and the rest or one half as unstable hybrids. Both
of the pure groups have therefore reappeared [293] in the same numbers. Calling A the specimens
with the pure active mark, L those with the latent mark, and H the hybrids, these proportions
may be expressed as follows:

           1A+2H+1L.

This simple law for the constitution of the second generation of varietal hybrids with a single
differentiating mark in their parents is called the law of Mendel. Mendel published it in 1865,
but his paper remained nearly unknown to scientific hybridists. It is only of late years that
it has assumed a high place in scientific literature, and attained the first rank as an investigation
on fundamental questions of heredity. [294] Read in the light of modern ideas on unit characters
it is now one of the most important works on heredity and has already widespread and abiding
influence on the philosophy of hybridism in general.

But from its very nature and from the choice of the material made by Mendel, it is restricted
to balanced or varietal crosses. It assumes pairs of characters and calls the active unit of
the pair dominant, and the latent recessive, without further investigations of the question
of latency. It was worked out by Mendel for a large group of varieties of peas, but it holds
good, with only apparent exceptions, for a wide range of cases of crosses of varietal characters.
Recently many instances have been tested, and even in many cases third and later generations
have been counted, and whenever the evidence was complete enough to be trusted, Mendel's prophecy
has been found to be right.

According to this law of Mendel's the pairs of antagonistic characters in the hybrid split
up in their progeny, some individuals reverting to the pure parental types, some crossing with
each other anew, and so giving rise to a new generation of hybrids. Mendel has given a very
suggestive and simple explanation of his formula. Putting this in the terminology of to-day,
and limiting it to the occurrence of only [295] one differential unit in the parents, we may
give it in the following manner. In fertilization, the characters of both parents are not uniformly
mixed, but remain separated though most intimately combined in the hybrid throughout life.
They are so combined as to work together nearly always, and to have nearly equal influence
on all the processes of the whole individual evolution. But when the time arrives to produce
progeny, or rather to produce the sexual cells through the combination of which the offspring
arises, the two parental characters leave each other, and enter separately into the sexual
cells. From this it may be seen that one-half of the pollen-cells will have the quality of
one parent, and the other the quality of the other. And the same holds good for [296] the egg-cells.
Obviously the qualities lie latent in the pollen and in the egg, but ready to be evolved after
fertilization has taken place.

Granting these premises, we may now ask as to the results of the fertilization of hybrids,
when this is brought about by their own pollen. We assume that numerous pollen grains fertilize
numerous egg cells. This assumption at once allows of applying the law of probability, and
to infer that of each kind of pollen grains one-half will reach egg-cells with the same quality
[297] and the other half ovules with the opposite character.

Calling P pollen and O ovules, and representing the active mark by P and O, the latent qualities
by P' and O', they would combine as follows:

   P + 0 giving uniform pairs with the active mark,
   P  + 0' giving unequal pairs,
   P' + 0  giving unequal pairs,
   P' + 0' giving uniform pairs with the latent mark.

In this combination the four groups are obviously of the same size, each containing one-fourth
of the offspring. Manifestly they correspond exactly to the direct results of the experiments,
P + O representing the individuals which reverted to the specific mark, P' + O' those who reassumed
the varietal quality and P + O' and P + O' those who hybridized [298] for the second time.
These considerations lead us to the following form of Mendel's,

   P + O = 1/4 Active or 1A,

   P + O'
          > = 1/2 Hybrid or 2 H,
   P' + O

   P' + O' = 1/4 Latent or 1 L,

Which is evidently the same as Mendel's empirical law given above.

To give the proof of these assumptions Mendel has devised a very simple crossing experiment,
[299] which he has effected with his varieties of peas. I have repeated it with the sugar-corn,
which gives far better material for demonstration. It starts from the inference that if dissimilarity
among the pollen grains is excluded, the diversity of the ovules must at once became manifest
and vice versa. In other terms, if a hybrid of the first generation is not allowed to fertilize
itself, but is pollinated by one of its parents, the result will be in accordance with the
Mendelian formula.

In order to see an effect on the spikes produced in this way, it is of course necessary to
fertilize them with the pollen of the variety, and not with that of the specific type. The
latter would give partly pure starchy grains and partly hybrid kernels, but these would assume
the same type. But if we pollinate the hybrid with pollen of a pure sugar-corn, we may predict
the result as follows.

If the spike of the hybrid contains dormant paternal marks in one-half of its flowers and in
the other half maternal latent qualities, the sugar-corn pollen will combine with one-half
of the ovules to give hybrids, and with the other half so as to give pure sugar-grains. Hence
we see that it will be possible to count out directly the two groups of ovules on inspecting
the ripe and dry spikes. Experience teaches us [298] that both are present, and in nearly equal
numbers; one-half of the grains remaining smooth, and the other half becoming wrinkled.

The corresponding experiment could be made with plants of a pure sugar-race by pollination
with hybrid pollen. The spikes would show exactly the same mixture as in the above case, but
now this may be considered as conclusive proof that half the pollen-grains represent the quality
of one parent and the other half the quality of the other.

Another corollary of Mendel's law is the following. In each generation two groups return to
purity, and one-half remains hybrid. These last will repeat the same phenomenon of splitting
in their progeny, and it is easily seen that the same rule will hold good for all succeeding
generations. According to Mendel's principle, in each year there is a new hybridization, differing
in no respect from the first and original one. If the hybrids only are propagated, each year
will show one-fourth of the offspring returning to the specific character, one-fourth assuming
the type of the variety and one-half remaining hybrid. I have tested this with a hybrid between
the ordinary nightshade with black berries, and its variety, Solanum nigrum chlorocarpum, with
pale yellow fruits. Eight generations of the hybrids were cultivated, [299] disregarding always
the reverting offspring. At the end I counted the progeny of the sixth and seventh generations
and found figures for their three groups of descendants, which exactly correspond to Mendel's
formula.

Until now we have limited ourselves to the consideration of single differentiating units. This
discussion gives a clear insight into the fundamental phenomena of hybrid fertilization. It
at once shows the correctness of the assumption of unit-characters, and of their pairing in
the sexual combinations.

But Mendel's law is not at all restricted to these simple cases. Quite on the contrary, it
explains the most intricate questions of hybridization, providing they do not transgress the
limits of symmetrical unions. But in this realm nearly all results may be calculated beforehand,
on the ground of the principle of probability. Only one more assumption need be discussed.
The several pairs of antagonistic characters must be independent from, and uninfluenced by,
one another. This premise seems to hold good in the vast majority of cases, though rare exceptions
seem to be not entirely wanting. Hence the necessity of taking all predictions from Mendel's
law only as probabilities, which will prove true in most, but not necessarily in all cases.
[300] But here we will limit ourselves to normal cases.

The first example to be considered is obviously the assumption that the parents of a cross
differ from each other in respect to two characters. A good illustrative example is afforded
by the thorn-apple. I have crossed the blue flowered thorny form, usually known as Datura Tatula,
with the white thornless type, designated as D. Stramonium inermis. Thorns and blue pigment
are obviously active qualities, as they are dominant in the hybrids. In the second generation
both pairs of characters are resolved into their constituents and paired anew according to
Mendel's law. After isolating my hybrids during the period of flowering, I counted among their
progeny:

     128 individuals with blue flowers and thorns
      47 individuals with blue flowers and without thorns
      54 individuals with white flowers and thorns
      21 individuals with white flowers and without thorns
     ----
     250

The significance of these numbers may easily be seen, when we calculate what was to be expected
on the assumption that both characters follow Mendel's law, and that both are independent from
each other. Then we would have three-fourths blue offspring and one-fourth individuals with
white flowers. Each of these [301] two groups would consist of thorn-bearing and thornless
plants, in the same numerical relation. Thus, we come to the four groups observed in our experiment,
and are able to calculate their relative size in the following way:

                                               Proportion
     Blue with thorns  3/4 X 3/4 = 9/16 = 56.25%   9
     Blue, unarmed     3/4 X 1/4 = 3/16 = 18.75%   3
     White with thorns 1/4 X 3/4 = 3/16 = 18.75%   3
     White, unarmed    1/4 X 1/4 = 1/16 =  6.25%   1

In order to compare this inference from Mendel's law and the assumption of independency, with
the results of our experiments, we must calculate the figures of the latter in percentages.
In this way we find:

                             Found      Calculated
        Blue with thorns    128=51%        56.25%
        Blue unarmed         47=19%        18.75%
        White with thorns    54=22%        18.75%
        White unarmed        21= 8%         6.25%

The agreement of the experimental and the theoretical figures is as close as might be expected.

This experiment is to be considered only as an illustrative example of a rule of wide application.
The rule obviously will hold good in all such cases as comply with the two conditions already
premised, viz.: that each character agrees with Mendel's law, and that both are wholly independent
of each other. It is clear that our figures show the numerical composition [302] of the hybrid
offspring for any single instance, irrespective of the morphological nature of the qualities
involved.

Mendel has proved the correctness of these deductions by his experiments with peas, and by
combining their color (yellow or green) with the chemical composition (starch or sugar) and
other pairs of characters. I will now give two further illustrations afforded by crosses of
the ordinary campion. I used the red-flowered or day-campion, which is a perennial herb, and
a smooth variety of the white evening-campion, which flowers as a rule in the first summer.
The combination of flower-color and pubescence gave the following composition for the second
hybrid generation:

                         Number   %  Calculation
     Hairy and red         70    44     56.25%
     Hairy and white       23    14     18.75%
     Smooth and red        46    23     18.75%
     Smooth and white      19    12      6.25%

For the combination of pubescence and the capacity of flowering in the first year I found:

                         Number   %   Calculated
     Hairy, flowering     286    52     56.25%
     Hairy, without stem  128    23     18.75%
     Smooth, flowering     96    17     18.75%
     Smooth, without stem  42     8      6.25%

Many other cases have been tested by different writers and the general result is the [303]
applicability of Mendel's formula to all cases complying with the given conditions.

Intentionally I have chosen for the last example two pairs of antagonisms, relating to the
same pair of plants, and which may be tested in one experiment and combined in one calculation.

For the latter we need only assume the same conditions as mentioned before, but now for three
different qualities. It is easily seen that the third quality would split each of our four
groups into two smaller ones in the proportion of 3/4 : 1/4.

We would then get eight groups of the following composition:

               9/16 X 3/4 = 27/64  or  42.2%
               9/16 X 1/4 =  9/64   "  14.1%
               3/16 X 3/4 =  9/64   "  14.1%
               3/16 X 1/4 =  3/64   "   4.7%
               1/16 X 1/4 =  1/64   "   1.6%

The characters chosen for our experiment include the absence of stem and flowers in the first
year, and therefore would require a second year to determine the flower-color on the perennial
specimens. Instead of doing so I have taken another character, shown by the teeth of the capsules
when opening. These curve outwards [304] in the red campion, but lack this capacity in the
evening-campion, diverging only until an upright position is reached. The combination of hairs,
colors and teeth gives eight groups, and the counting of their respective numbers of individuals
gave the following:

                          Teeth
     Hairs    Flowers  of capsules  Number   %    Calculated

     Hairy      red      curved       91     47     42.2%
     Hairy      red      straight     15     7.5    14.1%
     Hairy     white     curved       23     12     14.1%
     Hairy     white     straight     17     8.5     4.7%
     Smooth     red      curved       23     12     14.1%
     Smooth     red      straight      9     4.5     4.7%
     Smooth    white     curved        5     2.5     4.7%
     Smooth    white     straight     12      6      1.6%

The agreement is as comprehensive as might be expected from an experiment with about 200 plants,
and there can be no doubt that a repetition on a larger scale would give still closer agreement.

In the same way we might proceed to crosses with four or more differentiating characters. But
each new character will double the number of the groups. Four characters will combine into
16 groups, five into 32, six into 64, seven into 128, etc. Hence it is easily seen that the
size of the experiments must be made larger and larger in the same ratio, if we intend to expect
numbers equally trustworthy. For [305] seven differentiating marks 16,384 individuals are required
for a complete series. And in this set the group with the seven attributes all in a latent
condition would contain only a single individual.

Unfortunately the practical value of these calculations is not very great. They indicate the
size of the cultures required to get all the possible combinations, and show that in ordinary
cases many thousands of individuals have to be cultivated, in order to exhaust the whole range
of possibilities. They further show that among all these thousands, only very few are constant
in all their characters; in fact, it may easily be seen that with seven differentiating points
among the 16,384 named above, only one individual will have all the seven qualities in pure
active, and only one will have them all in a purely dormant condition. Then there will be some
with some attributes active and others latent, but their numbers will also be very small. All
others will split up in the succeeding generation in regard to one or more of their apparently
active marks. And since only in very rare cases the stable hybrids can be distinguished by
external characters from the unstable ones, the stability of each individual bearing a desired
combination of characters would have to be established by experiment [306] after pure fertilization.
Mendel's law teaches us to predict the difficulties, but hardly shows any way to avoid them.
It lays great stress on the old prescript of isolation and pure fertilization, but it will
have to be worked out and applied to a large number of practical cases before it will gain
a preeminent influence in horticultural practice.

Or, as Bailey states it, we are only beginning to find a pathway through the bewildering maze
of hybridization.

This pathway is to be laid out with regard to the following considerations. We are not to cross
species or varieties, or even accidental plants. We must cross unit-characters, and consider
the plants only as the bearers of these units. We may assume that these units are represented
in the hereditary substance of the cell-nucleus by definite bodies of too small a size to be
seen, but constituting together the chromosomes. We may call these innermost representatives
of the unit-characters pangenes, in accordance with Darwin's hypothesis of pangenesis, or give
them any other name, or we may even wholly abstain from such theoretical discussion, and limit
ourselves to the conception of the visible character-units. These units then may be present,
or lacking and in the first case active, or latent.

[307] True elementary species differ from each other in a number of unit-characters, which
do not contrast. They have arisen by progressive mutation. One species has one kind of unit,
another species has another kind. On combining these, there can be no interchange. Mendelism
assumes such an interchange between units of the same character, but in a different condition.
Activity and latency are such conditions, and therefore Mendel's law obviously applies to them.
They require pairs of antagonistic qualities, and have no connection whatever with those qualities,
which do not find an opponent in the other parent. Now, only pure varieties afford such pure
conditions. When undergoing further modifications, some of them may be in the progressive line
and others in the retrogressive. Progressive modifications give new units, which are not in
contrast with any other, retrograde changes turn active units into the latent condition and
so give rise to pairs. Ordinary species generally originate in this way, and hence differ from
each other partly in specific, partly in varietal characters. As to the first, they give in
their hybrids stable peculiarities, while as to the latter, they split up according to Mendel's
law.

Unpaired or unbalanced characters lie side by side with paired or balanced qualities, and they
[308] do so in nearly all the crosses made for practical purposes, and in very many scientific
experiments. Even Mendel's peas were not pure in this respect, much less do the campions noted
above differ only in Mendelian characters.

Comparative and systematic studies must be made to ascertain the true nature of every unit
in every single plant, and crossing experiments must be based on these distinctions in order
to decide what laws are applicable in any case.

[309] D. EVER-SPORTING VARIETIES

LECTURE XI

STRIPED FLOWERS

Terminology is an awkward thing. It is as disagreeable to be compelled to make new names, as
to be constrained to use the old faulty ones. Different readers may associate different ideas
with the same terms, and unfortunately this is the case with much of the terminology of the
science of heredity and variability. What are species and what are varieties? How many different
conceptions are conveyed by the terms constancy and variability? We are compelled to use them,
but we are not at all sure that we are rightly understood when we do so.

Gradually new terms arise and make their way. They have a more limited applicability than the
old ones, and are more narrowly circumscribed. They are not to supplant the older terms, but
permit their use in a more general way.

[310] One of these doubtful terms is the word sport. It often means bud-variation, while in
other cases it conveys the same idea as the old botanical term of mutation. But then all sorts
of seemingly sudden variations are occasionally designated by the same term by one writer or
another, and even accidental anomalies, such as teratological ascidia, are often said to arise
by sports.

If we compare all these different conceptions, we will find that their most general feature
is the suddenness and the rarity of the phenomenon. They convey the idea of something unexpected,
something not always or not regularly occurring. But even this demarcation is not universal,
and there are processes that are regularly repeated and nevertheless are called sports. These
at least should be designated by another name.

In order to avoid confusion as far as possible, with the least change in existing terminology,
I shall use the term "ever-sporting varieties" for such forms as are regularly propagated by
seed, and of pure and not hybrid origin, but which sport in nearly every generation. The term
is a new one, but the facts are for the most part new, and require to be considered in a new
light. Its meaning will become clearer at once when the illustrations afforded by [311] striped
flowers are introduced. In the following discussion it will be found most convenient to give
a summary of what is known concerning them, and follow this by a consideration of the detailed
evidence obtained experimentally, which supports the usage cited.

The striped variety of the larkspur of our gardens is known to produce monochromatic flowers,
in addition to striped ones. They may be borne by the same racemes, or on different branches,
or some seedlings from the same parent-plant may bear monochromatic flowers while others may
be striped. Such deviations are usually called sports. But they occur yearly and regularly
and may be observed invariably when the cultures are large enough. Such a variety I shall call
"ever-sporting."

The striped larkspur is one of the oldest garden varieties. It has kept its capacity of sporting
through centuries, and therefore may in some sense be said to be quite stable. Its changes
are limited to a rather narrow circle, and this circle is as constant as the peculiarities
of any other constant species or variety. But within this circle it is always changing from
small stripes to broad streaks, and from them to pure colors. Here the variability is a thing
of absolute constancy, while the constancy consists in eternal changes. Such apparent [312]
contradictions are unavoidable, when we apply the old term to such unusual though not at all
new cases. Combining the stability and the qualities of sports in one word, we may evidently
best express it by the new term of eversporting variety.

We will now discuss the exact nature of such varieties, and of the laws of heredity which govern
them. But before doing so, I might point out, that this new type is a very common one. It embraces
most of the so-called variable types in horticulture, and besides these a wide range of anomalies.

Every ever-sporting variety has at least two different types, around and between which it varies
in numerous grades, but to which it is absolutely limited. Variegated leaves fluctuate between
green and white, or green and yellow, and display these colors in nearly all possible patterns.
But there variability ends, and even the patterns are ordinarily narrowly prescribed in the
single varieties. Double flowers afford a similar instance. On one side the single type, on
the other the nearly wholly double model are the extreme limits, between which the variability
is confined. So it is also with monstrosities. The race consists of anomalous and normal individuals,
and displays between them all possible combinations of normal and monstrous [313] parts. But
its variability is restricted to this group. And large as the group may seem on first inspection,
it is in reality very narrow. Many monstrosities, such as fasciated branches, pitchers, split
leaves, peloric flowers, and others constitute such ever-sporting varieties, repeating their
anomalies year by year and generation after generation, changing as much as possible, but remaining
absolutely true within their limits as long as the variety exists.

It must be a very curious combination of the unit-characters which causes such a state of continuous
variability. The pure quality of the species must be combined with the peculiarity of the variety
in such a way, that the one excludes the other, or modifies it to some extent, although both
never fully display themselves in the same part of the same plant. A corolla cannot be at once
monochromatic and striped, nor can the same part of a stem be twisted and straight. But neighboring
organs may show the opposite attributes side by side.

In order to look closer into the real mechanism of this form of variability, and of this constant
tendency to occasional reversions, it will be best to limit ourselves first to a single case,
and to try to gather all the evidence, which can be obtained by an examination of the hereditary
relations of its sundry constituents.

[314] This may best be done by determining the degree of inheritance for the various constituents
of the race during a series of years. It is only necessary to apply the two precautions of
excluding all cross-fertilization, and of gathering the seeds of each individual separately.
We do not need to ascertain whether the variety as such is permanent; this is already clear
from the simple fact of its antiquity in so many cases. We wish to learn what part each individual,
or each group of individuals with similar characters, play in the common line of inheritance.
In other words, we must build up a genealogical tree, embracing several generations and a complete
set of the single cases occurring within the variety, in order to allow of its being considered
as a part of the genealogy of the whole. It should convey to us an idea of the hereditary relations
during the life-time of the variety.

It is manifest that the construction of such a genealogical tree requires a number of separate
experiments. These should be extended over a series of years. Each should include a number
of individuals large enough to allow the determination of the proportion of the different types
among the offspring of a single plant. A species which is easily fertilized by its own pollen,
and which bears capsules with [315] large quantities of seeds, obviously affords the best opportunities.
As such, I have chosen the common snapdragon of the gardens, Antirrhinum majus. It has many
striped varieties, some tall, others of middle height, or of dwarfed stature. In some the ground-color
of the flowers is yellow, in others it is white, the yellow disappearing, with the exception
of a large mark in the throat. On these ground-colors the red pigment is seen lying in streaks
of pure carmine, with white intervals where the yellow fails, but combined with yellow to make
a fiery red, and with yellow intervals when that color is present. This yellow color is quite
constant and does not vary in any marked degree, notwithstanding the fact that it seems to
make narrower and broader stripes, according to the parts of the corolla left free by the red
pigment. But it is easily seen that this appearance is only a fallacious one.

The variety of snapdragon chosen was of medium height and with the yellow ground-color, and
is known by horticulturists as A. majus luteum rubro-striatum. As the yellow tinge showed itself
to be invariable; I may limit my description to the red stripes.

Some flowers of this race are striped, others are not. On a hasty survey there seem to be three
types, pure yellow, pure red, and stripes [316] with all their intermediate links of narrower
and broader, fewer and more numerous streaks. But on a close inspection one does not succeed
in finding pure yellow racemes. Little lines of red may be found on nearly every flower. They
are the extreme type on this side of the range of variability. From them an almost endless
range of patterns passes over to the broadest stripes and even to whole sections of a pure
red. But then, between these and the wholly red flowers we observe a gap, which may be narrower
by the choice of numerous broad striped individuals, but which is never wholly filled up. Hence
we see that the red flowers are a separate type within the striped variety.

This red type springs yearly from the striped form, and yearly reverts to it. This is what
in the usual descriptions of this snapdragon, is called its sporting. The breadth of the streaks
is considered to be an ordinary case of variability, but the red flowers appear suddenly, without
the expected links. Therefore they are to be considered as sports. Similarly the red forms
may suddenly produce striped ones, and this too is to be taken as a sport, according to the
usual conception of the word.

Such sports may occur in different ways. Either by seeds, or by buds, or even within the single
spikes. Both opposite reversions, [317] from striped to red and from red to stripes, occur
by seed, even by the strictest exclusion of cross-fertilization. As far as my experiments go,
they are the rule, and parent-plants that do not give such reversions, at least in some of
their offspring, are very rare, if not wholly wanting. Bud-variations and variations within
the spike I have as yet only observed on the striped individuals, and never on the red ones,
though I am confident that they might appear in larger series of experiments. Both cases are
more common on individuals with broad stripes than on plants bearing only the narrower red
lines, as might be expected, but even on the almost purely yellow individuals they may be seen
from time to time. Bud-variations produce branches with spikes of uniform red flowers. Every
bud of the plant seems to have equal chances to be transformed in this way. Some striped racemes
bear a few red flowers, which ordinarily are inserted on one side of the spike only. As they
often cover a sharply defined section of the raceme, this circumstance has given rise to the
term of sectional variability to cover such cases. Sometimes the section is demarcated on the
axis of the flower-spike by a brownish or reddish color, sharply contrasting with the green
hue of the remaining parts. Sectional variation may be looked at as a [318] special type of
bud-variation, and from this point of view we may simplify our inquiry and limit ourselves
to the inheritance of three types, the striped plants, the red plants and the red asexual variants
of the striped individuals. In each case the heredity should be observed not only for one,
but at least for two successive generations.

Leaving these introductory remarks I now come at once to the genealogical tree, as it may be
deduced from my experiments:

   Year
   1896                 95% Striped            84% Red
                             |                    |
   1895               Striped Individual      Red Indiv.
                                    \        /
   1895         98% Striped           71% Red
                   |                     |
   1894    Striped branches.      Red branches.
                           \      /
   1894                  98% Striped               76% Red
                              |                       |
   1893                 90% Striped Indiv.      10% Red Indiv.
                                         \      /
   1892                              Striped Individual

This experiment was begun in the year 1892 with one individual out of a large lot of striped
plants grown from seeds which I had purchased from a firm in Erfurt. The capsules were gathered
separately from this individual and about 40 flowering plants were obtained from the seeds
in the following year. Most of them had neatly striped flowers, some displayed broader stripes
and spare flowers were seen with one [319] half wholly red. Four individuals were found with
only uniform red flowers. These were isolated and artificially pollinated, and the same was
done with some of the best striped individuals. The seeds from every parent were sown separately,
so as to allow the determination of the proportion of uniform red individuals in the progeny.

Neither group was constant in its offspring. But as might be expected, the type of the parent
plant prevailed in both groups, and more strongly so in the instances with the striped, than
with the red ones. Or, in other words seed-reversions were more numerous among the already
reverted reds than among the striped type itself. I counted 2% reversion in the latter case,
but 24% from the red parents.

Among the striped plants from the striped parents, I found some that produced bud variations.
I succeeded in isolating these red flowering branches in paper bags and in pollinating them
with their own pollen, and subjected the striped spikes of the same individuals to a similar
treatment. Three individuals gave a sufficient harvest from both types, and these six lots
of seeds were sown separately. The striped flowers repeated their character in 98% of their
offspring, the red twigs in only 71%, the [320] remaining individuals sporting into the opposite
group.

In the following year I continued the experiment with the seeds of the offspring of the red
bud-variations. The striped individuals gave 95%, but in the red ones only 84% of the progeny
remained true to the parent type.

From these figures it is manifest that the red and striped types differ from one another not
only in their visible attributes, but also in the degree of their heredity. The striped individuals
repeat their peculiarity in 90-98% of their progeny, 2-10% sporting into the uniform red color.
On the other hand the red individuals are constant in 71-84% of their offspring, while 16-29%
go over to the striped type. Or, briefly, both types are inherited to a high degree, but the
striped type is more strictly inherited than the red one.

Moreover the figures show that the degree of inheritance is not contingent upon the question
as to how the sport may have arisen. Bud-sports show the same degree of inheritance as seed-sports.
Sexual and asexual variability therefore seem to be one and the same process in this instance.
But the deeper meaning of this and other special features of our genealogical tree are still
awaiting further investigation. It seems that much important evidence might [321] come from
an extension of this line of work. Perhaps it might even throw some light on the intimate nature
of the bud-variations of ever-sporting varieties in general. Sectional variations remain to
be tested as to the degree of inheritance exhibited, and the different occurrences as to the
breadth of the streaks require similar treatment.

In ordinary horticultural practice it is desirable to give some guarantee as to what may be
expected to come from the seeds of brightly striped flowers. Neither the pure red type, nor
the nearly yellow racemes are the object of the culture, as both of them may be had pure from
their, own separate varieties. In order to insure proper striping, both extremes are usually
rejected and should be rooted out as soon as the flowering period begins. Similarly the broad-striped
ones should be rejected, as they give a too large amount of uniform red flowers. Clearly, but
not broadly striped individuals always yield the most reliable seed.

Summing up once more the results of our pedigree-experiment, we may assert that the striped
variety of the snapdragon is wholly permanent, including the two opposite types of uniform
color and of stripes. It must have been so since it first originated from the invariable uniform
[322] varieties, about the middle of the last century, in the nursery of Messrs. Vilmorin,
and probably it will remain so as long as popular taste supports its cultivation. It has never
been observed to transgress its limits or to sport into varieties without reversions or sports.
It fluctuates from one extreme to the other yearly, always recurring in the following year,
or even in the same summer by single buds. Highly variable within its limits, it is absolutely
constant or permanent, when considered as a definite group.

Similar cases occur not rarely among cultivated plants. In the wild state they seem to be wholly
wanting. Neither are they met with as occasional anomalies nor as distinct varieties. On the
contrary, many garden-flowers that are colored in the species, and besides this have a white
or yellow variety, have also striped sorts. The oldest instance is probably the marvel of Peru,
Mirabilis Jalappa, which already had more than one striped variety at the time of its introduction
from Peru into the European gardens, about the beginning of the seventeenth century. Stocks,
liver-leaf (Hepatica), dame's violet (Hesperis), Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus), and periwinkles
(Vinca minor) seem to be in the same condition, as their striped varieties were already quoted
[323] by the writers of the same century. Tulips, hyacinths, Cyclamen, Azalea, Camellia, and
even such types of garden-plants as the meadow crane's-bill (Geranium pratensev) have striped
varieties. It is always the red or blue color which occurs in stripes, the underlying ground
being white or yellow, according to the presence or absence of the yellow in the original color
mixture.

All these varieties are known to be permanent, coming true during long series of successive
generations. But very little is known concerning the more minute details of their hereditary
qualities. They come from seed, when this is taken from striped individuals, and thence revert
from time to time to the corresponding monochromatic type. But whether they would do so when
self-fertilized, and whether the reversionary individuals are always bound to return towards
the center of the group or towards the opposite limit, remains to be investigated. Presumably
there is nowhere a real transgression of the limits, and never or only very rarely and at long
intervals of time a true production of another race with other hereditary qualities.

In order to satisfy myself on these points, I made some pedigree-cultures with the striped
forms of dame's violet (Hesperis matronalis) [324] and of Clarkia pulchella. Both of them are
ever-sporting varieties. The experiments were conducted during five generations with the violet,
and during four with the striped Clarkia, including the progeny of the striped and of the monochromatic
red offspring of a primitive striped plant. I need not give the figures here for the numerical
relations between the different types of each group, and shall limit myself to the statement
that they behaved in exactly the same manner as the snapdragon.

It is worth while to dwell a moment on the capacity of the individuals with red flowers to
reproduce the striped type among their offspring. For it is manifest that this latter quality
must have lain dormant in them during their whole life. Darwin has already pointed out that
when a character of a grandparent, which is wanting in the progeny, reappears in the second
generation, this quality must always be assumed to have been present though latent in the intermediate
generation. To the many instances given by him of such alternative inheritance, the monochromatic
reversionists of the striped varieties are to be added as a new type. It is moreover, a very
suggestive type, since the latency is manifestly of quite another character than for instance
in the case of Mendelian hybrids, and probably more allied to those instances, [325] where
secondary sexual marks, which are as a rule only evolved by one sex, are transferred to the
offspring through the other.

Stripes are by no means limited to flowers. They may affect the whole foliage, or the fruits
and the seeds, and even the roots. But all such cases occur much more rarely than the striped
flowers. An interesting instance of striped roots is afforded by radishes. White and red varieties
of different shapes are cultivated. Besides them sometimes a curious motley sort may be seen
in the markets, which is white with red spots, which are few and narrow in some samples, and
more numerous and broader in others. But what is very peculiar and striking is the circumstance,
that these stripes do not extend in a longitudinal, but in a transverse direction. Obviously
this must be the effect of the very notable growth in thickness. Assuming that the colored
regions were small in the beginning, they must have been drawn out during the process of thickening
of the root, and changed into transverse lines. Rarely a streak may have had its greatest extension
in a transverse direction from the beginning, in which case it would only be broadened and
not definitely changed in its direction.

This variety being a very fine one, and more agreeable to the eye than the uniform colors,
is [326] being more largely cultivated in some countries. It has one great drawback: it never
comes wholly true from seed. It may be grown in full isolation, and carefully selected, all
red or nearly monochromatic samples being rooted out long before blooming, but nevertheless
the seed will always produce some red roots. The most careful selection, pursued through a
number of years, has not been sufficient to get rid of this regular occurrence of reversionary
individuals. Seed-growers receive many complaints from their clients on this account, but they
are not able to remove the difficulty. This experience is in full agreement with the experimental
evidence given by the snapdragon, and it would certainly be very interesting to make a complete
pedigree-culture with the radishes to test definitely their compliance with the rules observed
for striped flowers.

Horticulturists in such cases are in the habit of limiting themselves to the sale of so-called
mixed seeds. From these no client expects purity, and the normal and hereditary diversity of
types is here in some sense concealed under the impurities included in the mixture from lack
of selection. Such cases invite scrutiny, and would, no doubt, with the methods of isolation,
artificial pollination, and the sowing of the seeds separately from each parent, yield [327]
results of great scientific value. Any one who has a garden, and sufficient perseverance to
make pure cultures during a series of years might make important contributions to scientific
knowledge in this way.

Choice might be made from among a wide range of different types. A variety of corn called "Harlequin"
shows stripes on its kernels, and one ear may offer nearly white and nearly red seeds and all
the possible intermediate steps between them. From these seeds the next generation will repeat
the motley ears, but some specimens will produce ears of uniform kernels of a dark purple,
showing thus the ordinary way of reversion. Some varieties of beans have spotted seeds, and
among a lot of them one may be sure to find some purely red ones. It remains to be investigated
what will be their offspring, and whether they are due to partial or to individual variation.

The cockscomb (Celosia cristata) has varieties of nearly all colors from white and yellow to
red and orange, and besides them some striped varieties occur in our gardens, with the stripes
going from the lower parts of the stem up to the very crest of the comb. They are on sale as
constant varieties, but nothing has as yet been recorded concerning their peculiar behavior
in the inheritance of the stripes. [328] Striped grapes, apples and other fruits might be mentioned
in this connection.

Before leaving the striped varieties, attention is called to an interesting deduction, which
probably gives an explanation of one of the most widely known instances of ever-sporting garden
plants. Striped races always include two types. Both of them are fertile, and each of them
reproduces in its offspring both its own and the alternate type. It is like a game of ball,
in which the opposing parties always return the ball. But now suppose that only one of the
types were fertile and the other for some reason wholly sterile, and assume the reversionary,
or primitive monochromatic individuals to be fertile, and the derivative striped specimens
to bloom without seed. If this were the case, knowledge concerning the hereditary qualities
would be greatly limited. In fact the whole pedigree would be reduced to a monochromatic strain,
which would in each generation sport in some individuals into the striped variety. But, being
sterile, they would not be able to propagate themselves.

Such seems to be the case with the double flowered stocks. Their double flowers produce neither
stamens nor pistils, and as each individual is either double or single in all its flowers,
the doubles are wholly destitute of seed. [329] Nevertheless, they are only reproduced by seed
from single flowers, being an annual or biennial species.

Stocks are a large family, and include a wonderful variety of colors, ranging from white and
yellow to purple and red, and with some variations toward blue. They exhibit also diversity
in the habit of growth. Some are annuals, including the ten-week and pyramidal forms; others
are intermediates and are suitable for pot-culture; and the biennial sorts include the well-known
"Brompton" and "Queen" varieties. Some are large and others are small or dwarf. For their brightness,
durability and fragrance, they are deservedly popular. There are even some striped varieties.
Horticulturists and amateurs generally know that seed can be obtained from single stocks only,
and that the double flowers never produce any. It is not difficult to choose single plants
that will produce a large percentage of double blossoms in the following generation. But only
a percentage, for the experiments of the most skilled growers have never enabled them to save
seed, which would result entirely in double flowering plants. Each generation in its turn is
a motley assembly of singles and doubles.

Before looking closer into the hereditary peculiarities of this old and interesting ever-sporting
[330] variety, it may be as well to give a short description of the plants with double flowers.
Generally speaking there are two principal types of doubles. One is by the conversion of stamens
into petals, and the other is an anomaly, known under the name of petalomany.

The change of stamens into petals is a gradual modification. All intermediate steps are easily
to be found. In some flowers all stamens may be enlarged, in others only part of them. Often
the broadened filaments bear one or two fertile anthers. The fertility is no doubt diminished,
but not wholly destroyed. Individual specimens may occur, which cannot produce any seed, but
then others of the same lot may be as fertile as can be desired. As a whole, such double varieties
are regularly propagated by seed.

Petalomany is the tendency of the axis of some flowers never to make any stamens or pistils,
not even in altered or rudimentary form. Instead of these, they simply continue producing petals,
going on with this production without any other limit than the supply of available food. Numerous
petals fill the entire space within the outer rays, and in the heart of the flower innumerable
young ones are developed half-way, not obtaining food enough to attain [331] full size. Absolute
sterility is the natural consequence of this state of things.

Hence it is impossible to have races of petalomanous types. If the abnormality happens to show
itself in a species, which normally propagates itself in an asexual way, the type may become
a vegetative variety, and be multiplied by bulbs, buds or cuttings, etc. Some cultivated anemones
and crowfoots (Ranunculus) are of this character, and even the marsh-marigold (Caltha palustris)
has a petalomanous variety. I once found in a meadow such a form of the meadow-buttercup (Ranunculus
acris), and succeeded in keeping it in my garden for several years, but it did not make seeds
and finally died. Camellias are known to have both types of double flowers. The petalomanous
type is highly regular in structure, so much so as to be too uniform in all its parts to be
pleasing, while the conversion of stamens into petals in the alternative varieties gives to
these flowers a more lively diversity of structure. Lilies have a variety called Lilium candidum
flore pleno, in which the flowers seem to be converted into a long spike of bright, white narrow
bracts, crowded on an axis which never seems to cease their production.

It is manifestly impossible to decide how all such sterile double flowers have originated.
[332] Perhaps each of them originally had a congruent single-flowered form, from which it was
produced by seed in the same way as the double stocks now are yearly. If this assumption is
right, the corresponding fertile line is now lost; it has perhaps died out, or been masked.
But it is not absolutely impossible that such strains might one day be discovered for one or
another of these now sterile varieties.

Returning to the stocks we are led to the conception that some varieties are absolutely single,
while others consist of both single-flowered and double-flowered individuals. The single varieties
are in respect to this character true to the original wild type. They never give seed which
results in doubles, providing all intercrossing is excluded. The other varieties are ever-sporting,
in the sense of this term previously assumed, but with the restriction that the sports are
exclusively one-sided, and never return, owing to their absolute sterility.

The oldest double varieties of stocks have attained an age of a century and more. During all
this time they have had a continuous pedigree of fertile and single-flowered individuals, throwing
off in each generation a definite number of doubles. This ratio is not at all dependent on
chance or accident, nor is it even variable to a remarkable degree. Quite on the contrary [333]
it is always the same, or nearly the same, and it is to be considered as an inherent quality
of the race. If left to themselves, the single individuals always produce singles and doubles
in the same quantity; if cultivated after some special method, the proportion may be slightly
changed, bringing the proportion of doubles up to 60% or even more.

Ordinarily the single and double members of such a race are quite equal in the remainder of
their attributes, especially in the color of their flowers. But this is not always the case.
The colors of such a race may repeat for themselves the peculiarities of the ever-sporting
characters. It often happens that one color is more or less strictly allied to the doubles,
and another to the singles. This sometimes makes it difficult to keep the various colors true.
There are certain sorts, which invariably exhibit a difference in color between the single
and the double flowers. The sulphur-yellow varieties may be adduced as illustrative examples,
because in them the single flowers always come white. Hence in saving seed, it is impossible
so to select the plant, that an occasional white does not also appear among the double flowers,
agreeing in this deviation with the general rule of the eversporting varieties.

I commend all the above instances to those [334] who wish to make pedigree-cultures. The cooperation
of many is needed to bring about any notable advancement, since the best way to secure isolation
is to restrict one's self to the culture of one strain, so as to avoid the intermixture of
others. So many facts remain doubtful and open to investigation, that almost any lot of purchased
seed may become the starting point for interesting researches. Among these the sulphur-yellow
varieties should be considered in the first place.

In respect to the great questions of heredity, the stocks offer many points of interest. Some
of these features I will now try to describe, in order to show what still remains to be done,
and in what manner the stocks may clear the way for the study of the ever-sporting varieties.

The first point, is the question, which seeds become double-flowered and which single-flowered
plants? Beyond all doubt, the determination has taken place before the ripening of the seed.
But though the color of the seed is often indicative of the color of the flowers, as in some
red or purple varieties, and though in balsams and some other instances the most "highly doubled"
flowers are to be obtained from the biggest and plumpest seeds, no such rule seems to exist
respecting the double stocks. Now if one half of the seeds gives doubles, and [335] the other
half singles, the question arises, where are the singles and the doubles to be found on the
parent-plant?

The answer is partly given by the following experiment. Starting from the general rule of the
great influence of nutrition on variability, it may be assumed that those seeds will give most
doubles, that are best fed. Now it is manifest that the stem and larger branches are, in a
better condition than the smaller twigs, and that likewise the first fruits have better chances
than the ones formed later. Even in the same pod the uppermost seeds will be in a comparatively
disadvantageous position. This conception leads to an experiment which is the basis of a practical
method much used in France in order to get a higher percentage of seeds of double-flowering plants.

This method consists in cutting off, in the first place the upper parts of all the larger spikes,
in the second place, the upper third part of each pod, and lastly all the small and weak twigs.
In doing so the percentage is claimed to go up to 67-70%, and in some instances even higher.
This operation is to be performed as soon as the required number of flowers have ceased blossoming.
All the nutrient materials, destined for the seeds, are now forced to flow into these relatively
few embryos, and it is clear that [336] they will be far better nourished than if no operation
were made.

In order to control this experiment some breeders have made the operation on the fruits when
ripe, instead of on the young pods, and have saved the seeds from the upper parts separately.
This seed, produced in abundance, was found to be very poor in double flowers, containing only
some 20-30%. On the contrary the percentage of doubles in the seed of the lower parts was somewhat
augmented, and the average of both would have given the normal proportion of 50%.

Opposed to the French method is the German practice of cultivating stocks, as I have seen it
used on a very large scale at Erfurt and at other places. The stocks are grown in pots on small
scaffolds, and not put on or into the earth. The obvious aim of this practice is to keep the
earth in the pots dry, and accordingly they are only scantily watered. In consequence they
cannot develop as fully as they would have done when planted directly in the beds, and they
produce only small racemes and no weak twigs, eliminating thereby without further operation
the weaker seeds as by the French method. The effect is increased by planting from 6-10 separate
plants in each pot.

It would be very interesting to make comparative [337] trials of both methods, in order to
discover the true relation between the practice and the results reached. Bath should also be
compared with cultures on open plots, which are said to give only 50% of doubles. This last
method of culture is practiced wherever it is desired to produce great quantities of seeds
at a low cost. Such trials would no doubt give an insight into the relations of hereditary
characters to the distribution of the food within the plant.

A second point is the proportional increase of the double-flowering seeds with age. If seed
is kept for two or three years, the greater part of the grains will gradually die, and among
the remainder there is found on sowing, a higher percentage of double ones. Hence we may infer
that the single-flowered seeds are shorter lived than the doubles, and this obviously points
to a greater weakness of the first. It is quite evident that there is some common cause for
these facts and for the above cited experience, that the first and best pods give more doubles.
Much, however, remains to be investigated before a satisfactory answer can be made to these
questions.

A third point is the curious practice, called by the French "esimpler," and which consists
in pulling out the singles when very young. It seems to be done at an age when the flower-buds
[338] are not yet visible, or at least are not far enough developed to show the real distinctive
marks. Children may be employed to choose and destroy the singles. There are some slight differences
in the fullness and roundness of the buds and the pubescence of the young leaves. Moreover
the buds of the doubles are said to be sweeter to the taste than those of the singles. But
as yet I have not been able to ascertain, whether any scientific investigation of this process
has ever been made, though according to some communications made to me by the late Mr. Cornu,
the practice seems to be very general in the environs of Paris. In summer large fields may
be seen, bearing exclusively double flowers, owing to the weeding out of the singles long before
flowering.

Bud-variation is the last point to be taken up. It seems to be very rare with stocks, but some
instances have been recorded in literature. Darwin mentions a double stock with a branch bearing
single flowers, and other cases are known to have occurred. But in no instance does the seed
of such a bud-variant seem to have been saved. Occasionally other reversions also occur. From
time to time specimens appear with more luxurious growth and with divergent instead of erect
pods. They are called, in Erfurt, "generals" on account [339] of their stiff and erect appearance,
and they are marked by more divergent horns crowning the pods. They are said to produce only
a relatively small number of doubles from their seeds, and even this small number might be
due to fertilization with pollen of their neighbors. I saw some of these reversionary types;
when inspecting the nurseries of Erfurt, but as they are, as a rule, thrown out before ripening
their seed, nothing is exactly known about their real hereditary qualities.

Much remains to be cleared up, but it seems that one of the best means to find a way through
the bewildering maze of the phenomena of inheritance, is to make groups of related forms and
to draw conclusions from a comparison of the members of such groups. Such comparisons must
obviously give rise to questions, which in their turn will directly lead to experimental investigation.

[340]

LECTURE XII

FIVE-LEAVED CLOVER

Every one knows the "four-leaved" clover. It is occasionally found on lawns, in pastures and
by the roadsides. Specimens with five leaflets may be found now and then in the same place,
or on the same plant, but these are rarer. I have often seen isolated plants with quaternate
leaves, but only rarely have I observed individuals with more than one such leaf.

The two cases are essentially dissimilar. They may appear to differ but little morphologically,
but from the point of view of heredity they are quite different. Isolated quaternate leaves
are of but little interest, while the occurrence of many on the same individual indicates a
distinct variety. In making experiments upon this point it is necessary to transplant the divergent
individuals to a garden in order to furnish them proper cultural conditions and to keep them
under constant observation. When a plant bearing a quaternate leaf is thus transplanted however,
it rarely repeats the [341] anomaly. But when plants with two or more quaternate leaves on
the same individual are chosen it indicates that it belongs to a definite race, which under
suitable conditions may prove to become very rich in the anomalies in question.

Obviously it is not always easy to decide definitely whether a given individual belongs to
such a race or not. Many trials may be necessary to secure the special race. I had the good
fortune to find two plants of clover, bearing one quinate and several quaternate leaves, on
an excursion in the neighborhood of Loosdrecht in Holland. After transplanting them into my
garden, I cultivated them during three years and observed a slowly increasing number of anomalous
leaves. This number in one summer amounted to 46 quaternate and 16 quinate leaves, and it was
evident that I had secured an instance of the rare "five-leaved" race which I am about to describe.

Before doing so it seems desirable to look somewhat closer into the morphological features
of the problem. Pinnate and palmate leaves often vary in the number of their parts. This variability
is generally of the nature of a common fluctuation, the deviations grouping themselves around
an average type in the ordinary way. Ash leaves bear five pairs, and [342] the mountain-ash
(Sorbus Aucuparia) has six pairs of leaflets in addition to the terminal one. But this number
varies slightly, the weaker leaves having less, the stronger more pairs than the average. Such
however, is not the case, with ternate leaves, which seem to be quite constant. Four leaflets
occur so very rarely that one seems justified in regarding them rather as an anomaly than,
as a fluctuation. And this is confirmed by the almost universal absence of two-bladed clover-leaves.

Considering the deviation as an anomaly, we may look into its nature. Such an inquiry shows
that the supernumerary leaflets owe their origin to a splitting of one or more of the normal
ones. This splitting is not terminal, as is often the case with other species, and as it may
be seen sometimes in the clover. It is for the most part lateral. One of the lateral nerves
grows out becoming a median nerve of the new leaflet. Intermediate steps are not wanting, though
rare, and they show a gradual separation of some lateral part of a leaflet, until this division
reaches the base and divides the leaflet into two almost equal parts. If this splitting occurs
in one leaflet we get the "four-leaved" Clover, if it occurs in two there will be five leaflets.
And if, besides this, the terminal leaflet produces a derivative on one or both of its sides,
[343] we obtain a crown of six or seven leaflets on one stalk. Such were often met with in
the race I had under cultivation, but as a rule it did not exceed this limit.

The same phenomenon of a lateral doubling of leaflets may of course be met with in other instances.
The common laburnum has a variety which often produces quaternate and quinate leaves, and in
strawberries I have also seen instances of this abnormality. It occurs also in pinnate leaves,
and complete sets of all the intermediate links may often be found on the false or bastard-acacia
(Robinia PseudAcacia).

Opposed to this increase of the number of leaflets, and still more rare and more curious is
the occurrence of "single-leaved" varieties among trees and herbs with pinnate or ternate leaves.
Only very few instances have been described, and are cultivated in gardens. The ashes and the
bastard-acacia may be quoted among trees, and the "one-leaved" strawberry among herbs. Here
it seems that several leaflets have been combined into one, since this one is, as a rule, much
larger than the terminal leaflet of an ordinary leaf of the same species. These monophyllous
varieties are interesting also on account of their continuous but often incomplete reversion
to the normal type.

[344] Pinnate and palmate leaves are no doubt derivative types. They must have originated from
the ordinary simple leaf. The monophylly may therefore be considered as a reversion to a more
primitive state and the monophyllous varieties may be called atavistic.

On the other hand we have seen that these atavistic varieties may revert to their nearest progenitors,
and this leads to the curious conception of positive and negative atavism. For if the change
of compound leaves into single ones is a retrograde or negative step, the conversion of single
or ternate leaves into pinnate and palmate ones must evidently be considered in this case as
positive atavism.

This discussion seems to throw some light on the increase of leaflets in the clover. The pea
family, or the group of papilionaceous plants, has pinnate leaves ordinarily, which, according
to our premises, must be considered as a derivative type. In the clovers and their allies this
type reverts halfway to the single form, producing only three leaflets on each stalk. If now
the clover increases its number of leaflets, this may be considered as a reversion to its nearest
progenitors, the papilionaceous plants with pinnate leaves. Hence a halfway returning and therefore
positive atavism. And as I have already mentioned in a former lecture, pinnate [345] leaves
are also sometimes produced by my new race of clover.

Returning to the original plants of this race, it is evidently impossible to decide whether
they were really the beginning of a new strain, and had originated themselves by some sudden
change from the common type, or whether they belonged to an old variety, which had propagated
itself perhaps during centuries, unobserved by man. But the same difficulty generally arises
when new varieties are discovered. Even the behavior of the plants themselves or of their progeny
does not afford any means of deciding the question. The simplest way of stating the matter
therefore, is to say that I accidentally found two individuals of the "five-leaved" race. By
transplanting them into my garden, I have isolated them and kept them free from cross-fertilization
with the ordinary type. Moreover, I have brought them under such conditions as are necessary
for the full development of their characters. And last but not least, I have tried to improve
this character as far as possible by a very rigid and careful selection.

The result of all this effort has been a rapid improvement of my strain. I saved the seed of
the original plants in 1889 and cultivated the second generation in the following year. It
[346] showed some increase of the anomaly, but not to a very remarkable degree. In the flowering
period I selected four plants with the largest number of quaternate and quinate leaves and
destroyed all the others. I counted in the average 25 anomalous organs on each of them. From
their seed I raised the third generation of my culture in the year 1891.

This generation included some 300 plants, on which above 8,000 leaves were counted. More than
1,000 were quaternate or quinate, the ternate leaves being still in the majority. But the experiment
clearly showed that "four-leaved" clovers may be produced in any desired quantity, provided
that the seed of the variety is available. In the summer only three, four and five leaflets
on one stalk were seen, but towards the fall, and after the selection of the best individuals,
this number increased and came up to six and seven in some rare instances.

The selection in this year was by no means easy. Nearly all the individuals produced at least
some quaternate leaves, and thereby showed the variety to be quite pure. I counted the abnormal
organs on a large group of the best plants, and selected 20 excellent specimens from them,
with more than one-third of all their leaves changed in the desired manner. Having brought
my race up to this point, I [347] was able to introduce a new and far more easy mark, afforded
by the seedlings, for my selections. This mark has since remained constant, and has brought
about a rapid continuance of the improvement, without necessitating such large cultures.

This seedling in the various species of clover usually begins with a first leaf above the cotyledons
of a different structure from those that follow. It has only one blade instead of three. But
in my variety the increase of the number of the leaflets may extend to these primary organs,
and make them binate or even ternate. Now it is obvious that an individual, which begins with
a divided primary leaf, will have a greater tendency to produce a large number of supernumerary
leaflets than a plant which commences in the ordinary way. Or in other words, the primary leaves
afford a sure criterion for the selection, and this selection may be made in the seed-pans.
In consequence, no young individual with an undivided primary leaf was planted out. Choosing
the 20 or 30 best specimens in the seed-pan, no further selection was required, and the whole
lot could be left to cross-fertilization by insects.

The observation of this distinguishing mark in the young seedlings has led to the discovery
of another quality as a starting-paint for further [348] selection. According to the general
rule of pedigree-culture, the seeds of each individual plant are always saved and sowed separately.
This is done even with such species as the clover, which are infertile when self-pollinated,
and which are incapable of artificial pollination on the required scale, since each flower
produces only one seed. My clover was always left free to be pollinated by insects. Obviously
this must have led to a diminution of the differentiating characters of the individual plants.
But this does not go far enough to obliterate the differences, and the selection made among
the seedlings will always throw out at least a large part of those that have suffered from
the cross.

Leaving this discussion, we may inquire closer into the nature of the new criterion afforded
by the seedlings. Two methods present themselves. First, the choice of the best seedlings.
In the second place it becomes possible to compare the parent-plants by counting the number
of deviating seedlings. This leads to the establishment of a percentage for every single parent,
and gives data for comparisons. Two or three hundreds of seeds from a parent may easily be
grown in one pan, and in this way a sufficiently high degree of accuracy may be reached. Only
those parents that give [349] the highest percentage are chosen, and among their progeny only
the seedlings with trifoliolate primary leaves are planted out. The whole procedure of the
selection is by this means confined to the glasshouse during the spring, and the beds need
not be large, nor do they require any special care during the summer.

By this method I brought my strain within two years up to an average of nearly 90% of the seedlings
with a divided primary leaf. Around this average the real numbers fluctuated between the maximum
of 99% and the minimum of 70% or thereabouts. This condition was reached by the sixth generation
in the year 1894, and has since proved to be the limit, the group of figures remaining practically
the same during all the succeeding generations.

Such selected plants are very rich in leaves with four, five and six blades. Excluding the
small leaves at the tops of the branches, and those on the numerous weaker side-branches, these
three groups include the large majority of all the stronger leaves. In summer the range is
wider, and besides many trifoliolate leaves the curiously shaped seven-bladed ones are not
at all rare. In the fall and in the winter the range of variability is narrowed, and at first
sight the plants often seem to bear only quinquefoliolate leaves.

[350] I have cultivated a new generation of this race nearly every year since 1894, using always
the strictest selection. This has led to a uniform type, but has not been adequate to produce
any further improvement. Obviously the extreme limit, under the conditions of climate and soil,
has been reached. This extreme type is always dependent upon repeated selection. No constant
variety, in the older sense, has been obtained, nor was any indication afforded that such a
type might ever be produced. On the contrary, it is manifest that the new form belongs to the
group of ever-sporting varieties. It is never quite free from the old atavistic type of the
trifoliolate leaves, and invariably, when external conditions become less favorable, this atavistic
form is apt to gain dominion over the more refined varietal character. Reversions always occur,
both partial and individual.

Some instances of these reversions may now be given. They are not of such a striking character
as those of the snapdragon. Intermediate steps are always occurring, both in the leaves themselves,
and in the percentages of deviating seedlings of the several parent plants.

On normal plants of my variety the quinquefoliolate leaves usually compose the majority, when
there are no weak lateral branches, or when they are left out of consideration. Next [351]
to these come the fours and the sixes, while the trifoliolate and seven-bladed types are nearly
equal in number. But out of a lot of plants, grown from seed of the same parent, it is often
possible to choose some in which one extreme prevails, and others with a preponderating number
of leaves with the other extreme number of leaflets. If seed from these extremes are saved
separately, one strain, that with numerous seven-bladed leaves will remain true to the type,
but the other will diverge more or less, producing leaves with a varying number of subdivisions.

Very few generations of such opposite selection are required to reduce the race to an utterly
poor one. In three years I was able to nearly obliterate the type of my variety. I chose the
seedlings with an undivided primary leaf, cultivated them and counted their offspring separately
after the sowing. I found some parents with only 2-3% of seedlings with divided primary leaves.
And by a repeated selection in this retrograde direction I succeeded in getting a great number
of plants, which during the whole summer made only very few leaves with more than three blades.
But an absolute reversion could no more be reached in this direction than in the normal one.
Any sowing without selection would be [352] liable to reduce the strain to an average condition.

The production of varietal and of atavistic leaves is dependent to a high degree on external
conditions. It agrees with the general rule, that favorable circumstances strengthen the varietal
peculiarities, while unfavorable conditions increase the number of the parts with the atavistic
attribute. These influences may be seen to have their effect on the single individuals, as
well as on the generations growing from their seed. I cannot cite here all the experimental
material, but a single illustrative example may be given. I divided a strong individual into
two parts, planted one in rich soil and the other in poor sand, and had both pollinated by
bees with the pollen of some normal individuals of my variety growing between them. The seeds
of both were saved and sown separately, and the two lots of offspring cultivated close to each
other under the same external conditions. In the beginning no difference was seen, but as soon
as the young plants had unfolded three or four leaves, the progeny of the better nourished
half of the parent plant showed a manifest advance. This difference increased rapidly and was
easily seen in the beds, even before the flowering period.

This experience probably gives an explanation [353] why the quinquefoliolate variety is so
seldom met with in the wild state. For even if it did occur more often, the plants would hardly
find circumstances favorable enough for the full development of their varietal character. They
must often be so poor in anomalous leaves as to be overlooked, or to be taken for instances
of the commonly occurring quadrifoliolate leaves and therefore as not indicating the true variety.

In the beginning of my discussion I have asserted the existence of two different races of "four-leaved"
clovers, a poor one and a rich one, and have insisted on a sharp distinction between them.
This distinction partly depends on experiments with clover, but in great part on tests with
other plants. The previously mentioned circumstance, that clover cannot be pollinated on a
sufficiently large scale otherwise than by insects, prevents trials in more than one direction
at the same time and in the same garden. For this reason I have chosen another species of clover
to be able to give proof or disproof of the assertion quoted.

This species is the Italian, or crimson clover, which is sometimes also called scarlet clover
(Trifolium incarnatum). It is commonly used in Europe as a crop on less fertile soils than
are required by the red clover. It is annual [354] and erect and more or less hairy, and has
stouter leaves than other kinds of clover. It has oblong or cylindrical heads with bright crimson
flowers, and may be considered as one of the most showy types. As an annual it has some manifest
advantages over the perennial species, especially in giving its harvest of hay at other seasons
of the year.

I found some stray quaternate leaves of this plant some years ago, and tried to win from them,
through culture and selection, a race that would be as rich in these anomalies as the red clover.
But the utmost care and the most rigid selection, and all the attention I could afford, failed
to produce any result. It is now ten years since I commenced this experiment, and more than
once I have been willing to give it up. Last year (1903) I cultivated some hundreds of selected
plants, but though they yielded a few more instances of the desired anomaly than in the beginning,
no trace of a truly rich race could be discovered. The experimental evidence of this failure
shows at least that stray "four-leaves" may occur, which do not indicate the existence of a
true "four-" or "five-leaved" variety.

This conception seems destined to become of great value in the appreciation of anomalies, as
they are usually found, either in the wild state [355] or in gardens. And before describing
the details of my unsuccessful pedigree-culture, it may be as well to give some more instances
of what occurs in nature.

Stray anomalies are of course rare, but not so rare that they might not be found in large numbers
when perseveringly sought for. Pitcher-like leaves may be found on many trees and shrubs and
herbs, but ordinarily one or only two of them are seen in the course of many years on the same
plant, or in the same strain. In some few instances they occur annually or nearly so, as in
some individuals of the European lime-tree (Tilia parvifolia) and of the common magnolia (Magnolia
obovata). Many of our older cultivated plants are very rich in anomalies of all kinds, and
Cyclamen, Fuchsia, Pelargonium and some others are notorious sources of teratologic phenomena.
Deviations in flowers may often be seen, consisting of changes in the normal number of the
several organs, or alterations in their shape and color. Leaves may have two tips, instead
of one, the mid-vein being split near the apex, and the fissure extending more or less towards
the base. Rays of the umbels of umbelliferous plants may grow together and become united in
groups of two or more, and in the same way the fruits of [356] the composites may be united
into groups. Many other instances could easily be given.

If we select some of these anomalies for breeding-experiments, our results will not agree throughout,
but will tend to group themselves under two heads. In some cases the isolation of the deviating
individuals will at once show the existence of a distinct variety, which is capable of producing
the anomaly in any desired number of instances; only dependent on a favorable treatment and
a judicious selection. In other cases no treatment and no selection are adequate to give a
similar result, and the anomaly remains refractory despite all our endeavors to breed it. The
cockscomb and the peloric fox-glove are widely known instances of permanent anomalies, and
others will be dealt with in future lectures. On the other hand I have often tried in vain
to win an anomalous race from an accidental deviation, or to isolate a teratologic variety
out of more common aberrations. Two illustrative examples may be quoted. In our next lecture
we shall deal with a curious phenomenon in poppies, consisting in the change of the stamens
into pistils and giving rise to a bright crown of secondary capsules around the central one.
Similar anomalies may be occasionally met with in other species of the same genus. But they
are rare, and may show [357] the conversion of only a single stamen in the described manner.
I observed this anomaly in a poppy called Papaver commutatum, and subjected it during several
years to a rigid selection of the richest individuals. No amelioration was to be gained and
the culture had to be given up. In the same way I found on the bulbous buttercup (Ranunculus
bulbosus) a strain varying largely in the number of the petals, amounting often to 6-8, and
in some flowers even yet to higher figures. During five succeeding years I cultivated five
generations, often in large numbers, selecting always those which had the highest number of
petals, throwing out the remainder and saving the seed only from the very best plants. I got
a strain of selected plants with an average number of nine petals in every flower, and found
among 4,000 flowers four having 20 petals or more, coming up even to 31 in one instance. But
such rare instances had no influence whatever on the selection, since they were not indicative
of individual qualities, but occurred quite accidentally on flowers of plants having only the
average number of petals. Now double flowers are widely known to occur in other species of
the buttercups, both in the cultivated varieties and in some wild forms. For this reason it
might be expected that through a continuous selection of [358] the individuals with the largest
numbers a tendency to become double would be evolved. Such, however, was not the case. No propensity
to vary in any definite direction could be observed. Quite on the contrary, an average condition
was quickly reached, and then remained constant, strongly counteracting all selection.

Such experiences clearly show that the same anomaly may occur in different species, and no
doubt in strains of the same species from different localities, according to at least two different
standards. The one is to be called the poor, and the other the rich variety. The first always
produces relatively few instances of the deviation, the last is apt to give as many of them
as desired. The first is only half-way a variety, and therefore would deserve the name of a
half-race; the second is not yet a full constant variety, but always fluctuates to and fro
between the varietal and the specific mark, ever-sporting in both directions. It holds a middle
position between a half-race and a variety, and therefore might be called a "middle-race."
But the term ever-sporting variety seems more adequate to convey a right idea of the nature
of this curious type of inheritance.

From this discussion it will be seen that the behavior of the crimson clover is not to be considered
[359] as an exception, but as a widely occurring type of phenomenon, occurring perhaps in all
sorts of teratologic deviations, and in wide ranges of species and genera. Hence it may be
considered worth while to give some more details of this extended experiment.

Ten years ago (1894-5) I bought and sowed about a pound of seed of the crimson clover. Among
many thousands of normal seedlings I found two with three and one with four cotyledons. Trusting
to the empirical rules of correlation, I transplanted these three individuals in order to isolate
them in the flowering period.

One of them produced during the ensuing summer one four-bladed and one five-bladed leaf. The
seeds were saved separately and sown the following spring and the expected result could soon
be seen. Among some 250 individual plants I counted 22 with one or two deviations, and 10 with
from three to nine four- or five-bladed leaves. Proportions nearly similar have been observed
repeatedly. Better nourished individuals have produced more deviating leaves on one plant,
partly owing to the larger number of stems and branches, and poor or average specimens have
mostly been without any aberration or with only one or two abnormal leaves. No further improvement
could be attained. Quadrifoliolate leaves were always rare, never [360] attaining a number
that would put its stamp on a whole bed. I have endeavored to get some six- and seven-bladed
crimson clover leaves, but in vain; selection, culture of many hundreds of individuals, manure,
and the best possible treatment has not been adequate to produce them. Of course I am quite
convinced that a repetition of my experiment on a far larger scale would yield the desired
types, but then only in such rare instances that they would have no influence whatever on the
average, or on the improvement of the race. The eighth generation in the year 1903 has not
been noticeably better than the second and third generations after the first selection.

In comparing this statement with the results gained in the experiment with the red clover,
the difference is at once striking. In one case a rich variety was isolated, and, by better
treatment and sharp methods of selection, was brought up in a few years to its highest pitch
of development. In the other case a very weak race was shown to exist, and no amount of work
and perseverance was adequate to improve it to any noticeable degree.

I wish to point out that the decision of what is to be expected from deviating specimens may
become manifest within one or two generations. Even the generation grown from the seeds of
[361] the first observed aberrant-individuals, if gathered after sufficient isolation during
the period of blossoming, may show which type of inheritance is present, whether it is an unpromising
half-race, or a richly endowed sporting variety. I have kept such strains repeatedly after
the first isolation, and a special case, that of cotyledoneous aberrations, will be dealt with
later. The first generation always gave a final decision, provided that a suitable method of
cultivation for the species under observation was found at the beginning. This however, is
a condition, which it is not at all easy to comply with, when new sorts are introduced into
a garden. Especially so when they had been collected in the wild state. Often one or two years,
sometimes more, are necessary to find the proper method of sowing, manuring, transplanting
and, other cultural methods satisfactory to the plants. Many wild species require more care
and more manure in gardens than the finest garden flowers. And a large number are known to
be dependent on very particular conditions of soil.

One of the most curious features of anomalies, which has been learned from accumulated instances,
is the fact that they obey definite laws as to their occurrence on the different parts of the
plant. Obviously such laws are [362] not apparent as long as each plant produces only one or
two, or, at most, a few instances of the same deviation. On the contrary, any existing regularity
must betray itself, as soon as a larger number of instances is produced. A rule of periodicity
becomes most clearly manifest in such cases.

This rule is shown by no other race in a more undoubted and evident manner than by the "five-leaved"
clover. Evidently the several degrees of deviation, going from three to seven leaflets, may
be regarded as responses to different degrees of variation, and their distribution over the
stems and branches, or over the whole plant, may be considered as the manifestation of the
ever-changing internal tendency to vary.

Considered from this point of view, my plants always showed a definite periodicity in this
distribution, which is the same for the whole plant. Each of them, and each of the larger branches,
begin with atavistic leaves or with slight deviations. These are succeeded by greater deviations,
but only the strongest axes show as many as seven leaflets on a stalk. This ordinarily does
not occur before the height of development is reached, and often only towards its close. Then
the deviation diminishes rapidly, returning often to atavistic leaves at the summit of the
stem or branch. I give the numbers of the [363] leaves of a branch, in their order from the
base to the top. They were as follows:

   3.  4.  5.  6.  7.  5.  5. 4.

But this is a selected case, and such regular examples of the expected periodicity are rarely
found. Often one or more of the various steps are lacking, or even leaves with smaller numbers
may be interspersed among those with larger numbers of leaflets. But while the regularity of
the periodicity is in some degree diminished by such occurrences, yet the rule always holds
good, when taken broadly. It may be expressed by stating that the bases and apices have on
the average fewer leaflets on each leaf than the middle parts of the stem and branches, and
that the number of leaflets gradually increases from the base toward a maximum, which is reached
in organs on the middle or upper part of the axis, and then diminishes from this toward the apex.

This periodicity is not limited to the stems and branches, considered singly, but also holds
good in a comparison made between the branches of a single stem, in regard to their relative
places on that stem. So it is also for the whole plant. The first stems, produced by the subterranean
axis, ordinarily show only a low maximum deviation: the next succeeding being [364] more divergent
and the last ones returning to less differentiated forms.

It is evident that on a given stem the group of deviating leaves will be extended upward and
downward, with the increase of the number of these organs. This shows that a stem, or even
a plant, promises a higher degree of differentiation if it commences with its aberration earlier.
Hence it becomes possible to discern the most promising individuals in early youth, and this
conclusion leads to a very easy and reliable method of selection, which may be expressed simply
as follows: the seedlings which commence earliest with the production of four- and five-foliolate
leaves are the best and should be selected for the continuance of the race. And it is easily
seen that this rule agrees with that given above, and which was followed in my pedigree-culture.

Furthermore it is seen that there is a complete agreement between the law of periodicity and
the responses of the deviations to nourishment and other conditions of life. Weak plants only
produce low degrees of deviation, the stronger the individual becomes, the higher it reaches
in the scale of differentiation, and the more often it develops leaves with five or more blades.
Whether weakness or strength are derived from outer causes, or from the internal [365] succession
of the periods of life, is evidently of no consequence, and in this way the law of periodicity
may be regarded as a special instance of the more general law of response to external conditions.

The validity of this law of periodicity is of course not limited to our "five-leaved" clover.
Quite on the contrary it is universal in eversporting varieties. Moreover it may be ascertained
and studied in connection with the most widely different morphologic abnormalities, and therefore
affords easily accessible material for statistical inquiry. I will now give some further instances,
but wish to insist first upon the necessity of an inquiry on a far larger scale, as the evidence
as yet is very scanty.

The great celandine (Chelidonium majus) has a very curious double variety. Its flowers are
simpler and much more variable than in ordinary garden-varieties. The process of doubling consists
mainly in a change of stamens into petals. This change is dependent on the season. On each
stem the earliest flowers are single. These are succeeded by blossoms with one or two converted
stamens, and towards the summer this number increases gradually, attaining 10-11 and in some
instances even more altered filaments. Each year the same succession may be seen repeating
itself on the stems of [366] the old roots. Double tuberous begonias are ordinarily absolutely
sterile throughout the summer, but towards autumn the new flowers become less and less altered,
producing some normal stamens and pistils among the majority of metamorphosed organs. From
these flowers the seeds are saved. Sometimes similar flowers occur at the beginning of the
flowering-period. Double garden-camomiles (Chrysanthemum inodorum plenissimum) and many other
double varieties of garden-plants among the great family of the composites are very sensitive
to external agencies, and their flower-heads are fuller the more favorable the external conditions.
Towards the autumn many of them produce fewer and fewer converted heads and often only these
are fertile and yield seeds.

Ascidia afford another instance of this periodicity, though ordinarily they are by far too
rare to show any regularity in their distribution. However, it is easy to observe that on lime-trees
they prefer the lower parts of each twig, while on magnolias the terminal leaves of the branches
are often pitcher-bearing. Ascidia of the white clover have been found in numbers, in my own
experiment-garden, but always in the springtime. The thickleaved saxifrage (Saxifraga crassifolia)
is often very productive of ascidia, especially in [367] the latter part of the season, and
as these organs may be developed to very different degrees, they afford fine material for the
study of the law of periodicity. On a garden-cytisus (Cytisus candicans attleyanus) I once
had the good fortune to observe a branch with ascidia, which ordinarily are very rare in this
species. It had produced seven ascidia in all, each formed by the conversion of one leaflet
on the trifoliolate leaves. The first six leaves were destitute of this malformation and were
quite normal. Then followed a group of five leaves, constituting the maximum of the period.
The first bore one small pitcher-like blade, the second and third, each one highly modified
organ, the fourth, two ascidia, and the last, one leaflet with slightly connate margins. The
whole upper part of the branch was normal, with the exception of the seventeenth leaf, which
showed a slight change in the same direction. All in all, the tendency to produce ascidia increased
from the beginning to the tenth leaf, and decreased from this upward.

The European Venus' looking-glass was observed in my garden to produce some quaternate and
some quinate flowers on the same specimens. The quinate were placed at the end of the branches,
those with four petals and sepals lower down. The peloric fox-glove shows the [368] highest
degree of metamorphy in the terminal flowers of the stem itself, the weaker branches having
but little tendency towards the formation of the anomaly. The European pine or Pinus sylvestris
ordinarily has two needles in each sheath, but trifoliolate sheaths occur on the stems and
stronger branches, where they prefer, as a rule, the upper parts of the single annual shoots.
Camellia japonica is often striped in the fall and during the winter, but when flowering in
the spring it returns to the monochromatic type.

Peloric flowers are terminal in some cases, but occur in the lower parts of the flower-spikes
in others. Some varieties of gladiolus commence on each spike with more or less double flowers,
which, higher up, are replaced by single ones. A wide range of bulbs and perennial garden-plants
develop their varietal characters only partly when grown from seed and flowering for the first
time. The annual garden-forget-me-not of the Azores (Myosotis azorica) has a variety with curiously
enlarged flowers, often producing 20 or more corolla-segments in one flower. But this number
gradually diminishes as the season advances. It would be quite superfluous to give further
proof of the general validity of the law of periodicity in ever-sporting varieties.

[369]

LECTURE XIII

PISTILLODY IN POPPIES

One of the most curious anomalies that may be met with in ornamental garden-plants is the conversion
of stamens into pistils. It is neither common nor rare, but in most cases the change is so
slight comparatively that it is ordinarily overlooked. In the opium-poppy, on the contrary,
it is very showy, and heightens the ornamental effect of the young fruits after the fading
of the flowers. Here the central capsule is surrounded by a large crown of metamorphosed stamens.

This peculiarity has attracted the attention both of horticulturists and of botanists. As a
rule not all the stamens are changed in this way but only those of the innermost rows. The
outer stamens remain normal and fertile, and the flowers, when pollinated with their own pollen,
bear as rich a harvest of seeds as other opium-poppies. The change affects both the filament
and the anther, the former of which is dilated into a sheath. Within this sheath perfect [370]
and more or less numerous ovules may be produced. The anthers become rudimentary and in their
place broad leafy flaps are developed, which protrude laterally from the tip and constitute
the stigmas. Ordinarily these altered organs are sterile, but in some instances a very small
quantity of seed is produced, and when testing their viability I succeeded in raising a few
plants from them.

The same anomaly occurs in other plants. The common wall-flower (Cheiranthus Cheiri) and the
houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum) are the best known instances. Both have repeatedly been described
by various investigators. In compiling the literature of this subject it is very interesting
to observe the two contrasting views respecting the nature of this anomaly. Some writers, and
among them Masters in his "Vegetable Teratology" consider the deviations to be merely accidental.
According to them some species are more subject to this anomaly than others, and the houseleek
is said to be very prone to this change. Goeppert, Hofmeister and others occasionally found
the pistilloid poppies in fields or gardens, and sowed their seeds in order to ascertain whether
the accidental peculiarity was inheritable or not. On the other hand De Candolle in his "Prodromus"
mentions the pistilloid wall-flowers as a distinct [371] variety, under the name of Cheiranthus
Cheiri gynantherus, and the analogous form of the opium-poppy is not at all an accidental anomaly,
but an old true horticultural variety, which can be bought everywhere under the names of Papaver
somniferum monstruosum or polycephalum. Since it is an annual plant, only the seeds are for
sale, and this at once gives a sufficient proof of its heredity. In all cases, where it was
met with accidentally by botanists, it is to be assumed that stray seeds had been casually
mixed with those of other varieties, or that the habit had been transmitted by a spontaneous cross.

Wherever opportunity led to experiments on heredity, distinct races were found to be in possession
of this quality, while others were not. It is of no use to cultivate large numbers of wall-flowers
in the hope of one day seeing the anomaly arise; the only means is to secure the strain from
those who have got it. With poppies the various varieties are so often intercrossed by bees,
that the appearance of an accidental change may sometimes be produced, and in the houseleek
the pistilloid warily seems to be the ordinary one, the normal strain being very rare or perhaps
wholly wanting.

Our three illustrative examples are good and permanent races, producing their peculiar qualities
[372] regularly and abundantly. In this respect they are however very variable and dependent
on external circumstances. Such a regularity is not met with in other instances. Often pedigree-experiments
lead to poor races, betraying their tendency to deviate only from time to time and in rare
cases. Such instances constitute what we have called in a former lecture, "half races," and
their occurrence indicates that the casual observation of an anomaly is not in itself adequate
to give an opinion as to the chance of repetition in sowing experiments. A large number of
species seem to belong to this case, and their names may be found in the above mentioned work
by Masters and elsewhere. But no effort has yet been made to separate thoroughly the pistilloid
half-races from the corresponding ever-sporting varieties. Some plants are recorded as being
more liable to this peculiarity than others.

Stamens are sometimes replaced by open carpels with naked ovules arising from their edges and
even from their whole inner surfaces. This may be seen in distinct strains of the cultivated
bulbous Begonia, and more rarely in primroses.

The pistillody of the stamens is frequently [373] combined with another deviation in the poppies.
This is the growing together of some of the altered stamens so as to constitute smaller or
larger connate groups. Often two are united, sometimes three, four or more. Flowers with numerous
altered stamens are seldom wholly free from this most undesirable secondary anomaly. I call
it undesirable with respect to experiments on the variability of the character. For it may
easily be seen that while it is feasible to count the stamens even when converted into pistils,
it is not possible when groups of them are more or less intimately united into single bodies.
This combination makes all enumeration difficult and inaccurate and often wholly unreliable.
In such cases the observation is limited to a computation of the degree of the change, rather
than to a strict numerical inquiry. Happily the responses to the experimental influences are
so marked and distinct that even this method of describing them has proved to be wholly sufficient.

In extreme instances I have seen all the changed stamens of a flower of the opium-poppy united
into a single body, so as to form a close sheath all around the central ovary. Lesser sheaths,
surrounding one-half or one-third of the capsule are of course less rarely met with. Leaving
this description of the outer appearance [374] of our anomaly, we may now consider it from
the double point of view of inheritance and variability.

The fact of inheritance is shown by the experience of many authors, and by the circumstance
already quoted, that the variety has been propagated from seed for more than half a century,
and may be obtained from various seed merchants. In respect to the variability, the variety
belongs to the ever-sporting group, constituting a type which is more closely related to the
"five-leaved" clover than to the striped flowers or even the double stocks.

It fluctuates around an average type with half filled crowns, going as far as possible in both
directions, but never transgressing either limit. It is even doubtful whether the presumable
limits are, under ordinary circumstances, ever reached. Obviously one extreme would be the
conversion of all the stamens, and the other the absolute deficiency of any marked tendency
to such a change. Both may occur, and will probably be met with from time to time. But they
must be extremely rare, since in my own extensive experiments, which were strictly controlled,
I never was able to find a single instance of either of them. Some of the outer stamens have
always remained unchanged, yielding enough pollen for the artificial pollination of [375] the
central ovary, and on the other hand some rudiments of hardened filaments were always left,
even if they were reduced to small protuberances on the thalamus of the flower. Between these
extremes all grades occur. From single, partially or wholly changed stamens upwards to 150
and over, all steps may be seen. It is a true fluctuating variability. There is an average
of between 50 and 100, constituting a nearly filled crown around the central capsule. Around
this average the smaller deviations are most numerous and the larger ones more rare. The inspection
of any bed of the variety suffices to show that, taken broadly, the ordinary laws of fluctuating
variability are applicable. No counting of the single individuals is required to dispel all
doubts on this point.

Moreover all intermediate steps respecting the conversion of the single stamens may nearly
always be seen. Rarely all are changed into normal secondary ovaries with a stigma and with
a cavity filled with ovules. Often the stigma is incomplete or even almost wanting, in other
instances the ovules are lacking or the cavity itself is only partially developed. Not rarely
some stamens are reduced and converted into thin hard stalks, without any appearance of an
ovary at their tip. But then the demarcation [376] between them and the thalamus fails, so
that they cannot be thrown off when the flower fades away, but remain as small stumps around
the base of the more fully converted filaments. This fact would frequently render the enumeration
of the altered organs quite unreliable.

For these reasons I have chosen a group of arbitrary stages in order to express the degree
of deviation for a given lot of plants. The limits were chosen so as to be sufficiently trustworthy
and easy to ascertain. In each group the members could be counted, and a series of figures
was reached by this means which allowed of a further comparison of the competing sets of plants.

It should be stated that in such experiments and especially in the case of such a showy criterion
as the pistilloid heads afford after the time of flowering is over, the inspection of the controlling
beds at once indicates the result of the experiment. Even a hasty survey is in most cases sufficient
to get a definite conclusion. Where this is not the case, the counting of the individuals of
the various groups often does not add to the evidence, and the result remains uncertain. On
the other hand, the impression made by the groups of plants on the experimenter and on his
casual visitors, cannot well be conveyed to the readers of his account by [377] other means
than by figures. For this reason the result of the experiments is expressed in this way.

I made six groups. The first includes the cases where the whole circle is reduced to small
rudiments. The second shows 1-10 secondary capsules. The two following constitute half a crown
around the central fruit, the third going up to this limit, the fourth going from this limit
to a nearly filled circle. Wholly filled circles of secondary capsules without gaps give the
two last degrees, the fifth requiring only continuity of the circle, the sixth displaying a
large and bright crown all around the central head. The fifth group ordinarily includes from
90-100 altered stamens, while the sixth has from 100-150 of these deviating parts.

In ordinary cultures the third and fourth group, with their interrupted crowns, predominate.
Large crowns are rare and flowers which at first sight seem to be wholly normal, occur only
under circumstances definitely known to be unfavorable to growth, and to the development of
the anomaly.

Having reached by this means a very simple and easy method of stating the facts shown by equal
lots under contrasting influences, we will now make use of it to inquire into the relation
[378] of this exceptionally high degree of variability to the inner and outer conditions of life.

As a rule, all experiments show the existence of such a relation. Unfavorable conditions reduce
the numbers of altered stamens, favorable circumstances raise it to its highest point. This
holds true for lots including hundreds of specimens, but also for the sundry heads of one bed,
and often for one single plant.

We may compare the terminal flower with those of the lateral branches on a plant, and when
no special influences disturb the experiment, the terminal head ordinarily bears the richest
crown. If the first has more than 100 metamorphosed parts, the latter have often less than
50 on the same plant. In poor soil, terminal heads are often reduced to 10-20 monstrous organs,
and in such cases I found the lateral flowers of the same plants ordinarily with less than
10 altered stamens. In some cases I allowed the branches of the third and fourth degree, in
other words, the side twigs of the first branches of my selected plants to grow out and produce
flowers in the fall. They were ordinarily weak, sometimes very small, having only 5-9 stigmas
on their central fruit. Secondary capsules were not seen on such flowers, even when the experiment
was repeated on a [379] somewhat larger scale and during a series of years.

Among the same lot of plants individual differences almost always occur. They are partly due
to inequalities already existing in the seeds, and partly to the diversity of the various parts
of the same bed. Some of the plants become stout and have large terminal heads. Others remain
very weak, with a slender stem, small leaves and undersized flowers. The height and thickness
of the stem, the growth of the foliage and of the axillary buds are the most obvious measures
of the individual strength of the plant. The development of the terminal flower and the size
of its ovary manifestly depends largely on this individual strength, as may be seen at once
by the inspection of any bed of opium-poppies. Now this size of the head can easily be measured,
either by its height or circumference, or by its weight. Moreover we can arrange them into
a series according to their size. If we do this with the polycephalous variety, the relation
between individual strength and degree of metamorphosis at once becomes manifest. The largest
heads have the brightest crowns, and the number of supernumerary carpels diminishes in nearly
exact proportion to the size of the fruits. Fruits with less than 50 altered stamens weighed
on an average 5 grams, [380] those with 50-100 such organs 7 grams and those with a bright
crown 10 grams, the appendices being removed before the weighing. Corresponding results have
been reached by the comparison of the height of the capsules with their abnormal surroundings.
The degree of development of the monstrosity is shown by this observation to be directly dependent
on, and in a sense proportionate to the individual strength of the plant.

The differences between the specimens grown from a single lot of seeds, for instance from the
seeds of one self-fertilized capsule are, as I have said, partly due to the divergences which
are always present in a bed, even if the utmost care has been taken to make it as uniform as
possible. These local differences are ordinarily underrated and overlooked, and it is often
considered to be sufficient to cultivate small lots of plants under apparently similar conditions
on neighboring beds, to be justified in imputing all the observed deviations of the plants
to hereditary inequalities. This of course is true for large lots, whenever the averages only
are compared. In smaller experiments the external conditions of the single individuals should
always be considered carefully. Lots of one or two square meters suffice for such comparisons,
but smaller lots are always subject to chances and [381] possibilities, which should never
be left out of consideration.

Therefore I will now point out some circumstances, which are ordinarily different on various
parts of one and the same bed.

In the first place comes the inequality of the seeds themselves. Some of them will germinate
earlier and others later. Those that display their cotyledons on a sunny day will be able to
begin at once with the production of organic food. Others appear in bad weather, and will thus
be retarded in their development. These effects are of a cumulative nature as the young plants
must profit by every hour of sunshine, according to the size of the cotyledons. Any inequality
between two young seedlings is apt to be increased by this cumulative effect.

The same holds good for the soil of the bed. It is simply impossible to mix the manure so equally
that all individuals receive the same amount of it from the very beginning. I am in the habit
of using manures in a dry and pulverized condition, of giving definite quantities to each square
meter, and of taking the utmost care to get equal distribution and mixture with the soil, always
being present myself during this most important operation. Nevertheless it is impossible to
make the nourishment exactly equal for all the plants of even a small bed.

[382] Any inequality from this cause will increase the difference in the size of the young
leaves, augment the inequality of their production of organic matter and for this reason go
on in an ever increasing rate.

Rain and spraying, or on the other hand dryness of the soil, have still greater consequences.
The slightest unevenness of the surface will cause some spots to dry rapidly and others to
retain moisture during hours and even sometimes during days.

Seeds, germinating in such little moist depressions grow regularly and rapidly, while those
on the dryer elevations may be retarded for hours and days, before fully unfurling their seed-leaves.
After heavy rains these differences may be observed to increase continually, and in some instances
I found that plants were produced only on the wet spots, while the dry places remained perfectly
bare. From this the wet spots seem to be the most favorable, but on the other hand, seeds may
come to germinate there too numerously and so closely that the young plants will be crowded
together and find neither space nor light enough, for a free and perfect development. The advantage
may change to disadvantage in this way unless the superfluous individuals are weeded out in
due time.

[383] From all these and other reasons some plants will be favored by the external conditions
from the beginning, while others will be retarded, and the effects will gradually increase
until at last they become sufficient to account for a considerable amount of individual variability.
There is no doubt that the difference in the strength of the plant and in the size of the capsules,
going from 5-10 grams for a single fruit, are for the most part due to these unavoidable circumstances.
I have tried all conceivable means to find remedies for these difficulties, but only by sowing
my seeds in pans in a glass-house have I been able to reach more constant and equal conditions.
But unfortunately such a method requires the planting out of the young seedlings in the beginning
of the summer, and this operation is not without danger for opium-poppies, and especially not
without important influence on the monstrosity of the pistilloid variety. Consequently my sowings
of this plant have nearly always been made in the beds.

In order to show how great the influence of all these little things may become, we only have
to make two sowings on neighboring beds and under conditions which have carefully been made
as equal as possible. If we use for these controlling experiments seeds from one and the same
capsule, it will soon become evident that [384] no exact similarity between the two lots may
be expected. Such differences as may be seen in these cases are therefore never to be considered
of value when comparing two lots of seeds of different origin, or under varying conditions.
No amount of accuracy in the estimation of the results of a trial, or in the counting out of
the several degrees of the anomaly, is adequate to overcome the inaccuracy resulting from these
differences.

It is certainly of great importance to have a correct conception in regard to the influence
of the surrounding conditions on the growth of a plant and on the development of the attribute
we are to deal with. No less important is the question of the sensibility of the plants to
these factors. Obviously this sensibility must not be expected to remain the same during the
entire life-period, and periods of stronger and of weaker responses may be discerned.

In the first place it is evident that external or inner influences are able to change the direction
of the development of an organ only so long as this development is not yet fully finished.
In the young flower-bud of the pistilloid poppy there must evidently be some moment in which
it is definitely decided whether the young stamens will grow out normally or become metamorphosed
into secondary pistils. From this [385] moment no further change of external conditions is
able to produce a corresponding change in the degree of the anomaly. The individual strength
of the whole plant may still be affected in a more or less manifest degree, but the number
of converted stamens of the flower has been definitely fixed. The sensitive period has terminated.

In order to determine the exact moment of this termination of the period of sensibility, I
have followed the development of the flower buds during the first weeks of the life of the
young plants. The terminal flower may already be seen in young plants only seven weeks old,
with a stem not exceeding 5-6 cm. in height and a flower-bud with a diameter of nearly 1 mm.,
in which the stamens and secondary pistils are already discernible, but still in the condition
of small rounded protuberances on the thalamus. Though it is not possible at that time to observe
any difference between the future normal and converted stamens, it does not seem doubtful that
the development is so far advanced, that in the inner tissues the decision has already definitely
been taken. In the next few days this decision rapidly becomes visible, and the different parts
of the normal stamens and the metamorphosed carpels soon become apparent. From this observation
it [386] can be inferred that the sensitive period of the anomaly is limited for the terminal
flower-head, to the first few weeks of the life of the young plants. The secondary heads manifestly
leave this period at a somewhat later stage.

In order to prove the accuracy of this conclusion I have tried to injure the anomalies after
the expiration of the first six or seven weeks. I deprived them of their leaves, and damaged
them in different ways. I succeeded in making them very weak and slender, without being able
to diminish the number of the supernumerary carpels. The proportionality of the size of the
central fruit and the development of the surrounding crown can often be modified or even destroyed
by this means, and the apparent exceptions from this rule, which are often observed, may find
their explanation in this way.

In the second place I have tried to change the development of the anomaly during the period
of sensibility, and even in the last part of it. This experiment succeeded fully when carried
out within the fifth or sixth week after the beginning of the germination. As means of injury
I transplanted the young plants. To this end I sowed my seeds in pans in unmanured soil, planted
them out in little pots with richly prepared earth, grew them in these during a few weeks and
afterwards transferred them to the [387] beds, taking care that the pats were removed, but
the balls of earth not broken.

In consequence of this treatment the plants became very large and strong, with luxuriant foliage
and relatively numerous large flowers and fruits. But almost without exception they were poor
in anomalous stamens, at least so on the terminal heads. On a lot of some 70 plants more than
50 had less than half a crown of secondary capsules, while from the same packet of seed the
control-plants gave in an equal number more than half of filled crowns on all plants with the
exception of five weak specimens.

It is curious to compare such artificially injured plants with the ordinary cultures. Strong
stems and heavy fruits, which otherwise are always indicative of showy crowns, now bear fruits
wholly or nearly destitute of any anomalous change. The commonly prevailing rule seems to be
reversed, showing thereby the possibility of abolishing the correlation between individual
strength and anomaly by an artificial encroachment upon the normal conditions.

Aside from these considerations the experiments clearly give proof of the existence of a period
of sensibility limited to the first weeks of the life of the plant for the terminal flower.
This knowledge enables us to explain many apparent [388] parent abnormalities, which may occur
in the experiments.

We now may take a broader view of the period of sensibility. Evidently the response to external
influences will be greater the younger the organ. Sensibility will gradually diminish, and
the phenomena observed in the last part of this period may be considered as the last remainder
of a reaction which previously must have been much stronger and much readier, providing that
it would be possible to isolate them from, and contrast them with, the other responses of the
same plant.

With the light thus cast upon the question, we may conclude that the sensitive period commences
not only at the beginning of the germination, but must also be considered to include the life
of the seed itself. From the moment of fertilization and the formation of the young embryo
the development must be subjected to the influence of external agencies which determine the
direction it will take and the degree of development it will finally be able to acquire. Probably
the time of growth of the embryo and of the ripening of the seed correspond exactly to the
period of highest sensibility. This period is only interrupted during the resting stage of
the seed, to be repeated in germination. Afterwards the sensibility [389] slowly and gradually
decreases, to end with the definite decision of all further growth sometime before the outer
form of the organ becomes visible under the microscope. The last period of life includes only
an expansion of the tissues, which may still have some influence on their final size, but not
on their form. This has been definitely arrested before the end of the sensitive period, and
ordinarily before the commencement of that rapid development, which is usually designated by
the name of growth, as contrasted with evolution.

Within the seed the evolution of the young plant manifestly depends upon the qualities and
life-conditions of the parent-plant. The stronger this is, and the more favorable circumstances
it is placed under, the more food will be available for the seed, and the healthier will be
the development of the embryo. Only well-nourished plants give well-nourished seeds, and the
qualities of each plant are for this reason at least, partly dependent on the properties of
its parents and even of its grandparents.

From these considerations the inference is forced upon us that the apparently hereditary differences,
which are observed to exist among the seeds of a species or a variety and even of a single
strain or a single parent-plant, may for a large part, and perhaps wholly, be the result [390]
of the life-conditions of their parents and grandparents. Within the race all ssvariability
would in this way be reduced to the effects of external circumstances. Among these nourishment
is no doubt the most momentous, and this to such a degree that older writers designated the
external conditions by the term nourishment. According to Knight nutrition reigns supreme in
the whole realm of variability, the kind of food and the method of nourishment coming into
consideration only in a secondary way. The amount of useful nutrition is the all-important factor.

If this is so, and if nutrition decides the degree of deviation of any given character, the
widest deviating individuals are the best nourished ones. The best nourished not only during
the period of sensibility of the attribute under consideration, but also in the broadest sense
of the word.

This discussion casts a curious light upon the whole question of selection. Not of course upon
the choice of elementary species or varieties out of the original motley assembly which nature
and old cultures offer us, but upon the selection of the best individuals for isolation and
for the improvement of the race. These are, according to my views, only the best nourished
ones. Their external conditions have been the [391] most favorable, not only from the beginning
of their own life in the field, but also during their embryonic stages, and even during the
preparation of these latter in the life of their parents and perhaps even their grandparents.
Selection then, would only be the choice of the best nourished individuals.

In connection with the foregoing arguments I have tried to separate the choicest of the poppies
with the largest crown of pistilloid stamens, from the most vigorous individuals. As we have
already seen, these two attributes are as a rule proportional to one another. Exceptions occur,
but they may be explained by some later changes in the external circumstances, as I have also
pointed out. As a rule, these exceptions are large fruits with comparatively too few converted
stamens; they are exactly the contrary from what is required for a selection. Or plants, which
from the beginning were robust, may have become crowded together by further growth, and for
these reasons become weaker than their congeners, though retaining the full development of
the staminodal crown, which was fixed during the sensitive period and before the crowding.
I have searched my beds yearly for several years in vain to find individuals which might recommend
themselves for selection without having the stamp of permanent, [392] or at least temporarily
better, nourishment. No starting-point for such an independent selection has ever been met with.

Summing up the consequences of this somewhat extended discussion, we may state it as a rule
that a general proportion between the individual strength and the degree of development of
the anomaly exists. And from this point of view it is easy to see that all external causes
which are known to affect the one, must be expected to influence the other also.

It will therefore hardly be necessary to give a full description of all my experiments on the
relations of the monstrosity to external conditions. A hasty survey will suffice.

This survey is not only intended to convey an idea of the relations of pistilloid poppies to
their environment, but may serve as an example of the principle involved. According to my experience
with a large range of other anomalies, the same rule prevails everywhere. And this rule is
so simple that exact knowledge of one instance may be considered as sufficient to enable us
to calculate from analogy what is to be expected from a given treatment of any other anomaly.
Our appreciation of observed facts and the conditions to be chosen for intended cultures are
largely dependent on such calculations. What I am now going to describe [393] is to be considered
therefore as an experimental basis for such expectations.

First of all comes the question how many individuals are to be grown in a given place. When
sowing plants for experimental purposes it is always best to sow in rows, and to give as few
seeds to each row as possible, so as to insure all necessary space to the young plants. On
the other hand the seeds do not all germinate, and after sowing too thinly, gaps may appear
in the rows. This would cause not only a loss of space, but an inequality between the plants
in later life, as those nearest the gaps would have more space and more light, and a larger
area for their roots than those growing in the unbroken rows. Hence the necessity of using
large quantities of seed and of weeding out a majority of young plants on the spots where the
greatest numbers germinate.

Crowded cultures as a rule, will give weak plants with thin stems, mostly unbranched and bearing
only small capsules. According to the rule, these will produce imperfect crowns of secondary
pistils. The result of any culture will thus be dependent to a high degree on the number of
individuals per square meter. I have sown two similar and neighboring beds with the thoroughly
mixed seeds of parent-plants of the same strain and culture, using as much [394] as 2.5 cu.
cm. per square meter. On one of the beds I left all the germinating plants untouched and nearly
500 of them flowered, but among them 360 were almost without pistillody, and only 10 had full
crowns. In the other bed I weeded away more than half of the young plants, leaving only some
150 individuals and got 32 with a full crown, nearly 100 with half crowns and only 25 apparently
without monstrosity.

These figures are very striking. From the same quantity of seed, in equal spaces, by similar
exposure and treatment I got 10 fully developed instances in one and 32 in the other case.
The weeding out of supernumerary individuals had not only increased the percentage of bright
crowns, but also their absolute number per square meter. So the greatest number of anomalies
upon a given space may be obtained by taking care that not too many plants are grown upon it:
any increase of the number beyond a certain limit will diminish the probability of obtaining
these structures. The most successful cultures may be made after the maximum number of individuals
per unit of area has been determined. A control-experiment was made under the same conditions
and with the same seed, but allowing much less for the same space. I sowed only 1 cu. cm. on
my bed of 2 square meters, and thereby avoided [395] nearly all weeding out. I got 120 plants,
and among them 30 with full crowns of converted stamens, practically the same number as after
the weeding out in the first experiment. This shows that smaller quantities of seed give an
equal chance for a greater number of large crowns, and should therefore always be preferred,
as it saves both seed and labor.

Weeding out is a somewhat dangerous operation in a comparative trial. Any one who has done
it often, knows that there is a strong propensity to root out the weaker plants and to spare
the stronger ones. Obviously this is the best way for ordinary purposes, but for comparisons
evidently one should not discriminate. This rule is very difficult in practice, and for this
reason one should never sow more than is absolutely required to meet all requirements.

Our second point is the manuring of the soil. This is always of the highest importance, both
for normal and for anomalous attributes. The conversion of the stamens into pistils is in a
large measure dependent upon the conditions of the soil. I made a trial with some 800 flowering
plants, using one sample of seed, but sowing one-third on richly manured soil, one-third on
an unprepared bed of my garden, and one-third on nearly pure sand. In all other respects the
three groups were treated in the same way. Of [396] the manured plants one-half gave full crowns,
of the non-manured only one-fifth, and on the sandy soil a still smaller proportion. Other
trials led to the same results. I have often made use of steamed and ground horn, which is
a manure very rich in nitrogenous substances. One-eighth of a kilo per square meter is an ample
amount. And its effect was to increase the number of full crowns to an exceptional degree.

In the controlling trial and under ordinary circumstances this figure reached some 50%, but
with ground horn it came up as high as 90%. We may state this result by the very striking assertion
that the number of large crowns in a given culture may be nearly doubled by rich manure.

All other external conditions act in a similar manner. The best treatment is required to attain
the best result. A sunny exposure is one of the most essential requisites, and in some attempts
to cultivate my poppies in the shade, I found the pistillody strongly reduced, not a single
full crown being found in the whole lot. Often the weather may be hurtful, especially during
the earlier stages of the plants. I protected my beds during several trials by covering them
with glass for a few weeks, until the young plants reached the glass covering. I got a normal
number of full crowns, some 55%, at a time [397] when the weather was so bad as to reduce the
number in the control experiments to 10%.

It would be quite superfluous to give more details or to describe additional experiments. Suffice
to say, that the results all point in the same direction, and that pistillody of the poppies
always clearly responds to the treatment, especially to external conditions during the first
few weeks, that is, during the period of sensitiveness. The healthier and the stronger the
plants the more fully they will develop their anomaly.

In conclusion something is to be said about the choice of the seed. Obviously it is possible
to compare seeds of different origin by sowing and treating them in the same way, giving attention
to all the points above mentioned. In doing so the first question will be, whether there is
a difference between the seeds of strong plants with a bright crown around the head and those
of weaker individuals with lesser development of the anomaly. It is evident that such a difference
must be expected, since the nutrition of the seed takes place during the period of the greatest
sensitiveness.

But the experiments will show whether this effect holds good against the influences which tend
to change the direction of the development of the anomaly during the time of germination. [398]
The result of my attempt has shown that the choice of the seeds has a manifest influence upon
the ultimate development of the monstrosity, but that this influence is not strong enough to
overwhelm all other factors.

The choice of the fullest or smallest crowns may be repeated during succeeding generations,
and each time compared with a culture under average conditions. By this means we come to true
selection-experiments, and these result in a notable and rapid change of the whole strain.
By selecting the brightest crowns I have come up in three years from 40 to 90 and ultimately
to 120 converted stamens in the best flower of my culture, and in selecting the smallest crowns
I was able in three years to exclude nearly all good crowns, and to make cultures in which
heads with less than half-filled crowns constituted the majority. But such selected strains
always remain very sensitive to treatment, and by changing the conditions the effect may be
wholly lost in a single year, or even turned in the contrary direction. In other words, the
anomaly is more dependent on external conditions during the germinating period than on the
choice of the seeds, providing these belong to the pistilloid variety and have not deteriorated
by some crossing with other sorts.

At the beginning of this lecture I stated that [399] no selection is adequate to produce either
a pure strain of brightly crowned flower-heads without atavism, or to conduce to an absolute
and permanent loss of the anomaly. During a series of years I have tested my plants in both
directions, but without the least effect. Limits are soon reached on both sides, and to transgress
these seems quite impossible.

Taking these limits as the marks of the variety, and considering all fluctuations between them
as responses to external influences working during the life of the individual or governing
the ripening of the seeds, we get a clear picture of a permanent ever-sporting type. The limits
are absolutely permanent during the whole existence of this already old variety. They never
change. But they include so wide a range of variability, that the extremes may be said to sport
into one another, so much the more so as one of the extremes is to be considered morphologically
as the type of the variation, while the other extreme can hardly be distinguished from the
normal form of the species.

[400]

LECTURE XIV

MONSTROSITIES

I have previously dealt with the question of the hereditary tendencies that cause monstrosities.
These tendencies are not always identical for the same anomaly. Two different types may generally,
be distinguished. One of them constitutes a poor variety, the other a rich one. But this latter
is abundant and the first one is poor in instances of exactly the same conformation. Therefore
the difference only lies in the frequency of the anomaly, and not in its visible features.
In discovering an instance of any anomaly it is therefore impossible to tell whether it belongs
to a poor or to a rich race. This important question can only be answered by direct sowing-experiments
to determine the degree of heredity.

Monstrosities are often considered as accidents, and rightfully so, at least as long as they
are considered from a morphological point of view. Physiology of course excludes all accidentality.
And in our present ease it shows [401] that some internal hereditary quality is present, though
often latent, and that the observed anomalies are to be regarded as responses of this innate
tendency to external conditions. Our two types differ in the frequency of these responses.
Rare in the poor race, they are numerous in the rich variety. The external conditions being
the same for both, the hereditary factor must be different. The tendency is weak in the one
and strong in the other. In both cases, according to my experience, it may be weakened or strengthened
by selection and by treatment. Often to a very remarkable degree, but not so far as to transgress
the limits between the two races. Such transgression may apparently be met with from time to
time, but then the next generation generally shows the fallacy of the conclusion, as it returns
more or less directly to the type from which the strain had been derived. Monstrosities should
always be studied by physiologists from this point of view. Poor and rich strains of the same
anomaly seem at first sight to be so nearly allied that it might be thought to be very easy
to change the one into the other. Nevertheless such changes are not on record, and although
I have made several attempts in this line, I never succeeded in passing the limit. I am quite
convinced that sometime [402] a method will be discovered of arbitrarily producing such conversions,
and perhaps the easiest way to attain artificial mutations may lie concealed here. But as yet
not the slightest indication of this possibility is to be found, save the fallacious conclusions
drawn from too superficial observations.

Unfortunately the poor strains are not very interesting. Their chance of producing beautiful
instances of the anomaly for which they are cultivated is too small. Exceptions to this rule
are only afforded by those curious and rare anomalies, which command general attention, and
of which, therefore, instances are always welcome. In such cases they are searched for with
perseverance, and the fact of their rarity impresses itself strongly on our mind.

Twisted stems are selected as a first example. This monstrosity, called biastrepsis, consists
of strongly marked torsions as are seen in many species with decussate leaves, though as a
rule it is very rare. Two instances are the most generally known, those of the wild valerian
(Valeriana officinalis) and those of cultivated and wild sorts of teasels (Dipsacus fullonum,
D. sylvestris, and others). Both of these I have cultivated during upwards of fifteen years,
but with contradictory results. The valerian is a perennial herb, multiplying itself yearly
by [403] slender rootstocks or runners producing at their tips new rosettes of leaves and in
the center of these the flowering stem. My original plant has since been propagated in this
manner, and during several years I preserved large beds with hundreds of stems, in others I
was compelled to keep my culture within more restricted limits. This plant has produced twisted
stems of the curious shape, with a nearly straight flag of leaves on one side, described by
De Candolle and other observers, nearly every year. But only one or two instances of abnormal
stems occurred in each year, and no treatment has been found that proved adequate to increase
this number in any appreciable manner. I have sown the seeds of this plant repeatedly, either
from normal or from twisted stems, but without better results. It was highly desirable to be
able to offer instances of this rare and interesting peculiarity to other universities and
museums, but no improvement of the race could be reached and I have been constrained to give
it up. My twisted valerian is a poor race, and hardly anything can be done with it. Perhaps,
in other countries the corresponding rich race may be hidden somewhere, but I have never had
the good fortune of finding it.

This good fortune however, I did have with the wild teasel or Dipsacus sylvestris. [404] Stems
of this and of allied species are often met with and have been described by several writers,
but they were always considered as accidents and nobody had ever tried to cultivate them. In
the summer of 1885 I saw among a lot of normal wild teasels, two nicely twisted stems in the
botanical garden of Amsterdam. I at once proposed to ascertain whether they would yield a hereditary
race and had all the normal individuals thrown away before the flowering time. My two plants
flowered in this isolated condition and were richly pollinated by insects. Of course, at that
time, I knew nothing of the dependency of monstrosities on external conditions, and made the
mistake of sowing the seeds and cultivating the next generation in too great numbers on a small
space. But nevertheless the anomaly was repeated, and the aberrant individuals were once more
isolated before flowering. The third generation repeated the second, but produced sixty twisted
stems on some 1,600 individuals. The result was very striking and quite sufficient for all
further researches, but the normal condition of the race was not reached. This was the case
only after I had discovered the bad effects of growing too many plants in a limited space.
In the fourth generation I restricted my whole culture to about 100 individuals, and by this
simple [405] means at once got up to 34% of twisted stems. This proportion has since remained
practically the same. I have selected and isolated my plants during five succeeding generations,
but without any further result, the percentage of twisted stems fluctuating between 30 and
about 45 according to the size of the cultures and the favorableness or unfavorableness of
the weather.

It is very interesting to note that all depends on the question whether one has the good fortune
of finding a rich race or not, as this pedigree-culture shows. Afterwards everything depends
on treatment and very little on selection. As soon as the treatment becomes adequate, the full
strength of the race at once displays itself, but afterwards no selection is able to improve
it to any appreciable amount. Of course, in the long run, the responses will be the same as
those of the pistilloid poppies on the average, and some influence of selection will show itself
on closer scrutiny.

Compared with the polycephalous poppies my race of twisted teasels is much richer in atavists.
They are never absent, and always constitute a large part of each generation and each bed,
comprising somewhat more than half of the individuals. Intermediate stages between them and
the wholly twisted stems are not wanting, [406] and a whole series of steps may easily be observed
from sufficiently large cultures. But they are always relatively rare, and any lot of plants
conveys the idea of a dimorphous race, the small twisted stems contrasting strongly with the
tall straight ones.

A sharper contrast between good representatives of a race and their atavists is perhaps to
be seen in no other instance. All the details contribute to the differentiation in appearance.
The whole stature of the plants is affected by the varietal mark. The atavists are not, as
in the case of the poppies, obviously allied with the type by a full range of intermediate
steps, but quite distant from it by their rarity. There seems to be a gap in the same way as
between the striped flowers of the snapdragon and their uniform red atavists, while with the
poppies the atavists may be viewed as being only the extremes of a series of variations fluctuating
around some average type.

From this reason it is as interesting to appreciate the hereditary position of the atavists
of twisted varieties as it was for the red-flowered descendants of the striped flowers. In
order to ascertain this relation it is only necessary to isolate some of them during the blooming-period.
I made this experiment in the summer of 1900 with the eighth generation of my race, and contrived
[407] to isolate three groups of plants by the use of parchment bags, covering them alternately,
so the flowers of only one group were accessible to insects, at a time. I made three groups,
because the atavists show two different types. Some specimens have decussate stems, others
bear all their leaves in whorls of three, but in respect to the hereditary tendency of the
twisting character this difference does not seem to be of any importance.

In this way I got three lots of seeds and sowed enough of them to have three groups of plants
each containing about 150-200 well developed stems. Among these I counted the twisted individuals,
and found nearly the same numbers for all three. The twisted parents gave as many as 41% twisted
children, but the decussate atavists gave even somewhat more, viz., 44%, while the ternate
specimens gave 37%. Obviously the divergences between these figures are too slight to be dwelt
upon, but the fact that the atavists are as true or nearly as true inheritors of the twisted
race as the best selected individuals is clearly proved by this experience.

It is evident that here we have a double race, including two types, which may be combined in
different degrees. These combinations determine a wide range of changes in the stature of the
plants, and it seems hardly right to use the [408] same term for such changes as for common
variations. It is more a contention of opposite characters than a true phenomenon of simple
variability. Or perhaps we might say that it is the effect of the cooperation of a very variable
mark, the twisting, with a scarcely varying attribute of the normal structure of the stem.
Between the two types an endless diversity prevails, but outwardly there are limits which are
never transgressed. The double race is as permanent, and in this sense as constant, as any
ordinary simple variety, both in external form, and in its intimate hereditary qualities.

I have succeeded in discovering some other rich races of twisted plants. One of them is the
Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus), which yielded, after isolation, in the second generation,
25% of individuals with twisted stems, and as each individual produces often 10 and more stems,
I had a harvest of more than half a thousand of instances of this curious, and ordinarily very
rare anomaly. My other race is a twisted variety of Viscaria oculata, which is still in cultivation,
as it has the very consistent quality of being an annual. It yielded last summer (1903) as
high a percentage as 65 of twisted individuals, many of them repeating the monstrosity on several
branches. After some occasional observations Gypsophila paniculata [409] seems to promise similar
results. On the other hand I have sowed in vain the seeds of twisted specimens of the soapwort
and the cleavewort (Saponaria officinalis and Galium Aparine). These and some others seem to
belong to the same group as the valerian and to constitute only poor or so-called half-races.

Next to the torsions come the fasciated stems. This is one of the most common of all malformations,
and consists, in its ordinary form, of a flat ribbon-like expansion of the stems or branches.
Below they are cylindrical, but they gradually lose this form and assume a flattened condition.
Sometimes the rate of growth is unequal on different portions or on the opposite sides of the
ribbon, and curvatures are produced and these often give to the fasciation a form that might
be compared with a shepherd's crook. It is a common thing for fasciated branches and stems
to divide at the summit into a number of subdivisions, and ordinarily this splitting occurs
in the lower part, sometimes dividing the entire fasciated portion. In biennial species the
rosette of the root-leaves of the first year may become changed by the monstrosity, the heart
stretching in a transverse direction so as to become linear. In the next year this line becomes
the base from which the stem grows. In such cases the fasciated stems [410] are broadened and
flattened from the very beginning, and often retain the incipient breadth throughout their
further development. Species of primroses (Primula japonica and others), of buttercups (Ranunculus
bulbosus), the rough hawksbeard (Crepis biennis), the Aster Tripolium, and many others could
be given as instances.

Some of these are so rare as to be considered as poor races, and in cultural trials do not
produce the anomaly except in a very few instances. Heads of rye are found in a cleft condition
from time to time, single at their base and double at the top, but this anomaly is only exceptionally
repeated from seed. Flattened stems of Rubia tinctorum are not unfrequently met with on the
fields, but they seem to have as little hereditary tendency as the split rye (Secale Cereale).
Many other instances could be given. Both in the native localities and in pedigree-cultures
such ribboned stems are only seen from time to time, in successive years, in annual and biennial
as well as in perennial species. The purple pedicularis (Pedicularis palustris) in the wild
state, and the sunflower among cultivated plants, may be cited instead of giving a long list
of analogous instances.

On the other hand rich races of flattened stems are not entirely lacking. They easily betray
[411] themselves by the frequency of the anomaly, and therefore may be found, and tried in
the garden. Under adequate cultivation they are here as rich in aberrant individuals as the
twisted races quoted above, producing in good years from 30-40% and often more instances. I
have cultivated such rich races of the dandelion (Taraxacum officinale), of Thrincia hirta,
of the dame's violet (Hesperis matronalis), of the hawkweed (Picris hieracioides), of the rough
hawksbeard (Crepis biennis), and others.

Respecting the hereditary tendencies these rich varieties with flattened stems may be put in
the same category with the twisted races. Two points however, seem to be of especial interest
and to deserve a separate treatment.

The common cockscomb or Celosia cristata, one of the oldest and most widely cultivated fasciated
varieties may be used to illustrate the first point. In beds it is often to be seen in quite
uniform lots of large and beautiful crests, but this uniformity is only secured by careful
culture and selection of the best individuals. In experimental trials such selection must be
avoided, and in doing so a wide range of variability at once shows itself. Tall, branched stems
with fan-shaped tops arise, constituting a series of steps towards complete atavism. This last
[412] however, is not to be reached easily. It often requires several successive generations
grown from seed collected from the most atavistic specimens. And even such selected strains
are always reverting to the crested type. There is no transgression, no springing over into
a purely atavistic form, such as may be supposed to have once been the ancestor of the present
cockscomb. The variety includes crests and atavists, and may be perpetuated from both. Obviously
every gardener would select the seeds of the brightest crests, but with care the full crests
may be recovered, even from the worst reversionists in two or three generations. It is a double
race of quite the same constitution as the twisted teasels.

My second point is a direct proof of this assertion, but made with a fasciated variety of a
wild species. I took for my experiment the rough hawksbeard. In the summer of 1895 I isolated
some atavists of the fifth generation of my race, which, by ordinary selection, gave in the
average from 20-40% of fasciated stems. My isolated atavists bore abundant fruit, and from
these I had the next year a set of some 350 plants, out of which about 20% had broadened and
linear rosettes. This proportion corresponds with the degree of inheritance which is shown
in many years by the largest and strongest [413] fasciated stems. It strengthens our conclusion
as to the innermost constitution of the double races or ever-sporting varieties.

Twisted stems and fasciations are very striking monstrosities. But they are not very good for
further investigation. They require too much space and too much care. The calculation of a
single percentage requires the counting of some hundreds of individuals, taking many square
meters for their cultivation, and this, as my best races are biennial, during two years. For
this reason the countings must always be very limited, and selection is restrained to the most
perfect specimens.

Now the question arises, whether this mark is the best upon which to found selection. This
seems to be quite doubtful. In the experiments on the heredity of the atavists, we have seen
that they are, at least often, in no manner inferior to even the best inheritors of the race.
This suggests the idea that it is not at all certain that the visible characters of a given
individual are a trustworthy measure of its value as to the transmission of the same character
to the offspring. In other words, we are confronted with the existence of two widely different
groups of characters in estimating the hereditary tendency. One is the visible quality of the
individuals and the other is the direct observation [414] of the degree in which the attribute
is transmitted. These are by no means parallel, and seem in some sense to be nearly independent
of each other. The fact that the worst atavists may have the highest percentage of varietal
units seems to leave no room for another explanation.

Developing this line of thought, we gradually arrive at the conclusion that the visible attribute
of a varying individual is perhaps the most untrustworthy and the most unreliable character
for selection, even if it seems in many cases practically to be the only available one. The
direct determination of the degree of heredity itself is obviously preferable by far. This
degree is expressed by the proportion of its inheritors among the offspring, and this figure
therefore should be elevated to the highest rank, as a measure of the hereditary qualities.
Henceforward we will designate it by the name of hereditary percentage.

In scientific experiments this figure must be determined for every plant of a pedigree-culture
singly, and the selection should be founded exclusively or at least mainly on it. It is easily
seen that this method requires large numbers of individuals to be grown and counted. Some two
or three hundred progeny of one plant are needed to give the decisive figure for this one [415]
individual, and selection requires the comparison of at least fifty or more individuals. This
brings the total amount of specimens to be counted up to some tens of thousands. In practice,
where important interests depend upon the experiments, such numbers are usually employed and
often exceeded, but for the culture of monstrosities, other methods are to be sought in order
to avoid these difficulties.

The idea suggests itself here that the younger the plants are, when showing their distinguishing
marks, the more of them may be grown on a small space. Hence the best way is to choose such
attributes, as may already be seen in the young seedlings, in the very first few weeks of their
lives. Fortunately the seed-leaves themselves afford such distinctive marks, and by this means
the plants may be counted in the pans, requiring no culture at all in the garden. Only the
selected individuals need be grown to ripen their seeds, and the whole selection may be made
in the spring, in the glasshouse. Instead of being very troublesome, the determination of the
hereditary percentages becomes a definite reduction of the size of the experiments. Moreover
it may easily be effected by any one who cares for experimental studies, but has not the means
required for cultures on a larger scale. And lastly, there are [416] a number of questions
about heredity, periodicity, dependency on nourishment and other life conditions, and even
about hybridizing, which may be answered by this new method.

Seed-leaves show many deviations from the ordinary shape, especially in dicotyledonous plants.
A very common aberration is the multiplication of their number, and three seed-leaves in a
whorl are not rarely met with. The whorl may even consist of four, and in rare cases of five
or more cotyledons. Cleft cotyledons are also to be met with, and the fissure may extend varying
distances from the tips. Often all these deviations may be seen among the seedlings of one
lot, and then it is obvious that together they constitute a scale of cleavages, the ternate
and quaternate whorls being only cases where the cleaving has reached its greatest development.
All in all it is manifest that here we are met by one type of monstrosity, but that this type
allows of a wide range of fluctuating variability. For brevity's sake all these cleft and ternate,
double cleft and quaternate cotyledons and even the higher grades are combined under one common
name and indicated as tricotyls.

A second aberration of young seed-plants is exactly opposite to this. It consists of the union
of the two seed-leaves into a single organ. This ordinarily betrays its origin by [417] having
two separate apices, but not always. Such seedlings are called syncotyledonous or syncotyls.
Other monstrosities have been observed from time to time, but need not be mentioned here.

It is evident that the determination of the hereditary percentage is very easy in tricotylous
or syncotylous cultures. The parent plants must be carefully isolated while blooming. Many
species pollinate themselves in the absence of bees; from these the insects are to be excluded.
Others have the stamens and stigmas widely separated and have to be pollinated artificially.
Still others do not lend themselves to such operations, but have to be left free to the visits
of bees and of humble-bees, this being the only means of securing seed from every plant. At
the time of the harvest the seeds should be gathered separately from each plant, and this precaution
should also be observed in studies of the hereditary percentage at large, and in all scientific
pedigree-cultures. Every lot of seeds is to be sown in a separate pan, and care must be taken
to sow such quantities the three to four hundred seedlings will arise from each. As soon as
they display their cotyledons, they are counted, and the number is the criterion of the parent-plant.
Only parent-plants with the highest percentages are selected, and out of [418] their seedlings
some fifty or a hundred of the best ones are chosen to furnish the seeds for the next generation.

This description of the method shows that the selection is a double one. The first feature
is the hereditary percentage. But then not all the seedlings of the selected parents can be
planted out, and a choice has to be made. This second selection may favor the finest tricotyls,
or the strongest individuals, or rely on some other character, but is unavoidable.

We now come to the description of the cultures. Starting points are the stray tricotyls which
are occasionally found in ordinary sowings. In order to increase the chance of finding them,
thousands of seeds of the same species must be inspected, and the range of species must be
widened as much as possible.

Material for beginning such experiments is easily obtained, and almost any large sample of
seeds will be found suitable. Some tricotyls will be found among every thousand seedlings in
many species, while in others ten or a hundred times, as many plants must be examined to secure
them, but species with absolutely pure dicotylous seeds are very rare.

The second phase of the experiment, however, is not so promising. Some species are rich, and
others are poor in this anomaly. This difference [419] often indicates what can be expected
from further culture. Stray tricotyls point to poor species or half-races, while more frequent
deviations suggest rich or double-races. In both cases however, the trial must be made, and
this requires the isolation of the aberrant individuals and the determination of their hereditary
percentage.

In some instances the degree of their inheritance is only a very small one. The isolated tricotyls
yield 1 or 2% of inheritors, in some cases even less, or upwards up to 3 or 4%. If the experiment
is repeated, no amelioration is observed, and this result remains the same during a series
of successive generations. In the case of Polygonum convolvulus, the Black bindweed, I have
tried as many as six generations without ever obtaining more than 3%. With other species I
have limited myself to four successive years with the same negative result, as with spinage,
the Moldavian dragon-head, (Dracocephalum moldavicum), and two species of corn catch-fly (Silene
conica and S. conoidea).

Such poor races hardly afford a desirable material for further inquiries. Happily the rich
races, though rare, may be discovered also from time to time. They seem to be more common among
cultivated plants and horticultural as well as agricultural species may be used. Hemp [420]
and mercury (Mercurialis annua) among the first, snapdragon, poppies, Phacelia, Helichrysum,
and Clarkia among garden-flowers may be given as instances of species containing the rich tricotylous
double races.

It is very interesting to note how strong the difference is between such cases and those which
only yield poor races. The rich type at once betrays itself. No repeated selection is required.
The stray tricotyls themselves, that are sought out from among the original samples, give hereditary
percentages of a much higher type after isolation than those quoted above. They come up to
10-20% and in some cases even to 40%. As may be expected, individual differences occur, and
it must even be supposed that some of the original tricotyls may not be pure, but hybrids between
tricotylous and dicotylous parents. These are at once eliminated by selection, and if only
the tricotyls which have the highest percentages are chosen for the continuance of the new
race, the second generation comes up with equal numbers of dicotyls and tricotyls among the
seedlings. The figures have been observed to range from 51-58% in the majority of the cases,
and average 55%, rarely diverging somewhat more from this average.

Here we have the true type of an ever-sporting variety. Every year it produces in the [421]
same way heirs and atavists. Every plant, if fertilized with its own pollen, gives rise to
both types. The parent itself may be tricotylous or dicotylous, or show any amount of multiplication
and cleavage in its seed-leaves, but it always gives the entire range among its progeny of
the variation. One may even select the atavists, pollinate them purely and repeat this in a
succeeding generation without any chance of changing the result. On an average the atavists
may give lower hereditary figures, but the difference will be only slight.

Such tricotylous double races offer highly interesting material for inquiries into questions
of heredity, as they have such a wide range of variability. There is little danger in asserting
that they go upwards to nearly 100%, and downwards to 0%, diverging symmetrically on both sides
of their average (50-55%). These limits they obviously cannot transgress, and are not even
able to reach them. Samples of seed consisting only of tricotyls are very rare, and when they
are met with the presumption is that they are too few to betray the rare aberrants they might
otherwise contain. Experimental evidence can only be reached by the culture of a succeeding
generation, and this always discloses the hidden qualities, showing that the double [422] type
was only temporarily lost, but bound to return as soon as new trials are made.

This wide range of variability between definite limits is coupled with a high degree of sensibility
and adequateness to the most diverging experiments. Our tricotylous double races are perhaps
more sensitive to selection than any other variety, and equally dependent on outer circumstances.
Here, however, I will limit myself to a discussion of the former point.

In the second generation after the isolation of stray tricotylous seedlings the average condition
of the race is usually reached, but only by some of the strongest individuals, and if we continue
the race, sowing or planting only from their offspring, the next generation will show the ordinary
type of variability, going upwards in some and downwards in other instances. With the Phacelia
and the mercury and some others I had the good luck in this one generation to reach as high
as nearly 90% of tricotylous seedlings, a figure indicating that the normal dicotylous type
had already become rare in the race. In other cases 80% or nearly 80% was easily attained.
Any further divergence from the average would have required very much larger sowings, the effect
of selection between a limited number of parents being only to retain the high degree once
[423] reached; so for instance with the mercury, I had three succeeding generations of selection
after reaching the average of 55%, but their extremes gave no increasing advance, remaining
at 86, 92 and 91%.

If we compare these results with the effects of selection in twisted and fasciated races, we
observe a marked contrast. Here they reached their height at 30-40%, and no number of generations
had the power of making any further improvement. The tricotyls come up in two generations to
a proportion of about 54%, which shows itself to correspond to the average type. And as soon
as this is reached, only one generation is required to obtain a very considerable improvement,
going up to 80 or even 90%.

It is evident that the cause of this difference does not lie in the nature of the monstrosity,
but is due to the criterion upon which the selection is made. Selection of the apparently best
individuals is one method, and it gives admirable results. Selection on the ground of the hereditary
percentages is another method and gives results which are far more advantageous than the former.

In the lecture on the pistillody of the poppies we limited ourselves to the selection of the
finest individuals and showed that there is always a manifest correlation between the individual
[424] strength of the plant and the degree of development of its anomaly. The same holds good
with other monstrosities, and badly nourished specimens of rich races with twisted or fasciated
stems always tend to reversion. This reversion, however, is not necessarily correlated with
the hereditary percentage and therefore does not always indicate a lessening of the degree
of inheritance. This shows that even in those cases an improvement may be expected, if only
the means can be found to subject the twisted and the fasciated races to the same sharp test
as the tricotylous varieties.

Much remains to be done, and the principle of the selection of parents according to the average
constitution of their progeny seems to be one of the most promising in the whole realm of variability.

Besides tricotylous, the syncotylous seedlings may be used in the same way. They are more rarely
met with, and in most instances seem to belong only to the unpromising half-races. The black
bindweed (Polygonum Convolvulus), the jointed charlock (Raphanus Raphanistrum), the glaucous
evening-primrose (Oenothera glauca) and many other plants seem to contain such half-races.
On the other hand I found a plant of Centranthus macrosiphon yielding as much as 55% of syncotylous
children [425] and thereby evidently betraying the nature of a rich or double race. Likewise
the mercury was rich in such deviations. But the best of all was the Russian sunflower, and
this was chosen for closer experiments.

In the year of 1888 I had the good luck to isolate some syncotylous seedlings and of finding
among them one with 19% of inheritors among its seeds. The following generation at once surpassed
the ordinary average and came up in three individuals to 76, 81 and even 89%. My race was at
once isolated and ameliorated by selection. I have tried to improve it further and selected
the parents with the highest percentages during seven more generations; but without any remarkable
result. I got figures of 90% and above, coming even in one instance up to the apparent purity
of 100%. These, however, always remained extremes, the averages fluctuating yearly between
80-90% or thereabouts, and the other extremes going nearly every year downwards to 50%, the
value which would be attained, if no selection were made.

Contra-selection is as easily made as normal selection. According to our present principle
it means the choice of the parents with the smallest hereditary percentage. One might easily
imagine that by this means the dicotylous seedlings could be rendered pure. This, however,
[426] is not at all the case. It is easy to return from so highly selected figures as for instance
95% to the average about of 50%, as regression to mediocrity is always an easy matter. But
to transgress this average on the lower side seems to be as difficult as it is on the upper
side. I continued the experiment during four succeeding generations, but was not able to go
lower than about 10%, and could not even exclude the high figures from my strain. Parents with
65-75% of syncotylous seedlings returned in each generation, notwithstanding the most careful
contra-selection. The attribute is inherent in the race, and is not to be eliminated by so
simple a means as selection, nor even by a selection on the ground of hereditary percentages.

We have dealt with torsions and fasciations and with seedling variations at some length, in
order to point out the phases needing investigation according to recent views. It would be
quite superfluous to consider other anomalies in a similar manner, as they all obey the same
laws. A hasty survey may suffice to show what prospects they offer to the student of nature.

First of all come the variegated leaves. They are perhaps the most variable of all variations.
They are evidently dependent on external circumstances, and by adequate nutrition the leaves
may even become absolutely white or [427] yellowish, with only scarcely perceptible traces
of green along the veins. Some are very old cultivated varieties, as the wintercress, or Barbarea
vulgaris. They continuously sport into green, or return from this normal color, both by seeds
and by buds. Sports of this kind are very often seen on shrubs or low trees, and they may remain
there and develop during a long series of years. Bud-sports of variegated holly, elms, chestnuts,
beeches and others might be cited. One-sided variegation on leaves or twigs with the opposite
side wholly green are by no means rare. It is very curious to note that variegation is perhaps
the most universally known anomaly, while its hereditary tendencies are least known.

Cristate and plumose ferns are another instance. Half races or rare accidental cleavages seem
to be as common with ferns as cultivated double races, which are very rich in beautiful crests.
But much depends on cultivation. It seems that the spores of crested leaves are more apt to
reproduce the variety than those of normal leaves, or even of normal parts of the same leaves.
But the experiments on which this assertion is made are old and should be repeated. Other cases
of cleft leaves should also be tested. Ascidia are far more common than is usually believed.
Rare instances point [428] to poor races, but the magnolias and lime-trees are often so productive
of ascidia as to suggest the idea of ever-sporting varieties. I have seen many hundred ascidia
on one lime-tree, and far above a hundred on the magnolia. They differ widely in size and shape,
including in some cases two leaves instead of one, or are composed of only half a leaf or of
even still a smaller part of the summit. Rich ascidia-bearing varieties seem to offer notable
opportunities for scientific pedigree-cultures.

Union of the neighboring fruits and flowers on flower-heads, of the rays of the umbellifers
or of the successive flowers of the racemes of cabbages and allied genera, seem to be rare.
The same holds good for the adhesion of foliar to axial organs, of branches to stems and other
cases of union. Many of these cases return regularly in each generation, or may at least be
seen from time to time in the same strains. Proliferation of the inflorescence is very common
and changes in the position of staminate and pistillate flowers are not rare. We find starting
points for new investigations in almost any teratological structure. Half-races and double-races
are to be distinguished and isolated in all cases, and their hereditary qualities, the periodicity
of the recurrence of the anomaly, the dependency on external circumstances [429] and many other
questions have to be answered.

Here is a wide field for garden experiments easily made, which might ultimately yield much
valuable information on many questions of heredity of universal interest.

[430]

LECTURE XV

DOUBLE ADAPTATIONS

The chief object of all experimentation is to obtain explanations of natural phenomena. Experiments
are a repetition of things occurring in nature with the conditions so guarded and so closely
followed that it is possible to make a clear analysis of facts and their causes, it being rightfully
assumed that the laws are the same in both cases.

Experiments on heredity and the experience of the breeder find their analogy in the succession
of generations in the wild state. The stability of elementary species and of retrograde varieties
is quite the same under both conditions. Progression and retrogression are narrowly linked
everywhere, and the same laws govern the abundance of forms in cultivated and in wild plants.

Elementary species and retrograde varieties are easily recognizable. Ever-sporting varieties
on the contrary are far less obvious, and in many cases their hereditary relations have [431]
had to be studied anew. A clear analogy between them and corresponding types of wild plants
has yet to be pointed out. There can be no doubt that such analogy exists; the conception that
they should be limited to cultivated plants is not probable. Striped flowers and variegated
leaves, changes of stamens into carpels or into petals may be extremely rare in the wild state,
but the "five-leaved" clover and a large number of monstrosities cannot be said to be typical
of the cultivated condition. These, however, are of rare occurrence, and do not play any important
part in the economy of nature.

In order to attain a better solution of the problem we must take a broader view of the facts.
The wide range of variability of ever-sporting varieties is due to the presence of two antagonistic
characters which cannot be evolved at the same time and in the same organ, because they exclude
one another. Whenever one is active, the other must be latent. But latency is not absolute
inactivity and may often only operate to encumber the evolution of the antagonistic character,
and to produce large numbers of lesser grades of its development. The antagonism however, is
not such in the exact meaning of the word; it is rather a mutual exclusion, because one of
the opponents simply takes the place of the other when absent, or supplements [432] it to the
extent that it may be only imperfectly developed. This completion ordinarily occurs in all
possible degrees and thus causes the wide range of the variability. Nevertheless it may be
wanting, and in the case of the double stocks only the two extremes are present.

It is rather difficult to get a clear conception of the substitution, and it seems necessary
to designate the peculiar relationship between the two characters forming such a pair by a
simple name. They might be termed alternating, if only it were clearly understood that the
alternation may be complete, or incomplete in all degrees. Complete alternation would result
in the extremes, the incomplete condition in the intermediate states. In some cases as with
the stocks, the first prevails, while in other cases, as with the poppies, the very extremes
are only rarely met with.

Taking such an alternation as a real character of the ever-sporting varieties, a wide range
of analogous cases is at once revealed among the normal qualities of wild plants. Alternation
is here almost universal. It is the capacity of young organs to develop in two diverging directions.
The definitive choice must be made in extreme youth, or often at a relatively late period of
development. Once made, this [433] choice is final, and a further change does not occur in
the normal course of things.

The most curious and most suggestive instance of such an alternation is the case of the water-persicaria
or Polygonum amphibium. It is known to occur in two forms, one aquatic and the other terrestrial.
These are recorded in systematic works as varieties, and are described under the names of P.
amphibium var. natans Moench, and P. amphibium var. terrestre Leers or P. amphibium var. terrestris
Moench. Such authorities as Koch in his German flora, and Grenier and Godron in their French
flora agree in the conception of the two forms as varieties.

Notwithstanding this, the two varieties may often be observed to sport into one another. They
are only branches of the same plant, grown under different conditions. The aquatic form has
floating or submerged stems with oblong or elliptic leaves, which are glabrous and have long
petioles. The terrestrial plants are erect, nearly simple, more or less hispid throughout,
with lanceolate leaves and short petioles, often nearly sessile. The aquatic form flowers regularly,
producing its peduncle at right angles from the floating stems, but the terrestrial specimens
are ordinarily seen without flower-spikes, which are but rarely met with, at least as far as
my own experience goes. Intermediate [434] forms are very rare, perhaps wholly wanting, though
in swamps the terrestrial plants may often vary widely in the direction of the floating type.

That both types sport into each other has long been recognized in field-observations, and has
been the ground for the specific name of amphibium, though in this respect herbarium material
seems usually to be scant. The matter has recently been subjected to critical and experimental
studies by the Belgian botanist Massart, who has shown that by transplanting the forms into
the alternate conditions, the change may always be brought about artificially. If floating
plants are established on the shore they make ascending hairy stems, and if the terrestrial
shoots are submerged, their buds grow into long and slack, aquatic stems. Even in such experiments,
intermediates are rare, both types agreeing completely with the corresponding models in the
wild state.

Among all the previously described cases of horticultural plants and monstrosities there is
no clearer case of an ever-sporting variety than this one of the water-persicaria. The var.
terrestris sports into the var. natans, and as often as the changing life conditions may require
it. It is-true that ordinary sports occur without our discerning the cause and without [435]
any relation to adaptation. This however is partly due to our lack of knowledge, and partly
to the general rule that in nature only such sports as are useful are spared by natural selection,
and what is useful we ordinarily term adaptive.

Another side of the question remains to be considered. The word variety, as is now becoming
generally recognized, has no special meaning whatever. But here it is assumed in the clearly
defined sense of a systematic variety, which includes all subdivisions of species. Such subdivisions
may be, from a biological point of view, elementary species and also be eversporting varieties.
They may be retrograde varieties, and the two alternating types may be described as separate
varieties.

It is readily granted that many writers would not willingly accept this conclusion. But it
is simply impossible to avoid it. The two forms of the water-persicaria must remain varieties,
though they are only types of the different branches of a single plant.

If not, hundreds and perhaps thousands of analogous cases are at once exposed to doubt, and
the whole conception of systematic varieties would have to be thrown over. Biologists of course
would have no objection to this, but the student of the flora of any given country [436] or
region requires the systematic subdivisions and should always use his utmost efforts to keep
them as they are. There is no intrinsic difficulty in the statement that different parts of
the same plant should constitute different varieties.

In some cases different branches of the same plant have been described as species. So for instance
with the climbing forms of figs. Under the name of Ficus repens a fine little plant is quite
commonly cultivated as a climber in flower baskets. It is never seen bearing figs. On the other
hand a shrub of our hothouses called Ficus stipulata, is cultivated in pots and makes a small
tree which produces quite large, though non-edible figs. Now these two species are simply branches
of the same plant. If the repens is allowed to climb up high along the walls of the hothouses,
it will at last produce stipulate branches with the corresponding fruits. Ficus radicans is
another climbing form, corresponding to the shrub Ficus ulmifolia of our glasshouses. And quite
the same thing occurs with ivy, the climbing stems of which never flower, but always first
produce erect and free branches with rhombic leaves. These branches have often been used as
cuttings and yield little erect and richly flowering shrubs, which are known in [437] horticulture
under the varietal name of Hedera Helix arborea.

Manifestly this classification is as nearly right as that of the two varieties of the water-persicaria.
Going one step further, we meet with the very interesting case of alpine plants. The vegetation
of the higher regions of mountains is commonly called alpine, and the plants show a large number
of common features, differentiating them from the flora of lower stations. The mountain plants
have small and dense foliage, with large and brightly-colored flowers. The corresponding forms
of the lowlands have longer and weaker stems, bearing their leaves at greater distances, the
leaves themselves being more numerous. The alpine forms, if perennial, have thick, strongly
developed and densely branched rootstocks with heavy roots, in which a large amount of food
material is stored up during the short summer, and is available during the long winter months
of the year.

Some species are peculiar to such high altitudes, while many forms from the lowlands have no
corresponding type on the mountains. But a large number of species are common to both regions,
and here the difference of course is most striking. Lotus corniculatus and Calamintha Acinos,
Calluna vulgaris and Campanula [438] rotundifolia may be quoted as instances, and every botanist
who has visited alpine regions may add other examples. Even the edelweiss of the Swiss Alps,
Gnaphalium Leontopodium, loses its alpine characters, if cultivated in lowland gardens. Between
such lowland and alpine forms intermediates regularly occur. They may be met with whenever
the range of the species extends from the plains upward to the limit of eternal snow.

In this case the systematists formerly enumerated the alpine plants as forma alpestris, but
whenever the intermediate is lacking the term Varietas alpestris was often made use of.

It is simply impossible to decide concerning the real relation between the alpine and lowland
types without experiments. About the middle of the last century it was quite a common thing
to collect plants not only for herbarium-material, but also for the purpose of planting them
in gardens and thus to observe their behavior under new conditions. This was done with the
acknowledged purpose of investigating the systematic significance of observed divergencies.
Whenever these held good in the garden they were considered to be reliable, but if they disappeared
they were regarded as the results of climatic conditions, or of the influence of soil or nourishment.
Between [439] these two alternatives, many writers have tried to decide, by transplanting their
specimens after some time in the garden, into arid or sandy soil, in order to see whether they
would resume their alpine character.

Among the systematists who tested plants in this way, Nageli especially, directed his attention
to the hawkweeds or Hieracium. On the Swiss Alps they are very small and exhibit all the characters
of the pure alpine type. Thousands of single plants were cultivated by him in the botanical
garden of Munich, partly from seed and partly from introduced rootstocks. Here they at once
assumed the tall stature of lowland forms. The identical individual, which formerly bore small
rosettes of basal leaves, with short and unbranched flower-stalks, became richly leaved and
often produced quite a profusion of flower-heads on branched stems. If then they were transplanted
to arid sand, though remaining in the same garden and also under the same climatic conditions
they resumed their alpine characters. This proved nutrition to be the cause of the change and
not the climate.

The latest and most exact researches on this subject are due to Bonnier, who has gone into
all the details of the morphologic as well as of the physiologic side of the problem. [440]
His purpose was the study of partial variability under the influence of climate and soil. In
every experiment he started from a single individual, divided it into two parts and planted
one half on a mountain and the other half on the plain. The garden cultures were made chiefly
at Paris and Fontainebleau, the alpine cultures partly in the Alps, partly in the Pyrenees.
From time to time the halved plants were compared with each other, and the cultures lasted,
as a rule, during the lifetime of the individual, often covering many years.

The common European frostweed or Helianthemum vulgare will serve to illustrate his results.
A large plant growing in the Pyrenees in an altitude of 2,400 meters was divided. One half
was replanted on the same spot, and the other near Cadeac, at the base of the mountain range
(740 M.). In order to exclude the effect of a change of soil, a quantity of the earth from
the original locality was brought into the garden and the plant put therein. Further control
experiments were made at Paris. As soon as the two halved individuals commenced to grow and
produced new shoots, the influence of the different climates made itself felt. On the mountain,
the underground portions remained strong and dense, the leaves and internodes small and hairy,
the flowering stems nearly [441] procumbent, the flowers being large and of a deep yellow.
At Cadeac and at Paris the whole plant changed at once, the shoots becoming elongated and loose,
with broad and flattened, rather smooth leaves and numerous pale-hued flowers. The anatomical
structure exhibited corresponding differences, the intercellular spaces being small in the
alpine plant and large in the one grown in the lowlands, the wood-tissues strong in the first
and weak in the second case.

The milfoil (Achillea Millefolium) served as a second example, and the experiments were carried
on in the same localities. The long and thick rootstocks of the alpine plant bearing short
stems only with a few dense corymbs contrasted markedly with the slender stems, loose foliage
and rich groups of flowerheads of the lowland plant. The same differences, in inner and outer
structures were observed in numerous instances, showing that the alpine type in these cases
is dependent on the climate, and that the capacity for assuming the antagonistic characters
is present in every individual of the species. The external conditions decide which of them
becomes active and which remains inactive, and the case seems to be exactly parallel to that
of the water-persicaria.

In the experiments of Bonnier the influence of the soil was, as a rule, excluded by transplanting
[442] part of the original earth with the transplanted half of the plant. From this he concluded
that the observed changes were due to the inequality of the climate. This involved three main
factors, light, moisture and temperature. On the mountains the light is more intense, the air
drier and cooler. Control-experiments were made on the mountains, depriving the plants of part
of the light. In various ways they were more or less shaded, and as a rule responded to this
treatment in the same way as to transplantation to the plain below. Bonnier concluded that,
though more than one factor takes part in inciting the morphologic changes, light is to be
considered as the chief agency. The response is to be considered as a useful one, as the whole
structure of the alpine varieties is fitted to produce a large amount of organic material in
a short time, which enables the plants to thrive during the short summers and long winters
of their elevated stations.

In connection with these studies on the influences of alpine climates, Bonnier has investigated
the internal structure of arctic plants, and made a series of experiments on growth in continuous
electric light. The arctic climate is cold, but wet, and the structure of the leaves is correspondingly
loose, though the plants become [443] as small as on the Alps. Continuous electric light had
very curious effects; the plants became etiolated, as if growing in darkness, with the exception
that they assumed a deep green tinge. They showed more analogy with the arctic than with the
alpine type.

The influence of the soil often produces changes similar to that of climate. This was shown
by the above cited experiments of Nageli with the hawkweeds, and may easily be controlled in
other cases. The ground-honeysuckle or Lotus corniculatus grows in Holland partly on the dry
and sandy soil of the dunes, and occasionally in meadows. It is small and dense in the first
case, with orange and often very darkly colored petals, while it is loose and green in the
meadows, with yellower flowers. Numerous analogous cases might be given. On mountain slopes
in South Africa, and especially in Natal, a species of composite is found, which has been introduced
into culture and is used as a hanging plant. It is called Othonna crassifolia and has fleshy,
nearly cylindrical leaves, and exactly mimics some of the crassulaceous species. On dry soil
the leaves become shorter and thicker and assume a reddish tinge, the stems remain short and
woody and bear their leaves in dense rosettes. On moist and rich garden-soil this aspect becomes
[444] changed at once, the stems grow longer and of a deeper green. Intermediates occur, but
notwithstanding this the two extremes constitute clearly antagonistic types.

The flora of the deserts is known to exhibit a similar divergent type. Or rather two types,
one adapted to paucity of water, and the other to a storage of fluid at one season in order
to make use of it at other times, as is the case with the cactuses. Limiting ourselves to the
alternate group, we observe a rich and dense branching, small and compact leaves and extraordinarily
long roots. Here the analogy with the alpine varieties is manifest, and the dryness of the
soil evidently affects the plants in a similar way, as do the conditions of life in alpine
regions. The question at once comes up as to whether here too we have only instances of partial
variability, and whether many of the typical desert-species would lose their peculiar character
by cultivation under ordinary conditions. The varieties of Monardella macrantha, described
by Hall, from the San Jacinto Mountain, Cal., are suggestive of such an intimate analogy with
the cases studied by Bonnier, that it seems probable that they might yield similar results,
if tested by the same method.

Leaving now the description of these special [445] cases, we may resume our theoretical discussion
of the subject, and try to get a clearer insight into the analogy of ever-sporting varieties
and the wild species quoted. All of them may be characterized by the general term of dimorphism.
Two types are always present, though not in the same individual or in the same organ. They
exclude one another, and during their juvenile stage a decision is taken in one direction or
in the other. Now, according to the theory of natural selection, wild species can only retain
useful or at least innocuous qualities, since all mutations in a wrong direction must perish
sooner or later. Cultivated species on the other hand are known to be largely endowed with
qualities, which would be detrimental in the wild condition. Monstrosities are equally injurious
and could not hold their own if left to themselves.

These same principles may be applied to ever-sporting or antagonistic pairs of characters.
According to the theory of mutations such pairs may be either useful or useless. But only the
useful will stand further test, and if they find suitable conditions will become specific or
varietal characters. On this conclusion it becomes at once clear, why natural dimorphism is,
as a rule, a very useful quality, while the cultivated dimorphous varieties [446] strike us
as something unnatural. The relation between cause and effect, is in truth other than it might
seem to be at first view, but nevertheless it exists, and is of the highest importance.

From this same conclusion we may further deduce some explanation of the hereditary races characterized
by monstrosities. It is quite evident that the twisted teasels are inadequate for the struggle
with their tall congeners, or with the surrounding plants. Hence the conclusion that a pure
and exclusively twisted race would soon die out. The fact that such races are not in existence
finds its explanation in this circumstance, and therefore it does not prove the impossibility
or even the improbability that some time a pure twisted race might arise. If chance should
put such an accidental race in the hands of an experimenter, it could be protected and preserved,
and having no straight atavistic branches, but being twisted in all its organs, might yield
the most curious conceivable monstrosity, surpassing even the celebrated dwarf twisted shrubs
of Japanese horticulturists.

Such varieties however, do not exist at present. The ordinary twisted races on the other hand,
are found in the wild state and have only to be isolated and cultivated to yield large numbers
[447] of twisted individuals. In nature they are able to maintain themselves during long centuries,
quite as well as normal species and varieties. But they owe this quality entirely to their
dimorphous character. A twisted race of teasels might consist of successive generations of
tall atavistic individuals, and produce yearly some twisted specimens, which might be destroyed
every time before ripening their seeds. Reasoning from the evidence available, and from analogous
cases, the variety would, even under such extreme circumstances, be able to last as long as
any other good variety or elementary species. And it seems to me that this explanation makes
clear how it is possible that varieties, which are potentially rich in their peculiar monstrosity,
are discovered from time to time among plants when tested by experimental methods.

Granting these conclusions, monstrosities on the one side, and dimorphous wild species on the
other, constitute the most striking examples of the inheritance of latent characters.

The bearing of the phenomena of dimorphism upon the principles of evolution formulated by Lamarck,
and modified by his followers to constitute Neo-Lamarckianism, remains to be considered. Lamarck
assumed that the external conditions directly affected the organisms in [448] such a way as
to make them better adapted to life, under prevailing circumstances. Nageli gave to this conception
the name "Theory of direct causation" (Theorie der directen Bewirkung), and it has received
the approval of Von Wettstein, Strasburger and other German investigators. According to this
conception a plant, when migrating from lowlands into the mountains would slowly be changed
and gradually assume alpine habits. Once acquired this habit would become fixed and attain
the rank of specific characters. In testing this theory by field-observations and culture-experiments,
the defenders of the Nagelian principle could easily produce evidence upon the first point.
The change of lowland-plants into alpine varieties can be brought about in numerous cases,
and corresponding changes under the influence of soil, or climate, or life-conditions are on
record for the most various characters and qualities.

The second point, however, is as difficult to prove as the first is of easy treatment. If after
hundreds and thousands of years of exposure to alpine or other extreme conditions a fixed change
is proved to have taken place, the question remains unanswered, whether the change has been
a gradual or a sudden one. Darwin pointed out that long periods of life afford a [449] chance
for a sudden change in the desired direction, as well as for the slow accumulation of slight
deviations. Any mutations in a wrong direction would at once be destroyed, but an accidental
change in a useful way would be preserved, and multiply itself. If in the course of centuries
this occurred, they would be nearly sure to become established, however rare at the outset.
Hence the positive assertion is scarcely capable of direct proof.

On the other hand the negative assertion must be granted full significance. If the alpine climate
has done no more than produce a transitory change, it is clear that thousands of years do not,
necessarily, cause constant and specific alterations. This requirement is one of the indispensable
supports of the Lamarckian theory. The matter is capable of disproof however, and such disproof
seems to be afforded by the direct evidence of the present condition of the alpine varieties
at large, and by many other similar cases.

Among these the observations of Holtermann on some desert-plants of Ceylon are of the highest
value. Moreover they touch questions which are of wide importance for the study of the biology
of American deserts. For this reason I may be allowed to introduce them here at some length.

[450] The desert of Kaits, in Northern Ceylon, nourishes on its dry and torrid sands some species,
represented by a large number of individuals, together with some rarer plants. The commonest
forms are Erigeron Asteroides, Vernonia cinerea, Laurea pinnatifida, Vicoa auriculata, Heylandia
latebrosa and Chrysopogon montanus. In direct contrast with the ordinary desert-types they
have a thin epidermis, with exposed stomata, features that ordinarily were characteristic of
species of moister regions. They are annuals, growing rapidly, blooming and ripening their
seeds before the height of the dry season. Evidently they are to be considered as the remainder
of the flora of a previous period, when the soil had not yet become arid. They might be called
relics. Of course they are small and dwarf-like, when compared with allied forms.

These curious little desert-plants disprove the Nagelian views in two important points. First,
they show that extreme conditions do not necessarily change the organisms subjected to them,
in a desirable direction. During the many centuries that these plants must have existed in
the desert in annual generations, no single feature in the anatomical structure has become
changed. Hence the conclusion that small leaves, abundant rootstocks and short [451] stems,
a dense foliage, a strongly cuticularized epidermis, few and narrow air-cavities in the tissues
and all the long range of characteristics of typical desert-plants are not a simple result
of the influence of climate and soil. There is no direct influence in this sense.

The second point, in which Nageli's idea is broken down by Holtermann's observations, results
from the behavior of the plants of the Kaits desert when grown or sown on garden soil. When
treated in this way they at once lose the only peculiarity which might be considered as a consequence
of the desert-life of their ancestors, their dwarf stature. They behave exactly like the alpine
plants in Bonnier's experiments, and with even more striking differences. In the desert they
attain a height of a few centimeters, but in the garden they attain half a meter and more in
height. Nothing in the way of stability has resulted from the action of the dry soil, not even
in such a minor point as the height of the stems.

From the facts and discussions we may conclude that double adaptation is not induced by external
influences, at least not in any way in which it might be of use to the plant. It may arise
by some unknown cause, or may not be incited at all. In the first case the plant becomes capable
of living under the alternating [452] circumstances, and if growing near the limits of such
regions it will overlap and get into the new area. All other species, which did not acquire
the double habit, are of course excluded, with such curious exceptions as those of Kaits. The
typical vegetation under such extreme conditions however, finds explanation quite as well by
the one as by the other view.

Leaving these obvious cases of double adaptation, there still remains one point to be considered.
It is the dwarf stature of so many desert and alpine plants. Are these dwarfs only the extremes
of the normal fluctuating variability, or is their stature to be regarded as the expression
of some peculiar adaptive but latent quality? It is as yet difficult to decide this question,
because statistical studies of this form of variability are still wanting. The capacity of
ripening the seed on individuals of dwarf stature however, is not at all a universal accompaniment
of a variable height. Hence it cannot be considered as a necessary consequence of it. On the
other hand the dwarf varieties of numerous garden-plants, as for instance: of larkspurs, snapdragon,
opium-poppies and others are quite stable and thence are obviously due to peculiar characteristics.
Such characteristics, if combined with tall stature into a pair of antagonists, would yield
a double [453] adaptation, and on such a base a hypothetical explanation could no doubt be
rested. Instead of discussing this problem from the theoretical side, I prefer to compare those
species which are capable of assuming a dwarf stature under less uncommon conditions than those
of alpine and desert-plants. Many weeds of our gardens and many wild species have this capacity.
They become very tall, with large leaves, richly branched stems and numerous flowers in moist
and rich soil. On bad soil, or if germinating too late, when the season is drier, they remain
very small, producing only a few leaves and often limiting themselves to one flower-head. This
is often seen with thorn-apples and amaranths, and even with oats and rye, and is notoriously
the case with buckwheat. Gauchery has observed that the extremes differ often as much from
one another as 1:10. In the case of the Canadian horseweed or Erigeron canadensis, which is
widely naturalized in Europe, the tallest specimens are often twenty-five times as tall as
the smallest, the difference increasing to greater extremes, if besides the main stem, the
length of the numerous branches of the tall plants are taken into consideration. Other instances
studied by the French investigator are Erythraea pulchella and Calamintha Acinos.

[454] Dimorphism is of universal occurrence in the whole vegetable kingdom. In some cases it
is typical, and may easily be discerned from extreme fluctuating variability. In others the
contrast is not at all obvious, and a closer investigation is needed to decide between the
two possibilities. Sometimes the adaptive quality is evident, in other cases it is not. A large
number of plants bear two kinds of leaves linked with one another by intermediate forms. Often
the first leaves of a shoot, or those of accidentally strong shoots, exhibit deviating shapes,
and the usefulness of such occurrences seems to be quite doubtful. The elongation of stems
and linear leaves, and the reduction of lateral organs in darkness, is manifestly an adaptation.
Many plants have stolons with double adaptations which enable them to retain their character
of underground stems with bracts or to exchange it for the characteristics of erect stems with
green leaves according to the outer circumstances. In some shrubs and trees the capacity of
a number of buds to produce either flowers or shoots with leaves seems to be in the same condition.
The capacity of producing spines is also a double adaptation, active on dry and arid soil and
latent in a moist climate or under cultivation, as with the wild and cultivated apple, and
in the experiments of Lothelier [455] with Berberis, Lycium and other species, which lose their
spines in damp air.

In some conifers the evolution of horizontal branches may be modified by simply turning the
buds upside down. Or the lateral branches can be induced to become erect stems by cutting off
the normal summit of a tree. Numerous organs and functions lie dormant until aroused by external
agencies, and many other cases could be cited, showing the wide occurrence of double adaptation.

There are, however, two points, which should not be passed over without some mention. One of
them is the influence of sun and shade on leaves, and the other the atavistic forms, often
exhibited during the juvenile period.

The leaves of many plants, and especially those of some shrubs and trees, have the capacity
of adapting themselves either to intense or to diffuse light. On the circumference of the crown
of a tree the light is stronger and the leaves a small and thick, with a dense tissue. In the
inner parts of the crown the light is weak and the leaves are broader in order to get as much
of it as possible. They become larger but thinner, consisting often of a small number of cell
layers. The definitive formation is made in extreme youth, often even during the previous summer,
at the time of the [456] very first evolution of the young organs within the buds. Iris, and
Lactuca Scariola or the prickly lettuce, and many other plants afford similar instances. As
the definitive decision must be made in these cases long before the direct influence of the
conditions which would make the change useful is felt, it is hardly conceivable how they could
be ascribed to this cause.

It is universally known that many plants show deviating features when very young, and that
these often remind us of the characters of their probable ancestors. Many plants that must
have been derived from their nearest systematic relatives, chiefly by reductions, are constantly
betraying this relation by a repetition of the ancestral marks during their youth.

There can be hardly a doubt that the general law of natural selection prevails in such cases
as it does in others. Or stated otherwise, it is very probable, that in most cases the atavistic
characters have been retained during youth because of their temporary usefulness. Unfortunately,
our knowledge of utility of qualities is as yet, very incomplete. Here we must assume that
what is ordinarily spared by natural selection is to be considered as useful, [457] until direct
experimental investigations have been made.

So it is for instance with the submerged leaves of water-plants. As a rule they are linear,
or if compound, are reduced to densely branching filiform threads. Hence we may conclude that
this structure is of some use to them. Now two European and some corresponding American species
of water-parsnip, the Sium latifolium and Berula angustifolia with their allies, are umbellifers,
which bear pinnate instead of bi- or tri-pinnate leaves. But the young plants and even the
young shoots when developing from the rootstocks under water comply with the above rule, producing
very compound, finely and pectinately dissected leaves. From a systematic point of view these
leaves indicate the origin of the water-parsnips from ordinary umbellifers, which generally
have bi- and tripinnate leaves.

Similar cases of double adaptation, dependent on external conditions at different periods of
the evolution of the plant are very numerous. They are most marked among leguminous plants,
as shown by the trifoliolate leaves of the thorn-broom and allies, which in the adult state
have green twigs destitute of leaves.

As an additional instance of dimorphism and probable double adaptation to unrecognized external
[458] conditions I might point to the genus Acacia. As we have seen in a previous lecture some
of the numerous species of this genus bear bi-pinnate leaves, while others have only flattened
leaf-stalks. According to the prevailing systematic conceptions, the last must have been derived
from the first by the loss of the blades and the corresponding increase of size and superficial
extension of the stalk. In proof of this view they exhibit, as we have described, the ancestral
characters in the young plantlets, and this production of bi-pinnate leaves has probably been
retained at the period of the corresponding negative mutations, because of some distinct, though
still unknown use.

Summarizing the results of this discussion, we may state that useful dimorphism, or double
adaptation, is a substitution of characters quite analogous to the useless dimorphism of cultivated
ever-sporting varieties and the stray occurrence of hereditary monstrosities. The same laws
and conditions prevail in both cases.

[459]

E. MUTATIONS

LECTURE XVI

THE ORIGIN OF THE PELORIC TOAD-FLAX

I have tried to show previously that species, in the ordinary sense of the word, consist of
distinct groups of units. In systematic works these groups are all designated by the name of
varieties, but it is usually granted that the units of the system are not always of the same
value. Hence we have distinguished between elementary species and varieties proper. The first
are combined into species whose common original type is now lost or unknown, and from their
characters is derived an hypothetical image of what the common ancestor is supposed to have
been. The varieties proper are derived in most cases from still existing types, and therefore
are subjoined to them. A closer investigation has shown that this derivation is ordinarily
produced by the loss of some definite attribute, or by the re-acquisition of an apparently
[460] lost character. The elementary species, on the other hand, must have arisen by the production
of new qualities, each new acquisition constituting the origin of a new elementary form.

Moreover we have seen, that such improvements and such losses constitute sharp limits between
the single unit-forms. Every type, of course, varies around an average, and the extremes of
one form may sometimes reach or even overlap those of the nearest allies, but the offspring
of the extremes always return to the type. The transgression is only temporary and a real transition
of one form to another does not come within ordinary features of fluctuating variability. Even
in the cases of eversporting varieties, where two opposite types are united within one race,
and where the succeeding individuals are continually swinging from one extreme to the other,
passing through a wide range of intermediate steps, the limits of the variety are as sharply
defined and as free from real transgression as in any other form.

In a complete systematic enumeration of the real units of nature, the elementary species and
varieties are thus observed to be discontinuous and separated by definite gaps. Every unit
may have its youth, may lead a long life in the adult state and may finally die. But through
[461] the whole period of its existence it remains the same, at the end as sharply defined
from its nearest allies as in the beginning. Should some of the units die out, the gaps between
the neighboring ones will become wider, as must often have been the case. Such segregations,
however important and useful for systematic distinctions, are evidently only of secondary value,
when considering the real nature of the units themselves.

We may now take up the other side of the problem. The question arises as to how species and
varieties have originated. According to the Darwinian theory they have been produced from one
another, the more highly differentiated ones from the simpler, in a graduated series from the
most simple forms to the most complicated and most highly organized existing types. This evolution
of course must have been regular and continuous, diverging from time to time into new directions,
and linking all organisms together into one common pedigree. All lacunae in our present system
are explained by Darwin as due to the extinction of the forms, which previously filled them.

Since Lamarck first propounded the conception of a common origin for all living beings, much
has been done to clear up our ideas as to the real nature of this process. The broader [462]
aspect of the subject, including the general pedigree of the animal and vegetable kingdom,
may be said to have been outlined by Darwin and his followers, but this phase of the subject
lies beyond the limits of our present discussion.

The other phase of the problem is concerned with the manner in which the single elementary
species and varieties have sprung from one another. There is no reason to suppose that the
world is reaching the end of its development, and so we are to infer that the production of
new species and varieties is still going on. In reality, new forms are observed to originate
from time to time, both wild and in cultivation, and such facts do not leave any doubt as to
their origin from other allied types, and according to natural and general laws.

In the wild state however, and even with cultivated plants of the field and garden, the conditions,
though allowing of the immediate observation of the origination of new forms, are by no means
favorable for a closer inquiry into the real nature of the process. Therefore I shall postpone
the discussion of the facts till another lecture, as their bearing will be more easily understood
after having dealt with more complete cases.

These can only be obtained by direct experimentation. Comparative studies, of course, [463]
are valuable for the elucidation of general problems and broad features of the whole pedigree,
but the narrower and more practical question as to the genetic relation of the single forms
to one another must be studied in another way, by direct experiment. The exact methods of the
laboratory must be used, and in this case the garden is the laboratory. The cultures must be
guarded with the strictest care and every precaution taken to exclude opportunities for error.
The parents and grandparents and their offspring must be kept pure and under control, and all
facts bearing upon the birth or origin of the new types should be carefully recorded.

Two great difficulties have of late stood in the way of such experimental investigation. One
of them is of a theoretical, the, other of a practical nature. One is the general belief in
the supposed slowness of the process, the other is the choice of adequate material for experimental
purposes. Darwin's hypothesis of natural selection as the means by which new types arise, is
now being generally interpreted as stating the slow transformation of ordinary fluctuating
divergencies from the average type into specific differences. But in doing so it is overlooked
that Quetelet's law of fluctuating variability was not yet discovered at the time, when Darwin
propounded his theory. So there [464] is no real and intimate connection between these two
great conceptions. Darwin frequently pointed out that a long period of time might be needed
for slow improvements, and was also a condition for the occurrence of rare sports. In any case
those writers have been in error, according to my opinion, who have refrained from experimental
work on the origin of species, on account of this narrow interpretation of Darwin's views.
The choice of the material is quite another question, and obviously all depends upon this choice.
Promising instances must be sought for, but as a rule the best way is to test as many plants
as possible. Many of them may show nothing of interest, but some might lead to the desired end.

For to-day's lecture I have chosen an instance, in which the grounds upon which the choice
was based are very evident. It is the origin of the peloric toad-flax (Linaria vulgaris peloria).

The ground for this choice lies simply in the fact that the peloric toad-flax is known to have
originated from the ordinary type at different times and in different countries, under more
or less divergent conditions. It had arisen from time to time, and hence I presumed that there
was a chance to see it arise again. If this should happen under experimental circumstances
[465] the desired evidence might easily be gathered. Or, to put it in other words, we must
try to arrange things so as to be present at the time when nature produces another of these
rare changes.

There was still another reason for choosing this plant for observational work. The step from
the ordinary toad-flax to the peloric form is short, and it appears as if it might be produced
by slow conversion. The ordinary species produces from time to time stray peloric flowers.
These occur at the base of the raceme, or rarely in the midst of it. In other species they
are often seen at the summit. Terminal pelories are usually regular, having five equal spurs.
Lateral pelories are generally of zygomorphic structure, though of course in a less degree
than the normal bilabiate flowers, but they have unequal spurs, the middle one being of the
ordinary length, the two neighboring being shorter, and those standing next to the opposite
side of the flower being the shortest of all. This curious remainder of the original, symmetrical
structure of the flower seems to have been overlooked hitherto by the investigators of peloric
toad-flaxes.

The peloric variety of this plant is characterized by its producing only peloric flowers. No
single bilabiate or one-spurred flower remains.

[466] I once had a lot of nearly a hundred specimens of this fine variety, and it was a most
curious and beautiful sight to observe the many thousands of nearly regular flowers blooming
at the same time. Some degree of variability was of course present, even in a large measure.
The number of the spurs varied between four and six, transgressing these limits in some instances,
but never so far as to produce really one-spurred flowers. Comparing this variety with the
ordinary type, two ways of passing over from the one to the other might be imagined. One would
entail a slow increase of the number of the peloric flowers on each plant, combined with a
decrease of the number of the normal ones, the other a sudden leap from one extreme to the
other without any intermediate steps. The latter might easily be overlooked in field observations
and their failure may not have the value of direct proof. They could never be overlooked, on
the other hand, in experimental culture.

The first record of the peloric toad-flax is that of Zioberg, a student of Linnaeus, who found
it in the neighborhood of Upsala. This curious discovery was described by Rudberg in his dissertation
in the year 1744. Soon afterwards other localities were discovered by Link near Gottingen in
Germany about 1791 and afterwards [467] in the vicinity of Berlin, as stated by Ratzeburg,
1825. Many other localities have since been indicated for it in Europe, and in my own country
some have been noted of late, as for instance near Zandvoort in 1874 and near Oldenzaal in
1896. In both these last named cases the peloric form arose spontaneously in places which had
often been visited by botanists before the recorded appearance, and therefore, without any
doubt, they must have been produced directly and independently by the ordinary species which
grows in the locality. The same holds good for other occurrences of it. In many instances the
variety has been recorded to disappear after a certain lapse of time, the original specimens
dying out and no new ones being produced. Linaria is a perennial herb, multiplying itself easily
by buds growing on the roots, but even with this means of propagation its duration seems to
have definite limits.

There is one other important point arguing strongly for the independent appearance of the peloric
form in its several localities. It is the difficulty of fertilization and the high degree of
sterility, even if artificially pollinated. Bees and bumble-bees are unable to crawl into the
narrow tubular flowers, and to bring the fertilizing pollen to the stigma. Ripe capsules with
seeds [468] have never been seen in the wild state. The only writer who succeeded in sowing
seeds of the peloric variety was Wildenow and he got only very few seedlings. But even in artificial
pollination the result is the same, the anthers seeming to be seriously affected by the change.
I tried both self-fertilization and cross-pollination, and only with utmost care did I succeed
in saving barely a hundred seeds. In order to obtain them I was compelled to operate on more
than a thousand flowers on about a dozen peloric plants.

The variety being wholly barren in nature, the assumption that the plants in the different
recorded localities might have a common origin is at once excluded. There must have been at
least nearly as many mutations as localities. This strengthens the hope of seeing such a mutation
happen in one's own garden. It should also be remembered that peloric flowers are known to
have originated in quite a number of different species of Linaria, and also with many of the
allied species within the range of the Labiatiflorae.

I will now give the description of my own experiment. Of course this did not give the expected
result in the first year. On the contrary, it was only after eight years' work that I had the
good fortune of observing the mutation. [469] But as the whole life-history of the preceding
generations had been carefully observed and recorded, the exact interpretation of the fact
was readily made.

My culture commenced in the year 1886. I chose some plants of the normal type with one or two
peloric flowers besides the bilabiate majority which I found on a locality in the neighborhood
of Hilversum in Holland. I planted the roots in my garden and from them had the first flowering
generation in the following summer. From their seeds I grew the second generation in three
following years. They flowered profusely and produced in 1889 only one, and in 1890 only two
peloric structures. I saved the seeds in 1889 and had in 1890-1891 the third generation. These
plants likewise flowered only in the second year, and gave among some thousands of symmetrical
blossoms, only one five-spurred flower. I pollinated this flower myself, and it produced abundant
fruit with enough seeds for the entire culture in 1892, and they only were sown.

Until this year my generations required two years each, owing to the perennial habit of the
plants. In this way the prospects of the culture began to decrease, and I proposed to try to
heighten my chances by having a new generation yearly. With this intention I sowed the [470]
selected seeds in a pan in the glasshouse of my laboratory and planted them out as soon as
the young stems had reached a length of some few centimeters. Each seedling was put in a separate
pot, in heavily manured soil. The pots were kept under glass until the beginning of June, and
the young plants produced during this period a number of secondary stems from the curious hypocotylous
buds which are so characteristic of the species. These stems grew rapidly and as soon as they
were strong enough, the plants were put into the beds. They all, at least nearly all, some
twenty specimens, flowered in the following month.

I observed only one peloric flower among the large number present. I took the plant bearing
this flower and one more for the culture of the following year, and destroyed all others. These
two plants grew on the same spot, and were allowed to fertilize each other by the agency of
the bees, but were kept isolated from any other congener. They flowered abundantly, but produced
only one-spurred bilabiate flowers during the whole summer. They matured more than 10 cu. cm.
of seeds.

It is from this pair of plants that my peloric race has sprung. And as they are the ancestors
of the first closely observed case of peloric mutation, [471] it seems worth while to give
some details regarding their fertilization.

Isolated plants of Linaria vulgaris do not produce seed, even if freely pollinated by bees.
Pollen from other plants is required. This requirement is not at all restricted to the genus
Linaria, as many instances are known to occur in different families. It is generally assumed
that the pollen of any other individual of the same species is capable of producing fertilization,
although it is to be said that a critical examination has been made in but few instances.

This, however, is not the case, at least not in the present instance. I have pollinated a number
of plants, grown from seed of the same strain and combined them in pairs, and excluded the
visits of insects, and pollen other than that of the plant itself and that of the specimen
with which it was paired. The result was that some pairs were fertile and others barren. Counting
these two groups of pairs, I found them nearly equal in number, indicating thereby that for
any given individual the pollen of half of the others is potent, but that of the other half
impotent. From these facts we may conclude the presence of a curious case of dimorphy, analogous
to that proposed for the primroses, but without visible differentiating marks in the flowers.
At least such opposite characters [472] have as yet not been ascertained in the case of our
toad-flax.

In order to save seed from isolated plants it is necessary, for this reason, to have at least
two individuals, and these must belong to the two physiologically different types. Now in the
year 1892, as in other years, my plants, though separated at the outset by distances of about
20 cm. from each other, threw out roots of far greater length, growing in such a way as to
abolish the strict isolation of the individuals. Any plot may produce several stems from such
roots, and it is manifestly impossible to decide whether they all belong to one original plant
or to the mixed roots of several individuals. No other strains were grown on the same bed with
my plants however, and so I considered all the stems of the little group as belonging to one
plant. But their perfect fertility showed, according to the experience described, that there
must have been at least two specimens mingled together.

Returning now to the seeds of this pair of plants, I had, of course, not the least occasion
to ascribe to it any higher value than the harvest of former years. The consequence was that
I had no reason to make large sowings, and grew only enough young plants to have about 50 in
bloom in the summer of 1894. Among [473] these, stray peloric flowers were observed in somewhat
larger number than in the previous generations, 11 plants bearing one or two, or even three
such abnormalities. This however, could not be considered as a real advance, since such plants
may occur in varying, though ordinarily small numbers in every generation.

Besides them a single plant was seen to bear only peloric flowers; it produced racemes on several
stems and their branches. All were peloric without exception. I kept it through the winter,
taking care to preserve a complete isolation of its roots. The other plants were wholly destroyed.
Such annihilation must include both the stems and roots and the latter of course requires considerable
labor. The following year, however, gave proof of the success of the operation, since my plant
bloomed luxuriously for the second time and remained true to the type of the first year, producing
peloric flowers exclusively.

Here we have the first experimental mutation of a normal into a peloric race. Two facts were
clear and simple. The ancestry was known for over a period of four generations, living under
the ordinary care and conditions of an experimental garden, isolated from other toad-flaxes,
but freely fertilized by bees or at times by myself. This ancestry was quite constant as to
[474] the peloric peculiarity, remaining true to the wild type as it occurs everywhere in my
country, and showing in no respect any tendency to the production of a new variety.

The mutation took place at once. It was a sudden leap from the normal plants with very rare
peloric flowers to a type exclusively peloric. No intermediate steps were observed. The parents
themselves had borne thousands of flowers during two summers, and these were inspected nearly
every day, in the hope of finding some pelories and of saving their seed separately. Only one
such flower was seen. If there had been more, say a few in every hundred flowers, it might
be allowable to consider them as previous stages, showing a preparation of the impending change.
But nothing of this kind was observed. There was simply no visible preparation for the sudden leap.

This leap, on the other hand, was full and complete. No reminiscence of the former condition
remained. Not a single flower on the mutated plant reverted to the previous type. All were
thoroughly affected by the new attribute, and showed the abnormally augmented number of spurs,
the tubular structure of the corolla and the round and narrow entrance of its throat. The whole
plant departed absolutely from the old type of its progenitors.

[475] Three ways were open to continue my experiment. The first was indicated by the abundant
harvest from the parent-plants of the mutation. It seemed possible to compare the numerical
proportion of the mutated seeds with those of normal plants. In order to ascertain this proportion
I sowed the greatest part of my 10 cu. cm. of seed and planted some 2,000 young plants in little
pots with well-manured soil. I got some 1,750 flowering plants and observed among them 16 wholly
peloric individuals. The numerical proportion of the mutation was therefore in this instance
to be calculated equal to about 1% of the whole crop.

This figure is of some importance. For it shows that the chance of finding mutations requires
the cultivation of large groups of individuals. One plant in each hundred may mutate, and cultures
of less than a hundred specimens must therefore be entirely dependent on chance for the appearance
of new forms, even if such should accidentally have been produced and lay dormant in the seed.
In other cases mutations may be more numerous, or on the contrary, more rare. But the chance
of mutative changes in larger numbers is manifestly much reduced by this experiment, and they
may be expected to form a very small proportion of the culture.

[476] The second question which arose from the above result was this. Could the mutation be
repeated? Was it to be ascribed to some latent cause which might be operative more than once?
Was there some hidden tendency to mutation, which, ordinarily weak, was strengthened in my
cultures by some unknown influence? Was the observed mutation to be explained by a common cause
with the other cases recorded by field-observations? To answer this question I had only to
continue my experiment, excluding the mutated individuals from any intercrossing with their
brethren. To this end I saved the seeds from duly isolated groups in different years and sowed
them at different times. For various causes I was not prepared to have large cultures from
these seeds, but notwithstanding this, the mutation repeated itself. In one instance I obtained
two, in another, one peloric plant with exclusively many-spurred flowers. As is easily understood,
these were related as "nieces" to the first observed mutants. They originated in quite the
same way, by a sudden leap, without any preparation and without any intermediate steps.

Mutation is proved by this experience to be of an iterative nature. It is the expression of
some concealed condition, or as it is generally [477] called, of some hidden tendency. The
real nature of this state of the hereditary qualities is as yet wholly unknown. It would not
be safe to formulate further conclusions before the evidence offered by the evening-primroses
is considered.

Thirdly, the question arises, whether the mutation is complete, not only as to the morphologic
character, but also as to the hereditary constitution of the mutated individuals. But here
unfortunately the high degree of sterility of the peloric plants, as previously noted, makes
the experimental evidence a thing of great difficulty. During the course of several years I
isolated and planted together the peloric individuals already mentioned, all in all some twenty
plants. Each individual was nearly absolutely sterile when treated with its own pollen, and
the aid of insects was of no avail. I intercrossed my plants artificially, and pollinated more
than a thousand flowers. Not a single one gave a normal fruit, but some small and nearly rudimentary
capsules were produced, bearing a few seeds. From these I had 119 flowering plants, out of
which 106 were peloric and 13 one-spurred. The great majority, some 90%, were thus shown to
be true to their new type. Whether the 10% reverting ones were truly atavists, or whether they
were [478] only vicinists, caused by stray pollen grains from another culture, cannot of course
be decided with sufficient certitude.

Here I might refer to the observations concerning the invisible dimorphous state of the flowers
of the normal toad-flax. Individuals of the same type, when fertilized with each other, are
nearly, but not absolutely, sterile. The yield of seeds of my peloric plants agrees fairly
well with the harvest which I have obtained from some of the nearly sterile pairs of individuals
in my former trial. Hence the suggestion is forced upon us that perhaps, owing to some unknown
cause, all the peloric individuals of my experiment belonged to one and the same type, and
were sterile for this reason only. If this is true, then it is to be presumed that all previous
investigators have met the same condition, each having at hand only one of the two required
types. And this discussion has the further advantage of showing the way, in which perhaps a
full and constant race of peloric toad-flaxes may be obtained. Two individuals of different
type are required to start from. They seem as yet never to have arisen from one group of mutations.
But if it were possible to combine the products of two mutations obtained in different countries
and under different conditions, there would be a chance [479] that they might belong to the
supposed opposite types, and thus be fertile with one another. My peloric plants are still
available, and the occurrence of this form elsewhere would give material for a successful experiment.
The probability thereof is enhanced by the experience that my peloric plants bear large capsules
and a rich harvest of seeds when fertilized from plants of the normal one-spurred race, while
they remain nearly wholly barren by artificial fertilization with others. I suppose that they
are infertile with the normal toad-flaxes of their own sexual disposition, but fertile with
those of the opposite constitution. At all events the fact that they may bear abundant seed
when properly pollinated is an indication of successful experiments on the possibility of gaining
a hereditary race with exclusively peloric flowers. And such a race would be a distinct gain
for sundry physiologic inquiries, and perhaps not wholly destitute of value from an horticultural
point of view.

Returning now to the often recorded occurrence of peloric toad-flaxes in the wild state and
recalling our discussion about the improbability of a dispersion from one locality to another
by seed, and the probability of independent origin for most of these cases, we are confronted
with the conception that a latent [480] tendency to mutation must be universally present in
the whole species. Another observation, although it is of a negative character, gains in importance
from this point of view. I refer to the total lack of intermediate steps between normal and
peloric individuals. If such links had ordinarily been produced previous to the purely peloric
state they would no doubt have been observed from time to time. This is so much the more probable
as Linaria is a perennial herb, and the ancestors of a mutation might still be in a flowering
condition together with their divergent offspring. But no such intermediates are on record.
The peloric toad-flaxes are, as a rule, found surrounded by the normal type, but without intergrading
forms. This discontinuity has already been insisted upon by Hofmeister and others, even at
the time when the theory of descent was most under discussion, and any link would surely have
been produced as a proof of a slow and continuous change. But no such proof has been found,
and the conclusion seems admissible that the mutation of toad-flaxes ordinarily, if not universally,
takes place by a sudden step. Our experiment may simply be considered as a thoroughly controlled
instance of an often recurring phenomenon. It teaches us how, in the [481] main, the peloric
mutations must be assumed to proceed.

This conception may still be broadened. We may include in it all similar occurrences, in allied
and other species. There is hardly a limit to the possibilities which are opened up by this
experience. But it will be well to refrain from hazardous theorizing, and consider only those
cases which may be regarded as exact repetitions of the same phenomenon and of which our culture
is one of the most recent instances on record. We will limit ourselves to the probable origin
of peloric variations at large, of which little is known, but some evidence may be derived
from the recorded facts. Only one case can be said to be directly analogous to our observations.

This refers to the peloric race of the common snapdragon, or Antirrhinum majus of our gardens.
It is known to produce peloric races from time to time in the same way as does the toadflax.
But the snapdragon is self-fertile and so is its peloric variety. Some cases are relatively
old, and some of them have been recorded and in part observed by Darwin. Whence they have sprung
and in what manner they were produced, seems never to have been noted. Others are of later
origin, and among these one or two varieties have been accidentally produced [482] in the nursery
of Mr. Chr. Lorenz in Erfurt, and are now for sale, the seeds being guaranteed to yield a large
proportion of peloric individuals. The peloric form in this case appeared at once, but was
not isolated, and was left free to visiting insects, which of course crossed it with the surrounding
varieties. Without doubt the existence of two color-varieties of the peloric type, one of a
very dark red, indicating the "Black prince" variety as the pollen-parent, and the other with
a white tube of the corolla, recalling the form known as "Delila," is due to these crossings.
I had last year (1903) a large lot of plants, partly normal and partly peloric, but evidently
of hybrid origin, from seeds from this nursery, showing moreover all intermediate steps between
nearly wholly peloric individuals and apparently normal ones. I have saved the seeds of the
isolated types and before seeing the flowers of their offspring, nothing can be said about
the purity and constancy of the type, when freed from hybrid admixtures. The peloric snapdragon
has five small unequal spurs at the base of its long tube, and in this respect agrees with
the peloric toad-flax.

Other pelories are terminal and quite regular, and occur in some species of Linaria, where
I observed them in Linaria dalmatica. The [483] terminal flowers of many branches were large
and beautifully peloric, bearing five long and equal spurs. About their origin and inheritance
nothing is known.

A most curious terminal pelory is that of the common foxglove or Digitalis purpurea. As we
have seen in a previous lecture, it is an old variety. It was described and figured for the
first time by Vrolik of Amsterdam, and the original specimens of his plates are still to be
seen in the collections of the botanic garden of that university. Since his time it has been
propagated by seed as a commercial variety, and may be easily obtained. The terminal flower
of the central stem and those of the branches only are affected, all other flowers being wholly
normal. Almost always it is accompanied by other deviations, among which a marked increase
of the number of the parts of the corolla and other whorls is the most striking. Likewise supernumerary
petals on the outer side of the corolla, and a production of a bud in the center of the capsule
may be often met with. This bud as a rule grows out after the fading away of the flower, bursting
through the green carpels of the unripe fruit, and producing ordinarily a secondary raceme
of flowers. This raceme is a weak but exact repetition of the first, bearing symmetrical foxgloves
all [484] along and terminating in a peloric structure. On the branches these anomalies are
more or less reduced, according to the strength of the branch, and conforming to the rule of
periodicity, given in our lecture on the "five-leaved" clover. Through all this diminution
the peloric type remains unchanged and therefore becomes so much the purer, the weaker the
branches on which it stands.

I am not sure whether such peloric flowers have ever been purely pollinated and their seed
saved separately, but I have often observed that the race comes pure from the seed of the zygomorphic
flowers. It is as yet doubtful whether it is a half race or a double race, and whether it might
be purified and strengthened by artificial selection. Perhaps the determination of the hereditary
percentage described when dealing with the tricotyls might give the clue to the acquisition
of a higher specialized race. The variety is old and widely disseminated, but must be subjected
to quite a number of additional experiments before it can be said to be sufficiently understood.

The most widespread peloric variety is that of Gloxinia. It has erect instead of drooping flowers;
and with the changed position the structure is also changed. Like other pelories it has five
equal stamens instead of four unequal [485] ones, and a corolla with five equal segments instead
of an upper and a lower lip. It shows the peloric condition in all of its flowers and is often
combined with a small increase of the number of the parts of the whorls. It is for sale under
the name of erecta, and may be had in a wide range of color-types. It seems to be quite constant
from seed.

Many other instances of peloric flowers are on record. Indian cress or Tropaeolum majus loses
the spur in some double varieties and with it most of its symmetrical structure; it seems to
be considered justly as a peloric malformation. Other species produce such anomalies only from
time to time and nothing is known about their hereditary tendency. One of the most curious
instances is the terminal flower of the raceme of the common laburnum, which loses its whole
papilionaceous character and becomes as regularly quinate as a common buttercup.

Some families are more liable to pelorism than others. Obviously all the groups, the flowers
of which are not symmetrical, are to be excluded. But then we find that labiates and their
allies among the dicotyledonous plants, and orchids among the monocotyledonous ones are especially
subjected to this alteration. In both groups many genera and a long list of species [486] could
be quoted as proof. The family of the labiates seems to be essentially rich in terminal pelories,
as for instance in the wild sage or Salvia and the dead-nettle or Lamium. Here the pelories
have long and straight corolla-tubes, which are terminated by a whorl of four or five segments.
Such forms often occur in the wild state and seem to have a geographic distribution as narrowly
circumscribed as in the case of many small species. Those of the labiates chiefly belong to
southern Europe and are unknown at least in some parts of the other countries. On the contrary
terminal pelories of Scrophularia nodosa are met with from time to time in Holland. Such facts
clearly point to a common origin, and as only the terminal flowers are affected by the malformation,
the fertility of the whole plant is evidently not seriously infringed upon.

