"Dicky, you have been such a help to me this summer, I'd like to give you something to make
you very happy. Let us count the money in your bank--you earned it all yourself--and see what
we could buy with it. To be sure, Bess wants a waterproof and Dot needs rubbers, but we do
want our little boy to have a birthday present."

"Oh, mamma," cried he, clapping his hands, "what a happy day it will be! I shall buy that tool-box
at the store round the corner! It's such a beauty, with a little saw, a claw-hammer, a chisel,
a screw-driver, and everything a carpenter needs. It costs just a dollar, exactly!"

Then they unscrewed the bank and found ninety-five cents, so that it would take only five cents
more to make the dollar. Dicky earned that before he went to bed, by piling up wood for a neighbor;
and his mamma changed all the little five and ten cent pieces into two bright half- dollars
that chinked together joyfully in his trousers pocket.

The next morning he was up almost at the same time the robins and chimney-swallows flew out
of their nests; jumped down the stairs, two at a time, and could scarcely eat his breakfast,
such a hurry as he was in to buy the precious tool-box. He opened the front door, danced down
the wooden steps, and there on the curb in front of the house stood a little girl, with a torn
gingham apron, no shoes, no hat, and her nut-brown curls flying in the wind; worse than all,
she was crying as if her heart would break.

"Why, little girl, what's the matter?" asked Dicky, for he was a kind- hearted boy, and didn't
like to see people cry.

She took down her apron and sobbed:--

"Oh, I've lost my darling little brown dog, and I can never get him back!"

"Why, has somebody poisoned him--is he dead?" said Dicky.

She shook her head.

"No, oh no! The pound-man took him away in his cart--my sweet little bit of a dog; he has such
a cunning little curly tail, and long, silky ears; he does all kinds of tricks, and they'll
never let me in at home without Bruno."

And then she began to cry harder than ever, so that Dicky hardly knew what to say to her.

Now the pound, children, is a very large place somewhere near the city, with a high fence all
around it, and inside are kept colts and horses, the little calves and mother cows, and the
sheep and goats that run away from home, or are picked up by the roadside. The pound- man rides
along the street in a big cart, which has a framework of slats built over it, so that it looks
something like a chicken-coop on wheels, and in it--some of you have seen him do it--he puts
the poor dogs that haven't collars on, and whose masters haven't paid for them. Then he rides
away and locks them up in the great place inside the high fence, and they have to stay awhile.
The dogs are killed if nobody comes for them.

"Well," said Dicky, "let us go and see the pound-man. Do you know where he lives?"

"Yes, indeed," answered the little girl, whose name was Lola. "I ran behind the cart all the
way to the pound. I cried after Bruno, and Bruno whined for me, and poked his nose between
the bars and tried to jump out, but he couldn't. It's a pretty long way there, and the man
is as cross as two sticks."

But they started off, and on and on they walked together, Dicky having tight hold of Lola's
hand, while she told him about the wonderful things Bruno could do; how he could go up and
down a ladder, play the fife and beat the drum, make believe go to sleep, and dance a jig.
It was by these tricks of his that Lola earned money for her uncle, with whom she lived; for
her father and mother were both dead, and there was no one in the whole world who loved the
little girl. The dear mother had died in a beautiful mountain country far across the ocean,
and Lola and Bruno had been sent in a ship over to America. Now this dear, pretty mamma of
Lola's used to sing to her when she rocked her to sleep, and as she grew from a baby to a tiny
girl she learned the little songs to sing to Bruno when he was a little puppy. Would you like
to hear one of them? She used to sing it on the street corners, and at the end of the last
verse that knowing, cunning, darling Bruno would yawn as if he could not keep awake another
minute, tuck his silky head between his two fore paws, shut his bright eyes, give a tired little
sigh, and stay fast asleep until Lola waked him.

When the two children came to the pound and saw the little house at the gate where the pound-man
lived, Dicky was rather frightened and hardly dared walk up the steps; but after a moment he
thought to himself, "I won't be a coward; I haven't done anything wrong." So he gave the door
a rousing knock, for an eight-year-old boy, and brought the man out at once.

"What do you want?" said he, in a gruff voice, for he did seem rather cross.

"Please, sir, I want Lola's little brown dog. He's all the dog she has, and she earns money
with him. He does funny tricks for ten cents."

"How do you think I know whether I've got a brown dog in there or not?" growled he. "You'd
better run home to your mothers, both of you."

At this Lola began to cry again, and Dicky said quickly:--

"Oh, you 'd know him soon as anything,--he has such a cunning curly tail and long silky ears.
His name is Bruno."

"Well," snapped the man, "where's your money? Hurry up! I want my breakfast."

"Money!" cried Dicky, looking at Lola.

"Money!" whispered little Lola, looking back at Dicky.

"Yes," said he, "of course! Give me a dollar and I will give you the dog."

"But," answered Lola, "I haven't a bit of money; I never have any."

"Neither have"--began Dicky; and then his fingers crept into his trousers pocket and felt the
two silver half-dollars that were to buy his tool-box. He had forgotten all about that tool-box
for an hour, but how could he--how could he ever give away that precious money which he had
been so long in getting together, five cents at a time? He remembered the sharp little saw,
the stout hammer, the cunning plane, bright chisel, and shining screw-driver, and his fingers
closed round the money tightly; but just then he looked at pretty little Lola, with her sad
face, her swollen eyes and the brave red lips she was trying to keep from quivering with tears.
That was enough; he quickly drew out the silver dollar, and said to the pound-man:--

"Here's your dollar--give us the dog!"

The man looked much surprised. Not many little eight-year-old boys have a dollar in their trousers
pocket.

"Where did you get it?" he asked.

"I earned every cent of it," answered poor Dicky with a lump in his throat and a choking voice.
"I brought in coal and cut kindlings for most six months before I got enough, and there ain't
another tool-box in the world so good as that one for a dollar--but I want Bruno!"

Then the pound-man showed them a little flight of steps that led up to a square hole in the
wall of the pound, and told them to go up and look through it and see if the dog was there.
They climbed up and put their two rosy eager faces at the rough little window. "Bruno! Bruno!"
called little Lola, and no Bruno came; but every frightened homesick little doggy in that prison
poked up his nose, wagged his tail, and started for the voice. It didn't matter whether they
were Fidos, or Carlos, or Rovers, or Pontos; they knew that they were lonesome little dogs,
and perhaps somebody had remembered them. Lola's tender heart ached at the sight of so many
fatherless and motherless dogs, and she cried,--

"No, no, you poor darlings! I haven't come for you; I want my own Bruno."

Now Bruno was so tired with running from the pound-man, so hungry, so frightened, and so hoarse
with barking that he had gone to sleep; but when he heard Lola's voice singing the song he
knew so well, he started up, and out he bounded half awake--the dearest, loveliest little brown
dog in the world, with a cunning curly tail sticking up in a round bob behind, two long silky
ears that almost touched the ground, and four soft white feet.

Then they were two such glad children, and such a glad little brown dog was Bruno! Why, he
kissed Lola's bare feet and hands and face, and nearly chewed her apron into rags, he was so
delighted to see his mistress again. Even the cross pound-man smiled and said he was the prettiest
puppy, and the smartest, he had ever had in the pound, and that when he had shut him up the
night before he had gone through all his funny tricks in hopes that he would be let out.

Then Dicky and Lola walked back home over the dusty road, Bruno running along beside them,
barking at the birds, sniffing at the squirrels, and chasing all the chickens and kittens he
met on the way, till at last they reached the street corner, where Lola turned to go to her
home, after kissing her new friend and thanking him for being so good and kind to her.

But what about Master Dicky himself, who had lost his tool-box? He didn't feel much like a
smiling boy just then. He crept in at the back door, and when he saw his dear mother's face
in the kitchen he couldn't stand it a minute longer, but burst out crying, and told her all
about it.

"Well, my little son," said she, "I'm very, very sorry. I wish I could give you another dollar,
but I haven't any money to spare. You did just right to help Lola find Bruno, and buy him back
for her, and I'm very proud of my boy; but you can't give away the dollar and have the tool-box
too. So wipe your eyes, and try to be happy. You didn't eat any breakfast, dear, take a piece
of nice bread and sugar."

So Dicky dried his tears and began to eat.

After a while he wanted to wipe his sticky, sugary little mouth, and as he took his clean handkerchief
out of his pocket, two shining, chinking, clinking round things tumbled out on the floor and
rolled under the kitchen table! What could they have been! Why, his two silver half-dollars,
to be sure. And where in the world did they come from, do you suppose? Why, it was the nicest,
funniest thing! The pound-man was not so cross after all, for he thought Lola and Dicky were
two such kind children, and Bruno such a cunning dog, that he could not bear to take Dicky's
dollar away from him; so while the little boy was looking the other way the pound-man just
slipped the money back into Dick's bit of a pocket without saying a word. Wasn't that a beautiful
surprise?

So Dicky ran to the corner store as fast as his feet could carry him, and bought the tool-box.

Every Saturday afternoon he has such a pleasant time playing with it! And who do you suppose
sits on the white kitchen floor with Dot and Bess, watching him make dolls' tables and chairs
with his carpenter's tools? Why, Lola, to be sure, and a little brown dog too, with a cunning
curly tail turned up in a round bob behind, and two long silky ears touching the floor. For
Dick's mamma had such a big heart that I do believe it would have held all the children in
the world, and as Lola's uncle didn't care for her the least little bit, he gave her to this
mamma of Dicky's, who grew to love this little girl almost as well as she loved her own Dicky
and Dot and Bess.

AQUA; OR, THE WATER BABAY. [Footnote: The plan of this story was suggested to me many years
ago; so many, indeed, that I cannot now remember whether it was my friend's own, or whether
he had read something like it in German.--K. D. W.]

"This standing above life, and yet grasping life, and being stirred by life, is what makes
the genuine educator."--Froebel

It was a clear, sunshiny day, and out on the great, wide, open sea there sparkled thousands
and thousands of water-drops. One of these was a merry little fellow who danced on the silver
backs of the fishes as they plunged up and down in the waves, and, no matter how high he sprung,
always came down again plump into his mother's lap.

His mother, you know, was the Ocean, and very beautiful she looked that summer day in her dark
blue dress and white ruffles.

By and by the happy water-drop tired of his play, and looking up to the clear sky above him
thought he would like to have a sail on one of the white floating clouds; so, giving a jump
from the Ocean's arms, he begged the Sun to catch him up and let him go on a journey to see
the earth.

The Sun said "Yes," and took ever so many other drops, too, so that Aqua might not be lonesome
on the way. He did not know this, however, for they all had been changed into fine mist or
vapor. Do you know what vapor is? If you breathe into the air, when it is cold enough, you
will see it coming out of your mouth like steam, and you may also see very hot steam coming
from the nose of a kettle of boiling water. When it is quite near to the earth, where we can
see it, we call it "fog." The water-drops had been changed into vapor because in their own
shape they were too heavy for sunbeams to carry.

Higher and higher they sailed, so fast that they grew quite dizzy; why, in an hour they had
gone over a hundred miles! and how grand it was, to be looking down on the world below, and
sailing faster than fish can swim or birds can fly!

But after a while it grew nearly time for the Sun to go to bed; he became very red in the face,
and began to sink lower and lower, until suddenly he went clear out of sight!

Poor little Aqua could not help being frightened, for every minute it grew darker and colder.
At last he thought he would try to get back to the earth again, so he slipped away, and as
he fell lower and lower he grew heavier, until he was a little round, bright drop again, and
alighted on a rosebush. A lovely velvet bud opened its leaves, and in he slipped among the
crimson cushions, to sleep until morning. Then the leaves opened, and rolling over in his bed
he called out, "Please, dear Sun, take me with you again." So the sunbeams caught him up a
second time, and they flew through the air till the noon-time, when it grew warmer and warmer,
and there was no red rose to hide him, not even a blade of grass to shade his tired head; but
just as he was crying out, "Please, King Sun, let me go back to the dear mother Ocean," the
wind took pity on him, and came with its cool breath and fanned him, with all his brothers,
into a heavy gray cloud, after which he blew them apart and told them to join hands and hurry
away to the earth. Helter-skelter down they went, rolling over each other pell-mell, till with
a patter and clatter and spatter they touched the ground, and all the people cried, "It rains."

Some of the drops fell on a mountain side, Aqua among them, and down the rocky cliff he ran,
leading the way for his brothers. Soon, together they plunged into a mountain brook, which
came foaming and dashing along, leaping over rocks and rushing down the hillside, till in the
valley below they heard the strangest clattering noise.

On the bank stood a flour-mill, and at the door a man whose hat and clothes were gray with dust.

Inside the mill were two great stones, which kept whizzing round and round, faster than a boy's
top could spin, worked by the big wheel outside; and these stones ground the wheat into flour
and the corn into golden meal.

But what giant do you suppose it was who could turn and swing that tremendous wheel, together
with those heavy stones? No giant at all. No one but our tiny little water-drops themselves,
who sprang on it by hundreds and thousands, and whirled it over and over.

The brook emptied into a quiet pond where ducks and geese were swimming. Such a still, beautiful
place it was, with the fuzzy, brown cat-tails lifting their heads above the water, and the
yellow cow lilies, with their leaves like green platters, floating on the top. On the edge
lived the fat green bullfrogs, and in the water were spotted trout, silver shiners, cunning
minnows, and other fish.

Aqua liked this place so much that he stayed a good while, sailing up and down, taking the
ducks' backs for ships and the frogs for horses; but after a time he tired of the dull life,
and he and his brothers floated out over a waterfall and under a bridge for a long, long distance,
until they saw another brook tumbling down a hillside.

"Come, let's join hands!" cried Aqua; and so they all dashed on together till they came to
a broad river which opened its arms to them.

By the help of Aqua and his brothers the beautiful river was able to float heavy ships, though
not so long ago it was only a little rill, through which a child could wade or over which he
could step. Here a vessel loaded with lumber was carried just as easily as if it had been a
paper boat; there a steamer, piled with boxes and barrels, and crowded with people, passed
by, its great wheel crashing through the water and leaving a long trail, as of foamy soapsuds,
behind it. On and ever on the river went, seeking the ocean, and whether it hurried round a
corner or glided smoothly on its way to the sea, there was always something new and strange
to be seen--busy cities, quiet little towns, buzzing sawmills, stone bridges, and harbors full
of all sorts of vessels, large and small, with flags of all colors floating from the masts
and sailors of all countries working on the decks. But Aqua did not stay long in any place,
for as the river grew wider and wider, and nearer and nearer its end, he could almost see the
mother Ocean into whose arms he was joyfully running. She reached out to gather all her children,
the water-drops, into her heart, and closer than all the others nestled our little Aqua.

His travels were over, his pleasures and dangers past; and he was folded again to the dear
mother heart, the safest, sweetest place in all the whole wide world. In warm, still summer
evenings, if you will take a walk on the sea-beach, you will hear the gentle rippling swash
of the waves; and some very wise people think it must be the gurgling voices of Aqua and his
brother water-drops telling each other about their wonderful journey round the world.

MOUFFLOU.

Adapted from Ouida.

"We tell too few stories to children, and those we tell are stories whose heroes are automata
and stuffed dolls,"--Froebel.

Lolo and Moufflou lived far away from here, in a sunny country called Italy.

Lolo was not as strong as you are, and could never run about and play, for he was lame, poor
fellow, and always had to hop along on a little crutch. He was never well enough to go to school,
but as his fingers were active and quick he could plait straw matting and make baskets at home.
He had four or five rosy, bright little brothers and sisters, but they were all so strong and
could play all day so easily that Lolo was not with them much; so Moufflou was his very best
friend, and they were together all day long.

Moufflou was a snow-white poodle, with such soft, curly wool that he looked just like a lamb;
and the man who gave him to the children, when he was a little puppy, had called him "Moufflon,"
which meant sheep in his country.

Lolo's father had died four years before; but he had a mother, who had to work very hard to
keep the children clean and get them enough to eat. He had, too, a big brother Tasso, who worked
for a gardener, and every Saturday night brought his wages home to help feed and clothe the
little children. Tasso was almost a man now, and in that country as soon as you grow to be
a man you have to go away and be a soldier; so Lolo's mother was troubled all the time for
fear that her Tasso would be taken away. If you have money enough, you can always pay some
one to go in your place; but Tasso had no money, and neither had the poor mother, so every
day she was anxious lest her boy might have to go to the wars.

But Lolo and Moufflon knew nothing of all this, and every day, when Lolo was well enough, they
were happy together. They would walk up the streets, or sit on the church, steps, or, if the
day was fair, would perhaps go into the country and bring home great bundles of yellow and
blue and crimson flowers.

The tumble-down old house in which the family lived was near a tall, gray church. It was a
beautiful old church, and all the children loved it, but Lolo most of all. He loved it in the
morning, when the people brought in great bunches of white lilies to trim it; and at noon,
when it was cool and shady; and at sunset, when the long rays shone through the painted windows
and made blue and golden and violet lights on the floor.

One morning Lolo and Moufflou were sitting on the church steps and watching the people, when
a gentleman who was passing by stopped to look at the dog.

"That's a very fine poodle," he said.

"Indeed he is," cried Lolo. "But you should see him on Sundays when he is just washed; then
he is as white as snow."

"Can he do any tricks?" asked the gentleman.

"I should say so," said Lolo, for he had taught the dog all he knew. "He can stand on his hind
legs, he can dance, he can speak, he can make a wheelbarrow of himself, and when I put a biscuit
on his nose and count one, two, three, he will snap and catch the biscuit."

The gentleman said he should like to see some of the tricks, and Moufflou was very glad to
do them, for no one had ever whipped him or hurt him, and he loved to do what his little master
wished. Then the gentleman told Lolo that he had a little boy at home, so weak and so sick
that he could not get up from the sofa, and that he would like to have Lolo bring the poodle
to show him the next day, so he gave Lolo some money, and told him the name of the hotel where
he was staying.

Lolo went hopping home as fast as his little crutch could carry him, and went quickly upstairs
to his mother.

"Oh, mamma!" he said. "See the money a gentleman gave me, and all because dear Moufflou did
his pretty tricks so nicely. Now you can have your coffee every morning, and Tasso can have
his new suit for Sunday." Then he told his mother about the gentleman, and that he had promised
to take Moufflou to see him the next day.

So when the morning came, Moufflou was washed as white as snow, and his pretty curls were tied
up with blue ribbon, and they both trotted off. Moufflou was so proud of his curls and his
ribbon that he hardly liked to put his feet on the ground at all. They were shown to the little
boy's room, where he lay on the sofa very pale and unhappy. A bright little look came into
his eyes when he saw the dog, and he laughed when Moufflou did his tricks. How he clapped his
hands when he saw him make a wheelbarrow, and he tossed them both handfuls of cakes and candies!
Neither the boy nor the dog ever had quite enough to eat, so they nibbled the little cakes
with their sharp, white teeth, and were very glad.

When Lolo got up to go, the little boy began to cry, and said, "Oh, I want the dog. Let me
have the dog!"

"Oh, indeed I can't," said Lolo, "he is my own Moufflou, and I cannot let you have him."

The little boy was so unhappy and cried so bitterly that Lolo was very sorry to see him, and
he went quickly down the stairs with Moufflou. The gentleman gave him more money this time,
and he was so excited and so glad that he went very fast all the way home, swinging himself
over the stones on his little crutch. But when he opened the door, there was his mother crying
as if her heart would break, and all the children were crying in a corner, and even Tasso was
home from his work, looking very unhappy.

"Oh! what is the matter?" cried Lolo. But no one answered him, and Moufflon, seeing them all
so sad, sat down and threw up his nose in the air and howled a long, sad howl. By and by one
of the children told Lolo that at last Tasso had been chosen to be a soldier, and that he must
soon go away to the war. The poor mother said, crying, that she did not know what would become
of her little children through the long, cold winter.

Lolo showed her his money, but she was too unhappy even to care for that, and so by and by
he went to his bed with Moufflou. The dog had always slept at Lolo's feet, but this night he
crept close up by the side of his little master, and licked his hand now and then to show that
he was sorry.

The next morning Lolo and Moufflon went with Tasso to the gardens where he worked, and all
the way along the bright river and among the green trees they talked together of what they
should do when Tasso had gone. Tasso said that if they could only get some money he would not
have to go away to the wars, but he shook his head sadly and knew that no one would lend it
to them. At noon Lolo went home with Moufflon to his dinner. When they had finished (it was
only bean soup and soon eaten), the mother told Lolo that his aunt wanted him to go and see
her that afternoon, and take care of the children while she went out. So Lolo put on his hat,
called Moufflou, and was limping toward the door, when his mother said:--

"No, don't take the dog to-day, your aunt doesn't like him; leave him here with me."

"Leave Moufflou?" said Lolo, "why, I never leave him; he wouldn't know what to do without me
all the afternoon."

"Yes, leave him," said his mother. "I don't want you to take him with you. Don't let me tell
you again." So Lolo turned around and went down the stairs, feeling very sad at leaving his
dear Moufflou even for a short time. But the hours went by, and when night-time came he hurried
back to the little old home. He stood at the bottom of the long, dark stairway and called "Moufflou!
Moufflou!" but no doggie came; then he climbed half-way up to the landing and called again,
"Moufflou!" but no little white feet came pattering down. Up to the top of the stairs went
poor tired Lolo and opened the door.

"Why, where is my Moufflou?" he said.

The mother had been crying, and she looked very sad and did not answer him for a moment.

"Where is my Moufflou?" asked Lolo again, "what have you done with my dear Moufflou?"

"He is sold," the mother said at last, "sold to the gentleman who has the little lame boy.
He came here to-day, and he likes the dog so much and his little boy was so pleased at the
pretty tricks he does, that he told me he would give a great deal of money if I would sell
him the dog. Just think, Lolo, he gave me so much money that we can pay somebody now to go
to the war for Tasso."

But before she had finished talking, Lolo began to grow white and cold and to waver to and
fro, so that his little crutch could hardly support him. When she had done he called out, "My
Moufflou--my Moufflou sold!" and he threw his hands up over his head and fell all in a heap
on the floor, his poor little crutch clattering down beside him. His mother took him up and
laid him on his bed, but all night long he tossed to and fro, calling for his dog. When the
morning came, his little hands and his head were very, very hot, and by and by the doctor came
and said he had a fever. He asked the mother what it was the little boy was calling for, and
she told him that it was his dog, and that he had been sold. The doctor shook his head, and
then went away.

Day after day poor Lolo lay on his bed. His hair had been cut short, he did not know his brothers
and sisters, nor his mother, and his little aching head went to and fro, to and fro, on the
pillow from morning till night. Once Tasso went to the hotel to find the gentleman. He was
going to tell him to take the money and give him back the dog; but the gentleman had gone many
miles away on the cars and taken Moufflou with him. So every day Lolo grew weaker, until the
doctor said that he must die very soon.

One afternoon they were all in the room with him. The windows were wide open. His mother sat
by his bed and the children on the floor beside her; even Tasso was at home helping to take
care of his little brother. All was so still that you could hear poor Lolo's faint breath,
when--suddenly--there was a scampering and a pattering of little feet on the stairs, and a
white poodle dashed into the room and jumped on the bed. It was Moufflou! but you would never
have known him, for he was so thin that you could count all his bones. His curls were dirty
and matted, and full of sticks and straws and burrs; his feet were dusty and bleeding, and
you could tell in a moment that he had traveled a great many miles. When he jumped on the bed,
Lolo opened his eyes a little. He saw it was Moufflou, and laid one little thin hand on the
dog's head; then he turned on his pillow, closed his eyes, and went quietly to sleep. Moufflou
would not get off the bed, and would eat nothing unless they brought it to him there. He only
lay close by his little master, with his brown eyes wide open, looking straight into his face.
By and by the doctor came, and said that Lolo was really a little better, and that perhaps
he might get well now. The mother and Tasso were very glad indeed, but they knew that the gentleman
would come back for his dog, and they scarcely knew what to do, nor what to say to him. Lolo
grew a little stronger every day, and at the end of a week a man came upstairs asking if Moufflou
was there. They had taken him a long way off, but he had run away from them one day, and they
had never been able to find him. Tasso asked the messenger to let Moufflou stay until he had
seen the gentleman, and he took the money and put on his hat and went with him to the hotel.
The sick boy was in the room with his father, and Tasso went straight to them and told them
all about it: that Lolo nearly died without his dear Moufflon, that day after day he lay in
his bed calling for the dog, and that at last one afternoon Moufflon came back to them, thin
and hungry and dirty, but so glad to see his little master again. Nobody knew, said Tasso,
how he could have found his way so many miles alone, but there he was, and now he begged the
gentleman to be so kind as to take back the money. He would go and be a soldier, if he must;
but Lolo and his dog must never be parted again.

The gentleman told Tasso that he seemed to be a kind brother, and that he might keep the money
and the dog too, if only he would find them another poodle and teach him to be as wise and
faithful as Moufflou was. Tasso was so glad that he thanked them again and again, and hurried
home to tell Lolo and his mother the good news. He soon found a poodle almost as pretty as
Moufflou, and every day Lolo, who has grown strong now, helps Tasso to teach him all of Moufflon's
tricks.

Sometimes Lolo turns and puts his arms around Moufflon's neck and says,--

"Tell me, my Moufflou, how you ever came back to me, over all the rivers, and all the bridges,
and all the miles of road?"

Moufflou can never answer him, but I think he must have found his way home because he loved
his master so much; and the grown people always say, "Love will find out the way."

BENJY IN BEASTLAND.

ADAPTED FROM MRS. EWING.

"With the genuine story-teller the inner life of the genuine listener is roused; he is carried
out of himself, and he thereby measures himself."--FROEBEL.

Benjy was a very naughty, disagreeable boy! It is sad to say it, but it is truth. He always
had a cloudy, smudgy, slovenly look, like a slate half-washed, that made one feel how nice
it would be if he could be scrubbed inside and out with hot water and soap.

Benjy was the only boy in the family, but he had two little sisters who were younger than he.
They were dear, merry little things, and many boys would have found them pleasant little playmates;
but Benjy had shown how much he disliked to play with them, and it made them feel very badly.
One of them said one day, "Benjy does not care for us because we are only girls, so we have
taken Nox for our brother." Nox was a big curly dog, something like a Newfoundland.

Now Benjy was not at all handsome, and he hated tubs and brushes and soap and water. He liked
to lie abed late in the mornings, and when he got up he had only time enough to half wash himself.
But Nox rose early, liked cold water, had snow-white teeth and glossy hair, and when you spoke
to him he looked straight up at you with his clear honest brown eyes. Benjy's jacket and shirt-front
were always spotted with dirt, while the covering of Nox's chest was glossy and well kept.
Benjy came into the parlor with muddy boots and dirty hands; but Nox, if he had been out in
the mud, would lie down when he came home, and lick his brown paws till they were quite clean.
Benjy liked to kill all kinds of animals, but Nox saved lives, though he often came near losing
his own.

Near their home was a deep river, where many a dog and cat was drowned. There was one place
on the bank of this river where there was an old willow-tree, which spread its branches wide
and stretched its long arms till they touched the water. Here Nox used to bring everything
that he found in the river.

I must tell you that Benjy did not like Nox, and with very good reason. Benjy had had something
to do with the death of several animals belonging to the people in the neighborhood, and he
had tied stones or tin cans around their necks and dropped them into the river. But Nox used
to wander round quite early in the morning, and very often found in the river and brought out
what Benjy had thrown in, and this is why he did not like the brave dog.

There was another dog in the family, named Mr. Rough. His eyes had been almost scratched out
by cats, his little body bore marks of many beatings, and he had a hoarse bark which sounded
as if he had a bad cold.

If Benjy cared for any animal, it was for Mr. Rough, although he treated him worse than he
did Nox, because he was small.

One day Benjy felt very mischievous; he even played a cruel trick on Nox while he was asleep.
As he sat near to him he kept lightly pricking the dog's lips with a fine needle. The dog would
half wake up, shake his head, rub his lips with his paws, and then drop off to sleep again.

At last this cruel boy stuck the needle in too far and hurt poor Nox, who jumped up with a
start, and as he did so the needle broke off, part of it staying in the flesh, where, after
a great deal of work which hurt the poor dog dreadfully, the little sisters found it. How they
cried for their pet! The braver one held Nox's lips and pulled out the needle, while the other
wiped the tears from her sister's eyes, that she might see what she was doing. Nox sat still
and moaned and wagged his tail very feebly, but when it was over he fairly knocked the little
sisters down in his eagerness to show his gratitude. But Benjy went out and found Mr. Rough,
and as he did not feel like being kind to any one, he kicked him, and Mr. Rough for the first
time ran away. Benjy could not find him, but he found a boy as naughty as himself, who was
chasing another little dog and pelting it with stones. This would have been very good fun,
but one of the stones struck the dog and killed him. So the boys tied something around his
neck and threw him into the river.

Benjy went to bed early that night, but he could not sleep, because he was thinking of that
little white dog, and wishing he had not thrown him into the river; so at last he got up and
went to the willow-tree. He looked up through the branches and saw the moon shining down at
him, and it seemed so large and so close that he thought if he were only on the highest part
of the tree he could touch it with his hand. While he was looking he thought of a book his
mother had, which told him that all animals went up into the moon after they left the earth.

"I wonder," said Benjy, "if that dog we killed last night is really up there."

The Man in the Moon looked down on him just then, and, to his surprise, said:--

"This is Beastland. Won't you come up and see if the dog is here? Can you climb?"

"I guess I can," said Benjy, and he climbed up first on one branch, then up higher on to another,
till he stood on the very top, and all he could see about him was a shining white light.

"Walk right in," said the Man in the Moon. "Put out your feet,--don't be afraid!" So Benjy
stepped into the moon and found himself in Beastland.

Oh! it was such a funny place, and yet it was very beautiful. There were many more beasts there
than in a menagerie, and they were so polite to each other, too, and so merry and kind to Benjy,
that it made him feel quite at home.

A nice old spider was anxious to teach him how to make a web. So he said to Benjy:--

"When you are ready, look around and find a spot where you can tie your first line; then you
have a ball of thread inside of you, of course."

"I can't say that I have," said Benjy, "but I have a good deal of string in my pocket."

"Oh, well!" said the spider, "that is all right; whether it's in your pocket or your stomach
it is all the same."

Just as the spider was giving Benjy his lesson, one animal whispered to another, and that one
to another, who and what Benjy was. Dear me! in a minute the beasts all changed their way of
treating him. They called him BOY! and up there that meant something not at all nice. Then
they took him to the Lion, the king of all the beasts, and asked him what should be done with
the Boy.

The Lion said: "If you want me to have anything to do with this trouble, you must mind me.
First, however, we will hear what Benjy has to say for himself."

They all placed themselves in a circle, the Lion on a high chair, (because, you know, he was
going to be judge, and all judges sit in big chairs,) and Benjy sat in the middle of the circle.

"Now, what has the Boy done?" asked the Lion.

"He stones and drowns dogs, and he hurts and kills cats," shouted the beasts all together.

"Mr. Rough kills the cats," said Benjy, because he was frightened.

"Very well," said the Lion, "we will send some one down for Mr. Rough."

So they all waited, and in a little while they heard the jingling of Mr. Rough's collar, and
he walked into the circle with his little short tail standing right up.

"Mr. Rough," said the Lion, "Benjy says it is you, and not he, who tease and kill the cats."

"Well," said Mr. Rough, jumping about in an angry way, "am I to blame? BOUF, BOUF, who taught
me to do it? BOUF, BOUF, it was that Boy over there. BOUF-BOUF!"

Then Mr. Rough told them that Benjy had made him tease and worry the cats and dogs so often
that he had quite learned to like it. All the beasts were very angry at this, and said that
Benjy must be punished.

The Lion said that he did not know just then what was best to be done with Benjy, so he asked
the beasts if they would wait till he had walked around and thought about it. They said yes,
so he walked around the circle seven times, lashing his tail in the grandest way; then he took
his seat again and said:--

