Few parishes in the environs of London are so rich in architectural antiquities as the "considerable
village" of Islington. Canonbury-house, of which a solitary tower remains, is said to have
been the country-residence of the Priors of St. Bartholomew, and to have been rebuilt early
in the 16th century. Highbury belonged also to the Priory. The existing relics are chiefly
of the Elizabethan age. The lodge, represented in the cut, belonged to an old mansion; the
property of the Fowler family, built in 1595, which appears on a ceiling. The house fronts
Cross-street, and the lodge is at the extremity of the garden, and adjoins Canonbury Fields.
It is most probable that this was built as a summer-house by Sir Thomas Fowler, the younger,
whose arms are placed in the wall, with the date 1655. It has been absurdly called Queen Elizabeth's
Lodge, but with no other foundation than her majesty having passed through it when on a visit
to Sir Thomas Fowler.

The Fowlers appear to have been of some note. Sir Thomas Fowler, the elder, who died in 1624,
was one of the jury on Sir Walter Raleigh's trial: his son, Sir Thomas, was created a baronet
in 1628; the title became extinct at his death. Some coats of arms were taken out of the windows
of the old mansion. Among these were the arms of Fowler and Heron. Thomas Fowler, the first
of the family who settled at Islington married the daughter of Herne, or Heron, of that place.[5]

    [5] See Harl. MSS., No. 1551.

The Pied Bull, near Islington Church, is stated to have been the residence of Sir Walter Raleigh;
though Oldys, in his Life of Raleigh, says there is no proof of it; and John Shirley, of Islington,
another of Raleigh's biographers, records nothing of his living there. The statement is, however,
renewed in a Life of Sir Walter, published in 1740.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PANORAMA OF MILAN.

By the aid of Mr. Burford's panoramic pencil, the sight-hunter of our times may enjoy a kind
of imaginary tour through the world. At one season he wafts us to the balmy climes of India--next
he astounds us with the icy sublimities of the Pole (a fine summer panorama, by the way)--then
to the glittering spires, minarets, and mosques of Constantinople--then to the infant world
of New Holland--and back to the Old World, to enjoy scenes and sites which are hallowed in
memory's fond shrine, by their association with the most glorious names and events in our history.
We remember the philosophical amusement of the great Lord Shaftesbury, in contriving all the
world in an acre in his retreat at Reigate: what his Lordship laboured to represent in his
garden, Mr. Burford essays in his panoramas--in short, he gives us all the world on an acre--of
canvass.

Reader, we do not hold the grand secret of life to be the art of hoaxing, when we tell you
that for a Greenwich fare you may be transported to the classic regions of Italy--that a walk
to Leicester Square will probably delight you more than a ride to Greenwich, little as we are
inclined to underrate the last of the pleasures of the people. The contrast is forcible, and
the intellectual advantage to be enjoyed in the metropolis too evident to be overlooked.

