Early next morning I sent Gahra secretly up to the lake on the bastion for a jar of chalybeate
water, which, after being colored with red earth and flavored with wild garlic, was nauseous
enough to satisfy the most exacting of physic swallowers. Then the negro sacrificed a cock
in the royal presence, and performed an incantation in the most approved African fashion, and
we made the creature's claws and comb into an amulet, which I requested the queen to hang round
her neck.

This done, I gave my instructions, assuring her that if she failed in any particular to observe
them my efforts would be vain, and her cure impossible. She was to drink nothing but water
and physic (of the latter very little), eat animal food only once a day, and that sparingly,
and walk two hours every morning; and finding that she could ride on horseback (like a man),
though she had lately abandoned the exercise, I told her to ride two hours every evening. I
also laid down other rules, purposely making them onerous and hard to be observed, partly because
I knew that a strict regimen was necessary for her recovery, partly to leave myself a loop-hole,
in the event of her not recovering, for I felt pretty sure that she would not do all that I
had bidden her, and if she came short in any one thing I should have an excuse ready to my hand.

But to my surprise she did not come short. For Mamcuna to give up her cider and her flesh pots,
and, flabby and fat as she was, to walk and ride four hours every day, must have been very
hard, yet she conformed to regulations with rare resolution and self-denial. As a natural consequence
she soon began to mend, at first slowly and almost imperceptibly, afterward rapidly and visibly,
as much to my satisfaction as hers; for if my treatment had failed, I could not have said that
the fault was hers.

Meanwhile I was picking up information about her people, and acquiring a knowledge of their
language, and as I was continually hearing it spoken I was soon able to make myself understood.

The Pachatupecs, though heathens and savages, were more civilized than any of the so-called
Indios civilizados with whom I had come in contact. They were clean as to their persons, bathing
frequently, and not filthy in their dwellings; they raised crops, reared cattle, and wore clothing,
which for the caciques consisted of a tunic of quilted cotton, breeches loose at the knees,
and sandals. The latter virtue may, however, have been due to the climate, for though the days
were warm the nights were chilly, and the winters at times rather severe, the country being
at a considerable height above the level of the sea. On the other hand, the Pachatupecs were
truculent, gluttonous, and not very temperate; they practised polygamy, and all the hard work
devolved on the women, whose husbands often brutally ill-used them. It was contrary to etiquette
to ask a man questions about his wives, and if you went to a cacique's house you were expected
either to ignore their presence or treat them as slaves, as indeed they were, and the condition
of captive Christian girls was even worse than that of the native women.

Considering the light esteem in which women were held I was surprised that the Pachatupecs
consented to be ruled by one of the sex. But Gondocori told me that Mamcuna came of a long
line of princes who were supposed to be descended from the Incas, and when her father died,
leaving no male issue, a majority of the caciques chose her as his successor, in part out of
reverence for the race, in part out of jealousy of each other, and because they thought she
would let them do pretty much as they liked. So far from that, however, she made them do as
she liked, and when some of the caciques raised a rebellion she took the field in person, beat
them in a pitched battle, and put all the leaders and many of their followers to death. Since
that time there had been no serious attempt to dispute her authority, which, so far as I could
gather, she used, on the whole, to good purpose. Though cruel and vindictive, she was also
shrewd and resolute, and semi-civilized races are not ruled with rose-water. She could only
maintain order by making herself feared, and even civilized governments often act on the principle
that the end justifies the means.

Mamcuna had never married because, as she said, there was no man in the country fit to mate
with a daughter of the Incas; but as Gondocori and some others thought, the man did not exist
with whom she would consent to share her power.

The Pachatupec braves were fine horsemen and expert with the lasso and the spear and very fine
archers. They were bold mountaineers, too, and occasionally made long forays as far as the
pampas, where, I presume, they had brought the progenitors of the nandus, of which there were
a considerable number in the country, both wild and tame. The latter were sometimes ridden,
but rather as a feat than a pleasure. The largest flock belonged to the queen.

By the time I had so far mastered the language as to be able to converse without much difficulty,
the queen had fully regained her health. This result--which was of course entirely due to temperate
living and regular exercise--she ascribed to my skill, and I was in high favor. She made me
a cacique and court medicine-man; I had quarters in her house, and horses and servants were
always at my disposal. Had her Majesty's gratitude gone no further than this I should have
had nothing to complain of; but she never let me alone, and I had no peace. I was continually
being summoned to her presence; she kept me talking for hours at a time, and never went out
for a ride or a walk without making me bear her company. Her attentions became so marked, in
fact, that I began to have an awful fear that she had fallen in love with me. As to this she
did not leave me long in doubt.

One day when I had been entertaining her with an account of my travels, she startled me by
inquiring, à propos to nothing in particular, if I knew why she had not married.

"Because you are a daughter of the Incas, and there is no man in Pachatupec of equal rank with
yourself."

"Once there was not, but now there is."

I breathed again; she surely could not mean me.

"There is now--there has been some time," she continued, after a short pause. "Know you who he is?"

I said that I had not the slightest idea.

"Yourself, señor; you are the man."

"Impossible, Mamcuna! I am of very inferior rank, indeed--a common soldier, a mere nobody."

"You are too modest, señor; you do yourself an injustice. A man with so white a skin, a beard
so long, and eyes so beautiful must be of royal lineage, and fit to mate even with the daughter
of the Incas."

"You are quite mistaken, Mamcuna; I am utterly unworthy of so great an honor."

"You are not, I tell you. Please don't contradict me, señor" (she always called me 'señor');
"it makes me angry. You are the man whom I delight to honor and desire to wed; what would you
have more?"

"Nothing--I would not have so much. You are too good; but it would be wrong. I really cannot
let you throw yourself away on a nameless foreigner. Besides what would your caciques say?"

"If any man dare say a word against you I will have his tongue torn out by the roots."

"But suppose I am married already--that I have left a wife in my own country?" I urged in desperation.

"That would not matter in the least. She is not likely to come hither, and I will take care
that I am your only wife in this country."

"Your condescension quite overwhelms me. But all this is so sudden; you must really give me
a little time--"

"A little time! why? You perhaps think I am not sincere, that I do not mean what I say, that
I may change my mind. Have no fear on that score. There shall be no delay. The preparations
for our wedding shall be begun at once, and ten days hence, dear señor, you will be my husband."

What could I say? I had, of course, no intention of marrying her--I would as lief have married
a leopardess. But had I given her a peremptory negative she might have had me laid by the heels
without more ado, or worse. So I bowed my head and held my tongue, resolving at the same time
that, before the expiration of the ten days' respite, I would get out of the country or perish
in the attempt. Whereupon Mamcuna, taking my silence for consent, showed great delight, patted
me on the back, caressed my beard, fondled my hands, and called me her lord. Fortunately, kissing
was not an institution in Pachatupec.

One good result of our betrothal, if I may so call it, was that the preparations for the wedding
took up so much of Mamcuna's time that she had none left for me, and I had leisure and opportunity
to contrive a plan of escape, if I could, for, as I quickly discovered, the difficulties in
the way were almost if not altogether insurmountable. I could neither go back to the eastern
Cordillera by the road I had come, nor, without guides, find any other pass, either farther
north or farther south. Westward was a range of barren hills bounded by a sandy desert, destitute
of life or the means of supporting life, and stretching to the desolate Pacific coast, whence,
even if I could reach it, I should have no means of getting away.

There was, moreover, nobody to whom I could appeal for counsel or help. Gondocori thought me
the most fortunate of men, and was quite incapable of understanding my scruples. Gahra, albeit
willing to go with me, knew no more of the country than I did, and there was not a man in it
who could have been induced even by a bribe either to act as my guide or otherwise connive
at my escape; and I had no inducement to offer.

Nevertheless, the opportunity I was looking for came, as opportunities often do come, spontaneously
and unexpectedly, yet in shape so questionable that it was open to doubt whether, if I accepted
it, my second condition would not be worse than my first.

CHAPTER XXIV.

IN THE TOILS.

Five days after I had been wooed by the irresistible Mamcuna, and as I was beginning to fear
that I should have to marry her first and run away afterward, I chanced to be riding in the
neighborhood of the village, when a woman darted out of the thicket and, standing before my
horse, held up her arms imploringly. I had never spoken to her, but I knew her as the white
wife of one of the caciques.

"Save me, señor!" she exclaimed, "for the love of heaven and in the name of our common Christianity,
I implore you to save me!"

"From what?"

"From my wretched life, from despair, degradation, and death." And then she told me that, while
travelling in the mountains with her husband, a certain Señor de la Vega, and several friends,
they were set upon by a band of Pachatupecs who, after killing all the male members of the
party, carried her off and brought her to Pachacamac, where she had been compelled to become
one of the wives of the cacique Chimu, and that between his brutality and the jealousy of the
other women, her life, apart from its ignominy, was so utterly wretched that, unless she could
escape, she must either go mad or be driven to commit suicide.

"I should be only too glad to rescue you if I could. I want to escape myself; but how? I see
no way."

"It is not so difficult as you think, señor; if we can get horses and a few hours' start, I
will act as guide and lead you to a civilized settlement, where we shall be safe from pursuit.
I know the country well."

"Are you quite sure you can do this, señora? It will be a hazardous enterprise, remember."

"Quite sure."

"And you are prepared to incur the risk?"

"I will run any risk rather than stay where I am."

"Very well, I will see what can be done. Meet me here to-morrow at this hour. And now, we had
better separate; if we are seen together it will be bad for both of us. Hasta mañana."

And then she went her way and I went mine.

I had said truly "a hazardous enterprise." Hazardous and difficult in any circumstances, the
hazard and the difficulty would be greatly increased by the presence of a woman; and the fact
of a cacique's wife being one of the companions of my flight would add to the inveteracy of
the pursuit. I greatly doubted, moreover, whether Señora de la Vega knew the country as well
as she asserted. She was so sick of her wretched condition that she would say or do anything
to get away from it--and no wonder. But was I justified in letting her run the risk? The punishment
of a woman who deserted her husband was death by burning; were Señora de la Vega caught, this
punishment would be undoubtedly inflicted; were it even suspected that she had met me or any
other man, secretly, Chimu would almost certainly kill her. Pachatupec husbands had the power
of life and death over their wives, and they were as jealous and as cruel as Moors. Yet death
was better than the life she was compelled to lead, and as she was fully cognizant of the risk
it seemed my duty to do all that I could to facilitate her escape.

Then another thought occurred to me. Could this be a trap, a "put up job," as the phrase goes.
Though the caciques had not dared to make any open protest against Mamcuna's matrimonial project,
I knew that they were bitterly opposed to it, and nothing, I felt sure, would please them better
than to kindle the queen's jealousy by making it appear that I was engaged in an intrigue with
one of Chimu's wives.

Yet no, I could not believe it. No Christian woman would play so base a part. Señora de la
Vega could have no interest in betraying me. She hated her savage husband too heartily to be
the voluntary instrument of my destruction, and she was so utterly wretched that I pitied her
from my soul.

A creole of pure Spanish blood and noble family, bereft of her husband, forced to become the
slave of a brutal Indian, and the constant associate of hardly less brutal women, painfully
conscious of her degradation, hopeless of any amendment of her lot, poor Señora de la Vega's
fate would have touched the hardest heart. And she had little children at home! My suspicions
vanished even more quickly than they had been conceived, and before I reached my quarters I
had decided that, come what might, the attempt should be made.

The next question was how and when. Clearly, the sooner the better; but whether we had better
set off at sunrise or sunset was open to doubt. By leaving at sunset we should be less easily
followed; on the other hand, we should have greater difficulty in finding our way and be sooner
missed. It was generally about sunset that Mamcuna sent for me, and I knew that at this time
it would be well-nigh impossible for Señora de la Vega to leave Chimu's house without being
observed and questioned, perhaps followed. So when we met as agreed, I told her that I had
decided to make the attempt on the next morning, and asked her to be in a grove of plantains,
hard by, an hour before dawn. I besought her, whatever she did, to be punctual; our lives depended
on our stealing away before people were stirring.

Meanwhile Gahra and I had laid our plans. He was to give out the night before that we were
setting off early next morning on a hunting expedition. This would enable us, without exciting
suspicion, to take a supply of provisions, arms, and a led horse (for carrying any game we
might kill) and, as I hoped, give us a long start. For even when Señora de la Vega was missed
nobody would suspect that she had gone with us.

In the event--as we hoped, the improbable event--of our being overtaken or intercepted, Gahra
and I were resolved not to be taken alive; but we had, unfortunately, no firearms; they were
all lost in the snow-storm. Our only weapons were bows and arrows and machetes. I carried the
former merely as a make-believe, to keep up my character as a hunter; for the same reason we
took with us a brace of dogs. If it came to fighting I should have to put my trust in my machete,
a long broad-bladed sword like a knife, formidable as a lethal weapon, yet chiefly used for
clearing away brambles and cutting down trees.

All went well at the beginning. We were up betimes and off with our horses before daylight.
The braves on duty asked no questions, there was no reason why they should, and we passed through
the village without meeting a soul.

So far, good. The omens seemed favorable, and my hopes ran high. We should get off without
anybody knowing which way we had taken, and several hours before Señora de la Vega was likely
to be missed.

But when we reached the rendezvous she was not there. I whistled and called softly; nobody
answered.

"She will be here presently, we must wait," I said to Gahra.

It was terribly annoying.  Every minute was precious. The Pachatupecs are early risers, and
if Señora de la Vega did not join us before daylight we might be seen and the opportunity lost.
The sun rose; still she did not come, and I had just made up my mind to put off our departure
until the next morning, and try to communicate with Señora de la Vega in the meantime, when
Gahra pointed to a pathway in the wood, where his sharp eyes had detected the fluttering of a robe.

At last she was coming. But too late. To start at that time would be madness, and I was about
to tell her so, send her back, and ask her to meet me on the next morning, when she ran forward
with terrified face and uplifted hands.

"Save me! Save me!" she cried, "I could not get away sooner. I have been watched. They are
following me, even now."

This was a frightful misfortune, and I feared that the señora had acted very imprudently. But
it was no time either for reproaches or regrets, and the words were scarcely out of her mouth
when I lifted her into the saddle; as I did so, I caught sight of two horsemen and several
foot-people, coming down the pathway.

"Go!" I said to Gahra, "I shall stay here."

"But, señor--"

"Go, I say; as you love me, go at once. This lady is in your charge. Take good care of her.
I can keep these fellows at bay until you are out of sight and, if possible, I will follow.
At once, please, at once!"

They went, Gahra's face expressing the keenest anguish, the señora half dead with fear. As
they rode away I turned into the pathway and prepared for the encounter. The foot-people might
do as they liked, they could not overtake the fugitives, but I was resolved that the horsemen
should only pass over my body.

The foremost of them was Chimu himself. When he saw that I had no intention of turning aside,
he and his companion (who rode behind him) reined in their horses. The cacique was quivering
with rage.

"My wife has gone off with your negro," he said, hoarsely.

I made no answer.

"I saw you help her to mount. You have met her before. Mamcuna shall know of this, and my wife
shall die."

Still I made no answer.

"Let me pass!"

I drew my machete.

Chimu drew his and came at me, but he was so poor a swordsman, that I merely played with him,
my object being to gain time, and only when the other fellow tried to push past me and get
to my left-rear, did I cut the cacique down. On this his companion bolted the way he had come.
I galloped after him, more with the intention of frightening than hurting him, and was just
on the point of turning back and following the fugitives, when something dropped over my head,
my arms were pinioned to my side, and I was dragged from my saddle.

The foot-people had lassoed me.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE  MAN-KILLER.

I was as helpless as a man in a strait waistcoat.  When I tried to rise, my captors tautened
the rope and dragged me along the ground. Resistance being futile, I resigned myself to my fate.

On seeing what had happened, the flying brave (a kinsman of Chimu's) returned, and he and the
others held a palaver. As Mamcuna's affianced husband, I was a person of importance, and they
were evidently at a loss how to dispose of me. If they treated me roughly, they might incur
her displeasure. The discussion was long and rather stormy. In the result, I was asked whether
I would go with them quietly to the queen's house or be taken thither, nolens volens. On answering
that I would go quietly, I was unbound and allowed to mount my horse.

I do not think I am a coward, and in helping Señora de la Vega to escape and sending her off
with Gahra, I knew that I had done the right thing. Yet I looked forward to the approaching
interview with some misgiving. Barbarian though Mamcuna was, I could not help entertaining
a certain respect for her. She had treated me handsomely; in offering to make me her husband
she had paid me the greatest compliment in her power; and how little soever you may reciprocate
the sentiment, it is impossible to think altogether unkindly of the woman who has given you
her love. And my conscience was not free from reproach; I had let her think that I loved her--as
I now perceived, a great mistake. Courageous herself, she could appreciate courage in others,
and had I boldly and unequivocally refused her offer and given my reasons, I did not believe
she would have dealt hardly with me.

As it was Mamcuna might well say that, having deliberately deceived her, I deserved the utmost
punishment which it was in her power to inflict. At the same time, I was not without hope that
when she heard my defence she would spare my life.

By the time we reached the queen's house my escort had swollen into a crowd, and one of the
caciques went in to inform Mamcuna what had befallen and ask for her instructions.

In a few minutes he brought word that the queen would see me and the people who had taken part
in my capture forthwith. We found her sitting in her chinchura, in the room where she and I
first met. Bather to my surprise she was calm and collected; yet there was a convulsive twitching
of her lips and an angry glitter in her eyes that boded ill for my hopes of pardon.

"Is it true, this they tell me, señor--that you have been helping Chimu's wife to escape, and
killed Chimu?" she asked.

"It is true."

"So you prefer this wretched pale-face woman to me?"

"No, Mamcuna."

"Why, then, did you help her to escape and kill her husband? Don't trifle with me."

"Because I pitied her."

"Why?"

"Chimu treated her ill, and she was very wretched. She wanted to go back to her own country,
and she has little children at home."

"What was her wretchedness to you? Did you not know that you were incurring my displeasure
and risking your own life?"

"I did. But a Christian caballero holds it his duty to protect the weak and deliver the oppressed,
even at the risk of his own life."

Mamcuna looked puzzled. The sentiment was too fine for her comprehension.

"You talk foolishness, señor. No man would run into danger for a woman whom he did not desire
to make his own."

"I had no desire to make Señora de la Vega my wife. I would have done the same for any other
woman."

"For any other woman! Would you risk your life for me, señor?"

"Surely, Mamcuna, if you were in sorrow or distress and I could do you any good thereby."

"It is well, señor; your voice has the ring of truth," said the queen, softly, and with a gratified
smile, "and inasmuch as you went not away with Chimu's pale-faced wife, but let her depart
with the negro--"

"The señor would have gone also had we not hindered him," interposed Chimu's kinsman. "We saw
him lift the woman into the saddle, and he was turning to follow her when Lurin caught him
with the lasso."

"Is this true; would you have gone with the woman?" asked the queen, sternly, her smile changing
into an ominous frown.

"It is true; but let me explain--"

"Enough; I will not hear another word. So you would have left me, a daughter of the Incas,
who have honored you above all other men, and gone away with a woman you say you do not love!
Your heart is full of deceit, your mouth runs over with lies. You shall die; so shall the white
woman and the black slave. Where are they? Bring them hither."

The caciques and braves who were present stared at each other in consternation. In their exultation
and excitement over my capture the fugitives had been forgotten.

"Mules! Idiots! Old women! Follow them and bring them back. They shall be burned in the same
fire. As for you, señor, because you cured me of my sickness and were to have been my husband
I will let you choose the method of your death. You may either be roasted before a slow fire,
hacked to pieces with machetes, or fastened on the back of the man-killer and sent to perish
in the desert. Choose."

"Just one word of explanation, Mamcuna. I would fain--"

"Silence! or I will have your tongue torn out by the roots. Choose!"

"I choose the man-killer."

"You think it will be an easier death than being hacked to pieces. You are wrong. The vultures
will peck out your eyes, and you will die of hunger and thirst. But as you have said so let
it be. Tie him to the back of the man-killer, men, and chase it into the desert. If you let
him escape you die in his place. But treat him with respect; he was nearly my husband."

And then Mamcuna, sinking back into her chinchura, covered her face with her hands; but she
showed no sign of relenting, and I was bound with ropes and hurried from the room.

The man-killer was a nandu[1] belonging to the queen, and had gained his name by killing one
man and maiming several others who unwisely approached him when he was in an evil temper. Save
for an occasional outburst of homicidal mania and his abnormal size and strength, the man-killer
did not materially differ from the other nandus of Mamcuna's flock. His keeper controlled the
bird without difficulty, and I had several times seen him mount and ride it round an inclosure.

    [1] The American ostrich.

The desert, as I have already mentioned, lies between the Cordillera and the Pacific Ocean,
stretching almost the entire length of the Peruvian coast, with here and there an oasis watered
by one or other of the few streams which do not lose themselves in the sand before they reach
the sea. It is a rainless, hideous region of naked rocks and whirling sands, destitute of fresh
water and animal life, a region into which, except for a short distance, the boldest traveller
cares not to venture.

After leaving the queen's house I was placed in charge of a party of braves commanded by a
cacique, and we set out for the place where my expiation was to begin. The nandu, led by his
keeper and another man, of course went with us. My conductors, albeit they made no secret of
their joy over my downfall, did their mistress's bidding, and treated me with respect. They
loosed my bonds, taking care, however, so to guard me as to render escape impossible, and,
when we halted, gave me to eat and drink. But their talk was not encouraging. In their opinion,
nothing could save me from a horrible death, probably of thirst. The best that I could hope
for was being smothered in a sandstorm. The man-killer would probably go on till he dropped
from exhaustion, and then, whether I was alive or dead, birds of prey would pick out my eyes
and tear the flesh from my bones.

