PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 102

MAY 14, 1892

CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

NO. IX.--THE DUFFER DEER-STALKING.

I am in favour of Mr. BRYCE's Access to Mountains Bill, and of Crofters who may be ambitious
to cultivate the fertile slopes of all the Bens in Scotland. In fact, I am in favour of anything
that will, or may, interfere with the tedious toil of Deer-stalking. Mr. BRYCE's Bill, I am
afraid, will do no good. People want Access to Mountains when they cannot get it; when once
they can, they will stay where the beer is, and not go padding the wet and weary hoof through
peat-hogs, over rocks, and along stupid and fatiguing acclivities, rugged with heather. Oh,
preserve me from Deer-stalking; it is a sport of which I cherish only the most sombre memories.

They may laugh, and say it was my own fault, all my misfortune on the stalk, but a feeling
reader will admit that I have merely been unlucky. My first adventure, or misadventure if you
like, was at Cauldkail Castle, Lord GABERLUNZIE's place, which had been rented by a man who
made a fortune in patent corkscrews. The house was pretty nearly empty, as everyone had gone
south for the Leger, so it fell to my lot to go out under the orders of the head stalker. He
was a man of six foot three, he walked like that giant of iron, TALUS his name was, I think,
who used to perambulate the shores of Crete, an early mythical coast-guard. HUGH's step on
the mountain was like that of the red deer, and he had an eye like the eagle's of his native
wastes.

It was not pleasant, marching beside HUGH, and I was often anxious to sit down and admire the
scenery, if he would have let me. I had no rifle of my own, but one was lent me, with all the
latest improvements, confound them! Well, we staggered through marshes, under a blinding sun,
and clambered up cliffs, and sneaked in the beds of burns, and crawled through bogs on our
stomachs. My only intervals of repose were when HUGH lay down on his back, and explored the
surrounding regions with his field-glass. Even then I was not allowed to smoke, and while I
was baked to a blister with the sun, I was wet through with black peat water. Never a deer
could we see, or could HUGH see, rather, for I am short-sighted, and cannot tell a stag from
a bracken bush.

At last HUGH, who was crawling some yards ahead, in an uninteresting plain, broken by a few
low round hillocks, beckoned to me to come on. I writhed up to him, where he lay on the side
of one of those mounds, when he put the rifle in my hand, whispering "Shoot!"

"Shoot what?" said I, for my head was not yet above the crest of the hillock. He only made
a gesture, and getting my eye-glass above the level, I saw quite a lot of deer, stags, and
hinds, within fifty yards of us. They were interested, apparently, in a party of shepherds,
walking on a road which crossed the moor at a distance, and had no thoughts to spare for us.
"Which am I to shoot?" I whispered.

"The big one, him between the two hinds to the left." I took deadly aim, my heart beating audibly,
like a rusty pump in a dry season. My hands were shaking like aspen leaves, but I got the sight
on him, under his shoulder, and pulled the trigger. Nothing happened, I pulled the trigger
of the second barrel. Nothing occurred. "Ye have the safety-bolts in," whispered HUGH, and
he accommodated that portion of the machinery, which I do not understand. Was all this calculated
to set a man at his ease? I took aim afresh, pulled the trigger again. Nothing! "Ye're on half-cock,"
whispered HUGH, adding some remark in Gaelic, which, of course, I did not understand. Was it
my fault? It was not my own rifle, I repeat, and the hammers, at half-cock, looked as high
as those of my gun, full-cocked.

All this conversation had aroused the attention of the deer. Off they scuttled at full speed,
and I sent a couple of bullets vaguely after them, in the direction of a small forest of horns
which went tossing down a glade. I don't think I hit anything, and HUGH, without making any
remark, took the rifle and strode off in a new direction. I was nearly dead with fatigue, I
was wishing Mr. BRYCE and the British Tourist my share of Access to Mountains, when we reached
the crown of a bank above a burn, which commanded a view of an opposite slope. HUGH wriggled
up till his eyes were on a level with the crest, and got his long glass out. After some interval
of time, he wakened me, to say that if I snored like that, I would not get a shot. Then he
showed me, or tried to show me, through the glass, a stag and three hinds, far off to our right.
I did not see them, I very seldom see anything that people point out to me, but I thought it
wise to humour him, and professed my satisfaction. Was I to shoot at them? No, they were about
half a mile off, but, if I waited, they would feed up to us, so we waited, HUGH nudging me
at intervals to keep me awake. Meanwhile I was practising aiming at a distant rock, about the
place where I expected to get my shot, as HUGH instructed me. I thought the wretched rifle
was at half-cock, and I aimed away, very conscientiously, for practice. Presently the rifle
went off with a bang, and I saw the dust fly on the stone I had been practising at. It had
not been at half-cock, after all; warned by my earlier misfortunes, HUGH had handed the rifle
to me cocked. The stag and the hinds were in wild retreat at a considerable distance. I had
some difficulty in explaining to HUGH, how this accident had occurred, nor did he seem to share
my satisfaction in having hit the stone, at all events.

We began a difficult march homewards, we were about thirteen miles now from Cauldkail Castle.
HUGH still, from habit, would sit down and take a view through that glass of his. At last he
shut it up, like WELLINGTON at Waterloo, and said, "Maybe ye'll be having a chance yet, Sir."
He then began crawling up a slope of heather, I following, like the Prophet's donkey. He reached
the top, whence he signalled that there was a shot, and passed the rifle to me, cocked this
time. I took it, put my hand down in the heather--felt something cold and slimy, then something
astonishingly sharp and painful, and jumped to my feet with a yell! I had been bitten by an
adder, that was all! Now, was that my fault? HUGH picked up the rifle, bowled over the stag,
and then, with some consideration, applied ammonia to my finger, and made me swallow all the
whiskey we had.

It was a long business, and Dr. MACTAVISH, who was brought from a hamlet about thirty miles
away, nearly gave me up. My arm was about three feet in circumference, and I was very ill indeed.
I have not tried Deer-stalking again; and, as I said, I wish the British Tourist joy of his
Access to Mountains.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY SPRING.

  Once more the North-east wind
    Chills all anew,
  And tips the redden'd nose
    With colder blue;
  Makes blackbirds hoarse as crows,
    And poets too.

  The town with nipping blasts
    How wildly blown;
  Around my hapless head
    Loose tiles are thrown,
  Slates, chimney-pots, and lead
    Of weight unknown.

  My tile and chimney-pot
    Flies through the air.
  My eyes are full of dust,
    My head is bare,
  A state of things that must
    Soon make me swear!

  When thus in early Spring
    My joys are few,
  I'll warm myself at home
    With "Mountain Dew,"
  Or fly to Nice, or Rome,
    Or Timbuctoo.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A BIRD OF PREY.

  The Laureate, seeking Love's last law,
  Finds "Nature red in tooth and claw
    With ravin"; fierce and ruthless.
  But Woman? Bard who so should sing
  Of her, the sweet soft-bosomed thing,
    Would he tabooed as truthless.

  Yet what is this she-creature, plumed
  And poised in air? Iris-illumed,
    She gleams, in borrowed glory,
  A portent of modernity,
  Out-marvelling strangest phantasy
    That chequered classic story.

  Fair-locked and winged. So HESIOD drew
  The legendary Harpy crew,
    The "Spoilers" of old fable;
  Maidens, yet monsters, woman-faced,
  With iron hearts that had disgraced
    The slaughterer of ABEL.

  Chimæra dire! The Sirens three,
  Ulysses shunned were such as she,
    Though robed in simpler raiment.
  Is there no modern Nemesis
  To deal out to such ghouls as this
    Just destiny's repayment?

  O modish Moloch of the air!
  The eagle swooping from his lair
    On bird-world's lesser creatures,
  Is spoiler less intent to slay
  Than this unsparing Bird of Prey,
    With Woman's form and features.

  Woman? We know her slavish thrall
  To the strange sway despotical
    Of that strong figment, Fashion;
  But is there nought in this to move
  The being born for grace and love
    To shamed rebellious passion?

  'Tis a she-shape by Mode arrayed!
  The dove that coos in verdant shade,
    The lark that shrills in ether,
  The humming-bird with jewelled wings,--
  Ten thousand tiny songful things
    Have lent her plume and feather.

  They die in hordes that she may fly,
  A glittering horror, through the sky.
    Their voices, hushed in anguish,
  Find no soft echoes in her ears,
  Or the vile trade in pangs and fears
    Her whims support would languish.

  What cares she that those wings were torn
  From shuddering things, of plumage shorn
    To make her plumes imposing?
  That when--for her--bird-mothers die,
  Their broods in long-drawn agony
    Their eyes--for her--are closing?

  What cares she that the woods, bereft
  Of feathered denizens, are left
    To swarming insect scourges?
  On Woman's heart, when once made hard
  By Fashion, Pity's gentlest bard
    Love's plea all vainly urges.

  A Harpy, she, a Bird of Prey,
  Who on her slaughtering skyey way,
    Beak-striketh and claw-clutcheth.
  But Ladies who own not her sway,
  Will you not lift white hands to stay
  The shameless slaughter which to-day
    Your sex's honour toucheth?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SEVEN AGES OF WOMAN.

(AS SIR JAMES CRICHTON BROWNE SEEMS PROPHETICALLY TO SEE THEM.)

            Woman's world's a stage,
  And modern women will be ill-cast players;
  They'll have new exits and strange entrances,
  And one She will play many mannish parts,
  And these her Seven Ages. First the infant
  "Grinding" and "sapping" in its mother's arms,
  And then the pinched High-School girl, with packed satchel,
  And worn anæmic face, creeping like cripple
  Short-sightedly to school. Then the "free-lover,"
  Mouthing out IBSEN, or some cynic ballad
  Made against matrimony. Then a spouter,
  Full of long words and windy; a wire-puller,
  Jealous of office, fond of platform-posing,
  Seeking that bubble She-enfranchisement
  E'en with abusive mouth. Then County-Councillor,
  Her meagre bosom shrunk and harshly lined,
  Full of "land-laws" and "unearned increment";
  Or playing M.P. part. The sixth age shifts
  Into the withered sour She-pantaloon,
  With spectacles on nose and "Gamp" at side,
  Her azure hose, well-darned, a world too wide
  For her shrunk shanks; her once sweet woman's voice,
  Verjuiced to Virgin-vinegarishness,
  Grates harshly in its sound. Last scene of all,
  That ends this strange new-fangled history,
  Is sheer unwomanliness, mere sex-negation--
  Sans love, sans charm, sans grace, sans everything.

       *       *       *       *       *

