But our day of days came on Thursday, when a large audience from various parts of Southeastern
Georgia assembled at our church to witness the exercises of graduation. Although this is only
our third exercise of this kind, it has already become one of the great annual events of Liberty
and neighboring counties. Notwithstanding the heat of the day and the dust, the church was
packed by an audience of at least six hundred. In thought, force and plainness of expression
and delivery, the orations of the young men were well up toward "high-water mark." The subjects
chosen were eminently of a practical nature, and were treated in a very practical and forceful
way that went right home to the understanding and appreciation of the hearers, as was manifested
by the close attention that was evident on every hand. The music for the occasion was furnished
by the Normal department, assisted by the grammar grades, and consisted of well-drilled choruses,
a duet and a solo. The exercises closed with an appropriate address by the pastor, Rev. A.
L. DeMond, and the presentation of the well-earned diplomas.

It should have been mentioned that, on Tuesday evening, a reception was given by the teachers
to the members of the graduating class and the alumni, furnishing a very pleasant social occasion.
On Thursday afternoon, the alumni of the school organized and held its first meeting, consisting
of literary exercises; and in the evening gave a reception to the teachers at a neighboring
house, thus giving a pleasant ending to the school year of 1897-8.

It has been a busy week and one filled with hard work, and moreover, such work as could not
have been possible a very few years ago. A diploma received now by a graduate means the completion
of a four-years' Normal course, and the work satisfactorily done.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLORED TEACHERS IN THE SOUTH.

BY PROF. A. J. STEELE, MEMPHIS, TENN.

A full generation has passed since the emancipation of the slaves in the United States and
since the avenues of knowledge were thrown open to the colored people through the doors of
the school house. During this time portions of three generations, parents, children and grand-children,
literally "Children's children to the third generation," have, to a greater or less extent,
availed themselves of the tuition of the schools.

During the first decade, and in regularly decreasing ratio since, the most difficult problem
has been how to provide competent teachers for the instruction of a race crowding and hungry
for knowledge. Fortunately, perhaps, in the long view, the teaching of colored youth has never,
from the first, in the South, been considered a popular calling, and so the work has in the
main devolved upon the colored people themselves, a work to which, for years, from almost entire
lack of opportunity for training, they could bring but the scantiest preparation and even less
experience.

No more interesting or suggestive study could be undertaken than that, of tracing the progress
of the colored teachers of a race so recently emancipated, as they have advanced in literary,
mental and moral fitness for a work thrust upon them by the exigencies of the situation.

Reference to the tables of statistics compiled by the Commissioner of Education for 1895-6
shows how well the race is meeting the demand for teachers in its schools, everywhere in the
South kept separate from the public schools for white children. For the year above mentioned
there were employed 26,499 colored teachers, who had under their care 1,429,713 pupils. For
the same year there were in the various Normal Schools for colored people 4,672 students, 966
of whom were graduated; 826 were graduated from high schools and 161 from college courses,
making in all 1,953 graduates from courses of study considered sufficient in extent to fit
more or less thoroughly for the work of teaching; not to mention the even greater numbers who
engage in teaching before having completed any higher course of training. So much as to mere
numbers. Now, in general, as to the advancement being made by schools of this class. Without
exception, the reports of school officers give credit for constantly increasing excellency
and proficiency of both schools and teachers, and certain it is, that the public appreciation
and esteem is shown by an increasing patronage and a more substantial provision for the improvement
and support of the schools.

In particular, while it is not always safe to draw sweeping conclusions from facts gathered
within a limited area of observation, it may yet be confidently asserted, that what is true
of the schools and teachers of any fairly representative city or community in the South, is
likely to be measurably true wherever similar conditions and opportunities prevail. My own
direct experience and observation have had to do with the colored schools and teachers of a
single city of sixty to eighty thousand people, nearly one-half colored, and the counties and
towns adjacent. These I have followed very closely for over twenty-five years. I can testify
positively that there has been a steady raising of the standards of qualifications and proficiency
with regard both to intellectual and moral attainments among the teachers of colored schools,
and in this I shall be borne out by the testimony of superintendents and school officers, as
well as by all observing people of these communities. In many cases teachers and schools of
this class have attained an enviable reputation and are often mentioned as models of excellence
in many ways.

The process of growth here, as elsewhere, has been one of the "survival of the fittest," the
ill-trained, inefficient teachers gradually giving place to the better qualified, more capable
class. The initial influence in this line of succession dates back but little more than thirty
years, to the founding of "mission" schools at centres of influence throughout the South; "a
handful of corn on the top of the mountain" from which has come the wide-spreading harvests
of the present. It is a statement well within the facts that nine out of ten of the colored
schools of all grades in the South are taught by those who had their training in these mission
schools, or else by teachers who owe their education to those of their own race who were so
trained. No more powerful or far-reaching influence was ever set in operation than that which
had its origin in the cabin where taught the first humble missionary among the people freed
by the war. The whole power and potency of all that has followed was represented in that first
despised and humble effort.

From that day to this seems a long call. The passage has been made almost unobserved, like
the coming of the Kingdom of Heaven. It now not unfrequently happens that a colored public
school stands accredited in a community with excellencies to distinguish it as an example worthy
of imitation. Such is the colored high school in the city of my direct observation, in the
two respects of self-control and government of its pupils, and in its movement toward a collection
of miscellaneous books for a school library--excellencies not ascribed, so far as I know, in
anything like the same measure to any other public school. It is perhaps needless to add that
the principal of this school, as well as the teachers of a large percentage of the other best
schools of the city and county, have had their training in one of the "mission" normal schools
above mentioned.

To remove or weaken these centres of power would be to strike the most deadly blow at the education
of the colored people. It would be the removal of so many nerve centres out from which still
flow the stimuli needful to keep in active operation and growing power the entire system.

John F. Slater and Daniel Hand and a hundred other individual benefactors have seen this vital
fact and have done what they could to build up and strengthen such influences. The church will
make a great mistake if it ignores this fact or relaxes its efforts in the support of the institutions
so wisely planned and so greatly efficient for good in the past.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

CLOSING EXERCISES AT LE MOYNE.--Le Moyne Normal Institute, Memphis, Tennessee, closed on the
2nd of June. Not less than 2,500 people crowded the auditorium at the closing exercises. The
large attendance betokens the influence of the school in the community and the esteem in which
it is held.

STUDENTS ENLISTING.--Many of the students of our colleges and Normal Schools have enlisted
in the service of their country. From Talladega College, Alabama, we receive the following:
"We send a score of our choice young men off to the army to-morrow." From Lincoln School, Meridian,
Miss., the Principal writes: "One young man is away in the interests of his company, of which
he is Captain. He wrote, 'This is the time to show of what clay we are made, and I trust each
student of Lincoln School will prove himself loyal to his country.' Four of the officers of
his company are graduates of Lincoln School."

       *       *       *       *       *

A SKETCH OF THE CAREER OF A STRAIGHT UNIVERSITY GRADUATE.

BY REV. GEORGE W. HENDERSON, D.D.

Among the young colored men who heard the call of God for the uplifting of their race was Mr.
H----, whose home was in Arkansas. From the first, with him Christian faith meant Christian
service, and he at once became active in church and Sunday-school. Nature was generous to him
in the saving gift of common sense, and he was not long in perceiving the incompetency of the
ministers to whom the people at that time looked for religious instruction and leadership.

A fortunate providence brought him into contact with a teacher from Straight University. The
information she gave him of this institution opened the way to execute the purpose which he
had been cherishing for some time, to fit himself to become a missionary to his people in his
own home. The loss of a leg at this time, through the carelessness of another, instead of discouraging,
strengthened his resolution. Penniless, like Booker Washington, he set out for this missionary
seat of learning, his only resource, prayer, his only support, hope and faith.

One bright morning, this brave Arkansas lad presented himself at Straight University. Hobbling
up the walk to the main building, and assuming an air of confidence quite in contrast to his
internal emotions, he hailed a passing student in the familiar vocabulary of the plantation--"Say,
Sonny, is the Boss in?" The "Boss" was in, and on meeting this new candidate for academical
honors, quite took away his breath by addressing him as "Mr." Such courtesy was a surprise
and a revelation to him. That he was somebody in the eyes of heaven was the gracious revelation
of his Christian faith; it now for the first time dawned upon him that the recognition of his
manhood was possible on earth.

