Of course, poor Ena took a fancy to it in England. I don't think she stayed at any houses,
but she was at some hotel where they have it, so she didn't see why not. If you ring a bell,
dozens of these helpless-looking, white-headed creatures in black and yellow simply swarm from
every direction, like great insects when you've poured hot water into their hive--or hole.

If any really nice people happen to stop in their motor for any reason at the house in the
morning, say about eleven o'clock, they are offered magnums of champagne, as if out of gratitude
for their coming. They hardly ever seem to do more than sip, so perhaps the black and yellow
insects get the rest. There's an English butler, and it would make your heart bleed, or else
you'd want to howl, if you saw his agonized, apologetic look whenever you, as a British person,
knowing about other ways of running a house, happened to catch his elderly eye.

Mr. and Mrs. Rolls get up at goodness knows what hour and have breakfast together, so does
Petro--that's the nickname for the son. But Ena and Mubs and Rags and I can wallow as long
as we like and have gorgeous breakfasts in our rooms. Mubs thinks Mrs. R. is a fool, because
she can hardly understand what a woman wants with a vote, but I think she's a dear. She sends
cartloads of flowers to hospitals, and if you speak of a charity she hauls handfuls of dollar
bills out of an immense gold chain bag she always carries on her arm because Petro gave it
to her for a birthday present, and it, and Ena's one, a size smaller, has the fat air of containing
all her luggage ready to start off from Saturday to Monday at a moment's notice. I suppose
it's money that looks so plump.

Now do you think Rags ought to resist the daughter of such a house when church mice have long
ago cut our acquaintance? Of course, Rags is lucky at bridge (he gave me a lovely dress on
board ship), but he can't live on it regularly. So far it's a toss up. I'll let you know how
things go.

Mubs is writing an article for an American newspaper which has offered her fifty pounds. This
is the first fun she's ever got out of being a countess--and now I shouldn't wonder if she'd
be a dowager soon! As for me, I'm trying to flirt with Petro. No, to be honest, that isn't
quite true. I'm not exactly flirting. He's too good for that. Ena says he's "glue," because
he has no interest in life, and that it'll cheer him up if I encourage him to talk to me about
some philanthropical schemes he has.

One is a "Start in Life Fund" for deserving and clever young people who need only a hand up
to get on. I wish I could go in for it myself--but perhaps I'm not deserving or clever. Anyhow
Ena says her brother likes me awfully, better than any girl he ever saw before, and that he
thinks me pretty. Did you ever? No wonder I like him! I shouldn't mind his knowing that I do,
as Ena says he thinks no girl could care for him. That sounds pathetic. I let her know that,
as he's so despairingly modest, she might break it to him that I enjoy his society. Since then
he's been much nicer, though, perhaps still a little absent-minded, which may come from being
"blue." I should like to know what Ena said to him! But I suppose it's all right!

Your chum and cousin,
  EILY.

P.S. They've got a shop in New York. I forgot to tell you that--a huge shop. It's never mentioned
here, but Petro told me. He's not ashamed, but rather proud of the way the money came. Rags
wants him and Ena to take us to the place.

What Ena did say to Peter was, "Poor little Eileen is falling in love with you." Peter didn't
believe it. But it put a strange idea into his head.

CHAPTER XIII

ONE MAN AND ANOTHER

"No. 2884 Child, W. Pay Envelope. Details under flap," Winifred read on the neat, pale-brown
packet put into her hand the night when she had served Peter Rolls for a week--or was it five
hundred weeks? "READ THE OTHER SIDE" was printed in capital letters of white upon a black background
on the flap which must be torn open to get at the contents and "details." The latter consisted
of "Deductions, Absent, Late Fines, Keys, Mdse., Stamps, Beneficial Ass., and Sub. Slips."

But Win had been neither absent nor late. Being an extra hand only, and liable to be "dispensed
with" at the end of the holidays, she had not needed to subscribe her hard-earned pennies to
Beneficial Assurance, that huge fund made up of weekly coppers, whose interest was to Peter
Rolls almost what "Peter's Pence" are to the Pope. Thanks to her good health and good behaviour,
"Cash Enclosed" (as secretly mentioned under the flap) was practically intact. But it had been
a nightmare week which seemed longer than all the past weeks of her life added together and
if she had earned a hundred dollars instead of six she would not have felt too highly paid.

She moved wearily away from the office window, obeying the directions to "read other side,"
and as she walked down the long corridor (her sore feet causing her to limp slightly) the words
"if sick or disabled, notify employment bureau at once" sang through her head, keeping time
with her uneven steps.

She was "reading the other side," the other side of life which appeared to her as separate
from the side she had known as the bright was separate from the dark side of the moon; the
side about which people seldom troubled and never saw. A few weeks ago, before that "wild spirit"
of hers lured her half across the world to find independence, she would have thought, feeling
as she felt to-night, that she was both sick and disabled. But now she knew that hundreds of
other girls under this very roof felt just as she felt, and that they took it for granted as
a normal condition of life. They hardly pitied themselves, and she must be as stoical. If once
she lost courage, she might do the thing she had boasted to Peter Rolls, Jr., that she would
never do--cry.

She thought to find a tonic effect from the sight of money earned, and in taking out her six
dollars, she let fall a slip of white paper from the pay envelope. It fluttered away, to alight
on the floor, and Win's heart beat as she picked it up.

Her discharge already? What could she have done to be sent off at the end of a week--she who
had tried so hard? And how strange that, tired and disheartened as she was, she should actually
fear discharge! A minute ago she had been asking herself, "How many weeks like this can I live
through?" and wishing that an end, almost any end, might come. Yet here she was dreading to
turn the slip over (she had retrieved it blank side up) and read her doom.

"You are requested to call at the superintendent's private office Monday, twelve forty-five,"
was neatly typewritten precisely in the middle of the paper.

Win did not know whether to be relieved or alarmed.

"I'll ask Sadie what she thinks," was her quick decision. But Sadie was not available this
evening. An "old chum" had asked Miss Kirk out to supper, and Miss Child having snubbed her
faithful lion man for reasons which had appeared good at the time, had no one to give her the
key to those dozen mystic words which might as well have been written in cipher.

"And even Sadie can't tell for certain," she reflected. "I can't possibly know till Monday noon."

All the fatigue and nerve strain of six dreadful days and six appalling nights seemed suddenly
to culminate in a fit of overpowering restlessness. Worn out though she was (or all the more
because of that, perhaps) she could not go "home" to Columbus Avenue, where the "L" that Sadie
said should be spelled with an "H" ran past her window.

She was sure if she sat down or went to bed she should think more about her aching back and
burning feet than if she walked. She longed for the sweet, kind air of heaven to ripple past
her hot cheeks like cool water. She longed for stars to look up to, and for the purple peace
and silence of night after the clamour of the store and before the babel of Columbus Avenue,
into which presently she must plunge.

"I'll walk in the park," she proposed to herself. "It will do me good. When I'm too tired,
I can rest for a few minutes on one of the seats and hear myself think."

That was one of the many disadvantages of "home." There you could hear at the same time almost
every other sound which could be produced in the world, but you could not hear yourself think.

Earl Usher was not to be seen as she came out into the street, and Win was glad. Once or twice
to-day she had half repented the snub which, perhaps, he had not meant to deserve, but now
she thanked it for his absence. Swiftly she walked away, though still with the just perceptible
limp that most shop girls have in their first few weeks of "business."

She did not look up at the giant Hands with their blazing rings, as she had looked at first,
half admiring, half awed. Their gesture now seemed greedy. They were trying to "grab the whole
sky," as the lion tamer said. Rather would one hurry to escape from under them, and go where
the Hands of Peter Rolls could not reach.

It was exquisite in the park, and she was thinking how a delicate, floating blue curtain appeared
to shut her away for a little while from all the harshness of life, when a small and singularly
silent automobile glided by. A lamp showed her the forms of two men in the open car, one in
front, who drove, and one behind, who sat with arms folded.

"How heavenly to have the air and lean back restfully without needing to walk," thought tired Win.

She was envying the comfortable figure with its arms folded when the little car turned and,
to her astonishment, drew up close beside her. Involuntarily she stopped; then, as one of the
men jumped out, she regained her presence of mind and walked on at top speed.

The man strode along after her, however, and spoke.

"Don't you remember me? That's very unkind. You might wait a minute, anyhow, and let me remind
you where we met. I recognized you as I went by, that's why I came back."

Wondering if it could be possible that they had met, Win ventured a glance at the face on a
level with her own. She knew instantly that never had she seen it before.

"You're mistaken," she said. "I don't know you. Please go."

"Logan is my name," he persisted. "Jim Logan. Now don't you remember? But you didn't tell me
your name that other time."

Win took longer steps. This active hint did not, however trouble Mr. Logan. He was an inch
or so taller than she, perhaps, and kept step with the utmost ease.

"You and I might have been at the same dancing school," said he. "I'm doing the newest stunt--the
wango. Is that what you're doing, too? Or is it the y-lang-y-lango? I could go on like this
all night! I hope you're not engaged to anybody else for the next dance?"

"As a matter of fact, I am," said Win sharply, though it was all she could do not to laugh.
"My partner will very much object to you."

"That's all right. It's not likely he knows jiu-jitsu as well as I do," cheerfully replied
the man, still hurrying on at the same pace. He kept half a step in advance of the girl, as
if to be prepared in case she should begin to run; and thus, without seeming to look, Win could
see him in profile.

He was so smartly dressed that, in England, he would have been called a "nut." What was the
American equivalent for a nut, she did not know. He had a hawk-nosed profile which might have
been effective had not his undercut jaw stuck out aggressively, suggesting extreme, hectoring
obstinacy, even cruelty.

She had time to see that his hair was an uninteresting brown, and his skin the ordinary sallow
skin of the man about town. But suddenly he took her unawares, turning to face her with disquieting
abruptness. She caught an impression of eyes sparkling in the lamplight; small and set close
on either side of a high-bridged, narrow nose, yet bright and boldly smiling. His voice was
that of an educated person and not disagreeable in tone, but Win was anxious to escape hearing
it again.

He seemed to wait for an answer, and when it did not come, he went on:

"You ought to go in for an Olympic race. You're all for them in England. I'm out of training,
but I can stand this as long as you can, I bet. The only thing is, I wanted to take you for
a run in my auto, it's such a nice, crisp night. I'll drive you home, if you say the word."

"The thing wished for comes when your hands are tied," says the Turkish proverb. Win had been
yearning for a spin. She kept silence and sped on, wondering whether she could surprise the
enemy by executing a sudden right-about-face.

"Have you been in this country long?" he inquired.

No answer.

"Oh, indeed, is that so? I thought you hadn't! Are you living in New York at present? Don't
be afraid to tell me. Even if you are, that won't drive me out of the little old burg. See
here, you're mighty restless. And you do hate to part with much of your conversation at one
time, don't you? You're a peach, all right, but a spiced peach preserved in vinegar."

Winifred wheeled and began walking east even faster than she had been walking west. In the
distance a tall--a very tall--figure was approaching, like a ship under full sail. Could it
be--- Yes, it was! Bless the light of the lamp that showed him! Now indeed she dared to laugh.

"Here comes that partner of mine at last!" she exclaimed and almost ran to met the lion tamer.

"Good Lord! Very well, I can't hope to compete against cigar signs," replied Mr. Logan. "I
was unprepared for Goliath. Little David will fade away till he gets his sling. You make me
forget my name and telephone number, but this is where I get off at. Please remember me next time."

"I will, when next time comes!" Win was tempted to toss after him impudently as, lifting his
cap, the motorist took a hasty short cut to the motor. Win was actually laughing when Earl
Usher joined her. She felt safe, and not even tired. The little adventure had had its uses,
after all! It had been, she thought, just as beneficial and not nearly so expensive as a tonic
or a Turkish bath.

"Was that mutt a gentleman friend of yours, kid, or was he some fresh guy? 'Cause, if he was
playing the fool, I'll break into the game and go for his blood," remarked the rescuer.

"It was a Mr. Logan," replied Win hurriedly, making up her mind that she must avoid any chance
of trouble. "But--but I don't like him much," she added. "I was very glad when I saw you. And
I'm not going to scold you for following me, because I know you meant well--and, as it happened,
it's ending well. For a reward, I forgive you everything. And I've just thought of a new name
for you, Mr. Usher."

"Hope it's some better than Sadie Kirk's."

"What--Teddy Bear? Yes, it's better than that. Did you ever read 'Quo Vadis?'"

"Not on your life. Sounds like a patent medicine."

"It's a novel. And in it a great, good giant of a young man devotes himself to rescuing a maiden
named Lygia. His name was Ursus, and he was so strong he could bring a bull to its knees---"

"Why, you silly little kid, that's a movie, not a novel. I've seen Ursus and his bull, all
right. You're makin' me stuck on myself. I feel as if I was it."

"Well, you are it. I christen you Ursus. And thank you very much for taking so much trouble
about me."

"I didn't take trouble," protested Ursus, half afraid that he was being "kidded." "All I did
was to beat it after you at what the swell reporters call a respectful distance just to see
you safe home if you meant to hoof it. When you shot into the park, thinks I, 'maybe she's
made a date to chat with a gentleman friend, so I'll hang back.' But---"

"It was quite an accident, meeting Mr. Logan, I assure you, Ursus," said Win, still unwilling
to confide in him the details of the late encounter, which seemed ridiculous now it was over.
"I wanted a breath of air. I've had it, and if you'll be very good and never use such a word
again as you did night before last, you may walk home with me if you like."

"What word do you refer to? Cutie?"

"Yes. And another still more offensive."

"Sweetie?"

"Yes. Disgusting! 'Kid's' bad enough. But I thought you mightn't know any better. I draw the
line at the others."

"All right," said Ursus rather sulkily, sure that he was being made fun of now. "But when a
chap's a girl's friend what is he to call her?"

"'You' will do very well, if 'Miss Child' is beyond your vocabulary."

"I don't call that bein' friends. Say, is that your mutt's automobile sort of following along
in our wake?"

"I don't know, for I don't want to look back," said Win. (They were out of the park by this
time.) "But--I've changed my mind about walking all the way. Let's hurry and take a Fifty-Ninth
Street car!"

       *       *       *       *       *

By day, in the shop, Win could laugh when she thought of the Columbus Avenue house where she
and Sadie "hung out." But at night, in her room, trying desperately to sleep, she could not
even smile. To do so, with all those noises fraying the edges of her brain, would be to gibber!

In that neighbourhood front rooms were cheaper than rooms at the back. Lodgers who could afford
to do so paid extra money for a little extra tranquillity. Neither Sadie Kirk nor Winifred
Child was of these aristocrats. Their landlady had thriftily hired two cheap flats in a fair-sized
house whose ground floor was occupied by a bakery, and whose fire-escapes gave it the look
of a big body wearing its skeleton outside. She "rented" her rooms separately, and made money
on the transaction, though she could afford to take low prices.

In the street below the narrow windows surface cars whirred to and fro and clanged their bells.
In front of the windows, and strangely, terribly near to the six-inch-wide balconies, furnished
with withered rubber plants, roared the "L" trains, jointed, many-eyed dragons chasing each
other so fast that there seemed to be no pause between at any hour of the day or during most
hours of the night. Private life behind those windows was impossible unless you kept your blinds
down. If you forgot, or said wildly to yourself that you didn't care, that you must breathe
and see your own complexion by daylight at any cost, thousands of faces, one after the other,
stared into yours. You could almost touch them, and it was little or no consolation to reflect
when they had seen you brushing your hair or fastening your blouse, that these travellers in
trains would never hear your name or know who you were.

As for a bath--but then the great, magnificent advantage of living at Mrs. McFarrell's was
the bathroom. It was dark and small and smelled of the black beetles who lived happily around
the hot-water pipes. You were not expected to take more than one bath a week, and for that
one bath towel was provided free.

"Oh, I thought you'd had your bath this week!" was the answer Win got on her second night,
when mildly asking for a towel which had disappeared. But if you were silly enough to pay thirty
cents extra for putting water on your body every day, you could do so. And, anyhow a bathroom
was a splendid advertisement. One lodger told another: "The use of the bathroom is thrown in."

That night, when Win had bathed and laid herself carefully down in the narrow bed which shook
and groaned as if suffering from palsy, it seemed more impossible than ever to go to sleep.
Each new train that rumbled by was a giant, homing bee, her brain the hive for which it aimed.
Her hot head was crowded with thoughts, disturbing, fighting, struggling thoughts, yet the
giant bee pushed the throng ruthlessly aside and darted in. Each time it seemed impossible
to bear it again. She felt as if she had caterpillars in her spine and ants on her nerves.

Win thought about the superintendent, Mr. Meggison, and wondered again and again whether she
would be discharged or whether he had merely "taken a fancy" to her looks and wished to see
if she were flirtatiously inclined. She knew now, from Sadie, that Meggison's desire was to
be a "gay dog," though his courage did not always march with his ambition.

The red-haired girl, Sadie supposed, had perhaps come to the Hands armed with an introduction
from some "lady friend." This theory would account for Meggison's mysterious murmur of, "That's
different." What should she--Win--do if Father invited her to dine with him, as it seemed he
did invite some of the girls? Sadie said that if such a thing happened to her she would accept,
because she wasn't afraid of Father. She "could scare him more than he could scare her," and
an extra hand might "get the push" if she refused a civil invitation.

With Mr. Croft, "Saint Peter's Understudy," it was more dangerous. You had to beware of him.
If you were a "looker," like Win, the best thing that could happen to you was never to come
within eyeshot of Henry Croft. He lived in the suburbs, was married, and the superintendent
of a Sunday school. His name was on all the charity lists. He was so tall and thin and sprawling
that he looked like a human hatrack, and his solemn circle of a face, surrounded with yellowish
whiskers, had a sunflower effect. He had written a book, "Week-Day Sermons by a Layman"; nevertheless,
he was a terror.

There were, according to Sadie, girls in the store who were of no more use as saleswomen than
baby alligators would have been, but they "gave the glad eye" to Mr. Croft, and accepted his
flowers and invitations for moonlight motor rides. Nearly every one knew, but nobody told.

What use? Who was there to tell? Croft was "up at the top and then some." Only Saint Peter
himself stood above. And who would dare complain to Saint Peter about his respectable right
hand? Even if there were any chance of getting near P.R., which there wasn't. He came mostly
at night, as if it were a disgrace to show himself in a shop, even if it was his own. If ever
he did any "prowling" in business hours, it was with the understudy glued to his side.

As for "sweating" and "grinding" there wasn't a cent's worth of difference between Croft and
Meggison, said Sadie. Nevertheless, Win was feeling thankful, as the "L" train bees boomed
through her brain, that at worst it was Mr. Meggison who had mysteriously summoned her, not
Mr. Croft.

If only she could go to sleep and forget them both, and the trains and the cars and the man
in the park and Miss Stein, who still had against her a "grouch." If only she could forget
even big, blundering Ursus, who wanted to treat her to oyster stews that he couldn't afford
and take her to a dance hall next Sunday! And Sadie, too, who knew such strange and awful things
about the world and life, although she was so good.

But no. Impossible to stop thinking, impossible to forget, impossible to sleep. All New York
seemed to be about her ears. She could hear the frantic rush of everything which true New Yorkers
love, and she could feel its sky-scrapers closing in around her like an unclimbable wall. As
she thought of the great, noisy city she saw it consisting entirely of vastly high towers,
with inhabitants who spent their time in tearing about--people who looked at her in the street
as if she were not there, or, if she was, they would rather she were somewhere else.

