The following is literally copied from an original autograph of the unfortunate Lord Strafford,
and may prove interesting to your numerous readers.

C.J.T.

"Sweete Harte.--It is longe since I writt unto you, for I am here in such a troubel as gives
mee little or noe respett. The chardge is now cum in, and I am now abel I prayse God, to telle
you that I conceaue there is nothing capitall, and for the reste I knowe at the worste his
maty will pardonne all without hurting my fortune, and then wee shall be happie by God's grace.
Therefore comfortt yourself, for I trust these cloudes will away and thate wee shall have faire
weathere afterwarde.

"Fare well, your lovinge husbande, "Tower of Londonne,

"STRAFFORDE.

"4th Feb. 1640.

"My Wife."

       *       *       *       *       *

STONE PILLARS AND CROSSES.

(For the Mirror.)

It appears from the accounts of the earliest historians, that single stones, or rude pillars
were raised on various occasions, in the most remote ages. Of these we have frequent notices
in the Old Testament, as of that raised by Jacob at Lug, afterwards named Bethel; a pillar
was also raised by him at the grave of Rachel. The Gentiles set up pillars for idolatrous purposes.
The Paphians worshipped their Venus under the form of a white pyramid, and the Brachmans the
great God under the figure of a little column of stone. Many large stones are found at this
day in Wales and Cornwall, which are supposed to have been raised by the Phoenicians and Grecians,
who frequently resorted thither for tin and other metals.

In Ireland some of these large stones have crosses cut on them, supposed to have been sculptured
by Christians, out of compliance with Druidical prejudices, that the converts from Paganism
not easily diverted from their reverence for these stones, might pay them a kind of justifiable
adoration, when thus appropriated to the use of Christian memorials, by the sign of the Cross.
Some signs of adoration are at this day paid to such stones, in the Scottish Western Isles;
they are called bowing stones. In the Isle of Barra there is one about seven feet high, and
when the inhabitants come near, they take a religious turn round it, according with ancient
Druidical custom.

Stones were raised also as memorials of civil contracts; as by Jacob, in his contract with
Laban, when the attendants of the latter raised a heap, to signify their assent to the treaty.
Those conical, pyramidal, and cylindric stones, perpendicularly raised, which are seen in the
British Isles, were formerly introduced in general, to ascertain the boundaries of districts.
On these, representations of the crucifixion were frequently cut, and the name of crosses were
given to the boundary stones in general, though remaining without this symbol. Many instances
might be given of these termini. At High Cross, on the intersection of the Watling Street and
Foss Roman roads, there was formerly a pillar which marked the limits of Warwickshire and Leicestershire--the
present column is of modern date; another distinguished the boundaries of Asfordby and Frisby,
in the latter county. One at Crowland, in the county of Lincoln, the inscription on which has
caused considerable dispute amongst antiquarians, has been much noticed. A famous one near
Landoris, in Fifeshire, placed, as Camden says, as a boundary between the districts of Fife
and Stathern, was also a place of sanctuary.

Stone pillars, or crosses were also raised to record remarkable events; as where a battle had
been fought, or over persons of distinction slain therein. Crosses were likewise erected where
any particular instance of mercy had been shown by the Almighty, or where any person had been
murdered by robbers, or had met with a violent death; where the corpse of any great person
had rested on its way to interment, as those splendid ones erected by Edward I. in memory of
his beloved Queen Elinor; often in churchyards, and in early times at most places of public
concourse; in market-places, perhaps to repress all idea of undue gain or extortion; and at
the meeting of four roads.

Penances were often finished at crosses. Near Stafford stood one called Weeping Cross, from
its being a place designated for the expiation of penances, which concluded with weeping and
other signs of contrition. A great number of sepulchral crosses were erected in Great Britain
and Ireland, soon after prayers for the dead came into use, by the desire of individuals, at
their places of interment, to remind pious people to pray for their souls.

The ancient practice of consecrating Pagan antiquities to religious purposes, has been continued
to times comparatively modern; thus, Pope Sixtus V. purified the Antonine column and that of
Trajan, dedicating them to St. Peter and St. Paul, whose statues, of a colossal size, he placed
on their summits. Succeeding Popes followed these examples, dedicating ancient columns, pillars,
and obelisks to different Saints and Apostles.

A CORRESPONDENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LONDON UNIVERSITY MAGAZINE,

No. 1.

It is seldom that we "turn critics;" but our very bile rises at the ill-timed dedication of
this work to the King, as the "first fruits of the combined exertions of a few of your majesty's
subjects, educated within the GROSSLY misrepresented UNIVERSITY of LONDON." It is quite unnecessary
for us to explain why this Dedication deserves the epithet we have chosen: it stands with the
signature of "the Proprietors," and we hope is not the act of the editors; but for the credit
of the University, the publishers, the proprietors, and editors, we recommend their friends
to cancel the leaf bearing this very offensive inscription, whether they care or not for the
golden opinions of all sorts of people.

If the present Number be a fair sample of the London University Magazine, we can promise the
reader but little amusement in our "Notes" from its pages. It may prove useful enough to the
students of the University, but it wofully lacks the attractive features of a Magazine for
the public; it may suit the library-table, but not the "excellent coffee room," or the "retired
cigar room" of the University Hotel. "On a general Judgment--A new System of communicating
Scientific Information in a Tabular form--On the Study of the Law and Medicine--On Apoplexy,"
and the general business of the University, are very grave matters for little more than 100
pages. "On the Metamorphosis of Plants," by Goethe, is more attractive; but Magazine readers
do not want the lumber of law and medicine--the dry material of parchment, or the blood and
filth of the physiological chair. How different too, is all this from the pleasantry and attic
wit of "The Etonian," into whose volumes we still dip with undiminished gratification.

As we have enumerated the least attractive of the papers in the London University Magazine,
we ought also to run over the lighter portions of its pages. These are "A young head, and,
what is still better, a young heart,"--discursive enough--"A Tale of the Irish Rebellion--the
Guerilla Bride, a Poem," beginning

    "It is a tale of Spain--Romantic Spain!"

--and a Sketch of the Irish Exchequer Court. A description of the University, with a Vignette
view, and ground plan, is perhaps, the most interesting of the whole Number; but as dramatic
critics sometimes say of a new performer, we had rather see him in another character before
we form an estimate of his talents--so we wait for better things from the London University
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EDINBURGH JOURNAL OF NATURAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL SCIENCE, No. 1.

We expected much from the announcement of this work, and are not disappointed in its first
Number. It contains original papers--scientific Reviews--geographical and natural History Collections--and
an abundance of scientific intelligence--somewhat on the plan of Mr. Loudon's excellent Magazines.
We have not at present room for extract; but the Number before us will furnish several interesting
Notes for a portion of our next publication. A Tour in the Island of Jersey is one of the most
amusing articles we have read for some time, and we hope to abridge it for our columns.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FOREIGN REVIEW.

The Eighth Number of this valuable Journal is just published, and its table of contents is
exceedingly attractive. Among these are Phrenology--a characteristic article on Germany--the
French and Italian Drama--anecdotical papers on Napoleon and General Jackson and the United
States of America, and the History of the Cid. Ours will be a pleasing task to "note" through
this Number.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNPUBLISHED LINES ON DR. JOHNSON.

By the late Dr. Wolcot.
  Alike in every theme his pompous art,
  Heaven's awful thunder, or a rumbling cart!

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

GAS LIGHTS.

We have now been so long accustomed to this new light in the streets, that, like all other
terrene goods, we have almost become insensible to its blessings. Yet let him who desires to
know what he owes to chemistry and "Old Murdoch," turn into any of the streets still lighted
with oil, and then come back to the nocturnal day of the Strand or Pall Mall. The parish oil
lamps were like light-houses on the ocean; guides, not lights; the gas has become a perpetual
full moon; and it may assuredly be pronounced one of the most splendid and valuable applications
of chemistry. Why has not old Murdoch his statue? He deserves it even better than his master;
for the master was well paid in solid pudding. In other days, that statue would have equalled
the Colossus at Rhodes, and the demi-philosopher would have breathed flame like the Chimera;
in the fabulous ages before that, he would have come down to us a god, or a demi-god, the rival
of Prometheus, Hercules, and Atlas. Why not cast him in Achillean brass, the rival of the great
hero of gunpowder and Waterloo, and make him breathe gas like the Dragon of Wantley, to illuminate
the triumphal arch. Ingrata Patria!

The new light! yes, much has been heard of its power and influence; but what has the new light
of all the preachers done for the morality and order of London, compared to what has been effected
by this new light. Old Murdoch alone, has suppressed more vice than the Suppression Society;
and has been a greater police officer into the bargain than old Colquhoun and Sir Richard Birnie
united. It is not only that men are afraid to be wicked when light is looking at them, but
they are ashamed also; the reformation is applied to the right place. Where does vice resort?
Where it can hide; in darkness, says the preacher, because its deeds are deeds of darkness.
Seek it in Pudding-lane, and Dyot-street, and the abysses of Westminster. Why was not this
new light preached to them long ago: twenty bushels of it would have been of more value than
as many chaldrons of sermons, and taking even the explosions of the inspector into the bargain.
But it is well, that this is at length to be compulsory; since it is never too late. Thieves
and rogues are like moths in blankets: bring the sun to shine on them, and they can neither
live nor breed. Let the Duke of Wellington place a gas-lamp at every door of these infernal
abodes; and since they cannot be smoked out, make their houses as much like glass, on the principle
of the old Roman, as we can compass. This is the remedy; at least till common sense will condescend
to the better expedient of pulling down and laying open all these retreats of misery and vice;
the disgrace and the nuisance of London, and not less a standing inhumanity to the poor themselves.--Westminster
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPE WINES.

The commerce at the Cape is wine; and the vine has already increased tenfold, since the colony
became British. But unfortunately more attention has been hitherto paid to quantity than to
quality, except on the farms which yield Constantia. The latter have an eastern exposure, and
are sheltered from the south-west, the only injurious blast. The soil being a deposit from
the neighbouring mountains, is light, but enriched by manure. The subsoil, which is even more
important, is still lighter, being mixed with sand and broken stone; on the contrary, in Drachenstein,
where the chief vineyards are at present, the subsoil being clay, the wine receives an unpleasant
flavour, the idea of which is inseparably associated with the very name of Cape wine. It is
unnecessary to enter into the subject of its manufacture. If the subsoil be bad, so will the
wine be. The vine does not require a rich subsoil. In Italy, flags are laid to prevent the
roots from penetrating into clay; and in England, rubbish is thrown in to make a subsoil that
shall not be so rich as to produce leaves, instead of fruit. It would be advantageous were
premiums offered for wine that had not been produced from clay of subsoil, but had been reared
in trellis, as requiring less labour than the standard, and made on a pure and good system,
instead of being mixed with Cape brandy, or sulphuric acid, &c. Notwithstanding all these disadvantages,
Cape wine is generally sold in England under the names, and at the prices, of Madeira, Sherry,
Teneriffe, Stem, Pontac, and above all, Hock.--Gill's Repository.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VIEW OF LONDON.

The finest view in London is from the top of Whitehall Place, looking towards the river; but
then you must see it as I did, at the same hour, and under similar circumstances.

It was about a fortnight since I beheld that memorable spectacle. I was on my way home, having
dined with a friend, who, though not an habitual votary of Bacchus, occasionally sacrifices
to the god with intense and absorbing zeal. After dinner we adjourned to the Opera, having
only determined to renew at supper our intimacy with certain flasks of Champagne, which lay
in their icy baths coolly expecting our return. We carried our determination into effect to
the fullest extent; and at half-past three o'clock we parted, deeply impressed with a sense
of each other's good qualities, and with as keen and lively an appetite for the sublime and
beautiful as an X of Champagne[2] usually imparts to its warm-hearted admirers. My way led
me through Whitehall, at least I found myself there, as "Charles," the guardian of the night,
was announcing the fourth hour. As my good fortune would have it, I happened to look towards
the river, and never, while memory holds her seat, shall I forget the sight which presented
itself. Six distinct St. Pauls lifted themselves through the cloudless morning air (so pure,
that the smoke of a single cigar would defile it: I extinguished mine in awe) towards the blue
transparent sky; nearer, and beneath this stately city of temples, were four Waterloo Bridges,
piling their long arcades in graceful and harmonious regularity one above the other, with the
chaste and lofty symmetry of a mighty aqueduct; while far away, in the dim distance, a dome
of gigantic dimensions was faintly visible, as if presiding over the scene, linking shadow
and substance, uniting the material with the intellectual world, like the realization of a
grand architectural dream. Talk not to me of the Eternal City--in her proudest days of imperial
magnificence she could not furnish such a view--thrice be that Champagne lauded!--Monthly Magazine.

    [2] Reader--What does he mean by an X of Champagne?

    Editor--An unknown quantity, you fool.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW YORK.

The distant view of New York, almost free from smoke, is singularly bright and lively; in some
respects it refreshes a recollection of the sea-bound cities of the Mediterranean. The lower
parts of the interior, next to the warehouses, resemble Liverpool; but the boast of the city
is Broadway, a street that, for extent and beauty, the Trongate of Glasgow, which it somewhat
resembles in general effect, alone excels. The style of the Trongate is, if the expression
may be used, of a more massy and magnificent character, but there is a lightness in that of
Broadway which most people will prefer. Those who compare the latter with Oxford-street, in
London, do it injustice; for, although the shops in Oxford-street display a richer show of
merchandize, the buildings are neither of equal consequence nor magnitude. Regent-street in
London, is of course always excepted from comparisons of this kind.

The portico of the Bowery Theatre is immeasurably the finest morçeau of architecture in the
city. It resembles that of Covent-Garden, but seems to be nobler and greater; and yet I am
not sure if, in point of dimensions, it is larger, or so large as that of Covent-Garden. The
only objection to it--and my objection is stronger against the London theatre--is the unfitness.
In both cases, the style and order are of the gravest Templar character, more appropriate to
the tribunals of criminal justice, than to the haunts of Cytherea and the Muses.--New Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUE FORNARINA.

The account of a journey which was taken in the year 1664, by Cosmo, the son of Ferdinand II.
de Medici, was written at the time, by Philip Pizzichi, his travelling chaplain. This work
was published for the first time at Florence, about seven months ago. It contains some curious
notices of persons and things, and among them, what will interest every lover of the fine arts.
It is this--speaking of Verona, he mentions the Curtoni gallery of paintings, and says, "The
picture most worthy of attention is the lady of Raffaello, so carefully finished by himself,
and so well preserved that it surpasses every other." The editor of these travels has satisfactorily
shown that Raffaelo's lady here described is the true Fornarina; so that of the three likenesses
of her said to be executed by this eminent artist, the genuine one is the Veronese, belonging
to the Curtoni gallery, now in the possession of a lady Cavellini Brenzoni, who obtained it
by inheritance.--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ITALIAN SCENERY.

Happy is the man, who, leaving the Alps behind him, has the plains of Lombardy on his right
hand and on his left, the Apennines in view, and Florence as the city towards which he directs
his steps. His way is through a country where corn grows under groves of fruit trees, whose
tops are woven into green arcades by thickly-clustering garlands of vines; the dark masses
of foliage and verdure which every where appear, melt insensibly, as he advances, into a succession
of shady bowers that invite him to their depths; the scenery is monotonous, and yet ever various
from the richness of its sylvan beauty, possessing all the softness of forest glades without
their gloom. Towards Bologna, the landscape roughens into hills, which grow into Apennines,
but Arcadia still breathes from slopes and lawns of tender green, which take their rise in
the low stream-watered valleys, and extend up the steep ascent till met midway by the lofty
chestnut groves which pale them in. To these gentler features succeeds the passage of the Apennines,
which here, at least, are not as the author of "Italy as it Is," describes them, "the children
of the Alps--smiling and gentle and happy as children should be," but, as we remember them,
their summits form themselves into a wild, dreary region, sown with sterile mountain-tops,
and torn to pieces by wind and storm; the only glimpse of peace is derived from the view on
either side of the sea, which sometimes shows itself on the horizon, a misty line, half silver,
half ether. This barren wilderness again softens into gracefully-swelling hills turned towards
Florence. The fair olive tree and the dark cypress mingle their foliage with the luxuriant
chestnut boughs, and the frequent marble villa flashes a white gleam from amid its surrounding
laurel bowers. The sky is more beautiful than earth, and each symbolize peace and serene enjoyment.--Westminster
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL MARVEL.

One of the most amusing stories in ancient history, of the successful and happy use of fine
music, is told of Arion, who, when about to be thrown overboard by some mutinous sailors, begged
leave to sing to his lute one funeral strain before his death. Having obtained leave, he stood
upon the prow with his instrument, chanted with a loud voice his sweetest elegy, and then threw
himself into the sea. A dolphin, as the story goes, charmed with his music, swam to him while
floating on the waves, bore him on his back, and carried him safely to Cape Taenarus, in Sparta,
from whence he went to Corinth. It would have been well for the mutineers if their taste for
music had been as great as the dolphin's, for the history not only affords a grand instance
of the power of music, but of retributive justice, as the sailors accidentally going to Corinth,
paid the penalty of their evil intentions with their lives.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULATION OF AUSTRALIA.

Mr. Martin mentions a very curious fact. The increase of population, he says, has been most
rapid, and is to be accounted for by the number of females born, the proportion being, with
regard to males, as three to one! The great preponderating number of females brought forth
among domesticated animals, will account for the countless herds of cattle which overspread
the colony.--New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLACK LADY OF ALTENÖTTING.

With the exception of the shrine of the Three Kings at Cologne, there exists throughout Germany
no spot of greater sanctity, no altar of richer endowments, than the Chapel of the Black Lady,
on the frontier of Bavaria. The hearts of its sovereign electors have been deposited, from
century to century, within the consecrated cells; nor is there an historic event, involving
the interests of their own, or the adjacent kingdoms, which is not supposed to have been influenced
by her potent interposition. A sufficient history, in fact, of the destinies of the whole empire,
might be recorded in a mere catalogue of the national offerings to the shrine of Altenötting.

In rambling through the eastern provinces of Bavaria, some few springs ago, I chanced to arrive
one glowing afternoon at the post-house of an inconsiderable town; which, from the grass-grown
tranquillity of its streets, and from a peculiar air of self-oblivion, appeared to be basking
fast asleep in the sunshine. There was little to admire in the common-place character of its
site, or the narrow meanness of its distribution; yet there was something peculiar in its look
of dreamy non-identity; and had it not been for the smiling faces of the fair-haired Bavarian
girls, who were to be seen glancing here and there, with their embroidered purple bodices and
coifs, and silver-chained stomachers, I could believe myself to have reached some enchanted
realm of forgetfulness.

As I entered the Platz, or market-square, of the little town, chiefly with a view to the nearer
inspection of the cunning workmanship of the aforesaid carcanets of silver, a light sprinkling
of April rain began to moisten the pavement--one of those unheard, unseen, revivifying showers,
which weep the earth into freshness, and the buds into maturity. I was anxious, however, to
withdraw my mere human nature from participation in these herbaceous advantages; and looking
about for some shelter which might preserve me from the mischiefs of the shower, without depriving
me of its refreshing fragrance, I espied in the centre of the Platz--a square of no mighty
area--a low, rotunda-like building, with slated roof, overhanging and resting upon wooden pillars,
so as to form a sort of covered walk.

I settled with myself that this was the market-house of the town, and hastened to besiege so
desirable a city of refuge. But during my rapid approach, I observed that the external walls
of the nameless edifice beneath the arcade were covered, and without a single interstitial
interval, by small pictures in oil-colours, equal in size, and equal in demerit, and each and
all representing some calamitous crisis of human existence--a fire, a ship-wreck, a boat-wreck,
a battle, a leprosy! It occurred to me at the same moment, that this gallery of mortal casualties
and afflictions must be a collection of votive offerings, and that the seeming market-house
was, probably, a shrine of especial sanctity. And so it was!--the shrine of "The Black Lady
of Altenötting."

Instigated by somewhat more than a traveller's vague curiosity, I entered the chapel; the brilliancy
of which, eternally illuminated by the reflection of a profusion of silver lamps upon the thousand
precious objects which decorate the walls, forms a startling contrast with the dim shadows
of the external arcade. In most cases, the entrance to a religious edifice impresses the mind
with a consciousness of vastness, and a sensation of awe:--

  "------the tombs
  And monumental caves of death look cold,
  And strike an aching dullness to the breast."

But the chapel of the Black Virgin is diminutive as a boudoir, and yet retains the usual character
of listening and awful stillness, the ordinary impression of local sanctity. A few peasants
were seen kneeling in utter immobility and self-abstraction beneath a lamp, which seemed to
issue in a crimson flame from a colossal two-fold silver heart, suspended from the ceiling--their
untutored minds were elevated into the belief of a heavenly commune.

In a glass case above the altar, is deposited this far-famed effigy of the Holy Galilean virgin--a
hideous female negro, carved in wood, and holding an infant Jesus in her arms of the same hue
and material; and exhibited in its extremity of ugliness by the reflected glare of the silver
and diamonds, and gems of every description, by which she is surrounded. Chests, mimic altars,
models of ships, crowns and sceptres, chalices and crosses of gold and silver and enamel, and
enriched with

  Turkish blue and emerald green,

and every jewel of every land, lie amassed in gorgeous profusion in the adjoining cases, and
seemed to realize the fabled treasures of the preadamite Sultans. Boasting themselves as gifts
of gratitude or invocation from emperors and popes, kings, princes, palsgraves, and all the
other minor thrones and dominions of the earth, these splendid offerings form the most plausible
illustration of the miraculous power attributed to the image of the Black Lady, which has been
deposited in its actual abode since the year of Grace 696. In the course of the Thirty Years'
War, this important relic and its treasury were twice removed into the city of Salzburg, for
security from the Swedish invaders; and twice brought back in solemn triumph to their ancient
sanctuary.

But a mightier charm than that of gems or metals, the most precious or the most beautiful,
connects itself with the chapel of Altenötting--its association with historical names of all
ages, from Charlemagne and Otto of Wittelsbach, whose monuments we find inscribed in Runic
characters, to Pius the Sixth, whose dedication, "O clemens, O pia Virgo Oettingana!" is graven
in a "fine Roman hand." It contains sepulchral vaults of the families of Wallenstein, Tilly,
Montecuculi, besides those of divers electors, archbishops, and archdukes, whose titles speak
far less stirringly to the heart; altogether forming an illustration of the past, which brings
the dark ages in living majesty before our eyes.

Alternately dazzled and disgusted by this fruitless waste of splendour, this still more fruitless
waste of national credulity, I was pondering over the domestic virtues of a certain "Franziska
Barbara, Countess of Tilly," as recorded over her grave, when the chants of the priests, who
had been engaged in the celebration of mass before the altar, suddenly ceased; and, as the
last fumes of the incense circled upwards to the blackened roof, there arose another and a
solitary voice, evidently of lay intonation, and deepened by that persuasive earnestness of
devotion which, like an electric chain, connects in holy feeling all sects of the Christian
church. It spoke in the fulness of gratitude, and in the humbleness of prayer; and although
the dialect was tinged with village barbarism, and its thankfulness addressed to the Black
Virgin, I heard in its simple solemnity only the beauty of holiness; and, overlooking the visible
shrine, beheld in its ultimate object the tribunal of divine mercy!

The devout speaker was one of a peasant family who had entered the chapel unobserved, during
my contemplation of its glittering decorations. He was apparently a Bavarian farmer, somewhat
advanced in years, and wearing, in addition to his richly-substantial holiday attire, a deep
green shade over his eyes, which accounted for the character of his thanksgivings to the miraculous
image. "I thank thee, O most benign and saintly Maria!" had been the tenour of his prayer,
"for the scattered and glorious gifts of Heaven, which had become as vain things to my soul,
till thy grace renewed them in its knowledge. I thank thee for the summer skies and the green
pastures--for the footsteps which no longer crave a helping hand--for the restored faces of
my beloved ones--and, above all, O holiest Virgin! I glorify thy name in gratitude for the
precious means by which the blessing of sight hath been again vouchsafed me!"

This last mode of expression excited my curiosity, and when the little group of votaries had
concluded their ceremonies, had affixed their consecrated tapers at the shrine, and deposited
their oblations with its officiating priests, I followed their joyful footsteps out of the
chapel, and was again struck by the delicious transition from the heated and incense-laden
atmosphere of its interior, to the pure, balmy April air without, gushing with the sweetness
of the passing shower.

