Run No. 136 was made on the 300-pound portion of stock from cooks Nos. 293, 294, 295, and 296,
and in essentially the same manner as run No. 135. The stock was washed one hour, but given
a brush of three hours, and this brush was harder than in run No. 135. Bleach to the extent
of 19.8 per cent of the fiber was used, assisted by 1 pint of oil of vitriol, and the resulting
color was an improvement over that of run No. 135. After adding 13.5 per cent of clay and sizing
with 1.1 per cent of resin size, the furnish was given one-half hour's light brush, tinted,
and run on the machine, which was set at 70 feet per minute. This stock acted better on the
wire and gave no trouble on the machine, but it still seemed to be impossible to reduce the
wood shives by manipulation of the Jordan refiner. The resulting sheet is an improvement over
that produced by No. 135, but is far from satisfactory.

Run No. 138 was made from hurds which, as in all subsequent tests, were sieved on a 11-1/2-mesh
wire screen until practically all the loose dirt and sand was removed, which operation caused
a loss averaging 3 per cent of the hurds. Stock from cooks Nos. 302 and 303 was used for this
run and the increased amount of caustic soda and the increase in the time of cooking gave a
stock of better appearance than those of preceding tests.

The stock, amounting to 231 pounds dry weight, was washed and at the same time given a light
brush for one hour only, after which it was bleached with 17 per cent of bleach without the
addition of acid. Since the preceding paper appeared somewhat weak and had a low tearing quality,
it was decided to use a furnish of 15.7 per cent bleached sulphite and 84.3 per cent bleached
hemp-hurd stock. The stock gave no trouble on the machine, but it was impossible to judge the
effect of the Jordan refiner, because through an oversight the machine chest had not been cleaned
since previous use on an unbleached yucca material. It is believed, however, that sheet No.
138 shows improvement in the preparation of the hurd pulp.

Run No. 139 was made from stock of cooks Nos. 304 and 305, in which still more caustic soda
was employed and the time and temperature of cooking were increased, giving a yield of total
fiber of 40.7 per cent of the sieved or 39.4 per cent of the unsieved hurds. The cooked stock
still seemed to be undertreated, but it must be remembered that in working with any new raw
material it is impossible to know in advance how the properly treated material should appear.
A washing of one hour was given while the roll was lowered from a light to a medium brush,
after which the stock was bleached with 17.1 per cent of bleach without the aid of acid. Since
sulphite stock improved the previous paper, this bleached stock was used in a furnish of 16.6
per cent sulphite and 83.4 per cent hurds, loaded with 16.7 per cent clay, sized with 1.4 per
cent resin size, given a medium brush of two hours, tinted, and run on to the machine at 70
feet per minute. The Jordan refiner seemed to have little effect in reducing shives and was
therefore left "just off." No trouble was experienced with the stock on the machine, and the
sheet is an improvement over previous samples.

Run No. 140 was made from cooks Nos. 306 and 307, in which more caustic soda was employed than
in any previous cooks and at a higher concentration, the fiber yields of which averaged 37.3
per cent of the unsieved hurds. Not much improvement was apparent in the cooked stock, in spite
of the increased severity of cooking. The stock was washed and given a medium brush for one
hour, bleached with 11.9 per cent of bleach, assisted with one-half pint of oil of vitriol,
and made into a furnish of 14.9 per cent sulphite and 85.1 per cent of the hurd stock. After
loading with 14.7 per cent of clay and sizing with 1.28 per cent of resin size, the furnish
was given two hours' medium brush, tinted, and run on to the paper machine at 70 feet per minute.
Again the Jordan refiner did not seem to reduce the wood shives sufficiently, and it was left
"just off." No trouble which could be attributed to the stock was experienced on the paper
machine. The color of the resulting paper is due to the use of too little blue in tinting and
probably in some measure to the use of too low a percentage of bleach.

Run No. 141 was made from the stock of cooks Nos. 308 and 309 in practically the same manner
as run No. 140. The stock was washed and brushed one hour, bleached (the record of the amount
of bleach was lost), made into a furnish of 14.7 per cent of sulphite and 85.3 per cent of
hurd stock, loaded with 14.9 per cent of clay, sized with 1.26 per cent of resin size, given
one hour at a medium brush, tinted, and run on to the machine. The Jordan refiner was able
to reduce the wood shives to a somewhat greater degree than in previous runs and was held at
a medium brush. The stock acted well on the machine and produced a sheet of better quality
than any preceding, with the exception of the color, which was due to using too small a quantity
of blue.

Among the cooks made for run No. 142 are Nos. 312 and 313, in which the concentration of the
caustic soda was raised to 113 and 116 grams per liter and the percentage employed was also
increased. In spite of these increases the stock from these two cooks did not show any appreciable
improvement when dumped from the rotary. Stock from cooks Nos. 310, 311, and 312 was given
a medium brush and washing of one hour, bleached with 10.95 per cent of bleach, made into a
furnish consisting of 15.2 per cent of sulphite and 84.8 per cent of hurd stock, loaded with
15.2 per cent of clay, sized with 1.28 per cent of resin size, given a medium brush for one
hour, tinted, and pumped to the stock chest. Stock from cooks Nos. 313 and 314 was treated
in exactly the same manner, except that 11.4 per cent of bleach was used. It was pumped to
the stock chest and mixed with the furnished stock from cooks Nos. 310, 311, and 312. A medium
Jordan brush was given the stock and it acted well on the paper machine, which was speeded
to 75 feet per minute. There seems to be a tendency in the hurd stock to crush a little at
the "dandy roll," and although the marks are not removed by the calender stack which was employed
in those tests it was found that one "nip" on the supercalenders renders them practically imperceptible
and it is believed that the proper size and weight of calender stack would entirely remove
these marks. All of the papers produced up to this point are somewhat lacking in the bulk desired
in a book paper; therefore, in the two following runs soda-poplar stock was included in the
furnishes.

In run No. 143 stock from cooks Nos. This stock was beaten to a greater extent than in previous
runs. The stock was run on the paper machine at a speed of 75 feet per minute, using a medium
Jordan brush, and no trouble whatsoever was experienced. Not over 2 pounds of "broke" was produced
during the whole run, and that was in the "threading" of the machine. The color of the sheet
is entirely satisfactory for many uses. The wood shives apparently were reduced to a satisfactory
degree. Experienced paper makers commented very favorably on the running of this furnish and
the quality of the paper produced.

