The embroidering of mats is easily done and the method is shown in Plate XXVI. Mats in over
and under weave, of solid color (either natural or dyed), are used, and the embroidery is done
with colored straws. Plate XXVII illustrates an embroidered color panel. Floral, geometrical,
and conventionalized designs are discussed under the headings "Samar mats" and "Special designs."

MAT MATERIALS.

Many Philippine mat materials have been described in a former publication on hats. [6] Only
additional and new information is written here and such data from Bulletin 33 as are necessary
to make a connected article. [7]

Buri Straw.

The Buri Palm.

There are about six species of the genus Corypha in tropical Asia, but only one of these is
found in the Philippines; this is Corypha elata, the buri palm. [8] It is widely distributed
throughout the Philippines but is most abundant in the central part of the Pampanga valley
and in southern Tayabas.

Mr. C. W. Franks, formerly Division Superintendent of Schools for Mindoro Province, had a careful
estimate made by his teaching force of the stands of buri palms on the Island of Mindoro. It
was found that 5,000 hectares of land on this island are covered by 2,000,000 buri palms, of
which 225,000, or about 12 per cent, are mature trees.

The Island of Burias, the Isla Verde, and other small islands are fairly covered with the palm.
The Province of Sorsogon, including the Island of Masbate, is also well supplied. In the Visayas
there are districts in Panay, Negros, Cebu, and Bohol, where many buri trees are found.

The buri is the largest palm that grows in the Philippines, attaining a height of 20 meters.
Its trunk is very erect, spirally ridged and up to 0.7 meter in diameter. Its wood is of no
commercial value.

The full-grown leaves may be three meters long. They are spherical in outline and the lower
one-third or one-half is entire, like the palm of the hand. The upper part is divided into
from 80 to 100 segments each from 1.5 to 6 cm. wide and appearing like fingers spread apart.
The petioles supporting the leaves are about 3 meters long and 20 cm. thick, and are provided
with long, stout, curved spines. Both margins and spines are black in color. At flowering time
all the leaves are shed. The young leaf grows out from the top of the palm with the segments
pressed together in the form of a lance.

The buri flowers and fruits but once and then dies. This is said to occur when the plant is
from 25 to 40 years old. The individual flowers are greenish-white in color and only from 5
to 6 mm. in diameter. They are nevertheless perfect flowers, with calyx, corolla, and ovary
showing plainly a division into threes, and stamens six in number. Thousands of these flowers
occur on the large, terminal, much branched, pyramidal inflorescence which may grow to be 7
meters in height. The lower branches of this inflorescence may be as much as 3.5 meters long,
the upper shorter, the highest about one meter in length.

From 10 to 12 months after flowering the fruits are mature. They are from 2 to 2.5 cm. in diameter
and each contains an extremely hard seed 1.5 cm. in diameter.

Preparation.

Buri straw is prepared from the young, unopened leaf of the buri palm. The coarsest straw is
made by separating the leaflets from the midribs and drying them in the sun. A higher grade
straw results from boiling them in water. Such straws are suitable only for bayon manufacture
and for weaving into coarse mats for baling purposes.

Several methods of bleaching buri straw obtain in various localities. Any exact description
of the processes is somewhat difficult, since the persons who produce the straw have no very
definite idea of the proportions and quantities of various materials which they use, and often
do not care to divulge what they consider trade secrets. In several cases, nevertheless, supervising
teachers have succeeded in obtaining fairly exact data on the preparation of buri straw.

However, the same method carried out in different towns seems to result in different qualities
of straw. These differences probably result from slight variations in the method of preparation.
It has also been found that the age of the leaf, as determined by the length of the stem (petiole),
influences the color of the straw produced. In some districts the unopened leaf is not taken
if the stem is over two inches in length. In other places, leaves with stems about one foot
high are considered ready to cut. It is probable, too, that the composition of the water in
which the straw is boiled influences its color. Mauban, in Tayabas province, has the reputation
of producing the whitest buri straw. Mr. John H. Finnigan, supervising teacher, attempted to
introduce buri straw into the schools of Gumaca, Tayabas, where the buri palm is very plentiful.
The work was in charge of expert weavers from Mauban, but only a poor quality of straw was
produced. It was claimed that the water in which the segments were boiled, according to the
process which is explained later, did not whiten them. It is a fact that in Mauban the water
of the town fountain is used to produce the fine white straw. In the several years of his experience,
Mr. Finnigan found no place outside of Mauban which produces straw equal in color to the Mauban
straw, but he has noted that the second best straw comes from San Fernando, Gumaca, where there
is an especially clear stream of water.

In fact, all reports would seem to indicate that clear, pure water is essential to the production
of the finest white buri straw, and only such should be used in all processes of the various
methods outlined here.

The Arayat Process.--Mr. Robert Clauson, supervising teacher, has determined the process of
whitening buri straw in Arayat, Pampanga, as follows: The segments are separated from the midrib
and rolled rather loosely, so that the water may pass between them, in bundles as large around
as a plate. These are placed in a large can or vat containing tamarind leaves and alum (see
bleaching agents) in water, and the whole is boiled until about one-half of the water has evaporated.
During the boiling the buri must be tightly covered with tamarind leaves and not be allowed
to project from the water. After this process the rolls are placed in a jar full of clear water
and left to soak for three days. The strips are then washed several times in the river during
a period of three days, and they are then laid on the grass or along fences to dry after each
washing. The oftener they are alternately washed and dried the whiter and tougher will the
material be. After the final drying, which should be thorough, the strips are rolled very tightly
into bundles.

The San Luis Method.--The method of whitening buri straw followed in San Luis, Pampanga, is
described by Mr. James H. Bass, supervising teacher. The unopened leaves are brought down the
Chico River in rafts. The segments are torn from the midrib and boiled for four hours in five
gallons of water to which one liter of nipa vinegar, a lump of alum the size of an egg, a handful
of tamarind leaves, and a handful of pandakaki leaves (see bleaching agents) have been added.
Other steps follow as in the previous process.

The Mauban Process.--The following description is taken from Circular No. 27, series 1911,
of the Division of Tayabas. Let the unopened leaves, cut from the stalk, stand in a cool shady
place several days, until the sap has well run. Open the leaves and separate the segments from
the midrib with a sharp knife. Put these carefully into a petroleum can or other suitable receptacle
filled with a boiling solution of two-thirds water and one-third white nipa or coconut tubá
vinegar (see bleaching agents). Keep the solution boiling until the segments are cooked so
soft that folding them leaves no crease.

Spread the cooked leaves on clean grass in the sun to dry. The drying process may require one
or two days. When the segments are quite dry, prepare a jar with clear soft water, and put
them in this to soak over night. In the morning remove them from the jar, wash them thoroughly
in clear running soft water and place them in the sun. At noon repeat the washing process until
the segments open, then dry thoroughly in the sun.

It is customary to roll the buri into coils in order to make it more convenient to store. The
dry leaflets may be made flexible for this purpose by laying them on the grass in the night
air. After a few minutes they will be flexible enough to roll. Care must be taken to have the
segments smoothly rolled. When used, they should be smoothed carefully and then split into
the widths required.

The process can also be followed with rice vinegar (see bleaching agents) substituted for the
tuba vinegar.

Wash two chupas of rice and cook it in water until it becomes very soft and starchy. Put this
in a clean petroleum can and add cold water until the can is two-thirds full, then cover the
can and let it stand five or six days. This mixture will become very sour. Strain it through
a piece of sinamay or other cloth. Cook the segments in this mixture instead of in the solution
described in the first process, and then carry out all the other steps.

The Romblon Process.--In Romblon, great care is exercised as to the age of the unopened leaf
taken for the production of straw. If it is intended to produce bleached straw, stalks having
stems about two inches long are selected. In the following description, which was submitted
by Mr. R. L. Barron, head teacher, one unopened leaf is taken as a unit. The midribs are removed
and the segments are rolled into round bundles, say by fives. These are boiled in clear water
for about three hours. The leaves are then placed in a mixture of half a liter of tuba vinegar
(or three liters of vinegar made from cooked rice, or one-fourth liter of lemon juice) to which
enough water has been added to cover the rolls of buri, and boiled for about five hours. The
material is then spread in the sun for three days to dry, care being taken that it is not exposed
to rain or dew. The segments are then placed in cool clear water for twelve hours and again
placed out in the sun for two days to dry.

The Dyeing of Buri Straw.

Buri straw intended for mats is usually colored with the cheap imported coal tar dyes previously
noted. It is expected that the new dyes for which the Bureau of Education has arranged will
take the place of these. Romblon buri mats, which are the finest in point of workmanship and
design made in the Philippines, are colored entirely by local vegetable dyes.

The methods used in the island of Romblon in dyeing buri straw have been carefully investigated
by Mr. Barron, and are presented herewith. In each case the unit of material is one stalk of
buri for each color. The process of whitening Romblon buri straw has already been described.

For red, unopened leaves having stems three feet long should be selected. The midribs are removed
while green, and the leaves are rolled into bundles of convenient size, say by fives. They
are then placed in a fluid made by boiling two gantas of kolis leaves (see mordants) in plain
water for one hour. The buri leaves remain in the water and soak thus for three days and three
nights. The buri leaflets are then placed in a vessel containing two gantas of sappan wood
(see dyes), one-half liter of lime water, and one chupa of tobacco leaves. To this a sufficient
quantity of plain water is added to thoroughly submerge the buri, and the whole is boiled for
eight hours, being stirred at short intervals to obtain a uniform shade of red. The segments
are then removed and hung in the wind for about six hours to dry, after which they are smoothed
and rolled.

For yellow-orange, unopened leaves having stems about two inches long are selected and the
segments are removed from the midribs and rolled into bundles. These are boiled in clear water
for about three hours and spread in the sun for three days to dry, care being taken that the
buri is not exposed to rain or dew. The material is then placed in a vessel containing one
ganta of powdered turmeric (see dyes), one chupa of powdered annatto seeds (see dyes), one
liter of lime water, and sufficient clear water to cover the buri, and is boiled in this mixture
for five hours, with frequent stirring. It is then removed and hung in the wind for one-half
day to dry, and is smoothed and rolled. After this, they are boiled in lye (consisting of ashes)
for about two hours, the mixture of ashes and water covering the buri during the process. The
bundles are then removed from the vessel, wrapped in a bayon, and put in a dark place for 48
hours. The segments are then taken out and hung in the wind for about three hours to dry, and
are smoothed and rolled.

The preliminary steps in the production of "black straw" (a cold dark gray) are the same in
the making of the green material. The segments taken from the bayon, as described above, are
buried three days in black mud, in a rice paddy, for instance. The material is then washed
in plain water until clean, and is then boiled for two hours in a mixture of one-half ganta
each of the leaves of talisay, indigo, and tiagkot (see dyes), with a sufficient quantity of
water to cover the mixture. The whole should be stirred at frequent intervals. After two hours
the strips are removed and hung in the wind for five hours to dry. Then they are smoothed and
rolled.

Types of Buri Mats.

The Bontoc Peninsula of Tayabas produces great quantities of baling mats and bayons. Bayons
are also produced in large quantities in Capiz province. Other localities are of less importance.

Buri sleeping mats are made from the northernmost part of Luzon, in the Bangui Peninsula, to
the Sulu Archipelago. For the most part they are woven in small numbers here and there, in
the different towns, sometimes for use in the household in which they are made, often for local
trade in the barrios or municipalities. In nearly every province there is at least one town
in which the production of buri mats reaches provincial commercial importance. A number of
municipalities produce them for a fairly extensive trade with neighboring provinces. In most
cases these are ordinary products, usually decorated with a few colors in lines or checks of
dyed straws, either woven in or embroidered on the mat.

In one region, however, buri mats have reached such a degree of perfection in their weaving
and decoration as to have become a distinctive product known throughout the Islands. These
are the Romblon buri mats, and they are produced throughout the islands of Romblon. Their central
market is the town of the same name. They are distinctive because of the fine white and colored
materials used, and of the designs which are woven in them. In the designing, not only checks
and line borders but also plaids appear, and many of the effects produced by floating straws
are employed. The Romblon mat, moreover, is most noticeable because of the fancy weave, making
a sort of open work along the border, for which these mats are unique. Romblon exports great
quantities of mats varying in price from P0.25, to over P10, and in size from small mats for
stands to large decorative mats which cover the sides of rooms. [9]

Pandan Straws.

Description of Pandans.

Pandans or "screw-pines," as they are sometimes called, are readily recognized by their characteristic
appearance. [10] The common forms occasionally planted in pots as house plants and in gardens,
or more often found growing wild, have long and rather narrow leaves always supplied with more
or less sharp spines which run along both their margins to the very tip. Another row of spines
is present on the under surface along the midrib. Bearing in mind this middle row of spines
it is impossible to mistake the leaf of the pandan for that of the pineapple or maguey, which
it resembles more or less in form and shape. Another very prominent feature of pandans is the
presence of air or prop roots which grow from the stem above the ground and are helpful to
the plant in various ways. The veins of the leaves always run parallel and in a longitudinal
direction. The leaves are never borne on a petiole, but are attached directly, in winding corkscrew
fashion, in ranks of three, to the stem.

Pandans are true tropical shrubs or trees. Although also found in the subtropics of Australia,
they never occur in other temperate regions except when raised as ornamental plants in greenhouses.
Even their distribution in the tropics is limited, as they are found growing wild only in the
tropical regions of the Old World, especially on the islands lying between the mainland of
Australia and southeastern Asia. They are hardly ever cultivated, for where they do occur they
are found in more than sufficient quantity for the purposes to which they are put. They are
essentially seacoast or open swamp forms, generally found at low altitudes and appearing to
find a moist, warm climate most congenial to their growth. In the Philippines they occur in
all provinces, though not always in sufficient quantity to make them of commercial importance.

The structure of the pandans presents many exceedingly interesting characteristics well worth
noticing. Some plants are very low with leaves not wider than a blade of grass, while others
form large trees with leaves many meters long and several decimeters wide. Spines generally
occur along the whole margin of the leaf, though in a few forms, especially in cultivated varieties,
they may be present only at the tip or may be wanting entirely. The marginal spines usually
curve forward and vary in size from small, hardly perceptible forms, to large sharp conical
structures. At times they are set very close together; again they may be several centimeters
apart. Those on the midrib most often curve backwards and may vary the same as the marginal
spines. Generally the spines are green in color, though in some species they are pale-green,
red, black or white.

Some forms seem to creep along the ground, while others, low and bushy and standing close together,
form, with their numerous supporting prop roots, an almost impenetrable jungle. The high tree
forms are very striking because of their peculiarly shaped crowns.

The first roots which the pandans develop soon disappear and their place is taken by others.
Starting high above the ground, these grow at an angle from the stem and generally reach the
soil. They serve the twofold purpose of supporting the stem and of supplying it with sufficient
air. If, by accident, the underground roots die off, the plant relies entirely on these air
and prop roots for support and food. The strong prop roots are generally of the same diameter
throughout, though sometimes they thicken at the ends. Normally they never branch above the
ground, but after reaching the soil very often divide. The tip of the roots is protected by
a cap, while a layer of cork tissue prevents the drying out of the root body.

