'I do not,' Julia replied, 'think that her faith in Judaism is of much avail to her. She has
found pleasure in reading the sacred books of the Jews, and has often expressed warmly her
admiration of the great principles of moral living and of religious belief found in them; but
I do not think that she has derived from them that which she conceives to be the sum of all
religion and philosophy, a firm belief and hope of immortality. I am sure she has not. She
has sometimes spoken as if such a belief possessed likelihood, but never as if she entertained
it in the way the Christian does.'

       *       *       *       *       *

You will rejoice, dear Fausta, to learn that Zenobia no longer opposes me; but waits with impatience
for the day when I shall be an inmate of her palace.

What think you is the news to-day in Rome? No other and no less than this--which you may well
suppose has for some time been no news to me--that Livia is to be Empress! It has just been
made public by authority; and I despatch my letter that you may be immediately informed of
it. It has brought another expression upon the countenance of Zenobia.

Curtius and Lucilia have this moment come in, and full of these tidings interrupt me--they
with Portia wish to be remembered to you with affection. I shall soon write again--telling
you then especially of my interviews with Aurelian, and of Probus. Farewell.

Note.

Piso, it will be observed, makes no mention of, nor allusion to, the story recorded by the
historian Zosimus, of the Queen's public accusation of Longinus and the other principal persons
of Palmyra, as authors of the rebellion, in order to save her own life. It is well known that
Zenobia, chiefly on the authority of this historian, has been charged with having laid upon
Longinus and her other counsellors, all the blame of the revolt, as if she had been driven
by them against her will into the course she pursued. The words of Zosimus are as follows:

'Emisam rediit et Zenobiam cum suis complicibus pro tribunali stitit. Illa causas exponens,
et eulpa semet eximens multos alios in medium protulit, qui cam veluti faeminam seduxissent;
quorum in numero et Longinus erat.--Itidem alii quos Zenobia detulerat suppliciis adficiebatur.'

This is suspicious upon the face of it. As if Aurelian needed a formal tribunal and the testimony
of Zenobia to inform him who the great men of Palmyra were, and her chief advisers. Longinus,
at least, we may suppose, was as well known as Zenobia. But if there was a formal tribunal,
then evidence was heard--and not upon one side only, but both. If therefore the statements
of Zenobia were false, there were Longinus and the other accused persons, with their witnesses,
to make it appear so. If they were true--if she had been overruled--led--or driven--by her
advisers, then it was not unreasonable that punishment--if some must suffer--should fall where
it did.

But against Zosimus may be arrayed the words of Aurelian himself, in a letter addressed to
the Roman senate, and preserved by Pollio. He says,

  'Nec ego illi (Zenobiae) vitam conservassem nisi cam scissem multum Rom:
  Reip. profuisse, quum sibi vel liberis suis Orientis servaret imperium.'

Aurelian here says that he would not have spared her life but for one reason, namely, that
she had done such signal service to the republic, when either for herself or for her children
she had saved the empire in the East. Aurelian spared her life, if he himself is to be believed,
because of services rendered to Rome, NOT because by the accusation of others she had cleared
herself of the charge of rebellion. Her life was never in any danger, if this be true; and
unless it were, she of course had no motive to criminate Longinus in the manner related by Zosimus.

Longinus and his companions suffered therefore, not in consequence of any special accusation--it
was not needed for their condemnation--but as a matter of course, because they were leaders
and directors of the revolt. It was the usage of war.

Why are Pollio (the biographer of Zenobia) and Vopiscus (the biographer of Aurelian) and Zonaras
all silent respecting so remarkable a point of the history of Zenobia? Pollio does not hesitate
to say that she had been thought by some to have been partner in the crime of murdering Odenatus
and his son Herod--a charge which never found credit in any quarter. Such a biographer surely
would not have passed over in silence the unutterable baseness of Zenobia in the accusation
of Longinus, if he had ever heard of it and had esteemed it to have come to him as well vouched
at least as the other story. Omission under such circumstances is good evidence that it came
to him not so well vouched--that is, not vouched at all.

Supposing Zenobia to have been guilty of the crime laid to her charge, could Aurelian have
treated her afterwards in the way he did? He not only took her to Rome and gave her a palace
at Tibur, and the state of a Queen, but according to some, [Footnote: Filiam (Zenobiae) unam
uxorem duxisse Aurellanum; caeteras nobilibus Romanis despondisee.--Zonoras, lib. xii. p. 480.]
married one of her daughters. Could he have done all this had she been the mean, base and wicked
woman Zosimus makes her out to be? The history of this same eastern expedition furnishes a
case somewhat in point, and which may serve to show in what light he would probably have regarded
Zenobia. Tyana, a city of Asia Minor, for a long time resisted all his attempts to reduce it.
At length it was betrayed into his hands by one of its chief citizens, Heraclammon. How did
Aurelian receive and treat him after entering the city? Let Vopiscus reply: 'Nam et Heraclammon
proditorem patriae suse sapiens victor occidit.'--'Heraclammon who betrayed his country the
conqueror wisely slew.' But this historian has preserved a letter of Aurelian, in which he
speaks of this same traitor:

'Aurelianus Aug: Mallio Chiloni. Occidi passus sum cujus quasi beneficio Tyanam recepi. Ego
vero proditorem amare non potui; et libenter tuli quod eum milites occiderunt: neque enim mihi
fidem servare potuisset qui patriae non pepercit,' etc. He permits Heraclammon to be slain
because he could not love a traitor, and because one who had betrayed his country could not
be trusted--while Zenobia, if Zosimus is to be believed, whose act was of the same kind--only
infinitely more base--he receives and crowns with distinguished honor, and marries her daughter!

'Zosime pretend,' says Tillemont, 'que ce fut Zenobie mesme qui se dechargea sur eux des choses
don't on l'accusoit, (ce qui repondroit bien mal a cette grandeur d'ame qu'on lay attribue.')--Hist,
des Emp. t. II. p. 212.

The evidence of Zosimus is not of so high a character as justly to weigh against a strong internal
improbability, or the silence of other historians. Gibbon says of him, 'In good policy we must
use the service of Zosimus without esteeming him or trusting him,' and repeatedly designates
him as 'credulous,' 'partial,' 'disingenuous.' By Tillemont he is called a 'bad authority.'

Nothing would seem to be plainer, than that Aurelian spared Zenobia because she was a woman;
because she was a beautiful and every way remarkable woman; and as he himself says, because
she had protected and saved the empire in the East; and that he sacrificed Longinus and the
other chief men of Palmyra, because such was the usage of war.

Page 122. Piso speaks of the prowess of Aurelian, and of the songs sung in the camp in honor
of him. Vopiscus has preserved one of these.

  'Mille mille, mille, decollavimus,
  Unus homo mille decollavimus,
  Mille vivat qui mille occidit.
  Tantum vini habet nemo
  Quantum fudit sanguinis.

  'Mille Sarmatas, mille Francos
  Semel et semel occidimus
  Mille Persas quaerimus.'

The two letters on pages 135 and 137, it will be observed, are nearly the same as those found
in Vopiscus.

On page 172, Aurelian is designated by a soldier under the nick-name of 'Hand-to-his-Sword.'
Vopiscus also mentions this as a name by which he was known in the army. 'Nam quum essent in
exercitu duo Aureliani tribuni, hic, et alius qui cum Valeriano captus est, huic signum (cognomen)
exercitus apposuerat "Mannus ad ferrum,"' &c.

Page 280. Piso represents Aurelian as wearing a crown. He was the first since the Tarquins
who had dared to invest his brow with that symbol of tyranny. So says Aurelius Victor. 'Iste
primus apud Romanos Diadema capiti innexuit; gemmisque et aurata omni veste, quod adhuc fere
incognitum Romanis moribus videbatur, usus est.'

On the same page, in the account of the triumph, a chariot of Zenobia is stated to have been
exhibited, in which it was her belief that she should enter Rome in triumph, which indeed had
been made for that very purpose. This singular fact is confirmed by Vopiscus--'tertius, (currus)
quem sibi Zenobia composuerat sperans se urbem Romanam cum eo visuram; quod eam non fefellit,
nam cum eo urbem ingressa est victa et triumphata.'