"Never again," said Peter in a small voice, "will I credit myself with any deep discernment,
any keen penetration. How I could have read that matter and looked at those pictures and not
seen you in and through and over them is a thing I can't imagine. It's great, Linda, absolutely
great! Of course I will help you any way in the world I can. And what else was it you wanted?
You said two things."

"Oh, the other doesn't amount to much," said Linda. "I only wanted the comfort of knowing whether,
as soon as I graduate, I may take Katy and come home, Peter."

From previous experience with Linda, Peter had learned that a girl reared by men is not as
other women. He had supposed the other thing concerning which she had wanted to appeal to him
was on par with her desire for sympathy and help concerning her book. At her question, with
her eyes frankly meeting his, Peter for an instant felt lightheaded. He almost dodged, he was
so sweepingly taken unawares. Linda was waiting and his brain was not working. He tried to
smile, but he knew she would not recognize as natural the expression of that whirling moment.
She saw his hesitation.

"Of course, if you don't want us, Peter--"

Peter found his voice promptly. Only his God knew how much he wanted Linda, but there were
conditions that a man of Peter's soul-fiber could not endure. More than life he wanted her,
but he did not want her asleep. He did not want to risk her awakening to a spoiled life and
disappointed hopes.

"But you remember that I told you coming home from San Francisco that you knew the Lady of
my Iris better than anyone else, and that I was planning to take Katy, not from you, but with you."

"Of course I remember," said Linda. "That is why when Marian and Eileen and Donald and all
my world went past and left me standing desolate, and my work piled up until I couldn't see
my way, I just started right out to ask you if you would help me with the proof. Of course
I knew you would be glad to do that and I thought if you really meant in your heart that I
was the one to complete your iris procession, it would be a comfort to me during the hard work
and the lonesome days to have it put in two-syllable English. Marian said that was the only
real way--"

"And Marian is eminently correct. You will have to give me an ordinary lifetime, Linda, in
which to try to make you understand exactly what this means to me. Perhaps I'll even have to
invent new words in which to express myself."

"Oh, that's all right," said Linda. "It means a lot to me too. I can't tell you how much I
think of you. That first day, as soon as I put down the Cotyledon safely and tucked in my blouse,
I would have put my hand in yours and started around the world, if you had asked me to. I have
the very highest esteem for you, Peter."

"Esteem, yes," said Peter slowly. "But Linda-girl, isn't the sort of alliance I am asking you
to enter with me usually based on something a good bit stronger than 'esteem'?"

"Yes, I think it is," said Linda. "But you needn't worry. I only wanted the comfort of knowing
that I was not utterly alone again, save for Katy. I'll stick to my book and to my fight for
Senior honors all right."

Peter was blinking his eyes and fighting to breathe evenly. When he could speak he said as
smoothly as possible: "Of course, Linda. I'll do your proof for you and you may put all your
time on class honors. It merely occurred to me to wonder whether you realized the full and
ultimate significance of what we are saying; exactly what it means to me and to you."

