The squire at last decided that he would go. He went to Courcy Castle, and found that Crosbie
had started two hours before his arrival. He asked for Lady Julia, and learned from her that
Crosbie had actually left the house as the betrothed husband of Lady Alexandrina.

"The countess, I am sure, will not contradict it, if you will see her," said Lady Julia. But
this the squire was unwilling to do. He would not proclaim the wretched condition of his niece
more loudly than was necessary, and therefore he started on his pursuit of Crosbie. What was
his success on that evening we have already learned.

Both Lady Alexandrina and her mother heard of Mr Dale's arrival at the castle, but nothing
was said between them on the subject. Lady Amelia Gazebee heard of it also, and she ventured
to discuss the matter with her sister.

"You don't know exactly how far it went, do you?"

"No; yes;--not exactly, that is," said Alexandrina.

"I suppose he did say something about marriage to the girl?"

"Yes, I'm afraid he did."

"Dear, dear! It's very unfortunate. What sort of people are those Dales? I suppose he talked
to you about them."

"No, he didn't; not very much. I daresay she is an artful, sly thing! It's a great pity men
should go on in such a way."

"Yes, it is," said Lady Amelia. "And I do suppose that in this case the blame has been more
with him than with her. It's only right I should tell you that."

"But what can I do?"

"I don't say you can do anything; but it's as well you should know."

"But I don't know, and you don't know; and I can't see that there is any use talking about
it now. I knew him a long while before she did, and if she has allowed him to make a fool of
her, it isn't my fault."

"Nobody says it is, my dear."

"But you seem to preach to me about it. What can I do for the girl? The fact is, he don't care
for her a bit, and never did."

"Then he shouldn't have told her that he did."

"That's all very well, Amelia; but people don't always do exactly all that they ought to do.
I suppose Mr Crosbie isn't the first man that has proposed to two ladies. I dare say it was
wrong, but I can't help it. As to Mr Dale coming here with a tale of his niece's wrongs, I
think it very absurd,--very absurd indeed. It makes it look as though there had been a scheme
to catch Mr Crosbie, and it's my belief that there was such a scheme."

"I only hope that there'll be no quarrel."

"Men don't fight duels nowadays, Amelia."

"But do you remember what Frank Gresham did to Mr Moffat when he behaved so badly to poor Augusta?"

"Mr Crosbie isn't afraid of that kind of thing. And I always thought that Frank was very wrong,--very
wrong indeed. What's the good of two men beating each other in the street?"

"Well; I'm sure I hope there'll be no quarrel. But I own I don't like the look of it. You see
the uncle must have known all about it, and have consented to the marriage, or he would not
have come here."

"I don't see that it can make any difference to me, Amelia."

"No, my dear, I don't see that it can. We shall be up in town soon, and I will see as much
as possible of Mr Crosbie. The marriage, I hope, will take place soon."

"He talks of February."

"Don't put it off, Alley, whatever you do. There are so many slips, you know, in these things."

"I'm not a bit afraid of that," said Alexandrina, sticking up her head.

"I dare say not; and you may be sure that we will keep an eye on him. Mortimer will get him
up to dine with us as often as possible, and as his leave of absence is all over, he can't
get out of town. He's to be here at Christmas, isn't he?"

"Of course he is."

"Mind you keep him to that. And as to these Dales, I would be very careful, if I were you,
not to say anything unkind of them to any one. It sounds badly in your position." And with
this last piece of advice Lady Amelia Gazebee allowed the subject to drop.

On that day Lady Julia returned to her own home. Her adieux to the whole family at Courcy Castle
were very cold, but about Mr Crosbie and his lady-love at Allington she said no further word
to any of them. Alexandrina did not show herself at all on the occasion, and indeed had not
spoken to her enemy since that evening on which she had felt herself constrained to retreat
from the drawing-room.

"Good-bye," said the countess. "You have been so good to come, and we have enjoyed it so much."

"I thank you very much. Good-morning," said Lady Julia, with a stately courtesy.

"Pray remember me to your brother. I wish we could have seen him; I hope he has not been hurt
by the--the bull." And then Lady Julia went her way.

"What a fool I have been to have that woman in the house," said the countess, before the door
was closed behind her guest's back.

"Indeed you have," said Lady Julia, screaming back through the passage. Then there was a long
silence, then a suppressed titter, and after that a loud laugh.

"Oh, mamma, what shall we do?" said Lady Amelia.

"Do!" said Margaretta; "why should we do anything? She has heard the truth for once in her life."

"Dear Lady Dumbello, what will you think of us?" said the countess, turning round to another
guest, who was also just about to depart. "Did any one ever know such a woman before?"

"I think she's very nice," said Lady Dumbello, smiling.

"I can't quite agree with you there," said Lady Clandidlem. "But I do believe she means to
do her best. She is very charitable, and all that sort of thing."

"I'm sure I don't know," said Rosina. "I asked her for a subscription to the mission for putting
down the Papists in the west of Ireland, and she refused me point-blank."

"Now, my dear, if you're quite ready," said Lord Dumbello, coming into the room. Then there
was another departure; but on this occasion the countess waited till the doors were shut, and
the retreating footsteps were no longer heard. "Have you observed," said she to Lady Clandidlem,
"that she has not held her head up since Mr Palliser went away?"

"Indeed I have," said Lady Clandidlem. "As for poor Dumbello, he's the blindest creature I
ever saw in my life."

"We shall hear of something before next May," said Lady de Courcy, shaking her head; "but for
all that she'll never be Duchess of Omnium."

"I wonder what your mamma will say of me when I go away to-morrow," said Lady Clandidlem to
Margaretta, as they walked across the hall together.

"She won't say that you are going to run away with any gentleman," said Margaretta.

"At any rate not with the earl," said Lady Clandidlem. "Ha, ha, ha! Well, we are all very good-natured,
are we not? The best is that it means nothing."

Thus by degrees all the guests went, and the family of the de Courcys was left to the bliss
of their own domestic circle. This, we may presume, was not without its charms, seeing that
there were so many feelings in common between the mother and her children. There were drawbacks
to it, no doubt, arising perhaps chiefly from the earl's bodily infirmities. "When your father
speaks to me," said Mrs George to her husband, "he puts me in such a shiver that I cannot open
my mouth to answer him."

"You should stand up to him," said George. "He can't hurt you, you know. Your money's your
own; and if I'm ever to be the heir, it won't be by his doing."

"But he gnashes his teeth at me."

"You shouldn't care for that, if he don't bite. He used to gnash them at me; and when I had
to ask him for money I didn't like it; but now I don't mind him a bit. He threw the peerage
at me one day, but it didn't go within a yard of my head."

"If he throws anything at me, George, I shall drop upon the spot."

But the countess had a worse time with the earl than any of her children. It was necessary
that she should see him daily, and necessary also that she should say much that he did not
like to hear, and make many petitions that caused him to gnash his teeth. The earl was one
of those men who could not endure to live otherwise than expensively, and yet was made miserable
by every recurring expense. He ought to have known by this time that butchers, and bakers,
and corn-chandlers, and coal-merchants will not supply their goods for nothing; and yet it
always seemed as though he had expected that at this special period they would do so. He was
an embarrassed man, no doubt, and had not been fortunate in his speculations at Newmarket or
Homburg; but, nevertheless, he had still the means of living without daily torment; and it
must be supposed that his self-imposed sufferings, with regard to money, rose rather from his
disposition than his necessities. His wife never knew whether he were really ruined, or simply
pretending it. She had now become so used to her position in this respect, that she did not
allow fiscal considerations to mar her happiness. Food and clothing had always come to her,--including
velvet gowns, new trinkets, and a man-cook,--and she presumed that they would continue to come.
But that daily conference with her husband was almost too much for her. She struggled to avoid
it; and, as far as the ways and means were concerned, would have allowed them to arrange themselves,
if he would only have permitted it. But he insisted on seeing her daily in his own sitting-room;
and she had acknowledged to her favourite daughter, Margaretta, that those half-hours would
soon be the death of her. "I sometimes feel," she said, "that I am going mad before I can get
out." And she reproached herself, probably without reason, in that she had brought much of
this upon herself. In former days the earl had been constantly away from home, and the countess
had complained. Like many other women, she had not known when she was well off. She had complained,
urging upon her lord that he should devote more of his time to his own hearth. It is probable
that her ladyship's remonstrances had been less efficacious than the state of his own health
in producing that domestic constancy which he now practised; but it is certain that she looked
back with bitter regret to the happy days when she was deserted, jealous, and querulous. "Don't
you wish we could get Sir Omicron to order him to the German Spas?" she had said to Margaretta.
Now Sir Omicron was the great London physician, and might, no doubt, do much in that way.

But no such happy order had as yet been given; and, as far as the family could foresee, paterfamilias
intended to pass the winter with them at Courcy. The guests, as I have said, were all gone,
and none but the family were in the house when her ladyship waited upon her lord one morning
at twelve o'clock, a few days after Mr Dale's visit to the castle. He always breakfasted alone,
and after breakfast found in a French novel and a cigar what solace those innocent recreations
were still able to afford him. When the novel no longer excited him and when he was saturated
with smoke, he would send for his wife. After that, his valet would dress him. "She gets it
worse than I do," the man declared in the servants' hall, "and minds it a deal more. I can
give warning, and she can't."

"Better? No, I ain't better," the husband said, in answer to his wife's inquiries. "I never
shall be better while you keep that cook in the kitchen."

"But where are we to get another if we send him away?"

"It's not my business to find cooks. I don't know where you're to get one. It's my belief you
won't have a cook at all before long. It seems you have got two extra men into the house without
telling me."

"We must have servants, you know, when there is company. It wouldn't do to have Lady Dumbello
here, and no one to wait on her."

"Who asked Lady Dumbello? I didn't."

"I'm sure, my dear, you liked having her here."

"D---- Lady Dumbello!" and then there was a pause. The countess had no objection whatsoever
to the above proposition, and was rejoiced that that question of the servants was allowed to
slip aside, through the aid of her ladyship.

"Look at that letter from Porlock," said the earl; and he pushed over to the unhappy mother
a letter from her eldest son. Of all her children he was the one she loved the best; but him
she was never allowed to see under her own roof. "I sometimes think that he is the greatest
rascal with whom I ever had occasion to concern myself," said the earl.

She took the letter and read it. The epistle was certainly not one which a father could receive
with pleasure from his son; but the disagreeable nature of its contents was the fault rather
of the parent than of the child. The writer intimated that certain money due to him had not
been paid with necessary punctuality, and that unless he received it, he should instruct his
lawyer to take some authorised legal proceedings. Lord de Courcy had raised certain moneys
on the family property, which he could not have raised without the co-operation of his heir,
and had bound himself, in return for that co-operation, to pay a certain fixed income to his
eldest son. This he regarded as an allowance from himself; but Lord Porlock regarded it as
his own, by lawful claim. The son had not worded his letter with any affectionate phraseology.
"Lord Porlock begs to inform Lord de Courcy--" Such had been the commencement.

"I suppose he must have his money; else how can he live?" said the countess, trembling.

"Live!" shouted the earl. "And so you think it proper that he should write such a letter as
that to his father!"

"It is all very unfortunate," she replied.

"I don't know where the money's to come from. As for him, if he were starving, it would serve
him right. He's a disgrace to the name and the family. From all I hear, he won't live long."

"Oh, de Courcy, don't talk of it in that way!"

"What way am I to talk of it? If I say that he's my greatest comfort, and living as becomes
a nobleman, and is a fine healthy man of his age, with a good wife and a lot of legitimate
children, will that make you believe it? Women are such fools. Nothing that I say will make
him worse than he is."

"But he may reform."

"Reform! He's over forty, and when I last saw him he looked nearly sixty. There;--you may answer
his letter; I won't."

"And about the money?"

"Why doesn't he write to Gazebee about his dirty money? Why does he trouble me? I haven't got
his money. Ask Gazebee about his money. I won't trouble myself about it." Then there was another
pause, during which the countess folded the letter, and put it in her pocket.

"How long is George going to remain here with that woman?" he asked.

"I'm sure she is very harmless," pleaded the countess.

"I always think when I see her that I'm sitting down to dinner with my own housemaid. I never
saw such a woman. How he can put up with it! But I don't suppose he cares for anything."

"It has made him very steady."

"Steady!"

"And as she will be confined before long it may be as well that she should remain here. If
Porlock doesn't marry, you know--"

"And so he means to live here altogether, does he? I'll tell you what it is,--I won't have
it. He's better able to keep a house over his own head and his wife's than I am to do it for
them, and so you may tell them. I won't have it. D'ye hear?" Then there was another short pause.
"D'ye hear?" he shouted at her.

"Yes; of course I hear. I was only thinking you wouldn't wish me to turn them out, just as
her confinement is coming on."

"I know what that means. Then they'd never go. I won't have it; and if you don't tell them
I will." In answer to this Lady de Courcy promised that she would tell them, thinking perhaps
that the earl's mode of telling might not be beneficial in that particular epoch which was
now coming in the life of Mrs George.

"Did you know," said he, breaking out on a new subject, "that a man had been here named Dale,
calling on somebody in this house?" In answer to which the countess acknowledged that she had
known it.

"Then why did you keep it from me?" And that gnashing of the teeth took place which was so
specially objectionable to Mrs George.

"It was a matter of no moment. He came to see Lady Julia De Guest."

"Yes; but he came about that man Crosbie."

"I suppose he did."

"Why have you let that girl be such a fool? You'll find he'll play her some knave's trick."

"Oh dear, no."

"And why should she want to marry such a man as that?"

"He's quite a gentleman, you know, and very much thought of in the world. It won't be at all
bad for her, poor thing. It is so very hard for a girl to get married nowadays without money."

"And so they're to take up with anybody. As far as I can see, this is a worse affair than that
of Amelia."

"Amelia has done very well, my dear."

"Oh, if you call it doing well for your girls; I don't. I call it doing uncommon badly; about
as bad as they well can do. But it's your affair. I have never meddled with them, and don't
intend to do it now."

"I really think she'll be happy, and she is devotedly attached to the young man."

"Devotedly attached to the young man!" The tone and manner in which the earl repeated these
words were such as to warrant an opinion that his lordship might have done very well on the
stage had his attention been called to that profession. "It makes me sick to hear people talk
in that way. She wants to get married, and she's a fool for her pains;--I can't help that;
only remember that I'll have no nonsense here about that other girl. If he gives me trouble
of that sort, by ----, I'll be the death of him. When is the marriage to be?"

"They talk of February."

"I won't have any tomfoolery and expense. If she chooses to marry a clerk in an office, she
shall marry him as clerks are married."

"He'll be the secretary before that, de Courcy."

"What difference does that make? Secretary, indeed! What sort of men do you suppose secretaries
are? A beggar that came from nobody knows where! I won't have any tomfoolery;--d'ye hear?"
Whereupon the countess said that she did hear, and soon afterwards managed to escape. The valet
then took his turn; and repeated, after his hour of service, that "Old Nick" in his tantrums
had been more like the Prince of Darkness than ever.

CHAPTER XXVII

"On My Honour, I Do Not Understand It"

In the meantime Lady Alexandrina endeavoured to realise to herself all the advantages and disadvantages
of her own position. She was not possessed of strong affections, nor of depth of character,
nor of high purpose; but she was no fool, nor was she devoid of principle. She had asked herself
many times whether her present life was so happy as to make her think that a permanent continuance
in it would suffice for her desires, and she had always replied to herself that she would fain
change to some other life if it were possible. She had also questioned herself as to her rank,
of which she was quite sufficiently proud, and had told herself that she could not degrade
herself in the world without a heavy pang. But she had at last taught herself to believe that
she had more to gain by becoming the wife of such a man as Crosbie than by remaining as an
unmarried daughter of her father's house. There was much in her sister Amelia's position which
she did not envy, but there was less to envy in that of her sister Rosina. The Gazebee house
in St. John's Wood Road was not so magnificent as Courcy Castle; but then it was less dull,
less embittered by torment, and was moreover her sister's own.

"Very many do marry commoners," she had said to Margaretta.

"Oh, yes, of course. It makes a difference, you know, when a man has a fortune."

Of course it did make a difference. Crosbie had no fortune, was not even so rich as Mr Gazebee,
could keep no carriage, and would have no country house. But then he was a man of fashion,
was more thought of in the world than Mr Gazebee, might probably rise in his own profession,--and
was at any rate thoroughly presentable. She would have preferred a gentleman with £5,000 a
year; but then as no gentleman with £5,000 a year came that way, would she not be happier with
Mr Crosbie than she would be with no husband at all? She was not very much in love with Mr
Crosbie, but she thought that she could live with him comfortably, and that on the whole it
would be a good thing to be married.

And she made certain resolves as to the manner in which she would do her duty by her husband.
Her sister Amelia was paramount in her own house, ruling indeed with a moderate, endurable
dominion, and ruling much to her husband's advantage. Alexandrina feared that she would not
be allowed to rule, but she could at any rate try; She would do all in her power to make him
comfortable, and would be specially careful not to irritate him by any insistence on her own
higher rank. She would be very meek in this respect; and if children should come she would
be as painstaking about them as though her own father had been merely a clergyman or a lawyer.
She thought also much about poor Lilian Dale, asking herself sundry questions, with an idea
of being high-principled as to her duty in that respect. Was she wrong in taking Mr Crosbie
away from Lilian Dale? In answer to these questions she was able to assure herself comfortably
that she was not wrong. Mr Crosbie would not, under any circumstances, marry Lilian Dale. He
had told her so more than once, and that in a solemn way. She could therefore be doing no harm
to Lilian Dale. If she entertained any inner feeling that Crosbie's fault in jilting Lilian
Dale was less than it would have been had she herself not been an earl's daughter,--that her
own rank did in some degree extenuate her lover's falseness,--she did not express it in words
even to herself.

She did not get very much sympathy from her own family. "I'm afraid he does not think much
of his religious duties. I'm told that young men of that sort seldom do," said Rosina. "I don't
say you're wrong," said Margaretta. "By no means. Indeed I think less of it now than I did
when Amelia did the same thing. I shouldn't do it myself, that's all." Her father told her
that he supposed she knew her own mind. Her mother, who endeavoured to comfort and in some
sort to congratulate her, nevertheless, harped constantly on the fact that she was marrying
a man without rank and without a fortune. Her congratulations were apologetic, and her comfortings
took the guise of consolation. "Of course you won't be rich, my dear; but I really think you'll
do very well. Mr Crosbie may be received anywhere, and you never need be ashamed of him." By
which the countess implied that her elder married daughter was occasionally called on to be
ashamed of her husband. "I wish he could keep a carriage for you, but perhaps that will come
some day." Upon the whole Alexandrina did not repent, and stoutly told her father that she
did know her own mind.

During all this time Lily Dale was as yet perfect in her happiness. That delay of a day or
two in the receipt of the expected letter from her lover had not disquieted her. She had promised
him that she would not distrust him, and she was firmly minded to keep her promises. Indeed
no idea of breaking it came to her at this time. She was disappointed when the postman would
come and bring no letter for her,--disappointed, as the husbandman when the longed-for rain
does not come to refresh the parched earth; but she was in no degree angry. "He will explain
it," she said to herself. And she assured Bell that men never recognised the hunger and thirst
after letters which women feel when away from those whom they love.

Then they heard at the Small House that the squire had gone away from Allington. During the
last few days Bernard had not been much with them, and now they heard the news, not through
their cousin, but from Hopkins. "I really can't undertake to say, Miss Bell, where the master's
gone to. It's not likely the master'd tell me where he was going to; not unless it was about
seeds, or the likes of that."

"He has gone very suddenly," said Bell.

"Well, miss, I've nothing to say to that. And why shouldn't he go sudden if he likes? I only
know he had his gig, and went to the station. If you was to bury me alive I couldn't tell you
more."

"I should like to try," said Lily as they walked away. "He is such a cross old thing. I wonder
whether Bernard has gone with my uncle." And then they thought no more about it.

On the day after that Bernard came down to the Small House, but he said nothing by way of accounting
for the squire's absence. "He is in London, I know," said Bernard.

"I hope he'll call on Mr Crosbie," said Lily. But on this subject Bernard said not a word.
He did ask Lily whether she had heard from Adolphus, in answer to which she replied, with as
indifferent a voice as she could assume, that she had not had a letter that morning.

"I shall be angry with him if he's not a good correspondent," said Mrs Dale, when she and Lily
were alone together.

"No, mamma, you mustn't be angry with him. I won't let you be angry with him. Please to remember
he's my lover and not yours."

"But I can see you when you watch for the postman."

"I won't watch for the postman any more if it makes you have bad thoughts about him. Yes, they
are bad thoughts. I won't have you think that he doesn't do everything that is right."

On the next morning the postman brought a letter, or rather a note, and Lily at once saw that
it was from Crosbie. She had contrived to intercept it near the back door, at which the postman
called, so that her mother should not watch her watchings, nor see her disappointment if none
should come. "Thank you, Jane," she said, very calmly, when the eager, kindly girl ran to her
with the little missive; and she walked off to some solitude, trying to hide her impatience.
The note had seemed so small that it amazed her; but when she opened it the contents amazed
her more. There was neither beginning nor end. There was no appellation of love, and no signature.
It contained but two lines. "I will write to you at length to-morrow. This is my first day
in London, and I have been so driven about that I cannot write." That was all, and it was scrawled
on half a sheet of note-paper. Why, at any rate, had he not called her his dearest Lily? Why
had he not assured her that he was ever her own? Such expressions, meaning so much, may be
conveyed in a glance of the pen. "Ah," she said, "if he knew how I hunger and thirst after
his love!"

She had but a moment left to her before she must join her mother and sister, and she used that
moment in remembering her promise. "I know it is all right," she said to herself. "He does
not think of these things as I do. He had to write at the last moment,--as he was leaving his
office." And then with a quiet, smiling face, she walked into the breakfast-parlour.

"What does he say, Lily?" asked Bell.

"What would you give to know?" said Lily.

"I wouldn't give twopence for the whole of it," said Bell.

"When you get anybody to write to you letters, I wonder whether you'll show them to everybody?"

"But if there's any special London news, I suppose we might hear it," said Mrs Dale.

"But suppose there's no special London news, mamma. The poor man had only been in town one
day, you know: and there never is any news at this time of the year."

"Had he seen Uncle Christopher?"

"I don't think he had; but he doesn't say. We shall get all the news from him when he comes.
He cares much more about London news than Adolphus does." And then there was no more said about
the letter.

But Lily had read her two former letters over and over again at the breakfast-table; and though
she had not read them aloud, she had repeated many words out of them, and had so annotated
upon them that her mother, who had heard her, could have almost re-written them. Now, she did
not even show the paper; and then her absence, during which she had read the letter, had hardly
exceeded a minute or two. All this Mrs Dale observed, and she knew that her daughter had been
again disappointed.

In fact that day Lily was very serious, but she did not appear to be unhappy. Early after breakfast
Bell went over to the parsonage, and Mrs Dale and her youngest daughter sat together over their
work. "Mamma," she said, "I hope you and I are not to be divided when I go to live in London."

"We shall never be divided in heart, my love."

"Ah, but that will not be enough for happiness, though perhaps enough to prevent absolute unhappiness.
I shall want to see you, touch you, and pet you as I do now." And she came and knelt on the
cushion at her mother's feet.

"You will have some one else to caress and pet,--perhaps many others."

"Do you mean to say that you are going to throw me off, mamma?"

"God forbid, my darling. It is not mothers that throw off their children. What shall I have
left when you and Bell are gone from me?"

"But we will never be gone. That's what I mean. We are to be just the same to you always, even
though we are married. I must have my right to be here as much as I have it now; and, in return,
you shall have your right to be there. His house must be a home to you,--not a cold place which
you may visit now and again, with your best clothes on. You know what I mean, when I say that
we must not be divided."

"But Lily--"

"Well, mamma?"

"I have no doubt we shall be happy together,--you and I."

"But you were going to say more than that."

"Only this,--that your house will be his house, and will be full without me. A daughter's marriage
is always a painful parting."

"Is it, mamma?"

"Not that I would have it otherwise than it is. Do not think that I would wish to keep you
at home with me. Of course you will both marry and leave me. I hope that he to whom you are
going to devote yourself may be spared to love you and protect you." Then the widow's heart
became too full, and she put away her child from her that she might hide her face.

"Mamma, mamma, I wish I was not going from you."

"No, Lily; do not say that. I should not be contented with life if I did not see both my girls
married. I think that it is the only lot which can give to a woman perfect content and satisfaction.
I would have you both married. I should be the most selfish being alive if I wished otherwise."

"Bell will settle herself near you, and then you will see more of her and love her better than
you do me."

"I shall not love her better."

"I wish she would marry some London man, and then you would come with us, and be near to us.
Do you know, mamma, I sometimes think you don't like this place here."

"Your uncle has been very kind to give it to us."

"I know he has; and we have been very happy here. But if Bell should leave you--"

