DEAR MRS. MORTON,--Just a line to thank you very sincerely for my delightful visit. It was
like old times to see you "all gathered together in hospitable Dockington and to find that
the War, terrible as it is, has not altogether abolished pleasant human intercourse in England,
in spite of what the Dean said. But then Deans are privileged persons.

I am sorry to say, by the way, that in the hurry of departure this morning I took away the
wrong umbrella and left my own. I am sending back the changeling with all proper apologies.
Would you mind sending me mine? It has a crook handle (cane) and a plain silver band with my
initials engraved on it. Please give my love to Harry and the children.

  Yours always sincerely,
  ARTHUR VIVIAN.

No. II.

From the Dean of Marchester to Mrs. Morton.

DEAR MRS. MORTON,--I desire to thank you for three most agreeable days spent in congenial company.
You have indeed mastered the secret of making your guests feel at home, and Dockington even
in war-time is still Dockington. Pray give my warm regards to Mr. Morton and remember me suitably
to the dear children. I wish they wouldn't keep on growing up as they do; childhood is so delightful.

I find to my great regret that by some inexplicable mistake I took away with me an umbrella
that is not mine. I am sending it back to you, and shall be deeply beholden to you if you will
pack up and send to me the one I left. It is an old one, recognisable by its cane handle (crook)
and an indiarubber ring round the shaft. Pray accept my apologies for the trouble I am giving you.

  Yours very sincerely,
  CHARLES MELDEW.

No. III.

From Brigadier-General Barton to his Sister, Mrs. Morton.

DEAR MARY,--You gave me a capital time. There's a slight difference between Dockington and
the trenches. I'm not as a rule a great performer with clergymen, but I liked your Dean. By
the way, when I dashed off your man put somebody else's umbrella in with me, instead of my
own, which is a natty specimen. The one I've got is an old gamp with a stout indiarubber ring
to it. I haven't time to send it back. Every moment is taken up, as I cross to France to-night.
Besides, how can you pack such a thing as an umbrella? It's much too long. Keep mine till we
meet again. Best love to Harry and the kids.

  Ever yours,
  TOM.

No. IV.

From Arthur Vivian to Mrs. Morton.

DEAR MRS. MORTON,--I wired you this morning asking you to do nothing about my umbrella. The
fact is I have found it at my rooms, and I am forced to the conclusion that I never took it
with me to Dockington at all. I am awfully sorry to have given you all this trouble. It shall
be a lesson to me never to take my umbrella anywhere, or rather never to think I've taken it,
when, as a matter of fact, I haven't.

  Yours always sincerely,
  ARTHUR VIVIAN.

No. V.

Telegram from Mrs. Morton to Arthur Vivian.

 Too late. Sent off somebody's umbrella to you yesterday.
Please return it to me.

No. VI.

From Mrs. Morton to her Sister, Lady Compton.

 ... We had a few friends at Dockington last week, not a real party, but
just a few old shoes--Tom, Arthur Vivian and the Dean of Marchester and
Mrs. Dean. Since they went away I've had the most awful time with their
umbrellas. They all took away with them the wrong ones, and then wrote to
me to send them their right ones. Arthur Vivian never brought one, and
whose he took away I can't say. In fact I've been exposed to an avalanche
of returning umbrellas, and Parkins has spent all his time in doing up the
absurd things and posting them. He has just celebrated his seventieth
birthday, and these umbrellas have ruined what's left of his temper.
Umbrellas still keep pouring in, and nobody ever seems by any chance to get
the right one. It's the most discouraging thing I've ever been involved in.
As far as I can make out the Dean's umbrella is now in the trenches with
Tom. If ever I have a party at Dockington again I shall write, "No
umbrellas by request," on the invitations.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INN O' THE SWORD.

A SONG OF YOUTH AND WAR.

  Roving along the King's highway
    I met wi' a Romany black.
  "Good day," says I; says he, "Good day,
    And what may you have in your pack?"
  "Why, a shirt," says I, "and a song or two
    To make the road go faster."
  He laughed: "Ye'll find or the day be through
    There's more nor that, young master.
      Oh, roving's good and youth is sweet
        And love is its own reward;
      But there's that shall stay your careless feet
        When ye come to the Sign o' the Sword."

  "Riddle me, riddlemaree," quoth I,
    "Is a game that's ill to win,
  And the day is o'er fair such tasks to try"--
    Said he, "Ye shall know at the inn."
  With that he suited his path to mine
    And we   travelled merrily,
  Till I was ware of the promised sign
    And the door of an hostelry.
      And the Romany sang, "To the very life
        Ye shall pay for bed and board;
      Will ye turn aside to the House of Strife?
        Will ye lodge at the Inn o' the Sword?"

  Then I looked at the inn 'twixt joy and fear,
    And the Romany looked at me.
  Said I, "We ha' come to a parting here
    And I know not who you be."
  But he only laughed as I smote on the door:
    "Go, take ye the fighting chance;
  Mayhap I once was a troubadour
    In the knightly days of France.
      Oh, the feast is set for those who dare
        And the reddest o' wine outpoured;
      And some sleep sound after peril and care
        At the Hostelry of the Sword."

       *       *       *       *       *

For our "National Lent"--the War Loan.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

When the eminent in other branches of art take to literature, criticism must naturally be tempered
with respect. This is much how I feel after reading Sir WILLIAM RICHMOND'S The Silver Chain
(PALMER AND HAYWARD). Probably, however, I should have enjoyed it more had not the publishers
indulged in a wrapper-paragraph of such unbounded eulogy. If anybody is to call this novel
"a work of great artistic achievement," and praise its "philosophy, psychology, delightful
sense of humour, subtle analysis" and all the rest, I should prefer it to be someone less interested
in the wares thus pushed. For my part I should be content to call The Silver Chain by no means
an uninteresting story, the work of a distinguished man, obviously an amateur in the craft
of letters, who nevertheless has pleased himself (and will give pleasure to others) by working
into it many pen-pictures of scenes in Egypt and Rome and Sicily, full of the glowing colour
that we should expect from their artist-author. But the tale itself, the unrewarded love of
the middle-aged "Philosopher" for the not specially attractive heroine Mary, and the subordinate
very Byronic romance of Herbert and Annunziata, quite frankly recalls those early manuscripts
that most novelists must have burnt before they were quit of boyhood, or preserved to smile
over. Still, in these winter days, when only Prime Ministers go to Rome (and then not to bask)
and Luxor is equidistant with the moon, you may well find respite in a book so full of sunshine
and memories of happy places; but I am bound to repeat my warning that your fellow-travellers
will perhaps not be quite such stimulating society as the publishers would have you expect.

       *       *       *       *       *

