Sounder. In telegraphy an instrument consisting of an electromagnet with armature attached
to an oscillating bar, the range of whose movements is restricted by adjusting screws. The
armature is drawn away from the magnet by a spring. When a current is sent through the magnet
the armature is drawn towards the poles and produces a sound as the bar strikes a striking
piece or second adjusting screw. When the current ceases the bar and armature are drawn back,
striking the first mentioned screw with a distinct sound, the back stroke.

The sounder is used to receive Morse and analogous character messages. The forward strokes
correspond to the beginnings of the dots or dashes of the code, the back strokes to beginnings
of the intervals. The distinction between dots and dashes is made by observing the interval
between forward and back stroke.

Various devices are used to increase the sound. Sometimes a resonance box is used on which
the sounder is mounted.

In practice sounders are generally placed on local circuits and are actuated by relays.

489   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Sound Reading. The art or method of receiving telegraph messages by ear. It is now universally
used by all expert Morse operators. It can only be applied to telegraph systems producing audible
sounds; in some cases, as in needle telegraphy, it may be quite inapplicable.

Space, Clearance. The space between faces of the pole pieces and the surface of the armature
in a dynamo. It is really the air gap, but in calculating dynamo dimensions the thickness of
the insulated copper wire windings of the commutator are counted in as part of the air gap,
because copper is almost the same as air in impermeability. Clearance space is a mechanical
factor; the air gap is an electric or magnetic factor.

Synonym--Inter-air Space.

Space, Crookes' Dark. In an exhausted tube, through which an electric discharge is caused to
pass, the space surrounding the negative electrode of the tube. This space is free from any
luminous effect, and by contrast with the light of the discharge appears dark. The vacuum may
be made so high that the dark space fills the whole space between the electrodes. It is less
for a less vacuum and varies for other factors, such as the temperature of the negative electrode
from which it originates, the kind of residual gas present, and the quality of the spark.

Space, Faraday's Dark. The space in an exhausted tube between the luminous glows about the
two electrodes.

Space, Interferric. A term for the air-gap in a magnetic circuit. It is etymologically more
correct than air-gap, for the latter is often two-thirds or more filled with the insulating
material and copper wire of the armature windings. (See Space, Clearance.)

Spark Arrester. A screen of wire netting fitting around the carbons of an arc lamp above the
globe to prevent the escape of sparks from the carbons.

Spark Coil. A coil for producing a spark from a source of comparatively low electro-motive
force. It consists of insulated wire wound round a core of soft iron, best a bundle of short
pieces of wire. Such a coil may be eight inches long and three inches thick, and made of No.
18-20 copper wire, with a core one inch in diameter. On connecting a battery therewith and
opening or closing the circuit, a spark is produced by self-induction, q. v. It is used for
lighting gas.

490   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Spark, Duration of Electric.
Wheatstone determined the duration of the spark given by a Leyden jar as
1/24000 second. Feddersen by interposing a tube of water 9 millimeters
(.36 inch) long in its path found that it lasted 14/10000 second, and
with one 180 millimeters (7.2 inches) long, 188/10000 second. Lucas and
Cazin for a 5 millimeter (.2 inch) spark, with different numbers of
Leyden jars, found the following:
Number of jars.   Duration of Spark.
     2           .000026 second
     4           .000041 "
     6           .000045 "
     8           .000047 "

The duration increases with the striking distance, and is independent of the diameter of the
balls between which it is produced.

Spark Gap. The space left between the ends of an electric resonator (see Resonator, Electric)
across which the spark springs. Its size may be adjustable by a screw, something like the arrangement
of screw calipers.

Sparking. In dynamo-electric machines, the production of sparks at the commutator between the
brushes and commutator sections. The sparks are often true voltaic arcs, and in all cases are
injurious if in any quantity, wearing out the commutator and brushes.

Sparking, Line or Points of Least. In a dynamo or electric motor the diameter of the commutator
determining, or the points on the commutator marking the position of the brushes where the
sparking is a minimum. Field magnets powerful in proportion to the armature are a preventative
cause. The direction of the line fixes the angle of lead to be given to the brushes.

Sparking, Resistance to. The resistance to disruptive discharge through its substance offered
by a dielectric or insulator. It does not depend on its insulating qualities, but on its rigidity
and strength.

Spark, Length of. The length of the spark accompanying the disruptive discharge is counted
as the distance from one electrode to the other in a straight line. It is longer for an increased
potential difference between the two electrodes. If the gas or air between the electrodes is
exhausted the length increases, until the vacuum becomes too high, when the length begins to
decrease, and for a perfect vacuum no spark however small can be produced. The shape of the
conductor which is discharged, the material of the electrodes, and the direction of the current
are all factors affecting the length of spark producible.

491   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Spark Tube. A tube used as a gauge or test to determine when the exhaustion of the vacuum chamber
or bulb of an incandescent lamp is sufficiently high.

The interior of the tube is connected with the interior of the bulb or chamber of the lamps
in process of exhaustion, and hence shares their degree of exhaustion. From time to time connections
with an induction coil are made. When the exhaustion is carried far enough no discharge will
take place through the vacuum. As long as the tube acts like a Geissler tube the exhaustion
is not considered perfect.

Specific Heat of Electricity. The heat absorbed or given out by a fluid in passing from one
temperature to another depends on its specific heat. In the Peltier and the Thomson effects.
q. v., the electric current acts as the producer of a change of temperature, either an increase
or decrease as the case may be. This suggests an absorption of and giving out of heat which
amount of heat corresponding to a current of known amount is determinable, and may be referred
to any unit of quantity such as the coulomb. This or some equivalent definite quantity of heat
it has been proposed (Sir William Thomson) to term the Specific Heat of Electricity.

Spent Acid. Acid which has become exhausted. In a battery the acid becomes spent from combination
with zinc. It also loses its depolarizing power, if it is a chromic acid solution or of that
type, and then may be said to be spent.

Spent Liquor. The liquor of a plating bath which has become exhausted from use, the metal it
contained being all or partly deposited.

Sphygmograph, Electric. An electric apparatus for recording the beat of the pulse, both as
regards its rate and strength.

Sphygmophone. An apparatus for examination of the pulse by the microphone and telephone.

Spiders. Core-discs of a dynamo or motor armature are sometimes perforated with a large central
aperture, are fastened together with insulated bolts, and the whole mass is secured to the
shaft by three- or four-armed spiders. These are like rimless wheels, the ends of their arms
being secured to the hollow cylinder constituting the armature core, and a central aperture
in their hub receiving the shaft.

492   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Spiral. This term is sometimes used instead of coil, as the primary spiral or secondary spiral
of an induction coil or transformer.

Spiral Winding. The winding used on ring armatures. This may diagrammatically be represented
by a spiral carried around the ring shaped core. With two field poles it gives two collecting
points, positive and negative, with four field poles it gives four collecting points, alternately
positive and negative.

Splice Box. A box in which the splices in underground cables and electric lines are contained.
The splicing is generally done in the boxes with the cables in place. They may be two-way for
straight lines, or be four-way for two side or lateral connections.

Spluttering. A term applied to a sound sometimes produced in a voltaic arc, perhaps caused
by impure or insufficiently baked electrodes. (Elihu Thomson.)

Spring Control. Control of or giving the restitutive force to the needle of a galvanometer,
core of a solenoid ammeter or moving part of any similar instrument by a spring. As an example
see Ammeter, Ayrton's.

Fig. 307. SPRING JACKS.

Spring Jack. An arrangement for effecting, at one insertion of a species of plug, the opening
or breaking of a circuit and for the simultaneous connection to the terminals formed by the
breaking of two terminals of another system or loop. Thus let a line include in its circuit
two springs pressing against each other, thereby completing the circuit. If a plug or wedge
of insulating material were inserted between the springs so as to press them apart it would
break the circuit and the whole would constitute a spring jack cut-out. If each side of the
plug had a strip of brass or copper attached to it, and if the ends of another circuit were
connected to these strips, then the insertion of the plug would throw the new line into the
circuit of the other line.

493   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Spring Jack Cut-out. A cut-out, of the general construction of a spring jack, q. v., except
that a simple insulating plug or wedge is used in place of the metal-faced wedge with its connections
of the regular spring jack. The insertion of an insulating wedge opens the circuit, which on
its removal is closed. The regular spring jack wedge will operate in the same way, if its connections
are kept open.

Spurious Voltage. The voltage in excess of that developed by a secondary battery which is required
in the charging process. It is about .25 volt.

Square Wire. Wire whose cross-section is a square. It has been used of iron for building up
the cores of armatures for dynamos or motors, for which it is peculiarly suitable, and also
of copper as a winding for armatures.

Staggering. adj. When the brushes of a dynamo are set, one a little in advance of the other
on the surface of the commutator, they are said to be set staggering. It is used to get over
a break in the armature circuit.

State, Electrotonic. A term expressing an abandoned theory. Faraday at one time proposed the
theory that a wire had to be in the electrotonic state to produce electro-motive force by movement
through an electric field. Any such idea was ultimately abandoned by Faraday.

Static Breeze. The electric breeze obtained by the silent discharge of high tension electricity.

Static Electricity. Electricity at rest or not in the current form ordinarily speaking. The
term is not very definite and at any rate only expresses a difference in degree, not in kind.
The recognition of the difference in degree has now to a great extent also disappeared.

Station, Central. The building or place in which are placed electrical apparatus, steam engines
and plant supplying a district with electric energy.

Station, Distant. The place at the further end of a telegraph line, as referred to the home
station.

Station, Home. The end of a telegraph line where the operators using the expression are working.

494   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Station, Transforming. In alternating current distribution, a building or place where a number
of transformers are worked, so that low potential or secondary circuits are distributed therefrom.

Steel. A compound of iron with carbon. The carbon may range from a few hundredths of one per
cent. up to two per cent. For magnets, tool steel drawn to a straw color or a little lower
is good. All shaping and filing should be done before magnetization.

Steeling. The deposition of iron on copper plates by electrolysis. In electrotyping a thin
deposit of iron is thus given the relief plates before printing from them. The deposit is very
hard and exceedingly thin, so that it does not interfere with the perfection of the impression
in the printing process. As the iron becomes worn it can be dissolved off with hydrochloric
acid, which does not dissolve the copper, and a new deposit can be given it. Thus the plate
may last for an indefinite number of impressions.

The iron bath may be prepared by immersing in a solution of ammonium chloride, two plates of
iron, connected as anode and kathode in a circuit. One plate dissolves while hydrogen is given
off from the other. The solution thus produced is used for a bath.

The hardness of the deposit, which is really pure iron, gives the name of "steeling."

Synonym--Acierage.

St. Elmo's Fire. Luminous static discharge effects sometimes seen on objects elevated in the
air. They are especially noticed on ships' masts. The sailors term them corpusants (holy bodies).
They resemble tongues or globes of fire.

Step-by-step Telegraphy. A system of telegraphy in which in the receiving instrument a hand
is made to move step-by-step, with an escape movement around a dial. For each step there is
a letter and the hand is made to stop at one or the other letter until the message is spelled
out. (See Dial Telegraph.)

Step-down. adj. A qualification applied to a converter or transformer in the alternating current
distribution, indicating that it lowers potential difference and increases current from the
secondary.

Step-up. adj. The reverse of step-down; a qualification of a transformer or converter indicating
that it raises the potential and decreases the current in the secondary.

Sticking. The adherence, after the current is cut off, of the armature to the poles of a magnet.
In telegraphy it is a cause of annoyance and obstructs the working. It may, in telegraphy,
be due to too weak a spring for drawing back the armature, or to imperfect breaking of the
contact by the despatcher's key or by the receiver's relay.

495   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Stopping Off. In electroplating the prevention of deposition of the plating metal on any desired
portions of the object. It is effected by varnishing the places where no coating is desired.
An article can be plated with silver, stopped off in any desired design, and the unvarnished
portions may then be plated with gold in another bath. Various effects can be produced by such
means.

Storage Capacity. A term for the ampere-hours of electricity, which can be taken in current
form from a storage battery.

Storage of Electricity. Properly speaking electricity can only be stored statically or in static
condensers, such as Leyden jars. The term has been popularly applied to the charging of secondary
or storage batteries, in which there is really no such thing as a storage of electricity, but
only a decomposition and opposite combination brought about, which leave the battery in a condition
to give a current.

Storms, Electric. Wide-spread magnetic and electric disturbances, involving the disturbance
of the magnetic elements and other similar phenomena. (See Magnetic Storms.)

Strain. The condition of a body when subjected to a stress. Various consequences may ensue
from strain in the way of disturbance of electric and other qualities of the body strained.

Stratification Tube. A Geissler tube, q. v., for showing the stratification of the electric
discharge through a high vacuum.

The stratifications are greatly intensified by the presence of a little vapor of turpentine,
alcohol, bisulphide of carbon and other substances.

Stray Field. In a dynamo or motor the portion of the field whose lines of force are not cut
by the armature windings.

Stray Power. The proportion of the energy wasted in driving a dynamo, lost through friction
and other hurtful resistances.

Streamlets, Current. A conception bearing the same relation to an electric current that lines
of force do to a field of force; elementary currents. If evenly distributed the current is
of uniform density; if unevenly distributed, as in alternating currents, the current density
varies in different parts of the cross section of the conductor. This evenness or unevenness
may be referred to the number of streamlets per unit of area of cross-section.

Stress. Force exercised upon a solid tending to distort it, or to produce a strain.

496   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Stress, Dielectric. The condition of a dielectric when maintaining a charge; its two extremities
are in opposite states of polarity, or are under permanent potential difference. As the two
opposite polarities tend to unite a condition of stress is implied in the medium which separates
them.

Stress, Electro-magnetic. The stress produced upon transparent substances in an electro-magnetic
field of force. It is shown in the modified optical properties of glass and similar substances
placed between the poles of a strong electro-magnet.

Stress, Electrostatic. The stress produced upon substances in an electrostatic field of force;
the exact analogue of electro-magnetic stress, and affecting transparent substances in the
same general way.

Striae, Electric. In Geissler tubes the light produced by the electric discharge is filled
with striae, bright bands alternating with dark spaces; these may be termed electric striae.

Striking Distance. The distance that separates two conductors charged with electricity of different
potential, when a spark starts between them.

Striking Solution. In silver-plating a bath composed of a weak solution of silver cyanide-with
a large proportion of free potassium cyanide. It is used with a strong current and a large
silver anode. This gives an instantaneous deposition of metallic silver over the surface of
the article which goes to insure a perfect coating in the silver bath proper. After a few seconds
in the striking solution, the article is at once removed to the plating bath.

Stripping. The removal of electroplating from an object. It may be effected in several ways.
An object whose plating is to be removed is placed in a plating bath of the solution of the
metal with which it is coated. It is connected as the anode to the positive plate of the battery
or corresponding terminal of the generator. A kathode connected to the other terminal being
placed in the bath, the coating is dissolved by electrolytic action. Sometimes simple treatment
with acid is employed. Different stripping baths are described under the heads of the different
metals.

S. U. Symbol or abbreviation for Siemens' Unit of Resistance. (See Resistance, Siemens' Unit of.)

Sub-branch. A branch or lead of wire taken from a branch lead: a term used in electric distribution.

Sub-main. In electric distribution a conductor connected directly to a main; a branch.

497   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Subway, Electric. A subterranean system of conduits for electric cables. As generally constructed
in this country it includes manholes, q. v., at the street corners connected by ducts or pipes.
These pipes are large enough to hold a cable. To introduce a cable into a duct, which latter
may be two or three inches in diameter, and from two hundred to six or seven hundred feet long,
a wire or rope is first passed through the duct. This is done by a set of short wooden rods
with screws at the end so as to be screwed together. Each rod must be shorter than the diameter
of the manhole. A rod is thrust in, another is screwed to it and thrust in, and thus a set
of rods is made to extend as far as desired. In pulling them out a rope is attached and drawn
through. This rope or a larger one is used in drawing the cable through the duct. A windlass
is employed to draw the rope with cable attached through the ducts.

Sulphating. In storage battery cells, the formation of a hard white basic lead sulphate, Pb2
S05. Its formation is due to over-exhaustion of the cells. As long as the voltage is not allowed
to fall below 1.90 volts per cell little of it forms. As it accumulates it is apt to drop off
the plate and fall to the bottom, thus weakening the plate possibly, and depriving it of active
material, and clogging up the cell. If it carries a film of metallic lead with it, there is
danger of short circuiting the cell.

The presence of some sodium sulphate in the solution is said to tend to prevent sulphating,
or to diminish it.

Sulphur Dioxide.
A compound gas, S O2; composed of
  Sulphur,            32
  Oxygen,             32
  Molecular weight,   64
  Specific gravity,    2.21.

Synonyms--Sulphurous Acid--Sulphurous Acid Gas.

Sunstroke, Electric. Exposure to the arc light sometimes produces the effects observed in cases
of sunstroke. It is said that, in the case of workmen at electric furnaces, these effects are
very noticeable. (See Prostration, Electric.)

Supersaturated. adj. A liquid is supersaturated when it has dissolved a substance at a temperature
favorable to its solubility and its temperature has been allowed to change, the liquid being
kept free from agitation or access of air, provided crystallization or precipitation has not
taken place. It expresses the state of a liquid when it holds in solution more than the normal
quantity of any substance soluble in it.

Surface. A galvanic battery is arranged in surface when all the positive plates are connected
together and all the negative plates are also connected. This makes it equivalent to one large
cell, the surface of whose plates would be equal to the aggregate surface of the plates of
the battery. It is also used as an adjective, as "a surface arrangement of battery."

498   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Surface Density. The relative quantity of an electric charge upon a surface.

Surface, Equipotential. A surface over all of which the potential is the same. In a general
sense equipotential surfaces are given by planes or surfaces which cut lines of force at right
angles thereto, or which are normal to lines of force. The conception applies to electrostatic
and electro-magnetic fields of force, and for current conductors the planes normal to the direction
of the current are equipotential surfaces.

The contour of an equipotential surface of a field of force which is drawn or represented by
delineations of its lines of force can be obtained by drawing a line normal thereto. This line
will ordinarily be more or less curved, and will be a locus of identical potentials.

An electric equipotential surface may be described as electro-static, electro- magnetic, or
magnetic; or may be an equipotential surface of a current conductor. Besides these there are
mechanical and physical equipotential surfaces, such as those of gravitation.

Surface Leakage. Leakage of current from one part of an insulating material to another by the
film of moisture or dirt on the surface.

Suspension. This term is applied to methods of supporting galvanometer needles, balance beams,
magnetic compass needles and similar objects which must be free to rotate. (See Suspension,
Bifilar--Fibre and Spring Suspension--Fibre Suspension--Knife Edge Suspension--Pivot Suspension--Suspension,
Torsion.)

308. DIAGRAM OF BIFILAR SUSPENSION.

Suspension, Bifilar. Suspension by two vertical parallel fibres, as of a galvanometer needle.
The restitution force is gravity, the torsion being comparatively slight and negligible. Leaving
torsion out of account the restitution force is (a) proportional to the distance between the
threads;. (b) inversely proportional to their length; (c) proportional to weight of the needle
or other object suspended; (d) proportional to the angle of displacement.

499   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Assume two masses A and B at the end of a weightless rod, suspended by the parallel cords a
A, b B. Let the rod be rotated through an angle theta. Consider the cord a A. Its lower end
is swung through the angle theta, as referred to the center O; the cord is deflected from the
vertical by an angle psi, such that a A tang(psi)= O A 2 sin (theta/2). The component of gravitation
tending to restore A to A, acting towards A is equal to m g tan(psi). Its moment around O is
equal to (m g tan(psi)) * (O A cos(theta/2). The whole moment of the couple is 2 m g  tan(psi).
0 A. cos(theta/2) = 2 m g (O A2/ a A) 2 sin(theta/2). Cos(theta/2) = 2mgl(OA2/aA) sin(theta).
The moment of the restoring force is thus proportional to the sine of the angle of deflection,
and the oscillations of such a system are approximately simple harmonic. (Daniell.)

If the twisting is carried so far as to cause the threads to cross and come in contact with
each other the suspension ceases to be a bifilar suspension, but assumes the nature of a torsional
suspension.

Swaging, Electric. Mechanical swaging in which the objects to be swaged are heated by an electric
current as in electric welding.

S. W. G. Abbreviation for Standard Wire Gauge.

Fig. 309. SIMPLE SWITCH.

Switch. A device for opening and closing an electric circuit.

A simple type is the ordinary telegrapher's switch. A bar of metal is mounted horizontally
by a pivot at one end, so as to be free to rotate through an arc of a circle. In one position
its free end rests upon a stud of metal. One terminal of a circuit is attached to its journal,
the other to the stud. Resting on the stud it closes the circuit, in other positions it opens
the circuit.

500   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Switch, Automatic. A switch opened and closed by the electric current. It is used for lighting
distant incandescent lamps. It includes one or two electro-magnets operated by two push buttons.
In the usual arrangement one button is black and the other white, for extinguishing and lighting
respectively. When the white button is pushed it causes a current to pass through one of the
electro-magnets. This attracts its armature, thereby making a contact and throwing the lamps
into the lighting circuit. Then they remain lighted until the black button is pressed. This
excites the other magnet, which attracts its armature, breaks the contact and extinguishes
the lights.

The object of the automatic switch is to enable distant lamps to be lighted without the necessity
of carrying the electric leads or wires to the place whence the lighting is to be done. A very
small wire will carry enough current to operate the magnets, and open circuit batteries, such
as Leclanché batteries, may be used as the source of current for the switch, but generally
the lighting current is used for the purpose.

A single magnet may do the work. When the lighting button is pressed the magnet is excited,
attracts its armature and holds it attracted, until by pressing the black button the current
is turned off from it. In this case the lighting current is used to excite the magnet.

Switch Board. A board or tablet to which wires are led connecting with cross bars or other
switching devices, so as to enable connections among themselves or with other circuits to be made.

Switch, Circuit Changing. A switch whose arm in its swing breaks one contact and swinging over
makes another. It is employed to change the connections of circuits from one dynamo to another.

Synonyms--Changing Switch--Changing Over Switch.

Switch, Double Break. A form of switch in which double contact pieces are provided to give
a better contact. One form consists of a hinged bar whose end swings down between two pairs
of springs. Both pairs are connected to one terminal, and the bar to the other terminal of
a circuit.

Switch, Double Pole. A heavy switch for central station work, that connects and disconnects
two leads simultaneously.

Switch, Feeder. A heavy switch, often of double contact type, for connecting and disconnecting
feeders from bus bars in central stations.

501   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Switch, Knife. A switch whose movable arm is a narrow, deep bar of copper or brass, and which
in making contact is forced in edgeways between two springs connected to one terminal. The
bar is connected to the other terminal.

Synonyms--Knife Break Switch--Knife Edge Switch.

Switch, Multiple. A switch which in the swing of its bar connects one by one with a number
of contacts so that ultimately the end of its bar is in contact with all at once. It is used
to throw lights in and out in succession, and it can, if the multiple contacts connect with
resistances, make them operate as a rheostat.

Switch, Pole Changing. A switch for changing the direction of the current in a circuit.

Switch, Reversing. A switch, often of the plug type (see Plug Switch) for changing the direction
of current passing through a galvanometer.

Switch, Snap. A switch constructed to give a quick, sharp break. It has a spiral spring interposed
between the handle and arm. As the handle is drawn back to open it the spring is first extended,
the bar being held by the friction of the contacts, until the spring suddenly jerks it up,
thus breaking the contact.

Switch, Storage Battery Changing. A switch for changing storage battery connections from series
to multiple and back again.

Switch, Three Way. A switch, so constructed that by turning its handle connection can be made
from one lead to either of two other leads, and also so that connection can be completely cut off.

Sympathetic Vibration. The establishment of periodic movement in one body by impulses of the
same period communicated to it from another body in motion. Thus if two tuning forks are of
the same pitch and one is sounded the other will begin to sound by sympathy, the sound waves
communicating the necessary periodic impulses to it.

Sympathetic vibrations are utilized in harmonic telegraphy. (See Harmonic Receiver--Telegraph,
Harmonic.)

T. Symbol of time.

Tailings. (a) In high speed transmission of telegraph signals by the automatic system, the
definiteness of the signal marks is sometimes interfered with by retardation. Wrong marks are
thus produced called tailings.

(b) The prolongation of the current at the distant receiving station of a telegraph line due
to the discharge of the line and to self-induction.

Synonyms--Tailing--Tailing Current.

502   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Tamidine. Reduced nitro-cellulose. Nitro-cellulose is dissolved in a proper solvent and is
obtained by evaporation as a translucent solid mass. By ammonium sulphide or other reagent
it is reduced so as to be virtually cellulose. It is cut into shape for filaments of incandescent
lamps, which shapes are carbonized and flashed.

Tangent Law. In a galvanometer the tangents of the angles of deflection of the needle are proportional
to the deflecting force--

I.  When the controlling force is unaltered in absolute magnitude and direction by the motion
of the needle.

II. When the deflecting force acts at right angles always to the controlling force.

These conditions are usually secured by having the actuating coil through which the current
passes flat and of large diameter compared to the length of the needle; by using the uniform
field of the earth as the control; by having a short needle; by placing the coil with its plane
in the magnetic meridian.

For best proportions of tangent galvanometer coils see Bobbins.

Fig. 310. GRAPHIC CONSTRUCTION OF TANGENT SCALE.

Tangent Scale. An arc of a circle in which the number of graduations in any arc starting from
zero are proportional to the tangent of the angle subtended by such arc. The system is for
use with tangent galvanometers. Thus if for 45° a value of 100 is taken and marked on the scale
then for the arc 26° 33' + a value of 50 should be marked on the scale because such are the
relative values of the tangents.

Thus the scale instead of being divided into degrees is divided into arcs of varying length,
growing shorter as they are more distant from the zero point, of such length that the first
division being subtended by a tangent of length 1, the first and second divisions added or
taken together as one arc are subtended by a tangent of length 2, and so on.

In the cut a simple method of graphically laying out a tangent scale is shown. In it C is the
centre of the arc, and H the radius running to the zero of the instrument. From C a circle
is described and on H a vertical line tangent to the arc is erected. Taking any part of the
tangent, as the length shown ending at D, it is divided into any number of equal parts. Radii
of the circle are now drawn whose prolongations pass through the divisions on the tangent.
These radii, where they intersect the arc of the circle, determine equal divisions of the tangent
scale, which, as is evident from the construction, are unequal angular divisions of the arc.

503   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Tanning, Electric. The tanning of hides in the manufacture of leather by the aid of electrolysis.
A current of electricity is maintained through the tanning vats in which regular tanning liquor
is contained. Very extraordinary claims are made for the saving of time in the tanning process.
What is ordinarily a process of several months, and sometimes of a year, is said to be reduced
to one occupying a few days only. The action of electrolysis is the one relied on to explain
the results.

Tapper. The key used in single needle telegraph transmitters. It comprises two flat springs
L, E, each with a handle, normally pressed upward against one contact bar Z, and when pressed
down by the operator making contact against a lower bar C when messages are to be transmitted.
A double tapper, such as shown, is used for each instrument.

Synonyms--Double Tapper Key--Pedal Key.

Fig. 311. TAPPER.

Target, Electric. A target registering or indicating electrically upon an annunciator the point
of impact of each bullet.

Taste, Galvanic. The effect produced upon the gustatory nerves by the passage of an electric
current, or by the maintenance of potential difference between two portions of the tongue.
It is very simply produced by placing a silver coin above, and a piece of zinc below the tongue,
or the reverse, and touching their edges. A sour, peculiar taste is at once perceived. It cannot
be due to any measurable quantity of current or of electrolytic decomposition, because the
couple can do little more than establish a potential difference. With a strong current the
taste becomes too strong for comfort, and if on a telegraph line the extra currents produced
by the signaling make the operation of tasting the current a very unpleasant one. It is said
that messages have been received in this way, the receiver placing one terminal of the line
on his tongue, and a terminal attached to a grounded wire below it, and then receiving the
Morse characters by taste.

504   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Teazer. Originally a fine wire coil wound on the field magnets of a dynamo in shunt with the
regular winding to maintain the magnetism. It was originally used in electroplating machines
to prevent inversion of the magnetism, but has since developed into a component part of the
winding of the compound dynamo. (See Dynamo, Compound.)

Tee, Lead. A lead pipe of T shape used for connecting branches to electric cables. The tee
is soldered by wiped joints to the lead sheathings of the cable and branches after the wires
have been connected, and the junctions coated with insulating tape or cement, or both.

It is sometimes made in two halves, and is known as a split tee.

Tel-autograph. A telegraph for reproducing the hand-writing of the sender at the receiving
end of the line. To save time a special spelling is sometimes used.

Teleautograph. The special spelling used with the Tel-Autograph telegraph.

Tele-barometer, Electric. A barometer with electric attachment for indicating or recording
at a distance the barometric readings.

Telegraph, ABC. This term is applied to alphabet telegraphs indicating the message by the movements
of a pointer on a dial marked with the characters to be sent. In England the Wheatstone ABC
system is much employed.

Telegraph, Automatic. A telegraph system based on the operation of the transmitting instrument
by a perforated strip of paper drawn through it. The perforations made by an apparatus termed
a perforator, are so arranged as to give telegraphic characters of the Morse or International
Code in the transmitting instrument. (See Perforator.) Bain in the year 1846 was the originator
of the system. He punched a fillet of paper with dots and dashes, and drew it between two terminals
of the line, thus sending over the line a corresponding series of short and long currents which
were received by his chemical receiver. (See Chemical Receiver.) The method was not successful.
Its modern development, the Wheatstone Automatic Telegraph, is highly so. The perforated paper
by its perforations controls the reciprocating movement of two rods, which pass through each
hole in two rows, corresponding to the two rods respectively as the holes come opposite to
the ends of the rods. The rods are kept constantly moving up and down. If unperforated paper
is above them their upward motion is limited. This gives three positions for the rods, (a)
both down, (b) one up and the other down, (c) both up. These positions of the rods work a pole
changing key by which dots, spaces, and dashes are transmitted to the receiving instrument,
which is an exceedingly delicate ink-printer. The latter can have its speed adjusted to receive
from 200 to 450 words per minute.

505   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Dial. A telegraph in which as receiver a dial instrument is used. A pointer or index
hand moves around a dial. The dial is marked with letters of the alphabet. The movements of
the pointer are controlled by the transmitting operator at a distant station. He by the same
actions moves a pointer on a duplicate instrument before him and the two are synchronized to
give identical indications. Thus a message is spelled out letter by letter on both dials simultaneously.
The motions of the index are generally produced by what is virtually a recoil escapement. The
scape wheel is carried by the axle of the index, and a pallet or anchor is vibrated by an electro-magnet
whose armature is attached to the stem of the pallet. As the pallet is vibrated it turns the
wheel and index one tooth for each single movement. There are as many teeth in the wheel as
there are characters on the dial. The two instruments being in duplicate and synchronized,
the pallets move exactly in unison, so that identical readings of the dials are given. The
pallets may be moved by any kind of make and break mechanism, such as an ordinary telegraph
key. The index moves by steps or jerks, so that the system is sometimes called step-by-step
telegraphy.

Fig. 312. DIAL TELEGRAPH.

In the cut the make and break transmitter is shown at v v, with its handle and contacts g and
t. This mechanism sends impulses of current by F and Z to the receiving magnet l. This attracts
and releases its armature K from contact into the position indicated by the dotted lines. This
works the rocker n on the pin o, and actuates the double or anchor pawl s r, which turns the
pallet or scrape wheel m.

The system is dropping into disuse, being supplanted by the telephone.

Synonym--Step-by-step Telegraph.

506   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Double Needle. A telegraph system in which the message is read by the motions of
two vertical needles on the face of the instrument in front of the receiving operator. An identical
instrument faces the transmitting operator. By two handles, one for each hand, the needles
are caused by electric impulses to swing to right and to left so as to give a telegraphic code.
It has been generally superseded by the single needle telegraph.

Telegraph, Duplex. A telegraph capable of transmitting simultaneously two messages over one
wire. The methods of effecting it are distinct from those of multiplex telegraphy. This term
is used as a distinction from diode multiplex telegraphy, in which the work is done on other
principles. There are two systems of duplex telegraphy, the differential and the bridge systems.

Telegraph, Duplex Bridge. A system of duplex telegraphy employing the principle of the Wheatstone
bridge. The other or differential system depends on equality or difference of currents; the
bridge method on equality or difference of potentials. The cut shows the system known as Steam's
Plan.

At the ends of the line wire are two cross connections like duplicate galvanometer connections
in a Wheatstone bridge, each including a receiving relay. The rest of the connections are self-explanatory.

When A depresses his key the current splits at the point indicating the beginning of the bridge.
One portion goes through the line to B and to earth, the other goes to earth at A through the
rheostats indicated by the corrugated lines.

On reaching B's end the current divides at the cross-connection and part goes through the receiving
relay shown in the center of that cross-connection.

Thus if A sends to B or B to A it is without effect on the home receiving instrument. Now suppose
that both simultaneously are sending in opposite directions. If the connections be studied
it will be seen that every movement of the transmitting key will affect the balance of the
distant or receiving end of the bridge and so its instrument will record the signals as they
are sent.

As shown in the cut the sending keys are on local circuits, and work what are known as duplex
transmitters. These are instruments which send line signals without breaking the connection.

Fig. 313. STEARN'S PLAN OF DUPLEX BRIDGE TELEGRAPHY.

In Stearn's plan condensers are introduced as shown. By this plan different receiving instruments
can be used. The inventor once worked a Morse instrument at one end of the line, and a Hughes'
instrument at the other end.

507   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Duplex, Differential. A system of duplex telegraphy employing the differential action
of two exciting or magnetizing coils. The general principles are the following. Suppose that
at each of two stations, there is a magnet working as a sounder or relay. Each magnet is differentially
wound, with two coils of opposite direction, of identical number of turns.

When the sending key at a station A is depressed two exactly equal currents go through the
magnet in opposite directions. One called the compensation current goes to the earth at the
stations. The other called the line current goes through the line, through the line coil of
the distant station E, thereby actuating the relay or sounder armature.

The instrument of the sender A is unaffected because he is sending opposite and equal currents
through its two coils. A special resistance is provided on the compensation circuit for keeping
the currents exactly equal in effect. Nothing the sender at A does affects his own instrument.

Now suppose E desires to telegraph back at the same time that A is telegraphing to his station.
He works his key. This does not affect his own instrument except by sending the equal and opposite
currents through its coils. When his key is depressed and A's key is untouched, he works A's
receiving instrument.

508   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

When A's key is depressed simultaneously with B's key, the two line currents are in opposition
and neutralize each other. This throws out the balance in the instruments and both armatures
are attracted by the compensation currents left free to act by the neutralization of the line
currents.

Fig. 314. DUPLEX TELEGRAPH, DIFFERENTIAL SYSTEM

Suppose that B is sending a dash, and it begins while A's key is raised. The line and compensation
currents in B's receiving instrument neutralize each other and no effect is produced, while
A's receiving instrument begins to register or indicate a dash. Now suppose A starts to send
a dash while B's is half over. He depresses his key. This sends the two opposite currents through
his magnet. His line current neutralizes B's working current so that the compensation currents
in both receiving instruments hold the armatures attracted for the two dashes. Meanwhile A's
dash ends and he releases his key. At once his line current ceases to neutralize B's line current,
his receiving instrument is actuated now by B's line current, while B's receiving instrument
ceases to be actuated by the compensation current.

Two assumptions are made in the above description. The line currents are assumed to be equal
in strength and opposite in direction at each station. Neither of these is necessary. The line
current received at a station is always weaker than the outgoing line current, and it is the
preponderance of the compensation current over the partly neutralized line current that does
the work. As this preponderance is very nearly equal to the line current received from the
distant station, the signals are actuated by almost the same current, whether it is compensation
or line current.

509   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Both line currents may coincide in direction. Then when the two keys are depressed, a line
current of double strength goes through both receiving instruments and both work by preponderance
of the double line current over the compensation current. In other respects the operation is
the same as before described.

Fig. 315. DUPLEX TELEGRAPH, DIFFERENTIAL SYSTEM.

Fig. 316. DIFFERENTIAL DUPLEX TELEGRAPH CONNECTIONS.

The cut shows a diagram of the operation of one end of the line. R and R are resistances, E
and E are earth contacts, and the two circles show the magnet of the receiving instrument wound
with two coils in opposition. The battery and key are also shown. It also illustrates what
happens if the key of the receiver is in the intermediate position breaking contact at both
1 and 2. The sender's line current then goes through both coils of the receiving instrument
magnet, but this time in series, and in coincident direction. This actuates the instrument
as before. Owing to the resistance only half the normal current passes, but this half goes
through twice as many coils or turns as if the receiver's key was in either of the other two
positions.

In actual practice there are many refinements. To compensate for the varying resistance of
the line a rheostat or resistance with sliding connection arm is connected in the compensation
circuit so that the resistance can be instantly changed. As the electro-static capacity of
the line varies sectional condensers are also connected in the compensation circuits.

510   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Facsimile. A telegraph for transmitting facsimiles of drawing or writing. The methods
employed involve the synchronous rotation of two metallic cylinders, one at the transmitting
end, the other at the receiving end.

On the transmitter the design is drawn with non-conducting ink. A tracer presses upon the surface
of each cylinder and a circuit is completed through the two contacts. In operation a sheet
of chemically prepared paper is placed over the surface of the receiving cylinder. The two
cylinders are rotated in exact synchronism and the tracers are traversed longitudinally as
the cylinders rotate. Thus a number of makes and breaks are produced by the transmitting cylinder,
and on the receiving cylinder the chemicals in the paper are decomposed, producing marks on
the paper exactly corresponding to those on the transmitting cylinder.

Synonyms--Autographic Telegraph--Pantelegraphy.

Telegraph, Harmonic Multiplex. A telegraph utilizing sympathetic vibration for the transmission
of several messages at once over the same line. It is the invention of Elisha Gray. The transmitting
instrument comprises a series of vibrating reeds or tuning-forks, each one of a different note,
kept in vibration each by its own electro-magnet. Each fork is in its own circuit, and all
unite with the main line so as to send over it a make and break current containing as many
notes superimposed as there are tuning forks. At the other end of the line there are corresponding
tuning forks, each with its own magnet. Each fork at this end picks up its own note from the
makes and breaks on the main line, by the principle of sympathetic vibration.

To each pair of operators a pair of forks of identical notes are assigned. As many messages
can be transmitted simultaneously as there are pairs of forks or reeds.

The movements of a telegraph key in circuit with one of the transmitting reeds sends signals
of the Morse alphabet, which are picked out by the tuning fork of identical note at the other
end of the line.

511   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Hughes'. A printing telegraph in very extensive use in continental Europe. Its general
features are as follows:

The instruments at each end of the line are identical. Each includes a keyboard like a piano
manual, with a key for each letter or character. On each machine is a type wheel, which has
the characters engraved in relief upon its face. With the wheel a "chariot" as it is termed
also rotates. The type wheels at both stations are synchronized. When a key is depressed, a
pin is thrown up which arrests the chariot, and sends a current to the distant station. This
current causes a riband of paper to be pressed up against the face of both type wheels so as
to receive the imprint of the character corresponding to the key. The faces of the wheels are
inked by an inking roller.

Fig. 317. ELECTRO-MAGNET OF HUGHES' PRINTING TELEGRAPH.

The most characteristic feature is the fact that the current sent by depressing a key does
not attract an armature, but releases one, which is then pulled back by a spring. The armature
is restored to its position by the mechanical operation of the instrument. The magnet used
is a polarized electro-magnet. Coils are carried on the ends of a strong powerful magnet. The
coils are so connected that a current sent through them by depressing a key is in opposition
to the magnetism of the permanent magnet so that it tends to release the armature, and in practice
does so. This release permits the printing mechanism to act. The latter is driven by a descending
weight, so that very slight electric currents can actuate the instruments.

Synonym--Hughes' Type Printer.

Telegraphic Code. (a) The telegraphic alphabet, as of the Morse System. (See Alphabet, Telegraphic.)

(b) A code for use in transmitting messages either secretly, or comprising several words or
short sentences in one word, in order to economize in transmission. Such codes are extensively
used in commercial cable messages.

512   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Magneto-electric. A telegraph in which the current is produced by magneto-electric
generators. It has been applied to a considerable extent in England. The Wheatstone ABC or
dial telegraph is operated by a magneto-generator turned by hand.

In this country the magneto-electric generator by which the calling bell of a telephone is
rung is an example. The magneto-electric key (See Key, Magneto-electric) is for use in one
kind of magneto-electric telegraphing.

Telegraph, Morse. A telegraph, characterized by the use of a relay, working a local circuit,
which circuit contains a sounder, or recorder for giving dot and dash signals constituting
the Morse alphabet. The signals are sent by a telegraph key, which when depressed closes the
circuit, and when released opens it. The two underlying conceptions of the Morse Telegraph
system are the use of the dot and dash alphabet, and the use of the local circuit, which circuit
includes a receiving instrument, and is worked by a relay, actuating a local battery. It would
be difficult to indicate any invention in telegraphy which has had such far-reaching consequences
as the one known as the Morse telegraph.

In other places the principal apparatus of the system will be found described. The cut Fig.
318, repeated here gives the general disposition of a Morse system. (See Circuit, Local.)

Fig. 318. DIAGRAM OF MORSE SYSTEM.

513   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The key by which the messages are transmitted is shown in Fig. 319. M is a base plate of brass.
A is a brass lever, mounted on an arbor G carried between adjustable set screws D. C is the
anvil where contact is made by depressing the key by the finger piece B of ebonite. E, Fl are
adjusting screws for regulating the vertical play of the lever. H is the switch for opening
or closing the circuit. It is opened for transmission, and closed for receiving. By screws,
L L, with wing nuts, K K, the whole is screwed down to a table.

Fig. 319. MORSE TELEGRAPH KEY.

In the United States the simplest disposition of apparatus is generally used. The main line
is kept on closed circuit. In it may be included a large number of relays at stations all along
the line, each with its own local circuit. There may be fifty of such stations. Battery is
generally placed at each end of the line. Very generally gravity batteries are used, although
dynamos now tend to supplant them in important stations.

As relays the ordinary relay is used. Its local circuit includes a sounder and local battery.
The latter is very generally of the gravity type, but oxide of copper batteries (See Battery,
Oxide of Copper) are now being introduced. At main or central offices, the terminals of the
lines reach switch boards, where by spring-jacks and plugs, any desired circuits can be looped
into the main circuit in series therewith.

In European practise the main line is kept on open circuit. Polarized relays are used to work
the local circuits. The currents for these have to be alternating in direction. When the line
is not in use its ends are connected to earth at both ends, leaving the battery out of circuit.
Each intermediate station has its own main, or line battery for use when it desires to send
a message. In the American system as first described, it will be seen that the main batteries
are at most two in number.

For the details of the different apparatus, the following definitions may be consulted: Embosser,
Telegraphic--Recorder, Morse--Relay--Relay Connection--Sounder.

514   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Multiplex. A system of telegraphy by which a number of messages can be transmitted
in both directions over a single wire. The principles underlying the systems are the following:

Suppose that at the two extremities of a telegraph line two arms are kept in absolute synchronous
rotation. Let the arms in their rotation, press upon as many conducting segments as there are
to be transmissions over the line. A transmitting and receiving set of instruments may be connected
to one segment at one end of the line, and another set to the corresponding segment at the
distant station. For each pair of segments two sets can be thus connected. Then if the arm
rotates so rapidly that the contacts succeed each other rapidly enough each pair of sets of
instruments can be worked independently of the others. In practice this rapid succession is
effected by having a number of contacts made for each pair during a single rotation of the
arm or equivalent.

The multiplex system has been perfected by the use of La Cour's phonic wheel (see Phonic Wheel),
and brought into a practical success by Patrick B. Delany, of New York.

Two phonic wheels rotate at each end of the line. They are kept in synchronous motion by two
vibrating steel reeds of exactly the same fundamental note, and the axle of each wheel carries
an arm whose end trails over the contacts or distributor segments already spoken of. The reeds
are adjusted to vibrate at such speed that the trailer is in contact with each segment about
1/500 second. The number of groups of segments required for each working is determined by the
retardation of the signals owing to the static capacity of the line. To convert the rapidly
recurring impulses of current into practically a single current, condensers are connected across
the coils of the relay. One battery serves for all the arms.

Multiplex telegraphy can effect from two to six simultaneous transmissions over one wire. For
two or four transmissions the method only distinguishes it from duplex or quadruplex telegraphy.
The terms diode, triode, tetrode, pentode and hexode working are used to indicate respectively
the simultaneous transmission of two, three, four, five, or six messages over one wire.

It will be seen that the multiplex process really assigns to each transmission separate times,
but divides these times into such short and quickly recurring intervals that the work is executed
as if there was continuous contact. In no case is there the popular conception of the sending
of several messages actually simultaneously over one wire. Each signal in reality has its own
time assigned it, divided into short periods of high frequency, and only utilizes the line
when it is free.

515   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Over-house. An English term for telegraph lines led over houses and supported on
standards on the roofs.

Telegraph Pole Brackets. Arms for carrying insulators, which arms are attached to telegraph
poles or other support. They vary in style; sometimes they are straight bars of wood gained
into and bolted or spiked in place; sometimes they are of iron.

Telegraph, Printing. Various telegraphs have been invented for printing in the ordinary alphabet
the messages at the receiving end of the line.

Representative instruments of this class are used for transmitting different market and stock
reports to business offices from the exchanges. The type faces are carried on the periphery
of a printing wheel, which is rotated like the hand of a dial telegraph, and against whose
face a paper riband is pressed whenever the proper letter comes opposite to it. As each letter
is printed the paper moves forward the space of one letter. Spacing between words is also provided
for. In the recent instruments two lines of letters are printed on the paper one above the other.

In England, and on the continent of Europe, printing instruments have received considerable
use for ordinary telegraphic work. Hughes' type printer and Wheatstone's ABC telegraph meet
with extensive use there for ordinary transmission.

Telegraph, Quadruplex. Duplex telegraphy is the sending of two messages in opposite directions
simultaneously through the same wire. Duplex telegraphy is the sending of two messages simultaneously
in the same direction. The two combined constitute quadruplex telegraphy. [SIC]

The system was suggested by Stark of Vienna and Bosscha of Leyden in 1855; the successful problem
was solved by Edison in 1874.

The principle is based on the two orders of difference in electric currents; they may vary
in strength or in direction. Thus we may have one instrument which works with change of strength
of current only, the other with change of direction only. The two can be worked together if
the direction of the current can be altered without alteration of strength, and if strength
can be altered without alteration of direction. Double current and single current working are
so combined that one relay works by one system of currents and another relay by the other system.
A current is constantly maintained through the line. The relay operated by change in direction
is a simple polarized relay which works by change of direction of current. The relay operated
by change in strength is the ordinary unpolarized relay.

516   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

For the following description and the cuts illustrating it we are indebted to Preece and Sivewright.
The cut shows the arrangement of the apparatus and connections for terminal offices.

"Sufficient table room is provided to seat four clerks. The apparatus is arranged for the two
senders to sit together in the centre, the messages to be forwarded being placed between them.
The section on the left of the switch Q is known as the 'A' side, that on the right as the
'B' side of the apparatus.

K1 the reversing key, reverses the direction of the current. K2 is a simple key, known as the
increment key; it is used simply to increase the strength of the current.

Fig. 320. QUADRUPLEX TELEGRAPH CONNECTIONS.

The way in which the keys K1 and K2 combine their action is shown by Fig. 321. E1 and E2 are
the line batteries, the one having two and one-third (2-1/3) the number of cells of the other,
so that if E1 be the electro-motive force of the smaller, that of the whole combined battery
will be 3.3 E1. The negative pole of E1 is connected to z and z1 of  K1 and the positive pole
of E2 to a of K2 through a resistance coil s. A wire, called the 'tap' wire, connects the positive
pole of E1 and the negative pole of E2 to b of K2. This wire has in it a resistance coil r2.
The springs c and c1 of Kl are connected to the lever L of K2. Now, when both keys are at rest,
the negative pole of E1 is to line through z, and the positive pole of E1 to earth through
b of K2 and c of K1; the positive pole of E2 being insulated at a of K2.

517   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

There is thus a weak negative current flowing to line. When K1 alone is worked, the current
of E1 is reversed. When K2 is worked alone, c of K1 is transferred from b to a, and the strength
of the negative current going to line is increased through the increase of the electro-motive
force from E1 to 3.3 E1 for the whole battery is brought into play. When K1 and K2 are depressed
together, then the negative pole of E1 goes to earth through Z1; and the positive pole of E2
to line through a of K2 and c1 of K1 and a positive current, due to the whole electro-motive
force 3.3 E1 goes to line. Hence the effect of working K1 is simply to reverse the current,
whatever its strength, while that of K2 is to strengthen it, whatever its direction.

The resistance coil s, of 100° resistance, is called a spark coil, because it prevents the
high electro-motive force of the whole battery from damaging the points of contact by sparking
or forming an arc across when signals are sent; and the resistance r2 is made approximately
equal to the combined resistance of E2 and the spark coil, so that the total resistance of
the circuit may not be altered by the working of the apparatus.

Fig. 321. QUADRUPLEX TELEGRAPH.

A1 and B1 (Fig. 320) are the relays which are used to respond to the changes in the currents
sent by the keys K1 and K2 at the distant station.

A, is a simple polarized relay wound differentially, each wire having a resistance of 200 [omega],
and so connected up as to respond to the working of the reversing key K1 of the distant station.
It acts independently of the strength of the current, and is therefore not affected by the
working of the increment key K2. It is connected up so as to complete the local circuit of
the sounder S1 and the local battery l1 and forms the receiving portion of the 'A' side.

B, is a non-polarized relay also wound differentially, each coil having a resistance of 200
[omega]. It responds only to an increase in the strength of the current, and therefore only
to the working of the increment key K2 of the distant station.

518   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The relay spring is so adjusted that the armatures are not actuated by the weak current sent
from E by the key K1.

In its normal position this relay completes the circuit of the local battery through the sounder
S. This sounder S, called the uprighting sounder, acts as a relay to a second sounder, S2,
called the reading sounder, which is worked by another local battery, l2. Of course, normally,
the armature of S is held down and that of S2 is up, but when the tongue t moves, as it does
when the increment key K2 is depressed so as to send the whole current to line, then the current
from l is interrupted, and the circuit of l2 is completed by the rising of the armature of
S, causing the reading sounder S2 to work. This is the 'B' side.

R is a rheostat for balancing the resistance of the line, as used in duplex working.

C is a condenser used for compensating the static charge of the line. It is provided with an
adjustable retardation coil, R1, to prolong the effect of the compensating current from the
condenser.

G is a differential galvanometer, used for testing, and for facilitating adjustment and balancing.

Q is a switch for putting the line to earth, either for balancing, or for any other purpose.
There is on the earth wire leading from Q a resistance coil, r1, equalling approximately the
resistance of the whole battery, 3.3 E1, and the resistance s.

The connections shown in Fig. 321, are for an 'up' office. At a 'down' office it is necessary
to reverse the wires on the two lower terminals of the galvanometer and the two battery wires
on the reversing key K1.

The keys K1 and K2 are, for repeaters, replaced by transmitters.

The adjustment of this apparatus requires great care and great accuracy. Its good working depends
essentially on technical skill that can only be acquired by patience and perseverance.

Faults in working generally arise from careless adjustments, dirty contacts, loose connections,
battery failures, and the ordinary line interruptions, but there are no troubles that are beyond
the reach of ordinary skill, and it can be safely said that, within moderate distances, wherever
and whenever duplex working is practicable, then quadruplex working is so too."

The above is a typical quadruplex bridge system. There is also a differential system, the full
description of which, in addition to what has been given, is outside of the scope of this work.

519   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph Repeater. An extension of the relay system, adopted for long lines. A repeating station
comprises in general terms duplicate repeating apparatus. One set is connected for messages
in one direction, the other for messages in the opposite direction. The general operation of
a repeating set is as follows. The signals as received actuate a relay which by its local circuit
actuates a key, which in ordinary practise would be the sounder, but in the repeater its lever
opens and closes a circuit comprising a battery and a further section of the line.

Repeaters are placed at intervals along the line. Each repeater repeats the signals received
for the next section of line with a new battery. It represents an operator who would receive
and repeat the message, except that it works automatically.

The Indo-European line from London to Teheran, 3,800 miles long, is worked directly without
any hand retransmission, it being carried out by five repeaters. This gives an average of over
500 miles for each repeater.

Repeaters introduce retardation, and each repeater involves a reduction in the rate of working.
Yet in many cases they increase the speed of a line greatly, as its speed is about equal to
that of its worst section, which may be far greater than that of the whole line in one.

Synonym--Translater.

Telegraph Signal. In the telegraph alphabet, a dot, or dash; the signal or effect produced
by one closing of the circuit. A dash is equal in length to three dots. The space between signals
is equal to one dot; the space between letters to three dots; and the space between words to
six dots.

Telegraph, Single Needle. A telegraph system in which the code is transmitted by the movements
of a needle shaped index which oscillates to right and left, the left hand deflection corresponding
to dots, the right hand deflection to dashes. The instruments for sending and receiving are
combined into one. The needles are virtually the indexes of vertical galvanometers. In one
form by a tapper key (see Tapper), in another form by a key worked by a drop-handle (the drop
handle instrument), currents of opposite directions are sent down the line. These pass through
both instruments, affecting both needles and causing them to swing to right or left, as the
operator moves his key.

As galvanometer needle or actuating needle a soft iron needle is employed, which is polarized
by the proximity of two permanent magnets. This avoids danger of reversal of polarity from
lightning, a trouble incident to the old system.

520   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

The cut, Fig. 322, shows a single needle telegraph instrument of the tapper form. The action
of the tapper can be understood from the next cut.

Fig. 322. SINGLE NEEDLE TELEGRAPH INSTRUMENT, DOUBLE TAPPER FORM.

Fig. 323. DOUBLE TAPPER KEY FOR SINGLE NEEDLE TELEGRAPH.

C and Z are two strips of metal to which the positive and negative poles of the battery are
respectively connected. E and L are two metallic springs; E is connected to earth, L is connected
to the line; at rest both press against Z. If L is depressed so as to touch C, the current
from the battery goes to the line by the key L, goes through the coils of the distant instrument
and deflects the needle to one side, and then goes to the earth. If the key E is depressed,
L retaining its normal position, the direction of the current is reversed, for the other pole
of the battery is connected to the earth and the reverse current going through the coils of
the distant instrument deflects the galvanometer needle to the other side.

In the drop-handle type an analogous form of commutator worked by a single handle produces
the same effects.

521   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telegraph, Wheatstone, A. B. C. A magneto-electric telegraph of the dial system. An alternating
current magneto-generator is turned by hand and by depressing keys its current is admitted
to or cut off from the line and receiver's instrument. The message is received by a dial instrument
working by the escapement motion described under Telegraph, Dial.

Telegraph, Writing. A telegraph in which the message is received in written characters. The
transmitter includes a stylus which is held in the hand and whose point bears against the upper
end of a vertical rod. The rod is susceptible of oscillation in all directions, having at its
base a spring support equivalent to a universal joint.

The stylus is moved about in the shape of letters. As it does this it throws a series of resistances
in and out of the circuit.

At the receiving end of the line the instrument for recording the message includes two electro-magnets
with their cores at right angles to each other and their faces near together at the point of
the angle. An armature is supported between the faces and through it a vertical rod carried
by a spring at its bottom rises. These magnets receive current proportional to the resistances
cut in and out by the motions of the other rod at the transmitting end of the line. These resistances
are arranged in two series at right angles to each other, one for each magnet. Thus the movements
of the transmitting stylus and rod are repeated by the end of the rod in the receiving instrument.
A species of pen is carried at the end of the rod of the receiving instrument, which marks
the letters upon a riband of paper which is fed beneath it.

Telemanometer. Electric. A pressure gauge with electric attachment for indicating or recording
its indications at a distance.

It is applicable to steam boilers, so as to give the steam pressure in any desired place.

Telemeter, Electric. An apparatus for electrically indicating or recording at a distance the
indications of any instrument such as a pressure gauge, barometer or thermometer, or for similar
work. The telemanometer applied to a boiler comes into this class of instrument.

Telephotography. The transmission of pictures by the electric current, the requisite changes
in the current being effected by the action of light upon selenium. The picture is projected
by a magic lantern. Its projection is traversed by a selenium resistance through which the
current passes. This is moved systematically over its entire area, thus constituting the transmitter,
and synchronously with the motion of the selenium a contact point at the other end of the line
moves systematically over a sheet of chemically prepared paper. The paper, which may be saturated
with a solution of potassium ferrocyanide and ammonium nitrate, is stained by the passage of
the current, and by the variation in intensity of staining, which variation is due to variations
in the current, produced by the effects of the light upon the selenium, the picture is reproduced.

522   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telepherage. An electric transportation system, hitherto only used for the carrying of ore,
freight, etc. Its characteristic feature is that the electric conductors, suspended from poles,
supply the way on which carriages provided with electric motors run. The motors take their
current directly from the conductors.

There are two conducting lines, running parallel with each other, supported at the opposite
ends of transverse brackets on a row of supporting poles. At each pole the lines cross over
so that right line alternates with left, between consecutive pairs of poles.

The cars are suspended from pulleys running on one or the other of the conductors. A train
of such cars are connected and the current is taken in near one end and leaves near the other
end of the train. These current connections are so distant, their distance being regulated
by the length of the train, that they are, for all but an instant at the time of passing each
of the poles, in connection with segments of the line which are of opposite potential. To carry
out this principle the distance between contacts is equal to the distance between poles. Owing
to the crossing over of the lines the contacts are in connection as described and thereby the
actuating current is caused to go through the motors.

Cars running in one direction go on the electric conductors on the one side, those running
in the other direction go on the other conductor.

A great many refinements have been introduced, but the system has been very little used.

Telephone. An instrument for the transmission of articulate speech by the electric current.
The current is defined as of the undulatory type. (See Current, Undulatory.)

The cut shows what may be termed the fundamental telephone circuit. A line wire is shown terminating
in ground plates and with a telephone in circuit at each end. The latter consists of a magnet
N S with a coil of insulated wire H surrounding one end. Facing the pole of the magnet is a
soft iron diaphragm D, held in a frame or mouthpiece T. Any change of current in the line affects
the magnetism of the magnet, causing it to attract the diaphragm more or less. The magnet and
diaphragm really constitute a little electric motor, the diaphragm vibrating back and forth
through an exceedingly short range, for changes in the magnetic attraction.

The principle of the reversibility of the dynamo applies here. If the magnet is subjected to
no change in magnetism, and if the diaphragm is moved or vibrated in front of its poles, currents
will be induced in the wire bobbin which surrounds its end. If two such magnets with bobbins
and diaphragms are arranged as shown, vibrations imparted to one diaphragm will send currents
through the line which, affecting the magnetism of the distant magnet, will cause its diaphragm
to vibrate in exact accordance with the motions of the first or motor diaphragm. In the combination
one telephone represents a dynamo, the other a motor.

If the vibrations of the diaphragm are imparted by the voice, the voice with all its modulations
will be reproduced by the telephone at the distant end of the line.

523   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 324. DIAGRAM OF BELL TELEPHONES AND LINE WITH EARTH CONNECTIONS.

Fig. 325. SECTION OF BELL TELEPHONE.

The above gives the essential features of the Bell telephone. In practice the telephone is
used only as the receiver. As transmitter a microphone is employed. To give the current a battery,
generally of the open circuit type, is used, and the current in the line is an induced or secondary
one.

The microphone which is talked to, and which is the seat of the current variations which reproduce
original sound, is termed the transmitter, the telephone in which the sounds are produced at
the distant end of the line is termed the receiver.

Fig. 325 shows the construction of the Bell telephone in universal use in this country as the
receiver. M is a bar magnet, in a case L L. B B is a bobbin or coil of insulated wire surrounding
one end of the magnet. D is the diaphragm of soft iron plate (ferrotype metal), and E is the
mouthpiece. The terminals of the coil B B connect with the binding screws C C. The wire in
the coil is No. 36, A. W. G., and is wound to a resistance of about 80 ohms.

524   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

As typical transmitter the Blake instrument may be cited. It is a carbon microphone. It is
shown in section in the cut; a is the mouthpiece and e is a diaphragm of iron plate, although
other substances could be used; f is a steel spring, with a platinum contact piece at its end.
One end bears against the diaphragm, the other against a carbon block k. The latter is carried
by a brass block p, and pressure is maintained between these contacts by the spring g and weight
of the piece c, which by gravity tends to press all together. The current passes by way of
the spring f, carbon button k and spring g through the circuit indicated.

A battery is in circuit with these parts. If a telephone is also in circuit, and the transmitter
is spoken against, the diaphragm vibrating affects the resistance of the carbon-platinum contact,
without even breaking the contact, and the telephone reproduces the sound. The heavy piece
of metal C acts by its inertia to prevent breaking of the contact. The position of this piece
c, which is carried by the brass plate m, is adjusted by the screw n.

Fig. 326. SECTION OF BLAKE TRANSMITTER.

In practice the transmitter and battery are usually on a local circuit, which includes the
primary of an induction coil. The line and distant receiving telephone are in circuit with
the secondary of the induction coil, without any battery.

Telephone, Bi-. A pair of telephones carried at the ends of a curved bar or spring so that
they fit the head of a person using them. One telephone is held against each ear without the
use of the hands.

525   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telephone, Capillary. A telephone utilizing electro-capillarity for the production of telephonic
effects. The following describes the invention of Antoine Breguet.

The point of a glass tube, drawn out at its lower end to a capillary opening dips vertically
into a vessel. This vessel is partly filled with mercury, over which is a layer of dilute sulphuric
acid. The end of the immersed tube dips into the acid, but does not reach the mercury. One
line contact is with mercury in the tube, the other with the mercury in the vessel. The arrangement
of tube and vessel is duplicated, giving one set for each end of the line. On introducing a
battery in the circuit the level of the mercury is affected by electro-capillarity. The tubes
are closed by plates or diaphragms at their tops, so as to enclose a column of air. It is evident
that the pressure of this air will depend upon the level of the mercury in the tube, and this
depends on the electro-motive force. On speaking against the diaphragm the sound waves affect
the air pressure, and consequently the level, enough to cause potential differences which reproduce
the sound in the other instrument.

Fig. 327. BREGURT'S CAPILLARY TELEPHONE.

Telephone, Carbon. A telephone transmitter based on the use of carbon as a material whose resistance
is varied by the degree of pressure brought to bear upon it. Undoubtedly the surface contact
between the carbon and the other conducting material has much to do with the action. Many carbon
telephones have been invented. Under Telephone the Blake transmitter is described, which is
a carbon telephone transmitter. The Edison carbon transmitter is shown in section in the cut.
E is the mouth piece and D the diaphragm. I is a carbon disc with adjusting screw V. A platinum
plate B B, with ivory button b, is attached to the upper surface of the carbon disc. C C is
an insulating ring. The wire connections shown bring the disc into circuit. It is connected
like a Blake transmitter. It is now but little used.

Fig. 328. SECTION OF EDISON CARBON TRANSMITTER.

526   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telephone, Chemical. A telephone utilizing chemical or electrolytic action in transmitting
or receiving. The electro-motograph is an example of a chemical receiver. (See Electro-motograph.)

Telephone, Electrostatic. A telephone utilizing electrostatic disturbances for reproduction
of the voice. In the cut D and C are highly charged electrophori. The diaphragms A and B when
spoken to affect the potential of the electrophorus so as to produce current variations which
will reproduce the sound. Dolbear and others have invented other forms of transmitters based
on electrostatic action. Receivers have also been constructed. A simple condenser may be made
to reproduce sound by being connected with a powerful telephone current.

Fig. 329. DIAGRAM OF EDISON'S ELECTROSTATIC TELEPHONE.

Telephone Induction Coil. The induction coil used in telephone circuits for inducing current
on the main line. It is simply a small coil wound with two separate circuits of insulated wire.
In the Edison telephone the primary coil, in circuit with the transmitter, is of No. 18 to
24 wire and of 3 to 4 ohms resistance. The secondary in circuit with the line and receiving
instrument is of No. 36 wire and of 250 ohms resistance. The Bell telephone induction coil
has its primary of No. 18 to 24 wire wound to a resistance of 1/2 ohm, and its secondary of
No. 36 wire, and of 80 ohms resistance.

527   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Telephone, Reaction. A form of telephone containing two coils of insulated wire, one of which
is mounted on the disc, and the other on the magnet pole in the usual way. These coils react
upon each other so as to strengthen the effect.

Telephone, Thermo-electric. A telephone transmitter including a thermo-electric battery, placed
in circuit with the line. A plate of vulcanite faces it. When the sound waves strike the vulcanite
they move it backward and forward. These movements, owing to the elasticity of the vulcanite,
produce minute changes of temperature in it, which affecting the thermo-electric pile produce
in the circuit currents, which passing through a Bell telephone cause it to speak. This type
of instrument has never been adopted in practice.

Telephote. An apparatus for transmitting pictures electrically, the properties of selenium
being utilized for the purpose.

Synonym--Pherope.

Teleseme. An annunciator, displaying on a dial the object wanted by the person using it. It
is employed to transmit messages from rooms in a hotel to the office, or for similar functions.

Tele-thermometer. A thermometer with electric attachment for indicating or recording its indications
at a distance.

Tempering, Electric. A process of tempering metals by electrically produced heat. The article
is made part of an electric circuit. The current passing through it heats it, thereby tempering
it. For wire the process can be made continuous. The wire is fed from one roll to another,
and if required one roll may be immersed in a liquid bath or the wire between the rolls may
be led therein. The current is brought to one roll and goes through the wire to the other.
As it does this the wire is constantly fed from one roll to another. The bath may be used as
described to cool it after the heating. The amount of heating may be regulated by the rate
of motion of the wire.

528   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Ten, Powers of. This adjunct to calculations has become almost indispensable in working with
units of the C. G. S. system. It consists in using some power of 10 as a multiplier which may
be called the factor. The number multiplied may be called the characteristic. The following
are the general principles.

The power of 10 is shown by an exponent which indicates the number of ciphers in the multiplier.
Thus 10^2 indicates 100; 10^3 indicates 1,000 and so on.

The exponent, if positive, denotes an integral number, as shown in the preceding paragraph.
The exponent, if negative, denotes the reciprocal of the indicated power of 10. Thus 10^-2
indicates 1/100; 10^-3 indicates 1/1000 and so on.

The compound numbers based on these are reduced by multiplication or division to simple expressions.
Thus: 3.14 X 10^7 = 3.14 X 10,000,000 = 31,400,000. 3.14 X 10^-7 = 3.14/10,000,000 or 314/1000000000.
Regard must be paid to the decimal point as is done here.

To add two or more expressions in this notation if the exponents of the factors are alike in
all respects, add the characteristics and preserve the same factor. Thus:

  (51X 10^6) + (54 X 10^6) = 105 X 10^6.
  (9.1 X 10^-9) + (8.7 X 10^-9) = 17.8 X 10^-9.

To subtract one such expression from another, subtract the characteristics and preserve the
same factor. Thus:

  (54 X 10^6) - (51 X 10^6) = 3 X 10^6.

If the factors have different exponents of the same sign the factor or factors of larger exponent
must be reduced to the smaller exponent, by factoring. The characteristic of the expression
thus treated is multiplied by the odd factor. This gives a new expression whose characteristic
is added to the other, and the factor of smaller exponent is preserved for both,

Thus:
  (5 X 10^7) + (5 X10^9) = (5 X 10^7) + (5 X 100 X 10^7) = 505 X 10^7.

The same applies to subtraction.

If the factors differ in sign, it is generally best to leave the addition or subtraction to
be simply expressed. However, by following the above rule, it can be done. Thus:

Add
  5 X 10^-2 and 5 X 10^3.
  5 X 10^3 = 5 X 10^5 X 10^-2
  (5 X 10^5 X 10^-2) + (5 X 10^-2) = 500005 X 10^-2

This may be reduced to a fraction 500000/100 = 5000.05.

To multiply add the exponents of the factors, for the new factor, and multiply the characteristics
for a new characteristic. The exponents must be added algebraically; that is, if of different
signs the numerically smaller one is subtracted from the other one, and its sign is given the
new exponent.

Thus;
  (25 X 10^6) X (9 X 10^8) = 225 X 10^14.
  (29 X 10^ -8) X (11 X 10^7) = 319 X 10^-1
  (9 X 10^8) X (98 X 10^2) = 882 X 10^1

529   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

To divide, subtract (algebraically) the exponent of the divisor from that of the dividend for
the exponent of the new factor, and divide the characteristics one by the other for the new
characteristic. Algebraic subtraction is effected by changing the sign of the subtrahend, subtracting
the numerically smaller number from the larger, and giving the result the sign of the larger
number. (Thus to subtract 7 from 5 proceed thus; 5 - 7 = -2.)

Thus;
  (25 X 10^6) / (5 X 10^8) = 5 X 10^-2
  (28 X 10^-8) / (5 X 10^3) = 5.6 X 10^-11

Tension. Electro-motive force or potential difference in a current system is often thus termed.
It is to be distinguished from intensity or current strength, which word it too greatly resembles.

Tension, Electric. (a) The condition an electrified body is brought into by electrification,
when each molecule repels its neighbor. The condition is described as one of self-repulsion.

(b) The voltage or potential difference of a circuit is also thus termed.

Terminal. The end of any open electric circuit, or of any electric apparatus; as the terminals
of a circuit, dynamo, or battery.

Terminal Pole. In telegraph line construction the last pole of a series; one beyond which the
line is not carried. Such pole, as the pull of the wires is all in one direction, requires
special staying or support. The regular line poles are free from this strain, as the wire pulls
in both directions.

Tetanus, Acoustic. A term in electro-therapeutics. An effect produced on a nerve by very rapidly
alternating induced currents. The currents are produced by an induction coil with a vibrator
giving a musical note. This is a species of gauge of proper frequency of alternations.

Theatrophone. An apparatus worked by automatic paying machinery by which a telephone connection
is made with a theatre or opera by the deposition of a coin in a slot.

Therm. A unit of heat. It has been proposed by the British Association and amounts to a redefinition
of the smaller calorie.

530   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thermaesthesiometer. An electro-therapeutic instrument for testing the sensitiveness of the
surface of the body to changes of temperature. Vessels of mercury are provided with thermometers
to indicate their temperature. One vessel is surrounded by an electric conductor wound in a
number of turns. The temperature is raised by passing a current through this. By successive
applications of the vessels to the same spot upon the skin the power of differentiating temperatures
is determined.

Thermo Call. (a) An electric alarm or call bell operated by thermo-electric currents. It may
serve as a fire alarm or heat indicator, always bearing in mind the fact that differential
heat is the requisite in a thermo-electric couple.

(b) See Thermo-electric Call.

Thermo-chemical Battery. A voltaic battery in which the electro-motive force is generated by
chemical action induced by heat.

The chemical used generally is sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate. The positive plate is carbon.
On heating the battery the nitrate attacks the carbon, burning it and produces potential difference.
For negative plate some metal unattacked by the nitrate may be employed.

Fig. 330. POUILLET'S THERMO-ELECTRIC BATTERY.

Thermo-electric Battery or Pile. A number of thermo-electric couples q. v., connected generally
in series.

In Nobili's pile the metals are bismuth and antimony; paper bands covered with varnish are
used to insulate where required. In Becquerel's pile copper sulphide (artificial) and German
silver, (90 copper, 10 nickel) are the two elements. The artificial copper sulphide is made
into slabs 4 inches long, 3/4 inch wide, and 1/2 inch thick (about). Water is used to keep
one set of junctions cool, and gas flames to heat the other set. In Fig. 331, c, d represent
the binding screws. The couples are mounted on a vertical standard, with adjusting socket and
screw B, so that its lower end can be immersed in cold water, or raised therefrom as desired.

531   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

FIG. 331. BECQUEREL'S THERMO-ELECTRIC BATTERIES.

Fig. 332 shows one couple of the battery. S is artificial antimony sulphide; M is German silver;
m is a protecting plate of German silver to save the sulphide from wasting in the flame.

Fig. 332. ELEMENTS OF BECQUEREL'S THERMOELECTRIC BATTERIES.

Clamond's pile has been used in practical work. The negative element is an alloy of antimony,
2 parts, zinc, 1 part. The positive element is tin plate. Mica in some parts, and a paste of
soluble glass and asbestus in other parts are used as insulators. They are built up so as to
form a cylinder within which the fire is maintained. The air is relied on to keep the outer
junctions cool. The temperature does not exceed 200° C. (392° F.)

Sixty such elements have an electro-motive force of 300 volts and an internal resistance of
1.5 ohms. Such a battery requires the consumption of three cubic feet of gas per hour. (See
Currents, Thermo-electric. )

532   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thermo-electric Call. A thermostat arranged to ring a bell or to give some indication when
the temperature rises or falls beyond certain points. It may be a compound bar of brass and
steel fixed at one end and free for the rest of its length. Its end comes between two adjustable
contacts. As the temperature rises it bends one way (away from the brass side) and, if hot
enough, touching a contact gives one signal. If the temperature falls it curves the other way,
and if cold enough touches the other contact, giving another signal. (See Thermostat, Electric.)

Thermo-electric Couple. If two dissimilar conductors form adjacent parts of a closed circuit,
and their junction is at a different temperature than that of the rest of the circuit, a current
will result. Such pair of conductors are called a thermo-electric couple. They may be joined
in series so as to produce considerable electro-motive force. (See Thermo-electricity and other
titles in thermo-electricity.)

The efficiency of a thermo-electric couple according to the second law of thermo-dynamics is
necessarily low--not over 10 per cent.

Thermo-electric Diagram. A diagram indicating the change in potential difference for a fixed
difference of temperature between different metals at different temperatures. It is laid out
with rectangular co-ordinates. On one axis temperatures are laid off, generally on the axis
of abscissas. On the other axis potential differences are marked. Different lines are then
drawn, one for each metal, which show the potential difference, say for one degree centigrade
difference of temperature between their junctions, produced at the different temperatures marked
on the axis of abscissas.

Fig. 333· THERMO-ELECTRIC DIAGRAM, GIVING POTENTIAL DIFFERENCE IN C. G. S. UNITS.

Thus taking copper and iron we find at the temperature 0° C. (32° F.) a difference of one degree
C. (1.8° F.) in their junctions will produce a potential difference of 15.98 micro volts, while
at 274.5° C. (526.1° F.) the lines cross, and zero difference of potential is indicated. Taking
the lead line on the same diagram it crosses the iron line a little above 350° C. (662° F.),
indicating that if one junction is heated slightly above and the other is heated slightly below
this temperature no potential difference will be produced. Lead and copper lines, on the other
hand, diverge more and more as the temperature rises.

533   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thermo-electric Inversion. The thermo-electric relations of two conductors vary at different
temperatures. Sometimes at a definite point they have no electro-motive force and after passing
this point the positive plate becomes a negative one and vice versa. This is inversion, or
reversal. (See Thermo-electric Diagram.)

Synonym-- Thermo-electric Reversal.

Thermo-electricity. Electric energy, electro-motive force or electrification produced from
heat energy by direct conversion. It is generally produced in a circuit composed of two electric
conductors of unlike material, which circuit must possess at least two junctions of the unlike
substances. By heating one of these to a higher temperature than that of the other, or by maintaining
one junction at a different temperature from that of the other a potential difference is created
accompanied by an electric current.

In many cases differential application of heat to an identical material will develop potential
difference. This effect, the converse of the Thomson effect, is not used to produce currents,
as in a closed circuit the potential differences due to differential heating would neutralize
each other.

Thermo-electric Junction. A junction between two dissimilar conductors, which when heated or
cooled so as to establish a differential temperature, as referred to the temperature of the
other junction, produces potential difference and an electric current.

Thermo-electric Pile, Differential. A thermo-electric pile arranged to have opposite faces
subjected to different sources of heat to determine the identity or difference of temperature
of the two sources of heat. It corresponds in use to a differential air thermometer.

Thermo-electric Power. The coefficient which, multiplying the difference of temperature of
the ends of a thermo-electric couple, gives the potential difference, expressed in micro-volts.
It has always to be assigned to a mean or average temperature of the junctions, because the
potential difference due to a fixed difference of temperature between two metals varies with
the average temperature of the two junctions. (See Thermo-electric Diagram.)

For bismuth and antimony at 19.5° C. (67.1° F.) it is 103 microvolts per degree Centigrade
(1.8° F.). This means that if one junction is heated to 19° C. and the other to 20° C. (66.2°
F. and 68.0° F.) a potential difference of 103 micro-volts will be produced.

The potential difference is approximately proportional to the difference of temperature of
the two junctions if such difference is small. Hence for large differences of potential the
thermo-electric power coefficient does not apply.

As a differential function it is thus deduced by Sir William Thomson, for expressing the E.
M. F. in a thermo-electric circuit: If a circuit is formed of two metals with the junctions
at indefinitely near temperatures, t and t + dt, and dE is the E. M. F. of the circuit, then
the differential coefficient dE/dt is called the thermo-electric power of the two metals for
the temperature t.

534   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thermo-electric Series. The arrangement of possible thermoelectric elements, q. v., in a table
in the order of their relative polarity. Bismuth and antimony form a couple in which when their
junction is heated the bismuth acts as the positive or negatively charged element and antimony
as the negative or positively charged. Between these two extremes according to Seebeck the
series runs as follows:

  Antimony,   Silver,      Copper,
  Arsenic,    Gold,        Platinum,
  Iron,       Molybdenum,  Palladium,
  Steel,      Tin,         Cobalt,
  Cadmium,    Lead,        Nickel,
  Tungsten,   Mercury,     Bismuth.
  Zinc,       Manganese,

A differential temperature of 1° C. (1.8° F.) in a bismuth-antimony couple maintains a potential
difference of 103 micro-volts.

Matthiessen gives a different series; it is arranged in two columns; the
first column has positive coefficients annexed the second has negative.
On subtracting the greater one from the lesser, which, if the two
elements are in different columns, of course amounts to adding after
changing the negative sign, the relative potential difference due to the
combination is obtained.
            +                           -
  Bismuth    25      Gas Coke          0.1
  Cobalt      9      Zinc              0.2
  Potassium   5.5    Cadmium           0.3
  Nickel      5      Strontium         2.0
  Sodium      3.     Arsenic           3.8
  Lead        1.03   Iron              5.2
  Tin         1      Red Phosphorous   9.6
  Copper      1      Antimony          9.8
  Silver      1      Tellurium       179.9
  Platinum    0.7    Selenium        290

Thus the relative E. M. F. of a bismuth-nickel couple, as both are in the + column, would be
25 - 5 = 20; that of a cobalt-iron couple, one being in the + column the other in the - column,
would be 9 + 5.2 = 14.2. Alloys are not always intermediate to their constituents, and small
amounts of impurities affect the results largely. This may account for the discrepancies of
different observers. Other compounds could be introduced into the series.

Artificial silver sulphide has been used by Becquerel in a thermo-electric battery.

535   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thermo-electric Thermometer. A species of differential thermometer. It consists of two thermo-electric
junctions connected in opposition with a galvanometer in the circuit. Any inequality of temperature
in the two ends or junctions produces a current shown by the galvanometer. It may be used to
determine the temperature of a distant place, one of the junctions being located there and
the other being under control of the operator. If the latter junction is heated until no current
is produced its temperature is evidently equal to that of the distant couple or junction. The
heating may be done with hot water or mercury, or other melted metal. The temperature of the
water, or other substance, gives the temperature of the distant place.

Thermolysis. Decomposition by heat; dissociation. All compound bodies are decomposable by heat
if it is intense enough. Hence at very elevated temperatures there can be no combustion.

Synonym--Dissociation.

Thermometer. An instrument for indicating the intensity of heat. Three scales of degrees of
heat are used in practise, the Fahrenheit, Réamur, and Centigrade, each of which is described
under its own title. (See Zero, Thermometric-Zero, Absolute.) The ordinary thermometer depends
on the expansion of mercury; in some cases alcohol is used. Besides these the compound bar
principle as used in the thermostat (see Thermostat, Electric) is employed.

Thermometer, Electric. (a) A thermometer whose indications are due to the change of resistance
in conductors with change of temperature. Two exactly similar resistance coils maybe electrically
balanced against each other. On exposing one to a source of heat, its resistance will change
and it will disturb the balance. The balance is restored by heating the other coil in a vessel
of water when the temperature of the water gives the temperature of both coils. The coils are
enclosed in water-tight metallic cases.

Synonym--Electric Resistance Thermometer.

(b) A differential thermometer may be made by connecting with a pair of conductors, two thermo-electric
couples in opposition to each other, and including a galvanometer in series. On heating the
junction of one couple more than that of the other a current at once goes through the galvanometer.

(c) (See Thermometer, Kinnersley's.)

Synonym--Thermo-electrometer.

536   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 334. KINNERSLEY'S THERMOMETER.

Thermometer, Kinnersley's. A thermo-electrometer. A large glass tube is mounted on a standard
and communicates with a small tube parallel to it. Water is poured in so as to rise in the
small tube. Two wires terminating in bulbs enter the large tube by its top and bottom. The
upper wire can be adjusted by moving up and down through a stuffing box. On discharging a Leyden
jar through the space between the knobs on the two wires the water for a moment rises in the
small tube. There is little or no accuracy in the instrument. It is allied to the electric
mortar (see Mortar, Electric) as a demonstrative apparatus.

Synonyms--Electric Thermometer--Thermo-electrometer.

Thermo-multiplier. A thermo-electric battery including a number of couples. The term is generally
applied to a small battery with its similar junctions facing in one direction and used for
repeating Melloni's experiments on radiant energy, or so-called radiant heat.

537   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thermophone. An apparatus for reproducing sounds telephonically by the agency of heat; a receiving
telephone actuated by heat. Thus a wire may be attached to the centre of a diaphragm and kept
in tension therefrom, and the transmitting telephone current may be caused to pass through
it. The wire changes in temperature and consequently in length with the pulses of current going
through it and vibrates the diaphragm, reproducing the sound. It is to be distinguished from
the thermo-electric telephone which involves the action of potential difference produced by
thermo-electric action.

Thermostat, Electric. A thermostat or apparatus, similar to a thermometer in some cases, for
closing an electric circuit when heated. It is used in connection with automatic fire alarms
to give warning of fire. For this use a temperature of 52° C. (125° F.) is an approved one
for setting one at, to complete the circuit. It is also applied to regulation of temperature,
as in incubators.

(a) One kind of thermostat consists of a compound bar wound into a spiral and fastened at one
end, to which a terminal of a circuit is connected. The bar may be made of two strips of brass
and iron riveted together, and wound into a spiral. When such a bar is submitted to changes
of temperature it bends in different directions, because brass expands and contracts more under
changes of temperature than does iron. A contact point, to which the other terminal is connected,
is arranged to make contact with the spiral at any desired degree of temperature, thus closing
an electric circuit and ringing a bell, opening or closing a damper, or doing anything else
to notify an attendant or to directly change the temperature.

If the brass forms the outside of the spiral, increase of temperature makes the bending of
the spiral bring the coils still closer. If the brass forms the inside, increase of temperature
makes the spiral tend to become less close. As shown in the cut, the brass should lie along
the inside of the spiral.

Sometimes a straight compound bar is used, one of whose ends is fastened and the other is free.
As the temperature changes such a bar curves more or less, its free end moving to and fro.
Two contact screws are provided, one on each side of its free end. If the temperature falls
it makes contact with one of these; if the temperature rises, it makes contact with the other.
Thus it may close one of two circuits, one for a fall and the other for a rise in temperature.

It is well to introduce a third bar between the brass and iron ones, made of some material
of intermediate coefficient of expansion.

(b) Another kind of thermostat comprises a vessel of air or other gas, which, expanding by
heat, actuates a piston or other device and closes an electric circuit. Synonym--Electro-pneumatic
Thermostat.

(c) Another form utilizes the expansion of mercury. The mercury is made part of an open electric
circuit. As it expands it comes in contact with the other terminal of the circuit, thus completing
it, when the current gives an alarm or does as is provided for in the apparatus employed.

Thermostats may be worked on either open or closed circuits; normally the circuit may be open
as described and may close on rise of temperature, or it may be normally closed and open as
the temperature rises.

Fig. 335. ELECTRIC THERMOSTAT.

538   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Thomson Effect. In an unequally heated conductor the differential heating is either increased
as in iron, or diminished as in copper by a current. In lead the phenomenon does not occur.
It is termed the Thomson effect. It is intimately related to the Peltier effect.

In a thermo-electric couple a heated junction is the source of electro-motive force, if heated
more than other parts of the circuit. The current in a copper-iron junction flows from the
copper to the iron across the heated junction. A hot section of an iron conductor next to a
cold section of the same is a source of thermoelectricity, in the sense that the hot section
is negative to the colder. A current passing from the hot to the cold iron travels against
rising potentials, and cools the iron in the cooler parts. As it passes to the hotter parts
it travels against falling potentials and hence heats the iron in these parts. In this way
a current intensifies differential heating in an iron conductor.

In copper the reverse obtains. In it the thermo-electric relations of hot and cold copper are
the reverse of those of iron, and a current tends to bring all parts of a differentially heated
copper conductor to an identical temperature.

As a current travels in iron from hot to cold it absorbs heat; in copper traveling from cold
to hot it absorbs heat.

The convection of heat by a current of electricity in unequally heated iron is negative, for
it is opposed to that convection of heat which would be brought about by the flow of water
through an unequally heated tube. In copper, on the other hand, the electric convection of
heat is positive. (Daniell.)

The above effects of the electric current upon an unequally heated conductor are termed the
Thomson effects. In iron, at low red heat, they are reversed and are probably again reversed
at higher temperatures.

539   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Three Wire System. A system of distribution of electric current for multiple arc or constant
potential service. It is the invention of Thomas A. Edison.

It includes three main wires which start from the central station or generating plant, and
ramify with corresponding reduction in size, everywhere through the district or building to
be lighted. As ordinarily carried out when dynamos are used, the dynamos are arranged in groups
of two. One lateral lead starts from the negative binding post of one dynamo. The positive
terminal of this dynamo connects to the negative of the other. Between the two dynamos the
central or neutral lead is connected. The other lateral lead starts from the positive binding
post of the second dynamo.

The lamps or other appliances are calculated for the potential difference of a single dynamo.
They are arranged between the neutral wire and the laterals, giving as even a disposition as
possible to the two laterals.

Fig. 336. DIAGRAM OF THREE WIRE SYSTEM SHOWING NEUTRAL WIRE.

If evenly arranged and all burning or using current, no current goes through the neutral wire.
If all the lamps situated on one lateral are on open circuit all the current goes through the
neutral wire. In other cases the neutral wire receives the excess of current only.

The advantages of the system are that it uses smaller wire than the two wire system for lamps
of the same voltage. If lamps of double the voltage were used the two wire system would be
most economical.

540   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Four wire and five wire systems have been more or less used, based on identical considerations,
and involving in each case the coupling of three or of four dynamos respectively, or else employing
a dynamo with special armature connections to give the requisite three-fold or four-fold division
of total potential. In the five wire system the total voltage is four times that of a single
lamp, the lamps are arranged four in series across the leads and the central wire is the only
one that can be considered a neutral wire. When lamps are burning entirely from three side-leads
they constitute a sort of three wire system by themselves, and their central wire may for the
time be a neutral wire.

In some of the three wire mains, especially in the larger sizes, the neutral wire is made of
much smaller section than that of a lateral conductor, because in extensive districts it is
practically impossible that the current should be concentrated in the neutral wire.

Throw. In a galvanometer the instantaneous deflection of the needle when the contact or closing
of the circuit is instantaneous, or when the discharge is completed before the needle begins
to move. The throw of the needle is the datum sought when the ballistic galvanometer is used.

Synonym--Elongation.

Throw-back Indicator. A drop annunciator, whose shutter or drop is electrically replaced.

Thrust-bearings. Bearings to support the end-thrust or push of a shaft. In disc armatures where
the field-magnets attract the armatures in the direction of their axis of rotation, thrust-bearings
have to be provided. In ordinary cylinder or drum armatures end-thrust is not applied, as a
little end motion to and fro is considered advantageous as causing more even wear of the commutator
surface.

Thunder. The violent report which, as we hear it, succeeds the lightning flash in stormy weather.
It is really produced simultaneously with the lightning and is supposed to arise from disturbance
of the air by the discharge. The rolling noise has been attributed to successive reflections
between clouds and earth, and to series of discharges reaching the ear from different distances
and through air of varying density. The subject is obscure. By timing the interval from lightning
flash to the report of the thunder an approximate estimate of the distance of the seat of discharge
can be made. The first sound of the thunder should be timed. An almost concurrence of thunder
and lightning indicates immediate proximity of the discharge.

Ticker. A colloquial name for a stock or market report automatic printing telegraph, which
prints its quotations and messages on a long tape.

541   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Time Constant. (a) When current is first turned into a circuit of considerable self-induction
it is resisted rather by the inductance than by the resistance. It is governed by the ratio
of resistance and self-induction and this factor represents the time which it takes for the
current to reach a definite fraction of its final strength. This fraction is (2.7183 - 1)/2.7183
or 0.63. 2.7183 is the base of the Napierian system of logarithms. Thus if in any circuit we
divide the inductance in henries by the resistance in ohms, the ratio gives the time-constant
of the circuit, or it expresses the time which it will take for the current to reach 0.63 of
its final value.

(b) In a static condenser the time required for the charge to fall to 1/2.7183th part of its
original value.

Time Cut-outs. Cut-outs which automatically cut storage batteries out of the charging circuit
when they are sufficiently charged.

Time-fall. In a secondary battery the decrease with use of electromotive force maintained by
a primary or secondary battery. As the battery becomes spent its voltage falls. The conditions
of the fall are represented by its discharging curve. (See Curve, Discharging.)

Time-reaction. A term in electro-therapeutics; the period of time occupied in the passage of
the effects of an electric current from nerve to muscle.

Time-rise. In a secondary battery the increase of electromotive force produced during the charging
process. Its rate and conditions are graphically shown in the charging curve. (See Curve, Charging.)

Tin. A metal; one of the elements; symbol, Sn; atomic weight, 117.8; equivalent, 58.9 and 29.5;
valency, 2 and 4; specific gravity, 7.3. It is a conductor of electricity.

  Relative resistance, compressed, (Silver = 1)   8.784
  Specific resistance at 0° C. (32° F.),   13.21   microhms.
  (c) 1 meter long, weighing 1 gram,        .9632   "
  (d) 1 meter long, 1 millimeter thick,     .1682   "
  Resistance of a 1 inch cube at 0° C. (32° F.),   5.202   microhms.
  Percentage of variation in resistance
    per degree C. (1.8° F.), at about 20° C. (68° F.),  .0365
  Electro-chemical equivalent (hydrogen = .0105),   .619   mgs.
                                                    .310   "

542   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Tinnitus, Telephone. A nervous affection of the ear, of the order of professional cramp; it
is attributed to too much use of the telephone.

Tin Sounders. A recent addition to the single needle telegraph. (See Telegraph, Single Needle.)
It consists of small tin plates, cut and bent, and so fitted in pairs to the instrument, that
the needle as deflected strikes one or the other on its right and left hand movements. The
sounders can be made to give sufficiently distinctive sounds to make sound-reading, q. v.,
possible. Commercial tin plate, which is really tinned iron, seems to give the best results.

Fig. 337. TIN SOUNDERS.

Tissandier's Solution.
A solution for bichromate batteries. It is composed as follows:
  Water,                100 parts by weight
  potassium bichromate,  16 parts
  66° sulphuric acid,    37 parts.

Tongue of Polarized Relay. The German silver extension of the vibrating or oscillating member
of a polarized relay, corresponding to the armature of an ordinary relay.

Tongue of Polarized Relay, Bias of. In a Siemens' polarized relay the pole pieces are adjustable
so that they may be brought nearer to or withdrawn from the tongue. One of the poles is adjusted
so as to be nearer the tongue. This one-sided adjustment is the bias. Its effect is that when
the relay is unexcited this pole attracts the armature so that it normally is drawn towards
it. This ensures the normal contact of the tongue either with the contact point, or with the
insulated stop piece or adjustment screw. Without bias the armature remains in contact with
or drawn towards whichever pole it was last attracted to. In its usual use a bias is given it.

Top, Magnetic. A toy illustrating magnetic attraction. It consists of a disc or body of lead
or other material, through which a magnetized steel spindle pointed at its lower end is thrust.
A number of short pieces of iron wire are used with it. It is spun like an ordinary top upon
the point of the spindle and one of the pieces of iron wire is laid by the side of its point.
As it turns the magnetic adherence causes the piece of wire to be carried along in one direction
by the rotation of the spindle, until the end is reached, when it goes over to the other side
of the spindle and travels back again.

By using bent pieces of wire of various shapes the most curious effects are produced. Circles
and S shaped pieces give good effects. To increase the mysterious effect covered iron wire
(bonnet wire) may be employed.

Fig. 338. MAGNETIC TOP.

543   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Torpedo, Electric. (a) A fish, the Raia Torpedo, which possesses the power of giving electric
shocks. (See Ray, Electric.)

(b) An instrument of war; a torpedo whose operations include electrical discharge or other
electric function or factor of operation.

Torpedo, Sims-Edison. A torpedo driven by an electric motor, and also steered by electricity.
Its motions are all controlled from the shore. The torpedo proper is carried some distance
below the surface of the water by a vessel immediately above it, from which it is suspended
by two rigid bars. In the torpedo is a cable reel on which the conducting cable is disposed.
An electric motor and controlling gear are also contained within the torpedo. In its front
the explosive is placed. It is driven by a screw propeller actuated by the electric motor.
As it moves it pays out cable so that it has no cable to draw after it through the water, the
cable lying stationary in the water behind it. This avoids frictional resistance to its motion.
The maintenance of the torpedo at a proper depth is one of the advantages of the system.

544   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Torque. A force tending to produce torsion around an axis. An example is the pulling or turning
moment of an armature of an electric motor upon its shaft. It is often expressed as pounds
of pull excited at the end of a lever arm one foot long.

The expression is due to Prof. James Thompson, then of the University of Glasgow.

"Just as the Newtonian definition of force is that which produces or tends to produce motion
(along a line), so torque may be defined as that which produces or tends to produce torsion
(around an axis). It is better to use a term which treats this action as a single definite
entity than to use terms like 'couple' and 'moment,' which suggest more complex ideas." (S.
P. Thompson.)

A force, acting with radius r gives a torque equal to f X r ;  f and r may be expressed in
any units. S. P. Thompson gives the following equivalents :

To reduce
  dyne-centimeters to gram centimeters, divide by   981
  dyne-centimeters to meter-kilograms   divide by   981E5
  dyne-centimeter, to pound-feet        divide by   13.56E6
  pound-feet to meter-kilograms         divide by   7.23

In each of these compound units the first unit is the force and the second unit is the radius
or lever arm of the torque.

Synonyms--Turning Moment--Moment of Couple--Axial Couple--Angular Force--Axial Force.

Torsion Balance, Coulomb's. Originally an apparatus in which electrostatic attraction or repulsion
is measured against the torsion of a filament, often of silk-worm cocoon fibre. It consists
in one form of a cylindrical glass vessel in which a light shellac needle is suspended horizontally
by a fibre. This needle carries at one end a gilded disc or sphere and is suspended by a fine
wire, or filament. A proof plane, q. v., is excited by touching it to the body under trial;
it is then inserted in the case. The disc on the needle is first attracted and then repelled.
The position finally taken by the needle is noted. The force of torsion thus produced is determined
by twisting the filament by the torsion head on the top of the apparatus so as to move the
needle a certain distance towards the proof plane. The more the torsion-head has to be turned
to carry the needle through a specified arc the greater is the torsion effected or the greater
is the repulsion exerted, The torsional force of a wire is proportional to the angle of torsion;
this gives the basis for the measurement.

With magnetic needle it is used to measure magnetic repulsion and attraction. The best material
for the filament is quartz, but the instrument is not very much used.

Torsion Galvanometer. A galvanometer in which the torsion required to bring the index back
to zero, when the current tends to displace it, is made the measure of the current strength
or of the electro-motive force. It involves the use of a torsion head, q. v., or its equivalent.

545   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Torsion Head. The handle and disc from whose undersurface the filament depends to which the
needle or magnet is attached. It is turned to measure the torsional effect, the edge of the
disc being marked or graduated so as to give the angle of deflection required to overcome the
effect of the torque of the needle.

Torsion Suspension. Suspension by one or more wires, fibres, or ribands, involving the restitutive
force of torsion. Thus fibre suspension, q. v., is a variety of torsion suspension.

Often a single riband of steel stretched horizontally and secured at both ends is used, the
suspended object, e. g., a balance beam, being attached at its own centre to the centre of
the stretched riband. Quite sensitive balances are constructed on this principle. It is peculiarly
available where an electric current is to be transmitted, as absolute contact is secured, as
in William Thomson's ampere balances.

Touch. A term applied to methods of magnetization, as "single touch," "double touch," or "separate
touch," indicating how the poles of the inducing magnet or magnets are applied to the bar to
be magnetized. Under the titles of Magnetization the different methods are described.

Tourmaline. A mineral; a subsilicate; characterized by the presence of boric trioxide, which
replaces aluminum oxide. It is notable for possessing pyro-electric properties. (See Pyro-electricity.)

Tower, Electric. The tower used in the tower system, q. v., of arc light illumination.

Tower System. In electric lighting the system of lighting extended areas by powerful arc lamps
placed on high towers, generally of iron or steel frame-work. The lights are thus maintained
at a high elevation, giving greater uniformity of illumination than if they were lower, but
at the expense of considerable light which is lost. Sometimes wooden masts are employed instead
of towers.

The principle involved is that the intensity of light at any place given by a source of illumination
varies with the square of its distance from the place in question. Hence in using strong arc
lights it is an object to have the distances of all parts of the area illuminated at as nearly
uniform distances from the light as possible. An approximation to uniformity is secured by
placing the lamps at a very high elevation.

546   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Transformer. In alternate current lighting the induction coil by which the primary current
with high initial electro-motive force is caused to produce a secondary current with low initial
electromotive force.

A typical transformer consists of a core of thin iron sheets. The primary is of comparatively
thin wire and often of ten or more times as many turns as the secondary. The latter is of thicker
wire. Where the ratio of 10 to 1 as regards number of turns in the primary and secondary obtains,
the initial E. M. F. of the secondary is one-tenth that of the primary circuit.

The cores are laminated, as described, to avoid the formation of Foucault currents.

The counter-electro-motive force of the transformer when the secondary circuit is open, prevents
any but the slightest current from passing through the primary. In proportion as the secondary
is closed and its resistance diminished, as by lighting more lamps in parallel, the counter-electro-motive
force of the transformer falls and more current passes through the primary.

Fig. 339. FERRANTI'S TRANSFORMER.

The economy of the apparatus is in the fact that counter-electromotive force reduces current
through a conductor without absorbing any energy. A resistance coil cuts down a current, but
absorbs energy equal to the current multiplied by the potential difference between the terminals
of the coil. This electric energy is converted into heat energy and is wasted. But the counter-electromotive
force of a transformer is exerted to reduce current without production of heat and with little
waste of energy. This is one of the advantages of the alternating current system of distribution
of electric energy.

The object of a transformer being to secure safety to the person or to life by the separation
of the high potential primary or street circuit, and the low potential house circuit, any contact
of the two circuits in the converter is a source of danger. Special care should be taken to
ensure absence of leakage, as it is termed. Mica or other insulation is sometimes employed
to prevent the wires from coming in contact by piercing or sparking with the core and with
each other.

547   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Transformer, Commuting. A type of continuous current transformer, resembling a dynamo with
armature and field both stationary, but with revolving commutator, by which the magnetic polarity
of a double wound armature is made to rotate. This secures the desired action, of a change
or lowering of potential.

Transformer, Continuous Alternating. An apparatus for transforming a continuous into an alternating
current or the reverse. The combination of a continuous current dynamo with an alternating
current one is sometimes employed. It is a form of motor dynamo.

Another type is a regular dynamo with ordinary commutator and with, in addition thereto, two,
three or four contact rings, connecting to as many symmetrically disposed points in the winding
of the armature. This will give out or receive alternating currents of two, three or four phases
according to the number of collecting rings. One winding serves for both alternating and continuous
currents.

Transformer, Continuous Current. A machine of the dynamo type for changing the potential of
a circuit. In one form two armatures are mounted on one shaft in a single field or in separate
fields; one is a motor armature driven by the original current; the other generates the new
current. This is a motor dynamo. In 1874 Gramme constructed a machine with ring armature with
two windings, of coarse and fine wire respectively, and with independent commutators. Such
dynamo could transform currents up or down.

Continuous current transformers have attained an efficiency of 83 per cent. at full load, and
of 75 per cent. at half load. Owing to the balancing of the self-inductions of the two windings
these machines do not spark. As the driven and driving parts are contained in one rotating
part their friction is very slight.

