    "Jehovyah, Hallelujah! De Lord He will purvide!
    Jehovyah, Hallelujah! De Lord He will purvide!"

They repeat the words many times. "De foxes hab holes," and the succeeding lines, are sung
in the most touching, mournful tones; and then the chorus--"Jehovyah, Hallelujah"--swells forth
triumphantly, in glad contrast.

Christmas night, the children came in and had several grand shouts. They were too happy to
keep still.

"Oh, Miss, all I want to do is to sing and shout!" said our little pet, Amaretta. And sing
and shout she did, to her heart's content.

She read nicely, and was very fond of books. The tiniest children are delighted to get a book
in their hands. Many of them already know their letters. The parents are eager to have them
learn. They sometimes said to me,--

"Do, Miss, let de chil'en learn eberyting dey can. We nebber hab no chance to learn nuttin',
but we wants de chil'en to learn."

They are willing to make many sacrifices that their children may attend school. One old woman,
who had a large family of children and grandchildren, came regularly to school in the winter,
and took her seat among the little ones. She was at least sixty years old. Another woman--who
had one of the best faces I ever saw--came daily, and brought her baby in her arms. It happened
to be one of the best babies in the world, a perfect little "model of deportment," and allowed
its mother to pursue her studies without interruption.

While taking charge of the store, one day, one of the men who came in told me a story which
interested me much. He was a carpenter, living on this island, and just before the capture
of Port Royal had been taken by his master to the mainland,--"the Main," as the people call
it,--to assist in building some houses which were to shelter the families of the Rebels in
case the "Yankees" should come. The master afterward sent him back to the island, providing
him with a pass, to bring away a boat and some of the people. On his arrival he found that
the Union troops were in possession, and determined to remain here with his family instead
of returning to his master. Some of his fellow-servants, who had been left on "the Main," hearing
that the Federal troops had come, resolved to make their escape to the islands. They found
a boat of their master's, out of which a piece six feet square had been cut. In the night they
went to the boat, which had been sunk in a creek near the house, measured the hole, and, after
several nights' work in the woods, made a piece large enough to fit in. They then mended and
sank it again, as they had found it. The next night five of them embarked. They had a perilous
journey, often passing quite near the enemy's boats. They travelled at night, and in the day
ran close up to the shore out of sight. Sometimes they could hear the hounds, which had been
sent in pursuit of them, baying in the woods. Their provisions gave out, and they were nearly
exhausted. At last they succeeded in passing all the enemy's boats, and reached one of our
gun-boats in safety. They were taken on board and kindly cared for, and then sent to this island,
where their families, who had no hope of ever seeing them again, welcomed them with great rejoicing.

We were also told the story of two girls, one about ten, the other fifteen, who, having been
taken by their master up into the country, on the mainland, at the time of the capture of the
islands, determined to try to escape to their parents, who had been left on this island. They
stole away at night, and travelled through woods and swamps for two days, without eating. Sometimes
their strength gave out, and they would sink down, thinking they could go no farther; but they
had brave little hearts, and got up again and struggled on, till at last they reached Port-Royal
Ferry, in a state of utter exhaustion. They were seen there by a boat-load of people who were
also making their escape. The boat was too full to take them in; but the people, on reaching
this island, told the children's father of their whereabouts, and he immediately took a boat,
and hastened to the ferry. The poor little creatures were almost wild with joy when they saw
him. When they were brought to their mother, she fell down "jes' as if she was dead,"--so our
informant expressed it,--overpowered with joy on beholding the "lost who were found."

       *       *       *       *       *

New-Year's-Day--Emancipation-Day--was a glorious one to us. The morning was quite cold, the
coldest we had experienced; but we were determined to go to the celebration at Camp Saxton,--the
camp of the First Regiment South-Carolina Volunteers,--whither the General and Colonel Higginson
had bidden us, on this, "the greatest day in the nation's history." We enjoyed perfectly the
exciting scene on board the Flora. There was an eager, wondering crowd of the freed people
in their holiday-attire, with the gayest of head-handkerchiefs, the whitest of aprons, and
the happiest of faces. The band was playing, the flags streaming, everybody talking merrily
and feeling strangely happy. The sun shone brightly, the very waves seemed to partake of the
universal gayety, and danced and sparkled more joyously than ever before. Long before we reached
Camp Saxton we could see the beautiful grove, and the ruins of the old Huguenot fort near it.
Some companies of the First Regiment were drawn up in line under the trees, near the landing,
to receive us. A fine, soldierly-looking set of men; their brilliant dress against the trees
(they were then wearing red pantaloons) invested them with a semi-barbaric splendor. It was
my good fortune to find among the officers an old friend,--and what it was to meet a friend
from the North, in our isolated Southern life, no one can imagine who has not experienced the
pleasure. Letters were an unspeakable luxury,--we hungered for them, we could never get enough;
but to meet old friends,--that was "too much, too much," as the people here say, when they
are very much in earnest. Our friend took us over the camp, and showed us all the arrangements.
Everything looked clean and comfortable, much neater, we were told, than in most of the white
camps. An officer told us that he had never seen a regiment in which the men were so honest.
"In many other camps," said he, "the colonel and the rest of us would find it necessary to
place a guard before our tents. We never do it here. They are left entirely unguarded. Yet
nothing has ever been touched." We were glad to know that. It is a remarkable fact, when we
consider that these men have all their lives been slaves; and we know what the teachings of
Slavery are.

The celebration took place in the beautiful grove of live-oaks adjoining the camp. It was the
largest grove we had seen. I wish it were possible to describe fitly the scene which met our
eyes as we sat upon the stand, and looked down on the crowd before us. There were the black
soldiers in their blue coats and scarlet pantaloons, the officers of this and other regiments
in their handsome uniforms, and crowds of lookers-on,--men, women, and children, of every complexion,
grouped in various attitudes under the moss-hung trees. The faces of all wore a happy, interested
look. The exercises commenced with a prayer by the chaplain of the regiment. An ode, written
for the occasion by Professor Zachos, was read by him, and then sung. Colonel Higginson then
introduced Dr. Brisbane, who read the President's Proclamation, which was enthusiastically
cheered. Rev. Mr. French presented to the Colonel two very elegant flags, a gift to the regiment
from the Church of the Puritans, accompanying them by an appropriate and enthusiastic speech.
At its conclusion, before Colonel Higginson could reply, and while he still stood holding the
flags in his hand, some of the colored people, of their own accord, commenced singing, "My
Country, 'tis of thee." It was a touching and beautiful incident, and sent a thrill through
all our hearts. The Colonel was deeply moved by it. He said that that reply was far more effective
than any speech he could make. But he did make one of those stirring speeches which are "half
battles." All hearts swelled with emotion as we listened to his glorious words,--"stirring
the soul like the sound of a trumpet."

His soldiers are warmly attached to him, and he evidently feels towards them all as if they
were his children. The people speak of him as "the officer who never leaves his regiment for
pleasure," but devotes himself, with all his rich gifts of mind and heart, to their interests.
It is not strange that his judicious kindness, ready sympathy, and rare fascination of manner
should attach them to him strongly. He is one's ideal of an officer. There is in him much of
the grand, knightly spirit of the olden time,--scorn of all that is mean and ignoble, pity
for the weak, chivalrous devotion to the cause of the oppressed.

General Saxton spoke also, and was received with great enthusiasm. Throughout the morning,
repeated cheers were given for him by the regiment, and joined in heartily by all the people.
They know him to be one of the best and noblest men in the world. His Proclamation for Emancipation-Day
we thought, if possible, even more beautiful than the Thanksgiving Proclamation.

At the close of Colonel Higginson's speech he presented the flags to the color-bearers, Sergeant
Rivers and Sergeant Sutton, with an earnest charge, to which they made appropriate replies.
We were particularly pleased with Robert Sutton, who is a man of great natural intelligence,
and whose remarks were simple, eloquent, and forcible.

Mrs. Gage also uttered some earnest words; and then the regiment sang "John Brown" with much
spirit. After the meeting we saw the dress-parade, a brilliant and beautiful sight. An officer
told us that the men went through the drill remarkably well,--that the ease and rapidity with
which they learned the movements were wonderful. To us it seemed strange as a miracle,--this
black regiment, the first mustered into the service of the United States, doing itself honor
in the sight of the officers of other regiments, many of whom, doubtless, "came to scoff."
The men afterwards had a great feast, ten oxen having been roasted whole for their especial
benefit.

We went to the landing, intending to take the next boat for Beaufort; but finding it very much
crowded, waited for another. It was the softest, loveliest moonlight; we seated ourselves on
the ruined wall of the old fort; and when the boat had got a short distance from the shore
the band in it commenced playing "Sweet Home." The moonlight on the water, the perfect stillness
around, the wildness and solitude of the ruins, all seemed to give new pathos to that ever
dear and beautiful old song. It came very near to all of us,--strangers in that strange Southern
land. After a while we retired to one of the tents,--for the night-air, as usual, grew dangerously
damp,--and, sitting around the bright wood-fire, enjoyed the brilliant and entertaining conversation.
Very unwilling were we to go home; for, besides the attractive society, we knew that the soldiers
were to have grand shouts and a general jubilee that night. But the Flora was coming, and we
were obliged to say a reluctant farewell to Camp Saxton and the hospitable dwellers therein,
and hasten to the landing. We promenaded the deck of the steamer, sang patriotic songs, and
agreed that moonlight and water had never looked so beautiful as on that night. At Beaufort
we took the row-boat for St. Helena; and the boatmen, as they rowed, sang some of their sweetest,
wildest hymns. It was a fitting close to such a day. Our hearts were filled with an exceeding
great gladness; for, although the Government had left much undone, we knew that Freedom was
surely born in our land that day. It seemed too glorious a good to realize,--this beginning
of the great work we had so longed and prayed for.

       *       *       *       *       *

L. and I had one day an interesting visit to a plantation about six miles from ours. The house
is beautifully situated in the midst of noble pine-trees, on the banks of a large creek. The
place was owned by a very wealthy Rebel family, and is one of the pleasantest and healthiest
on the island. The vicinity of the pines makes it quite healthy. There were a hundred and fifty
people on it,--one hundred of whom had come from Edisto Island at the time of its evacuation
by our troops. There were not houses enough to accommodate them, and they had to take shelter
in barns, out-houses, or any other place they could find. They afterwards built rude dwellings
for themselves, which did not, however, afford them much protection in bad weather. The superintendent
told us that they were well-behaved and industrious. One old woman interested us greatly. Her
name was Daphne; she was probably more than a hundred years old; had had fifty grandchildren,
sixty-five great-grandchildren, and three great-great-grandchildren. Entirely blind, she yet
seemed very cheerful and happy. She told us that she was brought with her parents from Africa
at the time of the Revolution. A bright, happy old face was hers, and she retained her faculties
remarkably well. Fifteen of the people had escaped from the mainland in the previous spring.
They were pursued, and one of them was overtaken by his master in the swamps. A fierce grapple
ensued,--the master on horseback, the man on foot. The former drew a pistol and shot his slave
through the arm, shattering it dreadfully. Still, the heroic man fought desperately, and at
last succeeded in unhorsing his master, and beating him until he was senseless. He then made
his escape, and joined the rest of the party.

One of the most interesting sights we saw was a baptism among the people. On one Sunday there
were a hundred and fifty baptized in the creek near the church. They looked very picturesque
in their white aprons and bright frocks and handkerchiefs. As they marched in procession down
to the river's edge, and during the ceremony, the spectators, with whom the banks were crowded,
sang glad, triumphant songs. The freed people on this island are all Baptists.

We were much disappointed in the Southern climate. We found it much colder than we had expected,--quite
cold enough for as thick winter clothing as one would wear at the North. The houses, heated
only by open fires, were never comfortably warm. In the floor of our sitting-room there was
a large crack through which we could see the ground beneath; and through this and the crevices
of the numerous doors and windows the wind came chillingly. The church in which we taught school
was particularly damp and cold. There was no chimney, and we could have no fire at all. Near
the close of the winter a stove came for us, but it could not be made to draw; we were nearly
suffocated with smoke, and gave it up in despair. We got so thoroughly chilled and benumbed
within, that for several days we had school out-of-doors, where it was much warmer. Our school-room
was a pleasant one,--for ceiling the blue sky above, for walls the grand old oaks with their
beautiful moss-drapery,--but the dampness of the ground made it unsafe for us to continue the
experiment.

At a later period, during a few days' visit to some friends living on the Milne Plantation,
then the head-quarters of the First South-Carolina, which was on picket-duty at Port-Royal
Ferry, we had an opportunity of seeing something of Port-Royal Island. We had pleasant rides
through the pine barrens. Indeed, riding on horseback was our chief recreation at the South,
and we enjoyed it thoroughly. The "Secesh" horses, though small, poor, and mean-looking, when
compared with ours, are generally excellent for the saddle, well-trained and very easy. I remember
particularly one ride that we had while on Port-Royal Island. We visited the Barnwell Plantation,
one of the finest places on the island. It is situated on Broad River. The grounds are extensive,
and are filled with magnificent live-oaks, magnolias, and other trees. We saw one noble old
oak, said to be the largest on these islands. Some of the branches have been cut off, but the
remaining ones cover an area of more than a hundred feet in circumference. We rode to a point
whence the Rebels on the opposite side of the river are sometimes to be seen. But they were
not visible that day; and we were disappointed in our long-cherished hope of seeing a "real
live Rebel." On leaving the plantation, we rode through a long avenue of oaks,--the moss-hung
branches forming a perfect arch over our heads,--and then for miles through the pine barrens.
There was an Italian softness in the April air. Only a low, faint murmur--hardly "the slow
song of the sea"--could be heard among the pines. The ground was thickly carpeted with ferns
of a vivid green. We found large violets, purple and white, and azaleas of a deeper pink and
heavier fragrance than ours. It was leaving Paradise, to emerge from the beautiful woods upon
the public road,--the shell-road which runs from Beaufort to the Ferry. Then we entered a by-way
leading to the plantation, where we found the Cherokee rose in all its glory. The hedges were
white with it; it canopied the trees, and hung from their branches its long sprays of snowy
blossoms and dark, shining leaves, forming perfect arches, and bowers which seemed fitting
places for fairies to dwell in. How it gladdened our eyes and hearts! It was as if all the
dark shadows that have so long hung over this Southern land had flitted away, and, in this
garment of purest white, it shone forth transfigured, beautified, forevermore.

On returning to the house, we were met by the exciting news that the Rebels were bringing up
pontoon-bridges, and were expected to attempt crossing over near the Ferry, which was only
two or three miles from us. Couriers came in every few moments with various reports. A superintendent
whose plantation was very near the Ferry had been watching through his glass the movements
on the opposite side, and reported that the Rebels were gathering in large force, and evidently
preparing for some kind of demonstration. A messenger was despatched to Beaufort for reinforcements,
and for some time we were in a state of expectancy, not entirely without excitement, but entirely
without fear. The officers evidently enjoyed the prospect of a fight. One of them assured me
that I should have the pleasure of seeing a Rebel shell during the afternoon. It was proposed
that the women should be sent into Beaufort in an ambulance; against which ignoble treatment
we indignantly protested, and declared our intention of remaining at our post, if the Colonel
would consent; and finally, to our great joy, the best of colonels did consent that we should
remain, as he considered it quite safe for us to do so. Soon a light battery arrived, and during
the evening a brisk firing was kept up. We could hear the explosion of the shells. It was quite
like being in the war; and as the firing was principally on our side, and the enemy was getting
the worst of it, we rather enjoyed it. For a little while the Colonel read to us, in his spirited
way, some of the stirring "Lays of the Old Cavaliers." It was just the time to appreciate them
thoroughly, and he was of all men the fittest person to read them. But soon came a courier,
"in hot haste," to make report of the doings without, and the reading was at an end. In the
midst of the firing, Mrs. D. and I went to bed, and slept soundly until morning. We learned
afterward that the Rebels had not intended to cross over, but were attempting to take the guns
off one of our boats, which they had sunk a few days previous. The timely arrival of the battery
from Beaufort prevented them from accomplishing their purpose.

       *       *       *       *       *

In April we left Oaklands, which had always been considered a particularly unhealthy place
during the summer, and came to "Seaside," a plantation on another and healthier part of the
island. The place contains nearly a hundred people. The house is large and comparatively comfortable.
Notwithstanding the name, we have not even a distant glimpse of the sea, although we can sometimes
hear its roar. At low tide there is not a drop of water to be seen,--only dreary stretches
of marsh-land, reminding us of the sad outlook of Mariana in the Moated Grange,--

    "The level waste and rounding gray."

But at night we have generally a good sea-breeze, and during the hottest weather the air is
purer and more invigorating than in many parts of the island.

On this, as on several other large plantations, there is a "Praise-House," which is the special
property of the people. Even in the old days of Slavery, they were allowed to hold meetings
here; and they still keep up the custom. They assemble on several nights of the week, and on
Sunday afternoons. First, they hold what is called the "Praise-Meeting," which consists of
singing, praying, and preaching. We have heard some of the old negro preachers make prayers
that were really beautiful and touching. In these meetings they sing only the church-hymns
which the Northern ministers have taught them, and which are far less suited to their voices
than their own. At the close of the Praise-Meeting they all shake hands with each other in
the most solemn manner. Afterward, as a kind of appendix, they have a grand "shout," during
which they sing their own hymns. Maurice, an old blind man, leads the singing. He has a remarkable
voice, and sings with the greatest enthusiasm. The first shout that we witnessed in the Praise-House
impressed us very much. The large, gloomy room, with its blackened walls,--the wild, whirling
dance of the shouters,--the crowd of dark, eager faces gathered around,--the figure of the
old blind man, whose excitement could hardly be controlled, and whose attitude and gestures
while singing were very fine,--and over all, the red glare of the burning pine-knot, which
shed a circle of light around it, but only seemed to deepen and darken the shadows in the other
parts of the room,--these all formed a wild, strange, and deeply impressive picture, not soon
to be forgotten.

Maurice's especial favorite is one of the grandest hymns that we have yet heard:--

      "De tallest tree in Paradise
      De Christian calls de Tree ob Life,
      An' I hope dat trumpet blow me home
      To my New Jerusalem.

                   CHORUS.

    "Blow, Gabriel! trumpet, blow louder, louder!
    An' I hope dat trumpet blow me home
    To my New Jerusalem!

The chorus has a glad, triumphal sound, and in singing it the voice of old Maurice rings out
in wonderfully clear, trumpet-like tones. His blindness was caused by a blow on the head from
a loaded whip. He was struck by his master in a fit of anger. "I feel great distress when I
become blind," said Maurice; "but den I went to seek de Lord; and eber since I know I see in
de next world, I always hab great satisfaction." We are told that the master was not a "hard
man" except when in a passion, and then he seems to have been very cruel.

One of the women on the place, Old Bess, bears on her limbs many marks of the whip. Some of
the scars are three and four inches long. She was used principally as a house-servant. She
says, "Ebery time I lay de table I put cow-skin on one end, an' I git beatin' and thumpin'
all de time. Hab all kinds o' work to do, and sich a gang [of children] to look after! One
person couldn't git along wid so much work, so it go wrong, and den I git beatin'."

But the cruelty of Bess's master sinks into insignificance, when compared with the far-famed
wickedness of another slave-holder, known all over the island as "Old Joe Eddings." There seem
to have been no bounds to his cruelty and licentiousness; and the people tell tales of him
which make one shudder. We were once asking some questions about him of an old, half-witted
woman, a former slave of his. The look of horror and loathing which overspread her face was
perfectly indescribable, as, with upraised hands, she exclaimed, "What! Old Joe Eddings? Lord,
Missus, he second to none in de world but de Debil!" She had, indeed, good cause to detest
him; for, some years before, her daughter, a young black girl, maddened by his persecutions,
had thrown herself into the creek and been drowned, after having been severely beaten for refusing
to degrade herself. Outraged, despised, and black, she yet preferred death to dishonor. But
these are things too heart-sickening to dwell upon. God alone knows how many hundreds of plantations,
all over the South, might furnish a similar record.

       *       *       *       *       *

Early in June, before the summer heat had become unendurable, we made a pleasant excursion
to Edisto Island. We left St. Helena village in the morning, dined on one of the gun-boats
stationed near our island, and in the afternoon proceeded to Edisto in two row-boats. There
were six of us, besides an officer and the boats' crews, who were armed with guns and cutlasses.
There was no actual danger; but as we were going into the enemy's country, we thought it wisest
to guard against surprises. After a delightful row, we reached the island near sunset, landing
at a place called Eddingsville, which was a favorite summer resort with the aristocracy of
Edisto. It has a fine beach several miles in length. Along the beach there is a row of houses,
which must once have been very desirable dwellings, but have now a desolate, dismantled look.
The sailors explored the beach for some distance, and returned, reporting "all quiet, and nobody
to be seen"; so we walked on, feeling quite safe, stopping here and there to gather the beautiful
tiny shells which were buried deep in the sands.

We took supper in a room of one of the deserted houses, using for seats some old bureau-drawers
turned edgewise. Afterward we sat on the piazza, watching the lightning playing from a low,
black cloud over a sky flushed with sunset, and listening to the merry songs of the sailors
who occupied the next house. They had built a large fire, the cheerful glow of which shone
through the windows, and we could see them dancing, evidently in great glee. Later, we had
another walk on the beach, in the lovely moonlight. It was very quiet then. The deep stillness
was broken only by the low, musical murmur of the waves. The moon shone bright and clear over
the deserted houses and gardens, and gave them a still wilder and more desolate look.

We went within-doors for the night very unwillingly. Having, of course, no beds, we made ourselves
as comfortable as we could on the floor, with boat-cushions, blankets, and shawls. No fear
of Rebels disturbed us. There was but one road by which they could get to us, and on that a
watch was kept, and in case of their approach, we knew we should have ample time to get to
the boats and make our escape. So, despite the mosquitoes, we had a sound night's sleep.

The next morning we took the boats again, and followed the course of the most winding of little
creeks. In and out, in and out, the boats went. Sometimes it seemed as if we were going into
the very heart of the woods; and through the deep silence we half expected to hear the sound
of a Rebel rifle. The banks were overhung with a thick tangle of shrubs and bushes, which threatened
to catch our boats, as we passed close beneath their branches. In some places the stream was
so narrow that we ran aground, and then the men had to get out, and drag and pull with all
their might before we could be got clear again. After a row full of excitement and pleasure,
we reached our place of destination,--the Eddings Plantation, whither some of the freedmen
had preceded us in their search for corn. It must once have been a beautiful place. The grounds
were laid out with great taste, and filled with fine trees, among which we noticed particularly
the oleander, laden with deep rose-hued and deliciously fragrant flowers, and the magnolia,
with its wonderful, large blossoms, which shone dazzlingly white among the dark leaves. We
explored the house,--after it had first been examined by our guard, to see that no foes lurked
there,--but found nothing but heaps of rubbish, an old bedstead, and a bathing-tub, of which
we afterward made good use. When we returned to the shore, we found that the tide had gone
out, and between us and the boats lay a tract of marsh-land, which it would have been impossible
to cross without a wetting. The gentlemen determined on wading. But what were we to do? In
this dilemma somebody suggested the bathing-tub, a suggestion which was eagerly seized upon.
We were placed in it, one at a time, borne aloft in triumph on the shoulders of four stout
sailors, and safely deposited in the boat. But, through a mistake, the tub was not sent back
for two of the ladies, and they were brought over on the crossed hands of two of the sailors,
in the "carry-a-lady-to-London" style. Again we rowed through the windings of the creek, then
out into the open sea, among the white, exhilarating breakers,--reached the gun-boat, dined
again with its hospitable officers, and then returned to our island, which we reached after
nightfall, feeling thoroughly tired, but well pleased with our excursion.

From what we saw of Edisto, however, we did not like it better than our own island,--except,
of course, the beach; but we are told that farther in the interior it is much more beautiful.
The freed people, who left it at the time of its evacuation, think it the loveliest place in
the world, and long to return. When we were going, Miss T.--the much-loved and untiring friend
and physician of the people--asked some whom we met if we should give their love to Edisto.
"Oh, yes, yes, Miss!" they said. "Ah, Edisto a beautiful city!" And when we came back, they
inquired, eagerly,--"How you like Edisto? How Edisto stan'?" Only the fear of again falling
into the hands of the "Secesh" prevents them from returning to their much-loved home.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the summer advanced, the heat became intense. We found it almost overpowering, driving to
school near the middle of the day, as we were obliged to do. I gave up riding, and mounted
a sulky, such as a single gentleman drives in at the North. It was exceedingly high, and I
found it no small task to mount up into it. Its already very comical appearance was enhanced
by the addition of a cover of black India-rubber cloth, with which a friend kindly provided
me. Thus adorned, it looked like the skeleton of some strange creature surmounted by a huge
bonnet, and afforded endless amusement to the soldiers we chanced to meet, who hailed its appearance
with shouts of laughter, and cries of "Here comes the Calithumpian!" This unique vehicle, with
several others on our island, kindred, but not quite equal to it, would create a decided sensation
in the streets of a Northern city.

No description of life on these islands would be complete without a word concerning the fleas.
They appeared at the opening of spring, and kept constantly "risin'," as the people said, until
they reached a height the possibility of which we had never conceived. We had heard and read
of fleas. We had never realized them before. Words utterly fail to describe the tortures we
endured for months from these horrible little tyrants. Remembering our sufferings "through
weary day and weary night," we warn everybody not gifted with extraordinary powers of endurance
to beware of a summer on the Sea Islands.

Notwithstanding the heat, we determined to celebrate the Fourth of July as worthily as we could.
The freed people and the children of the different schools assembled in the grove near the
Baptist Church. The flag was hung across the road, between two magnificent live-oaks, and the
children, being grouped under it, sang "The Star-Spangled Banner" with much spirit. Our good
General could not come, but addresses were made by Mr. P.,--the noble-hearted founder of the
movement for the benefit of the people here, and from first to last their stanch and much-loved
friend,--by Mr. L., a young colored minister, and others. Then the people sang some of their
own hymns; and the woods resounded with the grand notes of "Roll, Jordan, roll." They all afterward
partook of refreshments, consisting of molasses and water,--a very great luxury to them,--and
hardtack.

Among the visitors present was the noble young Colonel Shaw, whose regiment was then stationed
on the island. We had met him a few nights before, when he came to our house to witness one
of the people's shouts. We looked upon him with the deepest interest. There was something in
his face finer, more exquisite, than one often sees in a man's face, yet it was full of courage
and decision. The rare and singular charm of his manner drew all hearts to him. He was deeply
interested in the singing and appearance of the people. A few days afterwards we saw his regiment
on dress-parade, and admired its remarkably fine and manly appearance. After taking supper
with the Colonel we sat outside the tent, while some of his men entertained us with excellent
singing. Every moment we became more and more charmed with him. How full of life and hope and
lofty aspirations he was that night! How eagerly he expressed his wish that they might soon
be ordered to Charleston! "I do hope they will give us a chance," he said. It was the desire
of his soul that his men should do themselves honor,--that they should prove themselves to
an unbelieving world as brave soldiers as though their skins were white. And for himself, he
was like the Chevalier of old, "without reproach or fear." After we had mounted our horses
and rode away, we seemed still to feel the kind clasp of his hand,--to hear the pleasant, genial
tones of his voice, as he bade us good-bye, and hoped that we might meet again. We never saw
him afterward. In two short weeks came the terrible massacre at Fort Wagner, and the beautiful
head of the young hero and martyr was laid low in the dust. Never shall we forget the heart-sickness
with which we heard of his death. We could not realize it at first,--we, who had seen him so
lately in all the strength and glory of his young manhood. For days we clung to a vain hope;
then it fell away from us, and we knew that he was gone. We knew that he died gloriously, but
still it seemed very hard. Our hearts bled for the mother whom he so loved,--for the young
wife, left desolate. And then we said, as we say now,--"God comfort them! He only can." During
a few of the sad days which followed the attack on Fort Wagner, I was in one of the hospitals
of Beaufort, occupied with the wounded soldiers of the Fifty-Fourth Massachusetts. The first
morning was spent in mending the bullet-holes and rents in their clothing. What a story they
told! Some of the jackets of the poor fellows were literally cut in pieces. It was pleasant
to see the brave, cheerful spirit among them. Some of them were severely wounded, but they
uttered no complaint; and in the letters which they dictated to their absent friends there
was no word of regret, but the same cheerful tone throughout. They expressed an eager desire
to get well, that they might "go at it again." Their attachment to their young colonel was
beautiful to see. They felt his death deeply. One and all united in the warmest and most enthusiastic
praise of him. He was, indeed, exactly the person to inspire the most loyal devotion in the
hearts of his men. And with everything to live for, he had given up his life for them. Heaven's
best gifts had been showered upon him, but for them he had laid them all down. I think they
truly appreciated the greatness of the sacrifice. May they ever prove worthy of such a leader!
Already, they, and the regiments of freedmen here, as well, have shown that true manhood has
no limitations of color.

       *       *       *       *       *

Daily the long-oppressed people of these islands are demonstrating their capacity for improvement
in learning and labor. What they have accomplished in one short year exceeds our utmost expectations.
Still the sky is dark; but through the darkness we can discern a brighter future. We cannot
but feel that the day of final and entire deliverance, so long and often so hopelessly prayed
for, has at length begun to dawn upon this much-enduring race. An old freedman said to me one
day, "De Lord make me suffer long time, Miss. 'Peared like we nebber was gwine to git troo.
But now we's free. He bring us all out right at las'." In their darkest hours they have clung
to Him, and we know He will not forsake them.

    "The poor among men shall rejoice,
    For the terrible one is brought to nought."

While writing these pages I am once more nearing Port Royal. The Fortunate Isles of Freedom
are before me. I shall again tread the flower-skirted wood-paths of St. Helena, and the sombre
pines and bearded oaks shall whisper in the sea-wind their grave welcome. I shall dwell again
among "mine own people." I shall gather my scholars about me, and see smiles of greeting break
over their dusk faces. My heart sings a song of thanksgiving, at the thought that even I am
permitted to do something for a long-abused race, and aid in promoting a higher, holier, and
happier life on the Sea Islands.

A FAST-DAY AT FOXDEN.

I.

Colonel Elijah Prowley, like all good and true genealogists, held the mother-country in tender
reverence. For, if there be any truth in the well-known mot which calls Paris the Paradise
of virtuous Yankees, it is limited to a few city-bucks of mongrel caste. England must be the
Promised Land for the genuine representative of the Puritan. Whatever we may have felt about
her lately,--and I confess there have been times when the declaration of the Fee-Faw-Fum giant
of nursery-romance seemed to be of a moral and praiseworthy character,--there is no doubt,
that, in the year of grace of which I write, and in the regards of many ratherish-scholarly
gentlemen of our country-towns, the British Islands were the nearest terrestrial correspondences
to the Islands of the Blest. About the massive Past Colonel Prowley never ceased to thrust
his epistolary tendrils. Was not Great Britain a genealogical hunting-ground where game of
rarest plumage might be started? Was not a family-connection with Sir Walter Raleigh (whose
name should be written Praleigh, a common corruption of "Prowley" in the sixteenth century)
susceptible of the clearest proof? There were, in fact, few distinguished Englishmen of the
present day, who, if a provoking ancestor or two could be unearthed, might not be shown to
have the Prowley fluid in their veins. To many of these eminent personages the head of the
American branch of the family had written, and with several he had succeeded in establishing
a correspondence. Old sermons, moral obituaries of public characters, celebrations of centennial
anniversaries, and heavy reading of like description, constantly left the Foxden Post-Office
addressed to the British Museum. The printed formulas of acknowledgment which arrived in return
were preserved as the rarest treasures.

And in fulness of time all this corresponding and presenting produced a glorious result. Elijah
Prowley, of Foxden, was chosen an Honorary Member of the Royal Society of British Sextons,--an
association than which there is none more mouldy in the whole world. Certainly, this was glory
enough for any Western genealogist,--yet Fortune had a higher gratification to bestow. For,
in His Worship, the Most Primordial, the High Senior Governour and Primitive Patriarch of all
Sextons, Colonel Prowley soon discovered a relative of his own. Sir Joseph Barley, a rubicund
old knight, and the Most Primordial in question, after an elaborate investigation and counter-investigation,
a jockeying of the wits of very old women, and a raid into divers registers, scrolls, schedules,
archives, and the like,--Sir Joseph Barley, I say, turned out to be a long-lost cousin. "Barley,"
it appeared, had anciently been written "Parley," and "Praley," and even "Proley." Having arrived
at this point, Sir Joseph conjectured that his ancestor Proley might have dropped a w out of
his name, and the Colonel conjectured that his progenitor, the Puritan, might have put one
into his. Now it did not matter which was right, for, as was convincingly underscored in one
of my letters from Foxden, "upon either hypothesis, the relationship of the Barleys of Old
England to the Prowleys of New England was positively established."

And so Sir Joseph Barley was dead!

Although shocked, when the fact of his demise was abruptly announced in the familiar chirography
of my old friend, I was unable to prevent a certain sense of the grotesque from mingling with
the idea. A portrait in pastel, which hung over the chimney-piece in the Colonel's study, had
given me a thorough acquaintance with the outward Sir Joseph. That brief, but bulky figure,
clad in official robes as High Senior Governour, that weighty seal of the Sextons which dangled
from the fob, those impressive spectacles with the glasses cut in parallelograms, above all,
that full-blown face blandly contemplating our American rudeness like a smiling Phoebus from
British skies,--how could all these things, which had so individualized the natural body of
Sir Joseph Barley, be dispensed with in its spiritual counterpart? No answer to such question,--only
the grim facts, that one brother more had "gone over to the majority," and that the living
minority got on very comfortably without him. Comfortably? Ay, truly; for in the very letter
that brought the news I was begged to spend the approaching Fast-Day in Foxden, just as if
nothing had happened. The season, so I was assured, was unusually advanced, and already the
flavor of spring was perceptible in the air; moreover, the different congregations in town
were to unite in services at the Orthodox Church, and, by extraordinary favor, one of the Colonel's
Boston correspondents, no less a man than the distinguished Dr. Burge, was to preach the sermon.

A noble specimen of our New-England clergy was this Dr. Burge. He held the old creed-formulas
through which Wilson and Mather declared their faith, yet warmed them into ruddy life by whatever
fire the last transcendental Prometheus or Comte-devoted scientist filched from aërial or material
heaven. A good diner-out, a good visitor among the poor. His parishioners supplied him with
a wood-fire, a saddle-horse, and, it was maliciously said, a boxing-master; and he, on his
part,--so ran the idle rumor of the street,--covenanted never to call upon them for cod-liver
oil, Bourbon whiskey, or a tour to Europe. In his majestic presence there was a total impression
sanative to body and soul. The full powers of manner and tone, of pause and emphasis, were
at his command. He would rise in a shingled meeting-house as effective as choir, organ, and
sacerdotal vestments in full cathedral-service. I was glad to learn that this stalwart servant
of the Word would be at Foxden. He had formerly been well acquainted with the Reverend Charles
Clifton, late pastor of a church in that place. He might deal wisely with the evil intelligence,
or, possibly, the infatuated egotism, which controlled that unfortunate man. Dr. Burge would
possess his soul in calmness in presence of the singular epidemic which was then running through
Foxden, as it had previously run through, and run out of, other river-towns.

And now it has come in my way to speak of that strange murmuring of phantoms and their attendant
seers, psychometers, and dactylomancers, which in these latter days has revived among us. And
what I may have to say about what is called Spiritualism will reflect actual observations.
I do not forget that to the advocacy of the "New Dispensation" are devoted many men of earnestness
and a few of ability. It is possible that the facts they build upon may render mine exceptional
and unimportant. What is here set down is but a trifling contribution to that mass of human
testimony and human opinion from which the truth must be finally elicited.

Mr. Stellato had been celestially commissioned to Barnum the spirits in their Foxden exhibitions.
Two years previously this gentleman was to be seen at the head of a fanatical and tumultuary
offshoot from a cause the most humane and noble. He had done whatever his slender abilities
permitted to bring into discredit large-hearted and devoted men and women whom history will
honorably remember as New-England Reformers. But to lead anything on a large scale, without
a continual winding-up by his companion, the fibrous Mrs. Romulus, was beyond the crassitude
of Stellato's pursy nature. Now it had come to pass that this acidulated lady, essaying fresh
flurries of progression, discovering higher passional affinities and new duties of demolition,
proving that in Church and State every brick was loose and every timber rotten, testifying
ever to the existence of a certain harmonial mortar by which the rubbish of a demolished civilization
could be rebuilt into unexceptionable forms,--it happened that this woman, having towered for
one proud moment at the very apex of her mission, slipped suddenly into the Romish communion,
and was no more seen of men. Stellato, perceiving that the peculiar machinery be had been taught
to manage was now out of repair and impracticable, looked about for some new invention whereby
to gain a livelihood from the credulity of his neighbors. "The spirits," then at the height
of their profit and renown, were adapted to his purpose. A blank and vacant mind was freely
offered to any power of earth or air which would condescend to enter and possess it. And so
Mr. Stellato, with his three parts knavery and two parts delusion, became a popular and successful
ghost-monger.

The parsonage had been closed since Charles Clifton terminated his connection with the parish
two years before. The newest lights of the Liberal persuasion, fledglings from divinity-schools,
youths of every possible variety of creed and no creed, had by turns occupied the vacant pulpit.
The Gospel vibrated at all points between the interpretations of Calvin and Strauss. The congregation
grew more and more critical, and could agree upon no candidate for settlement. They demanded
the respectability of belief with the showy talents of skepticism,--an impossible combination,
at least for a parish which offered only eight hundred dollars and a decrepit house. At length
Colonel Prowley took a pew in the Orthodox Church;--it was a temporary arrangement, he said,
to be terminated whenever a settled minister should be provided for the First Parish.

The Reverend Charles Clifton seldom left the rooms which he had taken in a farmer's family
on the outskirts of the town. We have seen how this man had once believed that Providence had
called him to an exceptional and brilliant destiny. The total renouncement of what once glowed
as a mission requires a sturdy nature and plenty of active work. Clifton possessed an exceeding
susceptibility of nervous organization; he was full of subtile intimations of what was passing
in the minds of other men, and at times seemed to have a strange power of controlling them.
The deep passion for metaphysical knowledge, which in his youth had been kindled, was stilled,
but never overcome. Wifeless, childless, he was put under no bonds to struggle with the world.
He knew the coldness of the church in which he had been ordained to minister,--the hard and
dreary lives of those whom he had undertaken to illumine. But he made the fatal mistake--inexcusable,
it would seem, in a man of his liberal nurture--of supposing that this world's evil was owing
to the absence of right opinion, and not of right feeling. It is to be feared that it was not
principle, but only a paroxysm of cowardice, which caused Clifton to bury Vannelle's legacy
in the Mather Safe. At all events, the minister found himself unable to dismiss a certain thin
and impalpable fantasy which lingered behind that ponderous speculation of an all-embracing
philosophy. For the past two years he had fitfully sought, or rather persuaded himself that
he sought, some clue through the sad labyrinth of his fate. He had indulged in the most morbid
conditions of his physical organism; there was neither steadiness in his purpose nor firmness
in his action. He yearned for that proximity to hidden things, which, if not forbidden to all
men, yet is dangerous to most men. At length he succeeded in freeing his soul from the weight
of conscious intellectual life which had become too heavy for it to bear. And while the Foxden
people were wondering about the occupation of a late pastor in one of their churches, and inquiring
of each other whether he would again speak before them, their gossiping solicitude was suddenly
set at rest. Printed show-bills were posted about the streets: "Grand Festival of Spiritualists
at the Town Hall." "The Reverend Charles Clifton will speak"--a line of largest type gloated
upon the scandal--"IN A TRANCE-STATE."

"I really ought to apologize," said Colonel Prowley, upon opening the hall-door for my admittance,
on the afternoon of the second Wednesday in April, and this after repeated summons had been
sounded by the brazen knocker,--"I ought to apologize for keeping you here so long; but there
has been so much knocking about the house of late, and our cook and housemaid having turned
out to be such excellent mediums, taking just as much interest in their circle down-stairs
as we do in ours in the parlor, and then Mrs. Colfodder being so positive that it was either
Sir Joseph Barley or Roger Williams,--though I am sure neither of them ever knocked half so
satisfactorily before, and besides"----

"My dear Sir," interrupted I, "no excuse is necessary. I have seen enough of 'the spirits'
to know how they put aside all conventionalities. I should have accompanied Dr. Burge to the
hotel, had I anticipated disturbing the circle which, I infer, is at present in session."

"You would have grieved me very much by doing so," rejoined the kind old gentleman. "Dr. Burge
dines with me to-morrow, and I confess--not yet calling myself a convert to these miracles
which are now vouchsafed in Foxden--it would not be amiss to rid my premises of the amiable
magicians congregated in my parlor before a minister were invited to enter. But a layman, as
I take it, might witness these thaumaturgical matters without scandal,--nay, perchance you
may help me to that wholesome credence in their reality which my celestial visitants so unceasingly
demand."

Colonel Prowley was in the state of mind not unusual to many well-meaning, unoccupied people,
when this modern necromancy was thrust upon them by those pecuniarily or socially interested
in its advocacy. The upheaval to the air of that dark inward nature which is ever working in
us,--the startling proof of that loudly proclaimed, faintly realized truth, that this mind,
so pervading every fibre of the body, is yet separate in its essence,--the novel gratification
of the petty vanities and petty questionings which beset undecided men,--what wonder that persons
not accustomed to sound analysis of evidence should be beguiled by these subtilest adaptations
to their conditions, and hold dalliance with the feeble shades that imposture or enthusiasm
vended about the towns? Historical personages--a nerveless mimicry of the conventional stage-representation
of them--stalked the Colonel's parlor. Departed friends, Indians à discrétion, local celebrities,
Deacon Golly, who in the year '90 took the ten first shares in the Wrexford Turnpike, the very
Pelatiah Brimble from whom "Brimble's Corner" had taken its name, the identical Timson forever
immortal in "Timson's Common,"--these defunct worthies were audibly, visibly, or tangibly present,
pecking at great subjects in ghostly feebleness, swimming in Tupperic dilutions of cheapest
wisdom, and finally inducing in their patrons strange derangements of mind and body.

The circle, which was very select, consisted of three highly susceptible ladies and Stellato
as medium-in-chief. Miss Turligood, a sort of Oroveso to the Druidical chorus, was a muscular
spinster, fierce and forty, sporting steel spectacles, a frizette of the most scrupulous honesty,
and a towering comb which formed what the landscape-gardeners call "an object" in the distance.
Next this commanding lady, with fat hands sprawled upon the table, sat Mrs. Colfodder, widow,
according to the flesh, of a respectable Foxden grocer. By later spiritual communications,
however, it appeared that matters stood very differently; for no sooner had the departed Colfodder
looked about him a little in the world to come than he proceeded to contract marriage with
Queen Elizabeth of England, thereby leaving his mortal relict quite free to receive the addresses
of the late Lord Byron, whose proposals were of the most honorable as well as amatory character.
Miss Branly, by far the most pleasing of the lady-patronesses, was a fragile, stove-dried mantua-maker,--and,
truly, it seemed something like poetic justice to recompense her depressed existence with the
satisfactions of a material heaven full of marryings and givings in marriage.

"Will Sir Joseph tip for us again?" inquired Miss Turligood, with her eyes fixed upon a crack
in the mahogany table. "Will he? Will he not? Will he?"

Sir Joseph vouchsafed no answer.

"Hark! wasn't that a rap?" cried Stellato, in a husky whisper.

Here every one pricked an ear towards the table.

"Doctor Franklin, is that you?"

"The Doctor promised to be present to give a scientific and philosophical view of these communications,"
parenthesized the interrogator.

"Doctor Franklin, is that you?"

A faint creaking is audible.

"Byron's sign, as I'm a living woman!" ejaculated the Widow Colfodder.

"Her spiritual partner and guardian-angel," explained Miss Turligood,--and this for my satisfaction
as the last-comer.

Direct examination by the widow:--

"Have you brought your patent lyre here to-night?"

For the enlightenment of the company:--

"He played the lyre so beautiful on earth, that when he got to the spheres a committee gave
him a golden one, with all the modern improvements."

Question concerning the lyre repeated. A mysterious rubbing interpreted as an affirmative reply.

"Have you brought Pocahontas with you? (she 'most always comes with him)--and if so, can she
kiss me to-night?"

The table is exceedingly doubtful.

"Could she kiss Colonel Prowley, or even pull his hair a little?"

No certainty of either.

"Can she kiss Miss Turligood?"

The table is satisfied that it couldn't be done.

"Let me try her," urged Stellato, with the confidence of an expert; then in seductive tones,--

"Couldn't Pocahontas kiss Miss Branly, if all the lights were put out?"

Pocahontas thought it highly probable that she could.

Here some interesting badgering. Miss Branly declined being kissed in the dark. Miss Turligood
thought it would be very satisfactory, if she would, and couldn't see why any one should object
to it. She (Miss Turligood) would willingly be kissed in the dark, or in the light, in furtherance
of scientific investigation.

Stellato suggested a compromise.

"Might not the kissing be done through a medium?"

At first the table thought it couldn't, but afterwards relented, and thought it might.

"Would Pocahontas appoint that medium?"

She would.

"Should the alphabet be called?"

It should not.

"Would the table tip towards the medium indicated?"

It could not be done.

"Should somebody call over the names of all mediums present, and would the table tip at the
right one?"

Ah, that was it!

"I suppose you and I have no share in this Gift Enterprise," whispered Colonel Prowley.

"Order! order!" shouted Miss Turligood, glancing in our direction with great severity. "This
general conversation cannot be permitted. We are about to have a most interesting manifestation.--Pocahontas,
do you wish me to call over the names?"

Pocahontas did not object.

"Very well, then, you will tip when I come to the name of the medium through whom you consent
to kiss Miss Sarah Branly?"

Pocahontas certainly would.

"Is it Mrs. Colfodder?"

No reply.

"Is it I, Eugenia Turligood?"

No, it certainly was not.

"Well, then, I suppose it must be Mr. Stellato!"

Here the table was violently convulsed, as if somebody were pulling it very hard upon Mr. Stellato's
side, and somebody else holding it with rigid firmness upon the other.

"Is it Mr. Stellato?"

Convulsion repeated.

"I don't think you stopped long enough at Mrs. Colfodder's name," interposed Miss Branly. "I
am sure the table was going to move, if you had given it time."

"Nothing easier than to try again," responded Miss Turligood. "Is it Mrs. Colfodder?"

This time the table fairly sprang into the lap of the lady indicated.

And so that worthy widow arose and saluted--or rather Pocahontas, through her mediumship, arose
and saluted--Miss Sarah Branly. And the skeptic will please take notice that this extraordinary
manifestation is neither enlarged nor magnified, but that it actually happened precisely as
is here set down.

After this, Mr. Stellato, being put under inspiration, delivered a discursive homily upon the
"New Dispensation" which was at present vouchsafed to the citizens of Foxden. He testified
to the great relief of getting clear of the "Old Theology,"--meaning thereby such interpretations
of Scripture as are held by the mass of our New-England churches. Moreover, he would announce
his personal satisfaction in having, under spiritual guidance, eradicated every vestige of
belief in hell,--a circumstance upon which, it is needless to say, that a gentleman of his
profession might be honestly congratulated. With a view, as I could not help thinking, to my
peculiar necessities, Stellato finally enlarged upon what he termed "the principle of the thing,"
or, as he otherwise phrased it, "a scientific explanation of the way the spirits worked mediums,"--"sperrets"
and "meejums" according to celestial pronunciation, but I am loath to disturb the carnal orthography.
This philosophical exposition, drawled forth in interminable sentences, was a dark doctrine
to the uninitiated. There was a good deal about "Essences," which, at times, seemed to relate
to the perfumery vended in the fancy-department of apothecaries' shops, and then again to some
obscure matters of "Zones," "Interiors," "Magnetic Relations," and the like. The central revelation,
if I remember rightly, had to do with a sort of putty, by which, according to the Stellato
cosmogony, Chaos had been stuck together into a Universe. This adhesive composition was known
as "Detached Vitalized Electricity." And having got upon this sounding title, which conveyed
no meaning whatever to the "undeveloped" understanding, Stellato was profuse in windy talk.
This Detached Vitalized Electricity, spread out over space, connected the parts of all systems;
it appeared at that very instant in the form of "power" about Miss Turligood's head; in short,
it diluted all stray bits of modern rhetoric, all exploded feats of ancient magic, into the
thinnest of spiritual gruel, which was to supersede the strong meat upon which the Puritan
walked before his Maker.

Somebody summoned the eminent Twynintuft. Like every spirit that was ever called for, this
ex-elocutionist happened to be within a few seconds' flight of the circle, and had nothing
in the world to do but to swoop down and tip as long as the company could possibly endure him.

The following information was elicited by affirmative or negative replies to the interrogatories
of those present:--

The spirit communicating was Twynintuft, grandfather to Mrs. Widesworth. Was unable to give
his Christian name. Thought Mrs. Colfodder's lungs in a healthy condition. Could not undertake
to move the table when no hands were upon it. If the room were made totally dark, would attempt
that curious experiment. Was unable to give the maiden name of his earthly wife. Thought Mr.
Stellato was a healing-medium of great power. Had been something of a Root-Doctor when in the
body, and would gladly prescribe through that gentleman for the cure of all diseases. Considered
mineral medicines destructive to the vital principle. Doctor Dastick, being a drug-doctor,
would not be recognized by any medical association in the spheres. Would give any information
about the fixed stars. The inhabitants of the Milky Way telegraphed to each other by means
of the Detached Vitalized Electricity. Also, they bottled up the same to cure humors. Would
privately impart their recipe to Mr. Stellato. It could not be afforded upon this earth at
less than three dollars a bottle. Would, however, authorize an exception in favor of clergymen,
when they gave certificates of cures. The spirits did not recognize Fast-Day,--it was a remnant
of the Old Mythological Religion. Demanded further investigation, and promised greater marvels
in future.

Here Miss Turligood became violently convulsed, and, having slapped the table some forty times
or more, seized a pencil and began to write:--

     "DEAR PROWLEY,--Surrounded by a bank of
     silver-tunicked attendants, I hover near you. The atmosphere is
     redolent of costly herbs, which, with the well-known rotary
     motion of the earth, impart density and spacefulness to our
     spheral persons: this is the philosophy of our presence. Many
     shining friends, supported upon fluted pillars, are with you
     this evening. These grieve at your lack of faith, and flap
     gold-bespattered wings in unison. Spherically yours,

     "SIR JOSEPH BARLEY."

"Why does he sign himself Sir?" inquired Colonel Prowley, rather taken aback at the sudden
termination of this exquisite composition.

It was evidently an oversight, for the medium's hand erased the offending title.

"When did Sir Joseph die?" I ventured to ask.

"That I cannot tell you," replied his late correspondent. "I have heard nothing from him for
several months. When he last wrote, he was suffering under a severe influenza which must have
terminated fatally. But why not ask him the question?"

"That is just my purpose.--Sir Joseph Barley, can you give me the date of your death?"

"It is hard for spirits to give numbers," said Mr. Stellato.

"It is sometimes done by tips," quoth Miss Turligood.

I pressed the demand, and, after much cajoling and counting, a certain day of March was fixed upon.

"Can you give me the place?"

I was instructed to call over the names of such foreign cities as I might remember, and assured
that Sir Joseph would tip at the right one.

It turned out to be "London."

"And now, Sir Joseph, could you oblige me with the name of the physician who attended your
last sickness?"

But no sooner had I propounded this final query than Mr. Stellato declared his consciousness
of a skeptical influence in the company which would go far to impede other manifestations.
Where people were not harmonial, he explained, the Detached Vitalized Electricity being unable
to unite with the Imponderable Magnetic Fluid given off by mediums, satisfactory results could
not be obtained.

"But we have at least obtained this satisfaction," said I, addressing Colonel Prowley: "Sir
Joseph has committed himself about the day and place of his decease. You must soon hear from
some member of his family. If these particulars have been correctly given, there will be, at
least, the beginning of evidence upon which to establish his identity."

Mrs. Colfodder was so shocked with the perversity of unbelief which she detected in this harmless
remark, that, nudging Miss Branly, she solemnly arose and moved to break up the circle for
the night. And as it was already past nine o'clock, no violent objection was made to the proposition.

"The circle will meet in this place to-morrow morning at eight o'clock, for the pursuance of
further investigations," proclaimed Miss Turligood, in sonorous accents.

"Fast-Day, Madam," mildly suggested Colonel Prowley.

"The spirits do not recognize Fast-Day. Tomorrow at eight o'clock. In this place. Let every
medium be punctual. It is to be hoped that the conditions will then be favorable!"

This latter aspiration, with its feminine redundancy of emphasis, was cast in my direction,
as Miss Turligood swept haughtily from the room.

Her final exit, however, was neither curt nor in any way effective. For it was no easy matter
to gather up the bags, parcels, shawls, and other devices which the good lady had brought with
her and scattered about the entry. One India-rubber shoe in particular eluded our search, till
I was ready to admit the supposition that the spirits had carried it off, as entirely reasonable
and satisfactory. A good-natured Irishman, servant to Miss Turligood, who had come with a lantern
to see her home, at length discovered this missing bit of apparel upon Miss Branly's foot,--that
medium, as it appeared, having in a fit of abstraction appropriated three. Finally the lantern
glimmered down the gravel-walk, and Mr. Stellato, with a lady upon each arm, was persuaded
to follow it. It was waking from a nightmare to get rid of them.

"Over at last!" exclaimed Miss Prowley, when we returned to the drawing-room. She had been
sitting in silence in an obscure corner, and I had scarcely realized her presence. "Over at
last! and of all fatiguing and unprofitable employments that the folly of man ever devised,
this trifling with spirits is certainly the chief."

"Nay, my dear," urged the brother, in his placid way, "these good people who have fastened
themselves upon us seem so anxious to continue the investigation that I cannot find it in my
heart to refuse them. I did wish, to be sure, that we might have our Fast-Day in quiet; but
Miss Turligood, who knows much more about the matter than we do, thinks the spirits would not
like it, if we did, and so--although we will absent ourselves from the sitting long enough
to go to church--we must really make the best of it, and receive the circle."

"You speak like a believer, Colonel Prowley," I said.

"No, not quite that," replied the old gentleman,--"yet, truly, I sometimes hardly know why
I am not. The knockings alone are quite inexplicable; and when it comes to a fiery hand ringing
the dinner-bell, which Stellato can show in the dark----Besides, there are the communications
from distinguished characters, many of them so very important and interesting. To be sure,
my poor cousin Barley did not do himself justice this evening, though some of his ideas were
very poetical; but, really, the other night, when he told us how much the Royal Sextons were
thought of in the spheres, and repeated that very high compliment which Thomas Herne paid to
my family-history, it all seemed so marvellous, and yet so natural, that I could not help subscribing
pretty handsomely to the cause."

"And one of the privileges that your subscription has gone to purchase I am yet to enjoy. Dr.
Burge wished me to visit, in his company, your former pastor, Mr. Clifton,--and we must look
for him, as I see, at the Spiritualists' Festival in the Town Hall."

"Sad! sad!" cried Colonel Prowley, thoughtfully chewing upon my remark. "It is an abiding shame
for a minister of the gospel to meddle with these things, except, possibly, in the way of exorcism.
Truly, a deep humiliation has fallen upon the town."

And the chagrin of this respected gentleman was wholly sincere. The Puritanical distinction
between clergy and laity had scarcely faded in his mind. The pastor of the First Church had
belonged to a cherished class,--a class whose moral and intellectual consequence must be maintained
by avoidance of all dangerous inquiries, common interests, and secular amusements. A minister
attending a Jenny-Lind Charity-Concert in a play-house, or leading armed men in the most sacred
cause for which human blood might be shed,--what offences would these have been to this titular
Colonel of Foxden, who had won his honors by a six-months' finery and dining as aide-de-camp
to some forgotten Governor!

"I fear I shall not be back before you wish to close the house."

"Never mind, you remember the old arrangement: door-key under the scraper,--light burning in
the drawing-room."

With hearty thanks I went forth to keep my appointment with Dr. Burge.

II.

The narrative here takes us to a portion of the shadowy perturbation which any who have turned
these pages as a fictitious rendering of the grotesque in experience will do well to omit.
Only a mortifying, though perchance salutary, sense of human infirmity comes from beholding
one set over the people as intercessor and counsellor struggling in the meshes of that snare
which the Enemy had spread for the undisciplined and wandering multitude. No, not even struggling
now. That Clifton had fought through solitary days against the wretched enervation which invited
him, I had reason to know. But he had dared to tamper with the normal functions of mind and
body, to try fantastic tricks with that mysterious agent through which the healthy will commands
the organism. And when the mental disorder, mocked at and preached against in happier years,
at length ran through Foxden, the morbid condition of his system was powerless to resist the
contagion.

And let us not overlook the fact that in these manifestations there was to be found a palpable
reality, a positive marvel, well calculated to lay hold of a skeptic like Clifton. His early
associations with the Transcendentalists had undermined his faith in all popular presentations
of Christianity. But his peculiarly emotional nature could never dwell in that haziness of
opinion upon august subjects in which sounder men among the brethren made out to live cheerfully
and to work vigorously. While Clifton madly sought a position of intelligence and satisfaction
beyond the reach of humanity, the necessary abstraction enlarged and stimulated his reasoning
powers. But the penalty was to be paid. For with terrible recoil from its tension his mind
contracted to far less than normal limits. Then came a listless vacuity, a tawdry dreaminess.
And this poor minister, who flattered himself that he had outgrown every graceful and touching
form with which human affection or human infirmity had clothed the Christian idea, stumbled
amid the rubbish of an effete heathenism, with its Sibylline contortions and tripod-responses,
which the best minds of Pagan civilization found no difficulty in pronouncing a delusion and a lie.

I knew Dr. Burge for one of those most useful instructors who will patiently examine with the
intellect what the instinct teaches them to condemn. He seldom helped the doctrine he assailed
by denying it such facts as were true and such attractions as were real. He had cheerfully
accepted whatever reproach came to him from frequenting circles in the attempt to see the mystery
from the believers' point of view. I was not surprised at finding him upon one of the back
benches in the Town Hall.

"Nothing noteworthy," he said, as I joined him. "Only women have spoken,--the excited nervous
system careering without restraint,--no spirits yet."

"They pretend inspiration, I suppose."

"Oh, yes; and it is not surprising that semi-educated people, ignorant of analogous phenomena,
should take the omne ignotum pro magnifico."

"Yet you are said to be a believer in the possession which the mediums claim?"

"Certainly," replied Dr. Burge, "and to just this extent:--I do not doubt the possibility of
intercourse between man and the lower grades of immaterial life, and I am willing to adopt
this hypothesis to explain any occurrence where the facts demand it. That, in rare cases, such
may be the most simple and natural supposition, I readily admit. The ordinary performances,
however, may be accounted for without calling in god or demon to untie the knot."

I remarked that Mr. Clifton was not to be seen upon the platform.

"He is kept out of the way until the last,--in the Selectmen's Room, as I am told, and alone."

"I fear all appeal would now be in vain; yet, Sir, I would not have you spare an effort to
awaken him to the peril of his course."

"Let us go to him, then," assented Dr. Burge.

Upon common occasions, the Selectmen's Room failed to suggest any exceptional character in
its occupants. It was a narrow, ill-lighted, unventilated apartment, bitter with the after-taste
of taxes, prophetically flavorous of taxes yet to be. Stove-accommodation beyond the criticism
of the most fastidious salamander, a liberal sprinkling of sand with a view to the ruminant
necessities of the town-patricians, two or three stiff armchairs with straws protruding from
their well-worn cushions, intolerant benches for unofficial occupancy,--altogether a gloomy
aggregate result of the diverse ideals of social well-being to be found among the inhabitants
of Foxden. But now I recognized a new element in this familiar chamber; a strange contagion
hung about the walls; a something which imparted delicate edge to the nervous system was perceptible
in the dry heat of the air. Near an oracular table, which bore evidence of recent manipulation,
stood the Reverend Charles Clifton: others had evidently been with him before our entrance;
he was now alone. An oil-lamp sputtered feebly in the corner. The stove-devil glared at us
through his one glazed eye, and puffed out his mephitic welcome as I shut the door.

"Clifton, my old friend!" exclaimed Dr. Burge.

The person addressed raised his head, half closed his eyes, as one who endeavors to fix objects
which are flitting before him. It seemed necessary to withdraw his inward gaze from some delicious
dazzlement of dream-land. At last he spoke slowly and with effort.

"Burge, you here?--and one of us?"

"Heaven forbid!" cried my companion. "I but look upon these things for my own warning, and
in the way of my duty as teacher to those who might be disposed to tamper with unknown powers,
within or without."

"Say, rather, to melt the iron links which gyve soul to body," said Clifton, in constrained
articulation, through which a moaning undertone seemed ever trying to be heard. "Say, rather,
to produce a finer exaltation than wine, opium, or hashish,--for it is most sweet to subject
the animal organism to the control of spirit-wills."

"A grateful doctrine to those who dare to substitute a morbid receptivity for an active endeavor!"

"It is to soothe the sense-powers, so that others may use them to give us intimations far beyond
their common capacity."

"'I keep under my body and bring it into subjection,'" quoted Dr. Burge, emphasizing the personal
pronoun. "The Apostle declares that his own immortal individuality alone controls his members,--and
why? 'lest, when I have preached unto others, I myself should become a castaway.'"

The Doctor delivered the last sentence with rich cathedral-emphasis, and with the full unction
of priestly authority.

Clifton, or whatever vague and dusky power controlled him, cowered at the rebuke. The nervous
energy with which he had experimented, or which he had left passive for the experiments of
others, seemed withdrawn from his frame.

Dr. Burge perceived his advantage, and continued:--

"I speak to you, my fallen brother, as I cannot speak to the foolish people who grope in this
miasma of delusion. Silly women, yielding to the natural vanity of their sex, may mistake hysterics
for inspiration. Vacillating and vacant men may seek a new sensation by encouraging a revival
of the demoniacal epidemics of heathendom. But you, who have been a preacher of the gospel,
though, as I must now more than ever believe, after a devitalized and perverted method,--you,
to leave the honest work of a dweller upon earth, to chatter of immensity, to weaken the brain
that it may no longer separate the true from the false!--believe me, Clifton, you have been
bought by the shallowest promises which the King of Evil ever exchanged for a sacred and inviolable
soul."

"You have spoken according to your business," replied Mr. Clifton, impatiently. "You, who begin
by assuming the impossibility of spirit-intercourse since Bible times, with what candor can
you examine the facts we build upon?"

"I make no such assumption," was the rejoinder. Have we not aforetime been vexed with them
in this very New England? For I almost justify Mather's words, when he stigmatizes the necromancy
of his day as 'a terrible Plague of Evil Angels,' or, in still plainer speech, as 'a prodigious
descent of devils upon divers places near the centre of this Province.' And how better can
we characterize this confused and distracting babblement which gives no good gift to man?"

"It has given him this," exclaimed Clifton, advancing towards Dr. Burge, and seeming for a
few moments to resume his old personality,--"it has given him the knowledge of a life to come!
You think it, preach it, believe it,--but you do not know it. A susceptibility to impressions
from the inmost characters of men has been mine through life. It has been given me to perceive
what facts and feelings most deeply adhered in the mental consciousness. And I tell you, Burge,
ministers both of your communion and of mine repeat the old words of sublimest assurance, sway
congregations with descriptions bright or lurid of future worlds, yet behind all this glowing
speech and blatant confidence there has lurked,--oh, will you deny it?--there has lurked a
grovelling doubt of man's immortality."

"I will not deny it," said Dr. Burge, with slow solemnity. "Sinners that we are, how can we
ask that faith be at no moment confused by the thousand cries of infidelity which our profession
requires us to answer? Let my soul be chilled by transient shades of skepticism, rather than
dote in a blind and puerile credulity! If I am not at all times equally penetrated by the great
fact of man's conscious immortality, it is because of my undesert. A way to know of the doctrine
has been revealed: it is by doing the will of the Father: who of us has fulfilled the condition?
But I can meet you on lower ground, and declare, that, according to our human observation,
it is not well for man to know the destiny of his being in all its details until the trials
and victories of life have taught him to turn such knowledge to elevating use. It is the deplorable
sinfulness of our nature which seeks to obtain without deserving, to possess the end and despise
the appointed means."

Some reply would doubtless have been made to these pertinent considerations, had not the confused
tramp of a committee been heard at the door. The professors of the "New Dispensation" had come
to conduct the Reverend Charles Clifton to their platform. The distinguished convert shuddered,
as if affected by some incorporeal presence, and suffered himself to be led away.

"I can do nothing more," murmured Dr. Burge; "and why should I stay to hear diluted rhetoric,
or inflated commonplace, from lips which, however unworthily, once proclaimed the simplicity
of the gospel?"

"Because it is not well to prejudge what may offer some possible variety in this credence,"
I ventured to suggest.

"You are right; we will stay."

A murmur of applause followed the appearance of Clifton upon the platform,--yet it was only
a murmur; for the flock, long pastured upon delicate delusions, received as matter of course
whatever shepherding chance offered. Did not the face of the medium wear an expression of earthly
disappointment at this slender recognition? Could it be that there was needed the hot-house
heat of a carnal "success" to favor this exquisite flowering of the spirit? Can we suppose
that this whole matter was no other than some Yankee patent to avoid the awful solitude in
which each human soul must enter into relations with the unseen?

Slowly and in dreamy heaviness the discourse began. The inspirational claims seemed to lie
in the manifest improbability of a man of Clifton's cultivation being so dull and diffuse in
a natural condition. Yet, as the message wore on, it cannot be denied that a strange influence
was at work. The words followed each other with greater fluency and in richer abundance. The
meaning, to be sure, was still vague enough; and whenever some commonplace truth or plausibility
protruded from the general washiness, it was seized upon and beaten and stretched to the last
degree of tenuity. Phrases upon phrases of gorgeous dreaminess. A soothing delight,--yet such
delight as only the bodily senses demanded. A joyful deliverance from the bondage of intellectual
life. Hints that our human consciousness of sin was a vain delusion from which the "developed"
man was happily delivered. "Come up here," said the preacher, in substance, "and escape from
this moral accountability which sits so heavily upon you. Here is a sensuous paradise, sweet
and debilitating, offering varied delights to the eclecticism of personal taste. All angular
and harsh things may be dissolved in copious floods of words, and washed into a ravishing,
enervating Universe."

An hour--two hours--passed. The air was thick and poisonous. Attention had been strained to
the utmost. Other things were to be noted by those accustomed to regard mental disorder from
a physiological point of view.

And now, by some abnormal mode of cerebral activity, the trance-speaker won strange sympathies
from his auditors. Certain faculties in Clifton had reached an expansion not permitted to the
healthy man. A plastic power came from him and took the impress of other minds. Old experiences
groped out of forgotten corners and haunted the discourse. At one time it seemed as if all
that was potential in the culture of the medium or his audience might be stimulated into specious
blossom. Phenomena were exhibited which transcended the conscious powers of the human soul,--nay,
which testified of its latent ability to work without organic conditions. Our unemployed brain-organs,
as Hamilton and others have clearly proved, are always employing themselves. And from this
self-employment--or was it demon-employment?--there swept through the consciousness a vague
delirium of excitement. In all that assembly a single pulse beat feverish measures. The climax
was reached. Without was the soft spring night veiling the scarcely touched range of knowledge
and beauty offered to the healthy energies of man; within were dazed wanderers in a region
of morbid emotion, seeking to intensify the colors of Nature, willing to waste precious vitality
in conjurations of the dead.

The wretched thraldom was over,--and what had it left?

An exquisite sensitiveness of the nerves of sense, imagination exalted, memory goaded, reason
and judgment overthrown.

III.

In his Fast-Day sermon Dr. Burge delivered himself of much weighty testimony against those
thaumaturgical incantations of heathenism which had been revived among us. With his splendor
of clerical pause and emphasis he read the denunciations against a sinful nation to which the
prophet Isaiah has affixed the awful words,--"Saith the Lord, the Lord of Hosts."

Here the preacher's dark eyes left the sacred volume, and seemed to gaze upon some coming struggle
in which the sins of the people would meet a bloody retribution. Then, referring to the page,
he pronounced with bitterness of holy indignation the prophetic curse which was that day fulfilled
in our cherished New England.

The sermon made no more visible impression upon the sinful portion of the congregation than
homilies against novel and pleasant indulgences are wont to do.

"The Apostle was right, after all," said Colonel Prowley, quoting the text upon the meeting-house
steps; "we should 'try the spirits.'"

"No objection to that," said the post-master; "but here's Dr. Burge tells us to keep out of
their way, and call them all humbugs, without trying them at all."

The gentleman referred to joined our party upon the meeting-house green, and accompanied us home.

As we entered the house, our ears were saluted by a sort of scuffling noise, with an accompaniment
of broken English. Miss Turligood, highly charged with the Detached Vitalized Electricity,
or some stimulant of equal potency, ran to meet us in the entry, to enjoin silence and a passive
state of mind before entering the parlor. The manifestations during service had been most wonderful.
Twynintuft had lifted the table to the ceiling, with Mr. Stellato clinging to the legs. Mrs.
Colfodder had had her back-hair taken down, and the housemaid was certain that somebody tried
to kiss her.

We made for the parlor with all convenient speed. Notwithstanding the solemn adjurations of
Dr. Burge, we entertained guilty hopes of seeing some of the marvels which had become such
positive drugs in our absence. But to see anything was, for a long time, out of the question;
for the spirits had insisted upon having the shutters closed, and shawls pinned up before the
cracks in the same, ere they would favor mortals with an exhibition. Finally, dim outlines
revealed themselves through the obscurity. We made out a female figure (it was the cook, so
Miss Prowley whispered) who was haranguing the assembly at the rate of a word every thirty
seconds, or thereabouts.

Cook as Twynintuft:--"I am Mister Twynintuft. I set lots by you all. I left my bright spirit-home
to come here to-day. The squashes was musty afore they was brought into the house. No blame
to the cook. Them pickled termarterses couldn't keep into spring, and so I tell you now. The
spheres is a dry place, and everythin' is most a-beautiful here."

Betty, the housemaid, loquitur.--(She appears in the character of Red-Jacket, a popular personation
upon these occasions,--it being very easy to talk Indian by the simple recipe of transposing
the nominative and objective cases of the personal pronoun.) "Me don't like what you say, old
Twyney! I's name's Red-Jacket. Pale-face give fire-water to I. The squashes was good enough
till cook left 'em out in the rain. Me have hunting-ground in fifth sphere. When me puts up
tomatoes in the spirit-world, me rosins 'em when they bile. Great influence comes from I to-day;
also, much development."

"Dr. Burge," whispered I, "you claim to have devoted some time to the examination of these
delusions; but I will venture to say you have never witnessed anything so humiliating as this!"

"My dear Sir," murmured the Doctor in return, "the remark shows you to be a novice indeed.
Why, I have listened to hours of no better drivel than this, fathered, not upon Indians and
unknown elocutionists, but upon some of the wisest and most saintly spirits whose mortal teachings
ever blessed mankind."

"Do you think these people voluntary impostors?"

"No; it would be nearer the truth to say that they are voluntary victims of a mental epidemic
like that which developed itself in the St. Vitus's dance of the Middle Ages. The subjects
of that disease went through the same spasms, convulsions, and painful racking of the limbs
which accompany such cases of this personation as are not designed deceptions. Even those accidentally
present, when the effects of the ancient contagion were exhibited, became infected and were
irresistibly impelled to join in the extravagance. Look at Miss Turligood and Mr. Stellato,
and see if the parallel is not supported."

The individuals named were seen to be twisting themselves up and making an awkward sort of
obeisance to the housemaid, who (still as Red-Jacket) thus delivered herself:--

"Me goin' to dancey war-dance. Great Spirit sends lots more Indians come dancey too."

A cry of acquiescence,--perchance intended for a ghostly war-whoop,--and the beloved of my
Lord Byron broke into a savage polka.

Stellato seized a paper-knife, and proceeded to scalp a chair with merciless ferocity.

Those unfortunate ladies, Miss Branly and Miss Turligood, were unable to resist the infection,
and so sprang among the party, whirled about, and exhibited absurdities painful and unnecessary
to relate.

"By the Muse of my ancestor the Poet!" exclaimed Colonel Prowley, indignantly, "I will no longer
endure this clumsy travesty of that choric saltation with which Apollo was said to inspire
his Pythian virgins. Dr. Burge, you will oblige me by pulling down that shawl! Sister, you
will please to open the shutters of the south window!"

The requests were instantly complied with. The wholesome sunlight burst into the room, and
checked, as if by magic, the unseemly mumming of these deluded convulsionaries. Mrs. Colfodder
sank down exhausted upon the sofa. Betty ceased to be Red-Jacket. Mr. Stellato gave up his
scalping-knife, flopped feebly upon a chair, and again became a transparent jelly-fish of philosophy
and water. It was harder to bring Miss Turligood to herself, by reason of the singular intractability
of the squaw who had taken possession of the premises, and was only to be dislodged by much
tediousness of argument and adjuration. At length, however, even this was accomplished. The
Indians sulked off into space, and their terrestrial mediums once more prepared to collect
about the table.

"Why, bless me! past one, I declare!" said Miss Turligood, consulting her watch. "How spirits
do make the time pass! A brief adjournment for dinner will now take place. The circle will
meet for renewed investigation this afternoon at three o'clock. Every member will be punctual.
Remember, in this place, at three o'clock."

"Stay," said Miss Prowley, in a gentle, but at the same time decided tone; "it will not be
convenient to us to receive this party again. The presence of friends from the city, who are
in Foxden only for the day, renders a meeting this afternoon out of the question. And having
once broken up our regular sittings, it will not be worth while to resume them,--at least, here."

"But, Madam, Madam, you forget that the spirits have positively commanded us to hold sittings
in your parlor three times a day till further notice!" gasped Miss Turligood, in extreme astonishment.

"I do not recognize the authority of the spirits. They have no right to dictate the uses of
my parlor."

Here was a confession indeed on the part of Miss Prowley. Not recognize the authority of the
spirits! Miss Turligood fairly staggered, when she heard the impious announcement. The smooth
sciolist Stellato rallied his weak wits and uttered a cry of wonder at such flagitious heresy.
The future Lady Byron, taking as a deliberate insult any doubts of the identity and authority
of her posthumous spouse, threw up her arms in horror, and trotted out of the house.

Finally, we got rid of them all,--how, I don't exactly remember, and if I did, it would not
concern the reader to know. We delivered Miss Turligood over to her Irishman, (who had brought
a carryall with him this time,) and charged him never to drive her back; Betty and the cook
were restored to the kitchen; Stellato and Miss Branly disappeared, no one could say where.

"And now," exclaimed Colonel Prowley, with a sigh of relief, "let us forget this nonsense,
and go to dinner,--for the spirits have given me an appetite, if nothing else."

"Then you intend to follow what I understand to be the teaching of your invisible visitors,"
remarked Dr. Burge, pleasantly.

"How so?"

"You do not recognize Fast-Day."

"Ha! ha!" laughed the Colonel; "I doubt if the ghosts were quite unreasonable about that."

"Nay, brother, you should tell our good minister that we have but a cold collation, and that
prepared on the previous day, as is our custom on the Sabbath," urged Miss Prowley, with the
dignity of an exact and consistent housekeeper.

"It is as well we have," was the reply; "for those precious Indians, although wise in medicine,
knew little enough about cookery. They would have made sorry work, had it been necessary to
give a culinary direction to the inspirations of our damsels below-stairs."

"And yet, after all," resumed our host, meditatively, and after a moment's pause, "it seems
scarcely right to make a jest of this matter; for, although the manifestations of to-day have
been ridiculous enough,--yet--really--when I think of some of those instructive observations
of poor Sir Joseph Barley"----

The remark was never concluded, for a sudden rattling and whoaing and bumping of baggage was
heard. The interruption came from before the front-door. The "Railroad-Omnibus" had driven
up to the house.

"It is, doubtless, my good friend Professor Owlsdarck," said Colonel Prowley,--courteously
rebuking an exclamation of astonishment from his sister, who had gone to the window;--"to be
sure, we did not expect him to-day, but he is ever a most welcome guest."

"But it is not Professor Owlsdarck!" cried the sister, in shrillest tones of feminine amazement.
"That portly figure to which the pencil of the artist has done such feeble justice! the spectacles
with the square glasses! the enormous seal of the Sextons!--it can be but one man!"

"What! you don't mean"----

"Yes, but I do mean! Come and see for yourself!"

"A ghost in an omnibus! Why, sister, sister, the Detached--what-you-may-call-it has got into
your head,--or, heavens! can it be that our unbelief is punished with this frightful manifestation?"

"It is Sir Joseph Barley himself!" ejaculated Miss Prowley.

"Surrounded by his bank of silver-tunicked attendants?" gasped the Colonel, in desperate interrogation.

"No, no, nothing of the kind," said Dr. Burge, assuringly; "he has not brought even a footman."

And it was Sir Joseph Barley,--in the flesh,--and in a good deal of it, too;--Sir Joseph Barley,
full to overflowing with talk and compliments. He had long planned a journey to America, and
a surprise to his Fellow-Sexton in Foxden. The trip had been necessarily postponed from week
to week, and then from month to month. Always expecting to leave by the next steamer, he had
never thought it worth while to write. Had been on shore exactly nine hours, was delighted
with the country, and had already written the first chapter of a book about it. Was, nevertheless,
surprised to see none of the native Red Men upon the wharf when the Canada arrived. Should
have thought the spectacle would have been both novel and imposing to them. After dinner, would,
with permission, go into the forests about Foxden, and visit this singular people in their
national wigwams.

How picture the delight of hospitable Colonel Prowley, when, volubly delivering these and other
sentiments, the High Priest and Potentate over all Sextondom entered the parlor and made himself
comfortable in a rocking-chair?

There is no need to dwell upon the matronly bustle of Miss Prowley, who, utterly ignoring the
proper ordinances of the day, proceeded to send to the hotel for a beefsteak and a bottle of
British Stout which could be warranted of genuine importation.

"And stop, stop, sister!" whispered the Colonel, pursuing her to the door; "the idea seems
absurd, to be sure, but still don't you think it barely possible, that, if Betty ran down to
the river and caught a few of those snapping-turtles sunning themselves upon the old log, we
might boil them into something which would faintly remind Sir Joseph of the Lord Mayor's soup?"

This proposition being dismissed as impracticable,--first, by reason of the notorious unwillingness
of the turtles to be caught, and, waiving that objection, because of the length of time it
would take to achieve any passable imitation of the aldermanic dainty,--I was moved to an aside-declaration
to the effect that my slight observation of the tastes of British tourists in the Federal States
led to the suggestion of oysters as delicacies not wholly unlikely to find favor with their
eminent guest.

An explosion of impulsive gratitude responded to the hint. There was a new "saloon" just opened
in Main Street,--Betty should stop there and leave a generous order.

Well! it was some time before we were summoned to our amended dinner; but, when we did get
it, it was a dinner worth waiting for.

Sir Joseph Barley--Heaven bless him!--knew nothing of that smattering of Cosmos into which
we hungry New-Englanders are wont to thrust our wits. He bluntly declared that he had never
heard of Detached Vitalized Electricity, Woman's Rights, or Harmonial Development; also, he
was delightfully confident that--he, Sir Joseph Barley, British subject, not having heard of
them--they could not, by any possibility, be worth hearing about. Moreover, he had not read
a word of Carlyle, and positively did not know of the existence of any English poet called
Browning. Dr. Burge, he thoughtfully suggested, had probably mistaken the name; it was Byron,
or possibly Bulwer, about whom he wished to inquire. The former of these personages was a British
Peer, and a writer of some celebrity; he was, however, no longer living, having never recovered
from a fever he took at a place called Missolonghi, in Greece;--the latter had written a book
entitled "Pelham," once popular, but now thought inferior to a series of romances known in
Great Britain as the "Waverley Novels"; these were the work of one Scott, a native of Edinburgh,
whom George IV. honored with a baronetcy,--a splendid recompense for his great literary industry.

This, and much other information, adapted to our rude plantation in the New-England wilderness,
did Sir Joseph patronizingly impart. And it was good to meet a man with a sense of corporeal
identity so honest and satisfactory. A cynic might have said that his mind moved in rather
narrow limits. But then within those limits he was so ruddy and jubilant that I could not but
remember something Shakspeare says about the ease of being bounded in a nutshell and yet counting
one's self king of infinite space,--were it not for bad dreams. These "bad dreams" had never
retarded the British digestion of Sir Joseph Barley. No American citizen could, by any possibility,
be so shut in measureless content. It is only a very few of our well-to-do women of the Mrs.
Widesworth class--ladies inclining to knitting and corpulency in the afternoon of life--who
possess the like faculty of warming society with the blaze of an ecstatic egotism. Well, there
are moments--why not confess it? for is not man body as well as soul?--when it is a relief
to get away from our mystics, system-mongers, and peerers into the future, and claim a brotherhood
after the flesh with your average Briton, who looks out of his comfortable present only to
look into his comfortable past. Yet let this estate be temporary; for it is well to return
to our thin diet, and, instead of jolly after-dinner talk, repeat the high and aspiring phrases
of certain New-Englanders who lead the generous thought and life of a continent. Phrases! Yes,
but how many nebulous ideas, think you, would it take to stuff out their hollowness? Nay, my
objecting friend, if the ideas are not wholly clear, nor immediately practicable, they are
seldom shallow, and never mean. If the wisdom of our true seers sometimes seems poured out
in thin dilution, it nevertheless soon hardens to a thousand shining crystals upon men of worldly
enterprise and grasp. And why this digression? I think its suggestion lay in the fact that
Sir Joseph, being the type of the ordinary Englishman, held and imparted a fine sunniness of
temper, and a perfectly balanced serenity,--good gifts, which, so far as my experience goes,
are possessed in full measure by only one or two exceptional Americans, and these men of high
and acknowledged genius.

"I don't understand it, upon my honor," cried our visitor, after we had endeavored to explain
to him his own spiritual intrusion on the previous evening. "I have heard of Doctor Pordage
and the Dragon, and of the Drummer of Tedworth; but when you tell a sane British subject that
his apparition comes before him, and takes, as it were, the froth off his welcome"----

"No, no, my dear friend," interrupted Colonel Prowley, "you must know that nothing could do
that! As to the obituary I had written, it may do for some other time,--for, indeed, my felicity
in such compositions has been highly commended, and this by mundane authorities of no common
weight."

"Let us change the subject," said Sir Joseph, dryly; "I have no wish to test your powers in
that direction; and so long as I don't give up the ghost, I suppose you must."

"I would only say this," observed the Colonel,--"that in your book upon America I hope you
will not fail to declare, that, in folly, deception, and unmitigated humbug, our Foxden spirits
exceed all others ever seen or heard."

"Sir Joseph Barley would be a foolish chronicler to commit himself to any such statement,"
said Dr. Burge, who seemed to feel it his duty to speak the moral tag to our little Fast-Day
interlude. "I cannot allow that these Foxden manifestations are one whit more silly or equivocal
than many I have seen elsewhere. This shamming the ghost of somebody still alive is no uncommon
deception: several cases of the sort have come under my recent observation. And it is well
that they sometimes occur; for they must cause reflection in all who are not victims of a mental
disorder which seems to confound the reasoning powers of man,--causing its subjects to accept
as teachers phantoms of their morbid imaginations, or deceiving intelligences from without.
To all, I say, but such as these, an imposition of the sort here noticed must send reflections
of our total inability to identify any pretended spirit merely because he flatters our vanity,
or talks what may seem to us good morality or sound sense."

Dr. Burge had laid aside his knife and fork, and had launched bravely forth upon his theme.
Sir Joseph moved uneasily. Things were getting serious. Our host happily interposed,--

"Very true, Doctor, all very true;--yet there is one piece of wisdom regulating the spiritual
practice which now seems worth considering."

"And what is that, pray?"

"They do not recognize Fast-Day."

"Well, well," said Dr. Burge, taking the hint with the utmost good-humor, "perhaps they were
not altogether wrong there; and so I will trouble Miss Prowley for a bit more of the steak,
and----No, thank you, no beer for me; I am a water-drinker of twenty years' standing."

"The toast I am about to propose," observed Colonel Prowley, "may, with exceeding propriety,
be drunk in water,--that is, whenever milk-and-water is not to be had:--

"Our spiritual demagogues, much weaker than our political ones, may they not be as much worse!"

"And there is one other sentiment," said good Dr. Burge, brimming over with an honest hilarity,--"a
toast which I should be willing to drink in pretty strong--coffee."

"I have not forgotten that," exclaimed our host, proffering a hearty shake of the hand to the
High Senior Governour and Primitive Patriarch of All Sextons,--

"Health and a long life to Sir Joseph Barley!"

WASHINGTON IRVING.

We have, at last, a full story of the life of Mr. Irving. It is from the hand of a near relative,
who has brought to the task an almost filial reverence, with a modest reserve of language,
and a delicacy of treatment, which, while they disarm criticism, would of themselves suffice
to attest the kinship of the writer with the distinguished subject of his biography. It is
a quiet and tranquil picture that he has given us, of a serene and tranquil life. As we have
turned it over delightedly, chapter after chapter, and volume upon volume, we have wished at
times that the coy biographer had been endowed with a spice of garrulity or of egotism; for,
say what we will, these qualities contribute largely to the interest with which we follow the
story of a life about whose incidents and development the public has greed of knowledge.

If Boswell had invariably governed his biographic record by the instincts of a gentleman, we
should have possessed far less wealth of gossip by which to judge of the manhood and the familiar
surroundings of the great lexicographer. And we can readily imagine that a conscientious man,
in setting about the task of writing the life of a favorite author, would ask himself, over
and over, how much should be yielded to the eager curiosity of the public, and how much a refined
courtesy of feeling should keep in reserve. There are men, indeed, whose history, by whomsoever
recorded, would suggest no such questioning,--men who have elbowed their way through life,
bent upon some single aim, with a grand and coarse disregard of all the heart-burnings they
may have caused, and all the idols they may have brushed down. Washington Irving was by no
means such a man; he was kind-hearted to the last degree; and yet, remembering as we do that
sly look of humor which lurked always in the corner of his eye, we cannot believe but that
in his freer moments he has pricked through many a bag of bombast, and made dashing onslaught
upon noisy literary pretension. Of all this, however, we find nothing in the volumes before
us,--nothing in his own books. Always, in his contact with the world, he is genial; the face
of every friend is beautiful to him; every acquaintance is at the least comely; in rollicking
Tom Moore he sees (what all of us cannot see) a big heart,--in Espartero a bold, frank, honest
soldier,--in every fair young girl a charmer,--and in almost every woman a fair young girl.

In all these respects the biography of Mr. Pierre Irving is in fitting accord with what we
had known and believed of his eminent kinsman. And we are delighted at being confirmed in the
belief. We yield all measure of respect for the grace, the purity, the dignity, which Washington
Irving has added to our literature; and yet we honor still more that true American heart which
beams through all his writings, and throughout this record of his life. The rare kindliness
of the man so hallows and sublimes his memory that we half forget his artistic power, his purity
of touch, his keenness of observation, his delightful and abounding humor.

There are no storms in this life of his: it is, as we have said, a quiet picture of a career
that is full of honor indeed, full of triumphs, but full of serenity. Here is no Don Quixote
searching for enemies with whom to do battle,--no John Knox thwacking terribly upon all heretical
pates, and sweating with his obstinacy, as much as with the vigor of his blows; but the kindly
gentleman, giving tone and beauty to the common sentiment of us all, piquing our wonder by
his adroitness, kindling our smiles by his arch sallies, winning our admiration by his thousand
graces, and our respect by his honesty and truth.

In 1797, Washington Irving, a roguish lad of fifteen, living in William Street, in New York,
and not a little rebellious against the severe orthodoxy of his father,--who was a deacon of
the Presbyterian Church,--sometimes slipped out from his chamber, after evening prayers, for
an hour or two at the theatre; he attended school, where he stole the reading of such books
as "Robinson Crusoe," and "Sinbad the Sailor"; and he wrote compositions for such of his fellows
as would make good his tasks in mathematics. This was a study which he never loved, and to
the last he abjured all stringency of method. The writer of this paper remembers on one occasion
asking him what system he pursued in massing his notes for the "Life of Washington." "Don't
ask me for system," said he; "I never had any. If you want to know what a man can do by arrangement,
talk with B----; his whole mind is pigeon-holed."

At sixteen we find him in a lawyer's office; he does not, like some of his brothers, enjoy
the advantages (if there be any) of a collegiate education. But he loves law as little as he
loves mathematics. Feeble health gives occasion for frequent absences and journeyings; and
it is plain to see that he loves a voyage up the Hudson, and adventurous travel through the
wilds of Northern New York, better than he loves Judge Livingston, or the books of his law-patron,
Mr. Hoffman. He has a scribbling mood upon him at this early day, too, and contributes to the
New-York "Morning Chronicle" certain letters of Jonathan Oldstyle, which are remarked for their
pleasant humor. At the age of twenty-one (1804) continued ill-health suggests a sea-voyage.
He leaves law and his jolly companions,--Brevoort, Kemble, Paulding, and the rest,--and sails
for Bordeaux. He wanders through Southern Europe delightedly,--meets Washington Allston at
Rome, and is half tempted to turn painter,--sees Humboldt, De Staël, Cooke, Siddons; and while
all England is jubilant over Nelson's victory, and all England mourning over Nelson's death,
he sails, in 1806, for home.

Arrived in New York a sound man, he goes through a process of cramming for admission to the
bar, and is presently instated--attorney-at-law. But at the very time of his examination he
is concocting with James Paulding the project of "Salmagundi," which presently enlivens and
perplexes people with the vagaries of Launcelot Langstaff. A little after, he plans and commences
the Knickerbocker History.

But meantime an interesting episode of his life is developing, which by its unfortunate issue
is to give a certain color to all after-expression of his sentiment. The memorandum from which
this extract is taken had been originally written, it appeared, for the eye of an intimate
lady-friend abroad, to whom we shall have occasion to refer.

In 1809, at the age of twenty-six, is published his "History of New York." There were a few
punctilious Dutch families who were offended at its sallies; but cultivated people generally
welcomed its fun, its spirit, its quiet satire, with heartiness and applause.

Shortly after he entered into a commercial partnership with his brothers, Peter and Ebenezer,
of whom one was established in England, the other in New York. In the War of 1812 we find him
acting as military aid to Governor Tompkins; and in 1815 he embarks again for Europe. He passes
many years in England, in the course of which time the commercial firm, of which he is a member
goes into bankruptcy. Upon this, he is of course thrown adrift. But through the influence of
his friends at home he is offered the position of Chief Clerk of the Navy Department, with
a salary of twenty-four hundred dollars a year. This, however, after some misgivings, he declines.
He does not like the idea of being cramped by official routine of duty. He will try what he
can do with his pen. And for months after making this decision (we have heard it with unction
from his own lips) he can do nothing. His friend Allston is going back to America; Leslie is
making a reputation; and he, a bankrupt, and having wantonly thrown up the chance for a lucrative
position at home, is suddenly bereft of all capacity for literary work; he makes trial; but
it is in vain. The "Sketch-Book" is floating in his thought; but he cannot commit its graces
to paper.

The months roll on; something must be done; the secretaryship at home is abandoned; he must
try again; he does try; he sends off "Sketch-Book No. I." to America. We know what came of
it: success, delight. Number upon number followed. There was an early republication, under
the author's auspices, in London. He was fêted: it was so odd that an American should write
with such control of language, with such a play of fancy, with such pathetic grace. There was
a kind of social furor to meet and to see the man who, notwithstanding his Transatlantic birth,
had conquered all the witchery of British speech, who knew its possible delicacies of expression,
and who graced it with a humor that reminded of Goldsmith.

No American author had ever dreamed of such ovation before: an ovation not due to any incisive
thought, not due to any novelty of his subject-matter,--but due to the fact that a man born
overseas had suddenly appeared among British writers, who could lay hold upon their own resources
of sentiment, and inwrap it in language which charmed them by its grace and provoked them by
its purity.

Mr. Murray entered upon the publication of the "Sketch-Book" in 1820, Mr. Irving being at that
time thirty-seven years of age. Of his pleasant intimacy with Sir Walter Scott, of his junketings
in Paris, of his meeting with Tom Moore, of his unfortunate enlistment in a steamboat-enterprise
upon the Seine, there is full and most lively account in the "Life and Letters" before us.
"Bracebridge Hall," despatched from Paris in 1822, is received with the same favor which had
attended the publication of the "Sketch-Book"; and the pecuniary returns are so liberal that
he can lie upon his oars for a while, and (what pleases him more) can effectually aid his brother
Peter, who was a party to the unfortunate steamboat-scheme.

After this comes a merry whirl through Europe. The Rhine, Heidelberg, Munich, Vienna, we visit
again in his sparkling letters, dated forty odd years ago. His reputation, and the good offices
of French and English friends, open an easy path for him; everywhere he finds hospitality and
acquaintances, and everywhere, by that frank, genial manner of his, he transmutes even chance
acquaintances into confidential friends. The winter of 1822-3 is passed in the delightful city
of Dresden. He meets with a warm welcome at the little Saxon court; he has the entrée of a
pleasant English household, where he becomes fairly domesticated. Mrs. Foster, its accomplished
mistress, is a lady of fortune, who has two "lovely daughters." Mr. Irving, in concert with
two or three gentlemen-friends, organizes certain home-theatricals, in which the Misses Foster
engage with ready zeal and a charming grace. There are Italian readings, and country-excursions,
to all of which Mr. Irving is a delighted party. He hardly knows how to tear himself away from
scenes so enchanting. To Miss Foster he writes, on the occasion of a little foray into Bohemia,--"I
am almost wishing myself back already. I ought to be off like your bird, but I feel I shall
not be able to keep clear of the cage." Mrs. Foster, with a womanly curiosity, is eager to
know how a man so susceptible as Mr. Irving, and so domestically inclined, should have reached
the mature age of forty as a bachelor. Mr. Irving amiably gratifies her curiosity by detailing
to her the story of his early and unfortunate attachment, in the shape of the memorandum to
which we have already alluded. He closes this confidential disclosure by saying,--"You wonder
why I am not married.

We have dwelt upon this little episode, not because it has any essential importance in itself,
but because it has been the subject of a most unseemly interpolation in the British reprint
of the biography. Mr. Bentley, "Publisher in Ordinary to Her Majesty," was, it appears, the
purchaser, at a small sum, of the advance-sheets of the book; but, in order to secure English
copyright, he conceived the idea of introducing extraneous matter of British origin. In prosecution
of this design, he found as collaborateurs the two Misses Foster above alluded to, who are
now wives of clergymen of the Church of England. Mrs. Fuller, the elder of the sisters, and
the special favorite of the author, gives upon the whole a modest and pleasant account of their
association with Mr. Irving, and closes with a few lines which, she says, he wrote in her scrap-book
in 1832. "He declared it was impossible for him to be less in a writing-mood." And thereupon
follow the well-known lines entitled "Echo and Silence." They certainly do not prove very much
for the writing-mood of Mr. Irving,--whatever they may prove for Sir Egerton Brydges. The contribution
of the younger sister, Mrs. Flora Dawson, is in a somewhat exaggerated and melodramatic vein,
in the course of which she takes occasion to expend a great deal of pity upon "poor Irving,"
who is made to appear in the character of a rejected suitor for the hand of her sister. It
is true that the testimony of Mr. Irving's biographer, and of his private papers, is largely
against this absurdly romantic construction; but, although it had been perfectly authentic,
it is almost incredible that a lady of delicacy should make such blazon of the affair, for
the sake of securing a copyright to "Her Majesty's Publisher in Ordinary." We are sorry that
Mrs. Dawson has not made a better début in literature. As for Mr. Bentley, we can characterize
his conduct in the matter only by the word--disgraceful. In the whole history of griping literary
piracies (of which Americans must bear their share) we can recall no one which shows so bad
a taste, and so bad a faith, as this of Mr. Bentley, the "Publisher in Ordinary to Her Majesty."

In the year 1824 we find Mr. Irving at work in Paris chambers upon the "Tales of a Traveller";
then follow three or four joyous and workful years in Spain, between Madrid, Seville, and the
Alhambra. We have all tasted the fruit of that pleasant sojourn; "Columbus" is on every library-shelf;
and we remember a certain dog's-eared copy of the "Conquest of Granada" which once upon a time
set all the boys of a certain school agog with a martial furor. How we shook our javelins at
some bewildered cow blundering into the play-ground! What piratical forays we made upon the
neighbors' orchards, after the manner of the brave old Muley Aben Hassan! And as for the Alhambra,
the tinkle of the water in the marble basins of its court is lingering on our ears even yet.

In Spain, as elsewhere, Mr. Irving makes a circle of friends about him whom it is hard to leave;
but it must be. Accusing comrades at home say he has deserted his country; he turns his face
Westward at last, and, full of honors, sails for New York once more, in the year 1832, at the
ripe age of forty-nine. There never was a warmer welcome given to a returning citizen. A feast
is made for him, at which all the magnates of the city of Manhattan assist; and the author's
sensibility is so touched that he can make only stammering acknowledgments,--at which the cheers
and the plaudits are heartier than ever.

After this comes the opening of that idyllic life at Sunnyside,--the building of the gables,
the gilding of the weather-cocks, the planting of the ivies. "Astoria" and "Bonneville" and
the "Tour on the Prairies" keep his hand active and his brain in play. Near and dear relatives
relieve his bachelor home of all loneliness. Nine years or more have passed after his return,
when he is surprised--and not a little shocked--by his appointment, at the instance of Mr.
Webster, as Minister to Madrid.

He cannot resist the memories of the Alhambra, of Seville, of the Guadalquivir. Many pleasant
associations are revived in England, in France, and not a few in the now revolutionary Spain.
But it is plain to see that the official visit is not so enjoyable as the old untrammelled
life in the Peninsula. No matter how light the duties, routine is a harness that galls him.
We can almost hear his cheer of thanksgiving as he breaks away from it, and comes once more
to his cherished home of Sunnyside. He is not an old man yet, though he counts well into the
sixties. He contrives new additions to his cottage; he dashes off the charming "Life of Goldsmith"
at a heat. His older books come pouring from the press, and are met with the cordial welcome
of new ones.

His brothers, to whom he had been so fondly knit, are all gone save one; Brevoort is gone;
Kemble is just above him, at his forge, under the lee of the Highlands. The river by quiet
Tarrytown is strung up and down with new "gentlemen's places."

He puts himself resolutely at work upon the "Life of Washington." Frequently recurring illness,
and a little shakiness in his step, warn him that his time is nearly up. He knows it. There
is only one more task to make good. We hear of him at Mount Vernon, at Arlington, at Saratoga.
Volume by volume the work comes forward. The public welcome it,--for they love the author,
and they love the subject. Three volumes,--four volumes; and there are rumors that the old
gentleman is failing. But whoever finds admission to that delightful home of Sunnyside meets
the old smile, the old cheer. Seventy years have shaken the frame, but have not shaken the
heartiness of the man. The jest leaps from his eye before his lip can clothe it, as it did
twenty years before. There is a friendly pat for his little terrier, and a friendly word for
his gardener, as in the old days.

The fifth volume is in progress; but there is a cough that distresses him sorely. He pushes
on, however, through his task. The step is growing feebler and the cough more annoying. It
is the year 1859, and the seventy-seventh of his age, when, upon a certain November evening,
with one little sharp cry of pain, he falls upon his chamber-floor--dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are men whose works we admire, but for whose lives we care nothing. Mr. Irving was not
one of them. There is such a manly heartiness in him that we crave close contact: we cannot
know him too well. Surely, this sympathy of readers, spontaneous, inevitable, will keep his
name always green. There may come greater purists,--though they must con the language well;
writers of more dramatic power we have now, possibly a quainter humor,--but one more tender,
that puts us in such immediate sympathy with the author, hardly in our day, or in any day,
shall we see again.

It is plain enough that Mr. Irving depended largely on his friendships,--that, unconsciously,
his courage for meeting and conquering whatever of difficulty lay in his path was fed very
much by the encouraging words of those he loved and respected. His were no brawny shoulders
to push their way, no matter what points were galled by contact,--no self-asserting, irresistible
press of purpose, which is careless of opinion. Throughout, we see in his kindly nature a longing
for sympathy: if from those intellectually strong, so much the better; if from dear friends,
better yet; if from casual acquaintances, still it is good and serviceable to him, and helps
him to keep his poise.

He is a man, too, who clearly shuns controversy, who does not like to take blows or to give
blows, and whose intellectual life and development find shape and color from this dread of
the combative. Not that he is without a quiet power and exercise of satire,--not that follies
which strike his attention do not get a thrust from his fine rapier; but they are such follies,
for the most part, as everybody condemns. By reason of this quality in him, he avoids strongly
controverted points in history; or, if his course lies over them, he gives a fairly adjusted
average of opinion; he is not in mood for trenchant assertions of this or that belief. This
same quality, again, makes him shun political life. He has a horror of its wordy wars, its
flood of objurgation. Not that he is without opinions, calmly formed, and firmly held; but
the entertainment of kindred belief he does not make the measure of his friendships. His character
counted on the side of all charity, of forbearance, against harsh judgments; it was largely
and Christianly catholic, as well in things political as literary. He never made haste to condemn.

There is a rashness in criminating this retirement from every-day political conflicts which
is, to say the least, very short-sighted. Extreme radicalism spurns the comparative inactivity,
and says, "Lo, a sluggard!" Extreme conservatism spurns it, and says, "Lo, a coward!" It is
only too true that cowards and sluggards both may take shelter under a shield of indifference;
but it is equally true that any reasonably acute mind, if only charitably disposed, can readily
distinguish between an inactivity which springs from craven or sluggish propensity, and that
other which belongs to constitutional temperament, and which, while passing calm and dispassionate
judgment upon excesses of opinion of either party, contributes insensibly to moderate the violence
of both.

But whatever may have been Mr. Irving's reluctance to ally himself intimately with political
affairs, and to assume advocacy of special measures, it is certain that he never failed in
open-hearted, outspoken utterance for the cause of virtue, of human liberty, and of his country.
There were vulgar assailants, indeed, who alleged at one time that he had thoroughly denationalized
himself by his long absences. The charge he always regarded as an affront, and met with scorn.
There are those so grossly constituted as to measure a man's love of his own country by the
sneers he flings at the country of others. It was not in Mr. Irving's nature to sneer at even
an enemy; it was not his way of making conquest. He recognized fully the advantages of a foreign
life (at his date) in following up that career of belles-lettres study which he had marked
out for himself. The free entrée of European libraries and galleries, and familiar association
with a class of cultivated men of leisure, (in countries where such a class exists,) offered
opportunity for refining his taste, for enlarging his stock of available material, and for
stimulating his mental activity, of which he was not slow to perceive the value, and of which
he has given ample account.

There is much that is interesting in the Life before us in regard to Mr. Irving's habit of
work. He was, like most men of extreme sensitiveness, moody; at times his mind seemed all aglow;
he wrote, on such occasions, with extraordinary rapidity, and with that cheery appreciation
of his labor which to any author is an immense stimulant. But following upon these happy humors
came seasons of wearisome depression; the stale manuscript of yesterday lost its charm; the
fancy refused to be lighted; he has not the heart to hammer at the business with dull, lifeless
blows, and flings down his pen in despair. There are successive months during which this mood
hangs upon him like an incubus; then it passes suddenly, like a cloud, and the air (as at Seville)
wooes him to his charmingest fancies.

We do not propose a critical estimate of the books of Mr. Irving. We have neither space nor
present temper for this. The world has indorsed his great popularity with the heart, as much
as with the brain. There are those who have objected that the last subject of his labor--the
"Life of Washington"--was little suited to his imaginative tone of mind, and should have been
worked up with a larger and more philosophic grasp of thought. It may well be that at some
future time we shall have a more profound estimate of the relations which our great Leader
held to his cause and to his time; but, however profound and just such a work may be, we feel
quite safe in predicting that it will never supplant the graceful labor of Mr. Irving in the
hearts of the American people. Precisely what was wanted Mr. Irving has given: such charming,
faithful, truthful picture of the great hero of our Revolution as should carry knowledge of
him, of the battles he fought, of his large, self-denying, unswerving patriotism, of the purity
of his life, into every household. No man could have done this work better; nor do we think
any other will ever do it as well.

And there is his "Sketch-Book,"--in blue and gold, in green and gold, in red and gold;--in
what colors, and in what language, does it not appear? Yet the themes are of the simplest:
a broken heart; a rural funeral; a Christmas among the hollies; an hour in the Abbey of Westminster:
what is there new, or to care greatly for, in these things? Yet he touched them, and all the
world are touched by them. Your critic says there is no serious insight, no deep probing; a
pretty wind blows over,--that is all.

Yes, that is all; but how many are there who can set such sweet currents of wind aflow?

Only a bruised daisy, only a wounded hare, only Halloween,--and Burns, with all his fresh,
healthy, hearty manhood, and only a peasant's pen, touches them in such way that his touch
is making the nerves of men and women vibrate, where-ever our Saxon speech is uttered.

There is many a light thing that we cherish,--with which we will not easily part. That souvenir
of some dear, dead one we do not value by its weight in gold; that sweet story of the Vicar
we do not measure by its breadth of logic. And no American, no matter how late born he may
be, but, if he wander in the Catskills, shall hear the rumble of the Dutch revellers at their
bowling in the gorges of the mountains,--not one but shall read, and reading shall love, the
story of Rip Van Winkle.

It was only a quiet old gentleman of six-and-seventy who was buried awhile ago from his home
upon the Hudson: yet the village-shops were all closed; the streets, the houses, the station,
were hung in black; thousands from the city thirty miles away thronged the high-road leading
to the little church where prayers were to be said.

How shall we explain this? The author is dead, indeed, whose writings were admired by all;
but there is something worthier to be said than this:--At the little church lay the body of
the man whom all men loved.

THE RIM.

PART II.

Affairs went smoothly and noiselessly on for some three months. Mr. St. George had received
the congratulations of the neighborhood, who, perceiving that Éloise still remained at The
Rim, presumed all was satisfactory; and Éloise refused herself to all, the better by reason
of her term of mourning. The slaves on the estate no longer infected others with the result
of bad government; their association with the Blue-Bluffs people, a notoriously bad set, as
well they might be, was broken up; they felt, though the reins hung freely and the burden was
light, that there was a strong hand behind them that knew how to pull them up or put them in
the dust, and they learned so much respect and even love for that hand as never to presume
on the fact that it would not perhaps choose to exert its full power; work was well done; there
was no further trespassing on other precincts; the world was in perfect order, so far as St.
George's administration of it extended. He was, moreover, a man of distinction; serving, young
as he was, four terms in Congress from a distant district, he was already spoken of again as
the candidate of the immediate vicinity; his advice was sought in a hundred matters about which
he knew nothing at all,--and always given, in spite of the last-mentioned circumstance; he
had a careless, easy way of taking the life out of a man's mouth, so to speak, and disposing
of it for that man's advantage as he himself pleased, so that the man felt under an infinite
obligation; he had, too, an air with him of such superiority over the ills of life, such undoubted
kingliness, that every one succumbed and rested gladly on so firm a precedent. Mr. St. George
in this brief time had accepted much hospitality, had won a thousand friends, and by Christmas
had made himself, through his genial strength to-day and his sardonic sarcasm to-morrow, as
thoroughly the autocrat of all the region as ever Mr. Erne had been. For all that men want
is a master; give them somebody that will lead, and glad enough are they to follow. But Mr.
Erne's supremacy had merely been a matter of birth and of kindly feeling; Mr. St. George's
was, first, because he choose to have it, and secondly, because nobody was able to refuse it.
Marlboro's masterliness was quite another thing, affected no clusters of men, and was felt
only by those whom he owned, body and soul.

In the mean time, the family seldom saw Mr. St. George, and when they did, he was so stately
that they would have been quite willing to shut their eyes. They forgot, however, that, when
you insist on being yourself an iceberg, you really cool the air about you. Once, indeed, or
twice, there had been brief, but notable exceptions in his conduct.

A period of heavy rains had just elapsed, and Éloise, weary of confinement, had gone on the
first clear day strolling round the place, as secure as in a drawing-room, since there was
not one of her father's people but adored her.

"You are going out, Miss Changarnier?" Mr. St. George had remarked at the door; and, on being
answered, he had added in a soliloquy, as if not deigning a second address for a second rebuff,--"It
will be quite impossible to go far, for the freshet has swollen the brooks into rivers."

Éloise, however, took no notice of the information, and went on her way, strolled farther than
she had intended, and forded a brook because Mr. St. George had said she could not. Then she
sat down under a branching tree that dropped its leaves about her and into the brook, and began
to read the "Romaunt of the Rose": at least, I fancy that was the book she had. While she remained,
the brook swirling ever louder between the pauses, the sunset ran red in the sky and warned
her to hasten home. But she disregarded the warning till purple shadows fell softly on the
page, and stars and moon stole out to peer above her shoulder and see what it was that so entranced
the maiden. Rising hurriedly, she moved away; and only when she had crossed two or three of
the stepping-stones did she perceive, on looking down, that, while she had been reading, the
water had risen above the next ones with a depth that the failing light forbade her to see.
Standing there, and bending dizzily forward to guess the strength of the dark stream now so
loudly and rapidly rushing by, there came a noise like a bursting water-spout; suddenly her
waist was seized, and she was swept back to the shore. The next instant, with a seething sound,
a great uprooted oak tore along the very spot on which she had stood.

"Seeking danger for the pleasure of escape?" said a cool voice in her ear, as her feet were
planted on dry land. "A little excitement spices our still life so well!"

"Mr. St. George! how dare you?" cried Éloise, freeing herself.

"What would you have had me do? Should I have stood here, letting I dare not wait upon I would,
like the cat i' the adage, while the oak caught and rushed you off to sea? Too big a broomstick
for such a little witch!"

"You should not have been here at all, Sir!"

"There shall be thanks in all the churches, next Sunday, that I was."

"At least, Sir, I can spare further aid."

"Play Undine and the Knight on the island? It wouldn't be at all safe,--it wouldn't be proper,
you know," said Mr. St. George, raising his eyebrows. "The dam that shuts up the irrigating
waters broke an hour ago," added he, in the tone of another person. "I sent servants to find
you, in every direction, and happened this way myself."

Éloise was a little sobered.

"I am much obliged to you, Sir," she said.

"So it seems," he replied, dryly. "I shall be forced to offend you again," he continued, "as
further delay will render the stream entirely impassable."

And before she could utter a syllable of deprecation, she had swung a brief moment in the air,
and was upon the other side, up which Mr. St. George, in his high seven-league boots, clambered
so soon as he had set her down. Instead of venturing any new display of indignation, as St.
George expected, Éloise walked on with him quietly a moment, and then, looking up, said,--

"You are very kind, and I am very ungracious."

Mr. St. George did not deny her assertion, only he glanced down at her from his height a second
with an inexplicable expression, and immediately after the house became visible bowed low and
left her.

"There's been such a tantrum, Miss," said the quadroon Hazel, combing out Éloise's hair that
night, "and Massa St. George's horse waited two mortal hours to take him to Blue Bluffs. You
ought to have heard him swear! He galloped off at last like mad."

And as Éloise gave no response, unless the cloud on her face spoke for her in the glass, the
familiar girl added,--

"Not at you, Miss, not swearing at you,--oh, no, indeed!--but at all of us, to think we'd let
you go alone."

"Mr. St. George is too solicitous. That will do, Hazel. Have you spoken to your master about
buying Vane?"

"Laws, Miss, I never feels as if he was any master of mine, leastwise excep' one can't help
minding him. 'S different from ole Massa,--we minded ole Massa for lub,--but I dunno if it's
the music, when Massa St. George speaks, that makes you do what he says, when you just don't
mean to,--as if you couldn't help it, and didn't want to help it?" suggested Hazel.

"Mr. St. George," said Éloise, "is very good to his people; they ought to wish to obey him."

"Yes, Miss. On'y he a'n't no business here."

"Don't let me hear you speak so again, Hazel," said Éloise, facing the suddenly cringing girl.
"Now you can go."

But Hazel lingered still, over one and another odd trifle, and at length glancing up from where
she stooped, with a scarlet on her young tawny cheek, she added, in a low voice,--

"You'll speak to Massa St. George now for me, won't you, Miss?"

"What? About Vane? You would do better yourself. Yes."

Two or three days passed away after this little promise to Hazel, before Éloise, at first forgetting
it, and then dreading it, could gather courage to proceed in the negotiations for the handmaiden's
suit. She was vaguely aware that she was the last person in the world whose past conduct harmonized
with the asking of favors, and she silently offered slight propitiatory sacrifices. Yet she
did this so haughtily, in order still not to compromise her own dignity, that they would quite
as well have answered the purpose of belligerent signals.

It was one afternoon that Éloise sat at the drawing-room window, having recently finished her
day's work, and letting herself linger now in a place which she very rarely so much as passed
through. She sat erect, just then,--her head thrown far back, and the eyelids cast down along
the pale face. Mr. St. George came into the room noiselessly, and laid down his riding-whip
and gloves. Then he paused, struck by her appearance, and admired her motionless attitude for
several minutes.

"One sits for Mnemosyne," he said then.

Éloise lifted her eyes, and a ghost of color flitted along her cheek. Here was a fortunate
moment; the deity of it unbent and smiled. Her heart beat in her throat between the words of
her thought; yet she recalled, for support, all the romances she had read, and their eloquent
portraitures of love, and, remembering that just as Rebecca loved Ivanhoe, as Paolo loved Francesca,
so Hazel and Vane loved each other, "I must! I must!" she kept saying chokingly to herself.
Mr. St. George had taken up a book. How should she dare disturb him? At last a hesitating voice
came sliding towards him,--

"Mr. St. George"----

"I beg your pardon,--did you speak?" he asked, closing his book.

"Mr. St. George, I want to ask you a favor," replied Éloise.

She rose, and unconsciously with such an air that he saw her effort, then came and sat on a
lower seat directly before him.

"When papa, when my dear father was living," said she, "I had a maid, who was always mine,
who grew up with me, being only a little younger, and I became attached to her"----

And before Éloise knew it she was lightly playing with Mr. St. George's riding-whip,--that
being one of her warm traits just out of Nature, the appropriation of everything about her.

"And you have her no longer? That shall be attended to."

"Oh, yes, Sir, she waits on me still; that isn't it. She is only seventeen, she has been an
atom wayward,--just, you know, as I might have been"----

Mr. St. George smiled so perceptibly that Éloise added, throwing back her head again,--

"Just as I am, Sir! But she has behaved very nicely for several----Why, this is Mrs. Arles's
whip! the one her husband gave her. I knew it by the ivory vine-stem twining the ebony; and
there are her initials in the lovely gold chasing. I used to want it to play with, when I was
a little girl,--and she wouldn't let me have it, of course. Pretty initials!"

"Yes," said Mr. St. George, coldly.

Éloise put it down. And then she stared at him forgetfully, and, unthinkingly, with great disappointed
eyes. Thereat Mr. St. George laughed.

"Don't Russian women present the knout to their bridegrooms?" asked Éloise then, mischievously.

But before he could have replied, she resumed,--

"Well, Sir, Hazel is very pretty"----

"It is Hazel, then? Would you like her to be made more distinctly yours, Miss Éloise?"

"Oh, dear, no, Sir, thank you. That isn't it at all. Hazel is in love."

"Indeed!"

"She is in love with Vane, a boy of Mr. Marlboro's: you may have seen him; he is here a good
deal,--by stealth: and they want to be married. But Mr. Marlboro' is their terror, he may put
an end to everything, and they are afraid, and--and--could you buy Vane, Mr. St. George?"

"I could, Miss Changarnier."

"And you will, then?" cried Éloise, springing up.

"If Mr. Marlboro' will sell him."

"Won't he?"

"It is a pride of the Marlboro's that there never was a hand sold off the place."

"Oh, I had forgotten. They would tell too shocking stories."

"Not here. Not unless they were sold off the Cuban plantation, where the vicious ones are transported."

"But perhaps he would give him to you."

"Miss Éloise, he would give him to you."

"Me? I have never seen him."

"That is of no consequence. He has seen you."

"I wonder where. Do you really suppose that Mr. Marlboro' would give Vane to me?"

"Miss Éloise, I will see what I can do about it first."

"How kind you are! Thank you!"

And Éloise was about to go.

"One moment, if you please," said the other.

And Mr. St. George remained in meditation. When he spoke, it was not in too assured a tone.

"I am quite aware," said he, "that you consider me in the light of an enemy. Perhaps it is
a magnanimity that would be pleasant to you, should you in turn grant that enemy a favor."

"I should like to be able to serve you, Sir."

"Well, then,--I spoke very unwisely a few moments since,--promise me now, that, if Hazel and
Vane do not marry till Doomsday, you will not ask Marlboro' for the gift. It places you, an
unprotected girl, too much under the weather with such a man as Marlboro'. You promise me?"

And he rose opposite her, smiling and gazing.

"A whole promise is rash," said Éloise, laughing. "Half a one I give you."

"It is for yourself," said Mr. St. George, grimly; and he turned abruptly away, because he
knew he lied, and was afraid lest she would know it too.

It was two or three weeks after this, that Mr. St. George, returning one chilly night from
some journey, found Mrs. Arles asleep in her chair, a fire upon the hearth, and Éloise sitting
on the floor before it with her box and brushes, essaying to catch the shifting play of color
opposite her, and paint there one of the great cloven tongues of fire that went soaring up
the chimney.

"In pursuit of an ignis-fatuus?" asked he, stooping over her an instant, and suddenly snatching
himself erect, as she looked up with a certain sweetness in her smile, and pushed back the
drooping tress, that, streaming along the temple and lying in one large curve upon the cheek,
sometimes fell too low for order, though never for grace.

"And all in vain," she said, laughingly. "I've worked an hour, I can get the violet edges,
I can get the changing bend,--but there 'a no lustre, no flicker,--I can't find out the secret
of painting flame."

"It is a secret you found out long ago!" muttered Mr. St. George, unintelligibly, and strode
out, banging the door behind him.

And Éloise, astonished and dismayed, abruptly put up her pencils, and went to bed.

So that, when Mr. St. George returned a half-hour afterward for a cheerful fireside-season
over nuts and wine, there was nobody there but Mrs. Arles, who picked herself up out of her
nap, and went placidly on with her tatting and contrivances.

Two stragglers on the ice-fields of the polar seas would have met each other with less frozen
chill than St. George and Éloise did on the succeeding morning. And in that chill a long period
elapsed, during which Mr. St. George attended to his affairs, and Éloise silently cast up her
accounts.

       *       *       *       *       *

One morning in the spring, after the last of the soft and balmy winter, Mr. St. George said
to Mrs. Arles, at breakfast,--

"A dozen rooms, or more, can be ready by Wednesday? There will be guests at noon, for several
weeks. That is the list. I rely on Miss Changarnier's assistance." And he handed her a paper,
and went out.

"It will be useless for you to keep your room now," said Mrs. Arles to Éloise, on Wednesday
morning. "It isn't like Mr. St. George's bachelor parties with Marlboro' and Montgomery and
Mavoisie, when I like to see you keep to yourself as you do. These are all old friends."

"I shall still have my work to do," said Éloise; and she went into the cabinet and sharpened
her pens with a vim.

It would doubtless have relieved Mr. St. George of much annoyance and perplexity, if Éloise
would have assumed her old place in welcoming the guests; but that was not set down in her
part, and Éloise rightly felt that it would be a preposterous thing for her to do. And though,
when she heard their voices in the hall, she longed just to open the door and give one glance
at Laura Murray sweeping by, or draw Lottie Humphreys in through the crack and indulge in one
quick squeeze, she heroically bent herself upon the debit and credit beneath her eye, and tried
to forget all about it,--succeeding only in remembering who had lived and who had died since
the last time that hall had rung with their voices.

It was past noon when Éloise, having finished her task, and having remained for a long time
with her arms upon the desk and her hands upon her eyes, suddenly glanced up and saw a gentleman
entering the cabinet, where no gentleman but one was ever allowed to enter. He was in search
of a book; and scanning the shelves, his eye fell on her.

He hesitated for a single atom of time, then stepped rapidly forward, and said,--

"Miss Changarnier, I am quite sure."

"Allow me," said quickly another voice at his shoulder, "to present to Miss Changarnier Mr.
Marlboro'." For Mr. St. George had entered just in time.

Mr. Marlboro' was a slight man, hardly to be called tall. He wore black, of course, the coat
fastened on the breast and letting out just a glimpse of ruffled linen and glancing jewel below,
while the lofty brow, set in its fair curling hair, and the peaked beard curling and waving
about the throat, gave him the appearance of a Vandyck stepped from the frame. He had the further
peculiarity of eyes, dark hazel eyes, that would have glowed like fever, if they were not perpetually
wrapped in dream. There was a certain air of careful breeding about him, different from Earl
St. George Erne's high-bred bearing, inasmuch as he insisted upon his pedigree and St. George
forgot his. Too fiery a Southerner to seek the advantages of Northern colleges, he had educated
himself in England, and had contracted while at Oxford the habit of eating opium. Returning
home at his majority, and remaining long enough to establish his own ideas, which were peculiarly
despotic, upon his property,--through many subsequent travels, tasting in each an experience
of all the folly and madness the great capitals of the world afford, through all his life,
indeed, this habit was the only thing Marlboro' had not mastered. One other thing, albeit,
there was, of which Marlboro' was the slave, and that was the Marlboro' temper.

Éloise returned his salutation cordially, and with a certain naughty pleasure, since Mr. St.
George was looking on, and since that person, constituting himself her grim guardian, had in
a manner warned her of the other. Then she displayed her pretty little ink-stained hands, and
ran away.

Mr. Marlboro' looked after her, and then turned to survey St. George.

"Who would not be the Abélard to such an Éloise?" he said.

There was no answer. St. George was filling a pipe, and whistling the while a melancholy old tune.

"I'll tell you what, St. George"----

Here he paused, and thrummed on the book in time to the tune.

"You were about to impart some information?"

"Has your little nun taken the black veil?"

"It is no nun of my shriving."

"Are you King Ahasuerus himself, to have lived so long in the house with Miss Changarnier,
may I ask, and to have thrown no handkerchief?"

"There is some confusion in your rhetoric. But it is not I who am tyrant,--it is she who stands
for that;--I am only Mordecai the Jew sitting in the king's gate. As so many Jews do to-day,"
muttered St. George,--"ay, and on their thrones, too. I am afraid we are neither of us very
well up in our Biblical history. She is the Grand Unapproachable."

"Tant mieux. My way is all the clearer."

"Your way to what?"

"To the altar!"

"Yes, you should have married long ago, Marlboro'," said Mr. St. George, the pipe being lighted,
the face looming out of azure wreaths, and the heels taking an altitude.

"I came home," said Marlboro', "to marry Éloise Changarnier."

"That is exactly what I intend to do myself."

"You!"

Mr. Marlboro's eyes glistened like a topaz in the sun; but just then a new guest arriving demanded
Mr. St. George's attention.

Meantime Éloise had found a feminine conclave assembled in her room, all having prepared their
own toilets, and ready to inspect the preparation of hers; and as the work proceeded, Lottie
Humphreys added herself to the group, in grand tenue, and pushed Hazel aside, that she might
bind up Éloise's already braided hair, and indulge herself in the interim with sundry fervent
ejaculations.

"Isn't he splendid?" whispered Lottie, while Laura compared bracelets with Emma Houghton. "Oh,
there, isn't he splendid? It's like the king coming down from his throne, when he speaks to
you; it puts my heart in a flutter. How do you dare ask him to pass the butter? Now just tell
me. Are you engaged to him? Tell me truly, only shake your head, yes or no. No? I don't believe
a word you say. Mean to be? Then, I declare----Suppose now, only just suppose, suppose he'd
look at me?"

"Oh, what a silly little goose you are, Lottie Humphreys! And you've put geraniums in my hair,
when I meant to wear those beautiful blue poison-bells!"

"I never saw any one so dark as you are wear so much blue."

"But it's becoming to me, isn't it?" said Éloise, turning with her smile, as radiant for Lottie
as for Marlboro'.

"St. George," said Marlboro', with a beaming face bent over his shoulder, as he took Éloise
out to dinner, "my intention was the earlier; it will succeed!"

"As being the eldest born and heir to the succession. Does the good general expose his campaign?"

"There we are quits. It is precisely as a good general that I exposed it."

"But did the Levites unveil the sacred ark?" said Mr. St. George, severely.

"We are talking freemasonry, Miss Changarnier," said Marlboro', and they moved on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whether she would or not, Éloise found herself in exactly the same position in the house as
before her adopted father's death,--partly because almost all the company, being old friends,
recognized no difference, partly because Mr. St. George silently chose it should be so. She
soon forgot herself entirely in the pleasure of it, and was unconsciously, even towards Mr.
St. George, so sweet and genial, so blithe and bewitching, that his scanning glance would suddenly
have to fall, since an expression, he felt, entered it that he dared not have her see. There
was always a certain disarray about the costume of Éloise; one tress of her hair was always
drooping too low, or one thrust back behind the beautiful temple and tiny ear, or a bracelet
was half undone, or a mantle dropping off,--trifles that only gave one the desire to help her;
she constantly wore, too, a scarf or shawl, or something of the kind, and the drapery lent
her a kind of tender womanliness, which only such things do; then, too, she garnished her hair
with flowers always half falling away, somewhat faded with the warmth, and emitting strong,
rich fragrances in dying. When she laughed, and the brilliant little teeth sparkled a contrast
with the dark smooth skin, when she thought, and her eyes glowed like tear-washed stars, Mr.
St. George was wont to turn abruptly away from the vision, unwilling to be so controlled. But
of that Éloise never dreamed.

As for Marlboro', on the other hand, he was the moth in the candle. Of Mr. Marlboro's devotion
Éloise was quite aware,--and whereas, playing with it the least bit in the world, she had at
first enjoyed it, it grew to irk her sadly; she used to beg her friends, in all manner of pretty
ways, to take him off her hands, and would resort from her own rooms to theirs, assisting at
their awful rites, and endeavoring to get them up as charmingly as possible, that they might
lure away her trouble. It was in vain that Marlboro' tried to reopen the subject of their mute
warfare with St. George. St. George would not condescend, neither would he sully Éloise's name
by bandying it about with another lover. If Marlboro' begged him to toss up for chances, St.
George answered that he never threw up a chance; when he went further and offered to stake
success or loss, St. George told him he had cast his last die; when he would have spoken her
name to him directly, St. George withered him with flamy eyes, and let his manner become too
rigid for one to dare more with him. But the ladies had already caught the spirit of the thing,
and made little situations of it among themselves. Then when St. George became impregnable
to his attacks, Marlboro' pulled his blonde moustache savagely, and grew sullen, and fortunately
Éloise did not try to dispel the cloud. Nevertheless, Marlboro' fancied that he perceived victory
hovering nearer to St. George than himself, and a rivalry begun in good-humor was likely to
take a different cast. In his pique, Marlboro' bade his host farewell, and returned to Blue
Bluffs; but it was idle riding, for every day found him again at The Rim, like the old riddle,--

    "All saddled, all bridled, all fit for a fight,"

and constant as the magnet to its poles.

It was still the steps of Éloise that Marlboro' haunted. Yesterday, he brought songs to teach
her, and among them the chant to which long ago they had once listened together in the old
Norman cathedral; to-morrow, he would show her a singular deposit on the beach, of rare silvery
shells underflushed with rose, kept there over a tide for her eyes; to-day, he treated her
to politics condensed into a single phrase whose essence told all his philosophy:--"The great
error in government," he said, "is also inversely the great want in marriage: in government,
individuality should be supreme; in marriage, lost. In government, this error is a triple-headed
monster: centralization, consolidation, union."

Mr. St. George heard him, and paused a moment before them, one evening, as Marlboro' thus harangued
Éloise.

"Consolidation? Centralization?" said he. "The very things we all oppose."

"Nullification is a good solvent."

"A ghost that is laid. There's a redder phantom than that on the horizon, man!"

"What are you talking about, politics or marriage?"

"God forbid that I should soil a lady's ears with the first!" said Mr. St. George, bowing to
Éloise; "and as to the last,--I'll none of it!"

And after Mr. Marlboro' had gone that night, as Éloise was about to ascend to her own rooms,
Mr. St. George came along again, and, lightly taking the candle, held up the tiny flame before
her face.

"What has that contrabandista been saying to you?" demanded Mr. St. George.

Éloise looked ignorantly up.

"Gilding hell? Do not believe him! Never believe anything any one says, when you know he is
in love with you! Slavery is a curse! a curse that we inherit for the sins of those drunken
Cavaliers, our forefathers! Let us make the best of it!"

"Ah, Mr. St. George," said she, gayly, "this from you, for whom the disciples claim Calhoun's
mantle? For what, then, do you contend?"

"For the right of being a free man myself! for the right of enduring the dictation of no man
in Maine or Louisiana! for the right to do as I have the mind!" exclaimed Mr. St. George, in
a ponderous and suppressed under-voice that rang through her head half-way up-stairs.

Long before, Mr. St. George had very courteously begged Éloise to take a vacation during the
stay of their friends, but she had so peremptorily and utterly refused to do so that it ended
by his spending the long morning with her in the cabinet, either over certain neglected arrears,
or while she wrote letters under his royal dictation, and Hazel sewed a laborious seam between
them, as always. Here, at length, after sufficient tantalization by its means, Marlboro' venturously
intruded himself every day. Too familiar for interruption, he took another seat, and watched
her swift hand's graceful progress. If her pen delayed, she found another awaiting her,--her
posture wearied, a footstool was rolled towards her feet,--her side cramped, behold, a cushion,--she
looked for fresh paper, it fell before her: all somewhat slavish service, and which Hazel could
have rendered as well. Used to slaves, would she have preferred a master? Whether Miss Changarnier
relished these abject kindnesses better than Mr. St. George's imperious exactions was precisely
the thing that puzzled the two gentlemen.

Meanwhile, during all this gay season, if Éloise had thought of once looking about her, which
she never did, she would have seen, that, in whatever group she was, there, too, was Mr. St.
George,--that, if they rode three abreast down the great park-avenues, though she laughed with
Evan Murray, it was to Mr. St. George's horse that her bridle was secured,--and that, when
she sang, it was St. George who jested and smiled and lightly talked the while,--not that her
music was not sweet, but that its spell was too strong for him to endure beneath his mask.
Yet Éloise drew no deductions; if at first she noticed that it was he who laid the shawl on
her shoulders, if she remembered, that, when he fastened her dropping bracelet, biting his
lip and looking down, he held the wrist an instant with a clasp that left its whitened pressure
there, she remembered, too, that he never spoke to her, were it avoidable, that he failed in
small politenesses of the footstool or the fan, and that, if once he had looked at her in an
instant's intentness of singular expression, and let a smile well up and flood his eyes and
lips and face, in a heart-beat it had faded, and he was standing with folded arms and looking
sternly away beyond her, while she caught herself still sitting there and bending forward and
smiling up at him like a flower beneath the sun;--to atone for her remissness, she was frowning
and cool and curt to Earl St. George for days.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about this time, that, one night, when Hazel passed the tea, Éloise's eye, wandering
a moment, suddenly woke from a little apathy and observed that there was no widow's cap on
Mrs. Arles's hair, that it had refined away through various shades of lace till at last even
the delicate cobweb on the back of the head was gone and the glossy locks lay bare, that the
sables had become simply black gauze over a steely shine of silk, that the little Andalusian
foot lay relieved on a white embroidered cushion, that its owner was glancing up and smiling
at a gentleman who bent above her, and that that gentleman was Mr. St. George. When this change
had taken place, and whether it had been abrupt or gradual, her careless eye could not tell;
and, forgetting her own part momentarily in order to take in the whole of the drama in which
they were all acting, Éloise spilled her tea and made some work for Hazel. As the girl rectified
her mishap, it flashed on Éloise that she had done nothing more about her suit; she noticed,
too, how pale Hazel was, and how subdued and still in all her movements; she remembered that
probably Vane had found it impossible to see her and to elude his ever-present master; and
she thereupon availed herself of his first disengaged moment to stand at Mr. St. George's side,
and ask him if he had ever thought again of a request she had once made him.

"I was thinking of it at this moment," he replied, looking at her with something like sunshine
suffusing the brown depth of his eyes; "but the truth is, I am not on such terms with Marlboro'
that I may demand a favor."

"Then I shall."

"On your peril!" he cried, with hasty rigor.

But Éloise escaped, trailing one end of her scarf behind, looking back at him, laughing, and
shaking her threatening fan as he stepped after her. And then Mr. St. George resumed his haughty
silence.

Éloise went down the hall after Hazel. She found her in the empty dining-room, having just
set down the salver; the last light, that, stealing in, illumined all the paintings of clusters
of fruit and bunches of flowers upon the white panelling, had yet a little ray to spare for
the girl where she crouched with her sobs, her apron flung above her head; and when Éloise
laid her hand gently on her shoulder, she sprang as if one had struck her.

"Oh, Miss 'Loise! Miss 'Loise! I'm in such trouble!" she gasped.

It did not take long for the little story to find the air. Vane and Hazel, secure of Éloise's
efforts, had married. It was one of the immutable Blue Bluffs laws that they had broken: there
were no marriages allowed off the place there. Vane was expiating his offence no one knew where,
and there were even rumors that he had already been sent away to the Cuban plantation of the
Marlboro's, whither all refractory slaves were wont to journey.

Éloise went slowly back to the drawing-room, then out upon the piazza, and with her went that
bending grace that accompanied her least motion, and always reminded you of a flower swaying
on its stem. Mr. Marlboro' leaned there, listening to Miss Murray's singing within. Éloise
went and took her place beside him, while his face brightened. He had been eating opium again,
and his eyes were full of dreams. From where they stood upon the piazza they could see the
creek winding, a strip of silvery redness, along the coast, and far in the distance where it
met the sea, a film upon the sky, rose the dim castellated height of Blue Bluffs, like an azure
mist.

"There is something there that I want," said Éloise, archly, looking at the Bluffs.

"There? you shall not wish twice."

Then Hazel approaching, as by signal, offered Mr. Marlboro' a cup, which he declined without
gesture or glance, while there gleamed in her eye a subtle look that told how easy it would
have been to brew poison for this man who had such an ungodly power over her fate.

"That is my little maid," said Éloise. "I have lent her to Mrs. Arles awhile, though. Is she
not pretty,--Hazel?"

"That is Hazel, then? A very witch-hazel!"

"Yes."

"And you want Vane?"

"Yes, Mr. Marlboro'."

"I did not know she was your maid. But the offence of Vane, if overlooked, would be a breach
of discipline entailing too hazardous effects. Authority should never relax. What creeps through
the iron fingers once can creep again. The gentle dews distilling through the pores of the
granite congeal in the first frost and rend the rock. I would have difficulty, Miss Éloise,
in pardoning such an offence to you, yourself. Ah, yes, that would be impossible, by Heaven!"

Éloise laughed in her charming way, and said,--

"But, Mr. Marlboro', would it not be an admirable lesson to your people, if Vane were sold?"

"A lesson to teach them all to go and do likewise, eh, Marlboro'?" said St. George, passing,
with Miss Humphreys on his arm.

"I have never sold, I never sell, a slave," replied Marlboro', in his placid tone; but St.
George was out of hearing. "Yet, Miss Éloise,--if--if you will accept him"----

"Mr. Marlboro'! Indeed? Truly indeed? How happy you make me!"

"And you can make me as happy,--happier, by the infinity of heaven over earth!"

"But ought I to accept such a gift?" asked Éloise, oblivious of his last speech. "But can I?--may
I?"--as St. George's warning stole into her memory.

"Most certainly you can! most certainly you shall! he is yours!" And before Éloise could pour
forth one of her multitudinous thanks, he had moved away.

Marlboro's, however, was not that noble nature that spurns to beg at the moment when it grants.
Directly, he had wheeled about, and with an eager air was again beside her.

"And, Éloise," he said, "if in response I might have one smile, one hope"----

Thoughtlessly enough, Éloise turned her smiling face upon him, and gave him her hand.

"And you give it to me at last, this hand, to crown my life!" he said,--for to his excited
brain the trifling deed seemed the weighty event, and when he looked up Éloise still was smiling.
Only for a second, though, for her processes of thought were not instantaneous, while to him
it was one of Mahomet's moments holding an eternity, and she smiled while she was thinking,
thinking simply of her little handmaiden's pleasure. She tried to release her hand. But Mr.
Marlboro' did not know that his grasp upon it was that of a vice, for under an artificial stimulus
every action is as intense as the fired fancy itself. And as she found it impossible to free
it without visible violence, other thoughts visited Éloise. Why should she not give it to him?
Who else cared for it? What object had her lonely life? Speak sweetly as they might, what one
of her old gallants forgot her loss of wealth? Here was a man to make happy, here was a heart
to rest upon, here was a slave of his own passions to set free. Why should she continue to
live with Mr. St. George for her haughty master, when here was this man at her feet? Why, but
that suddenly the conviction smote her that she loved the one and despised the other, that
she adored the master and despised the slave? And she snatched away her hand.

Just then Mr. St. George was coming down the piazza again, on his promenade, his head bent
low as he spoke to the clinging little lady on his arm. Passing Éloise, as he raised his face,
their eyes met. She was doing, he thought, the very thing that he had disadvised, and, as if
to warn her afresh, he looked long, a derisive smile curling his proud lip. That was enough.
"He knows it!" exclaimed Éloise to herself. "He believes it! He thinks I love him! He never
shall be sure of it!" And turning once more, her face hung down and away, she laid her hand
in Marlboro's, without a word or a glance. He bent low over it in the shadow, pressing it with
his fervent lips, murmuring, "Mine! mine at last! my own!" And St. George saw the whole.

Just then a little sail crept in sight from where they stood, winding down the creek at the
foot of the lawn.

"Oh, how delightful to be on the water to-night!" cried Laura Murray.

"You have but to command," said Mr. St. George, with a certain gayety that seemed struck out
like sparks against the flinty fact of the late occurrence,--and half the party trooped down
the turf to the shore. The boats were afloat and laden before one knew it. Mr. Marlboro' and
Éloise were just one instant too late. Laura Murray shook a triumphant handkerchief at them,
and St. George feathered his oar, pausing a moment as if he would return, and then gave a great
sweep and his boat fairly leaped over the water.

Mr. Marlboro' did not hesitate. There was the sail they had first seen, now on the point of
being lowered beneath the alder-bushes by the young hunters who had sought shore for the night.
Gold slipped from one hand to another, a word, a name, and a promise. Éloise was on board,
expecting Mrs. Arles and Mrs. Houghton to follow. Marlboro' sprang upon the end, and drew in
the rope behind him, waving the other ladies a farewell; the sails were stretched again, the
rudder shipped, and wing and wing they went skimming down the channel, past the little fleet
of wherries, ploughing the shallow current into foam and spray on their wild career.

"Marlboro' is mad!" said St. George, with a whitening cheek.

Marlboro', standing up, one arm about the mast, and catching the slant beam of the late-rising
moon on his face, that shone awfully rapt and intent, saluted them with an ironical cheer,
and dashed on. Éloise held the tiller for the moment, still pulsating with her late emotions,
not above a trifling play of vanity, welcoming the exhilaration of a race, where she might
half forget her trouble, and pleased with a vague anticipation of some intervention that might
recall the word which even in these five dragging moments had already begun to corrode and
eat into her heart like a rusting fetter. The oarsmen in the wherries bent their muscles to
the strife, the boats danced over the tiny crests, the ladies sang their breeziest sea-songs
to cheer them at the work. The sail-boat rounded a curve and was almost out of sight.

"Oars never caught sails yet," muttered St. George, and he put his boat to the shore. "There,
Murray, try your lazy mettle, and take my oar. As for me, I'm off,"--and he sprang upon the
bank, sending the boat spinning off into the current again from his foot. In ten minutes a
horseman went galloping by on the high-road skirting the shore, with a pace like that of the
Spectre of the Storm.

"Now, Mr. Marlboro'," said Éloise, "shall we not turn back, victorious?"

"Turn?" said Marlboro', shaking loose another fold of the linen. "I never turn! Look your last
on the tiny tribe,--we shall see them no more!"

Éloise sprang to her feet. He caught her hand and replaced her; his face was so white that
it shone, there was a wild glitter in his eye, and the smile that brooded over her had something
in it absolutely terrific.

"We have gone far enough," said Éloise, resolutely. "I wish to rejoin my friends."

"You are with me!" said Marlboro', proudly.

She was afraid to say another word, for to oppose him now in his exultant rage might only work
the mood to frenzy. The creek had widened almost to a river,--the sea was close at hand, with
its great tumbling surf. She looked at the horizon and the hill for help, but none came; destruction
was before them, and on they flew.

Marlboro' stood now, and steadied the tiller with his foot.

"This is motion!" said he. "We fly upon the wings of the wind! The viewless wind comes roaring
out of the black region of the East, it fills the high heaven, it roars on to the uttermost
undulation of the atmosphere, and we are a part of it! We are only a mote upon its breath,
a dust-atom driven before it, Éloise,--and yet one great happiness is greater than it, drowns
it in a vaster flood of viewless power, can whisper to it calm!"

How should Éloise contradict him? With such rude awakening, he might only snatch her in his
arms and plunge down to death. Perhaps he half divined the fear.

"Yes, Éloise," he said. "They are both here, life and death, at our beck! I can take you to
my heart, one instant the tides divide, then they close above us, and you are mine for ever
and ever and only,--sealed mine beneath all this crystal sphere of the waters! We hear the
gentle lapping of the ripples on the shore, we hear the tones of evening-bells swim out and
melt above us, we hear the oar shake off its shower of tinkling drops,--up the jewel-strewn
deeps of heaven the planets hang out their golden lamps to light our slumbers! Heart to heart
and lip to lip, we are at rest, we are at peace, nothing comes between us, our souls have the
eternities in which to mingle!"

He saw Éloise shudder, and turned from his dream, blazing full upon her. "Life, then, is best!"
he cried. "But life together and alone, life where we count out its throbs in some far purple
island of the main, prolonged who knows how far?--love shall make for us perpetual youth, there
shall no gloom enter our Eden, perfect solitude and perfect bliss! Alone, we two in our pride
and our joy can defy the powers of any other heaven, we shall become gods ourselves! Up helm
and away! Life is best!"

THE NEVA.

        I walk, as in a dream,
        Beside the sweeping stream,
    Wrapped in the summer midnight's amber haze:
        Serene the temples stand,
        And sleep, on either hand,
    The palace-fronts along the granite quays.

        Where golden domes, remote,
        Above the sea-mist float,
    The river-arms, dividing, hurry forth;
        And Peter's fortress-spire,
        A slender lance of fire,
    Still sparkles back the splendor of the North.

        The pillared angel soars
        Above the silent shores;
    Dark from his rock the horseman hangs in air;
        And down the watery line
        The exiled Sphinxes pine
    For Karnak's morning in the mellow glare.

        I hear, amid the hush,
        The restless current's rush,
    The Neva murmuring through his crystal zone:
        A voice portentous, deep,
        To charm a monarch's sleep
    With dreams of power resistless as his own.

        Strong from the stormy Lake,
        Pure from the springs that break
    In Valdaï vales the forest's mossy floor,
        Greener than beryl-stone
        From fir woods vast and lone,
    In one full stream the braided currents pour.

        "Build up your granite piles
        Around my trembling isles,"
    I hear the River's scornful Genius say:
        "Raise for eternal time
        Your palaces sublime,
    And flash your golden turrets in the day!

        "But in my waters cold
        A mystery I hold,--
    Of empires and of dynasties the fate:
        I bend my haughty will,
        Unchanged, unconquered still,
    And smile to note your triumph: mine can wait.

        "Your fetters I allow,
        As a strong man may bow
    His sportive neck to meet a child's command,
        And curb the conscious power
        That in one awful hour
    Could whelm your halls and temples where they stand.

        "When infant Rurik first
        His Norseland mother nursed,
    My willing flood the future chieftain bore:
        To Alexander's fame
        I lent my ancient name,
    What time my waves ran red with Pagan gore.

        "Then Peter came. I laughed
        To feel his little craft
    Borne on my bosom round the marshy isles:
        His daring dream to aid,
        My chafing floods I laid,
    And saw my shores transfixed with arrowy piles.

        "I wait the far-off day
        When other dreams shall sway
    The House of Empire builded by my side,--
        Dreams that already soar
        From yonder palace-door,
    And cast their wavering colors on my tide,--

        "Dreams where white temples rise
        Below the purple skies,
    By waters blue, which winter never frets,--
        Where trees of dusky green
        From terraced gardens lean,
    And shoot on high the reedy minarets.

        "Shadows of mountain-peaks
        Vex my unshadowed creeks;
    Dark woods o'erhang my silvery birchen bowers;
        And islands, bald and high,
        Break my clear round of sky,
    And ghostly odors blow from distant flowers.

        "Then, ere the cold winds chase
        These visions from my face,
    I see the starry phantom of a crown,
        Beside whose blazing gold
        This cheating pomp is cold,
    A moment hover, as the veil drops down.

        "Build on! That day shall see
        My streams forever free.
    Swift as the wind, and silent as the snow,
        The frost shall split each wall:
        Your domes shall crack and fall:
    My bolts of ice shall strike your barriers low!"

        On palace, temple, spire,
        The morn's descending fire
    In thousand sparkles o'er the city fell:
        Life's rising murmur drowned
        The Neva where he wound
    Between his isles: he keeps his secret well.

ROBSON.

In the whole of London there is not a dirtier, narrower, and more disreputable thoroughfare
than Wych Street. It runs from that lowest part of Drury Lane where Nell Gwyn once had her
lodgings, and stood at her door in very primitive costume to see the milkmaids go a-Maying,
and parallel to Holywell Street and the Strand, into the church-yard of St. Clements Danes.
No good, it was long supposed, could ever come out of Wych Street. The place had borne an evil
name for centuries. Up a horrible little court branching northward from it good old George
Cruikshank once showed me the house where Jack Sheppard, the robber and prison-breaker, served
his apprenticeship to Mr. Wood, the carpenter; and on a beam in the loft of this house Jack
is said to have carved his name. When the pavement of the Strand is under repair, Wych Street
becomes, perforce, the principal channel of communication between the east and the west end;
and Theodore Hook used to say that he never passed through Wych Street in a hackney-coach without
being blocked up by a hearse and a coal-wagon in the van, and a mud-cart and the Lord Mayor's
carriage in the rear. Wych Street is among the highways we English are ashamed to show to foreigners.
We have threatened to pull it down bodily, any time these two hundred years, and a portion
of the southern side, on which the old Lyons Inn abutted, has indeed been razed, preparatory
to the erection of a grand metropolitan hotel on the American system; but the funds appear
not to be forthcoming; the scheme languishes; and, on the other side of the street, another
legal hostelry, New Inn, still flourishes in weedy dampness, immovable in the strength of vested
interests. Many more years must, I am afraid, elapse before we get rid of Wych Street. It is
full of quaint old Tudor houses, with tall gables, carved porches, and lattice-casements; but
the picturesque appearance of these tenements compensates but ill for their being mainly dens
of vice and depravity, inhabited by the vilest offscourings of the enormous city. Next to Napoli
senza sole, Wych Street, Drury Lane, is, morally and physically, about the shadiest street I know.

In Wych Street stands, nevertheless, an oasis in the midst of a desert, a pretty and commodious
little theatre, called the Olympic. The entertainments here provided have earned, for brilliance
and elegance, so well-deserved a repute, that the Olympic Theatre has become one of the most
favorite resorts of the British aristocracy. The Brahminical classes appear oblivious of the
yellow streak of caste, when they come hither. On four or five nights in every week during
the season, Drury Lane is rendered well-nigh impassable by splendid equipages which have conveyed
dukes and marquises and members of Parliament to the Olympic. Frequently, but prior to the
lamented death of Prince Albert, you might observe, if you passed through Wych Street in the
forenoon, a little platform, covered with faded red cloth, and shaded by a dingy, striped awning,
extending from one of the entrance-doors of the Olympic to the edge of the sidewalk. The initiated
became at once aware that Her Most Gracious Majesty intended to visit the Olympic Theatre that
very evening. The Queen of England goes to theatres no more; but the Prince of Wales and his
pretty young wife, the stout, good-tempered Duke of Cambridge, and his sister, the bonny Princess
Mary, are still constant visitors to Wych Street. So gorgeous is often the assemblage in this
murkiest of streets, that you are reminded of the days when the French noblesse, in all the
pride of hoops and hair-powder, deigned to flock to the lowly wine-shop of Ramponneau.

My business, however, is less with the Olympic Theatre, as it at present exists, than with
its immediate predecessor. About fifteen years ago, there stood in Wych Street a queer, low-browed
little building with a rough wooden portico before it,--not unlike such a portico as I have
recently seen in front of a dilapidated inn at Culpepper, Virginia,--and with little blinking
windows, very much resembling the port-holes of a man-of-war. According to tradition, the place
had, indeed, a kind of naval origin. Old King George III., who, when he was not mad, or meddling
with politics, was really a good-natured kind of man, once made Philip Astley, the riding-master,
and proprietor of the circus in South Lambeth, a present of a dismantled seventy-four gun-ship
captured from the French. With these timbers, some lath and plaster, a few bricks, and a little
money, Astley ran up a theatre dedicated to the performance of interludes and burlettas,--that
is, of pieces in which the dialogue was not spoken, but sung, in order to avoid interference
with the patent-rights of Drury Lane and Covent Garden. In our days, this edifice was known
as the Olympic. When I knew this theatre first, it had fallen into a state of seemingly hopeless
decadence. Nobody succeeded there. To lease the Olympic Theatre was to court bankruptcy and
invite collapse. The charming Vestris had been its tenant for a while. There Liston and Wrench
had delighted the town with their most excellent fooling. There many of Planche's most sparkling
burlesques had been produced. There a perfect boudoir of a green-room had been fitted up by
Bartolozzi's beautiful and witty daughter; and there Hook and Jerrold, Haynes Bayley and A'
Beckett had uttered their wittiest sayings. But the destiny of the Olympic was indomitable.
There was nae luck about the house; and Eliza Vestris went bankrupt at last. Management after
management tried its fortunes in the doomed little house, but without success. Desperate adventurers
seized upon it as a last resource, or chose it as a place wherein to consummate their ruin.
The Olympic was contiguous to the Insolvent Debtors' Court, in Portugal Street, and from the
paint-pots of the Olympic scene-room to the whitewash of the commercial tribunal there was
but one step.

It must have been in 1848 that the famous comedian, William Farren, having realized a handsome
fortune as an actor, essayed to lose a considerable portion of his wealth by becoming a manager.
He succeeded in the last-named enterprise quite as completely as he had done in the other:
I mean, that he lost a large sum of money in the Olympic Theatre. He played all kinds of pieces:
among others, he gave the public two very humorous burlesques, founded on Shakspeare's plays
of "Macbeth" and "The Merchant of Venice." The authors were two clever young Oxford men: Frank
Talfourd, the son of the poet-Judge,--father and son are, alas! both dead,--and William Hale,
the son of the well-known Archdeacon and Master of the Charter-House. Shakspearian burlesques
were no novelty to the town. We had had enough and to spare of them. W. J. Hammond, the original
Sam Weller in the dramatized version of "Pickwick," had made people laugh in "Macbeth Travestie"
and "Othello according to Act of Parliament." The Olympic burlesques were slightly funnier,
and not nearly so coarse as their forerunners; but they were still of no striking salience.
Poorly mounted, feebly played,--save in one particular,--they drew but thin houses. Gradually,
however, you began to hear at clubs and in critical coteries--at the Albion and the Garrick
and the Café de l'Europe, at Evans's and at Kilpack's, at the Réunion in Maiden Lane and at
Rules's oyster-room, where poor Albert Smith used to reign supreme--rumors about a new actor.
The new man was playing Macbeth and Shylock in Talfourd and Hale's parodies. He was a little
stunted fellow, not very well-favored, not very young. Nobody--among the bodies who were anybody--had
ever heard of him before. Whence he came, or what he was, none knew; but everybody came at
last to care. For this little stunted creature, with his hoarse voice and nervous gestures
and grotesque delivery, his snarls, his leers, his hunchings of the shoulders, his contortions
of the limbs, his gleaming of the eyes, and his grindings of the teeth, was a genius. He became
town-talk. He speedily grew famous. He has been an English, I might almost say a European,
I might almost say a worldwide celebrity ever since; and his name was FREDERICK ROBSON.

Eventually it was known, when the town grew inquisitive, and the critics were compelled to
ferret out his antecedents, that the new actor had already attained middle age,--that he had
been vegetating for years in that obscurest and most miserable of all dramatic positions, the
low comedian of a country-theatre,--that he had come timidly to London and accepted at a low
salary the post of buffoon at a half-theatre half-saloon in the City Road, called indifferently
the "Grecian" and the "Eagle," where he had danced and tumbled, and sung comic songs, and delivered
the dismal waggeries set down for him, without any marked success, and almost without notice.
He was a quiet, unassuming little man, this Robson, seemingly without vanity and without ambition.
He had a wife and family to maintain, and drew his twenty-five or thirty shillings weekly with
perfect patience and resignation.

A weary period, however, elapsed between his appearance at the Olympic and his realization
of financial success. The critics and the connoisseurs talked about him a long time before
the public could be persuaded to go and see him, or the manager to raise his salary. That doomed
house with the wooden portico was in the way. At last the wretched remnant of the French seventy-four
caught fire and was burned to the ground. Its ill-luck was consistent to the last. A poor actor,
named Bender, had engaged the Olympic for a benefit. He was to pay twenty pounds for the use
of the house. He had just sold nineteen pounds' worth of tickets, and trusted to the casual
receipts at the door for his profits. At a few minutes before six o'clock, having to play in
the first piece, he proceeded to the theatre, and entered his dressing-room. By half-past six
the whole house was in a blaze. Bender, half undressed, had only time to save himself; and
his coat, with the nineteen pounds in the pocket, fell a prey to the flames. After this, will
you tell me that there is not such a thing as ill-luck?

The Olympic arose "like a phoenix from its ashes." To use language less poetical, a wealthy
tradesman--a cheesemonger, I think--found the capital to build up a new theatre. The second
edifice was elegant, and almost splendid; but in the commencement it seemed fated to undergo
as evil fortune as its precursor. I cannot exactly remember whether it was in the old or the
new Olympic--but I think it was in the new one--that the notorious Walter Watts ran a brief
and sumptuous career as manager. He produced many pieces, some of them his own, in a most luxurious
manner. He was a man about town, a viveur, a dandy; and it turned out one morning that Walter
Watts had been, all along, a clerk in the Globe Insurance Office, at a salary of a hundred
and fifty pounds a year; and that he had swindled his employers out of enormous sums of money.
He was tried, nominally for stealing "a piece of paper, value one penny," being a check which
he had abstracted; but it was understood that his defalcations were little short of ninety
thousand pounds sterling. Watts was convicted, and sentenced to ten years' transportation.
The poor wretch was not of the heroically villanous mould in which the dashing criminals who
came after him, Robson and Redpath, were cast. He was troubled with a conscience. He had drunk
himself into delirium tremens; and starting from his pallet one night in a remorseful frenzy,
he hanged himself in the jail.

It was during the management of Alfred Wigan at the New Olympic that Frederick Robson began
to be heard of again. An old, and not a very clever farce, by one of the Brothers Mayhew, entitled
"The Wandering Minstrel," had been revived. In this farce, Robson was engaged to play the part
of Jem Baggs, an itinerant vocalist and flageolet-player, who, in tattered attire, roams about
from town to town, making the air hideous with his performances. The part was a paltry one,
and Robson, who had been engaged mainly at the instance of the manager's wife, a very shrewd
and appreciative lady, who persisted in declaring that the ex-low-comedian of the Grecian had
"something in him," eked it out by singing an absurd ditty called "Vilikins and his Dinah."
The words and the air of "Vilikins" were, if not literally as old as the hills, considerably
older than the age of Queen Elizabeth. The story told in the ballad, of a father's cruelty,
a daughter's anguish, a sweetheart's despair, and the ultimate suicide of both the lovers,
is, albeit couched in uncouth and grotesque language, as pathetic as the tragedy of "Romeo
and Juliet." Robson gave every stanza a nonsensical refrain of "Right tooral lol looral, right
tooral lol lay." At times, when his audience was convulsed with merriment, he would come to
a halt, and gravely observe, "This is not a comic song"; but London, was soon unanimous that
such exquisite comicality had not been heard for many a long year. "Vilikins and his Dinah"
created a furore. My countrymen are always going mad about something; and Englishmen and Englishwomen
all agreed to go crazy about "Vilikins." "Right tooral lol looral" was on every lip. Robson's
portrait as Jem Baggs was in every shop-window. A newspaper began an editorial with the first
line in "Vilikins,"--

    "It's of a liquor-merchant who in London did dwell."

A Judge of Assize absolutely fined the High Sheriff of a county one hundred pounds for the
mingled contempt shown in neglecting to provide him with an escort of javelin-men and introducing
the irrepressible "Right tooral lol looral" into a speech delivered at the opening of circuit.
Nor was the song all that was wonderful in Jem Baggs. His "make-up" was superb. The comic genius
of Robson asserted itself in an inimitable lagging gait, an unequalled snivel, a coat and pantaloons
every patch on and every rent in which were artistic, and a hat inconceivably battered, crunched,
and bulged out of normal, and into preternatural shape.

New triumphs awaited him. In the burlesque of "The Yellow Dwarf," he showed a mastery of the
grotesque which approached the terrible. Years before, in Macbeth, he had personated a red-headed,
fire-eating, whiskey-drinking Scotchman,--and in Shylock, a servile, fawning, obsequious, yet,
when emergency arose, a passionate and vindictive Jew. In the Yellow Dwarf he was the jaundiced
embodiment of a spirit of Oriental evil: crafty, malevolent, greedy, insatiate,--full of mockery,
mimicry, lubricity, and spite,--an Afrit, a Djinn, a Ghoul, a spawn of Sheitan. How that monstrous
orange-tawny head grinned and wagged! How those flaps of ears were projected forwards, like
unto those of a dog! How balefully those atrabilious eyes glistened! You laughed, and yet you
shuddered. He spoke in mere doggerel and slang. He sang trumpery songs to negro melodies. He
danced the Lancashire clog-hornpipe; he rattled out puns and conundrums; yet did he contrive
to infuse into all this mummery and buffoonery, into this salmagundi of the incongruous and
the outré, an unmistakably tragic element,--an element of depth and strength and passion, and
almost of sublimity. The mountebank became inspired. The Jack Pudding suddenly drew the cothurnus
over his clogs. You were awe-stricken by the intensity, the vehemence, he threw into the mean
balderdash of the burlesque-monger. These qualities were even more apparent in his subsequent
personation of Medea, in Robert Brough's parody of the Franco-Italian tragedy. The love, the
hate, the scorn, of the abandoned wife of Jason, the diabolic loathing in which she holds Creüsa,
the tigerish affection with which she regards the children whom she is afterwards to slay,--all
these were portrayed by Robson, through the medium, be it always remembered, of doggerel and
slang, with astonishing force and vigor. The original Medea, the great Ristori herself, came
to see Robson, and was delighted with and amazed at him. She scarcely understood two words
of English, but the actor's genius struck her home through the bull's-hide target of an unknown
tongue. "Uomo straordinario!" she went away saying.

I have anticipated the order of his successes, but at this distance of time and places I can
keep no chronological count of them. Robson has always alternated the serio-comic burlesque
with pure farce, and after Jem Baggs his brightest hits have been in the deaf ostler in "Boots
at the Swan" and the discharged criminal in "Retained for the Defence." In the burlesque of
"Masaniello," he had an opportunity--which some thought would prove a magnificent one to him--of
showing the grotesque side of insanity; but, for some reason or other, the part seemed distasteful
to him. It may have been repugnant to his eminently sensitive spirit to exhibit the ludicrous
aspect of the most dreadful of human infirmities. A peste, fame, bello, et dementia libera
nos, Domine! Perhaps the piece itself was weak. At all events, "Masaniello" had but a brief
run. A drunken man, a jealous man, a deaf man, a fool, a vagabond, a demon, a tyrant, Robson
could marvellously depict: in the crazy Neapolitan fisherman he either failed or was unwilling
to excel. I had been for a long period extremely solicitous to see Robson undertake the part
of Sir Giles Overreach in "A New Way to pay Old Debts." You know that Sir Giles, after the
discovery of the obliterated deed, goes stark staring mad. I should have wished to see him
assume Edmund Kean's own character in the real play itself; but Robson was nervous of venturing
on a purely "legitimate" rôle. I was half persuaded to write a burlesque on "A New Way to pay
Old Debts," and Robson had promised to do his very best with Sir Giles; but a feeling, half
of laziness, and half of reverence for the fine old drama, came over me, and I never got farther
than the first scene.

By this time some of the foremost dramatists in London thought they could discern in Robson
latent characteristics of a nature far more elevated than those which his previous performances
had brought into play. It was decided by those who had a right to render an authoritative verdict,
that he would shine best in that which we call the "domestic drama." Here it was thought his
broad fun, rustic waggery, and curious mastery of provincial dialect might admirably contrast
with the melodramatic intensity, and the homely, but touching pathos of which in so eminent
a degree he was the master. Hence the dramas, written expressly and deliberately to his measure
and capacity, of "Daddy Hardacre," "The Porter's Knot," and "The Chimney-Corner." When I say
written, I mean, of course, translated. Our foremost dramatists have not yet ceased to borrow
from the French; but, like the gypsies, they so skilfully mutilate the children they have stolen,
that the theft becomes almost impossible to detect. Not one person in five hundred, for instance,
would discover at first sight that a play so apparently English in conception and structure
as the "Ticket-of-Leave Man" is, in reality, a translation from the French.

The success achieved by Robson in the dramas I have named was extended, and was genuine. In
Daddy Hardacre, a skilful adaptation of the usurer in Balzac's "Eugénie Grandet," he was tremendous.
It made me more than ever wishful to see him in the griping, ruthless Overreach, foiled at
last in his wicked ambition and driven to frenzy by the destruction of the document by which
he thought to satisfy his lust of gain. Molière's Avare I thought he would have acted wonderfully;
Ben Jonson's Volpone, in "The Fox," he would surely have understood, and powerfully rendered.
In the devoted father of "The Porter's Knot" he was likewise most excellent: quiet, unaffected,
unobtrusive, never forcing sentiment upon you, never obtaining tears by false pretences, but
throughout solid, sterling, natural, admirable. I came at last, however, to the conviction,
that, marked as was the distinction gained by this good actor in parts such as these, and as
the lighthouse-keeper--the character originally sustained in private by Charles Dickens--in
Wilkie Collins's play, domestic drama was not his forte; or, rather, that it was not his fortissimo.
In fantastic burlesque, in the comic-terrible, he was unrivalled and inimitable. In the domestic
drama he could hardly be surpassed, but he might be approached. Webster, Emery, Addison, could
play Daddy Hardacre, or the father in "The Porter's Knot"; but none but himself could at once
awe and convulse in Medea and the Yellow Dwarf. These domestic dramas interested, however,
as much by their subject as by the excellence of his acting. Moreover, the public are apt sometimes
to grow weary of burlesques,--their eternal grimacing and word-torturing and negro-singing
and dancing. Themes for parody become exhausted, and, without long surcease, would not bear
repetition. You may grow puns, like tobacco, until the soil is utterly worn out. The burlesque-writers,
too, exhibited signs of weariness and feebleness. Planché retired into the Heralds' College.
The cleverest of the Broughs died. His surviving brother was stupid. Talfourd went to the law
before he found an early grave. Hale went to India. The younger generation were scarcely fit
to write pantomimes, and it was not always Christmas. Besides, Robson had become a manager,
and thought, perhaps, that weightier parts became him. In copartnership with Mr. Emden, he
had succeeded Alfred Wigan as lessee of the Olympic, and there I hope he has realized a fortune.
But whenever his brief vacations occurred, and actor-like he proceeded to turn them into gold
by devoting to performances in country-theatres those days and nights which should properly
have been given to rest and peace, he proved faithful to his old loves, and Jem Baggs and Boots
at the Swan, Medea and the Yellow Dwarf, continued to be his favorite parts.

The popularity attained in England by this most remarkable of modern actors has never, since
the public were first aware of his qualities, decreased. Robson is always sure to draw. The
nights of his playing, or of his non-playing, at the Olympic, are as sure a gauge of the receipts
as the rising and falling of the mercury in the thermometer are of the variations of the temperature.
A month's absence of Robson from London always brought about an alarming depletion in the Olympic
treasury. Unhappily, these absences have of late years become more frequent, and more and more
prolonged. The health of the great tragi-comedian has gradually failed him. I have been for
a long period without news from him; but I much fear that the heyday of his health and strength
is past. The errors which made Edmund Kean, in the prime of life, a shattered wreck, cannot
be brought home to Frederick Robson. Rumors, the wildest and the wickedest, have been circulated
about him, as about every other public man; but, to the best of my knowledge and belief, they
are wholly destitute of foundation. Don Basilio, in Beaumarchais's play, might have added some
very pregnant advice to his memorable counsel, "Calomniez, calomniez, il en résultera toujours
quelque chose." He should have taught the world--if the world wants teaching--how to calumniate.
The following recipe will be found, I think, infallible. If your enemy be a man of studious
and retired habits, hint that he has gone mad; if you see him alone at a theatre or at church,
report that he is separated from his wife; and in any case, declare that he drinks. He can't
disprove it. If he drinks water out-of-doors, he may drink like a fish at home. If he walks
straight on the street, he may reel in the parlor.

Thus, scores of times, the gossip-mongers of English provincial papers--the legion of "our
own correspondents," who are a nuisance and a curse to reputable society, wherever that society
is to be found--have attributed the vacillating health and the intermittent retirements from
the stage of the great actor to an over-fondness for brandy-and-water. The sorrowful secret
of all this is, I apprehend, that poor Robson has for years been overworking himself,--and
that latterly prosperity has laid as heavy a tax upon his time and energy as necessity imposed
upon them when he was young. Dame Fortune, whether she smile, or whether she frown, never ceases
to be a despot. Over Dives and over Lazarus she equally tyrannizes. In wealth and in poverty
does she exact the pound of flesh or the pound of soul. There are seasons in a man's life when
Fortune with a radiant savageness cries out to him, "Confound you! you shall make fifty thousand
a year"; and she drives him onward to the goal quite as remorselessly as ever slave-owner drove
negro into a rice-ground. The whip that is made of golden wire hurts quite as much, I opine,
as the cowhide. And when, at last, the fortunate man cries out, "I am rich, I have enough,
Sat me lusistis, ludite nunc alios, I will work and fret myself no more, I will retire on my
dividends, and sit me down under my own fig-tree,"--Fortune dismisses him with a sneer: "Retire,
if you like!" cries the implacable, "but take hypochondria and ennui, take gout and the palsy,
with you."

I should be infinitely rejoiced to hear, when I go back, that Robson is once more a hale and
valid man. It is the tritest of platitudes to say that he could ill be spared by the English
stage. We never can spare a good actor. As well can we spare a good book or a good picture.
But there would be much cause for gratulation, if Robson were spared, ere his powers definitively
decline, to visit the United States. The American people ought to see Robson. They have had
our tragedians, good, bad, and indifferent. They have filled the pockets of William Macready
and of Charles Kean with dollars. They have heard our men-singers and our women-singers,--the
birds that can sing, and the birds that can't sing, but will sing. The most notable of our
drolls, Buckstone and Keeley, have been here, and have received a cordial welcome. But Robson
has hitherto been lacking on this side the Atlantic. That he would be thoroughly appreciated
by the theatrical public of America I cannot for one instant doubt. It is given to England
to produce eccentrics, but for other nations to understand them better than the English do.
The Germans are better critics of the satire of Hogarth, the French of the humor of Sterne,
and the Americans of the philosophy of Shakspeare, than we to whose country those illustrious
belong. In Boston, in New York, in Philadelphia, crowded and enthusiastic audiences would,
I venture to foretell, hang on the utterances of Robson, and expound to their own entire satisfaction
his most eloquent by-play, his subtlest gestures. It would be idle, in the endeavor to give
him something like a palpable aspect to people who have never seen him, to compare him with
other great actors yet extant, or who have gone before. In his bursts of passion, in his vehement
soliloquies, in the soul-harrowing force of his simulated invective, he is said to resemble
Edmund Kean; but how are you to judge of an actor who in his comic moments certainly approaches
the image we have formed to ourselves of Munden and Dowton, of Bannister and Suett? To say
that he is a Genius, and the Prince of Eccentrics, is perhaps the only way to cut the Gordian
knot of criticism in his instance.

Let me add, in conclusion, that Robson, off the stage, is one of the mildest, modestest, most
unassuming of men. Painfully nervous he always was. I remember, a dozen years since, and when
I was personally unacquainted with him, writing in some London newspaper a eulogistic criticism
on one of his performances. I learned from friends that he had read the article, and had expressed
himself as deeply grateful to me for it. I just knew him by sight; but for months afterwards,
if I met him in the street, he used to blush crimson, and made as sudden a retreat round the
nearest corner as was possible. He said afterwards that he hadn't the courage to thank me.
I brought him to bay at last, and came to know him very well; and then I discovered how the
nervousness, the bashfulness, the mauvaise honte, which made him so shy and retiring in private,
stood him in wonderful stead on the stage. The nervous man became the fretful and capricious
tyrant of mock tragedy; the bashful man warmed at the foot-lights with passion and power. The
manner which in society was a drawback and a defect became in the pursuit of his art a charm
and an excellence. What new parts may be created for Robson, and how he will acquit himself
in them, I cannot presume to prophesy; but it is certain that he has already done enough to
win for himself in the temple of dramatic fame a niche all the more to be envied, as its form
and pattern must be, like its occupant, unprecedented and original.

THE PARALLEL ROADS OF GLEN ROY, IN SCOTLAND.

There are phenomena in Nature which give the clue to so many of its mysteries that their correct
interpretation leads at once to the broadest generalizations and to the rapid advance of science
in new directions. The explanation of one very local and limited problem may clear up many
collateral ones, since its solution includes the answer to a whole set of kindred inquiries.
The "parallel roads" of Glen Roy offer such a problem. For half a century they have been the
subject of patient investigation and the boldest speculation. To them natural philosophers
have returned again and again to test their theories, and until they are fully understood no
steady or permanent advance can be made in the various views which they have suggested to different
observers. The theory of the formation of lakes by barriers, presented by McCulloch and Sir
T. Lauder-Dick, that of continental upheavals and subsidences, advocated by Sir Charles Lyell
and Charles Darwin, that of inundations by great floods, maintained by Professor H. D. Rogers
and Sir George Mackenzie, that of glacial action, brought forward by myself, have been duly
discussed with reference to this difficult case; all have found their advocates, all have met
with warm opposition, and the matter still remains a mooted point; but the one of all these
theories which shall stand the test of time and repeated examination and be eventually accepted
will explain many a problem besides the one it was meant to solve, and lead to farther progress
in other directions.

I propose here to reconsider the facts of the case, and to present anew my own explanation
of them, now more than twenty years old, but which I have never had an opportunity of publishing
in detail under a popular form, though it appeared in the scientific journals of the day.

Before considering, however, the phenomena of Glen Roy, or the special glacial areas scattered
over Scotland and the other British Isles, let us see what general evidence we have that glaciers
ever existed at all in that realm. The reader will pardon me, if, at the risk of repetition,
I sum up here the indications which, from our knowledge of glaciers as they at present exist,
must be admitted, wherever they are found, as proof of their former existence. Such a summary
may serve also as a guide to those who would look for glacial traces where they have not hitherto
been sought.

In the first place, we have to consider the singular abrasion of the surfaces over which the
glacier has moved, quite unlike that produced by the action of water. We have seen that such
surfaces, wherever the glacier-marks have not been erased by some subsequent action, have several
unfailing characteristics: they are highly polished, and they are also marked with scratches
or fine striæ, with grooves and deeper furrows. Where best preserved, the smooth surfaces are
shining; they have a lustre like stone or marble artificially polished by the combined friction
and pressure of some harder material than itself until all its inequalities have been completely
levelled and its surface has become glossy. Any marble mantel-piece may serve as an example
of this kind of glacier-worn surface.

The levelling and abrading action of water on rock has an entirely different character. Tides
or currents driven powerfully and constantly against a rocky shore, and bringing with them
hard materials, may produce blunt, smooth surfaces, such as the repeated blows of a hammer
on stone would cause; but they never bring it to a high polish, because, the grinding materials
not being held steadily down, in firm, permanent contact with the rocky surfaces against which
they move, as is the case with the glacier, but, on the contrary, dashed to and fro, they strike
and rebound, making a succession of blows, but never a continuous, uninterrupted pressure and
friction. The same is true of all the marks made on rocky shores against which loose materials
are driven by water-currents. They are separate, disconnected, fragmentary; whereas the lines
drawn by the hard materials set in the glacier, whether light and fine or strong and deep,
are continuous, often unbroken for long distances, and rectilinear. Indeed, we have seen[A]
that we have beneath every glacier a complete apparatus adapted to all the results described
above. In the softer fragments ground to the finest powder under the incumbent mass we have
a polishing paste; in the hard materials set in that paste, whether pebbles, or angular rocky
fragments of different sizes, or grains of sand, we have the various graving instruments by
which the finer or coarser lines are drawn. Not only are these lines frequently uninterrupted
for a distance of many yards, but they are also parallel, except when some change takes place
in the thickness of the ice, which may slightly modify the trend of the mass, or where lines
in a variety of directions are produced by the intermittent action of separate glaciers running
successively at different angles over the same surfaces. The deeper grooves sometimes present
a succession of short staccato touches, just as when one presses the finger vertically along
some surface where the resistance is sufficient to interrupt the action without actually stopping
it,--a kind of grating motion, showing how firmly the instrument which produced it must have
been held in the moving mass. No currents or sudden freshets carrying hard materials with them,
even moving along straight paths down hill-sides or mountain-slopes, have ever been known to
draw any such lines. They could be made only by some instrument held fast as in a vice by the
moving power. Something of the kind is occasionally produced by the drag of a wheel grating
over rocks covered with loose materials.

It has been said that grounded ice or icebergs floating along a rocky shore might produce similar
marks; but they will chiefly be at the level of high-water mark, and, if grounded, they will
trend in various directions, owing to the rocking or rotating movement of the iceberg. It has
also been urged, that, without admitting any general glacier-period, icebergs and floating
ice from more northern latitudes might account for the extensive transportation of the loose
materials scattered in a continuous sheet over a large portion of the globe. There can be no
doubt that an immense amount of débris of all sorts is carried to great distances by floating
ice; where their presence is due to this cause, however, they are everywhere stranded along
the shore or dropped to the sea-bottom. Large boulders are frequently left by the ice along
the New-England coast, and we shall trace them hereafter among the sand-dunes of Cape Cod.
But before it can be admitted that the drift-phenomena, and the polished and engraved surfaces
with which they are everywhere intimately associated, are owing to floating ice or icebergs,
it must be shown that all these appearances have been produced by some agency moving from the
sea-board towards the land, and extending up to the very summits of the mountains, or else
that all the countries exhibiting glacial phenomena have been sunk below the ocean to the greatest
height at which glacier-marks are found, and have since gradually emerged to their present
level. Now, though geologists are lavish of immersions when something is to be accounted for
which they cannot otherwise explain, and a fresh baptism of old Mother Earth is made to wash
away many obstacles to scientific theories, yet the common sense of the world will hardly admit
the latter assumption without positive proof, and all the evidence of the kind we have, at
the period under consideration, indicates only a comparatively slight change of relative level
between sea and land within a narrow belt along the shores; and even this is shown to be posterior,
not anterior, to the glacial phenomena. As to the supposition that the motion proceeded from
the sea towards the land, all the facts are against it, since the whole trend of these phenomena
is from inland centres toward the shore, instead of being from the coast upward.

Certainly, no one familiar with the facts could suppose that floating ice or icebergs had abraded,
polished, and furrowed the bottom of narrow valleys as we find them worn, polished, and grooved
by glaciers. And it must be remembered that this is a theory founded not upon hypothesis, but
upon the closest comparison. I have not become acquainted with these marks in regions where
glaciers no longer exist, and made a theory to explain their presence. I have, on the contrary,
studied them where they are in process of formation. I have seen the glacier engrave its lines,
plough its grooves and furrows in the solid rock, and polish the surfaces over which it moved,
and was familiar with all this when I found afterwards appearances corresponding exactly to
those which I had investigated in the home of the present glaciers. I could therefore say,
and I think with some reason, that "this also is the work of the glacier acting in ancient
times as it now acts in Switzerland."

There is another character of glacial action distinguishing it from any abrasions caused by
water, even if freighted with a large amount of loose materials. On any surface over which
water flows we shall find that the softer materials have yielded first and most completely.
Hard dikes will be left standing out, while softer rocks around them are worn away,--furrows
will be eaten into more deeply,--fissures will be widened,--clay-slates will be wasted,--while
hard sandstone or limestone and granite will show greater resistance. Not so with surfaces
over which the levelling plough of the glacier has passed. Wherever softer and harder rocks
alternate, they are brought to one outline; where dikes intersect softer rock, they are cut
to one level with it; where rents or fissures traverse the rock, they do not seem to have been
widened or scooped out more deeply, but their edges are simply abraded on one line with the
adjoining surfaces. Whatever be the inequality in the hardness of the materials of which the
rock consists, even in the case of pudding-stone, the surface is abraded so evenly as to leave
the impression that a rigid rasp has moved over all the undulations of the land, advancing
in one and the same direction and levelling all before it.

Among the inequalities of the glacier-worn surfaces which deserve especial notice, are the
so-called "roches moutonnées." They are knolls of a peculiar appearance, frequent in the Alps,
and first noticed by the illustrious De Saussure, who designated them by that name, because,
where they are numerous and seen from a distance, they resemble the rounded backs of a flock
of sheep resting on the ground. These knolls are the result of the prolonged abrasion of masses
of rocks separated by deep indentations wide enough to be filled up by large glaciers, overtopping
the summits of the intervening prominences, and passing over them like a river, or like tide-currents
flowing over a submerged ledge of rock. It is evident that water rushing over such sunken hills
or ledges, adapting itself readily to all the inequalities over which it flows, and forming
eddies against the obstacles in its course, will scoop out tortuous furrows upon the bottom,
and hollow out rounded cavities against the walls, acting especially along preëxisting fissures
and upon the softer parts of the rock,--while the glacier, moving as a solid mass, and carrying
on its under side its gigantic file set in a fine paste, will in course of time abrade uniformly
the angles against which it strikes, equalize the depressions between the prominent masses,
and round them off until they present those smooth bulging knolls known as the "roches moutonnées"
in the Alps, and so characteristic everywhere of glacier-action. A comparison of any tide-worn
hummock with such a glacier-worn mound will convince the observer that its smooth and evenly
rounded surface was never produced by water.

Besides their peculiar form, the roches moutonnées present all the characteristic features
of glacier-action in their polished surfaces accompanied with the straight lines, grooves,
and furrows above described. But there are two circumstances connected with these knolls deserving
special notice. They frequently present the glacial marks only on one side, while the opposite
side has all the irregularities and roughness of a hill-slope not acted upon by ice. It is
evident that the polished side was the one turned towards the advancing glacier, the side against
which the ice pressed in its onward movement,--while it passed over the other side, the lee
side as we may call it, without coming in immediate contact with it, bridging the depression,
and touching bottom again a little farther on. As an additional evidence of this fact, we frequently
find on the lee side of such knolls accumulations of the loose materials which the glacier
carries with it. It is only, however, when the knolls are quite high, and abrupt enough to
allow any rigid substance to bridge over the space in its descent from the summit to the surface
below, that we find these conditions; when the knolls are low and slope gently downward in
every direction, they present the characteristic glacier-surfaces equally on all sides. This
circumstance should be borne in mind by all who investigate the traces of glacier-action; for
this inequality in the surfaces presented by the opposite sides of any obstacle in the path
of the ice is often an important means of determining the direction of its motion.

The other characteristic peculiarity of these roches moutonnées consists in the direction of
the glacier-scratches, which ascend the slope to its summit in a direct line on one side, while
they deviate to the right and left on the other sides of the knoll, more or less obliquely
according to its steepness. Occasionally, large boulders may be found perched on the very summit
of such prominences. Their position is inexplicable by the supposition of currents as the cause
of their transportation. Any current strong enough to carry a boulder to such a height would
of course sweep it on with it. This phenomenon finds, however, an easy explanation in the glacial
theory. The thickness of such a sheet of ice is of course less above such a hill or mound than
over the lower levels adjoining it. Not only will the ice melt, therefore, more readily at
this spot, but, as ice is transparent to heat, the summit of the prominence will become warmed
by the rays of the sun, and will itself facilitate the melting of the ice above it. On the
breaking up of the ice, therefore, such a spot will be the first to yield, and allow the boulders
carried on the back of the glacier to fall into the hollow thus formed, where they will rest
upon the projecting rock left uncovered. This is no theoretical explanation; there are such
cases in Switzerland, where holes in the ice are formed immediately above the summit of hills
or prominences over which the glacier passes, and into which it drops its burdens. Of course,
where the ice is constantly renewed over such a spot by the onward progress of the glacier,
these materials may be carried off again; but if we suppose such a case to occur at the breaking
up of the glacier-period, when the ice was disappearing forever from such a spot, it is easy
to account for the poising of these large boulders on prominent peaks or ledges.

The appearances about the roches moutonnées, especially the straight scratches and grooves
on the side up which the ice ascended, have led to a mistaken view of the mode in which large
boulders are transported by ice. It has been supposed, by those who, while they accepted the
glacial theory, were not wholly conversant with the mode of action of glaciers, that, in passing
through the bottom of a valley, for instance, the glacier would take up large boulders, and,
carrying them along with it, would push them up such a slope and deposit them on its summit.
It is true that large boulders may sometimes be found in front of glaciers among the materials
of their terminal moraines, and may, upon any advance of the glacier, be pushed forward by
it. But I know of no example of erratic boulders being carried to considerable distances and
raised from lower to higher levels by this means. All the angular boulders perched upon prominent
rocks must have fallen upon the surface of the glacier in the upper part of its course, where
rocky ledges rise above its surface and send down their broken fragments. The surface of any
boulder carried under the ice, or pushed along for any distance at its terminus, would show
the friction and pressure to which it had been subjected. In this connection it should be remembered
that in the case of large glaciers low hills form no obstacle to their onward progress, especially
when the glacier is thick enough to cover them completely, and even to rise far above them.
The roches moutonnées about the Grimsel show that hills many hundred feet high have been passed
over by the great glacier of the Aar, when it descended as far as Meyringen, without having
seemingly influenced its onward progress.

But in enumerating the evidences of glacier-action, we have to remember not only the effects
produced upon the surface of the ground by the ice itself, but also the deposits it has left
behind it. The loose materials scattered over the face of the earth may point as distinctly
to the source of their distribution as does the character of the rocky surfaces on which they
rest indicate the different causes of abrasion. In characteristic localities the loose materials
deposited by glaciers may readily be recognized at first sight, and distinguished from water-worn
pebbles; nor is it difficult to distinguish both from loose materials resulting from the decomposition
of rocks on the spot,--the latter always agreeing with the rocks on which they rest, while
the decomposition to which they owe their separation from the solid rock is often still going
on. Such débris are found everywhere about disintegrating rocks, and they constantly mingle
with the loose fragments brought from a distance by various agencies. They are found upon and
among the glacier-worn pebbles, especially where the latter have themselves been disturbed
since their accumulation. They are also found among water-worn pebbles, wherever the rocky
beds of our rivers or the rocky bluffs of our sea-shores crumble down. In investigating the
character of loose materials transported from greater or less distances, either by the agency
of glaciers or by water-currents, it is important at the very outset to discriminate between
these deposits of older date and the local accessions mingling with them.

Occasionally we may have also to distinguish between all these deposits and the débris brought
down by land-slides, or by sudden freshets transporting to a distance a vast amount of loose
materials which are neither ice-worn nor water-worn. At Rossberg, for instance, in the Canton
of Schwitz, the land-slide which buried the village of Goldau under a terrific avalanche, and
filled a part of the Lake of Lauertz, spread an immense number of huge boulders across the
valley, some of which even rolled up the opposite side to a considerable height. Many of these
boulders might easily be mistaken for erratic boulders, were not the aggregate of these loose
materials traceable to the hills from which they descended. In this case water had no part
in loosening or bringing down this mass of fragments. They simply rolled from the declivity,
and stopped when they had exhausted the momentum imparted to them by their weight. In the case
of the débâcle of Bagnes, above Martigny, in a valley leading to the St. Bernard, the circumstances
were very different. A glacier, advancing beyond its usual limits and rising against the opposite
mountain-slope, dammed up the waters of the torrent and caused a lake to be formed. The obstruction
gave way in the course of time, and the waters of the lake rushed out, carrying along with
them huge boulders and a mass of loose materials of all sorts, and scattering them over the
plain below. Such an accumulation of débris differs from the pebbles and loose fragments found
in river-beds. The comparatively short distance over which they are carried, and the suddenness
of the transportation, allow no time for the abrasion which produces the smooth surfaces of
water-worn pebbles or the polished and scratched surfaces of glacier-worn ones. In the latter
case, we have seen that the pebbles, being so set in the ice as to expose only one side, may
be only partially polished, while others, more loosely held and turning in their sockets, may
receive the same high polish on every side. In such a case the lines will intersect one another,
in consequence of the different position in which the stone has been held at different times.
No such appearances exist in the water-worn pebbles: their blunt surfaces, smoothed and rounded
uniformly by the action of the water in which they have been rolled or tossed about, present
everywhere the same aspect.

The correlation between these different loose materials and the position in which they are
found helps us also to detect their origin. The loose materials bearing glacier-marks are always
found resting upon surfaces which have been worn, abraded, and engraved in the same manner,
while the water-worn pebbles are everywhere found resting upon rocks the abrasion of which
may be traced to water. It is true that in some localities, as, for instance, in the gravel-pit
of Mount Auburn, near Cambridge, large masses of glacier-worn pebbles alternate with beach-shingle;
but it is easy to show that there was here a glacier advancing into the sea, crowding its front
moraine and the materials carried under it over and into the shingle washed up by the waves
upon the beach. Not infrequently, also, river-pebbles may be found among glacial materials.
This is especially the case where, after the disappearance of large glaciers, rivers have occupied
their beds. Examples of this kind may be seen in all the valleys of the Alps.

But, besides the special character of the individual fragments, the true origin of any accumulation
of glacier-débris, commonly called drift, may be detected by the total absence of stratification,
so essential a feature in all water-deposits. This absence of stratification throughout its
mass is, after all, the great and important characteristic of the drift; and though I have
alluded to it before, I reiterate it here, as that which distinguishes it from all like accumulations
under water. I may be pardoned for dwelling upon this point, because the great controversy
among geologists respecting the nature and origin of the sheet of loose materials scattered
over a great part of the globe turns upon it. The débris of which the drift consists are thrown
together pell-mell, without any arrangement according to size or weight, larger and smaller
fragments being mixed so indiscriminately that the heaviest materials may be on the very summit
of the mass, and the lightest at the bottom in immediate contact with the underlying rock,
or the larger pieces may stand at any level in the mass of finer ones. Impalpable powder, coarse
sand, rounded, polished, and scratched fragments of every size are mixed together in a homogeneous
paste, in which the larger materials are imbedded, to use a homely, but expressive comparison,
like raisins and currants in a pudding. The adhesive paste holding all these fragments together
is, no doubt, the result of the friction to which the whole was subjected under the glacier,
and which has worked some of the softer materials into a kind of cement.

The mode of aggregation of water-worn materials is very different. Examine the shingle along
our beaches: we find it so distributed as to show that the fading tide-wave has carried the
lighter materials farther than the heavier ones, and the successive deposits exhibit an imperfect
cross-stratification resulting from changes in the height of the tide and the direction of
the wind. Moreover, in any materials collected under water we find the heavier ones at the
bottom, the lighter on the top. It is true that large angular boulders may occasionally be
found resting upon beach-shingle, but their presence in such a connection is easily explained.
They may have been dropped there by floating icebergs, or have fallen from crumbling drift-cliffs.

I should add, in speaking of drift-materials, that, while we find the large angular boulders
resting above them, we occasionally find boulders of unusual size mingled with them; but, when
this is the case, such massive fragments are more or less rounded, polished, and marked in
the same way as the smaller pebbles, or as the surfaces over which the glacier has passed.
This is important to remember, because, when we examine the drift in countries where the ice,
during the glacier-period, overtopped nearly all the mountains, so that few fragments could
fall from them upon its surface, we find scarcely any angular boulders, while the drift is
interspersed with larger fragments of this character, carried under the ice, instead of on
its back. Another distinction between water-worn deposits and drift consists in the fact that
the former are washed clean, while the latter always retains the mud gathered during its journey
and spread throughout its mass.

In summing up the glacial evidences, I must not omit the moraines, though I have described
them so fully in a previous article that I need not do more than allude to them here; but any
argument for the glacial theory which did not include these characteristic walls erected by
glaciers would be most imperfect. We need hardly discuss the theory of currents with reference
to the formation of terminal moraines, extending across the valleys from side to side. Any
current powerful enough to bring the boulders and débris of all sorts of which these walls
are composed to the places where they are found would certainly not build them up with such
regularity, but would sweep them away or scatter them along the bottom of the valley. That
this is actually the case is seen in the lower course of the valley of the Rhone, where there
are no transverse moraines, while they are frequent and undisturbed in the upper part of the
valley. This is no doubt owing to the fact, that, when the main glacier had already retreated
considerably up the valley, the lateral glaciers from the chains of the Combin and the Diablerets
still reached the valley of the Rhone at a lower point, and barred the outlet of the waters
from the glaciers above. A lake was thus formed, which, when the lower glaciers retreated up
the lateral valleys, swept away all the lower transverse moraines, and formed the flat bottom
of Martigny. In this case, the moraines were totally obliterated; but there are many other
instances in which the materials have been only broken up and scattered over a wider surface
by currents. In such remodelled moraines, the glacier-mud has, of course, been more or less
washed away. We have here a blending of the action of water with that of the glacier; and,
indeed, how could it be otherwise, when the colossal glaciers of past ages gradually disappeared
or retreated to the mountain-heights? The wasting ice must have occasioned immense freshets,
the action of which we shall trace hereafter, when examining the formation of our drift-ponds,
of our river-beds and estuaries, as well as the river-terraces standing far above the present
water-level.

And now, if it be asked how much of this evidence for the former existence of glaciers is to
be found in Great Britain, I answer, that there is not a valley in Switzerland where all these
traces are found in greater perfection than in the valleys of the Scotch Highlands, or of the
mountains of Ireland and Wales, or of the lake-region in England. Not a link is wanting to
the chain. Polished surfaces, traversed by striæ, grooves, and furrows, with a sheet of drift
resting immediately upon them, extend throughout the realm,--the roches moutonnées raise their
rounded backs from the ground there as in Switzerland,--transverse moraines bar their valleys
and lateral ones border them, and the boulders from the hill-sides are scattered over the plains
as thickly as between the Alps and the Jura, and are here and there perched upon the summits
of isolated hills. This being the case, let us examine a little more closely the local phenomena
connected with the ancient extension of glaciers in this region, and especially the parallel
roads of Glen Roy.

Among the Grampian Hills, a little to the northeast of Ben Nevis, lies the valley of Glen Roy,
a winding valley trending in a northeasterly direction, and some ten miles in length. Across
the mouth of this valley, at right angles with it, runs the valley of Glen Spean, trending
from east to west, Glen Roy thus opening directly at its southern extremity into Glen Spean.
Around the walls of the Glen Roy valley run three terraces, one above the other, at different
heights, like so many roads artificially cut in the sides of the valley, and indeed they go
by the name of the "parallel roads." These three terraces, though in a less perfect state of
preservation, are repeated for a short distance at exactly the same levels on the southern
wall of the valley of Glen Spean, just opposite the opening of the Glen Roy valley; that is,
they make the whole circuit of Glen Roy, stop abruptly, on both sides, at its southern extremity,
and reappear again on the opposite wall of Glen Spean. I should add, however, that all three
do not come to this sudden termination; for the lowest of these terraces turns eastward into
the valley of Glen Spean, following the whole curve of the eastern half of the valley, while,
of the two upper terraces, there is no trace whatever, nor is there any indication that either
of the three ever existed in the western half of the valley. When I first visited the region,
these phenomena had already been the subject of earnest discussion among English geologists.
The commonly accepted explanation of the facts was that these terraces marked ancient sea-levels
at a time when the ocean penetrated much farther into the interior, and Glen Roy and the adjoining
valleys were as many fiords or estuaries. And though the present elevation of the locality
made such an interpretation improbable at first sight, the first or highest of the terraces
being eleven hundred and forty-four feet above the present sea-level, the second eighty-two
feet below the first, and the third and lowest two hundred and twelve feet below the second,
or eight hundred odd feet above the level of the sea, it was thought that the oscillations
of the land, its alternate subsidences and upheavals, proved by the modern results of geology
to have been so great and so frequent, might account even for so remarkable a change. There
are, however, other objections to this theory not so easily explained away. There are no traces
of organic life upon these terraces. If they were ancient sea-beaches, we should expect to
find upon them the remains of marine animals, shells, crustacea, and the like. All the explanations
given to lessen the significance of this absence of organic remains are futile. Again, why
should the lower terrace alone be continued into the eastern end of the valley of Glen Spean,
while there are no terraces at all in its western part, since both must have been as fully
open to the sea as Glen Roy valley itself? This seemed the more inexplicable since all the
terraces exist on the valley-wall opposite the outlet of Glen Roy, showing that this sheet
of water, wherever it came from, filled the valley itself and the space between it and the
southern wall of Glen Spean, but failed to spread, on either side of that space, into the eastern
and western extension of Glen Spean. It is evident, that, at the time the water filled Glen
Roy, some obstruction blocked the valley of Glen Spean, both to the east and west, leaving,
however, that space in the centre free into which Glen Roy opens, while, by the time the water
had sunk to the level of the lowest terrace, one of these barriers, that to the east, must
have been removed, for the lowest terrace, as I have said, is continuous throughout the eastern
part of Glen Spean.[B]

Prepossessed as I was with the idea of glacial agency in times anterior to ours, these phenomena
appeared to me under a new aspect. I found the bottom of Glen Spean so worn by glacial action
as to leave no doubt in my mind that it must have been the bed of a great glacier, and Dr.
Buckland fully concurred with me in this impression. Indeed, the face of the country throughout
that region presents not only the glacier-marks in great perfection, but other evidences of
the ancient presence of glaciers. There are moraines at the lower end of Glen Spean, remodelled,
it is true, by the action of currents, but still retaining enough of their ancient character
to be easily recognized; and some of the finest examples of the roches moutonnées I have seen
in Scotland are to be found at the entrance of the valley of Loch Treig, a lateral valley opening
into Glen Spean on its southern side, and, as we shall see hereafter, intimately connected
with the history of the parallel roads of Glen Roy. These roches moutonnées may very fairly
be compared with those of the Grimsel, and exhibit all the characteristic features of the Alpine
ones. One of them, lying on the western side of the valley where it opens into Glen Spean,
is crossed by a trap-dike. The general surface of the hill, consisting of rather soft mica,
has been slightly worn down by atmospheric agencies, so that the dike stands out some three-quarters
of an inch above it. On the dike, however, the glacier-marks extend for its whole length in
great perfection, while they have entirely disappeared from the surrounding surfaces, so as
to leave the dike thus standing out in full relief. This is an instructive case, showing how
little disintegration has gone on since the drift-period. All the currents that have swept
over it, all the rains that have beaten upon it, have not worn away one inch from the original
surface of the hill. I have observed many other roches moutonnées in Scotland, especially about
the neighborhood of Loch Awe, Loch Fyne, and Loch Etive. In fact, they may be found in almost
all the glens of Scotland, in the lake-region of England, and in the valleys of Wales and Ireland.

Following the glacial indications wherever we could find them in the country about Glen Roy,
it became evident to me that the whole western range of the Grampian Hills had once been a
great centre of glaciers, that they had come down toward Glen Spean through all the valleys
on the mountain-slopes to the north and south of it, so that this valley had become, as it
were, the great drainage-bed for the masses of ice thus poured into it laterally, and moving
down the valley from east to west as one immense glacier. It is natural to suppose, that, at
the breaking-up of the great sheet of ice which, if my view of the case is correct, must have
covered the whole country at this time, the ice would yield more readily in a valley like that
of Glen Roy, lying open to the south and receiving the full force of the sun, than in those
on the opposite side of Glen Spean, opening to the north. At all events, it is evident that
at some time posterior to this universal glacial period, when the ice began to retreat, Glen
Roy became the basin of a glacial lake such as we now find in the Alps of Switzerland, where
occasionally a closed valley becomes a trough, as it were, into which the water from the surrounding
hills is drained. In such a lake no animals are found, such as exist in any other sheet of
fresh water, and this would account for the absence of any organic remains on the terraces
of Glen Roy. But at first sight it seemed that this theory was open in one respect to the same
objection as the other. What prevented this sheet of water from spreading east and west in
Glen Spean? If it not only filled Glen Roy, but extended to the southern side of Glen Spean
immediately opposite the opening of Glen Roy, what prevented it from filling the whole of that
valley also? In endeavoring to answer this question, I found the solution of the mystery.

The bed of Glen Spean, through its whole extent from east to west, is marked, as I have said,
by glacial action, in rectilinear scratches and furrows. This westward track of the main glacier
is crossed transversely near the centre of the valley by two other glacier-tracks cutting it
at right angles. Upon tracing these cross-tracks carefully, I became satisfied, that, after
the surrounding ice had begun to yield, after the masses of ice which descended from the northern
and southern slopes of the mountains into Glen Spean had begun to retreat, and to form local
limited glaciers, two of those lateral glaciers, one coming down from Ben Nevis on the southwest,
the other from Loch Treig on the southeast, extended farther than the others and stretched
across Glen Spean.[C] These two glaciers for a long time formed barriers across the western
and eastern extension of this valley, damming back the waters which filled Glen Roy and the
central part of Glen Spean.

Evidently the glacier descending from Loch Treig was the first to yield, for, by the time the
Glen Roy lake had sunk to the level of the lowest terrace, the entrance to the eastern extension
of the valley must have been free, otherwise the water could not have spread throughout that
basin as we find it did; but it would seem that by the time the western barrier, or the glacier
from Ben Nevis, was removed, the sheet of water was too far reduced to have left permanent
marks of its outflow into the Great Glen, except by disturbing and remodelling the large moraines
of the older Glen Spean glacier. There are faint indications of other terraces in Glen Roy,
even at a higher level than the uppermost parallel road, owing their origin probably to the
short duration of a higher level of the glacier-lake, when the great general glacier had not
yet been lowered to a more permanent level determined by a limited circumscription within the
walls of the valleys. There are other terraces in neighboring valleys at still different levels,--in
Glen Gloy, for instance, where the one horizontal road was no doubt formed in consequence of
the damming of the valley by a glacier from Loch Arkeig. Mr. Darwin has seen another in Glen
Kinfillen, which I would explain by the presence of a glacier in the Great Glen, the marks
of which are particularly distinct about the eastern end of Glen Garry.

The evidence of the ancient presence of glaciers is no less striking in other parts of the
Scotch Highlands. Between the southeastern range of the Grampian Hills, in Forfarshire and
Perthshire, and the opposite ridge of Sidlaw Hills, stretches the broad valley of Strathmore.
At the time when Glen Spean received the masses of ice from the slopes of the western Grampian
range, the glaciers descended from the valleys on the southern slope of the southeastern range
and from those on the northern slope of Sidlaw Hills into the capacious bed of the valley which
divides them. The glacial phenomena of this region present a striking resemblance in their
general relations to those of the Alps and the Jura. The Grampian range on the northern side
of Strathmore valley occupies the same position in reference to that of the Sidlaw Hills opposite,
as does the range of the Alps to that of the Jura, while the intervening valley may be compared
to the plain of Switzerland. As from the Bernese Oberland and from the valleys of the Reuss
and Limmath gigantic glaciers came down and stretched across the plain of Switzerland to the
Jura, scattering their erratic boulders over its summit and upon its slopes at the time of
their greater extension, and, as they withdrew into the higher Alpine valleys, leaving them
along their retreating track at the foot of the Jura and over the whole plain, so did the glaciers
from Glen Prossen and parallel valleys on the Grampian Mountains extend across the valley of
Strathmore, dropping their boulders not only on the slopes and along the base of the Sidlaw
Hills, but scattering them in their retreat throughout the valley, until they were themselves
reduced to isolated glaciers in the higher valleys. At the same time other glaciers came down
from the heights of Schihallion on the west, and, descending through the valley of the Tay,
joined the great masses of ice in the valley of Strathmore, thus combining with the eastern
ice-field, just as the glacier from Mont Blanc and the valley of the Rhone formerly combined
in the western part of Switzerland with those of the Bernese Oberland. The relations are identical,
though the geographical position is reversed,--the higher range, or the Grampian Hills, lying
to the north in Scotland, and the lower one, or the Sidlaw Hills, to the south, while in Switzerland,
on the contrary, the higher range lies to the south and the lower to the north. I have alluded
especially to Glen Prossen because the glacial marks in that valley are remarkably distinct,
the whole bed of the valley being scratched, polished, and furrowed by the great rasp which
has moved over it, while the concentric moraines at its lower extremity are very striking.
But these signs, so perfectly preserved in Glen Prossen, recur with greater or less intensity
in all the corresponding valleys, leaving no doubt that the same phenomena existed over the
whole region.

Among the localities of Scotland where the indications of glacial action are most marked is
the region about Stirling. Near Stirling Castle the polished surfaces of the rocks with their
distinct grooves and scratches show us the path followed by the ice as it moved down in a northeasterly
direction toward the Frith of Forth from the mountains on the northwest. To the west of Edinburgh,
also, there is a broad glacier-track, showing that here also the ice was ploughing its way
eastward to find an outlet on the shore.

The western slope of the great Scotch range is no less remarkable for its glacier-traces. The
heads of Loch Long, Loch Fyne, Loch Awe, and Loch Leven everywhere show upon their margins
the most distinct glacial polish and furrows, while from the trend of these marks and the distribution
of the moraines, especially about Ben Cruachan, it is obvious that in this part of the country
the glaciers moved westward and southward. About Aberdeen, on the contrary, they moved eastward,
while in the vicinity of Elgin they advanced toward the north.

It thus appears that the whole range of the Grampians formed a great centre for the distribution
of glaciers, and that a colossal ice-field spread itself over the whole country, extending
in every direction toward the lower lands and the sea-shore. As the glaciers which now descend
through all the valleys of the Alps, along their northern as well as their southern slopes,
and in their eastern as well as their western prolongation, though limited, in our days, within
the valley-walls, nevertheless once covered the plain of Switzerland and that of Northern Italy,
so did the ice-fields of the Grampians during the greatest extension of the Scotch glaciers
spread over the whole country. They also were, in course of time, reduced to local glaciers,
circumscribed within the higher valleys of the more mountainous parts of the country, until
they totally disappeared, as those of Switzerland would also have done, had it not been for
the greater elevation of that country above the level of the sea. Scotland nowhere rises above
the present level of perpetual snow, while in Switzerland the whole Alpine range has an altitude
favorable to the preservation of glaciers. In the range of the Jura, however, which had at
one time its local glaciers also, but which nowhere now rises above the line of perpetual snow,
they have disappeared as completely as in the Grampian Hills.

It would lead me too far, were I to give here a special account of all the investigations I
made in 1840 upon the distribution of glaciers in Great Britain. I will therefore only point
out a few of the more distinct areas of distribution. The region surrounding Ben Wyvis formed
such a centre of dispersion from which glaciers radiated, and we have another in the Pentland
Hills about Edinburgh. In Northumberland, the Cheviot Hills present a glacial centre of the
same kind, and in the Westmoreland Hills we have still another. In the last-named locality,
the glacial tracks can be followed in various directions, some of them descending toward the
northwest from the heights of Helvellyn, others moving southward toward Ambleside. In Wales
the same kind of glacial distribution has been observed; but, as Professor Ramsay has treated
this subject in full, I would refer my readers to his masterly work for a further account of
the ancient Welch glaciers. In Ireland I had also opportunities of making extensive local investigations
of glacial action. I observed the centres of distribution in the neighborhood of Belfast, in
the County of Wicklow, and in Cavan.

But nowhere are these phenomena more striking than in Fermanagh County about the neighborhood
of Enniskillen, and more especially in the immediate vicinity of Florence Court, the seat of
the Earl of Enniskillen. On the northern slope of Ben Calcagh are five valleys lying parallel
with each other and opening into the valley of Loch Nilly, which runs from east to west at
the base of the mountain. A road now passes through this valley, and, where it crosses the
mouth of either of the five valleys rising towards the mountain-slope, it cuts alternately
through the two horns of a crescent-shaped wall which bars the lower end of every one of them.
These crescent-shaped mounds are so many terminal moraines, built up by the five glaciers formerly
descending through these lateral valleys into the valley of Loch Nilly. They bore the same
relation to each other as the glaciers de Tour and d'Argentière, the Glacier des Bois with
the Mer de Glace, the Glacier des Bossons and the Glacier de Taconet, now bear to each other
in the valley of Chamouni; and were it not for the smaller dimensions of the whole, any one
familiar with the tracks of ancient glaciers might easily fancy himself crossing the ancient
moraines at the foot of the northern slope of the range of Mont Blanc, through which the Arve
has cut its channel, the valley of Chamouni standing in the same relation to Mont Blanc as
the valley of Loch Nilly does to Ben Calcagh.

I have dwelt thus at length on the glaciers of Great Britain because they have been the subject
of my personal investigations. But the Scotch Highlands and the mountains of Wales and Ireland
are but a few of the many centres of glacial distribution in Europe. From the Scandinavian
Alps glaciers descended also to the shores of the Northern Ocean and the Baltic Sea. There
is not a fiord of the Norway shore that does not bear upon its sides the tracks of the great
masses of ice which once forced their way through it, and thus found an outlet into the sea,
as in Scotland. Indeed, under the water, as far as it is possible to follow them through the
transparent medium, I have noticed in Great Britain and in the United States the same traces
of glacial action as higher up, so that these ancient glaciers must have extended not only
to the sea-shore, but into the ocean, as they do now in Greenland. Nor is this all. Scandinavian
boulders, scattered upon English soil and over the plains of Northern Germany, tell us that
not only the Baltic Sea, but the German Ocean also, was bridged across by ice, on which these
masses of rock were transported. In short, over the whole of Northern Europe, from the Arctic
Ocean to the northern borders of its southern promontories, we find all the usual indications
of glacial action, showing that a continuous sheet of ice once spread over nearly the whole
continent, while from all the mountain-ranges descended those more limited glacial tracks terminating
frequently in transverse moraines across the valleys, showing, that, as the general ice-sheet
broke up and contracted into local glaciers, every cluster or chain of hills became a centre
of glacial dispersion, such as the Alps are now, such as the Jura, the Highlands of Scotland,
the mountains of Wales and Ireland, the Alps of Scandinavia, the Hartz, the Black Forest, the
Vosges, and many others have been in ancient times.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the next article we shall consider the glacial phenomena as they exist in America.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] See January No., p. 61.

[B] Having enumerated the characteristic features of the glacial phenomena in the preceding
pages, I throw into this note some explanation which may render my views of the parallel roads
more intelligible, not to interrupt again the exposition with details. It would be desirable,
however, that the reader should first make himself thoroughly familiar with the localities
concerned, before proceeding any farther. I would therefore state here, that, in the wood-cut
opposite, G. R. indicates the valley of Glen Roy, with the three parallel roads marked 1, 2,
3. Glen Spean is designated by G. S., and the river flowing at its bottom by S. Loch Laggan,
out of which the River Spean rises, is marked L. G. indicates Glen Gloy, a little valley to
the northwest of Glen Roy, with a single terrace. Loch Treig is designated by T., Loch Lochy
by L. O., Loch Arkeig by A., and Moeldhu Hill by M., while E. indicates Loch Eil. The Great
Glen of Scotland, through which the Caledonian Canal runs, extends in the direction of L. O.
and E. The position of Ben Nevis is designated by N. The dotted area between N. and M. marks
the place occupied by the great glacier of Ben Nevis, when it extended as far as Moeldhu; while
the close continuous lines in front of Loch Treig indicate the direction of the glacial scratches
left across Glen Spean by the glacier of Loch Treig, when it extended as far as the eastern
termination of the two upper terraces. It ought to be remembered, in this connection, that
the bottom of the valley of the Spean, as well as that of Glen Roy, is occupied by loose materials,
partly drift, that is, materials acted upon by glaciers, and partly decomposed fragments of
rocks brought down by the torrents, greatly impeding the observation of the polished surfaces.
The river-bed is cut through this deposit, and here and there through the underlying rock.
Besides the parallel roads, there are also peculiar accumulations of loose materials in Glen
Roy and Glen Spean, more particularly connected with the lowest terrace, which Mr. Darwin and
Professor Jamieson have shown to be little deltas formed during the existence of the lake of
Glen Roy at the bottom of the gullies intersecting the shelves of the upper roads. The outlet
for the water at the period during which the second terrace was formed, not known when I visited
Glen Roy, has been discovered by Mr. Milne-Holme, and also observed by Professor Jamieson.
During the formation of the upper terrace, the waters escaped through the westernmost tributary
of the River Spey, in the direction of the northeast corner of the wood-cut, and during that
of the lowest terrace, at the eastern end of Loch Laggan, also through the valley of the Spey.
The state of preservation of the parallel roads is such as to prove that no disturbance of
any importance can have taken place in the country since they were formed. Far from believing,
therefore, that these remarkable shelves are ancient sea-beaches, I am prepared to maintain,
that, had the area occupied by them been submerged only for a few days, under an ocean rising
and falling for several feet with every tide, no vestige would have been left of their former
existence.

[C] The wood-cut on p. 730 is a reproduction of the little map accompanying a paper of mine
upon "The Glacial Theory and its Recent Progress," printed in the "Edinburgh New Philosophical
Journal" for October, 1842. I might have greatly improved the topography, and represented more
accurately the details of the phenomenon, by availing myself of the much larger and very minute
map recently published by Professor Thomas F. Jamieson, of Aberdeen; but I thought it advisable
to leave my first sketch as I presented it twenty-two years ago, in order to show that Sir
Charles Lyell is mistaken in ascribing (see "Antiquity of Man," pp. 260, 261) the discovery
of the glacier of Loch Treig to Professor Jamieson. A comparison of his statements with mine
will show that the solution of the problem offered by him is identical with that proposed by
me, as he himself candidly admits ("Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society" for August,
1863, p. 239). I have only one fault to find with his observations, and, as I have never revisited
the locality since, this remark may satisfy him that my examination of its features was not
so hurried as he supposes. Professor Jamieson confounds the effects of two distinct glaciers
moving in different valleys as the action of one and the same glacier. In my paper, it is true,
I made no allusion to the great glacier of Glen Spean, the existence of which I had recognized
along the river from Loch Laggan nearly to the Caledonian Canal. I publish my observations
upon this great central glacier for the first time in the present article, having omitted them
in my contributions upon this subject to the scientific periodicals of the day simply because
I thought best not to complicate my exposition of the facts concerning the parallel roads by
considerations foreign to their origin, convinced as I was, from the manner in which the glacial
theory was then received, that they would not be understood, and still less admitted. But now
that all the geologists of Great Britain seem to have given their adhesion to it, I may be
permitted to state that I already knew then, what Professor Jamieson has overlooked in his
latest paper, that a separate glacier had occupied the valley of the Spean prior to the formation
of the parallel roads, and that at that time the glacier of Loch Treig was only a lateral tributary
of the same, just as the glacier of the Thierberg is a tributary of the glacier of the Aar.
It was not until the Glen Spean glacier had retreated to the hills east of Loch Laggan that
the glacier of Loch Treig could form a barrier across Glen Spean, and thus dam the waters in
Glen Roy which produced the parallel roads. The marks left by the great Glen Spean glacier
in the valley are mistaken by Professor Jamieson for indications, that, in its greatest extension,
the glacier of Loch Treig not only advanced across Glen Spean, but divided into two branches,
one moving westward down Glen Spean, the other eastward up Glen Spean, as far as Loch Laggan.
Any one sufficiently familiar with existing glaciers to compare their action with the phenomena
referred to above will at once see the impossibility of such a course for any glacier coming
down from Loch Treig. At the time the Grampians had become a separate centre of glacial action
a great glacier must have moved down, towards the Caledonian Canal, through Glen Spean, receiving
as tributaries lateral glaciers not only from Loch Treig and Glen Roy, but also from all the
other minor lateral valleys emptying into Glen Spean, the largest of which must have come from
the range of Ben Nevis,--just as the great glacier of the valley of the Rhone once received
as tributaries all the glaciers coming down into that valley from the southern slope of the
Bernese Oberland, and from the northern slope of the Valesian Alps, and at one time also from
the eastern slopes of the range of Mont Blanc. And when the large glacier occupying the lower,
and therefore warmer, level gradually disappeared and retreated far away to levels where it
could maintain itself against the effect of a returning milder climate, the opening spring
of our era, as we may call it, the lateral glaciers, arising from the nearer high grounds,
could extend across the valleys, but not before.

UNDER THE CLIFF.

    "Still ailing, Wind? Wilt be appeased or no?
      Which needs the other's office, thou or I?
    Dost want to be disburthened of a woe,
      And can, in truth, my voice untie
    Its links, and let it go?

    "Which sigh wouldst mock, of all the sighs? The one
      So long escaping from lips starved and blue,
    That lasts while on her pallet-bed the nun
      Stretches her length; her foot comes through
    The straw she shivers on,--

    "You had not thought she was so tall; and spent,
      Her shrunk lids open; her lean fingers shut
    Close, close; their sharp and livid nails indent
      The clammy palm; then all is mute:
    That way, the spirit went.

           *       *       *       *       *

    All this, and more, comes from some young man's pride
      Of power to see, in failure and mistake,
    Relinquishment, disgrace, on every side,
      Merely examples for his sake,
    Helps to his path untried:

    Instances he must--simply recognize?
      Oh, more than so!--must, with a learner's zeal,
    Make doubly prominent, twice emphasize,
      By added touches that reveal
    The god in babe's disguise.

    That's a new question; still remains the fact,
      Nothing endures: the wind moans, saying so;
    We moan in acquiescence: there's life's pact,
      Perhaps probation,--do I know?
    God does: endure His act!

    Only, for man, how bitter not to grave
      On his soul's hands' palms one fair, good, wise thing
    Just as he grasped it! For himself, death's wave;
      While time first washes--ah, the sting!--
    O'er all he'd sink to save.

SEVEN WEEKS IN THE GREAT YO-SEMITE.

It is as hard to leave San Francisco as to get there. To a traveller paying his first visit
it has the interest of a new planet. It ignores the meteorological laws which govern the rest
of the world. There is no snow there. There are no summer showers. The tailor recognizes no
aphelion or perihelion in his custom: the thin woollen suit which his patron had made in April
is comfortably worn until April again. The only change of stockings there is from wet to dry,
or from soiled to clean. Save that in so-called winter frequent rainfalls alternate with spotless
intervals of amber weather, and that soi-disant summer is one entire amber mass, its unbroken
divine days concrete in it, there is no inequality on which to forbid the banns between May
and December. In San Francisco there is no work for the scene-shifter of Nature: the wealth
of that great dramatist, the year, resulting in the same manner as the poverty of dabblers
in private theatricals,--a single flat doing service for the entire play. Thus, save for the
purpose of notes-of-hand, the Almanac of San Francisco might replace its mutable months and
seasons with one great kindly, constant, sumptuous All The Year Round.

Out of this benignant sameness what glorious fruits are produced! Fruit enough metaphorical:
for the scientific man or artist who cannot make hay while such a sun shines from April to
November must be a slothful laborer indeed. But fruit also literal: for what joy of vegetation
is lacking to the man who every month in the year can look through his study-window on a green
lawn, and have strawberries and cream for his breakfast,--who can sit down to this royal fruit,
and at the same time to apricots, peaches, nectarines, blackberries, raspberries, melons, figs
both yellow and purple, early apples, and grapes of three kinds?

Another delightful fact of San Francisco is the Occidental Hotel. Its comfort is like that
of a royal home. There is nothing inn-ish about it. Remembering the chief hotels of many places,
I am constrained to say that I have never, even in New York, seen its equal for elegance of
appointment, attentiveness of servants, or excellence of cuisine. Having come to this extreme
of civilization from the extreme of barbarism, we found that it actually needed an exertion
to leap from the lap of luxury, after a fortnight's pleasaunce, and take to the woods again
in flannel and corduroys.

But far more seductive than the beautiful bay, the heavenly climate, the paradisiacal fruits,
and the royal hotel of San Francisco, were the old friends whom we found, and the new ones
we made there. With but one exception, (and that an express-company, not a man,) we were received
by all our San-Francisco acquaintance in a kind and helpful manner, with a welcome and a cheer
as delightful to ourselves as it was honorable to them. Need I say whose brotherly hands were
among the very first outstretched to us, in whose happy home we found our sweetest rest, by
whose radiant face and golden speech we were most lovingly detained evening after evening and
far into the night? A few days ago when we read that dreadful message, "Starr King is dead,"
the lightning that carried it seemed to end in our hearts. We withered under it; California
had lost its soul for us; at noon or in dreams that balmy land would nevermore be the paradise
it once was to us. The last hand that pressed our own, when we sailed for the Isthmus on our
way home, was the same that had been first to give us our California welcome. Just before the
lines were cast off, Starr King stood at the door of our state-room, and said,--

"I could not bear to have you go away without one more good-bye. Here are the cartes-de-visite
I promised. They look hard-worked, but they look like me. Good bye! God bless you! I hope to
make a visit to the East next summer, and then we will get together somewhere by the sea. Good
bye!"

He went down the ladder. When the steamer glided off, his bright face sent benedictions after
us as far as we could see; and then, for the last time on earth, that great, that good, that
beloved man faded from our sight,--but, oh! never from our hearts, either in the here or the
hereafter. "We shall see him, but not now." We shall be together with him "in the summer, by
the sea"; but that summer shall have other glory than the sun to lighten it, and the sea shall
be of crystal.

King was to have joined us in our Yo-Semite trip. We little knew that we were losing, for this
world, our last opportunity of close daily intercourse with his sweet spirit, though we were
grievously disappointed when he told us, on the eve of our setting out, that work for the nation
must detain him in San Francisco, after all.

If report was true, we were going to the original site of the Garden of Eden,--into a region
which out-Bendemered Bendemere, out-valleyed the valley of Rasselas, surpassed the Alps in
its waterfalls, and the Himmal'yeh in its precipices. As for the two former subjects of comparison,
we never met any tourist who could adjust the question from his own experience; but the superiority
of the Yo-Semite to the Alpine cataracts was a matter put beyond doubt by repeated judgments,
and a couple of English officers who had explored the wildest Himmal'yeh scenery told Starr
King that there was no precipice in Asia to be compared for height or grandeur with Tu-toch-anula
and Tis-sa-ack.

We were going into the vale whose giant domes and battlements had months before thrown their
photographic shadow through Watkins's camera across the mysterious wide continent, causing
exclamations of awe at Goupil's window, and ecstasy in Dr. Holmes's study. At Goupil's counter
and in Starr King's drawing-room we had gazed on them by the hour already,--I, let me confess
it, half a Thomas-a-Didymus to Nature, unwilling to believe the utmost true of her till I could
put my finger in her very prints. Now we were going to test her reported largess for ourselves.

No Saratoga affair, this! A total lack of tall trunks, frills, and curling-kids. Driven by
the oestrum of a Yo-Semite pilgrimage, the San-Francisco belle forsakes (the Western vernacular
is "goes back on") her back-hair, abandons her capillary "waterfalls" for those of the Sierra,
and, like John Phoenix's old lady who had her whole osseous system removed by the patent tooth-puller,
departs, leaving her "skeleton" behind her. The bachelor who cares to see unhooped womanhood
once more before he dies should go to the Yo-Semite. The scene was three or four times presented
to us during our seven weeks' camp there,--though the trip is one which might well cost a feeble
woman her life.

Our male preparations were of the most pioneer description. One wintry day since my return
I was riding in a train on the New-York Central, when an undaunted herdsman, returning Westward,
flushed with the sale of beeves, accosted me with the question,--"Friend, yeou've travelled
consid'able, and believe in the religion of Natur', don't ye?" "Why so?" I responded. "Them
boots," replied my new acquaintance, pointing at a pair with high knee-caps, like those our
party wore to the Yo-Semite. Otherwise, we took the oldest clothes we had,--and it is not difficult
to find that variety in the trunk of a recent overland stager. We were armed with Ballard rifles,
shot-guns, and Colt's revolvers which had come with us across the continent; our ammunition
we got in San Francisco, together with all such commissariat-luxuries as were worth transportation:
our necessaries we left to be purchased at that jumping-off place of civilization, Mariposa,
whence we were to start our pack-mules into the wilderness. Let me recommend tourists like
ourselves to include in the former catalogue plenty of canned fruits, sardines, and apple-butter,--in
the latter, a jug of sirup for the inevitable camp slapjacks. No woodsman, as will presently
appear in our narrative, can tell when a slapjack may be the last plank between him and starvation;
and to this plank how powerfully sirup enables him to stick!

The only portion of our outfit which would have pleased an exquisite (and he must be rather
of the Count-Devereux than the Foppington-Flutter school) was our horseflesh. That greatest
of luxuries, a really good saddle-animal, is readily and reasonably attainable in California.
Everybody rides there; if you wish to create a sensation with your horsemanship in the streets
of San Francisco, you must ride ill, not well: everybody does this last. Even since the horse-railroad
has begun to clutter Montgomery Street (the San-Franciscan Boulevards) with its cars, it is
a daily matter to see capitalists and statesmen charging through that thoroughfare on a gallop,
which, if repeated in Broadway by Henry G. Stebbins, would cost him his reputation on 'Change
and his seat in the next Congress. The nation of beggars-on-horseback which first colonized
California has left behind it many traditions unworthy of conservation, and multitudinous fleas
not at all traditional, but even less keepworthy; but all honor be to the Spaniards, Greasers,
and Mixed-Breeds for having rooted the noble idea of horsemanship so firmly in the country
that even street-railroads cannot uproot it, and that Americans who never sat even so little
as an Atlantic-State's pony, on coming here presently take to the saddle with all their hearts.
In most of the smaller Californian towns, a very serviceable half- or quarter-breed saddle-horse
is to be had for forty dollars,--the "breed" portion of his blood being drawn from an Eastern
stallion, the remaining fraction being native or Mustang stock. This animal, if need be, will
live on road-side croppings nearly as well as a mule,--travel all day long on an easy "lope,"
never offering to stop till fatigue makes him fall,--and, if you let him, will take you through
chaparrals, and up and down precipices at whose bare suggestion an Eastern horse would break
his legs. Our party, seeking rather more ambitious mounts, supplied itself, after a tour through
the San-Francisco stables, with saddle-animals at an average of seventy dollars apiece. This,
payable in gold, then amounted to one hundred dollars in notes; but the New-York market could
not have furnished us with such horses for one hundred and fifty dollars.

It may seem as if, like most cavalcades, we should never get started, but I must linger a moment
to do justice to our accoutrements. If there be a more perfect saddle than the Californian,
I would ride bare-back a good way to get it. Anything more unlike the slippery little pad on
which we of the East amble about parks and suburban roads cannot be imagined. It is not for
a day, but for all time, and for those who spend nearly the latter in it. Its wooden skeleton
is as scientifically fitted to the rider's form as an old "incroyable's" pair of pantaloons.
There is no such thing as getting tired in or of it. Rising to the lower lumbar vertebrae behind,
and in front terminating gracefully in a broad-topped pommel, it enables one to lean back in
descending, forward in climbing, the great ridges on the path of California travel,--thus affording
capital relief both to one's self and one's horse, and bringing in both from a fifty-miles'
march comparatively unjaded.

The stirrups of this saddle are broad hickory hoops, shaped nearly like an Omega upside-down
(U), left unpolished so as to afford the most unshakable footing, covered with a half-shoe
of the stoutest leather, which renders it impossible for the toe to slip through or the ankle
to foul under any circumstances. Attached to the straps from which these swing is a wide and
neatly ornamented stirrup-leather, which effectually prevents the grazing of the rider's leg.
The surcingle, or, Californicè, the cinch, is a broad strip of hair-cloth with a padded ring
at either end through which you reeve and fasten with a half-hitch stout straps sewed to other
rings under the saddle-flaps. This arrangement is not only far securer than our Eastern buckle,
but enables you to graduate the tightness of your girth much more delicately, and make a far
snugger fit.

The only particular in which I could not commend and adopt the native practice was the Mexican
bit. It is a dreadful instrument of torture, putting immense leverage in the rider's hands,
and enabling him at will to tear the mouth of his horse to pieces; indeed, the horse on which
it is used is guided entirely by pressure on the opposite side of the neck from that in which
one seeks to turn him. Our Eastern way of drawing his head around would so lift the bit as
to drive him frantic. There are very few horses of any breed, even the Mustang, that never
stumble; and as I prefer lifting my horse to letting him break his knees or neck, I want a
bridle I can pull upon without tearing his mouth. So, in spite of its handsome appearance and
the very manageable single white cord into which its two reins are braided, I eschewed the
Mexican head-gear, and took the ordinary Eastern snaffle and curb. Immense spurs completed
our accoutrement,--whips being here unknown.

I may as well make a word-map of our route before going farther. Pilgrims to the Yo-Semite
ship themselves and their horses from San Francisco by steamer to Stockton. This town is on
the San Joaquin, the most northerly of a series of rivers fed directly from the Sierra Nevada
water-shed, and here through the middle portion of the State,--a series, indeed, continued
through much of the still lower Pacific coast to the Isthmus of Nicaragua. The Sacramento drains
quite a different region, that of the broad plains between the Sierra and Coast ranges, occupying
the northern portion of the State,--resembling in its physical features, much more than any
of the Pacific streams beside, the large isolated trunks which drain the east slope of the
Alleghanies. The Colorado is almost the only other large river created from many tributaries,
which debouches between the Columbia and the Isthmus,--and that rises east of the mathematical
axis of the Rocky Mountains. The Yo-Semite valley is one of the cradles through which the short
Sierra-draining rivers reach the ocean; its threading stream is the Merced; and if on any good
United-States Survey-map you will please to follow that river back to the mountains, when your
finger-nail touches the Sierra it will be (or would, were the maps somewhat correcter) in the
Great Yo-Semite. You will then see that our course led us across three streams, after leaving
the San Joaquin at Stockton en route for Mariposa,--the Stanislaus, the Tuolomne, and the Main
Merced. The distance from Stockton to Mariposa is about one hundred miles, a small part of
the way between fenced ranches, a much greater part on wide, open, rolling plains, somewhat
like those of Nebraska, embraced between the two great ranges of the State. Here and there
you find an isolated herdsman or a small settlement dropped down in this not unfruitful waste,
and thrice you come to a hybrid town, with a Spanish plaza, and Yankee notions sold around
it. We went the distance leisurely, consuming four days to Mariposa, for we stopped here and
there to sketch, "peep, and botanize"; besides, we were dragging with us a Jersey wagon, bought
second-hand in Stockton, in which we carried our heavier outfit till we should get our extra
pack-beasts at Mariposa, and to which we had harnessed for their first time an implacable white
mule with an incapable white horse, to neither of which each other's society or their own new
trade was congenial.

I shall not linger here as we did there. To an ornithologist the whole road is interesting,--especially
to one making a specialty of owls. The only game within easy reach is the dove and the California
ground-squirrel,--a big fellow, much like our Northeastern gray, barring the former's subterranean
habits. On the plains threaded by the road the pasture is good, save in the extremest drought
of summer, when the great herds which usually feed at large on and between the river-bottoms
are driven to the rich green grass in the high valleys of the Sierra,--or ought to be: many
cattle died along the San Joaquin last summer for want of this care. Occasionally the road
winds through the refreshing shadow of a grove of live-oaks, standing far from any water on
a sandy knoll. But the most magnificent trees of the oak family that I ever beheld were growing
on the banks of the Tuolomne River, where we forded it at Roberts's Ferry. They were not merely
in dimension superior to the finest white-oaks of the East, but surpassed in beauty every tradition
of their genus. Their vast gnarled branches followed as exquisite curves as belong to any elm
on a New-England meadow, and wept at the extremities like those of that else matchless tree,--possessing,
moreover, a sumptuous affluence of leafage, an arboreal embonpoint, unknown to their graceful
sister of our lowlands. Be sure that we lingered long among their shadows with book and pencil,
and look for a desirable acquaintance with new Dryads when they grow into the life of color
from our artists' hands.

At Princeton, a thriving suburb of Mariposa, we completed our cavalcade of pack-animals, transferred
our wagon-load to their backs, (the average mule-pack weighs from two hundred and fifty to
three hundred pounds,) roped it there in the most approved muletero-fashion, and started into
the wilderness.

Let us call the roll. Beside Bierstadt and the two other gentlemen who with myself had formed
the original overland-party, we numbered two young artists of great merit now sojourning for
a short time in California, Williams, an old Roman, and Perry, an ancient Düsseldorf friend,--also
a highly scientific metallurgist and physicist generally, Dr. John Hewston of San Francisco.

To serve the party we secured a man and a boy. Regarding the former, perhaps the more truthful
assertion would be that he secured us; for, as will shortly appear, though we bought his services,
he sold us in return. We picked him up in a San-Francisco employment-office, after looking
all over the city for a respectable groom and camp-cook, and finding that in a scarce-labor
country like California even fifty gold dollars per month, with keep and expenses, were no
sufficient bait for the catch we wanted. He was a meagre, wiry fellow, with sandy hair, serviceable-looking
hands, and no end to self-recommendations; but then it was impossible to ask after him at his
"last place," that having been General Johnston's camp during Buchanan's forcible-feeble occupation
of Utah. As he said he had been a teamster, and knew that soup-meat went into cold water, we
rushed blindly into an engagement with him, marriage-service fashion, and took him for better
or worse. The thing which I think finally "fired our Northern hearts" and clinched the matter
was his assertion of nephewship to the Secession Governor Vance, whose name he bore, combined
with unswerving personal loyalty. Lest by some future D'Israeli this be written down among
the traditional greennesses of learned men, let me say that he was our pis-aller,--we finding
ourselves within two hours of the Stockton boat, with nobody to help pack our mules or care
for them and the horses.

The boy we obtained near Mariposa. He was an independent squire to the man of whom we got the
extra animals, and accompanied them as a sort of trustee and prochein amy to an orphan family
of mules. At fifteen years and in jackets, he was one of the keenest speculators in fire-arms
I ever saw; could swap horses or play poker with anybody; and, take him for all in all, in
the Eastern States, at least, I shall never look upon his like again.

Thus manned, and leading, turn-about, four or five pack-beasts by as many tow-lines, we struck
up into the well-wooded Sierra foot-hills, commencing our climb at the very outset from Mariposa.
The whole distance to the Valley was fifty miles. For twelve of these we pursued a road in
some degree practicable to carts, and leading to one of those inevitable steam saw-mills with
which a Yankee always cuts his first swath into the tall grass of Barbarism. Passing the saw-mill
in the very act of astonishing the wilderness with a dinner-whistle, we struck a trail and
fell into single file. Thenceforward our way was almost a continuous alternation of descent
and climb over outlying ridges of the Sierra. Our raw-recruited mules, and the elementary condition
of our intellects in the science of professional packing, spun out this portion of our journey
to three days,--though allowance is to be made for the fact of our stopping at noon of the
second day and not resuming our trail till the morning of the third. This interim we spent
in visiting the Big Trees, which are situated four or five miles off the Yo-Semite track.

"Clark's," where tourists stop for this purpose, is just half-way between Mariposa and the
great Valley. "Clark" himself is one of the best-informed men, one of the very best guides,
I ever met in the Californian or any other wilderness. He is a fine-looking, stalwart old grizzly-hunter
and miner of the '49 days, wears a noble full beard hued like his favorite game, but no head-covering
of any kind since he recovered from a fever which left his head intolerant of even a slouch.
He lives among folk, near Mariposa, in the winter, and in summer occupies a hermitage built
by himself in one of the loveliest lofty valleys of the Sierra. Here he gives travellers a
surprise by the nicest poached eggs and rashers of bacon, home-made bread and wild-strawberry
sweetmeats, which they will find in the State.

Before reaching Clark's we had been astonished at the dimensions of the ordinary pines and
firs, our trail for miles at a time running through forests where trees one hundred and fifty
feet high were very common and trees of two hundred feet by no means rare, while some of the
very largest must have considerably surpassed the latter measurement.

But these were in their turn dwarfed by the Big Trees proper, as thoroughly as themselves would
have dwarfed a common Green-Mountain forest. I find no one on this side the continent who believes
the literal truth which travellers tell about these marvellous giants. People sometimes think
they do, but that is only because they fail to realize the proposition. They have no concrete
idea of how the asserted proportions look. Tell a carpenter, or any other man at home with
the look of dimensions, what you have seen in the Mariposa-County groves, and his eye grows
incredulous in a moment. I freely confess, that, though I always thought I had believed travellers
in their recitals on this subject, when I saw the trees I found I had bargained to credit no
such story as that, and for a moment felt half-reproachful towards the friends who had cheated
me of my faith under a misapprehension.

Take the dry statistics of the matter. Out of one hundred and thirty-two trees which have been
measured, not one underruns twenty-eight feet in circumference; five range between thirty-two
and thirty-six feet; fifty-eight between forty and fifty feet; thirty-four between fifty and
sixty; fourteen between sixty and seventy; thirteen between seventy and eighty; two between
eighty and ninety; two between ninety and one hundred; two are just one hundred; and one is
one hundred and two. This last, before the storms truncated it, had a height of four hundred
feet. I found a rough ladder laid against its trunk,--for it is prostrate,--and climbed upon
its side by that and steps cut in the bark. I mounted the swell of the trunk to the butt and
there made the measurement which ascertained its diameter as thirty-four feet,--its circumference
one hundred and two feet plus a fraction. Of course the thickness of its bark is various, but
I cut off some of it to a foot in depth and there was evidently plenty more below that.

To make some rough attempt at a conception of what these figures amount to, suppose the tree
fallen at the gable of an ordinary two-story house. You propose to cross by a plank laid from
your roof to the upper side of the tree. That plank would perceptibly slope up from your roof-peak.
Through another tree, lying prostrate also, and hollow from end to end, our whole cavalcade
charged at the full trot for a distance of one hundred and fifty feet. The entire length of
this tree before truncation had been about three hundred and fifty feet. In the hollow bases
of trees still standing we easily sheltered ourselves and horses. We tried throwing to the
top of some of them with ludicrous unsuccess, and finally came to the monarch of them all,
a glorious monster not included in the above table of dimensions, as most of those measured
are still living, and all have the bark upon them still, while the tree is to some extent barked
and charred. When it stood erect in its live wrappings, it measured forty feet in diameter,--over
one hundred and twenty in circumference! Estimates, grounded on the well-known principle of
yearly cortical increase, indisputably throw back the birth of these largest giants as far
as 1200 B. C. Thus their tender saplings were running up just as the gates of Troy were tumbling
down, and some of them had fulfilled the lifetime of the late Hartford Charter-Oak when Solomon
called his master-masons to refreshment from the building of the Temple. We cannot realize
time-images as we can those of space by a reference to dimensions within experience, so that
the age of these marvellous trees still remains to me an incomprehensible fact, though with
my mind's eye I continue to see how mountain-massy they look, and how dwarfed is the man who
leans against them. We lingered among them half a day, the artists making color-studies of
the most picturesque, the rest of us izing away at something scientific,--Botany, Entomology,
or Statistics. In Geology and Mineralogy there is nothing to do here or in the Valley,--the
formation all being typical Sierra-Nevada granite, with no specimens to keep or problems to
solve. Of course our artists neither made nor expected to make anything like a realizing picture
of the groves. The marvellous of size does not go into gilt frames. You paint a Big Tree, and
it only looks like a common tree in a cramped coffin. To be sure, you can put a live figure
against the butt for comparison; but, unless you take a canvas of the size of Haydon's, your
picture is quite as likely to resemble Homunculus against an average timber-tree as a large
man against Sequoia gigantea. What our artists did do was to get a capital transcript of the
Big Trees' color,--a beautifully bright cinnamon-brown, which gives peculiar gayety to the
forest, "making sunshine in the shady place"; also, their typical figure, which is a very lofty,
straight, and branchless trunk, crowned almost at the summit by a mass of colossal gnarled
boughs, slender plumy fronds, delicate thin leaves, and smooth cones scarce larger than a plover's
egg. Perhaps the best idea of their figure may be obtained by fancying an Italian stone-pine
grown out of recollection.

Between all the ridges we had hitherto crossed, silvery streams leaped down intensely cold
through the granite chasms,--all of them fed from the snow-peaks, and charmingly picturesque,--most
of them good trout-brooks, had we possessed time to try a throw; and now, on leaving Clark's,
we crossed the largest of these, a fork of the Merced which flows through his valley. For twelve
miles farther a series of tremendous climbs tasked us and our beasts to the utmost, but brought
us quite apropos at dinner-time to a lovely green meadow walled in on one side by near snow-peaks.
A small brook running through it speedily furnished us with frogs enough for an entrée. Between
two and three in the afternoon we set out upon the last stage of our pilgrimage. We were now
nearly on a plane with the top of the mighty precipices which wall the Yo-Semite Valley, and
for two hours longer found the trail easy, save where it crossed the bogs of summit-level springs.

Immediately after leaving the meadow where we dined we plunged again into the thick forest,
where every now and then some splendid grouse or the beautiful plume-crowned California quail
went whirring away from before our horses. Here and there a broad grizzly "sign" intersected
our trail. The tall purple deer-weed, a magnificent scarlet flower of name unknown to me, and
another blossom like the laburnum, endlessly varied in its shades of roseate, blue, or the
compromised tints, made the hill-sides gorgeous beyond human gardening. All these were scentless;
but one other flower, much rarer, made fragrance enough for all. This was the "Lady Washington,"
and much resembled a snowy day-lily with an odor of tuberoses. Our dense leafy surrounding
hid from us the fact of our approach to the Valley's tremendous battlement, till our trail
turned at a sharp angle and we stood on "Inspiration Point."

That name had appeared pedantic, but we found it only the spontaneous expression of our own
feelings on the spot. We did not so much seem to be seeing from that crag of vision a new scene
on the old familiar globe as a new heaven and a new earth into which the creative spirit had
just been breathed. I hesitate now, as I did then, at the attempt to give my vision utterance.
Never were words so beggared for an abridged translation of any Scripture of Nature.

We stood on the verge of a precipice more than three thousand feet in height,--a sheer granite
wall, whose terrible perpendicular distance baffled all visual computation. Its foot was hidden
among hazy green spiculæ--they might be tender spears of grass catching the slant sun on upheld
aprons of cobweb, or giant pines whose tops that sun first gilt before he made gold of all
the Valley.

There faced us another wall like our own. How far off it might be we could only guess. When
Nature's lightning hits a man fair and square, it splits his yardstick. On recovering from
this stroke, mathematicians have ascertained the width of the Valley to vary between half a
mile and five miles. Where we stood the width is about two.

I said a wall like our own; but as yet we could not know that certainly, for of our own we
saw nothing. Our eyes seemed spell-bound to the tremendous precipice which stood smiling, not
frowning at us, in all the serene radiance of a snow-white granite Boodh,--broadly burning,
rather than glistening, in the white-hot splendors of the setting sun. From that sun, clear
back to the first avant-courier trace of purple twilight flushing the eastern sky-rim--yes,
as if it were the very butment of the eternally blue Californian heaven--ran that wall, always
sheer as the plummet, without a visible break through which squirrel might climb or sparrow
fly,--so broad that it was just faint-lined like the paper on which I write by the loftiest
waterfall in the world,--so lofty that its very breadth could not dwarf it, while the mighty
pines and Douglas firs which grew all along its edge seemed like mere cilia on the granite
lid of the Great Valley's upgazing eye. In the first astonishment of the view, we took the
whole battlement at a sweep, and seemed to see an unbroken sky-line; but as ecstasy gave way
to examination, we discovered how greatly some portions of the precipice surpassed our immediate
vis-à-vis in height.

First, a little east of our off-look, there projected boldly into the Valley from the dominant
line of the base a square stupendous tower that might have been hewn by the diamond adzes of
the Genii for a second Babel-experiment, in expectance of the wrath of Allah. Here and there
the tools had left a faint scratch, only deep as the width of Broadway and a bagatelle of five
hundred feet in length; but that detracted no more from the unblemished four-square contour
of the entire mass than a pin-mark from the symmetry of a door-post. A city might have been
built on its grand flat top. And, oh! the gorgeous masses of light and shadow which the falling
sun cast on it,--the shadows like great waves, the lights like their spumy tops and flying
mist,--thrown up from the heaving breast of a golden sea! In California at this season the
dome of heaven is cloudless; but I still dream of what must be done for the bringing-out of
Tu-toch-anula's coronation-day majesties by the broken winter sky of fleece and fire. The height
of his precipice is nearly four thousand feet perpendicular; his name is supposed to be that
of the Valley's tutelar deity. He also rejoices in a Spanish alias,--some Mission Indian having
attempted to translate by "El Capitan" the idea of divine authority implied in Tu-toch-anula.

Far up the Valley to the eastward there rose far above the rest of the sky-line, and nearly
five thousand feet above the Valley, a hemisphere of granite, capping the sheer wall, without
an apparent tree or shrub to hide its vast proportions. This we immediately recognized as the
famous To-coy-æ, better known through Watkins's photographs as the Great North Dome. I am ignorant
of the meaning of the former name, but the latter is certainly appropriate. Between Tu-toch-anula
and the Dome, the wall rose here and there into great pinnacles and towers, but its sky-line
is far more regular than that of the southern side, where we were standing.

We drew close to the edge of the precipice and looked along over our own wall up the Valley.
Its contour was a rough curve from our stand-point to a station opposite the North Dome, where
the Valley dwindles to its least width, so that all the intermediate crests and pinnacles which
topped the perpendicular wall stood within our vision like the teeth of a saw, clear and sharp-cut
against the blue sky. There is the same plumb-line uprightness in these mighty precipices as
in those of the opposite side; but their front is much more broken by bold promontories, and
their tabular tops, instead of lying horizontal, slope up at an angle of forty-five degrees
or more from the spot where we were standing, and make a succession of oblique prism-sections
whose upper edges are between three and four thousand feet in height. But the glory of this
southern wall comes at the termination of our view opposite the North Dome. Here the precipice
rises to the height of nearly one sheer mile with a parabolic sky-line, and its posterior surface
is as elegantly rounded as an acorn-cup. From this contour results a naked semi-cone of polished
granite, whose face would cover one of our smaller Eastern counties, though its exquisite proportions
make it seem a thing to hold in the hollow of the hand. A small pine-covered glacis of detritus
lies at its foot, but every yard above that is bare of all life save the palæozoic memories
which have wrinkled the granite Colossus from the earliest seethings of the fire-time. I never
could call a Yo-Semite crag inorganic, as I used to speak of everything not strictly animal
or vegetal. In the presence of the Great South Dome that utterance became blasphemous. Not
living was it? Who knew but the débris at its foot was merely the cast-off sweat and exuviæ
of a stone life's great work-day? Who knew but the vital changes which were going on within
its gritty cellular tissue were only imperceptible to us because silent and vastly secular?
What was he who stood up before Tis-sa-ack and said, "Thou art dead rock!" save a momentary
sojourner in the bosom of a cyclic period whose clock his race had never yet lived long enough
to hear strike? What, too, if Tis-sa-ack himself were but one of the atoms in a grand organism
where we could see only by monads at a time,--if he and the sun and the sea were but cells
or organs of some one small being in the fenceless vivarium of the Universe? Let not the ephemeron
that lights on a baby's hand generalize too rashly upon the non-growing of organisms! As we
thought on these things, we bared our heads to the barer forehead of Tis-sa-ack.

I have spoken of the Great South Dome in the masculine gender, but the native tradition makes
it feminine. Nowhere is there a more beautiful Indian legend than that of Tis-sa-ack. I will
condense it into a few short sentences from the long report of an old Yo-Semite brave. Tis-sa-ack
was the tutelar goddess of the Valley, as Tu-toch-anula was its fostering god,--the former
a radiant maiden, the latter an ever-young immortal,--

    "amorous as the month of May."

Becoming desperately fascinated with his fair colleague, Tu-toch-anula spent in her arms all
the divine long days of the California summer, kissing, dallying, and lingering, until the
Valley-tribes began to starve for lack of the crops which his supervision should have ripened,
and a deputation of venerable men came from the dying people to prostrate themselves at the
foot of Tis-sa-ack. Full of anguish at her nation's woes, she rose from her lover's arms, and
cried for succor to the Great Spirit. Then, with a terrible noise of thunder, the mighty cone
split from heaven to earth,--its frontal half falling down to dam the snow-waters back into
a lake, whence to this day the beautiful Valley-stream takes one of its loveliest branches,--its
other segment remaining erect till this present, to be the Great South Dome under the in-memoriam
title of Tis-sa-ack. But the divine maiden who died to save her people appeared on earth no
more, and in his agony Tu-toch-anula carved her image on the face of the mile-high wall, as
he had carved his own on the surface of El Capitan,--where a lively faith and good glasses
may make out the effigies unto this day.

Sometimes these Indian traditions, being translated according to the doctrine of correspondences,
are of great use to the scientific man,--in the present instance, as embalming with sweet spices
a geological fact, and the reason of a water-course which else might become obscured by time.
You may lose a rough fact because everybody is handling it and passing it around with the sense
of a liberty to present it next in his own way; but a fact with its facets cut--otherwise a
poem--is unchangeable, imperditable. Seeing it has been manufactured once, nobody tries to
make it over again. The fact is regarded subject to liberal translation; poems circulate virgin
and verbatim. In some future article I may recur to this topic with reference to the Columbia
River, and the capital light afforded to delvers in its wondrous trap-rock by the lantern of
Indian legend.

Let us leave the walls of the Valley to speak of the Valley itself, as seen from this great
altitude. There lies a sweep of emerald grass turned to chrysoprase by the slant-beamed sun,--chrysoprase
beautiful enough to have been the tenth foundation-stone of John's apocalyptic heaven. Broad
and fair just beneath us, it narrows to a little strait of green between the butments that
uplift the giant domes. Far to the westward, widening more and more, it opens into the bosom
of great mountain-ranges,--into a field of perfect light, misty by its own excess,--into an
unspeakable suffusion of glory created from the phoenix-pile of the dying sun. Here it lies
almost as treeless as some rich old clover-mead; yonder, its luxuriant smooth grasses give
way to a dense wood of cedars, oaks, and pines. Not a living creature, either man or beast,
breaks the visible silence of this inmost paradise; but for ourselves, standing at the precipice,
petrified, as it were, rock on rock, the great world might well be running back in stone-and-grassy
dreams to the hour when God had given him as yet but two daughters, the crag and the clover.
We were breaking into the sacred closet of Nature's self-examination. What if, on considering
herself, she should of a sudden, and us-ward unawares, determine to begin the throes of a new
cycle,--spout up remorseful lavas from her long-hardened conscience, and hurl us all skyward
in a hot concrete with her unbosomed sins? Earth below was as motionless as the ancient heavens
above, save for the shining serpent of the Merced, which silently to our ears threaded the
middle of the grass, and twinkled his burnished back in the sunset wherever for a space he
gilded out of the shadow of woods.

To behold this Promised Land proved quite a different thing from possessing it. Only the silleros
of the Andes, our mules, horses, and selves, can understand how much like a nightmare of endless
roof-walking was the descent down the face of the precipice. A painful and most circuitous
dug-way, where our animals had constantly to stop, lest their impetus should tumble them headlong,
all the way past steeps where the mere thought of a side-fall was terror, brought us in the
twilight to a green meadow, ringed by woods, on the banks of the Merced.

Here we pitched our first Yo-Semite camp,--calling it "Camp Rosalie," after a dear absent friend
of mine and Bierstadt's. Removing our packs and saddles, we dismissed their weary bearers to
the deep green meadow, with no farther qualification to their license than might be found in
ropes seventy feet long fastened to deep-driven pickets. We soon got together dead wood and
pitchy boughs enough to kindle a roaring fire,--made a kitchen-table by wedging logs between
the trunks of a three-forked tree, and thatching these with smaller sticks,--selected a cedar-canopied
piece of flat sward near the fire for our bed-room, and as high up as we could reach despoiled
our fragrant baldacchini for the mattresses. I need not praise to any woodsman the quality
of a sleep on evergreen-strewings.

During our whole stay in the Valley, most of us made it our practice to rise with the dawn,
and, immediately after a bath in the ice-cold Merced, take a breakfast which might sometimes
fail in the game-department, but was an invariable success, considered as slapjacks and coffee.
Then the loyal nephew of the Secesh governor and the testamentary guardian of the orphan mules
brought our horses up from picket; then the artists with their camp-stools and color-boxes,
the sages with their goggles, nets, botany-boxes, and bug-holders, the gentlemen of elegant
leisure with their naked eyes and a fish-rod or a gun, all rode away whither they listed, firing
back Parthian shots of injunction about the dumpling in the grouse-fricassee.

Sitting in their divine workshop, by a little after sunrise our artists began labor in that
only method which can ever make a true painter or a living landscape, color-studies on the
spot; and though I am not here to speak of their results, I will assert that during their seven
weeks' camp in the Valley they learned more and gained greater material for future triumphs
than they had gotten in all their lives before at the feet of the greatest masters. Meanwhile
the other two vaguely divided orders of gentlemen and sages were sight-seeing, whipping the
covert or the pool with various success for our next day's dinner, or hunting specimens of
all kinds,--Agassizing, so to speak.

I cannot praise the Merced to that vulgar, yet extensive, class of sportsmen with whom fishing
means nothing but catching fish,--to that select minority of illuminati who go trouting for
intellectual culture, because they cannot hear Booth or a Sonata of Beethoven's,--who write
rhapsodies of much fire and many pages on the divine superiority of the curve of an hyperbola
over that of a parabola in the cast of a fly,--who call three little troutlings "a splendid
day's sport, me boy!" because those rash and ill-advised infants have been deceived by a feather-bug
which never would have been of any use to them, instead of a real worm which would. We, who
can make prettier curves and deceive larger game in a dancing-party at home, did not go to
the Yo-Semite for that kind of sport. When I found that the best bait or fly caught only half
a dozen trout in an afternoon,--and those the dull, black, California kind, with lined sides,
but no spots,--I gave over bothering the unambitious burghers of the flood with invitations
to a rise in life, and took to the meadows with a butterfly-net.

My experience teaches that no sage (or gentleman) should chase the butterfly on horseback.
You are liable to put your net over your horse's head instead of the butterfly. The butterfly
keeps rather ahead of the horse. You may throw your horse when you mean to throw the net. The
idea is a romantic one; it carries you back to the days of chivalry, when court-butterflies
were said to have been netted from the saddle,--but it carries you nowhere else in particular,
unless perhaps into a small branch of the Merced, where you don't want to go. Then, too, if
you slip down and leave your horse standing while you steal on a giant Papilio which is sucking
the deer-weed in such a sweet spot for a cast, your horse (perhaps he has heard of the French
general who said, "Asses and savans to the centre!") may discover that he also is a sage, and
retire to botanize while you are butterflying,--a contingency which entails your wading the
Merced after him five several times, and finally going back to camp in wet disgust to procure
another horse and a lariat. An experience faintly hinted at in the above suggestions soon convinced
me that the great arm of the service in butterfly-warfare is infantry. After I had turned myself
into a modest Retiarius, I had no end to success. Mariposa County is rightly named. The honey
of its groves and meadows is sucked by some of the largest, the most magnificent, and most
widely varied butterflies in the world.

At noon those of us who came back to camp had a substantial dinner out of our abundant stores,
reinforced occasionally with grouse, quail, or pigeons, contributed by the sportsmen. The artists
mostly dined à la fourchette, in their workshop,--something in a pail being carried out to
them at noon by our Infant Phenomenon. He was a skeleton of thinness, and an incredibly gaunt
mustang was the one which invariably carried the lunch; so we used to call the boy, when we
saw him coming, "Death on the Pail-Horse." At evening, when the artists returned, half an hour
was passed in a "private view" of their day's studies; then came another dinner, called a supper;
then the tea-kettle was emptied into a pan, and brush-washing with talk and pipes led the rest
of the genial way to bed-time.

In his charming "Peculiar," Epes Sargent has given us an episode called the "Story of Estelle."
It is the greatest of compliments to him that I could get thoroughly interested in her lover,
when he bore the name of one of the most audacious and picaresque mortals I ever knew,--our
hired man, who sold us--our----But hear my episode: it is

THE STORY OF VANCE.

Vance. The cognomen of the loyal nephew with the Secesh uncle. I will be brief. Our stores
began to fail. One morning we equipped Vance with a horse, a pack-mule to lead behind him,
a list of purchases, and eighty golden dollars, bidding him good-speed on the trail to Mariposa.
He was to return laden with all the modern equivalents for corn, wine, and oil, on the fifth
or sixth day from his departure. Seven days glided by, and the material for more slapjacks
with them. We grew perilously nigh our bag-bottoms.

One morning I determined to save the party from starvation, and with a fresh supply of the
currency set out for Mariposa. At Clark's I learned that our man had camped there about noon
on the day he left us, turned his horse and mule loose, instead of picketing them, and spent
the rest of the sunlight in a siesta. When he arose, his animals were undiscoverable. He accordingly
borrowed Clark's only horse to go in search of them, and the generous hermit had not seen him
since.

Carrying these pleasant bits of intelligence, I resumed my way toward the settlements. Coming
by the steam saw-mill, I recognized Vance's steed grazing by the way-side, threw my lariat
over his head, and led him in triumph to Mariposa. There I arrived at eight in the evening
of the day I left the Valley,--having performed fifty miles of the hardest mountain-trail that
was ever travelled in a little less than twelve hours, making allowance for our halt and noon-feed
at Clark's. If ever a California horse was tried, it was mine on that occasion; and he came
into Mariposa on the full gallop, scarcely wet, and not galled or jaded in the least.

Here I found our mule, whose obstinate memory had carried him home to his old stable,--also
the remaining events in Vance's brief, but brilliant career. That ornament of the Utah and
Yo-Semite expeditions had entered Mariposa on Clark's horse,--lost our eighty golden dollars
at a single session of bluff,--departed gayly for Coulterville, where he sold Clark's horse
at auction for forty dollars, including saddle and bridle, and immediately at another game
of bluff lost the entire purchase-money to the happy buyer, (Clark got his horse again on proving
title,)--and finally vanished for parts unknown, with nothing in his pocket but buttons, or
in his memory but villanies. Nowhere out of California or Old Spain can there exist such a
modern survivor of the days of Gil Blas!

Too happy in the recovery of Clark's and our own animals to waste time in hue-and-cry, I loaded
my two reclaimed pack-beasts with all that our commissariat needed,--nooned at Clark's, on
my way back, the third day after leaving the Valley for Mariposa, and that same night was among
my rejoicing comrades at the head of the Great Yo-Semite. That afternoon they had come to the
bottom of the flour-bag, after living for three days on unleavened slapjacks without either
butter or sirup. I have seen people who professed to relish the Jewish Passover-bread; but,
after such an experience as our party's, I venture to say they would have regarded it worthy
of a place among the other abolished types of the Mosaic dispensation. As for me and the mule,
we felt our hearts swell within us as if we had come to raise the siege of Leyden. In that
same enthusiasm shared our artists, savans, and gentlemen, embracing the shaggy neck of the
mule as he had been a brother what time they realized that his panniers were full. Can any
one wonder at my early words, "A slapjack may be the last plank between the woodsman and starvation"?

Just before I started after supplies our party moved its camp to a position five miles up the
Valley beyond Camp Rosalie, in a beautiful grove of oaks and cedars, close upon the most sinuous
part of the Merced margin, with rich pasture for our animals immediately across the stream,
and the loftiest cataract in the world roaring over the bleak precipice opposite. This is the
Yo-Semite Fall proper, or, in the Indian, "Cho-looke." By the most recent geological surveys
this fall is credited with the astounding height of twenty-eight hundred feet. At an early
period the entire mass of water must have plunged that distance without break. At this day
a single ledge of slant projection changes the headlong flood from cataract to rapids for about
four hundred feet; but the unbroken upper fall is fifteen hundred feet, and the lower thirteen
hundred. In the spring and early summer no more magnificent sight can be imagined than the
tourist obtains from a stand-point right in the midst of the spray, driven, as by a wind blowing
thirty miles an hour, from the thundering basin of the lower fall. At all seasons Cho-looke
is the grandest mountain-waterfall in the known world.

While I am speaking of waterfalls, let me not omit "Po-ho-nó," or "The Bridal Veil," which
was passed on the southern side in our way to the second and about a mile above the first camp.
As Tis-sa-ack was a good, so is Po-ho-nó an evil spirit of the Indian mythology. This tradition
is scientifically accounted for in the fact that many Indians have been carried over the fall
by the tremendous current both of wind and water forever rushing down a cañon through which
the stream breaks from its feeding-lake twelve or fifteen miles before it falls. The savage
lowers his voice to a whisper and crouches trembling past Po-ho-nó; while the very utterance
of the name is so dreaded by him that the discoverers of the Valley obtained it with great
difficulty. This fall drops on a heap of giant boulders in one unbroken sheet of a thousand
feet perpendicular, thus being the next in height among all the Valley-cataracts to the Yo-Semite
itself, and having a width of fifty feet. Its name of "The Bridal Veil" is one of the few successes
in fantastic nomenclature; for, to one viewing it in profile, its snowy sheet, broken into
the filmy silver lace of spray and falling quite free of the brow of the precipice, might well
seem the veil worn by the earth at her granite wedding,--no commemorator of any fifty-years'
bagatelle like the golden one, but crowning the one-millionth anniversary of her nuptials.

On either side of Po-ho-nó the sky-line of the precipice is magnificently varied. The fall
itself cuts a deep gorge into the crown of the battlement. On the southwest border of the fall
stands a nobly bold, but nameless rock, three thousand feet in height. Near by is Sentinel
Rock, a solitary truncate pinnacle, towering to thirty-three hundred feet. A little farther
are "Eleachas," or "The Three Brothers," flush with the front-surface of the precipice, but
their upper posterior bounding-planes tilted in three tiers, which reach a height of thirty-four
hundred and fifty feet.

One of the loveliest places in the Valley is the shore of Lake Ah-wi-yah,--a crystal pond of
several acres in extent, fed by the north fork of the Valley-stream, and lying right at the
mouth of the narrow strait between the North and South Domes. By this tranquil water we pitched
our third camp, and when the rising sun began to shine through the mighty cleft before us,
the play of color and chiaroscuro on its rugged walls was something for which an artist apt
to oversleep himself might well have sat up all the night. No such precaution was needed by
ourselves. Painters, sages, and gentlemen at large, all turned out by dawn; for the studies
were grander, the grouse and quail plentier, and the butterflies more gorgeous than we found
in any other portion of the Valley. After passing the great cleft eastward, I found the river
more enchanting at every step. I was obliged to penetrate in this direction entirely on foot,--clambering
between squared blocks of granite dislodged from the wall beneath the North Dome, any one of
which might have been excavated into a commodious church, and discovering, for the pains cost
by a reconnoissance of five miles, some of the loveliest shady stretches of singing water and
some of the finest minor waterfalls in our American scenery.

Our last camp was pitched among the crags and forests behind the South Dome,--where the Middle
Fork descends through two successive waterfalls, which, in apparent breadth and volume, far
surpass Cho-looke, while the loftiest is nearly as high as Po-ho-nó. About three miles west
of the Domes, the south wall of the Valley is interrupted by a deep cañon leading in a nearly
southeast direction. Through this cañon comes the Middle Fork, and along its banks lies our
course to the great "Pi-wi-ack" (senselessly Englished as "Vernal") and the Nevada Falls. For
three miles from our camp opposite the Yo-Semite Fall the cañon is threaded by a trail practicable
for horses. At its termination we dismounted, sent back our animals, and, strapping their loads
upon our own shoulders, struck nearly eastward by a path only less rugged than the trackless
crags around us. In some places we were compelled to squeeze sideways through a narrow crevice
in the rocks, at imminent danger to our burden of blankets and camp-kettles; in others we became
quadrupedal, scrambling up acclivities with which the bald main precipice had made but slight
compromise. But for our light marching order,--our only dress being knee-boots, hunting-shirt,
and trowsers,--it would have been next to impossible to reach our goal at all.

But none of us regretted pouring sweat or strained sinews, when, at the end of our last terrible
climb, we stood upon the oozy sod which is brightened into eternal emerald by the spray of
Pi-wi-ack. Far below our slippery standing steeply sloped the walls of the ragged chasm down
which the snowy river charges roaring after its first headlong plunge; an eternal rainbow flung
its shimmering arch across the mighty caldron at the base of the fall; and straight before
us in one unbroken leap came down Pi-wi-ack from a granite shelf nearly four hundred feet in
height and sixty feet in perfectly horizontal width. Some enterprising speculator, who has
since ceased to take the original seventy-five cents' toll, a few years ago built a substantial
set of rude ladders against the perpendicular wall over which Pi-wi-ack rushes. We found it
still standing, and climbed the dizzy height in a shower of spray, so close to the edge of
the fall that we could almost wet our hands in its rim. Once at the top, we found that Nature
had been as accommodating to the sight-seer as man himself; for the ledge we landed on was
a perfect breastwork, built from the receding precipices on either side of the cañon to the
very crown of the cataract. The weakest nerves need not have trembled, when once within the
parapet, on the smooth, flat rampart, and looking down into the tremendous boiling chasm whence
we had just climbed.

Above Pi-wi-ack the river runs for a mile at the bottom of a granite cradle, sloping upward
from it on each side at an angle of about forty-five degrees, in great tabular masses slippery
as ice, without a crevice in them for thirty yards at a stretch where even the scraggiest manzanita
may catch hold and grow. This tilted formation, broken here and there by spots of scanty alluvium
and stunted pines, continues upward till it intersects the posterior cone of the South Dome
on one side and a colossal castellated precipice on the other,--creating thus the very typical
landscape of sublime desolation. The shining barrenness of these rocks, and the utter nakedness
of that vast glittering dome which hollows the heavens beyond them, cannot be conveyed by any
metaphor to a reader knowing only the wood-crowned slopes of the Alleghany chain.

Climbing between the stunted pines and giant blocks along the stream's immediate margin,--getting
glimpses here and there of the snowy fretwork of churned water which laced the higher rocks,
and the black whirls which spun in the deep pits of the roaring bed beneath us,--we came at
last to the base of "Yo-wi-ye," or Nevada Fall.

This is the most voluminous, and next to Pi-wi-ack, perhaps, the most beautiful of the Yo-Semite
cataracts. Its beauty is partly owing to the surrounding rugged grandeur which contrasts it,
partly to its great height (eight hundred feet) and surpassing volume, but mainly to its exquisite
and unusual shape. It falls from a precipice the highest portion of whose face is as smoothly
perpendicular as the wall overleapt by Pi-wi-ack; but invisibly beneath its snowy flood a ledge
slants sideways from the cliff about a hundred feet below the crown of the fall, and at an
angle of about thirty degrees from the plumb-line. Over this ledge the water is deflected upon
one side and spread like a half-open fan to the width of nearly two hundred feet.

At the base of Yo-wi-ye we seem standing in a cul-de-sac of Nature's grandest labyrinth. Look
where we will, impregnable battlements hem us in. We gaze at the sky from the bottom of a savage
granite barathrum, whence there is no escape but return through the chinks and over the crags
of an Old-World convulsion. We are at the end of the stupendous series of Yo-Semite effects;
eight hundred feet above us, could we climb there, we should find the silent causes of power.
There lie the broad, still pools that hold the reserved affluence of the snow-peaks; thence
might we see, glittering like diamond lances in the sun, the eternal snow-peaks themselves.
But these would still be as far above us as we stood below Yo-wi-ye on the lowest valley-bottom
whence we came. Even from Inspiration Point, where our trail first struck the battlement, we
could see far beyond the Valley to the rising sun, towering mightily above Tis-sa-ack herself,
the everlasting snow-forehead of Castle Rock, his crown's serrated edge cutting the sky at
the topmost height of the Sierra. We had spoken of reaching him,--of holding converse with
the King of all the Giants. This whole weary way have we toiled since then,--and we know better
now. Have we endured all these pains only to learn still deeper Life's saddest lesson,--"Climb
forever, and there is still an Inaccessible"?

Wetting our faces with the melted treasure of Nature's topmost treasure-house, Yo-wi-ye answers
us ere we turn back from the Yo-Semite's last precipice toward the haunts of men:--

"Ye who cannot go to the Highest, lo, the Highest comes down to you!"

HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS.

BY CHRISTOPHER CROWFIELD.

SHAKSPEARE.

APRIL 23, 1864.

HOW TO USE VICTORY.

The policy of the nation, since the war began, has been eminently the Anglo-Saxon policy. That
is to say, we have not adapted our actions to any preconceived theory, nor to any central idea.
From the President downward, every one has done as well as he could in every single day, doubtful,
and perhaps indifferent, as to what he should do the next day. This is the method dear to the
Anglo-Saxon mind. The English writers acknowledge this; they call it the "practical system,"
and make an especial boast that it is the method of their theology, their philosophy, their
physical science, their manufactures, and their trade. In the language of philosophy, it directs
us "to do the duty that comes next us"; in a figure drawn from the card-table, it bids us "follow
our hand." The only branch of the Keltic race which adopts it expresses it in the warlike direction,
"When you see a head, hit it."

We have no objection to make to this so-called practical system in the present case, if it
only be broadly and generously adopted. If it reduce us to a war of posts, to hand-to-mouth
finance, and to that wretched bureau-administration which thinks the day's work is done when
the day's letters have been opened, docketed, and answered, it becomes, it is true, a very
unpractical system, and soon reduces a great state to be a very little one. But if the men
who direct any country will, in good faith, enlarge their view every day, from their impressions
of yesterday to the new realities of to-day,--if they will rise at once to the new demands
of to-day, and meet those demands under the new light of to-day,--all the better is it, undoubtedly,
if they are not hampered by traditionary theories, if they are even indifferent as to the consistency
of their record, and are, thus, as able as they are willing to work out God's present will
with all their power. For it must be that the present light of noonday will guide us better
at noonday than any prophecies which we could make at midnight or at dawn.

The country, at this moment, demands this broad and generous use of its great present advantages.
In three years of sacrifice we have won extraordinary victories. We have driven back the beach-line
of rebellion so that its territory is now two islands, both together of not half the size of
the continent which it boasted when it began. We have seen such demonstrations of loyalty and
the love of liberty that we dare say that this is to be one free nation, as we never dared
say it before the war began. We are on the edge, as we firmly believe, of yet greater victories,
both in the field and in the conscience of the nation. The especial demand, then, made on our
statesmen, and on that intelligent people which, as it appears, leads the statesmen, instead
of being led by them, is, "How shall we use our victories?" We have no longer the right to
say that the difficult questions will settle themselves. We must not say that Providence will
take care of them. We must not say that we are trying experiments. The time for all this has
gone by. We have won victories. We are going to win more. We must show we know how to use them.

As our armies advance, for instance, very considerable regions of territory come, for the time,
under the military government of the United States. If we painted a map of the country, giving
to the Loyal States each its individual chosen color, and to the Rebel States their favorite
Red or Black, we should find that the latter were surrounded by a strip of that circumambient
and eternal Blue which indicates the love and the strength of the National Government. The
strip is here broad, and there narrow. It is broad in Tennessee, Arkansas, and Louisiana. It
stretches up in a narrow line along the Sea Islands and the Atlantic coast. What do we mean
to do with this strip, while it is in the special charge of the nation? Do we mean to leave
it to the chapter of accidents, as we have done? A few charitable organizations have kept the
Sea Islands along, so that they are a range of flourishing plantations, as they used to be.
A masterly inactivity, on the other hand, leaves the northern counties of Virginia, this summer,
within the very sight of the Capitol, to be the desert and disgrace which they were when they
were the scenes of actual war. A handful of banditti rides through them when it chooses, and
even insults the communications of our largest army. The people of that State are permitted
to point at this desolation, and to say that such are the consequences of Federal victories.
For another instance, take the "Four-Million question." These four million negroes, from whose
position the war has sprung, are now almost all set free, in law. A very large number of them--possibly
a quarter part of them--are free in fact. One hundred and thirty thousand of them are in the
national army. With regard to these men the question is not, "What are you going to do with
them when the war is done?" but, "What will you do with them to-day and to-morrow?" Your duty
is to use victory in the moment of victory. You are not to wait for its last ramification before
you lead in peace and plenty, which ought to follow close in its first footsteps.

To an observing and sensitive nation it seems as if all these questions, and many others like
them, were not yet fully regarded. Yet they are now the questions of the hour, because they
are a part of the great central question, "How will you break down the armed power of the Rebel
States?" To maintain the conquered belt between us and our "wayward sisters" as a land of plenty,
and not as a desert,--to establish on system the blacks whose masters desert them, or who take
refuge within our lines,--and also to maintain in that border-strip a resident peasantry, armed
and loyal,--these are not matters of sentiment, which may be postponed to a more convenient
season, but they are essential to the stiff, steady, and successful prosecution of our campaigns.
It is not, therefore, simply for charity Boards of Education to discuss such subjects. It is
for the Government to determine its policy, and for the people, who make that Government, to
compel it so to determine. The Government may not shake off questions of confiscated lands,
pay of negro troops, superintendence of fugitives, and the like, as if they were the unimportant
details of a halcyon future. Because this is the moment of impending victory, because that
victory should be used on the instant, the Government is bound to attend to such provisions
now. It is said, that, when General McClellan landed below Yorktown, now two years ago, the
Washington Post-Office had made the complete arrangements for resuming the mail-service to
Richmond. Undoubtedly the Post-Office Department was right in such foresight. At the present
moment, it is equally right for the Government to be prepared for the immediate use of the
victories for which, as we write, we are all hoping.

The experiments which we have had to try, in the care and treatment of liberated blacks, have
been tried under very different conditions. When the masters on the Sea Islands escaped from
their slaves, leaving but one white man behind them, in the midst of fifteen thousand negroes,
those negroes were, in general, in their old familiar homes. They had, indeed, trusted themselves
to the tender mercies of the "Yankees" because they would not abandon home. The islands on
which they lived were easily protected, and, thanks to the generous foresight of those who
early had the charge of them, a body of humane and intelligent superintendents soon appeared,
to watch over all their interests. In the District of Columbia, on the other hand, the blacks
whom the war first liberated had themselves fled from their masters. They found themselves
in cities where every condition of life was different from their old home. It was hardly to
be expected that in one of these cases the results should be as cheerful or as favorable as
in the other. Nor was it to be supposed that the policy to be pursued, in two such cases, should
be in outward form the same.

But the country has, on the whole, in the various different conditions of these questions,
had the advantage of great administrative ability. General Butler, General Banks, and General
Saxton are three men who may well be satisfied with their military record, if it shall bear
the test of time as well as their administrative successes in this department bid fair to do.
We can be reconciled, in a measure, to gross failure and want of system in other places, when
we observe the successes which have been wrought out for the blacks, in different ways, under
the policy of these three statesmen. For we believe that in that policy the principles are
to be found by which the Government ought at once to direct all its policy in the use of its
victories. We believe those principles are most adequately stated in General Butler's General
Order No. 46, issued at Fort Monroe on the fifth of December last. For General Banks has had
his hands tied, from the beginning, by the unfortunate exemption from the Emancipation Proclamation
of the first two districts in Louisiana. Considering the difficulties by which he was thus
entangled, we have never seen but he used to the best his opportunities. General Saxton's island-district
has been so small, and in a measure so peculiar, that it may be urged that the result learned
there would not be applicable on the mainland, on a large scale. But General Butler has had
all the negroes of the sea-board of Virginia and North Carolina to look after. He has given
us a census of them,--and we have already official returns of their status. There seems no
reason why what has been done there may not be done anywhere.

In General Butler's department, there were, in the beginning of April, sixty-eight thousand
eight hundred and forty-seven negroes. Of these, eight thousand three hundred and forty-four
were soldiers, who had voluntarily enlisted into the service of the United States. These men
enlisted with no bounty but what the General so well named as the "great boon awarded to each
of them, the result of the war,--Freedom for himself and his race forever." They enlisted,
knowing that at that time the Government promised them but ten dollars a month. In view of
these facts, we consider the proportion of soldiers, nearly one in eight, extraordinary,--though
we are aware that the number includes many who had not lived in those counties, who came into
our lines with the purpose of enlisting. These simple figures involve the first feature of
the true policy in the "Four-Million question." The war offers the negroes this priceless bounty.
Let them fight for it. Let us enlist them, to the last man we can persuade to serve.

"If you do that," says Brazen-Face, "you have left on your hands a horde of starving imbeciles,
women, and orphans, to support, from whom you have cruelly separated their able-bodied men."
No, Brazen-Face, we have no such thing. In the month of March the Government had to supply
rations in the district we have named to only seven thousand eight hundred and fifty persons
who were members of the families of these soldiers,--the cost being about one dollar a month
for each of them. Now the State of Massachusetts, dear Brazen-Face, supplies "State-aid" to
the families of its soldiers; and for this support, in this very city of yours, it pays on
the average five times as much in proportion as the United States has to pay for the families
of these colored soldiers. Nay, you may even take all the persons relieved by Government in
General Butler's district,--the number is sixteen thousand seven hundred and sixteen,--count
them all as the families of soldiers, which not one-half of them are, and the whole support
which they all receive from Government is not half as much as the families of the same number
of soldiers are costing the State of Massachusetts. So much for the expense of this system.
There is no money-bounty, and the "family-aid" is but one-fifth of that we pay in the case
of our own brothers. The figures in General Saxton's district are as gratifying. We have not
the Louisiana statistics at hand. And we have not learned that anybody has attempted any statistics
in the District of Columbia, or on the Mississippi River. But this illustration, in two districts
where the enlistment of colored troops has been pushed to the very edge of its development,
is enough to make out another point in the policy of victory, which is, that the colored soldier
is the cheapest soldier whom we have in our lines, though we pay him, as of course we should
do, full pay.

How is this cheapness of administration gained? The answer is in the second great principle
which belongs to the policy of using our victories. Change the homes of the people as little
as possible. The families of negroes in the Virginia district are put upon separate farms as
far as possible,--on land, and for crops, as nearly as possible, the same as they were used
to. These people are conservative. They are fond of home. They are used to work; and they can
take care of themselves. Every inducement is given them, therefore, to establish themselves.
Farms of eight or ten acres each from abandoned property are allotted them. Where the Government
employs any of them, it employs them only at the same rate as the soldier is paid,--so that,
if the negro can earn more than that, he does so, and is urged, as well as permitted to do
so. He is not bound to the soil, except by merely temporary agreement. What follows is that
he uses the gift of freedom to his own best advantage. "Political freedom," says the philosophical
General, "rightly defined, is liberty to work." The negroes in his command show that they understand
the definition. And this is the reason why, as we have explained, the "family-relief" costs
but one-fifth what it does here in Boston.

"But," says Grunnio, at this point, "how will you protect your ten-acre farms from invidious
neighbors, from wandering guerrillas?" We will advise them, dear grumbler, to protect themselves.
That is one of the responsibilities which freemen have to take as the price of freedom. In
the department of Norfolk, where seventeen thousand blacks are supporting themselves on scattered
farms, we believe not a pig has been stolen nor a fence broken down on their little plantations
by semi-loyal neighbors, who had, perhaps, none too much sympathy, at the first, with their
prosperity. These amiable neighbors were taught, from the first, that the rights of the colored
farmers were just the same as their own, and that they would be very apt to retaliate in kind
for injuries. Of such a system one result is that no guerrilla-warfare has yet been known in
the counties of Virginia where such a peasantry is establishing itself. It is near our posts,
it is true,--not nearer, however, than some of the regions where Mosby has won his laurels.
We believe that this system deserves to be pressed much farther. We can see that the farmers
on such farms may have to be supplied in part with arms for their defence. They may have to
be taught to use them. Without providing depots of supplies for an enemy, however, we believe
there might be a regular system of establishing the negro in his own home, on or near the plantation
where he was born, which would give us from the beginning the advantages of a settled country,
instead of a desert in the regions in the rear of our lines.

These three suggestions are enough to determine a general policy which shall give us, in all
instances, the immediate use of our victories. Let us enlist all the able-bodied men we can
from the negroes. Let us establish the rest as near their old homes as we can,--not in poor-houses
or phalansteries, but on their own farms. Let us appoint for each proper district a small staff
of officers sufficient to see that their rights are respected by their neighbors, and that
they have means to defend themselves against reckless or unorganized aggression. There seems
to be no need of sending them as fugitives to our rear. There seems to be no need of leaving
the country we pass a desert. There seems to be no need of waiting a year or two before we
find for them their places. God has found for them their places. Let them stay where they were
born. We have made them freemen. Let them understand that they must maintain their freedom.

More simply stated, such a policy amounts merely to this: "Treat them as you would treat white
people."

"What would you do with the blacks?" said a Commission of Inquiry to an intelligent jurist
who had made some very brilliant decisions at New Orleans.

"I would not do anything with them," was his very happy and suggestive reply.

He would let them alone. If we could free ourselves of the notion that we must huddle them
together, or that we must carry them to some strange land,--in short, that they have no rights
of home and fireside,--we should find that we had a much smaller problem to deal with. Keep
them where you find them, unless they will go on and fight with you. Whether they go or stay,
let them understand that they are your friends and you are theirs, and that they must defend
themselves, if they expect you to defend them.

The education and the civilization will follow. "The church and the school," as John Adams
says, "belong with the town and the militia." The statistics of General Butler's department
begin to show that a larger proportion of blacks are at school there than of whites. As we
write these words, we receive General Banks's Order No. 38, issued March 22, providing for
a board of education, and a tax upon property to establish schools for black and for white
children. We have no fears that such results will be slow, if the enfranchised peasantry, one
million or four million, have the right to work on their own land, or to accept the highest
wage that offers,--if they find they are not arbitrarily removed from their old homes,--and
if the protection of those homes is, in the first instance, intrusted to themselves.

These are the first-fruits of freedom for them. For us they are the legitimate use of victory.
It only remains that we shall mildly, but firmly, instruct all officers of the Government that
it is time for some policy to be adopted which shall involve such uses of victory. The country
will be encouraged, the moment it sees that the freedmen are finding their proper places in
the new civilization. The country expects its rulers not to wait for chapters of accidents
or for volunteer boards to work out such policy, but themselves to provide the system of administration,
and the intelligent men who shall promptly and skilfully avail themselves of every victory.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. Vols. I. & II.

People of the last century had a very easy time with their Roman history, and any gentleman
could pick up enough of it "in course of his morning's reading" to answer the demands of a
lifetime. Men read and believed. They had no more doubt of the existence of Romulus and Remus
than of the existence of Fairfax and Cromwell. As to the story of those dropped children being
nursed by a she-wolf, had it not been established that wolves did sometimes suckle humanity's
young? and why should it be supposed that no lupine nursery had ever existed at the foot of
the Palatine Hill? After swallowing the wolf-story, everything else was easy; and the history
of the Roman Kings was as gravely received as the history of the Roman Emperors. The Brutus
who upset the Tarquins was as much an historical character as the Brutus who assassinated Cæsar
and killed himself. Tullia had lived and sinned, just like Messallina. The Horatii were of
flesh and blood, like the Triumvirs. So was it with regard to the Empire. The same short work
that was made with Regal Rome and the early Republican period was applied to the Imperial age.
Julius Cæsar was the destroyer of Roman liberty, and Pompeius was the unlucky champion of his
country's constitution. With few exceptions, the Emperors were the greatest moral monsters
that ever had lived and reigned. It is true that two or three critical writers had so handled
historical subjects as to create some doubts as to the exact correctness of the popular view
of Roman history; but those doubts were monopolized by a few scholars, and by no means tended
to shake the faith which even the educated classes had in the vulgar view of the actions of
the mighty conquering race of antiquity.

But all has been changed. For half a century, learned men have been busily employed in pulling
down the edifice of Roman history, until they have unsettled everybody's faith in that history.
No one now pretends, seriously, to believe anything that is told of the Romans farther back
than the time of Pyrrhus. Clouds and darkness rest over the earlier centuries, and defy penetration.
What Sir Thomas Browne says of Egypt is not inapplicable to early Rome. History mumbleth something
to the inquirer, "but what it is he heareth not." Not even the story of Curtius now finds believers.
He must have been a contractor, who made an enormous fortune at the time of the secession of
the plebs, and ruined himself by the operation. So far as relates to early Roman history, want
of faith is very natural; for what documents have we to go upon in making up an opinion concerning
it? None to speak of. But it is strange, at the first thought, that there should be any difficulty
in making up a judgment concerning the history of the last century or two of the Republic,
and of the Imperial period. Of those times much that was then written still survives, and many
of the works that were familiar to the Romans are even more familiar to the moderns. Yet there
is a wide difference of sentiment as to the character of the Roman Revolution, and the objects
and the actions of the eminent men who figured in that Revolution are yet in dispute; and the
contention is almost as fierce, at times, as it was in the days of Pharsalia and Philippi.
There are Pompeians and Cæsarians now, as there were nineteen centuries ago, only that the
pen with them is indeed mightier than the sword. Cæsar's case has been reviewed, and the current
of opinion is now setting strongly in his favor. Instead of being looked upon as a mere vulgar
usurper, who differed from other usurpers only in having a greater stage, and talents proportioned
to that stage, he is held up as the man of his times, and as the only man who could fulfil
the demands of the crisis that existed after the death of Sulla. According to Mr. Merivale,
who is a very moderate Cæsarian, Cæsar was "the true captain and lawgiver and prophet of the
age" in which he lived. When such an assertion can be made by an English gentleman of well-balanced
mind, we may form some idea of the intensity of that Cæsarism which prevails in fiercer minds,
and which is intended to have an effect on contemporary rule. For the controversy which exists
relative to the merits of Romans "dead, and turned to clay," is not merely critical and scholastic,
but is enlivened by its direct bearing upon living men and contending parties. Cæsarism means
Napoleonism. The Bonaparte family is the Julian family of to-day. Napoleon I. stood for the
great Julius, and Napoleon III. is the modern (and very Gallic) Cæsar Augustus, the avenger
of his ill-used uncle, and the crusher of the Junii and the Crassi, and all the rest of the
aristocrats, who overthrew him, and caused his early death. It is not necessary to point out
the utter absurdity of this attempt to justify modern despotism by referring to the action
of men who lived and acted in the greatest of ancient revolutions; and those men who admire
Julius Cæsar, but who are not disposed to see in his conduct a justification of the conduct
of living men, object to the French Imperial view of his career. Mommsen, whose admiration
of Cæsar is as ardent as his knowledge of Roman history is great, speaks with well-deserved
scorn of the efforts that are made to defend contemporary usurpation by misrepresentation of
the history of antiquity. One of his remarks is curious, read in connection with that history
which daily appears in our journals. Writing before our civil war began, he declared, that,
if ever the slaveholding aristocracy of the Southern States of America should bring matters
to such a pass as their counterparts in the Rome of Sulla, Cæsarism would be pronounced legitimate
there also by the spirit of history,--an observation that derived new interest from the report
that General Lee was to be made Dictator of the Confederacy, and Mr. Davis allowed to go into
that retirement which is so much admired and so little sought by all politicians. Mommsen,
after the remark above quoted, proceeds to say, that, whenever Cæsarism "appears under other
social conditions, it is at once a usurpation and a caricature. History, however, will not
consent to curtail the honor due to the true Cæsar, because her decision, in the presence of
false Cæsars, may give occasion to simplicity to play the fool and to villany to play the rogue.
She, too, is a Bible, and if she can as little prevent herself from being misunderstood by
the fool and quoted by the Devil, she ought as little to be prejudiced by either." Strong words,
but very natural as coming from a learned German who finds his own theory turned to account
by the supporters of a house which Germany once helped to overthrow, and which she would gladly
aid in overthrowing again. Perhaps Dr. Mommsen will soon have an opportunity to speak more
at length of French Cæsarism, for the first two volumes of Napoleon III.'s "Life of Julius
Cæsar" are announced as nearly ready for publication, and their appearance cannot fail to be
the signal for a battle royal, as few scholars, we presume, will be content to take historical
law from an Emperor. The modern master of forty legions will not be as fortunate as Hadrian
in finding philosophers disinclined to question his authority in letters; and he may fare even
worse at their hands than he fared at those of Mr. Kinglake. The republic of letters is not
to be mastered by a coup d'état.

The opponents of Cæsarism have not been silent, and it would be neither uninteresting nor unprofitable,
did time permit, to show how well they have disposed of most of the arguments of their foes.
The question is not the old one, whether the party of Cæsar or that of Pompeius was the better
one, for at bottom the two were very much the same, the struggle being for supremacy over the
whole Roman dominion; and it is certain that there would have been no essential change of political
procedure, had the decision at Pharsalia been reversed. On that field Cæsar was the nominal
champion of the liberal faction, and Pompeius was the nominal champion of the optimates. Had
Cæsar lost the day, the plebeian Pompeian house would have furnished an imperial line, instead
of that line proceeding from the patrician Julii. Pompeius would have been as little inclined
to abandon the fruits of his victory to the aristocrats as Cæsar showed himself to set up the
rule of the Forum-populace, to whose support he owed so much. It was to free himself from the
weight of his equals that Pompeius selected the East for the seat of war, when there were so
many strong military reasons why he should have proceeded to the West, to Romanized Spain,
where he had veteran legions that might under his lead have been found the equals of Cæsar's
small, but most efficient army. He wished to get out of the Republican atmosphere, and into
a country where "the one-man power" was the recognized idea of rule. He acted as a politician,
not as a soldier, when he sailed from Brundisium to the East, and the nobility were not blind
to the fact, and were not long in getting their revenge; for it was through their political
influence that Pompeius was forced to deliver battle at Pharsalia, when there were strong military
reasons for refusing to fight. That they were involved in their chief's fall was only in accordance
with the usual course of things, there being nothing to equal the besotted blindness of faction,
as our current history but too clearly proves.

As between Cæsar and Pompeius, therefore, it is natural and just that modern liberals should
sympathize with the former, and contemplate his triumph with pleasure, as he was by far the
abler and better man, and did not stain his success by bloodshed and plunder, things which
the Pompeians had promised themselves on a scale that would have astonished Marius and Sulla,
and which the Triumvirs never thought of equalling. But when we are asked to behold as the
result of the Roman Revolution the deliverance of the provincials, and that as of purpose on
the part of the victor, we are inclined, in return, to ask of the Cæsarians whether they think
mankind are such fools as not to be able to read and to understand the Imperial history. That
Cæsar's success was beneficial to Rome's subjects we do not dispute; but that the change he
effected was of the sweeping character claimed for it, or that Cæsar ever thought of being
the reformer that his admirers declare him to have been, are things yet to be proved. The change
that came from the substitution of the Imperial polity for the Republican was the result of
circumstances, and it was of slow growth. Imperialism was an Octavian, not a Julian creation,
as any reader will be able to understand who goes through the closing chapters of Mr. Merivale's
third volume. The first Cæsar's imperial career was too short, and too full of hard military
work, to admit of much being done by him of a political character; nor would it have been possible
for him, had he been a much younger man, and had he lived for years, to accomplish what was
effected by Augustus. The terrible crisis that followed his death, and which lasted until the
decision of "the world's debate" at Actium gave a master to the Roman world, prepared the way
for the work that was done by his grand-nephew and adopted son. The severe discipline which
the Romans went through between the day of Munda and that of Actium made them more acquiescent
in despotism than they would have been found, if Julius Cæsar's mild sway had been continued
through that interval. It has been said that the Triumvirate converted Cæsar's sword into daggers,
and the expression is by no means too strong, as the world has never witnessed such another
reign of terror as followed from the union of Octavius, Antonius, and Lepidus. If that union
was formed for the purpose of reconciling men to despotic rule, it must be allowed the merit
that belongs to a perfect invention. Without it the Roman Empire might never have had an existence.

Mr. Merivale's work may be considered as forming the text-book of moderate Cæsarism. An Englishman,
he cannot be an advocate of despotism; but he sees that the time had come for a change, and
that under Cæsar's direction the change could be better made than under that of Pompeius or
his party. This is something very different from blind advocacy of Cæsarism; and we can follow
him through his clear and vigorous narrative of the events of the Revolution with general acquiescence
in his views. His first and second volumes, which are immediately under consideration, may
be said to form the history of the career of Cæsar, and to present the best account of that
career which has been published in our language. Introductory matter apart, his book opens
with the appearance of the first Emperor on the political stage, and the second volume closes
at the date of his assassination. His various political actions, his achievements in Gaul and
Britain, his marvellous exploits in Italy, Spain, Macedonia, Greece, and Africa in the Civil
War, and the character of his legislation, are here told and set forth in a manner that comes
very near to perfection. There is a vividness in the narrative, and a bringing-out of individual
portraits, that make the work read like a history of contemporary events. Nor does the author's
just admiration of Cæsar's extraordinary intellect and wonderful deeds cause him to be unjust
to the eminent men on the other side, though as a rule he deals severely with those Romans
whom the world admires, when treating of the effects of their conduct. It has been objected
to his history, that he speaks with freedom of Cicero's conduct on many occasions, but we think
that he has not exceeded the bounds of just criticism when considering the course of the Roman
orator; and in his third volume, when summing up his character, he employs the most generous
and lofty language in speaking of him. An intelligent admirer of the most illustrious victim
of the Triumvirate will consider these words something far better than anything that can be
found in Middleton's "lying legend in honor of St. Tully." It may be observed that admiration
of Cicero and sympathy with the Roman aristocratical party mostly go together; and yet the
Roman aristocracy disliked Cicero, and their writers treated him harshly, while he received
kind treatment from writers on the other side. Livy, whom Augustus himself called the Pompeian,
says of Cicero that "he bore none of his calamities as a man should, except his death"; and
"Lucan denounces his perverse impolicy." Mr. Merivale, in a note, observes that it can hardly
be accidental that Tacitus, in his historical works, never mentions him, and adds, "The most
glowing tribute to Cicero's merits is the well-known passage in Juvenal, and this is written
in the spirit of a Marian, or anti-oligarch." Velleius, who is generally spoken of as a sort
of literary flunky of the Cæsars, warmly panegyrizes Cicero. Had the Pompeians triumphed, Cicero
would not have found Italy the safe place that it was to him under Cæsar's rule. He would have
fared as badly at their hands as he did at those of the Clodian rabble, and Pompeius might
have been to him what Antonius became after Cæsar's death.

The portrait which Mr. Merivale has drawn of Cato does not meet with the approval of those
persons who admire old Roman virtue, of which Cato was the impersonation; but they would find
it difficult to show that he has done that stubborn Stoic any injustice. Cato modelled himself
on his great-grandfather, Cato the Censor, a mean fellow, who sold his old slaves in order
that they might not become a charge upon him; but, as our author remarks, the character of
the Censor had been simple and true to Nature, while that of his descendant was a system of
elaborate, though unconscious affectations. Cato behaved as absurdly as an American would behave
who should attempt to imitate his great-grandfather, the old gentleman having died a loyal
subject of George II. He was an honest man, according to the Roman standard of honesty, which
allowed a great margin for the worst villany, provided it were done for the public good, or
what was supposed to be the public good. Like some politicians of our time, he thought, that,
when he had made it appear that a certain course would be in accordance with ancient precedent,
it should be adopted,--making no allowance for the thousand disturbing causes which the practical
politician knows must be found on any path that may be selected. Of all the men whose conduct
brought about the Civil War, he was the most virtuous, and he had the sagacity to oppose a
resort to arms; though how he succeeded in reconciling his aversion to war with his support
of a policy that led directly to its existence is one of the mysteries of those days. The Pompeians
found him a bore, and, had they been victorious, would have saved him the trouble of killing
himself, by cutting off his head. Cato was one of the very few persons for whom Cæsar felt
a strong dislike; but he would not have harmed him, had he got his own consent to live. From
Cato he had experienced no such insult as he had met with from M. Marcellus, and Marcellus
received permission to return to Rome; but Cato was of an unmalleable nature, and preferred,
to an ignoble silence in Italy, the noble silence of the grave. He died "after the high Roman
fashion." Suicide might be called the natural death of a Roman leader of that age, and nothing
but the violence of enemies could dispute the title with it. Cato, Brutus, Cassius, Antonius,
and others fell by their own hands, or by the hands of persons who acted by their orders. Cæsar,
Pompeius, Cicero, and Crassus were murdered. Nothing serves more to show how much Augustus
differed from most Romans of his century than the fact that he died in his bed at extreme old age.

That Mr. Merivale's Cæsarism does not prevent him from doing justice to the opponents of Cæsar
is proved by his portrait of Q. Lutatius Catulus, the best leader of the optimates, and whom
he pronounces to have been the most moderate and disinterested of all the great men of his
day,--"indeed," he adds, "there is perhaps no character in the history of the Commonwealth
which commanded more general esteem, or obtained more blameless distinction in political life."
Yet Catulus was one of those men with whom Cæsar came earliest in collision, each as the representative
of his party on vital points of difference. Our historian's estimate of the life, labors, purposes,
and character of Pompeius is singularly correct, when we consider the temptation that he has
to underrate the man with whom Cæsar has stood in direct opposition for nineteen centuries.
There are few more emphatic passages in the historical literature of our language than the
account which is given in Vol. II. ch. 18, of the last days and death of Pompeius, and which
is followed by a most judicious summing-up of his history and position as a Roman leader. The
historian's mind appears to be strongly affected by the fate of the Pompeian house, as much
so as was the imagination of the Romans, which it seems to have haunted. This is in part due,
we presume, to the free use which he has made of Lucan's "Pharsalia," a work of great value
to those who would understand how the grand contest for supremacy was viewed by the beaten
party in after times. That poem is the funeral wail of the Roman aristocracy, and it embodies
the ideas and traditions of the vanquished as they existed far down into the Imperial age.
It testifies to the original vitality of the aristocratical faction, when we find a youthful
contemporary of Nero dedicating his genius to its service more than a century after the contest
had been decided on the battlefield. Whether Lucan was a patriot, or a selfish, but disappointed
courtier, we may feel certain that he never could have written in the Pompeian spirit, if that
spirit was not still dominant in the minds of a large number of those men and women who formed
the most cultivated portion of Roman society. To a critical historian, such as Mr. Merivale
is, his poem must be very useful, though it would be dangerous authority in unskilful hands.

The leading merit of this history is that it supplies a want, and supplies it effectually.
Opening about sixty years before the beginning of the Christian era, it terminates with the
death of M. Aurelius Antoninus, the point where Gibbon's work begins. We still need a work
beginning with the close of the Second Punic War and ending with the death of Sulla, to connect
Merivale with Arnold; but Mr. George Long is about to supply the want, at least in part. The
first two volumes, as we have said, end at the date of Cæsar's death. The third and fourth
embrace the long period in which Augustus was the principal character, and when the Roman Empire
was formed. The fifth and sixth cover the reigns of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, Nero, Galba,
Otho, and Vitellius, and a portion of the reign of Vespasian. The seventh and last volume is
devoted to the first Flavian house,--Vespasian, Titus, and Domitian,--and to those "five good
Emperors"--Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, and the Antonines--whose reigns are renowned in the history
of monarchy for their excellence. The materials of the work are, for the most part, ample,
and they have been well employed by the historian, a man of extensive scholarship and of critical
sagacity. Whether we subscribe to his opinions or not, there can be no doubt of his having
presented a brilliant picture of the civilized world during about two and a half eventful centuries.
His is the only readable work that we have which affords a continuous narrative of the history
of Rome from the appearance of Cæsar to the appearance of Commodus. Had it no other claim upon
us, this alone would justify us in recommending it to the closest attention of all who desire
to become acquainted with the facts that make up the sum of Roman Imperial history. But it
has other claims to the consideration of readers. It makes Roman Imperial history thoroughly
intelligible, because events are philosophically treated, and their bearing upon each other
is rendered clear. It is written with vivacity, force, and elegance. The style is the style
of a gentleman, and the sentiments are those of a Christian scholar. There is not a paragraph
in it which we could wish to see omitted, or essentially changed. It has won for its author
a place in the list of first-rate English historians, and he is to be ranked with Macaulay,
Grote, Hallam, Froude, Kinglake, and others of those great writers who have done so much to
illustrate the English name and to advance the cause of humanity. Being familiar with the work
from the time that the first and second volumes were published in England, in 1850, we have
always desired that it should be placed before the American reading public, confident that
here its high merits would secure for it a great and deserved popularity; and it is with a
sense of personal gratification that we have seen its publication begun in New York, in a form
that pleases the eye and gratifies good taste.

Church Pastorals: Hymns and Tunes for Public and Social Worship. Collected and Arranged by
NEHEMIAH ADAMS, D. D. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

The Rev. Dr. Bushnell, in August, 1852, delivered an address upon "Religious Music" before
the Beethoven Society of Yale College at the opening of their new organ. In the peroration
of this address, after remarking upon the great assistance which Christian feeling receives
in the praise of God from "things without life giving sound," he goes on to say,--"Let me suggest,
also, in this connection, the very great importance of the cultivation of religious music.
Every family should be trained in it; every Sunday or common school should have it as one of
its exercises. The Moravians have it as a kind of ordinance of grace for the children: not
without reason; for the powers of feeling and imagination, and the sense of spiritual realities,
are developed as much by a training of childhood in religious music as by any other means.
We complain that choirs and organs take the music to themselves in our churches, and that nothing
is left to the people but to hear their undistinguishable piping, which no one else can join
or follow or interpret. This must always be the complaint, till the congregations themselves
have exercise enough in singing to make the performance theirs. As soon as they are able to
throw in masses of sound that are not barbarous, but Christian, and have a right enjoyment
of their feeling in it, they will have the tunes and the style of the exercise in their own
way,--not before.... The more sorrowful is it, that, in our present defect of culture, there
are so many voices which are more incapable of the right distinctions of sound than things
without life, and which, when they attempt to sing, contribute more to the feeling of woe than
of praise."

These words are as true to-day as when they were uttered twelve years ago. Congregations which
do not desire, or cannot afford, to resign the musical portion of their service to professional
singers, have something more to do than to complain that the music is bad, or that they do
not like paid vocalists to troll out psalmody for them. They must go to work and make their
own music,--real music; for in these days unharmonious sounds are almost as much out of place
in the worship of God as an uncatholic spirit and an heretical doctrine. The truth of this
principle many societies admit, and some, like the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher's, have already
put it into practice; the majority, however, wait for help to free themselves from the customs
which have kept them listeners when they should be creators of vocal praise. The great obstacle
to congregational singing has been that the range of tunes already familiar was very limited,
while the providing a whole society with the paraphernalia of music-books involved great expense
to small purpose, since a large portion of the tunes contained in these books are unavailable
for such use, being prepared with a view to the wants of thoroughly trained singers; besides
which, the reference to two books, one for the words and the other for the music, is to many
persons perplexing, and to all inconvenient.

"Church Pastorals" is an attempt to overcome this obstacle, and to extend that help which is
wanted. Other attempts have been made before, but we regard this as the most successful, and
consider that Dr. Adams has prepared the best hymn-and-tune-book that has yet been issued,
as we propose briefly to illustrate by a recapitulation of his plan and his manner of executing it.

The hymns, which are nine hundred and eighty-eight in number, are selected from the great mass
of hymn-writers; although Watts and the Wesleys furnish the foundation, and the materials of
the superstructure are largely drawn from Doddridge, Cowper, Toplady, Montgomery, and others
of kindred spirit, yet many beautiful things have been added from the later religious poetry,
which are no less fervid in feeling, while less pronounced in doctrinal expression. These hymns
are arranged in judicious general divisions, which are again analytically separated into special
topics placed in logical sequence. After the hymns follow thirty-eight doxologies, the editor
having added to the short list of common ones others which are fine enough to become standard
at once.

But it is less as a hymn- than as a tune-book that "Church Pastorals" merits the notice of
societies and individuals who are truly interested in religious music, and we pass at once
to our remarks upon this portion of the work. The compiler, although holding himself personally
responsible for every selection, has availed himself of the advice and assistance of persons
professionally eminent in sacred music, one of whom placed at his disposal a library which
is unique in this country, containing works of which few Americans have owned or seen duplicates,
such as rare "Choral-Bücher" of German cathedrals, and curious collections of English ecclesiastical
compositions, a partial list of which is included in the volume, for the benefit of those who
are curious in such matters, or wish to know how far Dr. Adams's researches have led him. To
ascertain how many new melodies of the purest devotional character have been derived from these
rich sources a careful examination is necessary, as also to comprehend with what skill the
harmony has been preserved or adapted, in order to secure the two desirable results,--absolute
freshness and beauty of treatment, and practicability for ordinary use; but a casual inspection
will give sufficient indication of the spirit in which the work was undertaken, and of the
faithfulness with which it has been completed.

While originality has been properly sought, the old, familiar elements have not been neglected,
and those simple songs which were upon the lips of our parents and grandparents, and are yet
dear to us from association and intrinsic worth, are set in among the newer strains. The first
lines only are given of such as need merely to be recalled to the memory of any who ever sing;
but of others, equally prized, but less likely to be remembered, the full score is given.

The doxologies are for the most part set to noble chorals of such strong, straightforward character
that they cannot fail to become friends and intimates at once. In them, as in all the tunes,
the compass of ordinary voices has been considered; and although nothing has been left undone
which could give beauty to melody or scholarly variousness to harmony, the whole has been brought
within the range of all singers.

A novel and peculiar feature of the book is its "Stanzas to be sung impromptu." Occasions often
arise at social meetings or special services, when it becomes desirable to sing a portion,
or even the whole, of some homely, hearty hymn, but, while "the spirit moves," the opportunity
is lost in the search for the words or the fit air, or in an attempt to "set the tune." To
meet this want, Dr. Adams has brought together a variety of such stanzas, suited to all times
and places, and, coupled with each, the first line of a familiar melody, that the propitious
moment may be enjoyed and improved.

It will of course be understood that the tune appointed for each hymn is printed directly above
it, all four parts being given at length, the two trebles printed in a not unusual way upon
one staff, the tenor and bass having each separate lines. Therefore no difficulty in singing
the hymns can be felt even by the inexperienced, especially as one stanza is printed with the
notes to show the exact adaptation.

In fine, "Church Pastorals" is a work worthy of an extended circulation and capable of great
usefulness. It can serve every purpose of public worship, for it embraces all services of the
Sabbath congregation or the week-day gathering, and it touches upon all thoughts and feelings
of religious assemblies; it is not above the tastes and abilities of an earnest congregation,
nor beneath the notice and use of the independent choir. More than this, it has a particular
value for the home and the fireside. Every household knows some quiet hour when the family-voices
seek to join in the happy harmony of some unpretending hymn, and when the only limit to such
grateful music is the failure of memory or the meagreness of the library, which furnishes only
the hymns, or, giving the tunes, supplies only a part of the words,--for few families possess
both sorts of books in plenty for their convenient use. This volume offers all,--the hymn,
solemn, hopeful, sad, or jubilant, and united to it a tune, perhaps remembered from recollection's
earliest days, perhaps unknown and untried, but suiting well the spirit of the words, and ready
at an instant's desire to express the sentiment or emotion that rises for utterance. If "Church
Pastorals" had no other merit, this alone would make it worth possessing by all who love and
ever practise sacred music.

A thorough and elaborate index includes in one ingenious list all references, whether to hymns,
tunes, or metres; and the inaccuracies which will creep into even as handsome typography as
this are unimportant, and rectified as quickly as observed. The size is convenient, and the
shape comely.

Illustrations of Progress: A Series of Discussions by HERBERT SPENCER. With a Notice of Spencer's
"New System of Philosophy." New York: D. Appleton & Co.

Mr. Herbert Spencer is already a power in the world. Yet it is not the vulgar apprehension
of power which is associated with notoriety that we claim for him. He holds no position of
civil authority, neither do his works compete with Miss Braddon's poorest novel in the circulating-libraries.
But he has already influenced the silent life of a few thinking men whose belief marks the
point to which the civilization of the age must struggle to rise. In America, we may even now
confess our obligations to the writings of Mr. Spencer, for here sooner than elsewhere the
mass feel as utility what a few recognize as truth. The reader acquainted with the admirable
papers upon Education, which have been republished and extensively circulated in this country,
has recognized their author's fresh and vigorous spirit, his power of separating the essential
from the accidental, as well as his success in grasping the main features of a subject divested
of frivolous and subordinate details. That he possesses a thinking faculty of rare comprehensiveness,
as well as acuteness, will be allowed by all who will study his other works now in course of
republication in New York.

Mr. Spencer is at present engaged in an heroic attempt to construct a sufficing system of philosophy,
which shall include Biology, Psychology, Sociology, and Morality. The great interest to mankind
of the discussion proposed, as well as Mr. Spencer's claims to be intrusted with it, are set
forth with singular clearness and felicity in the essay which introduces the present volume.
Whatever success the latest discoveries in science render possible to solid intellectual force
assisted by the keenest instruments of logic will doubtless be attained. As far as the frontiers
of knowledge where the intellect may go, there is no living man whose guidance may more safely
be trusted. Mr. Spencer represents the scientific spirit of the age. He makes note of all that
comes within the range of sensuous experience, and declares whatever may be derived therefrom
by a careful induction. As a philosopher he does not go farther. Yet beyond this the heart
of humanity must ever penetrate. Let it be true, as it doubtless is, that, when the understanding
by process of logic seeks to demonstrate the Cause of All, it finds a barren abstraction destitute
of personality. It is no less true that God reveals Himself to the human feeling without intermediate
agency. For the religious sentiment Mr. Spencer finds an indestructible foundation. While maintaining
that man can grasp and know only the finite, he yet holds that science does not fill the whole
region of mental activity. Man may realize in consciousness what he may not grasp in thought.

Of the other doctrines of Mr. Spencer we attempt no exposition. His attitude towards theology
is to us more satisfactory than that of any recent thinker of the first class. But whatever
his conclusions, every true man will respect and encourage that rectitude of mind which follows
the issues of its reasoning at any cost. It was not the philosopher in his brain, but the fool
in his heart, who said, "There is no God." It is of little matter what inappropriate name narrow
people may have chosen for Mr. Spencer. Here is a conscientious investigator who finds duty
everywhere, who labors to give men truths which shall elevate and reform their lives; but he
believes that the hope of humanity was potentially shut in an egg, and never in an ark. And
there is the "reader upon the sofa,"--church-member he may be,--who tosses aside "Vanity Fair"
with the reflection that a gossiping of London snobs is human life, and that the best thing
to be done is to pay pew-rates and lie still and gird at it. Which of these two, think you,
is the modern representative of King David's "fool"?

We would not be charged with the superfluity of commending to scholars the writings of Mr.
Spencer. They have long ago found them out. It is to the mass of working men and women who
make time for a solid book or two in the course of the year that we submit their claims. While
those who have the leisure and training to realize Mr. Spencer's system as a developed unity
must necessarily be few, no reader of tolerable intelligence can fail to find much of interest
and suggestion in its several parts. With a common allowance for the abstruse nature of the
subjects of which he treats, Mr. Spencer may be called a popular writer. His philosophical
terminology will not be found troublesome in those of his writings which will first attract
the reader. The "Social Statics," the "Essays," and the treatise on "Education" are very clearly,
as well as most gracefully, written. And after these have been mastered, most readers will
not be repelled by the less easy reading of the "Principles of Psychology," and the "New System
of Philosophy." All these works are rich in materials for forming intelligent opinions, even
where we are unable to agree with those put forward by the author. Much may be learnt from
them in departments in which our common educational system is very deficient. The active citizen
may derive from them accurate, systematized information concerning his highest duties to society,
and the principles on which they are based. He may gain clearer notions of the value and bearing
of evidence, and be better able to distinguish between facts and inferences. He may find common
things suggestive of wiser thought--nay, we will venture to say, of truer emotion--than before.
For Mr. Spencer is not of that school of "philosophy" which teaches the hopelessness of human
effort, and, by implication, the abandonment of moral dignity. From profound generalizations
upon society, he rises to make the duty of the individual most solemn and imperative. Above
all, he has this best prerogative of really great thinkers,--he is able to change sentiments
to convictions.

If we have not particularized the claims of the single volume whose title is at the head of
our notice, it is because all that Mr. Spencer has written moves towards one end and is equally
worthy of attention. The essays here given are selected from two series, the first published
in 1857, the second in 1863. The present arrangement has been chosen by the author as more
suitable to develop the general purpose which governs his work. While the doctrine of Evolution
is more or less illustrated in each of these papers, the variety of subjects discussed must
touch at some point the taste and pursuit of any reader. From "Manners and Fashion" to "The
Nebular Hypothesis" is a sweep bold enough to include most prominent topics with which we are
concerned. Indeed, we can recall no modern volume of the same size which so thoroughly credits
its author with that faculty of looking about him which Pope thought it was man's business
to exercise. There are the current phrases, "seeing life," and "knowing the world," which generally
used to signify groping in the dirtiest corners of the one and fattening lazily upon the other;
but if it were possible to rescue such expressions from their vulgar associations, we think
that a candid reader would apply the best conceptions they suggested to the writer of the discussions
here collected. The world as it is to-day is seen by Mr. Spencer as by few living men. The
sciences, which taken singly too often seem only good to expel the false, have been summoned
together to declare the true. Not Nature alone, but Humanity, which is greater than Nature,
must be interrogated for answers that shall satisfy the ripest reason of the age. By the rare
gifts of comparison which turn to account his wide observations, Mr. Spencer has already established
principles which, however compelled for a time to compromise with prejudices and vested interests,
will become the recognized basis of an improved society.

