To preserve for the people one unmuzzled organ of Public Opinion in which Truth is the criterion
and the Betterment of Conditions the end and aim,--such is the purpose of The Arena.

--The Editor.

Specimen Copy Free

The Arena Company

Copley Square

Boston

For sale by all booksellers. Sent postpaid on receipt of price.

THE NESTOR OF THE MAGAZINES

"According to Homer, Nestor, the old warrior and the wise counselor of the Greeks, had ruled
over three generations of men, and was wise as the immortal gods."

THE NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

has been in the van of American thought for more than three-quarters of a century, ranking
always with the best and most influential periodicals in the world.

It is the mouthpiece of the men who know most about the great topics on which Americans require
to be informed from month to month, its contributors being the leaders of thought and action
in every field.

Those who would take counsel of the highest knowledge on the .affairs of the time, and learn
what is to be said regarding them by the recognized authorities on both sides, must therefore
read The North American Review, the Nestor of the magazines.

The North American Review constantly offers to the public a programme of writers and essays
that excite the reader and gratify the intellectual appetite. In this respect there is no other
magazine that approaches it.--New York Sun.

The North American Review is ahead of any magazine this country has ever seen in the importance
of the topics it discusses and the eminence of its contributors.--Albany Argus.

No other magazine in the world so fully and fairly presents the opinions of the leading writers
and thinkers on all questions of public interest as The North American Review.--Boston Journal.

This magazine has for more than eighty years, within its own well- defined lines, stood at
the head of monthly publications.--Chicago Record.

Presents the best current thought on the topics it treats of. It appeals to a field above mere
popularity, and it stands there pre-eminent.--Wheeling Intelligencer.

Cannot be ignored by the reader who keeps along with current discussion.--Indianapolis Journal.

50 Cents a Number, $5.00 a Year.

The North American Review, 291 Fifth Avenue, New York.

THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE

ONE DOLLAR A YEAR

Published Fortnightly at 1325 Tenth Street, N, W., Washington, D. C.

(Founded in 1883 at Beatrice, Neb.)

The Woman's Tribune is one of the two National Woman Suffrage papers in the United States,
and being published at the National Capital, has many points of advantage.

It reports all important features of National and State work of Woman Suffrage Associations;
gives a summary of whatever relates to the advancement of women and general progress; has choice
poetry, book reviews, a corner for Zintka Lanuni and her friends, and much that is of interest
to all members of the family.

Elizabeth Cady Stanton writes for the Tribune. Valuable books offered as premiums. Send ten
cents for five sample copies. Clara Bewick Colby, Editor and Publisher.

Mrs. Clara Bewick Colby is prepared to lecture for Woman's Clubs and Literary Societies on
Reform, Literary and Historical Topics. Send for circulars to 1325 Tenth St., N. W., Washington,
D. C.

------------------------

WOMAN, CHURCH AND STATE.

By Matilda Joslyn Gage.

This is Mrs. Gage's latest and crowning work. It is the book to show how the Church has enslaved
women, and kept and keeps her in an inferior position. Every woman ought to read it. Every
liberal man and woman will want it.

Cloth, $2.00; Half Leather, $3.00.

(Complete in One Vol.)

Address

Matilda Joslyn Gage,

120 Fleurnoy St., Chicago, Ill.

FREE THOUGHT MAGAZINE H. L. Green . . . Editor and Publisher.

Price:--$ 1.00 a Year; 15 Cents a Single Copy.

Editorial Contributors:

Judge C. B. Waite, Thaddeus B. Wakeman,

B. F. Underwood, Helen H. Gardener,

George Jacob Holyoake

Testimonials:

Col. Robert G. Ingersoll:

"Every Liberal in this country ought to take the Free Thought Magazine, and I hope they will."

Elizabeth Cady Stanton:

"I like the Free Thought Magazine because it breathes the spirit of liberty. It deserves the
support of all Liberal thinkers."

Hon. Geo. W. Julian:

"It fills a place and meets a want which is not supplied by any other publication, and it deserves
the support and encouragement of all true Liberals."

Helen H. Gardener:

"I have always liked and admired the Free Thought Magazine. I am glad to hear it is to be enlarged
though I am sure that all of us were satisfied with it before."

Hon. D. K. Tenney:

"It stands decidedly in the front rank of publications designed to clear the religious atmosphere
of the delusions, superstitions and dogmas which for so many centuries have misled and cursed
the world. It deserves the sympathy and support of all who favor the highest thought on gravest
subjects."

B. F. Underwood:

"The Free Thought Magazine, which has steadily improved from the first, is now a publication
that reflects great credit upon its editor and corps of contributors. It contains many strong
and fine articles. Free Thinkers everywhere ought to sustain it handsomely by taking it, and
by making an effort to induce others to subscribe."

T. B. Wakeman, Esq.:

"I do hereby solemnly certify that, in my humble but honest belief, the improved Free Thought
Magazine is the greatest and best Free Thought and Liberal Organ of all real or would-be emancipated
souls in the United States, and that its regular perusal is the most healthy and effective
means of grace possible for such souls to enjoy, and to impart to others to secure their salvation
in this world."

Address Free Thought Magazine, 218 E. Indiana St., Chicago, Ill.

------------------------

William Us Hewitt

Book, Magazine And Newspaper Printer

24-26 Vandewater Street,

Near Frankfort Street. New York City

THE PACIFIC EMPIRE

A Weekly Publication Conducted By Women For Women.

It is devoted to the interests of women and the development of art and literature in the Pacific
Northwest. It contains serial and short stories depicting true characters and original types
of the Wild West; "Household Work," "What to Wear," "Literary Comment," and "Woman's Work"
filling its pages. It is the one woman's journal of the Pacific Coast.

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year in Advance.

L. M. Miller, C. C. Coggswell, Editors.

Address

Tire Pacific Expire

Portland, Ore.

------------------------

Barr-Dinwiddie

Printing and Bookbinding Company

Greenville, Jersey City, N. J.

Fine Bindings a Specialty.

THE BOSTON INVESTIGATOR

Lemuel K. Washburn, Editor. Ralph Washburn Chainey, Associate Editor.

The Oldest and Most Progressive Reform Journal in the United States.

The Investigator is devoted to Universal Mental Liberty. For more than sixty years this paper
has maintained the battle for Liberty against a world of opposition. It has borne the brunt
of the battle. Thus it may well be called "the tried and true friend of human rights." It has
had for its grand aim the elevation of man through the truth and moral education. In short,
the Investigator is the people's paper.

Col. R. G. Ingersoll says of it: "It is the best of all the Liberal papers."

Published every Saturday, at $3.00 per year, by the Boston Investigator Publishing Co., at
the Paine Memorial Building, 9 Appleton Street, Boston, Mass.

Specimen Copies Free.

Address

The Boston Investigator Co.

Paine Memorial Building, Appleton St.,

Boston, Mass.

------------------------

SUBSCRIBE

FOR

THE WISCONSIN CITIZEN

A monthly paper published by the Wisconsin Equal Suffrage Association at Brodhead, Wisconsin

Helen H. Charlton

Editor

Price Twenty-five Cents per Year