
She declared that nothing should prevent her following the army to Paris, beseeching me to
obtain permission for her to ride on with the first detachment that quitted the city. I was
obliged to comply, for there is no reasoning with the anxious mind of an attached wife! and
I presented myself before our choleric commandant. Being in black, I was mistaken for a hapless
widow, and all pressed to offer me service. I found Captain W----, who immediately interested
himself, and I had the supreme pleasure of not only obtaining an escort, but of receiving the
certain assurance of her gallant husband's safety. She spent the evening with us, and created
a general interest. She had accompanied her husband in the campaigns in Spain, soon after a
marriage purement d'inclination. Captain ---- had been brought up to the Bar; but the mania
of war seized him, and he preferred figuring in the Army List, and practising military tactics,
to studying Burn's Justice and Blackstone's Commentaries. She would not lose sight of her new
friend; and at four o'clock on Tuesday morning I conducted her to the Porte de Namur, where
I found the promised escort with two officers, to whom I could assign her with confidence.
She sprang into her saddle with an alacrity, that expressed she was going to join the husband
of her affection; and she promised to present him to me in Paris.

Old C----, one of the "all-talented Whigs," who you know is half a buffoon, was a torment to
us during the fearful period of the three days--running to and fro, standing in every body's
way, seeking and reporting news, exclaiming, "but the battle cannot be lost--I do not see the
army in retreat," &c. &c. At length, the battle over, England victorious, the Duke on Monday
rode quietly into Bruxelles, to make arrangements for the wounded, &c. C---- rushes to his
apartment to make his compliments.

"Thirty thousand men lost!" replied the Duke.

"But what a victory!"

"Thirty thousand men killed!--hard case!"--still answered the Duke, with his usual simplicity
of expression when speaking of his own exploits. C----, who knew not what diffidence was, nor
could discover its merits in another, retreated in evident disappointment at his compliments
of felicitation having the appearance of being so little appreciated; almost doubtful, whether
Wellington was in truth a hero, or whether the battle was really gained!

The interiors of the churches are divided in stalls, the wounded placed in them on layers of
straw, and women and surgeons are seen administering to their ills. The Belgians have thrown
open their houses, and officers and soldiers are promiscuously placed in their decorated salons,
and served with equal assiduity. The French seemed to have fought with redoubled rancour on
these terrible days; even the nature of the wounds are without parallel in history. The light
carts I saw preparing some weeks since, were sent off to the frontiers; therefore, to add to
the sufferings of these brave men, they are brought in upon the rough wagons employed in agriculture.
This is the sixth day, and they are still arriving in all kinds of conveyances. Our carriage
was stopped in la Rue de Montagne last evening; the cause originated in two wagons filled with
the wounded and the dying, recently discovered! Some of the inhabitants, with candles, were
groping anxiously, in search of their relations, and administering various restoratives to
those they knew not, until another church could be hastily prepared to receive them. Hundreds
of French prisoners are brought in,--many of them quite boys, and in peasants' habits, apparently
forced by cruel conscriptions to become warriors malgré eux, and forming a remarkable contrast
to those hardy and athletic frames, who seem destined by nature for the military career. Here
were these poor recruits, a few weeks since dragged from their native hearths, constrained
by regal power to illustrate themselves by the sword--when their hearts and characters were
formed for domestic cares, and those agricultural labours which sweetened their rustic meal,
and only trying to evade their direst enemy--the recruiting-sergeant of Napoleon!

But there is another distinctive mark in those veteran French soldiers, whom we see conveyed
into Bruxelles, wounded and prisoners. They seem to retain a ferocious expression, even at
the moment of sinking into the feebleness of death, and while every human succour is rendering
to them. They cast a furtive glance around, and their countenances indicate all the horror
of their minds at their late reverses, and to be thinking less of the bodily pains they are
enduring, than of their incapability to revenge themselves upon their victors! Such was the
scene exhibited this morning on the steps of the hotel opposite to my apartment.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

JULIUS CAESAR--HIS SUPERSTITION.

[A curious paper, entitled The Caesars, will be found in Blackwood's Magazine for the present
month. It is full of attractive lore, and contains, to our thinking, a masterly estimate of
the actual character of Caesar. It displays very considerable learning, research, and knowledge
of life, or that treasure which we call world-knowledge. It is not a cut-and-dry classical
character "by way of abstract," but such a whole-length portrait as we wish to see drawn of
every great man of antiquity, respecting whose merits mankind are, as it were, still groping
in comparative ignorance or misconception.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Matthew Lansberg used to say, "If you wish to have a shoe made of durable materials, you should
make the upper leather of the mouth of a hard drinker, for that never lets in water."

       *       *       *       *       *

National Bull.--In the "printed directions respecting the reading-room of the British Museum,"
we find the following sapient veto put upon the readers:--"Readers will be allowed to take
one or more extracts from any printed book or manuscript; but no whole, or greater part (oh!
poor Euclid!) of a manuscript is to be transcribed without," &c.--Morning Chronicle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twins.--Lamerton Church, in Devonshire, is remarkable for having the effigies of Nicholas and
Andrew Tremaine, twins, who were so like each other, that they could not be distinguished but
by some outward mark. The most singular part of their history, as it is told, is, that when
asunder, if one was merry, the other was so, and the contrary. And as they could not endure
to be separate in their lifetime, so neither at their deaths; for, in 1564, they both served
at Newhaven, when the one being slain, the other stepped instantly into his place, and was
slain also.

T. GILL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATE SIR WALTER SCOTT, BART.

       *       *       *       *       *

  With the present Number, price Twopence,
    AN ILLUSTRATED SUPPLEMENT,
  Containing a MEMOIR of the LIFE & WRITINGS
    of the late
  SIR WALTER SCOTT, BART.
    With Five Engravings.