From this period, Mezzofanti continued to reside at Rome. Far, however, from relaxing in the
pursuit of his favourite study after his elevation, he only used the opportunities thus afforded
for the purpose of cultivating it with more effect. When the writer of these pages first had
the honour of being presented to him, he was in the full flush of the excitement of a new study--that
of the language of the California Indians, two of whom had recently come as pupils to the College
of the Propaganda; and up to his very last year, the same zeal continued unabated. His death
occurred March 16, 1849, in the seventy-fifth year of his age, and was most probably hastened
by the excitement and distress caused by the political troubles of the period.

Such is a brief outline of the quiet and uneventful career of this extraordinary man. It remains
that we give a short account of the nature and extent of his prodigious attainments as a linguist.
It is observed by the author of an interesting paper read a few weeks since at a meeting of
the Philological Society, that, taking the account of the linguistic accomplishments of King
Mithridates even in the most exaggerated form in which it is given by the ancients, who represent
him as speaking the languages of twenty-two nations, it fades into insignificance in contrast
with the known and ascertained attainments of Mezzofanti. A Russian traveller, who published
in 1846 a collection of Letters from Rome, writes of Mezzofanti:--'Twice I have visited this
remarkable man, a phenomenon as yet unparalleled in the learned world. He spoke eight languages
fluently in my presence. He expressed himself in Russian very purely and correctly. Even now,
in advanced life, he continues to study fresh dialects. He learned Chinese not long ago. I
asked him to give me a list of all the languages and dialects in which he was able to express
himself, and he sent me the name of GOD written with his own hand in fifty-six languages, of
which thirty were European, not including their dialects; seventeen Asiatic, also without counting
their dialects; five African, and four American!' We should add, however, from the cardinal's
own avowal to ourselves, that of the fifty-six languages here alluded to, there were some which
he did not profess to speak, and with which his acquaintance was more limited than with the
rest; an avowal the honesty of which will be best appreciated when it is considered, on the
one hand, how difficult it would have been to test his knowledge of the vast majority among
these languages; and, on the other, how marvellously perfect was his admitted familiarity with
those which he did profess really to know.

The author of the memoir submitted to the Philological Society, has collected a number of notices
of Mezzofanti by travellers in Italy, who had seen him at different periods of his career.
Mr Stewart Rose, in 1817, tells of him that a Smyrniote servant, who was with him, declared
that he might pass for a Greek or a Turk throughout the dominions of the Grand Seignior. A
few years later, while he was still residing at Bologna, he was visited by the celebrated Hungarian
astronomer, Baron Zach, editor of the well-known Correspondences Astronomiques, on occasion
of the annular eclipse which was then visible in Italy. 'This extraordinary man,' writes the
baron, February 1820, 'speaks thirty-two languages, living and dead--in the manner I am going
to describe. He accosted me in Hungarian, with a compliment so well-turned, and in such excellent
Magyar, that I was quite taken by surprise. He afterwards spoke to me in German, at first in
good Saxon, and then in the Austrian and Swabian dialects, with a correctness of accent that
amazed me to the last degree, and made me burst into a fit of laughter at the thought of the
contrast between the language and the appearance of this astonishing professor. He spoke English
to Captain Smyth, Russian and Polish to Prince Volkonski, with the same volubility as if he
had been speaking his native tongue.' As a last trial, the baron suddenly accosted him in Walachian,
when, 'without hesitation, and without appearing to remark what an out-of-the-way dialect had
been taken, away went the polyglot with equal volubility;' and Zach adds, that he even knew
the Zingller or gipsy language, which had long proved a puzzle to himself. Molbech, a Danish
traveller, who had an interview with him in 1820, adds to his account of this miraculous polyglotist,
that 'he is not merely a linguist, but is well acquainted with literary history and bibliography,
and also with the library under his charge. He is a man of the finest and most polished manners,
and at the same time, of the most engaging good-nature and politeness.'

It would be easy to multiply anecdotes, shewing the enthusiasm with which Mezzofanti entered
on the study of language after language. He sought out new tongues with an insatiable passion,
and may be said to have never been happy but when engaged in the mastering of words and grammars.
No degree of bad health interrupted his pursuit. Till the day of his death, he was engaged
in his darling task: life closed on him while so occupied. He died just as he had acquired
a thorough proficiency in Californian--a singular instance of the power of mind exercised on
a favourite subject, and shewing what may be accomplished when men set their heart on it. The
career of this remarkable linguist, however, cannot be considered exemplary. We would recommend
no person to plunge headlong into an absorbing passion for any accomplishment. Mezzofanti was
a curiosity--a marvel--the wonder of the world of letters; and it is chiefly as such that a
notice of him here will be considered interesting.

CURIOSITIES OF POSTHUMOUS CHARITY.

The curious observer, in his rambles about town, is occasionally struck with some singular
demonstrations for which he is at a loss to account. Sometimes they assume a benevolent form,
and sometimes they have a holiday-making aspect, yet with a touch of the lugubrious. In London,
or in some one of the thriving towns lying within a score of miles of it, he strolls into a
church, where he sees a number of loaves of bread piled up at the back of the communion-table,
or ranged, as they are in a baker's shop, upon shelves against the wall. It is a pleasant sight,
but apt to be somewhat puzzling. Perhaps he saunters into a country church-yard, and there
finds amongst the rank grass and moss-grown and neglected memorials of the silent multitude,
one trim and well-tended monument, uninvaded by cryptogamia, free from all stain of the weather,
and the surrounding grassy sward neatly mown and fenced in, it may be, with budding willow
branches or a circle of clipped box. Or he finds his way through a suburban village, blocked
up some fine morning by a crowd of poor women and girls, clustered round the door of a retired
tradesman or the curate of the place, from which three or four at a time emerge with gratified
looks, and go about their business, while others enter in their turn. Such demonstrations as
these, and we might mention many others, have their origin in certain charitable dispositions
and bequests, many of which are of considerable antiquity. There is one in operation to this
day, near Winchester, which dates from the time of William of Wykeham; by virtue of which every
traveller passing that way, if he choose to make the demand, is regaled with a pint of beer
and a meal of bread and cheese. There is another similar antique charity in operation in Wiltshire,
near Devizes, where, on one occasion, the dispenser of the benevolence, in the exercise of
his privilege to feed the hungry, threw a loaf of bread into the carriage of George III. as
the royal cortège passed the spot. The name of these post-mortem charities is legion. They
abound in every city, burgh, town, and hamlet in England, to an extent absolutely startling
to a person who looks into the subject for the first time. The number of them belonging to
the city of London alone--that is, originating among her citizens, and mostly dispensed under
the direction of the several worshipful companies--can hardly be fewer than 1500, if so few.
The parochial charities only of London city yield an income of nearly L.40,000 a year. The
history of all these charities would fill many bulky volumes. We propose merely to take a passing
glance at a few, which are interesting from their singularity, or from the light which they
reflect upon the benevolent aspect of a certain section of society in times long past; and
which, perhaps, may be found in some degree instructive and suggestive, as illustrating the
operation of post-mortem benevolence.

At St ---- Church, not a hundred miles from St Martin's Le Grand, there prevails an amusing
instance of the perversion of the funds of a charity to purposes which could not possibly have
been intended by the founder. Many centuries ago, a Roman Catholic gentleman, dying, bequeathed
to that church a small estate, the proceeds of which he directed should be devoted to the purpose
of supplying the officiating priests with refreshment on the Sabbath-day. The Roman Catholic
service has long since given place to a Protestant one, and the band of officiating priests
has dwindled down to one clergyman--while the value of the estate has increased perhaps fiftyfold.
At the present moment, the sum which the estate originally produced is paid over to the church-wardens,
who are at times a little puzzled as to what to do with it. They get rid of a good portion
in this way: at every service which is held in the church, they place a bottle of the best
sherry which can be procured for money upon the vestry-table; from this the 'officiating priest'
strengthens his inner man with a glass or two before commencing his ministrations, and then
the church-wardens sit down and finish the remainder comfortably by themselves, while the reverend
gentleman is in the reading-desk or the pulpit. The cost of the wine, however, does not amount
to half the sum in their hands, and the remainder goes to form a fund from which the church
is painted, repaired, decorated, and kept in apple-pie order--the whole fabric undergoing a
thorough revision and polish both outside and in as often as a pretext can be found. What becomes
of the bulk of the property--the large surplus arising from the increased value of the devised
estate--this deponent sayeth not: the reader may be in a condition to guess by the time he
has read to the end of this paper.

In the year 1565, a Mr Edward Taylor willed to the Leathersellers' Company a messuage, tenement,
and melting-house, in the parish of St Olave, and other messuages in the same parish, upon
condition that they should, quarterly and for ever, distribute among the poorest and neediest
people in the Poultry Compter one kilderkin of beer and twelve pennyworths of bread, and the
same to the poor of Wood Street Compter, Newgate, and the Fleet, the King's Bench, and the
Marshalsea prisons. Under this bequest, the Company are at present in possession of considerable
property, vastly increased in value since the date of the will; in respect of which property,
1s. worth of penny-loaves, and 2s. in money, in lieu of beer, are sent by them every quarter
to the poor prisoners in each of the prisons mentioned in the original testament!

