Then she went thither, and found everything as the night wind had said. She counted the reeds
by the sea, and cut off the eleventh, struck the dragon therewith, whereupon the lion overcame
it, and immediately both of them regained their human shapes. But when the princess, who had
before been the dragon, was delivered from enchantment, she took the youth by the arm, seated
herself on the griffin, and carried him off with her. There stood the poor maiden who had wandered
so far and was again forsaken. She sat down and cried, but at last she took courage and said,
"Still I will go as far as the wind blows and as long as the cock crows, until I find him,"
and she went forth by long, long roads, until at last she came to the castle where both of
them were living together; there she heard that soon a feast was to be held, in which they
would celebrate their wedding, but she said, "God still helps me," and opened the casket that
the sun had given her. A dress lay therein as brilliant as the sun itself. So she took it out
and put it on, and went up into the castle, and everyone, even the bride herself, looked at
her with astonishment. The dress pleased the bride so well that she thought it might do for
her wedding-dress, and asked if it was for sale? "Not for money or land," answered she, "but
for flesh and blood." The bride asked her what she meant by that, so she said, "Let me sleep
a night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleeps." The bride would not, yet wanted very much
to have the dress; at last she consented, but the page was to give the prince a sleeping-draught.
When it was night, therefore, and the youth was already asleep, she was led into the chamber;
she seated herself on the bed and said, "I have followed after thee for seven years. I have
been to the sun and the moon, and the four winds, and have enquired for thee, and have helped
thee against the dragon; wilt thou, then quite forget me?" But the prince slept so soundly
that it only seemed to him as if the wind were whistling outside in the fir-trees. When therefore
day broke, she was led out again, and had to give up the golden dress.  And as that even had
been of no avail, she was sad, went out into a meadow, sat down there, and wept. While she
was sitting there, she thought of the egg which the moon had given her; she opened it, and
there came out a clucking hen with twelve chickens all of gold, and they ran about chirping,
and crept again under the old hen's wings; nothing more beautiful was ever seen in the world!
Then she arose, and drove them through the meadow before her, until the bride looked out of
the window. The little chickens pleased her so much that she immediately came down and asked
if they were for sale. "Not for money or land, but for flesh and blood; let me sleep another
night in the chamber where the bridegroom sleeps." The bride said, "Yes," intending to cheat
her as on the former evening.  But when the prince went to bed he asked the page what the murmuring
and rustling in the night had been? On this the page told all; that he had been forced to give
him a sleeping-draught, because a poor girl had slept secretly in the chamber, and that he
was to give him another that night. The prince said, "Pour out the draught by the bed-side."
At night, she was again led in, and when she began to relate how ill all had fared with her,
he immediately recognized his beloved wife by her voice, sprang up and cried, "Now I really
am released! I have been as it were in a dream, for the strange princess has bewitched me so
that I have been compelled to forget thee, but God has delivered me from the spell at the right
time." Then they both left the castle secretly in the night, for they feared the father of
the princess, who was a sorcerer, and they seated themselves on the griffin which bore them
across the Red Sea, and when they were in the midst of it, she let fall the nut. Immediately
a tall nut-tree grew up, whereon the bird rested, and then carried them home, where they found
their child, who had grown tall and beautiful, and they lived thenceforth happily until their
death. Soon afterwards the false bride said to the young King, "Dearest husband, I beg you
to do me a favour."

90 The Young Giant

Once on a time a countryman had a son who was as big as a thumb, and did not become any bigger,
and during several years did not grow one hair's breadth.  Once when the father was going out
to plough, the little one said, "Father, I will go out with you." "Thou wouldst go out with
me?" said the father. "Stay here, thou wilt be of no use out there, besides thou mightest get
lost!" Then Thumbling began to cry, and for the sake of peace his father put him in his pocket,
and took him with him. When he was outside in the field, he took him out again, and set him
in a freshly-cut furrow. Whilst he was there, a great giant came over the hill.  "Do thou see
that great bogie?" said the father, for he wanted to frighten the little fellow to make him
good; "he is coming to fetch thee." The giant, however, had scarcely taken two steps with his
long legs before he was in the furrow. He took up little Thumbling carefully with two fingers,
examined him, and without saying one word went away with him. His father stood by, but could
not utter a sound for terror, and he thought nothing else but that his child was lost, and
that as long as he lived he should never set eyes on him again.

The giant, however, carried him home, suckled him, and Thumbling grew and became tall and strong
after the manner of giants. When two years had passed, the old giant took him into the forest,
wanted to try him, and said, "Pull up a stick for thyself." Then the boy was already so strong
that he tore up a young tree out of the earth by the roots. But the giant thought, "We must
do better than that," took him back again, and suckled him two years longer. When he tried
him, his strength had increased so much that he could tear an old tree out of the ground. That
was still not enough for the giant; he again suckled him for two years, and when he then went
with him into the forest and said, "Now just tear up a proper stick for me," the boy tore up
the strongest oak-tree from the earth, so that it split, and that was a mere trifle to him.
"Now that will do," said the giant, "thou art perfect," and took him back to the field from
whence he had brought him. His father was there following the plough. The young giant went
up to him, and said, "Does my father see what a fine man his son has grown into?"

The farmer was alarmed, and said, "No, thou art not my son; I don't want thee leave me!" "Truly
I am your son; allow me to do your work, I can plough as well as you, nay better." "No, no,
thou art not my son; and thou canst not plough go away!" However, as he was afraid of this
great man, he left go of the plough, stepped back and stood at one side of the piece of land.
Then the youth took the plough, and just pressed it with one hand, but his grasp was so strong
that the plough went deep into the earth. The farmer could not bear to see that, and called
to him, "If thou art determined to plough, thou must not press so hard on it, that makes bad
work." The youth, however, unharnessed the horses, and drew the plough himself, saying, "Just
go home, father, and bid my mother make ready a large dish of food, and in the meantime I will
go over the field." Then the farmer went home, and ordered his wife to prepare the food; but
the youth ploughed the field which was two acres large, quite alone, and then he harnessed
himself to the harrow, and harrowed the whole of the land, using two harrows at once. When
he had done it, he went into the forest, and pulled up two oak-trees, laid them across his
shoulders, and hung on them one harrow behind and one before, and also one horse behind and
one before, and carried all as if it had been a bundle of straw, to his parents' house. When
he entered the yard, his mother did not recognize him, and asked, "Who is that horrible tall
man?" The farmer said, "That is our son." She said, "No that cannot be our son, we never had
such a tall one, ours was a little thing." She called to him, "Go away, we do not want thee!"
The youth was silent, but led his horses to the stable, gave them some oats and hay, and all
that they wanted. When he had done this, he went into the parlour, sat down on the bench and
said, "Mother, now I should like something to eat, will it soon be ready?" Then she said, "Yes,"
and brought in two immense dishes full of food, which would have been enough to satisfy herself
and her husband for a week. The youth, however, ate the whole of it himself, and asked if she
had nothing more to set before him. "No," she replied, "that is all we have." "But that was
only a taste, I must have more." She did not dare to oppose him, and went and put a huge caldron
full of food on the fire, and when it was ready, carried it in. "At length come a few crumbs,"
said he, and ate all there was, but it was still not sufficient to appease his hunger. Then
said he, "Father, I see well that with you I shall never have food enough; if you will get
me an iron staff which is strong, and which I cannot break against my knees, I will go out
into the world." The farmer was glad, put his two horses in his cart, and fetched from the
smith a staff so large and thick, that the two horses could only just bring it away. The youth
laid it across his knees, and snap! he broke it in two in the middle like a bean-stalk, and
threw it away. The father then harnessed four horses, and brought a bar which was so long and
thick, that the four horses could only just drag it. The son snapped this also in twain against
his knees, threw it away, and said, "Father, this can be of no use to me, you must harness
more horses, and bring a stronger staff." So the father harnessed eight horses, and brought
one which was so long and thick, that the eight horses could only just carry it. When the son
took it in his hand, he broke off a bit from the top of it also, and said, "Father, I see that
you will not be able to procure me any such staff as I want, I will remain no longer with you."

So he went away, and gave out that he was a smith's apprentice. He arrived at a village, wherein
lived a smith who was a greedy fellow, who never did a kindness to any one, but wanted everything
for himself. The youth went into the smithy and asked if he needed a journeyman. "Yes," said
the smith, and looked at him, and thought, "That is a strong fellow who will strike out well,
and earn his bread."  So he asked, "How much wages dost thou want?" "I don't want any at all,"
he replied, "only every fortnight, when the other journeymen are paid, I will give thee two
blows, and thou must bear them." The miser was heartily satisfied, and thought he would thus
save much money. Next morning, the strange journeyman was to begin to work, but when the master
brought the glowing bar, and the youth struck his first blow, the iron flew asunder, and the
anvil sank so deep into the earth, that there was no bringing it out again. Then the miser
grew angry, and said, "Oh, but I can't make any use of you, you strike far too powerfully;
what will you have for the one blow?"

Then said he, "I will only give you quite a small blow, that's all." And he raised his foot,
and gave him such a kick that he flew away over four loads of hay.  Then he sought out the
thickest iron bar in the smithy for himself, took it as a stick in his hand and went onwards.

When he had walked for some time, he came to a small farm, and asked the bailiff if he did
not require a head-servant. "Yes," said the bailiff, "I can make use of one; you look a strong
fellow who can do something, how much a year do you want as wages?" He again replied that he
wanted no wages at all, but that every year he would give him three blows, which he must bear.
Then the bailiff was satisfied, for he, too, was a covetous fellow. Next morning all the servants
were to go into the wood, and the others were already up, but the head-servant was still in
bed. Then one of them called to him, "Get up, it is time; we are going into the wood, and thou
must go with us." "Ah," said he quite roughly and surlily, "you may just go, then; I shall
be back again before any of you." Then the others went to the bailiff, and told him that the
head-man was still lying in bed, and would not go into the wood with them. The bailiff said
they were to awaken him again, and tell him to harness the horses. The head-man, however, said
as before, "Just go there, I shall be back again before any of you." And then he stayed in
bed two hours longer. At length he arose from the feathers, but first he got himself two bushels
of peas from the loft, made himself some broth with them, ate it at his leisure, and when that
was done, went and harnessed the horses, and drove into the wood. Not far from the wood was
a ravine through which he had to pass, so he first drove the horses on, and then stopped them,
and went behind the cart, took trees and brushwood, and made a great barricade, so that no
horse could get through. When he was entering the wood, the others were just driving out of
it with their loaded carts to go home; then said he to them, "Drive on, I will still get home
before you do." He did not drive far into the wood, but at once tore two of the very largest
trees of all out of the earth, threw them on his cart, and turned round. When he came to the
barricade, the others were still standing there, not able to get through. "Don't you see,"
said he, "that if you had stayed with me, you would have got home just as quickly, and would
have had another hour's sleep?" He now wanted to drive on, but his horses could not work their
way through, so he unharnessed them, laid them on the top of the cart, took the shafts in his
own hands, and pulled it all through, and he did this just as easily as if it had been laden
with feathers. When he was over, he said to the others, "There, you see, I have got over quicker
than you," and drove on, and the others had to stay where they were. In the yard, however,
he took a tree in his hand, showed it to the bailiff, and said, "Isn't that a fine bundle of
wood?" Then said the bailiff to his wife, "The servant is a good one, if he does sleep long,
he is still home before the others." So he served the bailiff for a year, and when that was
over, and the other servants were getting their wages, he said it was time for him to take
his too. The bailiff, however, was afraid of the blows which he was to receive, and earnestly
entreated him to excuse him from having them; for rather than that, he himself would be head-servant,
and the youth should be bailiff. "No," said he, "I will not be a bailiff, I am head-servant,
and will remain so, but I will administer that which we agreed on." The bailiff was willing
to give him whatsoever he demanded, but it was of no use, the head-servant said no to everything.
Then the bailiff did not know what to do, and begged for a fortnight's delay, for he wanted
to find some way of escape. The head-servant consented to this delay. The bailiff summoned
all his clerks together, and they were to think the matter over, and give him advice.