Mr. Dicey's predilections lead him to make a generous, although discriminating, estimate of
those men who, in time past, have endeavored to serve their country by leaving the level commonplaces
of respectable citizenship. It is no slight praise to say that his chapter upon the New-England
Abolitionists is clear and just. Their points of disagreement with the Republican party are
stated with no common accuracy. Careful sentences give the precise position of Garrison and
his adherents: the intrinsic essence of the movement of these reformers is divested of the
subordinate and trivial facts so often put forward to misrepresent it. Although Mr. Dicey endeavors
not to commit himself upon the vital differences in the agitation of anti-slavery sentiments
by the Abolitionists and by the Republican party, it is very evident that he inclines to the
belief that the former, in their advocacy of disunion, acted not from a perverse and fanatical
philosophy, but from the logical compulsions of a critical understanding, stimulated by an
intense conviction of the national sin.

We have dwelt thus upon Mr. Dicey's views of the war, and of the great moral question with
which it is connected, because these portions of his volumes are most pertinent to us, as well
as creditable to him. His sketches of public characters are good common-sense grasps at them,
which generally get their externals, and occasionally something more. The description of the
President is forcible, though a little too graphic for perfect courtesy. Caleb Cushing impresses
the traveller as one of the ablest of our public men, and Wendell Phillips as by far the most
eloquent speaker he ever heard. General Butler, however, is not to Mr. Dicey's taste. Indeed,
he is hardly behind the "Saturday Review" in the terrible epithets he bestows upon the man
who he acknowledges "was associated with the grandest triumph of the Federal arms, and by some
means or other preserved New Orleans to the Union with but little cost of either men or money."
It is rather late to renew discussion about the notorious order relating to the women of the
subjected city. But Mr. Dicey chooses to express his belief in an infamous intention of General
Butler at the time of its issue,--though he declares that "the strictest care was taken lest
the order should be abused," and that the "Southern ladies [?] were grossly insulting in their
behavior to the Union soldiers, using language and gestures which, in a city occupied by troops
of any other nation, would have subjected them, without orders, to the coarsest retaliation."
To which we have only to reply, that General Butler may be a villain, but that he is certainly
not a fool. Nobody doubts that he has military or civil aspirations for the future, and, for
such ends, if for nothing else, wishes the approbation of his loyal countrymen. Now Mr. Dicey
testifies to "the almost morbid sentiment of Americans in the Free States with regard to women":
he tells us that "it renders them ridiculously susceptible to female influences"; also, that
this same "sentiment" among us "protects women from the natural consequences of their own misconduct."
These characteristics of his countrymen are just as familiar to General Butler as they are
patent to Mr. Dicey; and we hold it to be simply incredible that one who is at least a very
shrewd politician used language which he intended should convey a meaning that must necessarily
consign his future career to privacy and infamy. It is perhaps not wonderful that men who have
deluged their country in blood, to propagate a system which consigns unborn millions to enforced
harlotry, should put an evil interpretation upon the indignant stigma applied to acts which,
in civilized States, come from one class of women, and are designed for one purpose. Neither
is it very astonishing that such persons as have been employed to pump the New-York sewers
into the cloaca maxima which sets towards us from Printing-House Square should share the sensitive
chastity of the slave-masters whose work they are put to do. But it is passing strange that
a gentleman so fair and reasonable as Mr. Dicey, one so appreciative of the moral tone which
Northern society demands of its representatives, should join in an accusation whose absurdity
is only lost in its infinite offence.

There are small inaccuracies, as well as occasional instances of carelessness or repetition,
in these volumes, which, had circumstances allowed time for revision, might have been avoided.
It would require the "Pathfinder" himself to discover "Fremont Street" in the city where we
write; the "Courier" is not "the most largely circulated of any Boston paper"; and our Ex-Mayor
"Whiteman" requires no fanciful orthography to free his name from the obloquy of an over-devotion
to the interests of colored citizens. These are local illustrations of mistakes which are excusable
in view of the commendable expedition with which the work was issued,--for, in the late crisis
of our affairs, an Englishman who had any good words to give us fulfilled the proverb by giving
twice in giving quickly. But, whatever trifling details might be subjected to criticism, the
total impression of what Mr. Dicey has written bears honorable testimony to the accuracy of
his observation, as well as to his powers of comparison and judgment.

As has been already remarked, we cannot be blind to the fact that our only supporters in England
are those men who recognize at the heart of our contest that genuine principle of Liberty which
is not to be limited to caste or to race. And it is only by hastening to justify their confidence
that we can win to our cause the great people they address. If we cannot gain the national
sympathy of England, we must do without the true sympathy of any nation. It was, indeed, remarked
by De Tocqueville, that, "in the eyes of the English, the cause which is most useful to England
is always the cause of justice." But the rare insight of the philosopher assigns the phenomenon,
not to a political Machiavelism, but to a "laudable desire to connect the actions of one's
country with something more stable than interest." The English have a peculiar gift of fixing
their whole attention upon certain traits or single circumstances which they desire to see.
We doubt not that a portion of their sympathy with the energy and endurance of those in arms
against their country is estimable according to its light. But as the dignity of our mission
in this struggle becomes more and more apparent, the moral intelligence of England will be
forced to unite itself with the Government of the United States. Let that day come when it
will, posterity will remember its obligations to those Englishmen who did so much to avert
the hideous calamity of a war between the two liberal powers of the world. And to us of this
present generation it is grateful to know that our brave and generous young men have not died
wholly unrecognized in the land of their ancestors. Mill, Ellison, Hughes,--what need to name
the rest?--have stood up to report them and their cause aright to the unsatisfied: in which
roll of the honorable and honored we are glad to write the name of Edward Dicey.

If pure benevolence was ever organized and utilized into beneficence, the name of the institution
is the Sanitary Commission. It is a standing answer to Samson's riddle, "Out of the strong
came forth sweetness." Out of the very depths of the agony of this cruel and bloody war springs
this beautiful system, built of the noblest and divinest attributes of the human soul. Amidst
all the heroism of daring and enduring which this war has developed, amidst all the magnanimity
of which it has shown the race capable, the daring, the endurance, and the greatness of soul
which have been discovered among the men and women who have given their lives to this work
shine as brightly as any on the battle-field,--in some respects even more brightly. They have
not the bray of trumpets nor the clash of swords to rouse enthusiasm, nor will the land ever
resound with their victories. Theirs is the dark and painful side, the menial and hidden side,
but made light and lovely by the spirit that shines in and through it all. Glimpses of this
agency are familiar to our people; but not till the history of its inception, progress, and
results is calmly and adequately written out and spread before the public will any idea be
formed of the magnitude and importance of the work which it has done. Nor even then.

