Now, to deal with this vast hostile array, if only the city will determine to sally out en
masse to protect her rural districts, the prospect is fair. Under God, our troopers, if properly
cared for, are the finer men; our infantry of the line are no less numerous, and as regards
physique, if it comes to that, not one whit inferior, while in reference to moral qualities,
they are more susceptible to the spur of a noble ambition, if only under God's will they be
correctly trained. Or again, as touching pride of ancestry, what have Athenians to fear as
against Boeotians on that score? (3)

 (3) See "Mem." III. v. 3, where it is contended that in pride of
    ancestry Athenians can hold their own against Boeotians.

But suppose the city of Athens determine to betake herself to her navy, as in the old days
when the Lacedaemonians, leagued with the rest of Hellas, brought invasion; (4) and is content
once more simply to protect her walls through thick and thin. As to protecting what lies outside
the city wall she looks to her cavalry for that; and single-handed her troopers must do desperate
encounter against the united forces of the enemy. I say, under these circumstances, we shall
need in the first place the strong support of Heaven; and in the second place, well will it
be for us if our cavalry commander prove himself a consummate officer. (5) Indeed, he will
have need of large wisdom to deal with a force so vastly superior in numbers, and of enterprise
to strike when the critical moment comes.

 (4) See Thuc. ii. 13, 14, 22, etc., and in particular iv. 95,
    Hippocrates' speech before the battle of Delium, 424 B.C.

 (5) A "parfait marechal."

He must also, as it appears to me, be capable of great physical endurance; (6) since clearly,
if he has to run full tilt against an armament present, as we picture, in such force that not
even our whole state cares to cope with it, it is plain he must accept whatever fate is due,
where might is right, himself unable to retaliate.

 (6) So Jason, "Hell." VI. i. 4.

If, on the contrary, he elect to guard the territory outside the walls (7) with a number just
sufficient to keep a look-out on the enemy, and to withdraw into safe quarters from a distance
whatever needs protection--a small number, be it observed, is just as capable of vedette duty,
as well able, say, to scan the distant horizon, as a large; and by the same token men with
no great confidence in themselves or in their horses are not ill-qualified to guard, or withdraw
within shelter (8) the property of friends; since fear, as the proverb has it, makes a shrewd
watchman. The proposal, therefore, to select from these a corps of observation will most likely
prove true strategy. But what then of the residue not needed for outpost duty? If any one imagines
he has got an armament, he will find it miserably small, and lacking in every qualification
necessary to risk an open encounter.

 (7) Or, "His better plan would be to."

 (8) Reading {anakhorizein}. Cf. "Cyrop." II. ii. 8; "Anab." V. ii. 10;
    or if {anakhorein eis}, transl. "or retire into safe quarters."
    See "Hell." IV. vi. 44.

But let him make up his mind to employ it in guerilla war, and he will find the force quite
competent for that, I warrant. His business, so at least it seems to me, will be to keep his
men perpetually in readiness to strike a blow, and without exposing himself, to play sentinel,
waiting for any false move on the part of the hostile armament. And it is a way with soldiers,
bear in mind, the more numerous they are, the more blunders they commit. They must needs scatter
of set purpose (9) in search of provisions; or through the disorder incidental to a march,
some will advance and others lag behind, beyond a proper limit. Blunders like these, then,
our hipparch must not let pass unpunished  (unless he wishes the whole of Attica to become
a gigantic camp); (10) keeping his single point steadily in view, that when he strikes a blow
he must be expeditious and retire before the main body has time to rally to the rescue.

 (9) {epimeleia}. Cf. "Cyrop." V. iii. 47.

 (10) Lit. "or else the whole of Attica will be one encampment." As at
    the date of the fortification of Decelea  (413 B.C.), which
    permanently commanded the whole country. See Thuc. vii. 27. Al.
    Courier, "autrement vous n'avez plus de camp, ou pour mieux dire,
    tout le pays devient votre camp."

Again, it frequently happens on the march, that an army will get into roads where numbers are
no advantage. Again, in the passage of rivers, defiles, and the like, it is possible for a
general with a head on his shoulders to hang on the heels of an enemy in security, and to determine
with precision (11) the exact number of the enemy he will care to deal with. Occasionally the
fine chance occurs to attack the foe while encamping or breakfasting or supping, or as the
men turn out of bed: seasons at which the soldier is apt to be unharnessed--the hoplite for
a shorter, the cavalry trooper for a longer period. (12)

 (11) See "Anab." II. v. 18; "Cyrop." III. iii. 47; IV. i. 18.
    {tamieusasthai}, "with the precision of a controller."

 (12) Cf. "Hell." II. iv. 6; VII. i. 16.

As to vedettes and advanced outposts, you should never cease planning and plotting against
them. For these in their turn, as a rule, are apt to consist of small numbers, and are sometimes
posted at a great distance from their own main body. But if after all it turns out that the
enemy are well on their guard against all such attempts, then, God helping, it would be a feat
of arms to steal into the enemy's country, first making it your business to ascertain (13)
his defences, the number of men at this, that, and the other point, and how they are distributed
throughout the country. For there is no booty so splendid as an outpost so overmastered; and
these frontier outposts are especially prone to be deceived, with their propensity to give
chase to any small body they set eyes on, regarding that as their peculiar function. You will
have to see, however, in retiring that your line of retreat is not right into the jaws of the
enemy's reliefs hastening to the scene of action.

 (13) Or, "having first studied." Cf. "Mem." III. vi. 10.

VIII

It stands to reason, however, that in order to be able to inflict real damage upon a greatly
superior force, the weaker combatant must possess such a moral superiority over the other as
shall enable him to appear in the position of an expert, trained in all the feats of cavalry
performance in the field, and leave his enemy to play the part of raw recruits or amateurs. (1)

 (1) Cf. "Cyrop." I. v. 11; "Mem." III. vii. 7.

And this end may be secured primarily on this wise: those who are to form your guerilla bands
(2) must be so hardened and inured to the saddle that they are capable of undergoing all the
toils of a campaign. (3) That a squadron  (and I speak of horse and man alike) should enter
these lists in careless, disorderly fashion suggests the idea of a troop of women stepping
into the arena to cope with male antagonists.

 (2) Or, add, "for buccaneers and free-lances you must be."

 (3) Lit. "every toil a soldier can encounter."

