Transcriber's Note: Title added.

       *       *       *       *       *

              BIRDS ILLUSTRATED BY COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY

              Vol.

       *       *       *       *       *

 "The KING can do no wrong"

                      MONARCH
                       BICYCLES
                       ARE
                       FAULTLESS

                      MONARCH
                   CYCLE MF'G CO.
                 CHICAGO, NEW YORK,
                      LONDON.

   #Every Teacher#

       finds daily in her work
       some new and perplexing
       problem to solve.

   With

   The Teacher's
        Practical Library

     at hand for consultation the
     answer may always be found.

 It will cost you nothing

     to have this library placed
     upon your table for inspection.

     Send postal-card for particulars,
     mentioning this paper.

                       #AGENTS WANTED#

 #D. APPLETON & CO., Publishers#
      NEW YORK--CHICAGO.

 Buy Only the Best Presents for Children.
      THE FINEST BLACKBOARD MADE.

 IMPROVED

 Indispensable as an element for the general
 education of the children. This is not a toy,
 but an Educator for the home. Contains Sixteen
 Lessons on heavy cardboard, Writing, Drawing,
 Marking-letters, Music, Animal Forms, etc.
 Frame made of oak, 4 feet high and 2 feet wide.
 The Board is reversible and can be used on both
 sides. Has a desk attachment for writing. Weighs
 10 pounds, packed for shipment.

 #Price $3.50#                   Agents Wanted.
                            Send for Agents Prices.

      Please mention "BIRDS" when you write to Advertisers.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITTLE BOY BLUE.

Boys and girls, don't you think that is a pretty name? I came from the warm south, where I
went last winter, to tell you that Springtime is nearly here.

When I sing, the buds and flowers and grass all begin to whisper to one another, "Springtime
is coming for we heard the Bluebird say so," and then they peep out to see the warm sunshine.
I perch beside them and tell them of my long journey from the south and how I knew just when
to tell them to come out of their warm winter cradles. I am of the same blue color as the violet
that shows her pretty face when I sing, "Summer is coming, and Springtime is here."

I do not like the cities for they are black and noisy and full of those troublesome birds called
English Sparrows. I take my pretty mate and out in the beautiful country we find a home. We
build a nest of twigs, grass and hair, in a box that the farmer puts up for us near his barn.

Sometimes we build in a hole in some old tree and soon there are tiny eggs in the nest. I sing
to my mate and to the good people who own the barn. I heard the farmer say one day, "Isn't
it nice to hear the Bluebird sing? He must be very happy." And I am, too, for by this time
there are four or five little ones in the nest.

Little Bluebirds are like little boys--they are always hungry. We work hard to find enough
for them to eat. We feed them nice fat worms and bugs, and when their little wings are strong
enough, we teach them how to fly. Soon they are large enough to hunt their own food, and can
take care of themselves.

The summer passes, and when we feel the breath of winter we go south again, for we do not like
the cold.

       *       *       *

THE BLUE BIRD.

    "Dear little snow-drop!

THE BLUE BIRD.      E. E. R.

       *       *       *

Like a bit of sky this little harbinger of spring appears, as we see him and his mate househunting
in early March. Oftentimes he makes his appearance as early as the middle of February, when
his attractive note is heard long before he himself is seen. He is one of the last to leave
us, and although the month of November is usually chosen by him as the fitting time for departure
to a milder clime, his plaintive note is quite commonly heard on pleasant days throughout the
winter season, and a few of the braver and hardier ones never entirely desert us. The Robin
and the Blue Bird are tenderly associated in the memories of most persons whose childhood was
passed on a farm or in the country village. Before the advent of the English Sparrow, the Blue
Bird was sure to be the first to occupy and the last to defend the little box prepared for
his return, appearing in his blue jacket somewhat in advance of the plainly habited female,
who on her arrival quite often found a habitation selected and ready for her acceptance, should
he find favor in her sight. And then he becomes a most devoted husband and father, sitting
by the nest and warbling with earnest affection his exquisite tune, and occasionally flying
away in search of food for his mate and nestlings.

The Blue Bird rears two broods in the season, and, should the weather be mild, even three.
His nest contains three eggs.

In the spring and summer when he is happy and gay, his song is extremely soft and agreeable,
while it grows very mournful and plaintive as cold weather approaches. He is mild of temper,
and a peaceable and harmless neighbor, setting a fine example of amiability to his feathered
friends. In the early spring, however, he wages war against robins, wrens, swallows, and other
birds whose habitations are of a kind to take his fancy. The poor wrens were in despair and
were forced to look for other quarters."

THE SWALLOW.

    "Come, summer visitant, attach
      To my reedroof thy nest of clay,
    And let my ear thy music catch,
    Low twitting underneath the thatch,
      At the gray dawn of day."

Sure harbingers of spring are the Swallows. They are very common birds, and frequent, as a
rule, the cultivated lands in the neighborhood of water, showing a decided preference for the
habitations of man. "How gracefully the swallows fly! See them coursing over the daisy-bespangled
grass fields; now they skim just over the blades of grass, and then with a rapid stroke of
their long wings mount into the air and come hovering above your head, displaying their rich
white and chestnut plumage to perfection. Now they chase each other for very joyfulness, uttering
their sharp twittering notes; then they hover with expanded wings like miniature Kestrels,
or dart downwards with the velocity of the sparrowhawk; anon they flit rapidly over the neighboring
pool, occasionally dipping themselves in its calm and placid waters, and leaving a long train
of rings marking their varied course. How easily they turn, or glide over the surrounding hedges,
never resting, never weary, and defying the eye to trace them in the infinite turnings and
twistings of their rapid shooting flight. You frequently see them glide rapidly near the ground,
and then with a sidelong motion mount aloft, to dart downwards like an animated meteor, their
plumage glowing in the light with metallic splendor, and the row of white spots on the tail
contrasting beautifully with the darker plumage."

The Swallow is considered a life-paired species, and returns to its nesting site of the previous
season, building a new nest close to the old one. His nest is found in barns and outhouses,
upon the beams of wood which support the roof, or in any place which assures protection to
the young birds. It is cup-shaped and artfully moulded of bits of mud. Grass and feathers are
used for the lining. "The nest completed, five or six eggs are deposited. They are of a pure
white color, with deep rich brown blotches and spots, notably at the larger end, round which
they often form a zone or belt." The sitting bird is fed by her mate.

The young Swallow is distinguished from the mature birds by the absence of the elongated tail
feathers, which are a mark of maturity alone. His food is composed entirely of insects. Swallows
are on the wing fully sixteen hours, and the greater part of the time making terrible havoc
amongst the millions of insects which infest the air. It is said that when the Swallow is seen
flying high in the heavens, it is a never failing indication of fine weather.

A pair of Swallows on arriving at their nesting place of the preceding Summer found their nest
occupied by a Sparrow, who kept the poor birds at a distance by pecking at them with his strong
beak whenever they attempted to dislodge him. Wearied and hopeless of regaining possession
of their property, they at last hit upon a plan which effectually punished the intruder. One
morning they appeared with a few more Swallows--their mouths filled with a supply of tempered
clay--and, by their joint efforts in a short time actually plastered up the entrance to the
hole, thus barring the Sparrow from the home which he had stolen from the Swallows.

THE BROWN THRUSH.

    "However the world goes ill,
      The Thrushes still sing in it."

The Mocking-bird of the North, as the Brown Thrush has been called, arrives in the Eastern
and Middle States about the 10th of May, at which season he may be seen, perched on the highest
twig of a hedge, or on the topmost branch of a tree, singing his loud and welcome song, that
may be heard a distance of half a mile. The favorite haunt of the Brown Thrush, however, is
amongst the bright and glossy foliage of the evergreens. "There they delight to hide, although
not so shy and retiring as the Blackbird; there they build their nests in greatest numbers,
amongst the perennial foliage, and there they draw at nightfall to repose in warmth and safety."
The Brown Thrasher sings chiefly just after sunrise and before sunset, but may be heard singing
at intervals during the day. His food consists of wild fruits, such as blackberries and raspberries,
snails, worms, slugs and grubs. He also obtains much of his food amongst the withered leaves
and marshy places of the woods and shrubberies which he frequents. Few birds possess a more
varied melody. His notes are almost endless in variety, each note seemingly uttered at the
caprice of the bird, without any perceptible approach to order.

The site of the Thrush's nest is a varied one, in the hedgerows, under a fallen tree or fence-rail;
far up in the branches of stately trees, or amongst the ivy growing up their trunks. The nest
is composed of the small dead twigs of trees, lined with the fine fibers of roots. From three
to five eggs are deposited, and are hatched in about twelve days. They have a greenish background,
thickly spotted with light brown, giving the whole egg a brownish appearance.

The Brown Thrush leaves the Eastern and Middle States, on his migration South, late in September,
remaining until the following May.

       *       *       *

THE THRUSH'S NEST.

THE BROWN THRUSH.

Dear Readers:

My cousin Robin Redbreast told me that he wrote you a letter last month and sent it with his
picture. How did you like it? He is a pretty bird--Cousin Robin--and everybody likes him. But
I must tell you something of myself.

Folks call me by different names--some of them nicknames, too.

The cutest one of all is Brown Thrasher. I wonder if you know why they call me Thrasher. If
you don't, ask some one. It is really funny.

Some people think Cousin Robin is the sweetest singer of our family, but a great many like
my song just as well.

Early in the morning I sing among the bushes, but later in the day you will always find me
in the very top of a tree and it is then I sing my best.

Do you know what I say in my song? Well, if I am near a farmer while he is planting, I say:
"Drop it, drop it--cover it up, cover it up--pull it up, pull it up, pull it up."

One thing I very seldom do and that is, sing when near my nest. Maybe you can tell why. I'm
not very far from my nest now. I just came down to the stream to get a drink and am watching
that boy on the other side of the stream. Do you see him?

One dear lady who loves birds has said some very nice things about me in a book called "Bird
Ways." Another lady has written a beautiful poem about my singing. Ask your mamma or teacher
the names of these ladies.

THE JAPAN PHEASANT.

Originally the Pheasant was an inhabitant of Asia Minor but has been by degrees introduced
into many countries, where its beauty of form, plumage, and the delicacy of its flesh made
it a welcome visitor. The Japan Pheasant is a very beautiful species, about which little is
known in its wild state, but in captivity it is pugnacious. It requires much shelter and plenty
of food, and the breed is to some degree artificially kept up by the hatching of eggs under
domestic hens and feeding them in the coop like ordinary chickens, until they are old and strong
enough to get their own living.

The food of this bird is extremely varied. When young it is generally fed on ants' eggs, maggots,
grits, and similar food, but when it is full grown it is possessed of an accommodating appetite
and will eat many kinds of seeds, roots, and leaves. It will also eat beans, peas, acorns,
berries, and has even been known to eat the ivy leaf, as well as the berry.

This Pheasant loves the ground, runs with great speed, and always prefers to trust to its legs
rather than to its wings. It is crafty, and when alarmed it slips quickly out of sight behind
a bush or through a hedge, and then runs away with astonishing rapidity, always remaining under
cover until it reaches some spot where it deems itself safe. The male is not domestic, passing
an independent life during a part of the year and associating with others of its own sex during
the rest of the season.

The nest is very rude, being merely a heap of leaves and grass on the ground, with a very slight
depression. The eggs are numerous, about eleven or twelve, and olive brown in color. In total
length, though they vary considerably, the full grown male is about three feet. The female
is smaller in size than her mate, and her length a foot less.

The Japan Pheasant is not a particularly interesting bird aside from his beauty, which is indeed
brilliant, there being few of the species more attractive.

THE FLICKER.

A great variety of names does this bird possess. It is commonly known as the Golden Winged
Woodpecker, Yellow-shafted Flicker, Yellow Hammer, and less often as High-hole or High-holer,
Wake-up, etc. In suitable localities throughout the United States and the southern parts of
Canada, the Flicker is a very common bird, and few species are more generally known. "It is
one of the most sociable of our Woodpeckers, and is apparently always on good terms with its
neighbors. It usually arrives in April, occasionally even in March, the males preceding the
females a few days, and as soon as the latter appear one can hear their voices in all directions."

The Flicker is an ardent wooer. It is an exceedingly interesting and amusing sight to see a
couple of males paying their addresses to a coy and coquettish female; the apparent shyness
of the suitors as they sidle up to her and as quickly retreat again, the shy glances given
as one peeps from behind a limb watching the other--playing bo-peep--seem very human, and "I
have seen," says an observer, "few more amusing performances than the courtship of a pair of
these birds." The defeated suitor takes his rejection quite philosophically, and retreats in
a dignified manner, probably to make other trials elsewhere. Few birds deserve our good will
more than the Flicker. He is exceedingly useful, destroying multitudes of grubs, larvæ, and
worms. He loves berries and fruit but the damage he does to cultivated fruit is very trifling.

The Flicker begins to build its nest about two weeks after the bird arrives from the south.
It prefers open country, interspersed with groves and orchards, to nest in. Any old stump,
or partly decayed limb of a tree, along the banks of a creek, beside a country road, or in
an old orchard, will answer the purpose. Soft wood trees seem to be preferred, however. In
the prairie states it occasionally selects strange nesting sites. It has been known to chisel
through the weather boarding of a dwelling house, barns, and other buildings, and to nest in
the hollow space between this and the cross beams; its nests have also been found in gate posts,
in church towers, and in burrows of Kingfishers and bank swallows, in perpendicular banks of
streams. One of the most peculiar sites of his selection is described by William A. Bryant
as follows: "On a small hill, a quarter of a mile distant from any home, stood a hay stack
which had been placed there two years previously. The owner, during the winter of 1889-90,
had cut the stack through the middle and hauled away one portion, leaving the other standing,
with the end smoothly trimmed. The following spring I noticed a pair of flickers about the
stack showing signs of wanting to make it a fixed habitation. One morning a few days later
I was amused at the efforts of one of the pair. It was clinging to the perpendicular end of
the stack and throwing out clipped hay at a rate to defy competition. This work continued for
a week, and in that time the pair had excavated a cavity twenty inches in depth. They remained
in the vicinity until autumn. During the winter the remainder of the stack was removed. They
returned the following spring, and, after a brief sojourn, departed for parts unknown."

From five to nine eggs are generally laid. They are glossy white in color, and when fresh appear
as if enameled.

The young are able to leave the nest in about sixteen days; they crawl about on the limbs of
the tree for a couple of days before they venture to fly, and return to the nest at night.

THE BOBOLINK.

No American ornithologist omits mention of the Bobolink, and naturalists generally have described
him under one of the many names by which he is known. In some States he is called the Rice
Bird, in others Reed Bird, the Rice or Reed Bunting, while his more familiar title, throughout
the greater part of America, is Bobolink, or Bobolinkum. In Jamaica, where he gets very fat
during his winter stay, he is called the Butter Bird. His title of Rice Troopial is earned
by the depredations which he annually makes upon the rice crops, though his food "is by no
means restricted to that seed, but consists in a large degree of insects, grubs, and various
wild grasses." A migratory bird, residing during the winter in the southern parts of America,
he returns in vast multitudes northward in the early Spring. According to Wilson, their course
of migration is as follows: "In April, or very early in May, the Rice Buntings, male and female,
arrive within the southern boundaries of the United States, and are seen around the town of
Savannah, Georgia, sometimes in separate parties of males and females, but more generally promiscuously.
They remain there but a short time, and about the middle of May make their appearance in the
lower part of Pennsylvania. While here the males are extremely gay and full of song, frequenting
meadows, newly plowed fields, sides of creeks, rivers, and watery places, feeding on May flies
and caterpillars, of which they destroy great quantities. In their passage, however, through
Virginia at this season, they do great damage to the early wheat and barley while in their
milky state. About the 20th of May they disappear on their way to the North. Nearly at the
same time they arrive in the State of New York, spread over the whole of the New England States,
as far as the river St. Lawrence, and from Lake Ontario to the sea. In all of these places
they remain during the Summer, building their nests and rearing their young."

The Bobolink's song is a peculiar one, varying greatly with the occasion. As he flys southward,
his cry is a kind of clinking note; but the love song addressed to his mate is voluble and
fervent. It has been said that if you should strike the keys of a pianoforte haphazard, the
higher and the lower singly very quickly, you might have some idea of the Bobolink's notes.
In the month of June he gradually changes his pretty, attractive dress and puts on one very
like the females, which is of a plain rusty brown, and is not reassumed until the next season
of nesting. The two parent birds in the plate represent the change from the dark plumage in
which the bird is commonly known in the North as the Bobolink, to the dress of yellowish brown
by which it is known throughout the South as the Rice or Reed Bird.

His nest, small and a plain one, too, is built on the ground by his industrious little wife.
The inside is warmly lined with soft fibers of whatever may be nearest at hand. Five pretty
white eggs, spotted all over with brown are laid, and as soon

    "As the little ones chip the shell
    And five wide mouths are ready for food,
    'Robert of Lincoln' bestirs him well,
    Gathering seeds for this hungry brood."

BOBOLINK.

Other birds may like to travel alone, but when jolly Mr. Bobolink and his quiet little wife
come from the South, where they have spent the winter, they come with a large party of friends.
When South, they eat so much rice that the people call them Rice Birds. When they come North,
they enjoy eating wheat, barley, oats and insects.

Mr. and Mrs. Bobolink build their simple little nest of grasses in some field. It is hard to
find on the ground, for it looks just like dry grass. Mrs. Bobolink wears a dull dress, so
she cannot be seen when she is sitting on the precious eggs. She does not sing a note while
caring for the eggs. Why do you think that is?

Mr. Bob-Linkum does not wear a sober dress, as you can see by his picture. He does not need
to be hidden. He is just as jolly as he looks. Shall I tell you how he amuses his mate while
she is sitting? He springs from the dew-wet grass with a sound like peals of merry laughter.
He frolics from reed to post, singing as if his little heart would burst with joy.

Don't you think Mr. and Mrs. Bobolink look happy in the picture? They have raised their family
of five. Four of their children have gone to look for food; one of them--he must surely be
the baby--would rather stay with his mamma and papa. Which one does he look like?

Many birds are quiet at noon and in the afternoon. A flock of Bobolinks can be heard singing
almost all day long. The song is full of high notes and low, soft notes and loud, all sung
rapidly. It is as gay and bright as the birds themselves, who flit about playfully as they
sing. You will feel like laughing as merrily as they sing when you hear it some day.

THE BLUE BIRD.

    "Drifting down the first warm wind
      That thrills the earliest days of spring,
    The Bluebird seeks our maple groves
      And charms them into tasselling."

    "He sings, and his is Nature's voice--
      A gush of melody sincere
    From that great fount of harmony
      Which thaws and runs when Spring is here."

    "Short is his song, but strangely sweet
      To ears aweary of the low
    Dull tramps of Winter's sullen feet,
      Sandalled in ice and muffled in snow."
                    FROM "THE BIRDS OF KILLINGSWORTH."

THE CROW.

Caw! Caw! Caw! little boys and girls. Caw! Caw! Caw! Just look at my coat of feathers. See
how black and glossy it is. Do you wonder I am proud of it?

Perhaps you think I look very solemn and wise, and not at all as if I cared to play games.
I do, though; and one of the games I like best is hide-and-seek. I play it with the farmer
in the spring. He hides, in the rich, brown earth, golden kernels of corn. Surely he does it
because he knows I like it, for sometimes he puts up a stick all dressed like a man to show
where the corn is hidden. Sometimes I push my bill down into the earth to find the corn, and
at other times I wait until tiny green leaves begin to show above the ground, and then I get
my breakfast without much trouble. I wonder if the farmer enjoys this game as much as I do.
I help him, too, by eating worms and insects.

During the spring and summer I live in my nest on the top of a very high tree. It is built
of sticks and grasses and straw and string and anything else I can pick up. But in the fall,
I and all my relations and friends live together in great roosts or rookeries. What good times
we do have--hunting all day for food and talking all night. Wouldn't you like to be with us?

The farmer who lives in the house over there went to the mill to-day with a load of corn.

One of the ears dropped out of the wagon and it didn't take me long to find it. I have eaten
all I can possibly hold and am wondering now what is the best thing to do. If you were in my
place would you leave it here and not tell anybody and come back to-morrow and finish it? Or
would you fly off and get Mrs. Crow and some of the children to come and finish it? I believe
I'll fly and get them. Good-bye.

Caw! Caw! Caw!

THE COMMON CROW.

    "The crow doth sing as merry as the lark,
     When neither is attended."

Few birds have more interesting characteristics than the Common Crow, being, in many of his
actions, very like the Raven, especially in his love for carrion. Like the Raven, he has been
known to attack game, although his inferior size forces him to call to his assistance the aid
of his fellows to cope with larger creatures. Rabbits and hares are frequently the prey of
this bird which pounces on them as they steal abroad to feed. His food consists of reptiles,
frogs, and lizards; he is a plunderer of other birds' nests. On the seashore he finds crabs,
shrimps and inhabited shells, which he ingeniously cracks by flying with them to a great height
and letting them fall upon a convenient rock.

The crow is seen in single pairs or in little bands of four or five. In the autumn evenings,
however, they assemble in considerable flocks before going to roost and make a wonderful chattering,
as if comparing notes of the events of the day.

The nest of the Crow is placed in some tree remote from habitations of other birds. Although
large and very conspicuous at a distance, it is fixed upon one of the topmost branches quite
out of reach of the hand of the adventurous urchin who longs to secure its contents. It is
loosely made and saucer shaped. Sticks and softer substances are used to construct it, and
it is lined with hair and fibrous roots. Very recently a thrifty and intelligent Crow built
for itself a summer residence in an airy tree near Bombay, the material used being gold, silver,
and steel spectacle frames, which the bird had stolen from an optician of that city. Eighty-four
frames had been used for this purpose, and they were so ingeniously woven together that the
nest was quite a work of art. The eggs are variable, or rather individual, in their markings,
and even in their size. The Crow rarely uses the same nest twice, although he frequently repairs
to the same locality from year to year. He is remarkable for his attachment to his mate and
young, surpassing the Fawn and Turtle Dove in conjugal courtesy.

The Somali Arabs bear a deadly hatred toward the Crow. The origin of their detestation is the
superstition that during the flight of Mohammed from his enemies, he hid himself in a cave,
where he was perceived by the Crow, at that time a bird of light plumage, who, when he saw
the pursuers approaching the spot, perched above Mohammed's hiding place, and screamed, "Ghar!
Ghar!" (cave! cave!) so as to indicate the place of concealment. His enemies, however, did
not understand the bird, and passed on, and Mohammed, when he came out of the cave, clothed
the Crow in perpetual black, and commanded him to cry "Ghar" as long as Crows should live.

And he lives to a good old age. Instances are not rare where he has attained to half a century,
without great loss of activity or failure of sight.

At Red Bank, a few miles northeast of Cincinnati, on the Little Miami River, in the bottoms,
large flocks of Crows congregate the year around. A few miles away, high upon Walnut Hills,
is a Crow roost, and in the late afternoons the Crows, singly, in pairs, and in flocks, are
seen on the wing, flying heavily, with full crops, on the way to the roost, from which they
descend in the early morning, crying "Caw! Caw!" to the fields of the newly planted, growing,
or matured corn, or corn stacks, as the season may provide.

THE RETURN OF THE BIRDS.

The return of the birds to their real home in the North, where they build their nests and rear
their young, is regarded by all genuine lovers of earth's messengers of gladness and gayety
as one of the most interesting and poetical of annual occurrences. The naturalist, who notes
the very day of each arrival, in order that he may verify former observation or add to his
material gathered for a new work, does not necessarily anticipate with greater pleasure this
event than do many whose lives are brightened by the coming of the friends of their youth,
who alone of early companions do not change. First of all--and ever the same delightful warbler--the
Bluebird, who, in 1895, did not appear at all in many localities, though here in considerable
numbers last year, betrays himself. Sometimes he is here a little earlier, and must keep his
courage up until the cold snap is over and the snow is gone. With his first utterance the spell
of winter is broken, and the remembrance of it afar off. Then appears the Woodpecker in great
variety, the Flicker usually arriving first.

Few perhaps reflect upon the difficulties encountered by the birds themselves in their returning
migrations. A voyager sometimes meets with many of our common birds far out at sea. Such wanderers,
it is said, when suddenly overtaken by a fog, completely lose their sense of direction and
become hopelessly lost. Humming birds, those delicately organized, glittering gems, are among
the most common of the land species seen at sea.

The present season has been quite favorable to the protection of birds. A very competent observer
says that not all of the birds migrated this winter. He recently visited a farm less than an
hour's ride from Chicago, where he found the old place, as he relates it, "chucked full of
Robins, Blackbirds, and Woodpeckers," and others unknown to him. From this he inferred they
would have been in Florida had indications predicted a severe winter. The trees of the south
parks of Chicago, and those in suburban places, have had, darting through their branches during
the months of December and January, nearly as many members of the Woodpecker tribe as were
found there during the mating season in May last.

Alas, that the Robin will visit us in diminished numbers in the approaching spring. He has
not been so common for a year or two as he was formerly, for the reason that the Robins died
by thousands of starvation, owing to the freezing of their food supply in Tennessee during
the protracted cold weather in the winter of 1895. It is indeed sad that this good Samaritan
among birds should be defenseless against the severity of Nature, the common mother of us all.
Nevertheless the return of the birds, in myriads or in single pairs, will be welcomed more
and more, year by year, as intelligent love and appreciation of them shall possess the popular
mind.

THE BLACK TERN.

"The Tern," says Mr. F. M. Woodruff, of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, "is the only representative
of the long-winged swimmers which commonly nests with us on our inland fresh water marshes,
arriving early in May in its brooding plumage of sooty black. The color changes in the autumn
to white, and a number of the adult birds may be found, in the latter part of July, dotted
and streaked here and there with white. On the first of June, 1891, I found a large colony
of Black Terns nesting on Hyde Lake, Cook County, Illinois. As I approached the marsh a few
birds were seen flying high in the air, and, as I neared the nesting site, the flying birds
gave notes of alarm, and presently the air was filled with the graceful forms of this beautiful
little bird. They circled about me, darting down to within a few feet of my head, constantly
uttering a harsh, screaming cry. As the eggs are laid upon the bare ground, which the brownish
and blackish markings so closely resemble, I was at first unable to find the nests, and discovered
that the only way to locate them was to stand quietly and watch the birds. When the Tern is
passing over the nest it checks its flight, and poises for a moment on quivering wings. By
keeping my eyes on this spot I found the nest with very little trouble. The complement of eggs,
when the bird has not been disturbed, is usually three. These are laid in a saucer shaped structure
of dead vegetation, which is scraped together, from the surface of the wet, boggy ground. The
bird figured in the plate had placed its nest on the edge of an old muskrat house, and my attention
was attracted to it by the fact that upon the edge of the rat house, where it had climbed to
rest itself, was the body of a young dabchick, or piedbilled grebe, scarcely two and one-half
inches long, and not twenty-four hours out of the egg, a beautiful little ball of blackish
down, striped with brown and white. From the latter part of July to the middle of August large
flocks of Black Terns may be seen on the shores of our larger lakes on their annual migration
southward."

The Rev. P. B. Peabody, in alluding to his observation of the nests of the Tern, says: "Amid
this floating sea of aquatic nests I saw an unusual number of well constructed homes of the
Tern. Among these was one that I count a perfect nest. It rested on the perfectly flat foundation
of a small decayed rat house, which was about fourteen inches in diameter. The nest, in form,
is a truncated cone (barring the cavity), was about eight inches high and ten inches in diameter.
The hollow--quite shallow--was about seven inches across, being thus unusually large. The whole
was built up of bits of rushes, carried to the spot, these being quite uniform in length--about
four inches." After daily observation of the Tern, during which time he added much to his knowledge
of the bird, he pertinently asks: "Who shall say how many traits and habits yet unknown may
be discovered through patient watching of community-breeding birds, by men enjoying more of
leisure for such delightful studies than often falls to the lot of most of us who have bread
and butter to earn and a tiny part of the world's work to finish?"

THE MEADOW LARK.

