"I congratulate you upon the growth of your Association, and the excellent political work it
is doing in this district;" i.e., "Know nothing about it, except what the pasty-faced Secretary
has just crammed me with, but must butter them a bit."

"Your admirable Member, whose voice we hear only too seldom in the House;" i.e., "A silent
'stick' whose silence is his only merit."

"No words of mine are necessary to commend this vote of thanks to your good will. You all know
your Chairman;" i.e., How long will that stammering idiot be allowed to preside at these meetings?

PARLIAMENTARY.

"Of course I withdraw;" i.e., "Of course I don't."

"Of course, Sir, I bow to your ruling;" i.e., "I'm sure you're wrong."

"Of course I accept the Honourable Gentleman's explanation;" i.e., "Can't tell him he's a liar!"

"When I entered the House to-night it was with no thought of being called upon to address you;"
i.e., "I should have been mad if I'd missed the chance of letting off my long-stored rhetorical
fireworks!"

AT A DANCE.

"May I have the pleasure?" i.e., "Wish to goodness she'd refuse, but no such luck!"

"Delighted!" i.e., "I'd as soon dance with a tipsy Mammoth."

"Awfully sorry, but I haven't one dance left;" i.e., "I've three, but if I'd thirty, he shouldn't
have one, the lemon-headed little cad!"

"I think I see Mamma looking for me;" i.e., "Must get rid of the bore somehow."

A LITTLE MUSIC.

"Oh, will you play us that sweet little thing of yours in five flats?" i.e., "It isn't sweet,
but it is short, which is something--with him!"

"Won't you give us just one song, Mr. Howler? I won't ask you for more;" i.e., "Wouldn't for
that, if I could help it."

       *       *       *       *       *

MODERN TYPES.

(By Mr. Punch's Own Type-writer.)

No. IX.--THE ADVERTISING BARRISTER.

The Advertising Barrister may best be defined as the living and pushing embodiment of self-assertion
and impudence. He is not of those who by a life of steady and honourable toil attain eventually
to the high places of their profession, whether at the Bar or in Parliament, without losing
the respect and friendship of their fellows. These too in the race of life must pass many of
the feebler runners, and force themselves by their own merit into places that others would
fain have occupied, but they always run straight, their practice and their performance are
disfigured by no trick, and in the end they bring their honour untarnished to the goal, and
receive the applause even of their vanquished rivals. With them the Advertising Barrister has
no point in common, save the robes he wears in virtue of his call. For his ambition is as sordid
as the means whereby he attempts to fulfil it are questionable. He must be credited with the
knowledge that his natural abilities are by themselves insufficient to assure him either fame
or wealth. But he consoles himself by reflecting that if only impudence, réclame, and a taste
for the arts of a cadger, be protected by the hide of a rhinoceros, they are certain to prevail
up to a certain point against the humdrum industry of those inferior beings who hamper themselves
with considerations of honour and good-feeling. It must not be understood that the Advertiser
puffs himself in a literal sense in the advertising columns of the press. The rules of his
profession, to which even he pays an open deference, forbid this enormity; but in the subtler
methods of gaining a certain attention, and of keeping his name under the public eye, he has
no equal even in the ranks of those who spend thousands in order that the million may be made
happy with soap.

