Being a woman, Mollie Ainslie was not speculative.  She could not solve this problem of strength
and weakness.  In power of thought, breadth of reasoning, and keenness of analysis she felt
that he was her master; in knowledge--the power of acquiring and using scientific facts--she
could but laugh at his weakness. It puzzled her. She wondered at it; but she had never sought
to assign a reason for it. It remained for the learner himself  to do this. One day, after
weeks of despondency, he changed places with his teacher during the hour devoted  to his lessons,
and taught her why it was that he, Eliab Hill, with all his desire to learn and his ceaseless
application to his tasks, yet made so little progress in the acquisition of knowledge.

"It ain't so much the words, Miss Mollie," he said, as he threw down a book in which he had
asked her to explain some passage she had never read before, but the meaning of which came
to her at a glance--"it ain't so much the words as it is the ideas that trouble me. These men
who write seem to think and feel differently from those I have known. I can learn the words,
but when I have them all right I am by no means sure that I know just what they mean," "Why,
you must," said the positive little Yankee woman; "when one has the words and knows the meaning
of all of them, he cannot help knowing what the writer means."

"Perhaps I do not put it as I should," said he sadly. "What I want to say is, that there are
thoughts and bearings that I can never gather from books alone.  They come to you, Miss Ainslie,
and to those like you, from those who were before you in the world, and from things about you.
It is the part of knowledge that can't be put into books. Now I have none of that. My people
cannot give it to me. I catch a sight of it here and there. Now and then, a conversation I
heard years ago between some white men will come up and make plain something that I am puzzling
over, but it is not easy for me to learn."

"I do not think I understand you," she replied; "but if I do, I am sure you are mistaken. How
can you know the meanings of words, and yet not apprehend the thought conveyed?"

"I do not know how," he replied. "I only know that while thought seems to come from the printed
page to your mind like a flash of light, to mine it only comes with difficulty and after many
readings, though I may know every word. For instance," he continued, taking up a voiume of
Tennyson which lay upon her table, "take any passage. Here is one: 'Tears, idle tears, I know
not what they mean!' I have no doubt that brings a distinct idea to your mind."

"Yes," she replied, hesitatingly; "I never thought of it before, but I think it does."

"Well, it does not to mine. I cannot make out what is meant by 'idle' tears, nor whether the
author means to say that he does not know what 'tears' mean, or only 'idle' tears, or whether
he does not understand such a display of grief because it is idle."

"Might he not have meant any or all of these?" she asked.

"That is it," he replied. "I want to know what he did mean. Of course, if I knew all about
his life and ways, and the like, I could tell pretty fully his meaning.  You know them because
his thoughts are your thoughts, his life has been your life. You belong to the same race and
class. I am cut off from this, and can only stumble slowly along the path of knowledge."

Thus the simple-minded colored man, taught to meditate  by the solitude which his affliction
enforced upon him, speculated in regard to the leges non scripta which control the action of
the human mind and condition its progress.

"What has put you in this strange mood, Eliab?" asked the teacher wonderingly.

His face flushed, and the mobile mouth twitched with emotion as he glanced earnestly toward
her, and then, with an air of sudden resolution, said:

"Well, you see, that matter of the election--you took it all in in a minute, when the horse
came back.  You knew the white folks would feel aggravated by that procession, and there would
be trouble. Now, I never thought of that. I just thought it was nice to be free, and have our
own music and march under that dear old flag to do the work of free men and citizens. That
was all."

"But Nimbus thought of it, and that was why he sent back the horse," she answered.

"Not at all. He only thought they might pester the horse to plague him, and the horse might
get away and be hurt. We didn't, none of us, think what the white folks would feel, because
we didn't know. You did."

"But why should this affect you?"

"Just because it shows that education is something more that I had thought--something so large
and difficult that one of my age, raised as I have been, can only get a taste of it at the best."

"Well, what then? You are not discouraged?"

"Not for myself--no. The pleasure of learning is reward enough to me. But my people, Miss Mollie,
I must think of them. I am only a poor withered branch.  They are the straight young tree.
I must think of them and not of Eliab. You have taught me--this affair, everything, teaches
me--that they can only be made free by knowledge. I begin to see that the law can only give
us an opportunity to make ourselves freemen. Liberty must be earned; it cannot be given."

"That is very true," said the practical girl, whose mind recognized at once the fact which
she had never formulated to herself. But as she looked into his face, working with intense
feeling and so lighted with the glory of a noble purpose as to make her forget the stricken
frame to which it was chained, she was puzzled at what seemed inconsequence in his words. So
she added, wonderingly, "But I don't see why this should depress you. Only think how much you
have done toward the end you have in view. Just think what you have accomplished--what strides
you have made toward a full and complete manhood. You ought to be proud rather than discouraged."

"Ah!" said he, "that has been for myself, Miss Mollie, not for my people. What am I to my race?
Aye," he continued, with a glance at his withered limbs, "to the least one of them not--not--"
He covered his face with his hands and bowed his head in the self-abasement which hopeless
affliction so often brings.

"Eliab," said the teacher soothingly, as if her pupil were a child instead of a man older than
herself, "you should not give way to such thoughts. You should rise above them, and by using
the powers you have, become an honor to your race."

"No, Miss Mollie," he replied, with a sigh, as he raised his head and gazed into her face earnestly.
"There ain't nothing in this world for me to look forward to only to help my people. I am only
the dust on the Lord's chariot-wheels--only the dust, which must be brushed out of the way
in order that their glory may shine forth. And that," he continued impetuously, paying no attention
to her gesture of remonstrance, "is what I wanted to speak to you about this evening. It is
hard to say, but I must say it--must say it now. I have been taking too much of your time and
attention, Miss Mollie."

"I am sure, Mr. Hill--" she began, in some confusion.

"Yes, I have," he went on impetuously, while his face flushed hotly. "It is the young and strong
only who can enter into the Canaan the Lord has put before our people. I thought for a while
that we were just standing on the banks of Jordan--that the promised land was right over yon,
and the waters piled up like a wall, so that even poor weak 'Liab might cross over.  But I
see plainer now. We're only just past the Red Sea, just coming into the wildnerness, and if
I can only get a glimpse from Horeb, wid my old eyes by and by, 'Liab 'll be satisfied. It'll
be enough, an' more'n enough, for him. He can only help the young ones--the lambs of the flock--a
little, mighty little, p'raps, but it's all there is for him to do."   "Why, Eliab--" began
the astonished teacher again.

"Don't! don't! Miss Mollie, if you please," he cried, with a look of pain. "I'se done tried--I
hez, Miss Mollie. God only knows how I'se tried! But it ain't no use--no use," he continued,
with a fierce gesture, and relapsing unconsciously into the rougher dialect that he had been
training himself to avoid. "I can't do it, an' there's no use a-tryin'. There ain't nothin'
good for me in this worl'--not in this worl'. It's hard to give it up, Miss Mollie--harder'n
you'll ever dream; but I hain't blind. I knows the brand is on me. It's on my tongue now, that
forgets all I've learned jes ez soon ez the time of trial comes."

He seemed wild with excitement as he leaned forward  on the table toward her, and accompanied
his words with that eloquence of gesticulation which only the hands that are tied to crippled
forms acquire. He paused suddenly, bowed his head upon his crossed arms, and his frame shook
with sobs. She rose, and would have come around the table to him. Raising his head quickly,
he cried almost fiercely:

"Don't! don't! don't come nigh me, Miss Mollie!  I'm going to do a hard thing, almost too hard
for me.  I'm going to get off the chariot-wheel--out of the light of the glory--out of the
way of the young and the strong!  Them that's got to fight the Lord's battles must have the
training, and not them that's bound to fall in the wilderness.  The time is precious--precious,
and must not be wasted. You can't afford to spend so much of it on me!  The Lord can't afford
ter hev ye, Miss Mollie! I must step aside, an' I'se gwine ter do it now. If yer's enny time
an' strength ter spar' more'n yer givin' day by day in the school, I want yer should give it
to--to--Winnie an' 'Thusa--they're bright girls, that have studied hard, and are young and
strong. It is through such as them that we must come up--our people, I mean. I want you to
give them my hour, Miss Mollie--my hour! Don't say you won't do it!" he cried, seeing a gesture
of dissent.  "Don't say it! You must do it! Promise me, Miss Mollie--for my sake! for--promise
me--now--quick! afore I gets too weak to ask it!"

"Why, certainly, Eliab," she said, in amazement, while she half shrank from him as if in terror.
"I will do it if you desire it so much. But you should not get so excited.  Calm yourself!
I am sure I don't see why you should take such a course; but, as you say, they are two bright
girls and will make good teachers, which are much needed."

"Thank God! thank God!" cried the cripple, as his head fell again upon his arms. After a moment
he half raised it and said, weakly,

"Will you please call Nimbus, Miss Mollie? I must go home now. And please, Miss Mollie, don't
think hard of 'Liab--don't, Miss Mollie," he said humbly.

"Why should I?" she asked in surprise. "You have acted nobly, though I cannot think you have
done wisely. You are nervous now. You may think differently  hereafter. If you do, you have
only to say so. I will call Nimbus. Good-by!"

She took her hat and gloves and went down the aisle.  Happening to turn near the door to replace
a book her dress had brushed from a desk, she saw him gazing after her with a look that haunted
her memory long afterward.

As the door closed behind her he slid from his chair and bowed his head upon it, crying out
in a voice of tearful agony, "Thank God! thank God!" again and again, while his unfinished
form shook with hysteric sobs.    "And she said I was not wise!" he half laughed, as the tears
ran down his face and he resumed his invocation of thankfulness. Thus Nimbus found him and
carried  him home with his wonted tenderness, soothing him like a babe, and wondering what
had occurred to discompose his usually sedate and cheerful friend.

