Difficulties arose almost from the first. Not only had Balliol to contend against the implacable
hostility of the Scottish patriots; the disinherited split up into rival factions after their
triumph, and their divisions played the game of the partisans of the Bruces. The Earls of Athol
and Buchan quarrelled with Balliol. Buchan, besieged by the partisans of David Bruce in a remote
castle, was forced to surrender and quit Scotland for good. Athol was distinguished by the
violence and suddenness of his tergiversations. After deserting Balliol for the patriots, he
once more declared for the two Edwards, and persuaded many of the Scottish magnates to submit
themselves to them. So long as the English king remained in Scotland, Athol was safe. On Edward's
retirement to his kingdom in November, 1335, the nationalist leaders took the earl prisoner
and put him to death. The war dragged on from year to year, with startling vicissitudes of
fortune, but at no time was Balliol really established on the Scottish throne, and at no time
did Edward III. really govern all the ceded districts.

Scottish business detained the English king and court mainly in the north. Edward was in Scotland
for most of the winter of 1334-5, keeping his Christmas court at Roxburgh. In the summer of
1335 he led an army into Scotland and penetrated as far as Perth. Again in 1336, he marched
from Perth along the east coast, as far as Elgin and Inverness. The Scots refused to give him
battle, and their tactics of evasion and guerilla warfare soon exhausted his resources and
demoralised his armies. This was Edward's last personal intervention in the business. He had
long been irritated by the persistent interference of the French king in Scottish affairs,
and his anger was not lessened by his hard plight forcing him, on more than one occasion, to
grant short truces to the Scottish insurgents at Philip's intervention. His relations with
France were becoming so strained that he preferred to spend 1337 in the south and entrust Thomas
Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick, with the conduct of the fruitless campaign of that year. Early
in 1338, Edward made his way once more to Berwick, but his intention of invading Scotland was
suddenly abandoned on the news of a threatened French expedition to England recalling him to
the south. This was the decisive moment of the long struggle. Henceforth the English king could
only devote a small share of his resources to an undertaking which he had not been able to
compass when his whole energies were absorbed in it. The patriots, who had always dominated
the open country, now attacked the castles and fortified towns, which were the bulwarks of
the Edwardian power. Within three years all the more important of these fell into their hands.
In 1339 Edward Balliol's capital of Perth was beset by Robert, the Steward of Scotland, who
had recently undertaken the regency for his uncle David. On the approach of danger, Balliol
was ordered to England, and Sir Thomas Ughtred, an English knight and one of the disinherited
of 1332, was entrusted with the command. By August he had been forced to surrender, and Stirling
soon afterwards opened its gates to the gallant and energetic steward. In 1341 Edinburgh castle
was captured by a clever stratagem, and a few weeks later David and Joan returned from France.
The king, then seventeen years old, henceforth undertook the personal administration of his
kingdom. Once more there was a King of Scots whom the Scottish people themselves desired. The
first military enterprise of Edward's reign ended in complete failure.

During the years of Edward Balliol's attempt on Scotland, it was the obvious interest of the
English king to maintain such relations with France as to prevent the tightening of the traditional
bond between the French and the Scottish courts. There were plenty of outstanding points of
difference between England and France, but neither country was anxious for war, and the result
of this mutual forbearance enabled Edward III. to deal with the Scots at his leisure. A survey
of the relations of the two realms during the first ten years of Edward III.'s reign will show
how, despite the reluctance of either party to force matters to a crisis, the Kings of France
and England gradually drifted into the hostility which, from 1337 onwards, paralysed the progress
of the English cause in Scotland.

At the moment of the fall of Edward II., England and France were still nominally engaged in
the war which had followed the second seizure of Guienne by Charles IV. The difficulties experienced
by Isabella and Mortimer in establishing their power made them as willing to give way to the
French as to the Scots. Accordingly, on March 31, 1327, a treaty of peace was signed at Paris.
By this treaty Edward only gained the restoration of certain of his Gascon vassals to the estates
of which they had been deprived through their loyalty to the English connexion. He pledged
himself to pay a large war indemnity, and accepted a partial restitution of his Gascon lands.
Like so many of the treaties since 1259, it was a truce rather than a peace. Many details still
remained for settlement, and it was pretty clear that the French, having the whip hand, would
drive Gascony towards the goal of gradual absorption which had been so clearly marked out by
Philip the Fair.

Charles IV. restored to Edward such parts of Gascony as he chose to surrender. He retained
in his hands Agen and the Agenais, and Bazas and the Bazadais, on the ground that Charles of
Valois had won them by right of conquest in 1324. This policy reduced Edward's duchy to two
portions of territory, very unequal in size and separated from each other by the lands conquered
by the French king's uncle. The larger section of the English king's lands extended along the
coast from the mouth of the Charente to the mouth of the Bidassoa. It included Saintes with
Saintonge south of the Charente, Bordeaux and the Bordelais, Dax and the diocese of Dax, and
Bayonne and its territory. But in no place did the boundaries go very far inland. Along the
Dordogne, Libourne and Saint-Émilion were the easternmost English towns. Up the Garonne, the
French were in possession of Langon, while, in the valley of the Adour, Saint-Sever, perched
on its upland rock, was the landward outpost of the diminished Gascon duchy. In the east of
the Agenais the two châtellenies of Penne and Puymirol formed a little enclave of ducal territory
which extended from the Lot to the Garonne. But this second fragment of the ancient duchy was
of no military and little commercial value, being commanded on all sides by the possessions
of the French king. Moreover, the fiefs dependent on the Gascon duchy had fallen away with
the attenuation of the duke's domain. In particular the viscounty of Béarn, now held by the
Count of Foix, repudiated all allegiance to its English overlord. Even a thoroughly Gascon
seigneur, such as the lord of Albret, was wavering in his fidelity to his duke. It was no longer
safe for Gascons to risk the hostility of the king of the French.

Within a year of the treaty of Paris, the death of Charles IV. further complicated Anglo-French
relations. Like his brothers, Louis X. and Philip V., Charles the Fair left no male issue;
but the pregnancy of his queen prevented the settlement of the succession being completed immediately
after his decease. The barons of France, however, had no serious doubts as to their policy.
The inadmissibility of a female ruler had already been determined at the accession of both
Philip V. and Charles IV., and it was clear that the nearest male heir was Philip, Count of
Valois, who had recently succeeded to the great appanage left vacant by the death in 1325 of
his father, Charles of Valois, the inveterate enemy of the English. As the next representative
of the male line, the French at once recognised Philip of Valois as regent. When his cousin's
widow gave birth to a daughter, the regent was proclaimed as King Philip VI. without either
delay or hesitation. Thus the house of Valois occupied the throne of France in the place of
the direct Capetian line in which son had succeeded father since the days of Hugh Capet.

Even Isabella and Mortimer protested against the succession of Philip of Valois. Admitted that
the exclusion of women from the monarchy was already established by two precedents, could it
not be plausibly argued that a woman, incapable herself of reigning, might form "the bridge
and plank"[1] (as a contemporary put it) by which her sons might step into the rights of their
ancestors? Strange as such a conception seems to our ideas, it was not unfamiliar to the jurists
of that day. It was in this fashion that the Capetian house claimed its boasted descent and
continuity from the race of Charlemagne. Such a principle was actually the law in some parts
of France, and it was a matter of every-day occurrence in the Parisis to transmit male fiefs
to the sons of heiresses, themselves incapable of succession. Edward, as the son of Charles
IV.'s sister, was nearer of kin to his uncle than Philip, the son of Charles's uncle. Surely
a man's nephew had a better right to his succession than his first cousin could ever claim?
From the purely juridical point of view, the claim put forward by Isabella on her son's behalf
was not only plausible but strong.

    [1] Viollet, Hist. des Institutions politiques et
    administratives de la France, ii., 74, from a MS. source. See
    also Viollet, Comment les Femmes ont été exclues en France de
    la Succession à la Couronne, in Mém. de l'Acad. des
    Inscriptions, xxxiv., pt. ii. (1893).

Happily for France, the magnates of the realm dealt with the succession question as statesmen
and not as lawyers. A later age imagined that the French barons brought forward a text of the
law of the Salian Pranks, as a complete answer to Edward's claim from the juridical point of
view. But the famous Salic law was a figment, forged by the next generation of lawyers who
were eager to give a complete refutation of the elaborate legal pleadings of the partisans
of the English claim. No authentic Salic law dealt with the question of the succession to the
throne,[1] and the bold step of transferring a doctrine of private inheritance to the domain
of public law was one of the characteristic feats of the medieval jurist, anxious to heap up
at any risk a mass of arguments that might overwhelm his antagonists' case. The barons of 1328
rose superior to legal subtleties. To them the question at issue was the preservation of the
national identity of their country. The vital thing for them was to secure the throne of France,
both at the moment and at future times, for a Frenchman. Any admission, however guarded, of
the right of women to transmit claims to their sons opened out a vista of the foreign offspring
of French princesses, married abroad, ruling France as strangers, and it might be as enemies.
They chose Philip of Valois because he was a Frenchman born and bred, and because he had no
interests or possessions outside the French realm. They could not endure the idea of being
ruled by the English king. He was not only a stranger, but the hereditary enemy. The Capetian
monarchy must at all costs be kept French.

    [1] Viollet, op. cit., pp. 55-57; cf. Désprez, Les
    Préliminaires de la Giurre de Cent Am, p. 32.

Isabella did what she could on her son's behalf. She excited the noblesse of Aquitaine to support
Edward's claim; but the lords of the south paid no heed to her exhortations. She was more successful
with the Flemings, then in revolt against their Count, Louis of Nevers. Twelve notables of
Bruges, headed by the burgomaster, William de Deken, visited England and offered to recognise
Edward as King of France if he would support the Flemish democracy against their feudal lord.[1]
But Philip VI.'s first act was to unite with the Count of Flanders, and the fatal day of Cassel
laid low the fortunes of Bruges and restored the fugitive Louis to power. Isabella was forced
to resign herself to simple protests.

    [1] See Pirenne, La première Tentative pour reconnaitre
    Édouard I. comme Roi de France in Ann. de la Soc. d'Hist. de
    Gand, 1902.

The inevitable demand from Philip VI. for Edward's homage for Guienne and Ponthieu soon brought
the English government face to face with realities. The request for his vassal's submission,
conveyed to England by Peter Roger, Abbot of Fecamp, the future Clement VI., was even more
unwelcome than such demands commonly were. At first Isabella used brave words: "My son, who
is the son of a king, will never do homage to the son of a count".[1] But a threat of a third
seizure of Gascony soon brought the queen to her senses. Further insistence on the part of
Philip was met with polite apologies for delay. At last, in May, 1329, the young king crossed
the Channel, and on June 6 performed homage to Philip in the choir of the cathedral of Amiens.
But even at the last moment there were explanations and reservations on both sides. Philip
made it clear that he acknowledged no claim of his vassal to any territories, beyond those
which he actually possessed. Edward's advisers protested that they abandoned no pretension
to the whole by performing homage for a part. Moreover, the act of homage was couched in such
ambiguous phrases that it remained doubtful whether Edward had performed "liege homage," as
the King of France demanded, or only "simple homage," such as seemed to him less offensive
to the dignity of a crowned king. Thus, though the cousins parted amicably and discussed proposals
of a marriage treaty between the English and French houses, the homage at Amiens settled nothing.

    [1] Grandes Chroniques de France, v., 323 (ed. P. Paris).

The diplomatists still had plenty of work before them. The French statesmen insisted on the
necessity of the ceremony at Amiens being interpreted as liege homage, involving the obligation
of defending the overlord "against all those who can live or die". The English politicians
complained of the "injustice and unreason of the King of France, who seeks the disinheritance
of their master in Aquitaine". It was only by limiting the demands of both parties to points
of detail, that a compromise was arrived at in the convention of the Wood of Vincennes on May
8, 1330. Further negotiations were still necessary; and at the moment when everything was trembling
in the balance, the sudden occupation of Saintes by the Count of Alencon, brother of Philip
VI., brought matters within a measurable distance of war. But Edward, then at the beginning
of his real reign, had no mind for fighting. A more satisfactory convention, drawn up on March
9, 1331, at Saint-Germain-en-Laye, was ratified by Edward at Eltham on March 30, when he recognised
that he owed liege homage, and not merely simple homage, to the King of France. Next month,
he crossed over to France so secretly that his subjects believed that he went disguised as
a merchant or a pilgrim. At Pont-Sainte-Maxence, a little town on the Oise, a few miles below
Compiègne, Edward held an interview with Philip VI., who came thither with equal privacy. The
French king does not seem to have insisted upon a renewal of homage, being content with the
assurance already given as to the character of the previous ceremony. The informal interview,
which the modern historian can only ascertain by painful scrutiny of the royal itineraries,
proved more fertile in friendship than all the pomp of Amiens. Before Edward went home, Philip
gave him complete satisfaction for the outrage at Saintes, and arrived at a financial settlement.
Thus Edward and Philip at last became friends "so far as outside appearances went," as a chronicler
of the time phrased it. The fundamental difference of interests and standpoint could be glossed
over by no facile compromise, and the calm of the next six years was only the prelude to a
storm destined to end the policy that had regulated the relations of the two courts from the
days of the peace of 1259 to those of the meeting at Pont-Sainte-Maxence.

At first there was talk of further cementing the newly established friendship. There were suggestions
of a marriage of Edward's infant son with Philip's daughter, a fresh interview between the
monarchs, a treaty of perpetual alliance and a common crusade against the Turks. The last,
and the most fantastic, of these projects was the one which was most seriously discussed. The
chivalrous spirit of Philip of Valois rose eagerly to the idea of a great European expedition
against the infidel, of which he was to be the chief commander. Inspired by John XXII., he
took the cross, made preparations for an early start, and invoked Edward's co-operation. Edward
cleverly utilised his kinsman's zeal as another lever for enforcing the settlement of outstanding
differences. "Tell your master," he said to the French ambassador, Peter Roger, now Archbishop
of Rouen, "that when he has fulfilled his promises, I will be more eager to go on the holy
voyage than he is himself." But the chronic troubles, arising from the unceasing extension
of the suzerain's claims in Aquitaine, and from the shelter given by Philip to David Bruce,
had continued all through the years of professed friendship, and in 1334 an embassy to Paris,
presided over by Archbishop Stratford, failed to establish a modus vivendi. In the same year
John XXII. died without having either procured the crusade or crushed Louis of Bavaria. His
successor, James Founder of Foix, who took the name of Benedict XII., pursued his general policy,
though in a more diplomatic and self-seeking spirit. Benedict's great wish was to, unite France
and England against his enemy, the Emperor Louis of Bavaria, and he dexterously played upon
Philip's eagerness for the crusade to persuade him to abandon to the papacy the position, which
he had assumed, of arbiter of the differences between Edward and the Scots. It was a signal,
though transitory, triumph of this policy that a truce between England and Scotland was brought
about by the mediation of the pope and not of the French king. But Benedict found that a crusade
was impossible so long as the chief powers of the west were hopelessly estranged from each
other. In 1336, he vetoed the crusading scheme until happier times had dawned. Philip, bitterly
disappointed, sought out Benedict at Avignon, but utterly failed to change his purpose. He
was in his own despite released from the crusader's vow, though exhorted still to continue
his preparations. The galleys, purchased from the crusading tenths of the Church, were transferred
from the Mediterranean to the Channel. The French king might well find consolation for the
abandonment of the holy war in a sudden descent on England.

From that moment the horizon darkened. Philip VI., once more took up the cause of the Scots,
and once more the Aquitanian troubles became acute. His irritation at Benedict led him to open
up negotiations with Louis of Bavaria, whereat Benedict was greatly offended. Edward III. then
sought to find friends who would help him against Philip. He was as much disgusted with the
pope as was his French rival. The crusading fleet, equipped with the money of the Roman Church,
threatened the English coast, and the curia was even more French in its sympathies than the
temporising pontiff. It is no wonder then that both kings looked coldly on Benedict's offer
of mediation between them. Yet, notwithstanding the indifference manifested by both courts,
two cardinals, Peter Gomez, a Spaniard, and Bertrand of Montfavence, a Frenchman, were sent
in the summer of 1337 as papal legates to France and England to settle the points in dispute.
For the next three years these prelates pursued their mission with energy and persistence,
though with little result.

A fresh dispute further embittered the personal relations of Philip and Edward. In 1336, Edward
offered a refuge in England to Robert of Artois, Philip's brother-in-law and mortal enemy.
The grandson of the Count Robert of Artois who was slain in 1302 at Courtrai, Robert of Artois
was indignant that the rich county of Artois should, according to local custom, have devolved
upon his aunt Maud, the wife of Otto, Count of Burgundy, or Franche Comté, and the mother-in-law
of the last two kings of the direct Capetian line. Though he had failed in several suits to
obtain it, Robert renewed his claim after his brother-in-law became King of France. It was
soon proved that the charters upon which he relied to prove his title had been forged. The
sudden death of the Countess of Artois, followed quickly by that of her daughter and heiress,
added the suspicion of poisoning to the certainly of forgery. Robert was deprived of all his
possessions and was exiled from France. Driven from his first refuge in Brabant by Philip's
indignant hostility, he found shelter in England, where he was received with a favour which
Philip bitterly resented. Condemned in his absence as a traitor, and devoured by a ferocious
hatred of Philip and his Burgundian wife, Robert did all that he could to inflame the mind
of Edward against the French king. French romance of the next generation, in the poem of the
Vow of the Heron,[1] tells how Robert, returning to Edward's court from the chase, brought
as his only victim a heron, which he offered to the king as the most timid of birds to the
most cowardly of kings; "for, sire," he declared, "you have not dared to claim the realm of
France which belongs to you by hereditary right". Stirred up by this challenge, Edward swore
to God and the heron that within a year he would place the crown of France on Queen Philippa's
brow. This famous legend is, however, a fiction. It was not until later that Edward seriously
renewed the claim which he had advanced in 1328. But when once war became certain, the challenge
of the French throne was bound to be made, and the dissolution of the friendly personal relations
of the two kings, which had so long prevented either from proceeding to extremities, was certainly
in large part the work of Robert of Artois. For the moment, Edward probably thought that his
welcome of Robert was only a fair return for Philip's reception of David Bruce.

    [1] Les voeus du héron in Wright, Political Poems and
    Songs, i., 1-25 (Rolls Ser.)

War being imminent, Edward looked beyond sea for foreign allies. Commercial and traditional
ties closely bound England to the county of Flanders, but our friendship had latterly been
with its people rather than with its princes. Louis of Nevers, the Count of Flanders, had been
expelled in 1328 by a rising of the maritime districts of the county, and had been restored
by force of arms through the agency of Philip of Valois. Gratitude and interest accordingly
combined to make Count Louis a strong partisan of Philip of Valois. Though far from absolute,
he was still possessed of sufficient authority over his unruly townsmen to make it impossible
for Edward to negotiate successfully with them. In 1336 the count answered Edward's advances
by prohibiting all commercial relations between his subjects and England. Bitterly disgusted
at the hostility of Flanders, Edward in 1337 passed a law through parliament which prohibited
the export of wool to the Flemish weaving centres. This measure provoked an economic crisis
at Ghent and Ypres; but for the moment such a catastrophe could only accentuate the differences
between England and the count. It was otherwise, however, with the neighbouring princes of
the imperial obedience. Count William I. of Hainault, Holland, and Zealand was Edward III.'s
father-in-law, and, during the last months of his strenuous career, he welcomed Bishop Burghersh,
Edward's chief diplomatist, to his favourite residence of Valenciennes, where from April, 1337,
the English ambassadors kept great state, "sparing as little as if the king were present there
in his own person," and striving with all their might to build up an alliance with the princes
of the Low Countries. When the count died, his son and successor, William II., persisted, though
with less energy, in his father's policy, and the Hainault connexion became the nucleus of
a general Low German alliance. Burghersh was lavish in promises, and soon a large number of
imperial vassals took Edward's pay and promised to fight his battles. Among these were Count
Reginald of Gelderland, who since 1332 had been the husband of Edward III.'s sister Eleanor,
and with him came the Counts of Berg, Jülich, Cleves, and Mark, the Count Palatine of the Rhine,
and a swarm of minor potentates.

Hardest to win over of the Netherlandish princes was Duke John III. of Brabant, a crafty statesman
and a successful warrior, who had recently conquered limburg, and won a signal victory over
a formidable coalition of his neighbours. Among his former foes had been the house of Avesnes,
but he had reconciled himself with Hainault, by reason of his greater hatred for Louis of Flanders.
The Flemish cities were the rivals in trade of his own land, and their count's friendship for
his French suzerain ensured the establishment of Philip of Valois as temporary lord of Mechlin,
the possession of which had long been indirectly disputed between Brabant and Flanders. The
hesitating duke was at last won over by a favourable commercial treaty, which made Antwerp
the staple of English wools, and ensured for the looms of Louvain and Brussels the advantages
denied by Edward's hostility to the clothworkers of Ghent and Ypres. Convinced that war with
Philip was the surest way of adding Mechlin to his dominions, he then joined the circle of
Edward's stipendiaries. The excommunicated and schismatic emperor, Louis of Bavaria, welcomed
the advances of Burghersh. More than one tie already bound the Bavarian to England. The English
Franciscan, William of Ockham, proved himself the most active and daring of the literary champions
of the imperial claims against John XXII. Moreover, the emperor and Edward had married sisters,
and their brother-in-law, the new Count of Hainault, Holland, and Zealand, was childless, so
that they had common interests in keeping on good terms with him. Louis' bitter enemy, Benedict
XII., forbade all hope of French support, and blocked the way to all prospect of reconciliation
with the Church. It was natural that Louis should take his revenge by an alliance with the
prince who ignored the advice of the pontiff, and hated the Valois king. As the result of all
this, an offensive and defensive alliance between Edward on the one hand and Louis and his
Low German vassals on the other was signed at Valenciennes in the summer of 1337.

The die seemed cast. Philip VI. pronounced the forfeiture of Gascony and Ponthieu. The French
at once invaded Edward's duchy and county, while the French sailors in the Channel plundered
the Anglo-Norman islands and the towns on the Sussex and Hampshire coasts. Edward redoubled
his preparations for war, and issued a long manifesto to his subjects in which he set forth
in violent language his grievances against Philip. It was at this unlucky moment that the two
cardinal legates came upon the scene, reaching Paris in August, intent on arranging a pacification.
The irritation, which Benedict showed against Edward for concluding an alliance with the schismatic
emperor, did not make him more disposed to the work of conciliation. But the pope saw in the
outbreak of a great war the destruction of his last hopes of humiliating the Bavarian, and
once more played upon the weakness and impolicy of Philip. Though France was more ready than
England, and Philip had everything to lose by delay, the French king allowed himself to be
persuaded by the two legates to enter once more upon the paths of conciliation. As a preliminary
measure, he revoked the order for the confiscation of Gascony, and accepted a temporary armistice.
As before in the Scottish business, Philip again played the game of the papacy. Unlike his
adversary, Edward continued steadily in the line which he had determined upon, while welcoming
any delay that gave him opportunity to get ready. He employed the interval in making peace
more impossible than ever. On October 7, he renewed his claim to the French crown, repudiated
the homage into which he had been tricked during his infancy, and sent Bishop Burghersh straight
from Valenciennes to Paris as bearer of his defiance. Thus the autumn of 1337 saw a virtual
declaration of war. In November the first serious hostilities took place. Sir Walter Manny
devastated the Flemish island of Cadzand, taking away with him as prisoner the bastard brother
of the Count of Flanders.

Papal diplomacy had not yet exhausted its resources. Benedict XII. was deeply concerned at
the conclusion of the Anglo-imperial alliance. He was convinced that the only possible way
of avoiding its perils was to persuade Edward and Philip to bury their differences and unite
with him against the emperor. He succeeded in obtaining short prolongations of the existing
armistice and, in December, 1337, the two cardinal legates landed in England, and were gladly
received by Edward, who was delighted to gain time by negotiations. For the next six months
they tarried in England, hoping against hope that something definite would result from their
efforts. Meanwhile the English hurried on their preparations for war, and Edward made ready
to cross over to the continent. As months slipped away, the tension became more severe, and
in May Edward denounced the truces, though he still kept up the pretence of negotiations, and
so late as June appointed ambassadors to treat with Philip of Valois. The real interest centred
in the hard fighting which at once broke out at sea between the rival seamen of England and
Normandy. At first the advantage was with the Normans. Not only were many English ships captured,
but repeated destructive forays were made on the coasts of the south-eastern counties. Portsmouth
was burnt; the Channel Islands were ravaged; and so alarming were the French corsairs that,
in July, 1338, the dwellers on the south coast were ordered to take refuge in fortresses, or
withdraw their goods to a distance of four leagues from the sea.

At last the army and fleet were ready. On July 12, 1338, Edward appointed his son, the eight-year-old
Duke of Cornwall, warden of England, and a few days later sailed from Orwell on a great ship
named the Christopher. A favourable wind quickly bore the royal fleet to the mouth of the Scheldt.
Thence the king and his army sailed up the river to Antwerp, the chief port of Brabant, where
they landed on July 16. There, on July 22, Edward revoked all commissions addressed to the
King of France, and withheld from his agents all power to prejudice his own pretensions to
the throne of the Valois. He passed more than a month at Antwerp, holding frequent conferences
with his imperial allies, and thence proceeded through Brabant and Jülich to Cologne. From
that city he went up the Rhine to Coblenz, where on September 5 he held an interview with his
queen's imperial brother-in-law. Their meeting was celebrated with all the pomp and stateliness
of the heyday of chivalry. Edward was accompanied by the highest nobles of his land, the emperor
by all the electors, save King John of Bohemia, who, as a Luxemburger, was a convinced partisan
of the French. Louis received his ally clothed in a purple dalmatic, with crown on head and
with sceptre and orb in hand, surrounded by the electors and the higher dignitaries of the
empire, and seated on a lofty throne erected in the Castorplatz, hard by the Romanesque basilica
that watches over the junction of the Moselle with the Rhine. Another throne, somewhat lower
in height, was occupied by the King of England, clothed in a robe of scarlet embroidered with
gold, and surrounded by three hundred knights. Then, before the assembled crowd, Louis declared
that Philip of France had forfeited the fiefs which he held of the empire. He put into Edward's
hands a rod of gold and a charter of investiture, by which symbols he appointed him as "Vicar-general
of the Empire in all the Germanies and in all the Almaines". Next day the allies heard a mass
celebrated by the Archbishop of Cologne in the church of St. Castor. After the service the
emperor swore to aid Edward against the King of France for seven years, while the barons of
the empire took oaths to obey the imperial vicar and to march against his enemies. Thereupon
the English king took farewell of the emperor, and returned to Brabant.

All was ready for war. The interview at Coblenz was the deathblow to the papal diplomacy, and
the sluggish Philip awaited in the Vermandois the expected attack of the Anglo-imperial armies.
Yet the best part of a year was still to elapse before lances were crossed in earnest. The
lords of the empire had no real care for the cause of Edward. They were delighted to take his
presents, to pledge themselves to support him, and to insist upon the regular payment of the
subsidies he had promised. But John of Brabant was more intent on winning Mechlin than on invading
France, and even William of Avesnes was embarrassed by the ties which bound him to Philip,
his uncle, even more than to Edward, his brother-in-law. They contented themselves with taking
Edward's money and giving him little save promises in return. It became evident that an imperial
vicar would be obeyed even less than an emperor. Every week of delay was dangerous to Edward,
who had exhausted his resources in the pompous pageantry of his Rhenish journey, and in magnificent
housekeeping in Brabant. It was then Edward's interest, as it had previously been Philip's,
to bring matters to a crisis. That he failed to do this must be ascribed to the lukewarmness
of his allies, the poverty of his exchequer, and, above all, to the still active diplomacy
of Benedict XII.

The cardinal legates appeared in Brabant, but their tone was different from that which they
had taken in the previous spring in England. Profoundly irritated by the alliance of Edward
and Louis, Benedict lectured the English king on the iniquity of his courses. The empire was
vacant; the Coblenz grant was therefore of no effect; if Edward persisted in acting as vicar
of the schismatic, he would be excommunicated. Benedict stood revealed as the partisan of France.
It was in vain that Edward offered peace if France gave up the Scots and made full restitution
of Gascony. Benedict ordered his legates to refuse to discuss the latter proposal, and, as
the Gascon question lay at the root of the whole matter, an amicable settlement became more
impossible than ever. Edward hotly defended his right to make what alliances he chose with
his wife's kinsmen, and bitterly denounced the employment of the wealth of the Church in equipping
the armies of his enemies. Though the cardinals, Peter and Bertrand, remained in Edward's camp,
they might, for all practical purposes, as well have been at Avignon. The papal diplomacy had
failed.

Edward employed the leisure forced upon him by these events in elaborating his claim to the
French throne. His lawyers ransacked both Roman jurisprudence and feudal custom that they might
lay before the pope and Christendom plausible reasons for their master's pretensions. They
advanced pleas of an even bolder character. Was not the right of Edward to the French throne
the same as that of Jesus Christ to the succession of David? The Virgin Mary, incapable of
the succession on her own behalf, was yet able to transmit her rights to her Son. These contentions,
sacred and profane, did not touch the vital issue. It was not the dynastic question that brought
about the war, though, war being inevitable, Edward might well, as he himself said, use his
claim as a buckler to protect himself from his enemies. The fundamental difference between
the two nations lay in the impossible position of Edward in Gascony. He could not abandon his
ancient patrimony, and Philip could not give up that policy of gradually absorbing the great
fiefs which the French kings had carried on since the days of St. Louis. The support given
to the Scots, the Anglo-imperial alliance, the growing national animosity of the two peoples,
the rivalry of English and French merchants and sailors, all these and many similar causes
were but secondary.[1] At this stage the claim to the French throne, though immensely complicating
the situation, and interposing formidable technical obstacles to the conduct of negotiations,
loomed larger in talk than in acts. It was only in 1340, when Edward saw in his pretensions
the best way of commanding the allegiance of Philip's sworn vassals, that the question of the
French title became a serious matter.

    [1] Déprez, Les Préliminaires de la Guerre de Cent Am, pp.
    400-406, admirably elucidates the situation.

