In the morning the Colonel visited his guest. 'Now,' said he, 'I have some good news for you.
Your reputation as a gentleman and officer is effectually cleared of neglect of duty and accession
to the mutiny in Gardiner's regiment. I have had a correspondence on this subject with a very
zealous friend of yours, your Scottish parson, Morton; his first letter was addressed to Sir
Everard; but I relieved the good Baronet of the trouble of answering it. You must know, that
your free-booting acquaintance, Donald of the Cave, has at length fallen into the hands of
the Philistines. He was driving off the cattle of a certain proprietor, called Killan --something
or other--'

'Killancureit?'

'The same. Now the gentleman being, it seems, a great farmer, and having a special value for
his breed of cattle, being, moreover, rather of a timid disposition, had got a party of soldiers
to protect his property. So Donald ran his head unawares into the lion's mouth, and was defeated
and made prisoner. Being ordered for execution, his conscience was assailed on the one hand
by a Catholic priest, on the other by your friend Morton. He repulsed the Catholic chiefly
on account of the doctrine of extreme unction, which this economical gentleman considered as
an excessive waste of oil. So his conversion from a state of impenitence fell to Mr. Morton's
share, who, I daresay, acquitted himself excellently, though I suppose Donald made but a queer
kind of Christian after all. He confessed, however, before a magistrate, one Major Melville,
who seems to have been a correct, friendly sort of person, his full intrigue with Houghton,
explaining particularly how it was carried on, and fully acquitting you of the least accession
to it. He also mentioned his rescuing you from the hands of the volunteer officer, and sending
you, by orders of the Pret--Chevalier, I mean--as a prisoner to Doune, from whence he understood
you were carried prisoner to Edinburgh. These are particulars which cannot but tell in your
favour. He hinted that he had been employed to deliver and protect you, and rewarded for doing
so; but he would not confess by whom, alleging that, though he would not have minded breaking
any ordinary oath to satisfy the curiosity of Mr. Morton, to whose pious admonitions he owed
so much, yet, in the present case he had been sworn to silence upon the edge of his dirk, [Footnote:
See Note 14.] which, it seems, constituted, in his opinion, an inviolable obligation.'

'And what is become of him?'

'Oh, he was hanged at Stirling after the rebels raised the siege, with his lieutenant and four
plaids besides; he having the advantage of a gallows more lofty than his friends.'

'Well, I have little cause either to regret or rejoice at his death; and yet he has done me
both good and harm to a very considerable extent.'

'His confession, at least, will serve you materially, since it wipes from your character all
those suspicions which gave the accusation against you a complexion of a nature different from
that with which so many unfortunate gentlemen, now or lately in arms against the government,
may be justly charged. Their treason --I must give it its name, though you participate in its
guilt--is an action arising from mistaken virtue, and therefore cannot be classed as a disgrace,
though it be doubtless highly criminal. Where the guilty are so numerous, clemency must be
extended to far the greater number; and I have little doubt of procuring a remission for you,
providing we can keep you out of the claws of justice till she has selected and gorged upon
her victims; for in this, as in other cases, it will be according to the vulgar proverb, "First
come, first served." Besides, government are desirous at present to intimidate the English
Jacobites, among whom they can find few examples for punishment. This is a vindictive and timid
feeling which will soon wear off, for of all nations the English are least blood-thirsty by
nature. But it exists at present, and you must therefore be kept out of the way in the mean-time.'

Now entered Spontoon with an anxious countenance. By his regimental acquaintances he had traced
out Madam Nosebag, and found her full of ire, fuss, and fidget at discovery of an impostor
who had travelled from the north with her under the assumed name of Captain Butler of Gardiner's
dragoons. She was going to lodge an information on the subject, to have him sought for as an
emissary of the Pretender; but Spontoon (an old soldier), while he pretended to approve, contrived
to make her delay her intention. No time, however, was to be lost: the accuracy of this good
dame's description might probably lead to the discovery that Waverley was the pretended Captain
Butler, an identification fraught with danger to Edward, perhaps to his uncle, and even to
Colonel Talbot. Which way to direct his course was now, therefore, the question.

'To Scotland,' said Waverley.

'To Scotland?' said the Colonel; 'with what purpose? not to engage again with the rebels, I hope?'

'No; I considered my campaign ended when, after all my efforts, I could not rejoin them; and
now, by all accounts, they are gone to make a winter campaign in the Highlands, where such
adherents as I am would rather be burdensome than useful. Indeed, it seems likely that they
only prolong the war to place the Chevalier's person out of danger, and then to make some terms
for themselves. To burden them with my presence would merely add another party, whom they would
not give up and could not defend. I understand they left almost all their English adherents
in garrison at Carlisle, for that very reason. And on a more general view, Colonel, to confess
the truth, though it may lower me in your opinion, I am heartly tired of the trade of war,
and am, as Fletcher's Humorous Lieutenant says, "even as weary of this fighting-'"

'Fighting! pooh, what have you seen but a skirmish or two? Ah! if you saw war on the grand
scale--sixty or a hundred thousand men in the field on each side!'

'I am not at all curious, Colonel. "Enough," says our homely proverb, "is as good as a feast."
The plumed troops and the big war used to enchant me in poetry, but the night marches, vigils,
couches under the wintry sky, and such accompaniments of the glorious trade, are not at all
to my taste in practice; then for dry blows, I had MY fill of fighting at Clifton, where I
escaped by a hair's-breadth half a dozen times; and you, I should think--' He stopped.

'Had enough of it at Preston? you mean to say,' answered the Colonel, laughing; 'but 'tis my
vocation, Hal.'

'It is not mine, though,' said Waverley; 'and having honourably got rid of the sword, which
I drew only as a volunteer, I am quite satisfied with my military experience, and shall be
in no hurry to take it up again.'

'I am very glad you are of that mind; but then what would you do in the north?'

'In the first place, there are some seaports on the eastern coast of Scotland still in the
hands of the Chevalier's friends; should I gain any of them, I can easily embark for the Continent.'

'Good, your second reason?'

'Why, to speak the very truth, there is a person in Scotland upon whom I now find my happiness
depends more than I was always aware, and about whose situation I am very anxious.'

'Then Emily was right, and there is a love affair in the case after all? And which of these
two pretty Scotchwomen, whom you insisted upon my admiring, is the distinguished fair? not
Miss Glen--I hope.'

'No.'

'Ah, pass for the other; simplicity may be improved, but pride and conceit never. Well, I don't
discourage you; I think it will please Sir Everard, from what he said when I jested with him
about it; only I hope that intolerable papa, with his brogue, and his snuff, and his Latin,
and his insufferable long stories about the Duke of Berwick, will find it necessary hereafter
to be an inhabitant of foreign parts. But as to the daughter, though I think you might find
as fitting a match in England, yet if your heart be really set upon this Scotch rosebud, why
the Baronet has a great opinion of her father and of his family, and he wishes much to see
you married and settled, both for your own sake and for that of the three ermines passant,
which may otherwise pass away altogether. But I will bring you his mind fully upon the subject,
since you are debarred correspondence for the present, for I think you will not be long in
Scotland before me.'

'Indeed! and what can induce you to think of returning to Scotland? No relenting longings towards
the land of mountains and floods, I am afraid.'

'None, on my word; but Emily's health is now, thank God, reestablished, and, to tell you the
truth, I have little hopes of concluding the business which I have at present most at heart
until I can have a personal interview with his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief; for,
as Fluellen says, "the duke doth love me well, and I thank heaven I have deserved some love
at his hands." I am now going out for an hour or two to arrange matters for your departure;
your liberty extends to the next room, Lady Emily's parlour, where you will find her when you
are disposed for music, reading, or conversation. We have taken measures to exclude all servants
but Spontoon, who is as true as steel.'

In about two hours Colonel Talbot returned, and found his young friend conversing with his
lady; she pleased with his manners and information, and he delighted at being restored, though
but for a moment, to the society of his own rank, from which he had been for some time excluded.

'And now,' said the Colonel, 'hear my arrangements, for there is little time to lose. This
youngster, Edward Waverley, alias Williams, alias Captain Butler, must continue to pass by
his fourth ALIAS of Francis Stanley, my nephew; he shall set out to- morrow for the North,
and the chariot shall take him the first two stages. Spontoon shall then attend him; and they
shall ride post as far as Huntingdon; and the presence of Spontoon, well known on the road
as my servant, will check all disposition to inquiry. At Huntingdon you will meet the real
Frank Stanley. He is studying at Cambridge; but, a little while ago, doubtful if Emily's health
would permit me to go down to the North myself, I procured him a passport from the secretary
of state's office to go in my stead. As he went chiefly to look after you, his journey is now
unnecessary. He knows your story; you will dine together at Huntingdon; and perhaps your wise
heads may hit upon some plan for removing or diminishing the danger of your farther progress
north- ward. And now (taking out a morocco case), let me put you in funds for the campaign.'

'I am ashamed, my dear Colonel--'

'Nay,' said Colonel Talbot, 'you should command my purse in any event; but this money is your
own. Your father, considering the chance of your being attainted, left me his trustee for your
advantage. So that you are worth above L15,000, besides Brere-Wood Lodge--a very independent
person, I promise you. There are bills here for L200; any larger sum you may have, or credit
abroad, as soon as your motions require it.'

The first use which occurred to Waverley of his newly acquired wealth was to write to honest
Farmer Jopson, requesting his acceptance of a silver tankard on the part of his friend Williams,
who had not forgotten the night of the eighteenth December last. He begged him at the same
time carefully to preserve for him his Highland garb and accoutrements, particularly the arms,
curious in themselves, and to which the friendship of the donors gave additional value. Lady
Emily undertook to find some suitable token of remembrance likely to flatter the vanity and
please the taste of Mrs. Williams; and the Colonel, who was a kind of farmer, promised to send
the Ullswater patriarch an excellent team of horses for cart and plough.

One happy day Waverley spent in London; and, travelling in the manner projected, he met with
Frank Stanley at Huntingdon. The two young men were acquainted in a minute.

'I can read my uncle's riddle,' said Stanley;'the cautious old soldier did not care to hint
to me that I might hand over to you this passport, which I have no occasion for; but if it
should afterwards come out as the rattle-pated trick of a young Cantab, cela ne tire a rien.
You are therefore to be Francis Stanley, with this passport.' This proposal appeared in effect
to alleviate a great part of the difficulties which Edward must otherwise have encountered
at every turn; and accordingly he scrupled not to avail himself of it, the more especially
as he had discarded all political purposes from his present journey, and could not be accused
of furthering machinations against the government while travelling under protection of the
secretary's passport.

The day passed merrily away. The young student was inquisitive about Waverley's campaigns,
and the manners of the Highlands, and Edward was obliged to satisfy his curiosity by whistling
a pibroch, dancing a strathspey, and singing a Highland song. The next morning Stanley rode
a stage northward with his new friend, and parted from him with great reluctance, upon the
remonstrances of Spontoon, who, accustomed to submit to discipline, was rigid in enforcing it.

CHAPTER LXIII

DESOLATION

Waverley riding post, as was the usual fashion of the period, without any adventure save one
or two queries, which the talisman of his passport sufficiently answered, reached the borders
of Scotland. Here he heard the tidings of the decisive battle of Culloden. It was no more than
he had long expected, though the success at Falkirk had thrown a faint and setting gleam over
the arms of the Chevalier. Yet it came upon him like a shock, by which he was for a time altogether
unmanned. The generous, the courteous, the noble-minded adventurer was then a fugitive, with
a price upon his head; his adherents, so brave, so enthusiastic, so faithful, were dead, imprisoned,
or exiled. Where, now, was the exalted and high-souled Fergus, if, indeed, he had survived
the night at Clifton? Where the pure-hearted and primitive Baron of Bradwardine, whose foibles
seemed foils to set off the disinterestedness of his disposition, the genuine goodness of his
heart, and his unshaken courage? Those who clung for support to these fallen columns, Rose
and Flora, where were they to be sought, and in what distress must not the loss of their natural
protectors have involved them? Of Flora he thought with the regard of a brother for a sister;
of Rose with a sensation yet more deep and tender. It might be still his fate to supply the
want of those guardians they had lost. Agitated by these thoughts he precipitated his journey.

When he arrived in Edinburgh, where his inquiries must necessarily commence, he felt the full
difficulty of his situation. Many inhabitants of that city had seen and known him as Edward
Waverley; how, then, could he avail himself of a passport as Francis Stanley? He resolved,
therefore, to avoid all company, and to move northward as soon as possible. He was, however,
obliged to wait a day or two in expectation of a letter from Colonel Talbot, and he was also
to leave his own address, under his feigned character, at a place agreed upon. With this latter
purpose he sallied out in the dusk through the well-known streets, carefully shunning observation,
but in vain: one of the first persons whom he met at once recognised him. It was Mrs. Flockhart,
Fergus Mac- Ivor's good-humoured landlady.

'Gude guide us, Mr. Waverley, is this you? na, ye needna be feared for me. I wad betray nae
gentleman in your circumstances. Eh, lack-a-day! lack-a-day! here's a change o' markets; how
merry Colonel MacIvor and you used to be in our house!' And the good- natured widow shed a
few natural tears. As there was no resisting her claim of acquaintance, Waverley acknowledged
it with a good grace, as well as the danger of his own situation. 'As it's near the darkening,
sir, wad ye just step in by to our house and tak a dish o' tea? and I am sure if ye like to
sleep in the little room, I wad tak care ye are no disturbed, and naebody wad ken ye; for Kate
and Matty, the limmers, gaed aff wi' twa o' Hawley's dragoons, and I hae twa new queans instead
o' them.'

Waverley accepted her invitation, and engaged her lodging for a night or two, satisfied he
should be safer in the house of this simple creature than anywhere else. When he entered the
parlour his heart swelled to see Fergus's bonnet, with the white cockade, hanging beside the
little mirror.

'Ay,' said Mrs. Flockhart, sighing, as she observed the direction of his eyes, 'the puir Colonel
bought a new ane just the day before they marched, and I winna let them tak that ane doun,
but just to brush it ilka day mysell; and whiles I look at it till I just think I hear him
cry to Callum to bring him his bonnet, as he used to do when he was ganging out. It's unco
silly--the neighbours ca' me a Jacobite, but they may say their say--I am sure it's no for
that--but he was as kind-hearted a gentleman as ever lived, and as weel-fa'rd too. Oh, d'ye
ken, sir, when he is to suffer?'

'Suffer! Good heaven! Why, where is he?'

'Eh, Lord's sake! d'ye no ken? The poor Hieland body, Dugald Mahony, cam here a while syne,
wi' ane o' his arms cuttit off, and a sair clour in the head--ye'll mind Dugald, he carried
aye an axe on his shouther--and he cam here just begging, as I may say, for something to eat.
Aweel, he tauld us the Chief, as they ca'd him (but I aye ca' him the Colonel), and Ensign
Maccombich, that ye mind weel, were ta'en somewhere beside the English border, when it was
sae dark that his folk never missed him till it was ower late, and they were like to gang clean
daft. And he said that little Callum Beg (he was a bauld mischievous callant that) and your
honour were killed that same night in the tuilzie, and mony mae braw men. But he grat when
he spak o' the Colonel, ye never saw the like. And now the word gangs the Colonel is to be
tried, and to suffer wi' them that were ta'en at Carlisle.'

'And his sister?'

'Ay, that they ca'd the Lady Flora--weel, she's away up to Carlisle to him, and lives wi' some
grand Papist lady thereabouts to be near him.'

'And,' said Edward,'the other young lady?'

'Whilk other? I ken only of ae sister the Colonel had.'

'I mean Miss Bradwardine,' said Edward.

'Ou, ay; the laird's daughter' said his landlady. 'She was a very bonny lassie, poor thing,
but far shyer than Lady Flora.'

'Where is she, for God's sake?'

'Ou, wha kens where ony o' them is now? puir things, they're sair ta'en doun for their white
cockades and their white roses; but she gaed north to her father's in Perthshire, when the
government troops cam back to Edinbro'. There was some prettymen amang them, and ane Major
Whacker was quartered on me, a very ceevil gentleman,--but O, Mr. Waverley, he was naething
sae weel fa'rd as the puir Colonel.'

'Do you know what is become of Miss Bradwardine's father?'

'The auld laird? na, naebody kens that. But they say he fought very hard in that bluidy battle
at Inverness; and Deacon Clank, the whit-iron smith, says that the government folk are sair
agane him for having been out twice; and troth he might hae ta'en warning, but there's nae
Me like an auld fule. The puir Colonel was only out ance.'

Such conversation contained almost all the good-natured widow knew of the fate of her late
lodgers and acquaintances; but it was enough to determine Edward, at all hazards, to proceed
instantly to Tully-Veolan, where he concluded he should see, or at least hear, something of
Rose. He therefore left a letter for Colonel Talbot at the place agreed upon, signed by his
assumed name, and giving for his address the post-town next to the Baron's residence.

From Edinburgh to Perth he took post-horses, resolving to make the rest of his journey on foot;
a mode of travelling to which he was partial, and which had the advantage of permitting a deviation
from the road when he saw parties of military at a distance. His campaign had considerably
strengthened his constitution and improved his habits of enduring fatigue. His baggage he sent
before him as opportunity occurred.

As he advanced northward, the traces of war became visible. Broken carriages, dead horses,
unroofed cottages, trees felled for palisades, and bridges destroyed or only partially repaired--all
indicated the movements of hostile armies. In those places where the gentry were attached to
the Stuart cause, their houses seemed dismantled or deserted, the usual course of what may
be called ornamental labour was totally interrupted, and the inhabitants were seen gliding
about, with fear, sorrow, and dejection on their faces.

It was evening when he approached the village of Tully-Veolan, with feelings and sentiments--how
different from those which attended his first entrance! Then, life was so new to him that a
dull or disagreeable day was one of the greatest misfortunes which his imagination anticipated,
and it seemed to him that his time ought only to be consecrated to elegant or amusing study,
and relieved by social or youthful frolic. Now, how changed! how saddened, yet how elevated
was his character, within the course of a very few months! Danger and misfortune are rapid,
though severe teachers. 'A sadder and a wiser man,' he felt in internal confidence and mental
dignity a compensation for the gay dreams which in his case experience had so rapidly dissolved.

As he approached the village he saw, with surprise and anxiety, that a party of soldiers were
quartered near it, and, what was worse, that they seemed stationary there. This he conjectured
from a few tents which he beheld glimmering upon what was called the Common Moor. To avoid
the risk of being stopped and questioned in a place where he was so likely to be recognised,
he made a large circuit, altogether avoiding the hamlet, and approaching the upper gate of
the avenue by a by-path well known to him. A single glance announced that great changes had
taken place. One half of the gate, entirely destroyed and split up for firewood, lay in piles,
ready to be taken away; the other swung uselessly about upon its loosened hinges. The battlements
above the gate were broken and thrown down, and the carved bears, which were said to have done
sentinel's duty upon the top for centuries, now, hurled from their posts, lay among the rubbish.
The avenue was cruelly wasted. Several large trees were felled and left lying across the path;
and the cattle of the villagers, and the more rude hoofs of dragoon horses, had poached into
black mud the verdant turf which Waverley had so much admired.

Upon entering the court-yard, Edward saw the fears realised which these circumstances had excited.
The place had been sacked by the King's troops, who, in wanton mischief, had even attempted
to burn it; and though the thickness of the walls had resisted the fire, unless to a partial
extent, the stables and out-houses were totally consumed. The towers and pinnacles of the main
building were scorched and blackened; the pavement of the court broken and shattered, the doors
torn down entirely, or hanging by a single hinge, the windows dashed in and demolished, and
the court strewed with articles of furniture broken into fragments. The accessaries of ancient
distinction, to which the Baron, in the pride of his heart, had attached so much importance
and veneration, were treated with peculiar contumely. The fountain was demolished, and the
spring which had supplied it now flooded the court-yard. The stone basin seemed to be destined
for a drinking-trough for cattle, from the manner in which it was arranged upon the ground.
The whole tribe of bears, large and small, had experienced as little favour as those at the
head of the avenue, and one or two of the family pictures, which seemed to have served as targets
for the soldiers, lay on the ground in tatters. With an aching heart, as may well be imagined,
Edward viewed this wreck of a mansion so respected. But his anxiety to learn the fate of the
proprietors, and his fears as to what that fate might be, increased with every step. When he
entered upon the terrace new scenes of desolation were visible. The balustrade was broken down,
the walls destroyed, the borders overgrown with weeds, and the fruit-trees cut down or grubbed
up. In one compartment of this old-fashioned garden were two immense horse-chestnut trees,
of whose size the Baron was particularly vain; too lazy, perhaps, to cut them down, the spoilers,
with malevolent ingenuity, had mined them and placed a quantity of gunpowder in the cavity.
One had been shivered to pieces by the explosion, and the fragments lay scattered around, encumbering
the ground it had so long shadowed. The other mine had been more partial in its effect. About
one-fourth of the trunk of the tree was torn from the mass, which, mutilated and defaced on
the one side, still spread on the other its ample and undiminished boughs. [Footnote: A pair
of chestnut trees, destroyed, the one entirely and the other in part, by such a mischievous
and wanton act of revenge, grew at Invergarry Castle, the fastness of MacDonald of Glengarry.]

Amid these general marks of ravage, there were some which more particularly addressed the feelings
of Waverley. Viewing the front of the building thus wasted and defaced, his eyes naturally
sought the little balcony which more properly belonged to Rose's apartment, her troisieme,
or rather cinquieme, etage. It was easily discovered, for beneath it lay the stage-flowers
and shrubs with which it was her pride to decorate it, and which had been hurled from the bartizan;
several of her books were mingled with broken flower-pots and other remnants. Among these Waverley
distinguished one of his own, a small copy of Ariosto, and gathered it as a treasure, though
wasted by the wind and rain.

While, plunged in the sad reflections which the scene excited, he was looking around for some
one who might explain the fate of the inhabitants, he heard a voice from the interior of the
building singing, in well-remembered accents, an old Scottish song:--

    They came upon us in the night,
    And brake my bower and slew my knight;
    My servants a' for life did flee,
    And left us in extremitie.

    They slew my knight, to me sae dear;
    They slew my knight, and drave his gear;
    The moon may set, the sun may rise,
    But a deadly sleep has closed his eyes.

[Footnote: The first three couplets are from an old ballad, called the Border Widow's Lament.]

'Alas,' thought Edward, 'is it thou? Poor helpless being, art thou alone left, to gibber and
moan, and fill with thy wild and unconnected scraps of minstrelsy the halls that protected
thee?' He then called, first low, and then louder, 'Davie--Davie Gellatley!'

The poor simpleton showed himself from among the ruins of a sort of greenhouse, that once terminated
what was called the terrace- walk, but at first sight of a stranger retreated, as if in terror.
Waverley, remembering his habits, began to whistle a tune to which he was partial, which Davie
had expressed great pleasure in listening to, and had picked up from him by the ear. Our hero's
minstrelsy no more equalled that of Blondel than poor Davie resembled Coeur de Lion; but the
melody had the same effect of producing recognition. Davie again stole from his lurking-place,
but timidly, while Waverley, afraid of frightening him, stood making the most encouraging signals
he could devise. 'It's his ghaist,' muttered Davie; yet, coming nearer, he seemed to acknowledge
his living acquaintance. The poor fool himself appeared the ghost of what he had been. The
peculiar dress in which he had been attired in better days showed only miserable rags of its
whimsical finery, the lack of which was oddly supplied by the remnants of tapestried hangings,
window-curtains, and shreds of pictures with which he had bedizened his tatters. His face,
too, had lost its vacant and careless air, and the poor creature looked hollow-eyed, meagre,
half-starved, and nervous to a pitiable degree. After long hesitation, he at length approached
Waverley with some confidence, stared him sadly in the face, and said, 'A' dead and gane--a'
dead and gane.'

'Who are dead?' said Waverley, forgetting the incapacity of Davie to hold any connected discourse.

'Baron, and Bailie, and Saunders Saunderson, and Lady Rose that sang sae sweet--a' dead and
gane--dead and gane;

    But follow, follow me,
    While glowworms light the lea,
    I'll show ye where the dead should be--
      Each in his shroud,
      While winds pipe loud,
      And the red moon peeps dim through the cloud.
    Follow, follow me;
    Brave should he be
    That treads by night the dead man's lea.'

With these words, chanted in a wild and earnest tone, he made a sign to Waverley to follow
him, and walked rapidly towards the bottom of the garden, tracing the bank of the stream which,
it may be remembered, was its eastern boundary. Edward, over whom an involuntary shuddering
stole at the import of his words, followed him in some hope of an explanation. As the house
was evidently deserted, he could not expect to find among the ruins any more rational informer.

Davie, walking very fast, soon reached the extremity of the garden, and scrambled over the
ruins of the wall that once had divided it from the wooded glen in which the old tower of Tully-
Veolan was situated. He then jumped down into the bed of the stream, and, followed by Waverley,
proceeded at a great pace, climbing over some fragments of rock and turning with difficulty
round others. They passed beneath the ruins of the castle; Waverley followed, keeping up with
his guide with difficulty, for the twilight began to fall. Following the descent of the stream
a little lower, he totally lost him, but a twinkling light which he now discovered among the
tangled copse-wood and bushes seemed a surer guide. He soon pursued a very uncouth path; and
by its guidance at length reached the door of a wretched hut. A fierce barking of dogs was
at first heard, but it stilled at his approach. A voice sounded from within, and he held it
most prudent to listen before he advanced.

'Wha hast thou brought here, thou unsonsy villain, thou?' said an old woman, apparently in
great indignation. He heard Davie Gellatley in answer whistle a part of the tune by which he
had recalled himself to the simpleton's memory, and had now no hesitation to knock at the door.
There was a dead silence instantly within, except the deep growling of the dogs; and he next
heard the mistress of the hut approach the door, not probably for the sake of undoing a latch,
but of fastening a bolt. To prevent this Waverley lifted the latch himself.

In front was an old wretched-looking woman, exclaiming, 'Wha comes into folk's houses in this
gate, at this time o' the night?' On one side, two grim and half-starved deer greyhounds laid
aside their ferocity at his appearance, and seemed to recognise him. On the other side, half
concealed by the open door, yet apparently seeking that concealment reluctantly, with a cocked
pistol in his right hand and his left in the act of drawing another from his belt, stood a
tall bony gaunt figure in the remnants of a faded uniform and a beard of three weeks' growth.
It was the Baron of Bradwardine. It is unnecessary to add, that he threw aside his weapon and
greeted Waverley with a hearty embrace.

CHAPTER LXIV

COMPARING OF NOTES

Thearon's story was short, when divested of the adages and commonplaces, Latin, English, and
Scotch, with which his erudition garnished it. He insisted much upon his grief at the loss
of Edward and of Glennaquoich, fought the fields of Falkirk and Culloden, and related how,
after all was lost in the last battle, he had returned home, under the idea of more easily
finding shelter among his own tenants and on his own estate than elsewhere. A party of soldiers
had been sent to lay waste his property, for clemency was not the order of the day. Their proceedings,
however, were checked by an order from the civil court. The estate, it was found, might not
be forfeited to the crown to the prejudice of Malcolm Bradwardine of Inch-Grabbit, the heir-male,
whose claim could not be prejudiced by the Baron's attainder, as deriving no right through
him, and who, therefore, like other heirs of entail in the same situation, entered upon possession.
But, unlike many in similar circumstances, the new laird speedily showed that he intended utterly
to exclude his predecessor from all benefit or advantage in the estate, and that it was his
purpose to avail himself of the old Baron's evil fortune to the full extent. This was the more
ungenerous, as it was generally known that, from a romantic idea of not prejudicing this young
man's right as heir-male, the Baron had refrained from settling his estate on his daughter.

This selfish injustice was resented by the country people, who were partial to their old master,
and irritated against his successor. In the Baron's own words, 'The matter did not coincide
with the feelings of the commons of Bradwardine, Mr. Waverley; and the tenants were slack and
repugnant in payment of their mails and duties; and when my kinsman came to the village wi'
the new factor, Mr. James Howie, to lift the rents, some wanchancy person --I suspect John
Heatherblutter, the auld gamekeeper, that was out wi' me in the year fifteen--fired a shot
at him in the gloaming, whereby he was so affrighted, that I may say with Tullius In Catilinam,
"Abiit, evasit, erupit, effugit." He fled, sir, as one may say, incontinent to Stirling. And
now he hath advertised the estate for sale, being himself the last substitute in the entail.
And if I were to lament about sic matters, this would grieve me mair than its passing from
my immediate possession, whilk, by the course of nature, must have happened in a few years;
whereas now it passes from the lineage that should have possessed it in scecula saculorum.
But God's will be done, humana perpessi sumus. Sir John of Bradwardine--Black Sir John, as
he is called--who was the common ancestor of our house and the Inch-Grabbits, little thought
such a person would have sprung from his loins. Mean time, he has accused me to some of the
primates, the rulers for the time, as if I were a cut-throat, and an abettor of bravoes and
assassinates and coupe-jarrets. And they have sent soldiers here to abide on the estate, and
hunt me like a partridge upon the mountains, as Scripture says of good King David, or like
our valiant Sir William Wallace--not that I bring myself into comparison with either. I thought,
when I heard you at the door, they had driven the auld deer to his den at last; and so I e'en
proposed to die at bay, like a buck of the first head. But now, Janet, canna ye gie us something
for supper?' 'Ou ay, sir, I'll brander the moor-fowl that John Heatherblutter brought in this
morning; and ye see puir Davie's roasting the black hen's eggs. I daur say, Mr. Wauverley,
ye never kend that a' the eggs that were sae weel roasted at supper in the Ha'-house were aye
turned by our Davie? there's no the like o' him ony gate for powtering wi' his fingers amang
the het peat-ashes and roasting eggs.' Davie all this while lay with his nose almost in the
fire, nuzzling among the ashes, kicking his heels, mumbling to himself, turning the eggs as
they lay in the hot embers, as if to confute the proverb, that 'there goes reason to roasting
of eggs,' and justify the eulogium which poor Janet poured out upon

    Him whom she loved, her idiot boy.

'Davie's no sae silly as folk tak him for, Mr. Wauverley; he wadna hae brought you here unless
he had kend ye was a friend to his Honour; indeed the very dogs kend ye, Mr. Wauverley, for
ye was aye kind to beast and body. I can tell you a story o' Davie, wi' his Honour's leave.
His Honour, ye see, being under hiding in thae sair times--the mair's the pity--he lies a'
day, and whiles a' night, in the cove in the dern hag; but though it's a bieldy eneugh bit,
and the auld gudeman o' Corse-Cleugh has panged it wi' a kemple o' strae amaist, yet when the
country's quiet, and the night very cauld, his Honour whiles creeps doun here to get a warm
at the ingle and a sleep amang the blankets, and gangs awa in the morning. And so, ae morning,
siccan a fright as I got! Twa unlucky red-coats were up for black-fishing, or some siccan ploy--for
the neb o' them's never out o' mischief--and they just got a glisk o' his Honour as he gaed
into the wood, and banged aff a gun at him. I out like a jer-falcon, and cried--"Wad they shoot
an honest woman's poor innocent bairn?" And I fleyt at them, and threepit it was my son; and
they damned and swuir at me that it was the auld rebel, as the villains ca'd his Honour; and
Davie was in the wood, and heard the tuilzie, and he, just out o' his ain head, got up the
auld grey mantle that his Honour had flung off him to gang the faster, and he cam out o' the
very same bit o' the wood, majoring and looking about sae like his Honour, that they were clean
beguiled, and thought they had letten aff their gun at crack- brained Sawney, as they ca' him;
and they gae me saxpence, and twa saumon fish, to say naething about it. Na, na, Davie's no
just like other folk, puir fallow; but he's no sae silly as folk tak him for. But, to be sure,
how can we do eneugh for his Honour, when we and ours have lived on his ground this twa hundred
years; and when he keepit my puir Jamie at school and college, and even at the Ha'-house, till
he gaed to a better place; and when he saved me frae being ta'en to Perth as a witch--Lord
forgi'e them that would touch sic a puir silly auld body!--and has maintained puir Davie at
heck and manger maist feck o' his life?'

Waverley at length found an opportunity to interrupt Janet's narrative by an inquiry after
Miss Bradwardine.

'She's weel and safe, thank God! at the Duchran,' answered the Baron; 'the laird's distantly
related to us, and more nearly to my chaplain, Mr. Rubrick; and, though he be of Whig principles,
yet he's not forgetful of auld friendship at this time. The Bailie's doing what he can to save
something out of the wreck for puir Rose; but I doubt, I doubt, I shall never see her again,
for I maun lay my banes in some far country.'

'Hout na, your Honour,' said old Janet, 'ye were just as ill aff in the feifteen, and got the
bonnie baronie back, an' a'. And now the eggs is ready, and the muir-cock's brandered, and
there's ilk ane a trencher and some saut, and the heel o' the white loaf that cam frae the
Bailie's, and there's plenty o' brandy in the greybeard that Luckie Maclearie sent doun, and
winna ye be suppered like princes?'

'I wish one Prince, at least, of our acquaintance may be no worse off,' said the Baron to Waverley,
who joined him in cordial hopes for the safety of the unfortunate Chevalier.

They then began to talk of their future prospects. The Baron's plan was very simple. It was,
to escape to France, where, by the interest of his old friends, he hoped to get some military
employment, of which he still conceived himself capable. He invited Waverley to go with him,
a proposal in which he acquiesced, providing the interest of Colonel Talbot should fail in
procuring his pardon. Tacitly he hoped the Baron would sanction his addresses to Rose, and
give him a right to assist him in his exile; but he forbore to speak on this subject until
his own fate should be decided. They then talked of Glennaquoich, for whom the Baron expressed
great anxiety, although, he observed, he was 'the very Achilles of Horatius Flaccus,--

Impiger, iracundus, inexorabilis, acer; which,' he continued, 'has been thus rendered (vernacularly)
by Struan Robertson:--

    A fiery etter-cap, a fractious chiel,
    As het as ginger, and as stieve as steel.'

Flora had a large and unqualified share of the good old man's sympathy.

It was now wearing late. Old Janet got into some kind of kennel behind the hallan; Davie had
been long asleep and snoring between Ban and Buscar. These dogs had followed him to the hut
after the mansion-house was deserted, and there constantly resided; and their ferocity, with
the old woman's reputation of being a witch, contributed a good deal to keep visitors from
the glen. With this view, Bailie Macwheeble provided Janet underhand with meal for their maintenance,
and also with little articles of luxury for his patron's use, in supplying which much precaution
was necessarily used. After some compliments, the Baron occupied his usual couch, and Waverley
reclined in an easy chair of tattered velvet, which had once garnished the state bed-room of
Tully-Veolan (for the furniture of this mansion was now scattered through all the cottages
in the vicinity), and went to sleep as comfortably as if he had been in a bed of down.

CHAPTER LXV

MORE EXPLANATION

With the first dawn of day, old Janet was scuttling about the house to wake the Baron, who
usually slept sound and heavily.

'I must go back,' he said to Waverley,'to my cove; will you walk down the glen wi' me?' They
went out together, and followed a narrow and entangled foot-path, which the occasional passage
of anglers or wood-cutters had traced by the side of the stream. On their way the Baron explained
to Waverley that he would be under no danger in remaining a day or two at Tully-Veolan, and
even in being seen walking about, if he used the precaution of pretending that he was looking
at the estate as agent or surveyor for an English gentleman who designed to be purchaser. With
this view he recommended to him to visit the Bailie, who still lived at the factor's house,
called Little Veolan, about a mile from the village, though he was to remove at next term.
Stanley's passport would be an answer to the officer who commanded the military; and as to
any of the country people who might recognise Waverley, the Baron assured him he was in no
danger of being betrayed by them.

'I believe,' said the old man, 'half the people of the barony know that their poor auld laird
is somewhere hereabout; for I see they do not suffer a single bairn to come here a bird-nesting;
a practice whilk, when I was in full possession of my power as baron, I was unable totally
to inhibit. Nay, I often find bits of things in my way, that the poor bodies, God help them!
leave there, because they think they may be useful to me. I hope they will get a wiser master,
and as kind a one as I was.'

A natural sigh closed the sentence; but the quiet equanimity with which the Baron endured his
misfortunes had something in it venerable and even sublime. There was no fruitless repining,
no turbid melancholy; he bore his lot, and the hardships which it involved, with a good-humored,
though serious composure, and used no violent language against the prevailing party.

'I did what I thought my duty,' said the good old man, 'and questionless they are doing what
they think theirs. It grieves me sometimes to look upon these blackened walls of the house
of my ancestors; but doubtless officers cannot always keep the soldier's hand from depredation
and spuilzie, and Gustavus Adolphus himself, as ye may read in Colonel Munro his "Expedition
with the Worthy Scotch Regiment called Mackay's Regiment" did often permit it. Indeed I have
myself seen as sad sights as Tully-Veolan now is when I served with the Marechal Duke of Berwick.
To be sure we may say with Virgilius Maro, Fuimus Troes--and there's the end of an auld sang.
But houses and families and men have a' stood lang eneugh when they have stood till they fall
with honour; and now I hae gotten a house that is not unlike a domus ultima'--they were now
standing below a steep rock. 'We poor Jacobites,' continued the Baron, looking up, 'are now
like the conies in Holy Scripture (which the great traveller Pococke calleth Jerboa), a feeble
people, that make our abode in the rocks. So, fare you well, my good lad, till we meet at Janet's
in the even; for I must get into my Patmos, which is no easy matter for my auld stiff limbs.'

With that he began to ascend the rock, striding, with the help of his hands, from one precarious
footstep to another, till he got about half-way up, where two or three bushes concealed the
mouth of a hole, resembling an oven, into which the Baron insinuated, first his head and shoulders,
and then, by slow gradation, the rest of his l ong body; his legs and feet finally disappearing,
coiled up like a huge snake entering his retreat, or a long pedigree introduced with care and
difficulty into the narrow pigeon-hole of an old cabinet. Waverley had the curiosity to clamber
up and look in upon him in his den, as the lurking-place might well be termed. Upon the whole,
he looked not unlike that ingenious puzzle called 'a reel in a bottle,' the marvel of children
(and of some grown people too, myself for one), who can neither comprehend the mysteryhowit
has got in or how it is to be taken out. The cave was very narrow, too low in the roof to admit
of his standing, or almost of his sitting up, though he made some awkward attempts at the latter
posture. His sole amusement was the perusal of his old friend Titus Livius, varied by occasionally
scratching Latin proverbs and texts of Scripture with his knife on the roof and walls of his
fortalice, which were of sandstone. As the cave was dry, and filled with clean straw and withered
fern, 'it made,' as he said, coiling himself up with an air of snugness and comfort which contrasted
strangely with his situation, 'unless when the wind was due north, a very passable gite for
an old soldier.' Neither, as he observed, was he without sentries for the purpose of reconnoitring.
Davie and his mother were constantly on the watch to discover and avert danger; and it was
singular what instances of address seemed dictated by the instinctive attachment of the poor
simpleton when his patron's safety was concerned.

With Janet, Edward now sought an interview. He had recognised her at first sight as the old
woman who had nursed him during his sickness after his delivery from Gifted Gilfillan. The
hut also, although a little repaired and somewhat better furnished, was certainly the place
of his confinement; and he now recollected on the common moor of Tully-Veolan the trunk of
a large decayed tree, called the try sting-tree, which he had no doubt was the same at which
the Highlanders rendezvoused on that memorable night. All this he had combined in his imagination
the night before; but reasons which may probably occur to the reader prevented him from catechising
Janet in the presence of the Baron.

He now commenced the task in good earnest; and the first question was, Who was the young lady
that visited the hut during his illness? Janet paused for a little; and then observed, that
to keep the secret now would neither do good nor ill to anybody.

' It was just a leddy that hasna her equal in the world--Miss Rose Bradwardine!'

'Then Miss Rose was probably also the author of my deliverance,' inferred Waverley, delighted
at the confirmation of an idea which local circumstances had already induced him to entertain.

'I wot weel, Mr. Wauverley, and that was she e'en; but sair, sair angry and affronted wad she
hae been, puir thing, if she had thought ye had been ever to ken a word about the matter; for
she gar'd me speak aye Gaelic when ye was in hearing, to mak ye trow we were in the Hielands.
I can speak it weil eneugh, for my mother was a Hieland woman.'

A few more questions now brought out the whole mystery respecting Waverley's deliverance from
the bondage in which he left Cairnvreckan. Never did music sound sweeter to an amateur than
the drowsy tautology with which old Janet detailed every circumstance thrilled upon the ears
of Waverley. But my reader is not a lover and I must spare his patience, by attempting to condense
within reasonable compass the narrative which old Janet spread through a harangue of nearly
two hours.

When Waverley communicated to Fergus the letter he had received from Rose Bradwardine by Davie
Gellatley, giving an account of Tully-Veolan being occupied by a small party of soldiers, that
circumstance had struck upon the busy and active mind of the Chieftain. Eager to distress and
narrow the posts of the enemy, desirous to prevent their establishing a garrison so near him,
and willing also to oblige the Baron--for he often had the idea of marriage with Rose floating
through his brain--he resolved to send some of his people to drive out the red-coats and to
bring Rose to Glennaquoich. But just as he had ordered Evan with a small party on this duty,
the news of Cope's having marched into the Highlands, to meet and disperse the forces of the
Chevalier ere they came to a head, obliged him to join the standard with his whole forces.

He sent to order Donald Bean to attend him; but that cautious freebooter, who well understood
the value of a separate command, instead of joining, sent various apologies which the pressure
of the times compelled Fergus to admit as current, though not without the internal resolution
of being revenged on him for his procrastination, time and place convenient. However, as he
could not amend the matter, he issued orders to Donald to descend into the Low Country, drive
the soldiers from Tully-Veolan, and, paying all respect to the mansion of the Baron, to take
his abode somewhere near it, for protection of his daughter and family, and to harass and drive
away any of the armed volunteers or small parties of military which he might find moving about
the vicinity. As this charge formed a sort of roving commission, which Donald proposed to interpret
in the way most advantageous to himself, as he was relieved from the immediate terrors of Fergus,
and as he had, from former secret services, some interest in the councils of the Chevalier,
he resolved to make hay while the sun shone. He achieved without difficulty the task of driving
the soldiers from Tully-Veolan; but, although he did not venture to encroach upon the interior
of the family, or to disturb Miss Rose, being unwilling to make himself a powerful enemy in
the Chevalier's army,

    For well he knew the Baron's wrath was deadly;

yet he set about to raise contributions and exactions upon the tenantry, and otherwise to turn
the war to his own advantage. Meanwhile he mounted the white cockade, and waited upon Rose
with a pretext of great devotion for the service in which her father was engaged, and many
apologies for the freedom he must necessarily use for the support of his people. It was at
this moment that Rose learned, by open-mouthed fame, with all sorts of exaggeration, that Waverley
had killed the smith at Cairnvreckan, in an attempt to arrest him; had been cast into a dungeon
by Major Melville of Cairnvreckan, and was to be executed by martial law within three days.
In the agony which these tidings excited she proposed to Donald Bean the rescue of the prisoner.
It was the very sort of service which he was desirous to undertake, judging it might constitute
a merit of such a nature as would make amends for any peccadilloes which he might be guilty
of in the country. He had the art, however, pleading all the while duty and discipline, to
hold off, until poor Rose, in the extremity of her distress, offered to bribe him to the enterprise
with some valuable jewels which had been her mother's.

Donald Bean, who had served in France, knew, and perhaps over- estimated, the value of these
trinkets. But he also perceived Rose's apprehensions of its being discovered that she had parted
with her jewels for Waverley's liberation. Resolved this scruple should not part him and the
treasure, he voluntarily offered to take an oath that he would never mention Miss Rose's share
in the transaction; and, foreseeing convenience in keeping the oath and no probable advantage
in breaking it, he took the engagement--in order, as he told his lieutenant, to deal handsomely
by the young lady--in the only mode and form which, by a mental paction with himself, he considered
as binding: he swore secrecy upon his drawn dirk. He was the more especially moved to this
act of good faith by some attentions that Miss Bradwardine showed to his daughter Alice, which,
while they gained the heart of the mountain damsel, highly gratified the pride of her father.
Alice, who could now speak a little English, was very communicative in return for Rose's kindness,
readily confided to her the whole papers respecting the intrigue with Gardiner's regiment,
of which she was the depositary, and as readily undertook, at her instance, to restore them
to Waverley without her father's knowledge. For 'they may oblige the bonnie young lady and
the handsome young gentleman,' said Alice, 'and what use has my father for a whin bits o' scarted
paper?'

The reader is aware that she took an opportunity of executing this purpose on the eve of Waverley's
leaving the glen.

How Donald executed his enterprise the reader is aware. But the expulsion of the military from
Tully-Veolan had given alarm, and while he was lying in wait for Gilfillan, a strong party,
such as Donald did not care to face, was sent to drive back the insurgents in their turn, to
encamp there, and to protect the country. The officer, a gentleman and a disciplinarian, neither
intruded himself on Miss Bradwardine, whose unprotected situation he respected, nor permitted
his soldiers to commit any breach of discipline. He formed a little camp upon an eminence near
the house of Tully-Veolan, and placed proper guards at the passes in the vicinity. This unwelcome
news reached Donald Bean Lean as he was returning to Tully-Veolan. Determined, however, to
obtain the guerdon of his labour, he resolved, since approach to Tully-Veolan was impossible,
to deposit his prisoner in Janet's cottage, a place the very existence of which could hardly
have been suspected even by those who had long lived in the vicinity, unless they had been
guided thither, and which was utterly unknown to Waverley himself. This effected, he claimed
and received his reward. Waverley's illness was an event which deranged all their calculations.
Donald was obliged to leave the neighbourhood with his people, and to seek more free course
for his adventures elsewhere. At Rose's entreaty, he left an old man, a herbalist, who was
supposed to understand a little of medicine, to attend Waverley during his illness.

In the meanwhile, new and fearful doubts started in Rose's mind. They were suggested by old
Janet, who insisted that, a reward having been offered for the apprehension of Waverley, and
his own personal effects being so valuable, there was no saying to what breach of faith Donald
might be tempted. In an agony of grief and terror, Rose took the daring resolution of explaining
to the Prince himself the danger in which Mr. Waverley stood, judging that, both as a politician
and a man of honour and humanity, Charles Edward would interest himself to prevent his falling
into the hands of the opposite party. This letter she at first thought of sending anonymously,
but naturally feared it would not in that case be credited. She therefore subscribed her name,
though with reluctance and terror, and consigned it in charge to a young man, who at leaving
his farm to join the Chevalier's army, made it his petition to her to have some sort of credentials
to the adventurer, from whom he hoped to obtain a commission.

The letter reached Charles Edward on his descent to the Lowlands, and, aware of the political
importance of having it supposed that he was in correspondence with the English Jacobites,
he caused the most positive orders to be transmitted to Donald Bean Lean to transmit Waverley,
safe and uninjured, in person or effects, to the governor of Doune Castle. The freebooter durst
not disobey, for the army of the Prince was now so near him that punishment might have followed;
besides, he was a politician as well as a robber, and was unwilling to cancel the interest
created through former secret services by being refractory on this occasion. He therefore made
a virtue of necessity, and transmitted orders to his lieutenant to convey Edward to Doune,
which was safely accomplished in the mode mentioned in a former chapter. The governor of Doune
was directed to send him to Edinburgh as a prisoner, because the Prince was apprehensive that
Waverley, if set at liberty, might have resumed his purpose of returning to England, without
affording him an opportunity of a personal interview. In this, indeed, he acted by the advice
of the Chieftain of Glennaquoich, with whom it may be remembered the Chevalier communicated
upon the mode of disposing of Edward, though without telling him how he came to learn the place
of his confinement.

This, indeed, Charles Edward considered as a lady's secret; for although Rose's letter was
couched in the most cautious and general terms, and professed to be written merely from motives
of humanity and zeal for the Prince's service, yet she expressed so anxious a wish that she
should not be known to have interfered, that the Chevalier was induced to suspect the deep
interest which she took in Waverley's safety. This conjecture, which was well founded, led,
however, to false inferences. For the emotion which Edward displayed on approaching Flora and
Rose at the ball of Holyrood was placed by the Chevalier to the account of the latter; and
he concluded that the Baron's views about the settlement of his property, or some such obstacle,
thwarted their mutual inclinations. Common fame, it is true, frequently gave Waverley to Miss
Mac-Ivor; but the Prince knew that common fame is very prodigal in such gifts; and, watching
attentively the behaviour of the ladies towards Waverley, he had no doubt that the young Englishman
had no interest with Flora, and was beloved by Rose Bradwardine. Desirous to bind Waverley
to his service, and wishing also to do a kind and friendly action, the Prince next assailed
the Baron on the subject of settling his estate upon his daughter. Mr. Bradwardine acquiesced;
but the consequence was that Fergus was immediately induced to prefer his double suit for a
wife and an earldom, which the Prince rejected in the manner we have seen. The Chevalier, constantly
engaged in his own multiplied affairs, had not hitherto sought any explanation with Waverley,
though often meaning to do so. But after Fergus's declaration he saw the necessity of appearing
neutral between the rivals, devoutly hoping that the matter, which now seemed fraught with
the seeds of strife, might be permitted to lie over till the termination of the expedition.
When, on the march to Derby, Fergus, being questioned concerning his quarrel with Waverley,
alleged as the cause that Edward was desirous of retracting the suit he had made to his sister,
the Chevalier plainly told him that he had himself observed Miss Mac-Ivor's behaviour to Waverley,
and that he was convinced Fergus was under the influence of a mistake in judging of Waverley's
conduct, who, he had every reason to believe, was engaged to Miss Bradwardine. The quarrel
which ensued between Edward and the Chieftain is, I hope, still in the remembrance of the reader.
These circumstances will serve to explain such points of our narrative as, according to the
custom of story-tellers, we deemed it fit to leave unexplained, for the purpose of exciting
the reader's curiosity.

When Janet had once finished the leading facts of this narrative, Waverley was easily enabled
to apply the clue which they afforded to other mazes of the labyrinth in which he had been
engaged. To Rose Bradwardine, then, he owed the life which he now thought he could willingly
have laid down to serve her. A little reflection convinced him, however, that to live for her
sake was more convenient and agreeable, and that, being possessed of independence, she might
share it with him either in foreign countries or in his own. The pleasure of being allied to
a man of the Baron's high worth, and who was so much valued by his uncle Sir Everard, was also
an agreeable consideration, had anything been wanting to recommend the match. His absurdities,
which had appeared grotesquely ludicrous during his prosperity, seemed, in the sunset of his
fortune, to be harmonised and assimilated with the noble features of his character, so as to
add peculiarity without exciting ridicule. His mind occupied with such projects of future happiness,
Edward sought Little Veolan, the habitation of Mr. Duncan Macwheeble.

CHAPTER LXVI

    Now is Cupid a child of conscience--he makes restitution.

    SHAKSPEARE

Mr. Duncan MacWheeble, no longer Commissary or Bailie, though still enjoying the empty name
of the latter dignity, had escaped proscription by an early secession from the insurgent party
and by his insignificance.

Edward found him in his office, immersed among papers and accounts. Before him was a large
bicker of oatmeal porridge, and at the side thereof a horn spoon and a bottle of two-penny.
Eagerly running his eye over a voluminous law-paper, he from time to time shovelled an immense
spoonful of these nutritive viands into his capacious mouth. A pot-bellied Dutch bottle of
brandy which stood by intimated either that this honest limb of the law had taken his morning
already, or that he meant to season his porridge with such digestive; or perhaps both circumstances
might reasonably be inferred. His night-cap and morning-gown, had whilome been of tartan, but,
equally cautious and frugal, the honest Bailie had got them dyed black, lest their original
ill- omened colour might remind his visitors of his unlucky excursion to Derby. To sum up the
picture, his face was daubed with snuff up to the eyes, and his fingers with ink up to the
knuckles. He looked dubiously at Waverley as he approached the little green rail which fenced
his desk and stool from the approach of the vulgar. Nothing could give the Bailie more annoyance
than the idea of his acquaintance being claimed by any of the unfortunate gentlemen who were
now so much more likely to need assistance than to afford profit. But this was the rich young
Englishman; who knew what might be his situation? He was the Baron's friend too; what was to
be done?

While these reflections gave an air of absurd perplexity to the poor man's visage, Waverley,
reflecting on the communication he was about to make to him, of a nature so ridiculously contrasted
with the appearance of the individual, could not help bursting out a-laughing, as he checked
the propensity to exclaim with Syphax--

    Cato's a proper person to intrust
    A love-tale with.

As Mr. Macwheeble had no idea of any person laughing heartily who was either encircled by peril
or oppressed by poverty, the hilarity of Edward's countenance greatly relieved the embarrassment
of his own, and, giving him a tolerably hearty welcome to Little Veolan, he asked what he would
choose for breakfast. His visitor had, in the first place, something for his private ear, and
begged leave to bolt the door. Duncan by no means liked this precaution, which savoured of
danger to be apprehended; but he could not now draw back.

Convinced he might trust this man, as he could make it his interest to be faithful, Edward
communicated his present situation and future schemes to Macwheeble. The wily agent listened
with apprehension when he found Waverley was still in a state of proscription; was somewhat
comforted by learning that he had a passport; rubbed his hands with glee when he mentioned
the amount of his present fortune; opened huge eyes when he heard the brilliancy of his future
expectations; but when he expressed his intention to share them with Miss Rose Bradwardine,
ecstasy had almost deprived the honest man of his senses. The Bailie started from his three-footed
stool like the Pythoness from her tripod; flung his best wig out of the window, because the
block on which it was placed stood in the way of his career; chucked his cap to the ceiling,
caught it as it fell; whistled 'Tullochgorum'; danced a Highland fling with inimitable grace
and agility, and then threw himself exhausted into a chair, exclaiming, 'Lady Wauverley! ten
thousand a year the least penny! Lord preserve my poor understanding!'

'Amen with all my heart,' said Waverley; 'but now, Mr. Macwheeble, let us proceed to business.'
This word had somewhat a sedative effect, but the Bailie's head, as he expressed himself, was
still 'in the bees.' He mended his pen, however, marked half a dozen sheets of paper with an
ample marginal fold, whipped down Dallas of St. Martin's 'Styles' from a shelf, where that
venerable work roosted with Stair's 'Institutions,' Dirleton's 'Doubts,' Balfour's 'Practiques,'
and a parcel of old account-books, opened the volume at the article Contract of Marriage, and
prepared to make what he called a'sma' minute to prevent parties frae resiling.'

With some difficulty Waverley made him comprehend that he was going a little too fast. He explained
to him that he should want his assistance, in the first place, to make his residence safe for
the time, by writing to the officer at Tully-Veolan that Mr. Stanley, an English gentleman
nearly related to Colonel Talbot, was upon a visit of business at Mr. Macwheeble's, and, knowing
the state of the country, had sent his passport for Captain Foster's inspection. This produced
a polite answer from the officer, with an invitation to Mr. Stanley to dine with him, which
was declined (as may easily be supposed) under pretence of business.

Waverley's next request was, that Mr. Macwheeble would despatch a man and horse to----, the
post-town at which Colonel Talbot was to address him, with directions to wait there until the
post should bring a letter for Mr. Stanley, and then to forward it to Little Veolan with all
speed. In a moment the Bailie was in search of his apprentice (or servitor, as he was called
Sixty Years Since), Jock Scriever, and in not much greater space of time Jock was on the back
of the white pony. 'Tak care ye guide him weel, sir, for he's aye been short in the wind since--ahem--Lord
be gude to me! (in a low voice), I was gaun to come out wi'--since I rode whip and spur to
fetch the Chevalier to redd Mr. Wauverley and Vich lan Vohr; and an uncanny coup I gat for
my pains. Lord forgie your honour! I might hae broken my neck; but troth it was in a venture,
mae ways nor ane; but this maks amends for a'. Lady Wauverley! ten thousand a year! Lord be
gude unto me!'

'But you forget, Mr. Macwheeble, we want the Baron's consent--the lady's--'

'Never fear, I'se be caution for them; I'se gie you my personal warrandice. Ten thousand a
year! it dings Balmawhapple out and out--a year's rent's worth a' Balmawhapple, fee and life-rent!
Lord make us thankful!'

To turn the current of his feelings, Edward inquired if he had heard anything lately of the
Chieftain of Glennaquoich.

'Not one word,' answered Macwheeble, 'but that he was still in Carlisle Castle, and was soon
to be panelled for his life. I dinna wish the young gentleman ill,' he said, 'but I hope that
they that hae got him will keep him, and no let him back to this Hieland border to plague us
wi' black-mail and a' manner o' violent, wrongous, and masterfu' oppression and spoliation,
both by himself and others of his causing, sending, and hounding out; and he couldna tak care
o' the siller when he had gotten it neither, but flung it a' into yon idle quean's lap at Edinburgh;
but light come light gane. For my part, I never wish to see a kilt in the country again, nor
a red-coat, nor a gun, for that matter, unless it were to shoot a paitrick; they're a' tarr'd
wi' ae stick. And when they have done ye wrang, even when ye hae gotten decreet of spuilzie,
oppression, and violent profits against them, what better are ye? They hae na a plack to pay
ye; ye need never extract it.'

With such discourse, and the intervening topics of business, the time passed until dinner,
Macwheeble meanwhile promising to devise some mode of introducing Edward at the Duchran, where
Rose at present resided, without risk of danger or suspicion; which seemed no very easy task,
since the laird was a very zealous friend to government. The poultry-yard had been laid under
requisition, and cockyleeky and Scotch collops soon reeked in the Bailie's little parlour.
The landlord's cork-screw was just introduced into the muzzle of a pint bottle of claret (cribbed
possibly from the cellars of Tully-Veolan), when the sight of the grey pony passing the window
at full trot induced the Bailie, but with due precaution, to place it aside for the moment.
Enter Jock Scriever with a packet for Mr. Stanley; it is Colonel Talbot's seal, and Edward's
ringers tremble as he undoes it. Two official papers, folded, signed, and sealed in all formality,
drop out. They were hastily picked up by the Bailie, who had a natural respect for everything
resembling a deed, and, glancing slily on their titles, his eyes, or rather spectacles, are
greeted with 'Protection by his Royal Highness to the person of Cosmo Comyne Bradwardine, Esq.,
of that ilk, commonly called Baron of Bradwardine, forfeited for his accession to the late
rebellion.' The other proves to be a protection of the same tenor in favour of Edward Waverley,
Esq. Colonel Talbot's letter was in these words:--

'My DEAR EDWARD,

'I am just arrived here, and yet I have finished my business; it has cost me some trouble though,
as you shall hear. I waited upon his Royal Highness immediately on my arrival, and found him
in no very good humour for my purpose. Three or four Scotch gentlemen were just leaving his
levee. After he had expressed himself to me very courteously; "Would you think it," he said,
"Talbot, here have been half a dozen of the most respectable gentlemen and best friends to
government north of the Forth, Major Melville of Cairnvreckan, Rubrick of Duchran, and others,
who have fairly wrung from me, by their downright importunity, a present protection and the
promise of a future pardon for that stubborn old rebel whom they call Baron of Bradwardine.
They allege that his high personal character, and the clemency which he showed to such of our
people as fell into the rebels' hands, should weigh in his favour, especially as the loss of
his estate is likely to be a severe enough punishment. Rubrick has undertaken to keep him at
his own house till things are settled in the country; but it's a little hard to be forced in
a manner to pardon such a mortal enemy to the House of Brunswick." This was no favourable moment
for opening my business; however, I said I was rejoiced to learn that his Royal Highness was
in the course of granting such requests, as it emboldened me to present one of the like nature
in my own name. He was very angry, but I persisted; I mentioned the uniform support of our
three votes in, the house, touched modestly on services abroad, though valuable only in his
Royal Highness's having been pleased kindly to accept them, and founded pretty strongly on
his own expressions of friendship and good-will. He was embarrassed, but obstinate. I hinted
the policy of detaching, on all future occasions, the heir of such a fortune as your uncle's
from the machinations of the disaffected. But I made no impression. I mentioned the obligations
which I lay under to Sir Everard and to you personally, and claimed, as the sole reward of
my services, that he would be pleased to afford me the means of evincing my gratitude. I perceived
that he still meditated a refusal, and, taking my commission from my pocket, I said (as a last
resource) that, as his Royal Highness did not, under these pressing circumstances, think me
worthy of a favour which he had not scrupled to grant to other gentlemen whose services I could
hardly judge more important than my own, I must beg leave to deposit, with all humility, my
commission in his Royal Highness's hands, and to retire from the service. He was not prepared
for this; he told me to take up my commission, said some handsome things of my services, and
granted my request. You are therefore once more a free man, and I have promised for you that
you will be a good boy in future, and remember what you owe to the lenity of government. Thus
you see my prince can be as generous as yours. I do not pretend, indeed, that he confers a
favour with all the foreign graces and compliments of your Chevalier errant; but he has a plain
English manner, and the evident reluctance with which he grants your request indicates the
sacrifice which he makes of his own inclination to your wishes. My friend, the adjutant- general,
has procured me a duplicate of the Baron's protection (the original being in Major Melville's
possession), which I send to you, as I know that if you can find him you will have pleasure
in being the first to communicate the joyful intelligence. He will of course repair to the
Duchran without loss of time, there to ride quarantine for a few weeks. As for you, I give
you leave to escort him thither, and to stay a week there, as I understand a certain fair lady
is in that quarter. And I have the pleasure to tell you that whatever progress you can make
in her good graces will be highly agreeable to Sir Everard and Mrs. Rachel, who will never
believe your views and prospects settled, and the three ermines passant in actual safety, until
you present them with a Mrs. Edward Waverley. Now, certain love-affairs of my own--a good many
years since--interrupted some measures which were then proposed in favour of the three ermines
passant; so I am bound in honour to make them amends. Therefore make good use of your time,
for, when your week is expired, it will be necessary that you go to London to plead your pardon
in the law courts.

'Ever, dear Waverley, yours most truly, 'PHILIP TALBOT.'

CHAPTER LXVII

    Happy's the wooing
    That's not long a doing

When the first rapturous sensation occasioned by these excellent tidings had somewhat subsided,
Edward proposed instantly to go down to the glen to acquaint the Baron with their import. But
the cautious Bailie justly observed that, if the Baron were to appear instantly in public,
the tenantry and villagers might become riotous in expressing their joy, and give offence to
'the powers that be,' a sort of persons for whom the Bailie always had unlimited respect. He
therefore proposed that Mr. Waverley should go to Janet Gellatley's and bring the Baron up
under cloud of night to Little Veolan, where he might once more enjoy the luxury of a good
bed. In the meanwhile, he said, he himself would go to Captain Foster and show him the Baron's
protection, and obtain his countenance for harbouring him that night, and he would have horses
ready on the morrow to set him on his way to the Duchran along with Mr. Stanley, 'whilk denomination,
I apprehend, your honour will for the present retain,' said the Bailie.

'Certainly, Mr. Macwheeble; but will you not go down to the glen yourself in the evening to
meet your patron?'

'That I wad wi' a' my heart; and mickle obliged to your honour for putting me in mind o' mybounden
duty. But it will be past sunset afore I get back frae the Captain's, and at these unsonsy
hours the glen has a bad name; there's something no that canny about auld Janet Gellatley.
The Laird he'll no believe thae things, but he was aye ower rash and venturesome, and feared
neither man nor deevil, an sae's seen o't. But right sure am I Sir George Mackenyie says, that
no divine can doubt there are witches, since the Bible says thou shalt not suffer them to live;
and that no lawyer in Scotland can doubt it, since it is punishable with death by our law.
So there's baith law and gospel for it. An his honour winna believe the Leviticus, he might
aye believe the Statute- book; but he may tak his ain way o't; it's a' ane to Duncan Macwheeble.
However, I shall send to ask up auld Janet this e'en; it's best no to lightly them that have
that character; and we'll want Davie to turn the spit, for I'll gar Eppie put down a fat goose
to the fire for your honours to your supper.'

When it was near sunset Waverley hastened to the hut; and he could not but allow that superstition
had chosen no improper locality, or unfit object, for the foundation of her fantastic terrors.
It resembled exactly the description of Spenser:--

    There, in a gloomy hollow glen, she found
    A little cottage built of sticks and reeds,
    In homely wise, and wall'd with sods around,
    In which a witch did dwell in loathly weeds,
    And wilful want, all careless of her needs,
    So choosing solitary to abide
    Far from all neighbours, that her devilish deeds,
    And hellish arts, from people she might hide,
    And hurt far off, unknown, whomsoever she espied.

He entered the cottage with these verses in his memory. Poor old Janet, bent double with age
and bleared with peat-smoke, was tottering about the hut with a birch broom, muttering to herself
as she endeavoured to make her hearth and floor a little clean for the reception of her expected
guests. Waverley's step made her start, look up, and fall a-trembling, so much had her nerves
been on the rack for her patron's safety. With difficulty Waverley made her comprehend that
the Baron was now safe from personal danger; and when her mind had admitted that joyful news,
it was equally hard to make her believe that he was not to enter again upon possession of his
estate. 'It behoved to be,' she said, 'he wad get it back again; naebody wad be sae gripple
as to tak his gear after they had gi'en him a pardon: and for that Inch-Grabbit, I could whiles
wish mysell a witch for his sake, if I werena feared the Enemy wad tak me at my word.' Waverley
then gave her some money, and promised that her fidelity should be rewarded. 'How can I be
rewarded, sir, sae weel as just to see my auld maister and Miss Rose come back and bruik their
ain?'

Waverley now took leave of Janet, and soon stood beneath the Baron's Patmos. At a low whistle
he observed the veteran peeping out to reconnoitre, like an old badger with his head out of
his hole. 'Ye hae come rather early, my good lad,' said he, descending; 'I question if the
red-coats hae beat the tattoo yet, and we're not safe till then.'

'Good news cannot be told too soon,' said Waverley; and with infinite joy communicated to him
the happy tidings. The old man stood for a moment in silent devotion, then exclaimed, 'Praise
be to God! I shall see my bairn again.'

'And never, I hope, to part with her more,' said Waverley.

'I trust in God not, unless it be to win the means of supporting her; for my things are but
in a bruckle state;--but what signifies warld's gear?'

'And if,' said Waverley modestly, 'there were a situation in life which would put Miss Bradwardine
beyond the uncertainty of fortune, and in the rank to which she was born, would you object
to it, my dear Baron, because it would make one of your friends the happiest man in the world?'
The Baron turned and looked at him with great earnestness. 'Yes,' continued Edward, 'I shall
not consider my sentence of banishment as repealed unless you will give me permission to accompany
you to the Duchran, and--'

The Baron seemed collecting all his dignity to make a suitable reply to what, at another time,
he would have treated as the propounding a treaty of alliance between the houses of Bradwardine
and Waverley. But his efforts were in vain; the father was too mighty for the Baron; the pride
of birth and rank were swept away; in the joyful surprise a slight convulsion passed rapidly
over his features, as he gave way to the feelings of nature, threw his arms around Waverley's
neck, and sobbed out--'My son, my son! if I had been to search the world, I would have made
my choice here.' Edward returned the embrace with great sympathy of feeling, and for a little
while they both kept silence. At length it was broken by Edward. 'But Miss Bradwardine?'

'She had never a will but her old father's; besides, you are a likely youth, of honest principles
and high birth; no, she never had any other will than mine, and in my proudest days I could
not have wished a mair eligible espousal for her than the nephew of my excellent old friend,
Sir Everard. But I hope, young man, ye deal na rashly in this matter? I hope ye hae secured
the approbation of your ain friends and allies, particularly of your uncle, who is in loco
parentis? Ah! we maun tak heed o' that.' Edward assured him that Sir Everard would think himself
highly honoured in the flattering reception his proposal had met with, and that it had his
entire approbation; in evidence of which he put Colonel Talbot's letter into the Baron's hand.
The Baron read it with great attention. 'Sir Everard,' he said, 'always despised wealth in
comparison of honour and birth; and indeed he hath no occasion to court the Diva Pecunia. Yet
I now wish, since this Malcolm turns out such a parricide, for I can call him no better, as
to think of alienating the family inheritance--I now wish (his eyes fixed on a part of the
roof which was visible above the trees) that I could have left Rose the auld hurley-house and
the riggs belanging to it. And yet,' said he, resuming more cheerfully, 'it's maybe as weel
as it is; for, as Baron of Bradwardine, I might have thought it my duty to insist upon certain
compliances respecting name and bearings, whilk now, as a landless laird wi' a tocherless daughter,
no one can blame me for departing from.'

'Now, Heaven be praised!' thought Edward,'that Sir Everard does not hear these scruples! The
three ermines passant and rampant bear would certainly have gone together by the ears.' He
then, with all the ardour of a young lover, assured the Baron that he sought for his happiness
only in Rose's heart and hand, and thought himself as happy in her father's simple approbation
as if he had settled an earldom upon his daughter.

They now reached Little Veolan. The goose was smoking on the table, and the Bailie brandished
his knife and fork. A joyous greeting took place between him and his patron. The kitchen, too,
had its company. Auld Janet was established at the ingle-nook; Davie had turned the spit to
his immortal honour; and even Ban and Buscar, in the liberality of Macwheeble's joy, had been
stuffed to the throat with food, and now lay snoring on the floor.

The next day conducted the Baron and his young friend to the Duchran, where the former was
expected, in consequence of the success of the nearly unanimous application of the Scottish
friends of government in his favour. This had been so general and so powerful that it was almost
thought his estate might have been saved, had it not passed into the rapacious hands of his
unworthy kinsman, whose right, arising out of the Baron's attainder, could not be affected
by a pardon from the crown. The old gentleman, however, said, with his usual spirit, he was
more gratified by the hold he possessed in the good opinion of his neighbours than he would
have been in being rehabilitated and restored in integrum, had it been found practicable.'

We shall not attempt to describe the meeting of the father and daughter, loving each other
so affectionately, and separated under such perilous circumstances. Still less shall we attempt
to analyse the deep blush of Rose at receiving the compliments of Waverley, or stop to inquire
whether she had any curiosity respecting the particular cause of his journey to Scotland at
that period. We shall not even trouble the reader with the humdrum details of a courtship Sixty
Years Since. It is enough to say that, under so strict a martinet as the Baron, all things
were conducted in due form. He took upon himself, the morning after their arrival, the task
of announcing the proposal of Waverley to Rose, which she heard with a proper degree of maiden
timidity. Fame does, however, say that Waverley had the evening before found five minutes to
apprise her of what was coming, while the rest of the company were looking at three twisted
serpents which formed a, jet d'eau in the garden.

My fair readers will judge for themselves; but, for my part, I cannot conceive how so important
an affair could be communicated in so short a space of time; at least, it certainly took a
full hour in the Baron's mode of conveying it.

Waverley was now considered as a received lover in all the forms. He was made, by dint of smirking
and nodding on the part of the lady of the house, to sit next Miss Bradwardine at dinner, to
be Miss Bradwardine's partner at cards. If he came into the room, she of the four Miss Rubricks
who chanced to be next Rose was sure to recollect that her thimble or her scissors were at
the other end of the room, in order to leave the seat nearest to Miss Bradwardine vacant for
his occupation. And sometimes, if papa and mamma were not in the way to keep them on their
good behaviour, the misses would titter a little. The old Laird of Duchran would also have
his occasional jest, and the old lady her remark. Even the Baron could not refrain; but here
Rose escaped every embarrassment but that of conjecture, for his wit was usually couched in
a Latin quotation. The very footmen sometimes grinned too broadly, the maidservants giggled
mayhap too loud, and a provoking air of intelligence seemed to pervade the whole family. Alice
Bean, the pretty maid of the cavern, who, after her father's misfortune, as she called it,
had attended Rose as fille-de- chambre, smiled and smirked with the best of them. Rose and
Edward, however, endured all these little vexatious circumstances as other folks have done
before and since, and probably contrived to obtain some indemnification, since they are not
supposed, on the whole, to have been particularly unhappy during Waverley's six days' stay
at the Duchran.

It was finally arranged that Edward should go to Waverley-Honour to make the necessary arrangements
for his marriage, thence to London to take the proper measures for pleading his pardon, and
return as soon as possible to claim the hand of his plighted bride. He also intended in his
journey to visit Colonel Talbot; but, above all, it was his most important object to learn
the fate of the unfortunate Chief of Glennaquoich; to visit him at Carlisle, and to try whether
anything could be done for procuring, if not a pardon, a commutation at least, or alleviation,
of the punishment to which he was almost certain of being condemned; and, in case of the worst,
to offer the miserable Flora an asylum with Rose, or otherwise to assist her views in any mode
which might seem possible. The fate of Fergus seemed hard to be averted. Edward had already
striven to interest his friend, Colonel Talbot, in his behalf; but had been given distinctly
to understand by his reply that his credit in matters of that nature was totally exhausted.

The Colonel was still in Edinburgh, and proposed to wait there for some months upon business
confided to him by the Duke of Cumberland. He was to be joined by Lady Emily, to whom easy
travelling and goat's whey were recommended, and who was to journey northward under the escort
of Francis Stanley. Edward, therefore, met the Colonel at Edinburgh, who wished him joy in
the kindest manner on his approaching happiness, and cheerfully undertook many commissions
which our hero was necessarily obliged to delegate to his charge. But on the subject of Fergus
he was inexorable. He satisfied Edward, indeed, that his interference would be unavailing;
but, besides, Colonel Talbot owned that he could not conscientiously use any influence in favour
of that unfortunate gentleman. 'Justice,' he said, 'which demanded some penalty of those who
had wrapped the whole nation in fear and in mourning, could not perhaps have selected a fitter
victim. He came to the field with the fullest light upon the nature of his attempt. He had
studied and understood the subject. His father's fate could not intimidate him; the lenity
of the laws which had restored to him his father's property and rights could not melt him.
That he was brave, generous, and possessed many good qualities only rendered him the more dangerous;
that he was enlightened and accomplished made his crime the less excusable; that he was an
enthusiast in a wrong cause only made him the more fit to be its martyr. Above all, he had
been the means of bringing many hundreds of men into the field who, without him, would never
have broken the peace of the country.

'I repeat it,' said the Colonel,'though Heaven knows with a heart distressed for him as an
individual, that this young gentleman has studied and fully understood the desperate game which
he has played. He threw for life or death, a coronet or a coffin; and he cannot now be permitted,
with justice to the country, to draw stakes because the dice have gone against him.'

Such was the reasoning of those times, held even by brave and humane men towards a vanquished
enemy. Let us devoutly hope that, in this respect at least, we shall never see the scenes or
hold the sentiments that were general in Britain Sixty Years Since.

CHAPTER LXVIII

    To morrow? O that's sudden!--Spare him, spare him'

    SHAKSPEARE

Edward, attended by his former servant Alick Polwarth, who had reentered his service at Edinburgh,
reached Carlisle while the commission of Oyer and Terminer on his unfortunate associates was
yet sitting. He had pushed forward in haste, not, alas! with the most distant hope of saving
Fergus, but to see him for the last time. I ought to have mentioned that he had furnished funds
for the defence of the prisoners in the most liberal manner, as soon as he heard that the day
of trial was fixed. A solicitor and the first counsel accordingly attended; but it was upon
the same footing on which the first physicians are usually summoned to the bedside of some
dying man of rank--the doctors to take the advantage of some incalculable chance of an exertion
of nature, the lawyers to avail themselves of the barely possible occurrence of some legal
flaw. Edward pressed into the court, which was extremely crowded; but by his arriving from
the north, and his extreme eagerness and agitation, it was supposed he was a relation of the
prisoners, and people made way for him. It was the third sitting of the court, and there were
two men at the bar. The verdict of GUILTY was already pronounced. Edward just glanced at the
bar during the momentous pause which ensued. There was no mistaking the stately form and noble
features of Fergus Mac-Ivor, although his dress was squalid and his countenance tinged with
the sickly yellow hue of long and close imprisonment. By his side was Evan Maccombich. Edward
felt sick and dizzy as he gazed on them; but he was recalled to himself as the Clerk of Arraigns
pronounced the solemn words: 'Fergus Mac-Ivor of Glennaquoich, otherwise called Vich Ian Vohr,
and Evan Mac-Ivor, in the Dhu of Tarrascleugh, otherwise called Evan Dhu, otherwise called
Evan Maccombich, or Evan Dhu MacCombich--you, and each of you, stand attainted of high treason.
What have you to say for yourselves why the Court should not pronounce judgment against you,
that you die according to law?'

Fergus, as the presiding Judge was putting on the fatal cap of judgment, placed his own bonnet
upon his head, regarded him with a steadfast and stern look, and replied in a firm voice, 'I
cannot let this numerous audience suppose that to such an appeal I have no answer to make.
But what I have to say you would not bear to hear, for my defence would be your condemnation.
Proceed, then, in the name of God, to do what is permitted to you. Yesterday and the day before
you have condemned loyal and honourable blood to be poured forth like water. Spare not mine.
Were that of all my ancestors in my veins, I would have perilled it in this quarrel.' He resumed
his seat and refused again to rise.

Evan Maccombich looked at him with great earnestness, and, rising up, seemed anxious to speak;
but the confusion of the court, and the perplexity arising from thinking in a language different
from that in which he was to express himself, kept him silent. There was a murmur of compassion
among the spectators, from the idea that the poor fellow intended to plead the influence of
his superior as an excuse for his crime. The Judge commanded silence, and encouraged Evan to
proceed. 'I was only ganging to say, my lord,' said Evan, in what he meant to be an insinuating
manner, 'that if your excellent honour and the honourable Court would let Vich Ian Vohr go
free just this once, and let him gae back to France, and no to trouble King George's government
again, that ony six o' the very best of his clan will be willing to be justified in his stead;
and if you'll just let me gae down to Glennaquoich, I'll fetch them up to ye mysell, to head
or hang, and you may begin wi' me the very first man.'

Notwithstanding the solemnity of the occasion, a sort of laugh was heard in the court at the
extraordinary nature of the proposal.

The Judge then pronounced upon both prisoners the sentence of the law of high treason, with
all its horrible accompaniments. The execution was appointed for the ensuing day. 'For you,
Fergus Mac- Ivor,' continued the Judge, 'I can hold out no hope of mercy. You must prepare
against to-morrow for your last sufferings here, and your great audit hereafter.'

'I desire nothing else, my lord,' answered Fergus, in the same manly and firm tone.

The hard eyes of Evan, which had been perpetually bent on his Chief, were moistened with a
tear. 'For you, poor ignorant man,' continued the Judge, 'who, following the ideas in which
you have been educated, have this day given us a striking example how the loyalty due to the
king and state alone is, from your unhappy ideas of clanship, transferred to some ambitious
individual who ends by making you the tool of his crimes--for you, I say, I feel so much compassion
that, if you can make up your mind to petition for grace, I will endeavour to procure it for
you. Otherwise--'

'Grace me no grace,' said Evan; 'since you are to shed Vich Ian Vohr's blood, the only favour
I would accept from you is to bid them loose my hands and gie me my claymore, and bide you
just a minute sitting where you are!'

'Remove the prisoners,' said the Judge; 'his blood be upon his own head.'

Almost stupefied with his feelings, Edward found that the rush of the crowd had conveyed him
out into the street ere he knew what he was doing. His immediate wish was to see and speak
with Fergus once more. He applied at the Castle where his unfortunate friend was confined,
but was refused admittance. 'The High Sheriff,' a non-commissioned officer said, 'had requested
of the governor that none should be admitted to see the prisoner excepting his confessor and
his sister.'

'And where was Miss Mac-Ivor?' They gave him the direction. It was the house of a respectable
Catholic family near Carlisle.

Repulsed from the gate of the Castle, and not venturing to make application to the High Sheriff
or Judges in his own unpopular name, he had recourse to the solicitor who came down in Fergus's
behalf. This gentleman told him that it was thought the public mind was in danger of being
debauched by the account of the last moments of these persons, as given by the friends of the
Pretender; that there had been a resolution, therefore, to exclude all such persons as had
not the plea of near kindred for attending upon them. Yet he promised (to oblige the heir of
Waverley-Honour) to get him an order for admittance to the prisoner the next morning, before
his irons were knocked off for execution.

'Is it of Fergus Mac-Ivor they speak thus,' thought Waverley, 'or do I dream? Of Fergus, the
bold, the chivalrous, the free-minded, the lofty chieftain of a tribe devoted to him? Is it
he, that I have seen lead the chase and head the attack, the brave, the active, the young,
the noble, the love of ladies, and the theme of song,--is it he who is ironed like a malefactor,
who is to be dragged on a hurdle to the common gallows, to die a lingering and cruel death,
and to be mangled by the hand of the most outcast of wretches? Evil indeed was the spectre
that boded such a fate as this to the brave Chief of Glennaquoich!'

With a faltering voice he requested the solicitor to find means to warn Fergus of his intended
visit, should he obtain permission to make it. He then turned away from him, and, returning
to the inn, wrote a scarcely intelligible note to Flora Mac-Ivor, intimating his purpose to
wait upon her that evening. The messenger brought back a letter in Flora's beautiful Italian
hand, which seemed scarce to tremble even under this load of misery. 'Miss Flora Mac- Ivor,'
the letter bore, 'could not refuse to see the dearest friend of her dear brother, even in her
present circumstances of unparalleled distress.'

When Edward reached Miss Mac-Ivor's present place of abode he was instantly admitted. In a
large and gloomy tapestried apartment Flora was seated by a latticed window, sewing what seemed
to be a garment of white flannel. At a little distance sat an elderly woman, apparently a foreigner,
and of a religious order. She was reading in a book of Catholic devotion, but when Waverley
entered laid it on the table and left the room. Flora rose to receive him, and stretched out
her hand, but neither ventured to attempt speech. Her fine complexion was totally gone; her
person considerably emaciated; and her face and hands as white as the purest statuary marble,
forming a strong contrast with her sable dress and jet-black hair. Yet, amid these marks of
distress there was nothing negligent or ill-arranged about her attire; even her hair, though
totally without ornament, was disposed with her usual attention to neatness. The first words
she uttered were, 'Have you seen him?'

'Alas, no,' answered Waverley, 'I have been refused admittance.'

'It accords with the rest,' she said; 'but we must submit. Shall you obtain leave, do you suppose?'

'For--for--tomorrow,' said Waverley; but muttering the last word so faintly that it was almost
unintelligible.

'Ay, then or never,' said Flora, 'until'--she added, looking upward--'the time when, I trust,
we shall all meet. But I hope you will see him while earth yet bears him. He always loved you
at his heart, though--but it is vain to talk of the past.'

'Vain indeed!' echoed Waverley.

'Or even of the future, my good friend,' said Flora,'so far as earthly events are concerned;
for how often have I pictured to myself the strong possibility of this horrid issue, and tasked
myself to consider how I could support my part; and yet how far has all my anticipation fallen
short of the unimaginable bitterness of this hour!'

'Dear Flora, if your strength of mind--'

'Ay, there it is,' she answered, somewhat wildly; 'there is, Mr. Waverley, there is a busy
devil at my heart that whispers--but it were madness to listen to it--that the strength of
mind on which Flora prided herself has murdered her brother!'

'Good God! how can you give utterance to a thought so shocking?'

'Ay, is it not so? but yet it haunts me like a phantom; I know it is unsubstantial and vain;
but it will be present; will intrude its horrors on my mind; will whisper that my brother,
as volatile as ardent, would have divided his energies amid a hundred objects. It was I who
taught him to concentrate them and to gage all on this dreadful and desperate cast. Oh that
I could recollect that I had but once said to him, "He that striketh with the sword shall die
by the sword"; that I had but once said, "Remain at home; reserve yourself, your vassals, your
life, for enterprises within the reach of man." But O, Mr. Waverley, I spurred his fiery temper,
and half of his ruin at least lies with his sister!'

The horrid idea which she had intimated, Edward endeavoured to combat by every incoherent argument
that occurred to him. He recalled to her the principles on which both thought it their duty
to act, and in which they had been educated.

'Do not think I have forgotten them,' she said, looking up with eager quickness; 'I do not
regret his attempt because it was wrong!--O no! on that point I am armed--but because it was
impossible it could end otherwise than thus.'

'Yet it did not always seem so desperate and hazardous as it was; and it would have been chosen
by the bold spirit of Fergus whether you had approved it or no; your counsels only served to
give unity and consistence to his conduct; to dignify, but not to precipitate, his resolution.'
Flora had soon ceased to listen to Edward, and was again intent upon her needlework.

'Do you remember,' she said, looking up with a ghastly smile, 'you once found me making Fergus's
bride-favours, and now I am sewing his bridal garment. Our friends here,' she continued, with
suppressed emotion, 'are to give hallowed earth in their chapel to the bloody relics of the
last Vich Ian Vohr. But they will not all rest together; no--his head!--I shall not have the
last miserable consolation of kissing the cold lips of my dear, dear Fergus!'

The unfortunate Flora here, after one or two hysterical sobs, fainted in her chair. The lady,
who had been attending in the ante-room, now entered hastily, and begged Edward to leave the
room, but not the house.

When he was recalled, after the space of nearly half an hour, he found that, by a strong effort,
Miss Mac-Ivor had greatly composed herself. It was then he ventured to urge Miss Bradwardine's
claim to be considered as an adopted sister, and empowered to assist her plans for the future.

'I have had a letter from my dear Rose,' she replied, 'to the same purpose. Sorrow is selfish
and engrossing, or I would have written to express that, even in my own despair, I felt a gleam
of pleasure at learning her happy prospects, and at hearing that the good old Baron has escaped
the general wreck. Give this to my dearest Rose; it is her poor Flora's only ornament of value,
and was the gift of a princess.' She put into his hands a case containing the chain of diamonds
with which she used to decorate her hair. 'To me it is in future useless. The kindness of my
friends has secured me a retreat in the convent of the Scottish Benedictine nuns in Paris.
Tomorrow--if indeed I can survive tomorrow--I set forward on my journey with this venerable
sister. And now, Mr. Waverley, adieu! May you be as happy with Rose as your amiable dispositions
deserve; and think sometimes on the friends you have lost. Do not attempt to see me again;
it would be mistaken kindness.'

She gave him her hand, on which Edward shed a torrent of tears, and with a faltering step withdrew
from the apartment, and returned to the town of Carlisle. At the inn he found a letter from
his law friend intimating that he would be admitted to Fergus next morning as soon as the Castle
gates were opened, and permitted to remain with him till the arrival of the Sheriff gave signal
for the fatal procession.

CHAPTER LXIX

    A darker departure is near,
    The death drum is muffled, and sable the bier

    CAMPBELL

After a sleepless night, the first dawn of morning found Waverley on the esplanade in front
of the old Gothic gate of Carlisle Castle. But he paced it long in every direction before the
hour when, according to the rules of the garrison, the gates were opened and the draw-bridge
lowered. He produced his order to the sergeant of the guard and was admitted.

The place of Fergus's confinement was a gloomy and vaulted apartment in the central part of
the Castle; a huge old tower, supposed to be of great antiquity, and surrounded by outworks,
seemingly of Henry VIII's time, or somewhat later. The grating of the large old-fashioned bars
and bolts, withdrawn for the purpose of admitting Edward, was answered by the clash of chains,
as the unfortunate Chieftain, strongly and heavily fettered, shuffled along the stone floor
of his prison to fling himself into his friend's arms.

'My dear Edward,' he said, in a firm and even cheerful voice,'this is truly kind. I heard of
your approaching happiness with the highest pleasure. And how does Rose? and how is our old
whimsical friend the Baron? Well, I trust, since I see you at freedom. And how will you settle
precedence between the three ermines passant and the bear and boot-jack?'

'How, O how, my dear Fergus, can you talk of such things at such a moment!'

'Why, we have entered Carlisle with happier auspices, to be sure; on the 16th of November last,
for example, when we marched in side by side, and hoisted the white flag on these ancient towers.
But I am no boy, to sit down and weep because the luck has gone against me. I knew the stake
which I risked; we played the game boldly and the forfeit shall be paid manfully. And now,
since my time is short, let me come to the questions that interest me most--the Prince? has
he escaped the bloodhounds?'

'He has, and is in safety.'

'Praised be God for that! Tell me the particulars of his escape.'

Waverley communicated that remarkable history, so far as it had then transpired, to which Fergus
listened with deep interest. He then asked after several other friends; and made many minute
inquiries concerning the fate of his own clansmen. They had suffered less than other tribes
who had been engaged in the affair; for, having in a great measure dispersed and returned home
after the captivity of their Chieftain, according to the universal custom of the Highlanders,
they were not in arms when the insurrection was finally suppressed, and consequently were treated
with less rigour. This Fergus heard with great satisfaction.

'You are rich,' he said, 'Waverley, and you are generous. When you hear of these poor Mac-Ivors
being distressed about their miserable possessions by some harsh overseer or agent of government,
remember you have worn their tartan and are an adopted son of their race, The Baron, who knows
our manners and lives near our country, will apprise you of the time and means to be their
protector. Will you promise this to the last Vich Ian Vohr?'

Edward, as may well be believed, pledged his word; which he afterwards so amply redeemed that
his memory still lives in these glens by the name of the Friend of the Sons of Ivor.

'Would to God,' continued the Chieftain, 'I could bequeath to you my rights to the love and
obedience of this primitive and brave race; or at least, as I have striven to do, persuade
poor Evan to accept of his life upon their terms, and be to you what he has been to me, the
kindest, the bravest, the most devoted--'

The tears which his own fate could not draw forth fell fast for that of his foster-brother.

'But,' said he, drying them,'that cannot be. You cannot be to them Vich Ian Vohr; and these
three magic words,' said he, half smiling, 'are the only Open Sesame to their feelings and
sympathies, and poor Evan must attend his foster-brother in death, as he has done through his
whole life.'

'And I am sure,' said Maccombich, raising himself from the floor, on which, for fear of interrupting
their conversation, he had lain so still that, in the obscurity of the apartment, Edward was
not aware of his presence--'I am sure Evan never desired or deserved a better end than just
to die with his Chieftain.'

'And now,' said Fergus, 'while we are upon the subject of clanship--what think you now of the
prediction of the Bodach Glas?' Then, before Edward could answer, 'I saw him again last night:
he stood in the slip of moonshine which fell from that high and narrow window towards my bed.
"Why should I fear him?" I thought; "to-morrow, long ere this time, I shall be as immaterial
as he." "False spirit," I said, "art thou come to close thy walks on earth and to enjoy thy
triumph in the fall of the last descendant of thine enemy?" The spectre seemed to beckon and
to smile as he faded from my sight. What do you think of it? I asked the same question of the
priest, who is a good and sensible man; he admitted that the church allowed that such apparitions
were possible, but urged me not to permit my mind to dwell upon it, as imagination plays us
such strange tricks. What do you think of it?'

'Much as your confessor,' said Waverley, willing to avoid dispute upon such a point at such
a moment. A tap at the door now announced that good man, and Edward retired while he administered
to both prisoners the last rites of religion, in the mode which the Church of Rome prescribes.

In about an hour he was re-admitted; soon after, a file of soldiers entered with a blacksmith,
who struck the fetters from the legs of the prisoners.

'You see the compliment they pay to our Highland strength and courage; we have lain chained
here like wild beasts, till our legs are cramped into palsy, and when they free us they send
six soldiers with loaded muskets to prevent our taking the castle by storm!'

Edward afterwards learned that these severe precautions had been taken in consequence of a
desperate attempt of the prisoners to escape, in which they had very nearly succeeded.

Shortly afterwards the drums of the garrison beat to arms. 'This is the last turn-out,' said
Fergus, 'that I shall hear and obey. And now, my dear, dear Edward, ere we part let us speak
of Flora-- a subject which awakes the tenderest feeling that yet thrills within me'

'We part not here!' said Waverley.

'O yes, we do; you must come no farther. Not that I fear what is to follow for myself,' he
said proudly. 'Nature has her tortures as well as art, and how happy should we think the man
who escapes from the throes of a mortal and painful disorder in the space of a short half hour?
And this matter, spin it out as they will, cannot last longer. But what a dying man can suffer
firmly may kill a living friend to look upon. This same law of high treason,' he continued,
with astonishing firmness and composure, 'is one of the blessings, Edward, with which your
free country has accommodated poor old Scotland; her own jurisprudence, as I have heard, was
much milder. But I suppose one day or other--when there are no longer any wild Highlanders
to benefit by its tender mercies--they will blot it from their records as levelling them with
a nation of cannibals. The mummery, too, of exposing the senseless head--they have not the
wit to grace mine with a paper coronet; there would be some satire in that, Edward. I hope
they will set it on the Scotch gate though, that I may look, even after death, to the blue
hills of my own country, which I love so dearly. The Baron would have added,

    Moritur, et moriens dukes reminiscitur Argos.'

A bustle, and the sound of wheels and horses' feet, was now heard in the court-yard of the
Castle. 'As I have told you why you must not follow me, and these sounds admonish me that my
time flies fast, tell me how you found poor Flora.'

Waverley, with a voice interrupted by suffocating sensations, gave some account of the state
of her mind.

'Poor Flora!' answered the Chief, 'she could have borne her own sentence of death, but not
mine. You, Waverley, will soon know the happiness of mutual affection in the married state--long,
long may Rose and you enjoy it!--but you can never know the purity of feeling which combines
two orphans like Flora and me, left alone as it were in the world, and being all in all to
each other from our very infancy. But her strong sense of duty and predominant feeling of loyalty
will give new nerve to her mind after the immediate and acute sensation of this parting has
passed away. She will then think of Fergus as of the heroes of our race, upon whose deeds she
loved to dwell.'

'Shall she not see you then?' asked Waverley. 'She seemed to expect it.'

'A necessary deceit will spare her the last dreadful parting. I could not part with her without
tears, and I cannot bear that these men should think they have power to extort them. She was
made to believe she would see me at a later hour, and this letter, which my confessor will
deliver, will apprise her that all is over.'

An officer now appeared and intimated that the High Sheriff and his attendants waited before
the gate of the Castle to claim the bodies of Fergus Mac-Ivor and Evan Maccombich. 'I come,'
said Fergus. Accordingly, supporting Edward by the arm and followed by Evan Dhu and the priest,
he moved down the stairs of the tower, the soldiers bringing up the rear. The court was occupied
by a squadron of dragoons and a battalion of infantry, drawn up in hollow square. Within their
ranks was the sledge or hurdle on which the prisoners were to be drawn to the place of execution,
about a mile distant from Carlisle. It was painted black, and drawn by a white horse. At one
end of the vehicle sat the executioner, a horrid-looking fellow, as beseemed his trade, with
the broad axe in his hand; at the other end, next the horse, was an empty seat for two persons.
Through the deep and dark Gothic archway that opened on the drawbridge were seen on horseback
the High Sheriff and his attendants, whom the etiquette betwixt the civil and military powers
did not permit to come farther. 'This is well GOT UP for a closing scene,' said Fergus, smiling
disdainfully as he gazed around upon the apparatus of terror. Evan Dhu exclaimed with some
eagerness, after looking at the dragoons,' These are the very chields that galloped off at
Gladsmuir, before we could kill a dozen o' them. They look bold enough now, however.' The priest
entreated him to be silent.

The sledge now approached, and Fergus, turning round, embraced Waverley, kissed him on each
side of the face, and stepped nimbly into his place. Evan sat down by his side. The priest
was to follow in a carriage belonging to his patron, the Catholic gentleman at whose house
Flora resided. As Fergus waved his hand to Edward the ranks closed around the sledge, and the
whole procession began to move forward. There was a momentary stop at the gateway, while the
governor of the Castle and the High Sheriff went through a short ceremony, the military officer
there delivering over the persons of the criminals to the civil power. 'God save King George!'
said the High Sheriff. When the formality concluded, Fergus stood erect in the sledge, and,
with a firm and steady voice, replied,' God save King JAMES!' These were the last words which
Waverley heard him speak.

The procession resumed its march, and the sledge vanished from beneath the portal, under which
it had stopped for an instant. The dead march was then heard, and its melancholy sounds were
mingled with those of a muffled peal tolled from the neighbouring cathedral. The sound of military
music died away as the procession moved on; the sullen clang of the bells was soon heard to
sound alone.

The last of the soldiers had now disappeared from under the vaulted archway through which they
had been filing for several minutes; the court-yard was now totally empty, but Waverley still
stood there as if stupefied, his eyes fixed upon the dark pass where he had so lately seen
the last glimpse of his friend. At length a female servant of the governor's, struck with compassion,
at the stupefied misery which his countenance expressed, asked him if he would not walk into
her master's house and sit down? She was obliged to repeat her question twice ere he comprehended
her, but at length it recalled him to himself. Declining the courtesy by a hasty gesture, he
pulled his hat over his eyes, and, leaving the Castle, walked as swiftly as he could through
the empty streets till he regained his inn, then rushed into an apartment and bolted the door.

In about an hour and a half, which seemed an age of unutterable suspense, the sound of the
drums and fifes performing a lively air, and the confused murmur of the crowd which now filled
the streets, so lately deserted, apprised him that all was finished, and that the military
and populace were returning from the dreadful scene. I will not attempt to describe his sensations.

In the evening the priest made him a visit, and informed him that he did so by directions of
his deceased friend, to assure him that Fergus Mac-Ivor had died as he lived, and remembered
his friendship to the last. He added, he had also seen Flora, whose state of mind seemed more
composed since all was over. With her and sister Theresa the priest proposed next day to leave
Carlisle for the nearest seaport from which they could embark for France. Waverley forced on
this good man a ring of some value and a sum of money to be employed (as he thought might gratify
Flora) in the services of the Catholic church for the memory of his friend. 'Fun-garque inani
munere,' he repeated, as the ecclesiastic retired. 'Yet why not class these acts of remembrance
with other honours, with which affection in all sects pursues the memory of the dead?'

The next morning ere daylight he took leave of the town of Carlisle, promising to himself never
again to enter its walls. He dared hardly look back towards the Gothic battlements of the fortified
gate under which he passed, for the place is surrounded with an old wall. 'They're no there,'
said Alick Polwarth, who guessed the cause of the dubious look which Waverley cast backward,
and who, with the vulgar appetite for the horrible, was master of each detail of the butchery--'the
heads are ower the Scotch yate, as they ca' it. It's a great pity of Evan Dhu, who was a very
weel-meaning, good-natured man, to be a Hielandman; and indeed so was the Laird o' Glennaquoich
too, for that matter, when he wasna in ane o' his tirrivies.'

CHAPTER LXX

DULCE DOMUM

The impression of horror with which Waverley left Carlisle softened by degrees into melancholy,
a gradation which was accelerated by the painful yet soothing task of writing to Rose; and,
while he could not suppress his own feelings of the calamity, he endeavoured to place it in
a light which might grieve her without shocking her imagination. The picture which he drew
for her benefit he gradually familiarised to his own mind, and his next letters were more cheerful,
and referred to the prospects of peace and happiness which lay before them. Yet, though his
first horrible sensations had sunk into melancholy, Edward had reached his native country before
he could, as usual on former occasions, look round for enjoyment upon the face of nature.

He then, for the first time since leaving Edinburgh, began to experience that pleasure which
almost all feel who return to a verdant, populous, and highly cultivated country from scenes
of waste desolation or of solitary and melancholy grandeur. But how were those feelings enhanced
when he entered on the domain so long possessed by his forefathers; recognised the old oaks
of Waverley- Chace; thought with what delight he should introduce Rose to all his favourite
haunts; beheld at length the towers of the venerable hall arise above the woods which embowered
it, and finally threw himself into the arms of the venerable relations to whom he owed so much
duty and affection!

The happiness of their meeting was not tarnished by a single word of reproach. On the contrary,
whatever pain Sir Everard and Mrs. Rachel had felt during Waverley's perilous engagement with
the young Chevalier, it assorted too well with the principles in which they had been brought
up to incur reprobation, or even censure. Colonel Talbot also had smoothed the way with great
address for Edward's favourable reception by dwelling upon his gallant behaviour in the military
character, particularly his bravery and generosity at Preston; until, warmed at the idea of
their nephew's engaging in single combat, making prisoner, and saving from slaughter so distinguished
an officer as the Colonel himself, the imagination of the Baronet and his sister ranked the
exploits of Edward with those of Wilibert, Hildebrand, and Nigel, the vaunted heroes of their line.

The appearance of Waverley, embrowned by exercise and dignified by the habits of military discipline,
had acquired an athletic and hardy character, which not only verified the Colonel's narration,
but surprised and delighted all the inhabitants of Waverley- Honour. They crowded to see, to
hear him, and to sing his praises. Mr. Pembroke, who secretly extolled his spirit and courage
in embracing the genuine cause of the Church of England, censured his pupil gently, nevertheless,
for being so careless of his manuscripts, which indeed, he said, had occasioned him some personal
inconvenience, as, upon the Baronet's being arrested by a king's messenger, he had deemed it
prudent to retire to a concealment called 'The Priest's Hole,' from the use it had been put
to in former days; where, he assured our hero, the butler had thought it safe to venture with
food only once in the day, so that he had been repeatedly compelled to dine upon victuals either
absolutely cold or, what was worse, only half warm, not to mention that sometimes his bed had
not been arranged for two days together. Waverley's mind involuntarily turned to the Patmos
of the Baron of Bradwardine, who was well pleased with Janet's fare and a few bunches of straw
stowed in a cleft in the front of a sand-cliff; but he made no remarks upon a contrast which
could only mortify his worthy tutor.

All was now in a bustle to prepare for the nuptials of Edward, an event to which the good old
Baronet and Mrs. Rachel looked forward as if to the renewal of their own youth. The match,
as Colonel Talbot had intimated, had seemed to them in the highest degree eligible, having
every recommendation but wealth, of which they themselves had more than enough. Mr. Clippurse
was therefore summoned to Waverley-Honour, under better auspices than at the commencement of
our story. But Mr. Clippurse came not alone; for, being now stricken in years, he had associated
with him a nephew, a younger vulture (as our English Juvenal, who tells the tale of Swallow
the attorney, might have called him), and they now carried on business as Messrs. Clippurse
and Hookem. These worthy gentlemen had directions to make the necessary settlements on the
most splendid scale of liberality, as if Edward were to wed a peeress in her own right, with
her paternal estate tacked to the fringe of her ermine.

But before entering upon a subject of proverbial delay, I must remind my reader of the progress
of a stone rolled downhill by an idle truant boy (a pastime at which I was myself expert in
my more juvenile years), it moves at first slowly, avoiding by inflection every obstacle of
the least importance; but when it has attained its full impulse, and draws near the conclusion
of its career, it smokes and thunders down, taking a rood at every spring, clearing hedge and
ditch like a Yorkshire huntsman, and becoming most furiously rapid in its course when it is
nearest to being consigned to rest for ever. Even such is the course of a narrative like that
which you are perusing. The earlier events are studiously dwelt upon, that you, kind reader,
may be introduced to the character rather by narrative than by the duller medium of direct
description; but when the story draws near its close, we hurry over the circumstances, however
important, which your imagination must have forestalled, and leave you to suppose those things
which it would be abusing your patience to relate at length.

We are, therefore, so far from attempting to trace the dull progress of Messrs. Clippurse and
Hookem, or that of their worthy official brethren who had the charge of suing out the pardons
of Edward Waverley and his intended father-in-law, that we can but touch upon matters more
attractive. The mutual epistles, for example, which were exchanged between Sir Everard and
the Baron upon this occasion, though matchless specimens of eloquence in their way, must be
consigned to merciless oblivion. Nor can I tell you at length how worthy Aunt Rachel, not without
a delicate and affectionate allusion to the circumstances which had transferred Rose's maternal
diamonds to the hands of Donald Bean Lean, stocked her casket with a set of jewels that a duchess
might have envied. Moreover, the reader will have the goodness to imagine that Job Houghton
and his dame were suitably provided for, although they could never be persuaded that their
son fell otherwise than fighting by the young squire's side; so that Alick, who, as a lover
of truth, had made many needless attempts to expound the real circumstances to them, was finally
ordered to say not a word more upon the subject. He indemnified himself, however, by the liberal
allowance of desperate battles, grisly executions, and raw-head and bloody-bone stories with
which he astonished the servants' hall.

But although these important matters may be briefly told in narrative, like a newspaper report
of a Chancery suit, yet, with all the urgency which Waverley could use, the real time which
the law proceedings occupied, joined to the delay occasioned by the mode of travelling at that
period, rendered it considerably more than two months ere Waverley, having left England, alighted
once more at the mansion of the Laird of Duchran to claim the hand of his plighted bride.

The day of his marriage was fixed for the sixth after his arrival. The Baron of Bradwardine,
with whom bridals, christenings, and funerals were festivals of high and solemn import, felt
a little hurt that, including the family of the Duchran and all the immediate vicinity who
had title to be present on such an occasion, there could not be above thirty persons collected.
'When he was married,' he observed,'three hundred horse of gentlemen born, besides servants,
and some score or two of Highland lairds, who never got on horseback, were present on the occasion.'

But his pride found some consolation in reflecting that, he and his son-in-law having been
so lately in arms against government, it might give matter of reasonable fear and offence to
the ruling powers if they were to collect together the kith, kin, and allies of their houses,
arrayed in effeir of war, as was the ancient custom of Scotland on these occasions--'And, without
dubitation,' he concluded with a sigh, 'many of those who would have rejoiced most freely upon
these joyful espousals are either gone to a better place or are now exiles from their native land.'

The marriage took place on the appointed day. The Reverend Mr. Rubrick, kinsman to the proprietor
of the hospitable mansion where it was solemnised, and chaplain to the Baron of Bradwardine,
had the satisfaction to unite their hands; and Frank Stanley acted as bridesman, having joined
Edward with that view soon after his arrival. Lady Emily and Colonel Talbot had proposed being
present; but Lady Emily's health, when the day approached, was found inadequate to the journey.
In amends it was arranged that Edward Waverley and his lady, who, with the Baron, proposed
an immediate journey to Waverley-Honour, should in their way spend a few days at an estate
which Colonel Talbot had been tempted to purchase in Scotland as a very great bargain, and
at which he proposed to reside for some time.

CHAPTER LXXI

    This is no mine ain house, I ken by the bigging o't

    Old Song.

The nuptial party travelled in great style. There was a coach and six after the newest pattern,
which Sir Everard had presented to his nephew, that dazzled with its splendour the eyes of
one half of Scotland; there was the family coach of Mr. Rubrick;--both these were crowded with
ladies,--and there were gentlemen on horseback, with their servants, to the number of a round
score. Nevertheless, without having the fear of famine before his eyes, Bailie Macwheeble met
them in the road to entreat that they would pass by his house at Little Veolan. The Baron stared,
and said his son and he would certainly ride by Little Veolan and pay their compliments to
the Bailie, but could not think of bringing with them the 'haill comitatus nuptialis, or matrimonial
procession.' He added, 'that, as he understood that the barony had been sold by its unworthy
possessor, he was glad to see his old friend Duncan had regained his situation under the new
Dominus, or proprietor.' The Bailie ducked, bowed, and fidgeted, and then again insisted upon
his invitation; until the Baron, though rather piqued at the pertinacity of his instances,
could not nevertheless refuse to consent without making evident sensations which he was anxious
to conceal.

He fell into a deep study as they approached the top of the avenue, and was only startled from
it by observing that the battlements were replaced, the ruins cleared away, and (most wonderful
of all) that the two great stone bears, those mutilated Dagons of his idolatry, had resumed
their posts over the gateway. 'Now this new proprietor,' said he to Edward, 'has shown mair
gusto, as the Italians call it, in the short time he has had this domain, than that hound Malcolm,
though I bred him here mysell, has acquired vita adhuc durante. And now I talk of hounds, is
not yon Ban and Buscar who come scouping up the avenue with Davie Gellatley?'

'I vote we should go to meet them, sir,' said Waverley, 'for I believe the present master of
the house is Colonel Talbot, who will expect to see us. We hesitated to mention to you at first
that he had purchased your ancient patrimonial property, and even yet, if you do not incline
to visit him, we can pass on to the Bailie's.'

The Baron had occasion for all his magnanimity. However, he drew a long breath, took a long
snuff, and observed, since they had brought him so far, he could not pass the Colonel's gate,
and he would be happy to see the new master of his old tenants. He alighted accordingly, as
did the other gentlemen and ladies; he gave his arm to his daughter, and as they descended
the avenue pointed out to her how speedily the 'Diva Pecunia of the Southron --their tutelary
deity, he might call her--had removed the marks of spoliation.'

In truth, not only had the felled trees been removed, but, their stumps being grubbed up and
the earth round them levelled and sown with grass, every mark of devastation, unless to an
eye intimately acquainted with the spot, was already totally obliterated. There was a similar
reformation in the outward man of Davie Gellatley, who met them, every now and then stopping
to admire the new suit which graced his person, in the same colours as formerly, but bedizened
fine enough to have served Touchstone himself. He danced up with his usual ungainly frolics,
first to the Baron and then to Rose, passing his hands over his clothes, crying, 'Bra', bra'
Davie,' and scarce able to sing a bar to an end of his thousand- and-one songs for the breathless
extravagance of his joy. The dogs also acknowledged their old master with a thousand gambols.
'Upon my conscience, Rose,' ejaculated the Baron, 'the gratitude o' thae dumb brutes and of
that puir innocent brings the tears into my auld een, while that schellum Malcolm--but I'm
obliged to Colonel Talbot for putting my hounds into such good condition, and likewise for
puir Davie. But, Rose, my dear, we must not permit them to be a life-rent burden upon the estate.'

As he spoke, Lady Emily, leaning upon the arm of her husband, met the party at the lower gate
with a thousand welcomes. After the ceremony of introduction had been gone through, much abridged
by the ease and excellent breeding of Lady Emily, she apologised for having used a little art
to wile them back to a place which might awaken some painful reflections--'But as it was to
change masters, we were very desirous that the Baron--'

'Mr. Bradwardine, madam, if you please,' said the old gentleman.

'--Mr. Bradwardine, then, and Mr. Waverley should see what we have done towards restoring the
mansion of your fathers to its former state.'

The Baron answered with a low bow. Indeed, when he entered the court, excepting that the heavy
stables, which had been burnt down, were replaced by buildings of a lighter and more picturesque
appearance, all seemed as much as possible restored to the state in which he had left it when
he assumed arms some months before. The pigeon-house was replenished; the fountain played with
its usual activity, and not only the bear who predominated over its basin, but all the other
bears whatsoever, were replaced on their several stations, and renewed or repaired with so
much care that they bore no tokens of the violence which had so lately descended upon them.
While these minutiae had been so needfully attended to, it is scarce necessary to add that
the house itself had been thoroughly repaired, as well as the gardens, with the strictest attention
to maintain the original character of both, and to remove as far as possible all appearance
of the ravage they had sustained. The Baron gazed in silent wonder; at length he addressed
Colonel Talbot--

'While I acknowledge my obligation to you, sir, for the restoration of the badge of our family,
I cannot but marvel that you have nowhere established your own crest, whilk is, I believe,
a mastiff, anciently called a talbot; as the poet has it,

    A talbot strong, a sturdy tyke.

At least such a dog is the crest of the martial and renowned Earls of Shrewsbury, to whom your
family are probably blood-relations.'

'I believe,' said the Colonel, smiling, 'our dogs are whelps of the same litter; for my part,
if crests were to dispute precedence, I should be apt to let them, as the proverb says, "fight
dog, fight bear."'

As he made this speech, at which the Baron took another long pinch of snuff, they had entered
the house, that is, the Baron, Rose, and Lady Emily, with young Stanley and the Bailie, for
Edward and the rest of the party remained on the terrace to examine a new greenhouse stocked
with the finest plants. The Baron resumed his favourite topic--'However it may please you to
derogate from the honour of your burgonet, Colonel Talbot, which is doubtless your humour,
as I have seen in other gentlemen of birth and honour in your country, I must again repeat
it as a most ancient and distinguished bearing, as well as that of my young friend Francis
Stanley, which is the eagle and child.'

'The bird and bantling they call it in Derbyshire, sir,' said Stanley.

'Ye're a daft callant, sir,' said the Baron, who had a great liking to this young man, perhaps
because he sometimes teased him --'Ye're a daft callant, and I must correct you some of these
days,' shaking his great brown fist at him. 'But what I meant to say, Colonel Talbot, is, that
yours is an ancient prosapia, or descent, and since you have lawfully and justly acquired the
estate for you and yours which I have lost for me and mine, I wish it may remain in your name
as many centuries as it has done in that of the late proprietor's.'

'That,' answered the Colonel, 'is very handsome, Mr. Bradwardine, indeed.'

'And yet, sir, I cannot but marvel that you, Colonel, whom I noted to have so much of the amor
patritz when we met in Edinburgh as even to vilipend other countries, should have chosen to
establish your Lares, or household gods, procul a patrice finibus, and in a manner to expatriate
yourself.'

'Why really, Baron, I do not see why, to keep the secret of these foolish boys, Waverley and
Stanley, and of my wife, who is no wiser, one old soldier should continue to impose upon another.
You must know, then, that I have so much of that same prejudice in favour of my native country,
that the sum of money which I advanced to the seller of this extensive barony has only purchased
for me a box in----shire, called Brere-wood Lodge, with about two hundred and fifty acres of
land, the chief merit of which is, that it is within a very few miles of Waverley-Honour.'

'And who, then, in the name of Heaven, has bought this property?'

'That,' said the Colonel, 'it is this gentleman's profession to explain.'

The Bailie, whom this reference regarded, and who had all this while shifted from one foot
to another with great impatience, 'like a hen,' as he afterwards said, 'upon a het girdle';
and chuckling, he might have added, like the said hen in all the glory of laying an egg, now
pushed forward. 'That I can, that I can, your honour,' drawing from his pocket a budget of
papers, and untying the red tape with a hand trembling with eagerness. 'Here is the disposition
and assignation by Malcolm Bradwardine of Inch- Grabbit, regularly signed and tested in terms
of the statute, whereby, for a certain sum of sterling money presently contented and paid to
him, he has disponed, alienated, and conveyed the whole estate and barony of Bradwardine, Tully-Veolan,
and others, with the fortalice and manor-place--'

'For God's sake, to the point, sir; I have all that by heart,' said the Colonel.

'--To Cosmo Comyne Bradwardme, Esq.,' pursued the Bailie, 'his heirs and assignees, simply
and irredeemably, to be held either a me vel de me--'

'Pray read short, sir.'

'On the conscience of an honest man, Colonel, I read as short as is consistent with style--under
the burden and reservation always--'

'Mr. Macwheeble, this would outlast a Russian winter; give me leave. In short, Mr. Bradwardine,
your family estate is your own once more in full property, and at your absolute disposal, but
only burdened with the sum advanced to re-purchase it, which I understand is utterly disproportioned
to its value.'

'An auld sang--an auld sang, if it please your honours,' cried the Bailie, rubbing his hands;
'look at the rental book.'

'--Which sum being advanced, by Mr. Edward Waverley, chiefly from the price of his father's
property which I bought from him, is secured to his lady your daughter and her family by this
marriage.'

'It is a catholic security,' shouted the Bailie,' to Rose Comyne Bradwardine, alias Wauverley,
in life-rent, and the children of the said marriage in fee; and I made up a wee bit minute
of an antenuptial contract, intuitu matrimonij, so it cannot be subject to reduction hereafter,
as a donation inter virum et uxorem.'

It is difficult to say whether the worthy Baron was most delighted with the restitution of
his family property or with the delicacy and generosity that left him unfettered to pursue
his purpose in disposing of it after his death, and which avoided as much as possible even
the appearance of laying him under pecuniary obligation. When his first pause of joy and astonishment
was over, his thoughts turned to the unworthy heir-male, who, he pronounced, had sold his birthright,
like Esau, for a mess o' pottage.

'But wha cookit the parritch for him?' exclaimed the Bailie; 'I wad like to ken that;--wha
but your honour's to command, Duncan Macwheeble? His honour, young Mr. Wauverley, put it a'
into my hand frae the beginning--frae the first calling o' the summons, as I may say. I circumvented
them--I played at bogle about the bush wi' them--I cajolled them; and if I havena gien Inch-Grabbit
and Jamie Howie a bonnie begunk, they ken themselves. Him a writer! I didna gae slapdash to
them wi' our young bra' bridegroom, to gar them baud up the market. Na, na; I scared them wi'
our wild tenantry, and the Mac-Ivors, that are but ill settled yet, till they durstna on ony
errand whatsoever gang ower the doorstane after gloaming, for fear John Heatherblutter, or
some siccan dare- the-deil, should tak a baff at them; then, on the other hand, I beflummed
them wi' Colonel Talbot; wad they offer to keep up the price again' the Duke's friend? did
they na ken wha was master? had they na seen eneugh, by the sad example of mony a puir misguided
unhappy body--'

'Who went to Derby, for example, Mr. Macwheeble?' said the Colonel to him aside.

'O whisht, Colonel, for the love o' God! let that flee stick i' the wa'. There were mony good
folk at Derby; and it's ill speaking of halters'--with a sly cast of his eye toward the Baron,
who was in a deep reverie.

Starting out of it at once, he took Macwheeble by the button and led him into one of the deep
window recesses, whence only fragments of their conversation reached the rest of the party.
It certainly related to stamp-paper and parchment; for no other subject, even from the mouth
of his patron, and he once more an efficient one, could have arrested so deeply the Bailie's
reverent and absorbed attention.

'I understand your honour perfectly; it can be dune as easy as taking out a decreet in absence.'

'To her and him, after my demise, and to their heirs-male, but preferring the second son, if
God shall bless them with two, who is to carry the name and arms of Bradwardine of that ilk,
without any other name or armorial bearings whatsoever.'

'Tut, your honour!' whispered the Bailie, 'I'll mak a slight jotting the morn; it will cost
but a charter of resignation in favorem; and I'll hae it ready for the next term in Exchequer.'

Their private conversation ended, the Baron was now summoned to do the honours of Tully-Veolan
to new guests. These were Major Melville of Cairnvreckan and the Reverend Mr. Morton, followed
by two or three others of the Baron's acquaintances, who had been made privy to his having
again acquired the estate of his fathers. The shouts of the villagers were also heard beneath
in the court- yard; for Saunders Saunderson, who had kept the secret for several days with
laudable prudence, had unloosed his tongue upon beholding the arrival of the carriages.

But, while Edward received Major Melville with politeness and the clergyman with the most affectionate
and grateful kindness, his father-in-law looked a little awkward, as uncertain how he should
answer the necessary claims of hospitality to his guests, and forward the festivity of his
tenants. Lady Emily relieved him by intimating that, though she must be an indifferent representative
of Mrs. Edward Waverley in many respects, she hoped the Baron would approve of the entertainment
she had ordered in expectation of so many guests; and that they would find such other accommodations
provided as might in some degree support the ancient hospitality of Tully-Veolan. It is impossible
to describe the pleasure which this assurance gave the Baron, who, with an air of gallantry
half appertaining to the stiff Scottish laird and half to the officer in the French service,
offered his arm to the fair speaker, and led the way, in something between a stride and a minuet
step, into the large dining parlour, followed by all the rest of the good company.

By dint of Saunderson's directions and exertions, all here, as well as in the other apartments,
had been disposed as much as possible according to the old arrangement; and where new movables
had been necessary, they had been selected in the same character with the old furniture. There
was one addition to this fine old apartment, however, which drew tears into the Baron's eyes.
It was a large and spirited painting, representing Fergus Mac-Ivor and Waverley in their Highland
dress, the scene a wild, rocky, and mountainous pass, down which the clan were descending in
the background. It was taken from a spirited sketch, drawn while they were in Edinburgh by
a young man of high genius, and had been painted on a full-length scale by an eminent London
artist. Raeburn himself (whose 'Highland Chiefs' do all but walk out of the canvas) could not
have done more justice to the subject; and the ardent, fiery, and impetuous character of the
unfortunate Chief of Glennaquoich was finely contrasted with the contemplative, fanciful, and
enthusiastic expression of his happier friend. Beside this painting hung the arms which Waverley
had borne in the unfortunate civil war. The whole piece was beheld with admiration and deeper
feelings.

Men must, however, eat, in spite both of sentiment and vertu; and the Baron, while he assumed
the lower end of the table, insisted that Lady Emily should do the honours of the head, that
they might, he said, set a meet example to the YOUNG FOLK. After a pause of deliberation, employed
in adjusting in his own brain the precedence between the Presbyterian kirk and Episcopal church
of Scotland, he requested Mr. Morton, as the stranger, would crave a blessing, observing that
Mr. Rubrick, who was at HOME, would return thanks for the distinguished mercies it had been
his lot to experience. The dinner was excellent. Saunderson attended in full costume, with
all the former domestics, who had been collected, excepting one or two, that had not been heard
of since the affair of Culloden. The cellars were stocked with wine which was pronounced to
be superb, and it had been contrived that the Bear of the Fountain, in the courtyard, should
(for that night only) play excellent brandy punch for the benefit of the lower orders.

When the dinner was over the Baron, about to propose a toast, cast a somewhat sorrowful look
upon the sideboard, which, however, exhibited much of his plate, that had either been secreted
or purchased by neighbouring gentlemen from the soldiery, and by them gladly restored to the
original owner.

"In the late times," he said, "those must be thankful who have saved life and land; yet when
I am about to pronounce this toast, I cannot but regret an old heirloom, Lady Emily, a POCULUM
POTATORIUM, Colonel Talbot--"

Here the Baron's elbow was gently touched by his major-domo, and, turning round, he beheld
in the hands of Alexander ab Alexandro the celebrated cup of Saint Duthac, the Blessed Bear
of Bradwardine! I question if the recovery of his estate afforded him more rapture. "By my
honour," he said, "one might almost believe in brownies and fairies, Lady Emily, when your
ladyship is in presence!"

"I am truly happy," said Colonel Talbot, "that, by the recovery of this piece of family antiquity,
it has fallen within my power to give you some token of my deep interest in all that concerns
my young friend Edward. But that you may not suspect Lady Emily for a sorceress, or me for
a conjuror, which is no joke in Scotland, I must tell you that Frank Stanley, your friend,
who has been seized with a tartan fever ever since he heard Edward's tales of old Scottish
manners, happened to describe to us at second-hand this remarkable cup. My servant, Spontoon,
who, like a true old soldier, observes everything and says little, gave me afterwards to understand
that he thought he had seen the piece of plate Mr. Stanley mentioned in the possession of a
certain Mrs. Nosebag, who, having been originally the helpmate of a pawnbroker, had found opportunity
during the late unpleasant scenes in Scotland to trade a little in her old line, and so became
the depositary of the more valuable part of the spoil of half the army. You may believe the
cup was speedily recovered; and it will give me very great pleasure if you allow me to suppose
that its value is not diminished by having been restored through my means."

A tear mingled with the wine which the Baron filled, as he proposed a cup of gratitude to Colonel
Talbot, and 'The Prosperity of the united Houses of Waverley-Honour and Bradwardine!'

It only remains for me to say that, as no wish was ever uttered with more affectionate sincerity,
there are few which, allowing for the necessary mutability of human events, have been upon
the whole more happily fulfilled.

CHAPTER LXXII

A POSTSCRIPT WHICH SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PREFACE

Our journey is now finished, gentle reader; and if your patience has accompanied me through
these sheets, the contract is, on your part, strictly fulfilled. Yet, like the driver who has
received his full hire, I still linger near you, and make, with becoming diffidence, a trifling
additional claim upon your bounty and good nature. You are as free, however, to shut the volume
of the one petitioner as to close your door in the face of the other.

This should have been a prefatory chapter, but for two reasons: First, that most novel readers,
as my own conscience reminds me, are apt to be guilty of the sin of omission respecting that
same matter of prefaces; Secondly, that it is a general custom with that class of students
to begin with the last chapter of a work; so that, after all, these remarks, being introduced
last in order, have still the best chance to be read in their proper place.

There is no European nation which, within the course of half a century or little more, has
undergone so complete a change as this kingdom of Scotland. The effects of the insurrection
of 1745,--the destruction of the patriarchal power of the Highland chiefs,--the abolition of
the heritable jurisdictions of the Lowland nobility and barons,--the total eradication of the
Jacobite party, which, averse to intermingle with the English, or adopt their customs, long
continued to pride themselves upon maintaining ancient Scottish manners and customs,--commenced
this innovation. The gradual influx of wealth and extension of commerce have since united to
render the present people of Scotland a class of beings as different from their grandfathers
as the existing English are from those of Queen Elizabeth's time.

The political and economical effects of these changes have been traced by Lord Selkirk with
great precision and accuracy. But the change, though steadily and rapidly progressive, has
nevertheless been gradual; and, like those who drift down the stream of a deep and smooth river,
we are not aware of the progress we have made until we fix our eye on the now distant point
from which we have been drifted. Such of the present generation as can recollect the last twenty
or twenty-five years of the eighteenth century will be fully sensible of the truth of this
statement; especially if their acquaintance and connexions lay among those who in my younger
time were facetiously called 'folks of the old leaven,' who still cherished a lingering, though
hopeless, attachment to the house of Stuart.

This race has now almost entirely vanished from the land, and with it, doubtless, much absurd
political prejudice; but also many living examples of singular and disinterested attachment
to the principles of loyalty which they received from their fathers, and of old Scottish faith,
hospitality, worth, and honour.

It was my accidental lot, though not born a Highlander (which may be an apology for much bad
Gaelic), to reside during my childhood and youth among persons of the above description; and
now, for the purpose of preserving some idea of the ancient manners of which I have witnessed
the almost total extinction, I have embodied in imaginary scenes, and ascribed to fictitious
characters, a part of the incidents which I then received from those who were actors in them.
Indeed, the most romantic parts of this narrative are precisely those which have a foundation
in fact.

The exchange of mutual protection between a Highland gentleman and an officer of rank in the
king's service, together with the spirited manner in which the latter asserted his right to
return the favour he had received, is literally true. The accident by a musket shot, and the
heroic reply imputed to Flora, relate to a lady of rank not long deceased. And scarce a gentleman
who was 'in hiding' after the battle of Culloden but could tell a tale of strange concealments
and of wild and hair'sbreadth'scapes as extraordinary as any which I have ascribed to my heroes.
Of this, the escape of Charles Edward himself, as the most prominent, is the most striking
example. The accounts of the battle of Preston and skirmish at Clifton are taken from the narrative
of intelligent eye-witnesses, and corrected from the 'History of the Rebellion' by the late
venerable author of 'Douglas.' The Lowland Scottish gentlemen and the subordinate characters
are not given as individual portraits, but are drawn from the general habits of the period,
of which I have witnessed some remnants in my younger days, and partly gathered from tradition.

I feel no confidence, however, in the manner in which I have executed my purpose. Indeed, so
little was I satisfied with my production, that I laid it aside in an unfinished state, and
only found it again by mere accident among other waste papers in an old cabinet, the drawers
of which I was rummaging in order to accommodate a friend with some fishing-tackle, after it
had been mislaid for several years.

Two works upon similar subjects, by female authors whose genius is highly creditable to their
country, have appeared in the interval; I mean Mrs. Hamilton's 'Glenburnie' and the late account
of 'Highland Superstitions.' But the first is confined to the rural habits of Scotland, of
which it has given a picture with striking and impressive fidelity; and the traditional records
of the respectable and ingenious Mrs. Grant of Laggan are of a nature distinct from the fictitious
narrative which I have here attempted.

I would willingly persuade myself that the preceding work will not be found altogether uninteresting.
To elder persons it will recall scenes and characters familiar to their youth; and to the rising
generation the tale may present some idea of the manners of their forefathers.

Yet I heartily wish that the task of tracing the evanescent manners of his own country had
employed the pen of the only man in Scotland who could have done it justice--of him so eminently
distinguished in elegant literature, and whose sketches of Colonel Caustic and Umphraville
are perfectly blended with the finer traits of national character. I should in that case have
had more pleasure as a reader than I shall ever feel in the pride of a successful author, should
these sheets confer upon me that envied distinction. And, as I have inverted the usual arrangement,
placing these remarks at the end of the work to which they refer, I will venture on a second
violation of form, by closing the whole with a Dedication--

THESE VOLUMES BEING RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO OUR SCOTTISH ADDISON, HENRY MACKENZIE, BY AN
UNKNOWN ADMIRER OF HIS GENIUS.

THE END

NOTES

NOTE I, p. 19

The clan of Mac-Farlane, occupying the fastnesses of the western side of Loch Lomond, were
great depredators on the Low Country, and as their excursions were made usually by night, the
moon was proverbially called their lantern. Their celebrated pibroch of Hoggil nam Bo, which
is the name of their gathering tune, intimates similar practices, the sense being:--

     We are bound to drive the bullocks,
     All by hollows, hirsts, and hillocks,
     Through the sleet, and through the rain.
     When the moon is beaming low
     On frozen lake and hills of snow,
     Bold and heartily we go;
     And all for little gain.

NOTE 2, p. 22

This noble ruin is dear to my recollection, from associations which have been long and painfully
broken. It holds a commanding station on the banks of the river Teith, and has been one of
the largest castles in Scotland. Murdoch, Duke of Albany, the founder of this stately pile,
was beheaded on the Castle-hill of Stirling, from which he might see the towers of Doune, the
monument of his fallen greatness.

In 1745-46, as stated in the text, a garrison on the part of the Chevalier was put into the
castle, then less ruinous than at present. It was commanded by Mr. Stewart of Balloch, as governor
for Prince Charles; he was a man of property near Callander. This castle became at that time
the actual scene of a romantic escape made by John Home, the author of Douglas, and some other
prisoners, who, having been taken at the battle of Falkirk, were confined there by the insurgents.
The poet, who had in his own mind a large stock of that romantic and enthusiastic spirit of
adventure which he has described as animating the youthful hero of his drama, devised and undertook
the perilous enterprise of escaping from his prison. He inspired his companions with his sentiments,
and when every attempt at open force was deemed hopeless, they resolved to twist their bed-clothes
into ropes and thus to descend. Four persons, with Home himself, reached the ground in safety.
But the rope broke with the fifth, who was a tall, lusty man. The sixth was Thomas Barrow,
a brave young Englishman, a particular friend of Home's. Determined to take the risk, even
in such unfavourable circumstances, Barrow committed himself to the broken rope, slid down
on it as far as it could assist him, and then let himself drop. His friends beneath succeeded
in breaking his fall. Nevertheless, he dislocated his ankle and had several of his ribs broken.
His companions, however, were able to bear him off in safety.

The Highlanders next morning sought for their prisoners with great activity. An old gentleman
told the author he remembered seeing the commandant Stewart

    Bloody with spurring, fiery red with haste,

riding furiously through the country in quest of the fugitives.

NOTE 3, p. 28

To go out, or to have been out, in Scotland was a conventional phrase similar to that of the
Irish respecting a man having been up, both having reference to an individual who had been
engaged in insurrection. It was accounted ill-breeding in Scotland about forty years since
to use the phrase rebellion or rebel, which might be interpreted by some of the parties present
as a personal insult. It was also esteemed more polite, even for stanch Whigs, to denominate
Charles Edward the Chevalier than to speak of him as the Pretender; and this kind of accommodating
courtesy was usually observed in society where individuals of each party mixed on friendly terms.

NOTE 4, p. 38

The Jacobite sentiments were general among the western counties and in Wales. But although
the great families of the Wynnes, the Wyndhams, and others had come under an actual obligation
to join Prince Charles if he should land, they had done so under the express stipulation that
he should be assisted by an auxiliary army of French, without which they foresaw the enterprise
would be desperate. Wishing well to his cause, therefore, and watching an opportunity to join
him, they did not, nevertheless, think themselves bound in honour to do so, as he was only
supported by a body of wild mountaineers, speaking an uncouth dialect, and wearing a singular
dress. The race up to Derby struck them with more dread than admiration. But it is difficult
to say what the effect might have been had either the battle of Preston or Falkirk been fought
and won during the advance into England.

NOTE 5, p. 43

Divisions early showed themselves in the Chevalier's little army, not only amongst the independent
chieftains, who were far too proud to brook subjection to each other, but betwixt the Scotch
and Charles's governor O'Sullivan, an Irishman by birth, who, with some of his countrymen bred
in the Irish Brigade in the service of the King of France, had an influence with the Adventurer
much resented by the Highlanders, who were sensible that their own clans made the chief or
rather the only strength of his enterprise. There was a feud, also, between Lord George Murray
and John Murray of Broughton, the Prince's secretary, whose disunion greatly embarrassed the
affairs of the Adventurer. In general, a thousand different pretensions divided their little
army, and finally contributed in no small degree to its overthrow.

NOTE 6, p. 78

This circumstance, which is historical, as well as the description that precedes it, will remind
the reader of the war of La Vendee, in which the royalists, consisting chiefly of insurgent
peasantry, attached a prodigious and even superstitious interest to the possession of a piece
of brass ordnance, which they called Marie Jeanne.

The Highlanders of an early period were afraid of cannon, with the noise and effect of which
they were totally unacquainted. It was by means of three or four small pieces of artillery
that the Earls of Huntly and Errol, in James VI's time, gained a great victory at Glenlivat,
over a numerous Highland army, commanded by the Earl of Argyle. At the battle of the Bridge
of Dee, General Middleton obtained by his artillery a similar success, the Highlanders not
being able to stand the discharge of Musket's Mother, which was the name they bestowed on great
guns. In an old ballad on the battle of the Bridge of Dee these verses occur:--

       The Highlandmen are pretty men
         For handling sword and shield,
       But yet they are but simple men
         To stand a stricken field.

        The Highlandmen are pretty men
          For target and claymore,
        But yet they are but naked men
          To face the cannon's roar.

        For the cannons roar on a summer night
          Like thunder in the air;
        Was never man in Highland garb
          Would face the cannon fair

But the Highlanders of 1745 had got far beyond the simplicity of their forefathers, and showed
throughout the whole war how little they dreaded artillery, although the common people still
attached some consequence to the possession of the field-piece which led to this disquisition.

NOTE 7, p. 93

The faithful friend who pointed out the pass by which the Highlanders moved from Tranent to
Seaton was Robert Anderson, junior, of Whitburgh, a gentleman of property in East Lothian.
He had been interrogated by the Lord George Murray concerning the possibility of crossing the
uncouth and marshy piece of ground which divided the armies, and which he described as impracticable.
When dismissed, he recollected that there was a circuitous path leading eastward through the
marsh into the plain, by which the Highlanders might turn the flank of Sir John Cope's position
without being exposed to the enemy's fire. Having mentioned his opinion to Mr. Hepburn of Keith,
who instantly saw its importance, he was encouraged by that gentleman to awake Lord George
Murray and communicate the idea to him. Lord George received the information with grateful
thanks, and instantly awakened Prince Charles, who was sleeping in the field with a bunch of
pease under his head. The Adventurer received with alacrity the news that there was a possibility
of bringing an excellently provided army to a decisive battle with his own irregular forces.
His joy on the occasion was not very consistent with the charge of cowardice brought against
him by Chevalier Johnstone, a discontented follower, whose Memoirs possess at least as much
of a romantic as a historical character. Even by the account of the Chevalier himself, the
Prince was at the head of the second line of the Highland army during the battle, of which
he says, 'It was gained with such rapidity that in the second line, where I was still by the
side of the Prince, we saw no other enemy than those who were lying on the ground killed and
wounded, though we were not more than fifty paces behind our first line, running always as
fast as we could to overtake them.'

This passage in the Chevalier's Memoirs places the Prince within fifty paces of the heat of
the battle, a position which would never have been the choice of one unwilling to take a share
of its dangers. Indeed, unless the chiefs had complied with the young Adventurer's proposal
to lead the van in person, it does not appear that he could have been deeper in the action.

NOTE 8, p. 100

The death of this good Christian and gallant man is thus given by his affectionate biographer,
Doctor Doddridge, from the evidence of eye-witnesses:--

'He continued all night under arms, wrapped up in his cloak, and generally sheltered under
a rick of barley which happened to be in the field. About three in the morning he called his
domestic servants to him, of which there were four in waiting. He dismissed three of them with
most affectionate Christian advice, and such solemn charges relating to the performance of
their duty, and the care of their souls, as seemed plainly to intimate that he apprehended
it was at least very probable he was taking his last farewell of them. There is great reason
to believe that he spent the little remainder of the time, which could not be much above an
hour, in those devout exercises of soul which had been so long habitual to him, and to which
so many circumstances did then concur to call him. The army was alarmed by break of day by
the noise of the rebels' approach, and the attack was made before sunrise, yet when it was
light enough to discern what passed. As soon as the enemy came within gun-shot they made a
furious fire; and it is said that the dragoons which constituted the left wing immediately
fled. The Colonel at the beginning of the onset, which in the whole lasted but a few minutes,
received a wound by a bullet in his left breast, which made him give a sudden spring in his
saddle; upon which his servant, who led the horse, would have persuaded him to retreat, but
he said it was only a wound in the flesh, and fought on, though he presently after received
a shot in his right thigh. In the mean time, it was discerned that some of the enemy fell by
him, and particularly one man who had made him a treacherous visit but a few days before, with
great professions of zeal for the present establishment.

'Events of this kind pass in less time than the description of them can be written, or than
it can be read. The Colonel was for a few moments supported by his men, and particularly by
that worthy person Lieutenant-Colonel Whitney, who was shot through the arm here, and a few
months after fell nobly at the battle of Falkirk, and by Lieutenant West, a man of distinguished
bravery, as also by about fifteen dragoons, who stood by him to the last. But after a faint
fire, the regiment in general was seized with a panic; and though their Colonel and some other
gallant officers did what they could to rally them once or twice, they at last took a precipitate
flight. And just in the moment when Colonel Gardiner seemed to be making a pause to deliberate
what duty required him to do in such circumstances, an accident happened, which must, I think,
in the judgment of every worthy and generous man, be allowed a sufficient apology for exposing
his life to so great hazard, when his regiment had left him. He saw a party of the foot, who
were then bravely fighting near him, and whom he was ordered to support, had no officer to
head them; upon which he said eagerly, in the hearing of the person from whom I had this account,
"These brave fellows will be cut to pieces for want of a commander," or words to that effect;
which while he was speaking he rode up to them and cried out, "Fire on, my lads, and fear nothing."
But just as the words were out of his mouth, a Highlander advanced towards him with a scythe
fastened to a long pole, with which he gave him so dreadful a wound on his right arm, that
his sword dropped out of his hand; and at the same time several others coming about him while
he was thus dreadfully entangled with that cruel weapon, he was dragged off from his horse.
The moment he fell, another Highlander, who, if the king's evidence at Carlisle may be credited
(as I know not why they should not, though the unhappy creature died denying it), was one Mac-Naught,
who was executed about a year after, gave him a stroke either with a broadsword or a Lochaber-axe
(for my informant could not exactly distinguish) on the hinder part of his head, which was
the mortal blow. All that his faithful attendant saw farther at this time was that, as his
hat was fallen off, he took it in his left hand and waved it as a signal to him to retreat,
and added, what were the last words he ever heard him speak, "Take care of yourself"; upon
which the servant retired.'--Some Remarkable Passages in the Life of Colonel James Gardiner.
By P. Doddridge, D.D. London, 1747, P.187.

I may remark on this extract, that it confirms the account given in the text of the resistance
offered by some of the English infantry. Surprised by a force of a peculiar and unusual description,
their opposition could not be long or formidable, especially as they were deserted by the cavalry,
and those who undertook to manage the artillery. But, although the affair was soon decided,
I have always understood that many of the infantry showed an inclination to do their duty.

NOTE 9, p. 101

It is scarcely necessary to say that the character of this brutal young Laird is entirely imaginary.
A gentleman, however, who resembled Balmawhapple in the article of courage only, fell at Preston
in the manner described. A Perthshire gentleman of high honour and respectability, one of the
handful of cavalry who followed the fortunes of Charles Edward, pursued the fugitive dragoons
almost alone till near Saint Clement's Wells, where the efforts of some of the officers had
prevailed on a few of them to make a momentary stand. Perceiving at this moment that they were
pursued by only one man and a couple of servants, they turned upon him and cut him down with
their swords. A female of the family then residing at Saint Clement's Wells used to tell me
the tragedy, of which she had been an eye-witness, and showed me in evidence one of the silver
clasps of the unfortunate gentleman's waistcoat.

NOTE 10, p. 118

The name of Andrea de Ferrara is inscribed on all the Scottish broadswords which are accounted
of peculiar excellence. Who this artist was, what were his fortunes, and when he flourished,
have hitherto defied the research of antiquaries; only it is in general believed that Andrea
de Ferrara was a Spanish or Italian artificer, brought over by James IV or V to instruct the
Scots in the manufacture of sword blades. Most barbarous nations excel in the fabrication of
arms; and the Scots had attained great proficiency in forging swords so early as the field
of Pinkie; at which period the historian Patten describes them as 'all notably broad and thin,
universally made to slice, and of such exceeding good temper that, as I never saw any so good,
so I think it hard to devise better.'--Account of Somerset's Expedition.

It may be observed that the best and most genuine Andrea Ferraras have a crown marked on the blade.

NOTE 11, p. 124

The incident here said to have happened to Flora Mac-Ivor actually befell Miss Nairne, a lady
with whom the author had the pleasure of being acquainted. As the Highland army rushed into
Edinburgh, Miss Nairne, like other ladies who approved of their cause, stood waving her handkerchief
from a balcony, when a ball from a Highlander's musket, which was discharged by accident, grazed
her forehead. 'Thank God,' said she, the instant she recovered,'that the accident happened
to me, whose principles are known. Had it befallen a Whig, they would have said it was done
on purpose.'

NOTE 12, p. 185

The Author of Waverley has been charged with painting the young Adventurer in colours more
amiable than his character deserved. But having known many individuals who were near his person,
he has been described according to the light in which those eye-witnesses saw his temper and
qualifications. Something must be allowed, no doubt, to the natural exaggerations of those
who remembered him as the bold and adventurous Prince in whose cause they had braved death
and ruin; but is their evidence to give place entirely to that of a single malcontent?

I have already noticed the imputations thrown by the Chevalier Johnstone on the Prince's courage.
But some part at least of that gentleman's tale is purely romantic. It would not, for instance,
be supposed that at the time he is favouring us with the highly wrought account of his amour
with the adorable Peggie, the Chevalier Johnstone was a married man, whose grandchild is now
alive; or that the whole circumstantial story concerning the outrageous vengeance taken by
Gordon of Abbachie on a Presbyterian clergyman is entirely apocryphal. At the same time it
may be admitted that the Prince, like others of his family, did not esteem the services done
him by his adherents so highly as he ought. Educated in high ideas of his hereditary right,
he has been supposed to have held every exertion and sacrifice made in his cause as too much
the duty of the person making it to merit extravagant gratitude on his part. Dr. King's evidence
(which his leaving the Jacobite interest renders somewhat doubtful) goes to strengthen this
opinion.

The ingenious editor of Johnstone's Memoirs has quoted a story said to be told by Helvetius,
stating that Prince Charles Edward, far from voluntarily embarking on his daring expedition,
was, literally bound hand and foot, and to which he seems disposed to yield credit. Now, it
being a fact as well known as any in his history, and, so far as I know, entirely undisputed,
that the Prince's personal entreaties and urgency positively forced Boisdale and Lochiel into
insurrection, when they were earnestly desirous that he would put off his attempt until he
could obtain a sufficient force from France, it will be very difficult to reconcile his alleged
reluctance to undertake the expedition with his desperately insisting upon carrying the rising
into effect against the advice and entreaty of his most powerful and most sage partizans. Surely
a man who had been carried bound on board the vessel which brought him to so desperate an enterprise
would have taken the opportunity afforded by the reluctance of his partizans to return to France
in safety.

It is averred in Johnstone's Memoirs that Charles Edward left the field of Culloden without
doing the utmost to dispute the victory; and, to give the evidence on both sides, there is
in existence the more trustworthy testimony of Lord Elcho, who states that he himself earnestly
exhorted the Prince to charge at the head of the left wing, which was entire, and retrieve
the day or die with honour. And on his counsel being declined, Lord Elcho took leave of him
with a bitter execration, swearing he would never look on his face again, and kept his word.

On the other hand, it seems to have been the opinion of almost all the other officers that
the day was irretrievably lost, one wing of the Highlanders being entirely routed, the rest
of the army outnumbered, outflanked, and in a condition totally hopeless. In this situation
of things the Irish officers who surrounded Charles's person interfered to force him off the
field. A cornet who was close to the Prince left a strong attestation that he had seen Sir
Thomas Sheridan seize the bridle of his horse and turn him round. There is some discrepancy
of evidence; but the opinion of Lord Elcho, a man of fiery temper and desperate at the ruin
which he beheld impending, cannot fairly be taken in prejudice of a character for courage which
is intimated by the nature of the enterprise itself, by the Prince's eagerness to fight on
all occasions, by his determination to advance from Derby to London, and by the presence of
mind which he manifested during the romantic perils of his escape. The author is far from claiming
for this unfortunate person the praise due to splendid talents; but he continues to be of opinion
that at the period of his enterprise he had a mind capable of facing danger and aspiring to fame.

That Charles Edward had the advantages of a graceful presence, courtesy, and an address and
manner becoming his station, the author never heard disputed by any who approached his person,
nor does he conceive that these qualities are overcharged in the present attempt to sketch
his portrait.

The following extracts corroborative of the general opinion respecting the Prince's amiable
disposition are taken from a manuscript account of his romantic expedition, by James Maxwell
of Kirkconnell, of which I possess a copy, by the friendship of J. Menzies, Esq., of Pitfoddells.
The author, though partial to the Prince, whom he faithfully followed, seems to have been a
fair and candid man, and well acquainted with the intrigues among the adventurer's council:--

'Everybody was mightily taken with the Prince's figure and personal behaviour. There was but
one voice about them. Those whom interest or prejudice made a runaway to his cause could not
help acknowledging that they wished him well in all other respects, and could hardly blame
him for his present undertaking. Sundry things had concurred to raise his character to the
highest pitch, besides the greatness of the enterprise and the conduct that had hitherto appeared
in the execution of it.

'There were several instances of good nature and humanity that had made a great impression
on people's minds. I shall confine myself to two or three.

'Immediately after the battle, as the Prince was riding along the ground that Cope's army had
occupied a few minutes before, one of the officers came up to congratulate him, and said, pointing
to the killed, "Sir, there are your enemies at your feet." The Prince, far from exulting, expressed
a great deal of compassion for his father's deluded subjects, whom he declared he was heartily
sorry to see in that posture.

'Next day, while the Prince was at Pinkie House, a citizen of Edinburgh came to make some representation
to Secretary Murray about the tents that city was ordered to furnish against a certain day.
Murray happened to be out of the way, which the Prince hearing of called to have the gentleman
brought to him, saying, he would rather despatch the business, whatever it was, himself than
have the gentleman wait, which he did, by granting everything that was asked. So much affability
in a young prince flushed with victory drew encomiums even from his enemies.

'But what gave the people the highest idea of him was the negative he gave to a thing that
very nearly concerned his interest, and upon which the success of his enterprise perhaps depended.
It was proposed to send one of the prisoners to London to demand of that court a cartel for
the exchange of prisoners taken, and to be taken, during this war, and to intimate that a refusal
would be looked upon as a resolution on their part to give no quarter. It was visible a cartel
would be of great advantage to the Prince's affairs; his friends would be more ready to declare
for him if they had nothing to fear but the chance of war in the field; and if the court of
London refused to settle a cartel, the Prince was authorised to treat his prisoners in the
same manner the Elector of Hanover was determined to treat such of the Prince's friends as
might fall into his hands; it was urged that a few examples would compel the court of London
to comply. It was to be presumed that the officers of the English army would make a point of
it. They had never engaged in the service but upon such terms as are in use among all civilised
nations, and it could be no stain upon their honour to lay down their commissions if these
terms were not observed, and that owing to the obstinacy of their own Prince. Though this scheme
was plausible, and represented as very important, the Prince could never be brought into it,
it was below him, he said, to make empty threats, and he would never put such as those into
execution; he would never in cold blood take away lives which he had saved in heat of action
at the peril of his own. These were not the only proofs of good nature the Prince gave about
this time. Every day produced something new of this kind. These things softened the rigour
of a military government which was only imputed to the necessity of his affairs, and which
he endeavoured to make as gentle and easy as possible.'

It has been said that the Prince sometimes exacted more state and ceremonial than seemed to
suit his condition; but, on the other hand, some strictness of etiquette was altogether indispensable
where he must otherwise have been exposed to general intrusion. He could also endure, with
a good grace, the retorts which his affectation of ceremony sometimes exposed him to. It is
said, for example, that Grant of Glenmoriston having made a hasty march to join Charles, at
the head of his clan, rushed into the Prince's presence at Holyrood with unceremonious haste,
without having attended to the duties of the toilet. The Prince received him kindly, but not
without a hint that a previous interview with the barber might not have been wholly unnecessary.
'It is not beardless boys,' answered the displeased Chief, 'who are to do your Royal Highness's
turn.' The Chevalier took the rebuke in good part.

On the whole, if Prince Charles had concluded his life soon after his miraculous escape, his
character in history must have stood very high. As it was, his station is amongst those a certain
brilliant portion of whose life forms a remarkable contrast to all which precedes and all which
follows it.

NOTE 13, p. 195

The following account of the skirmish at Clifton is extracted from the manuscript Memoirs of
Evan Macpherson of Cluny, Chief of the clan Macpherson, who had the merit of supporting the
principal brunt of that spirited affair. The Memoirs appear to have been composed about 1755,
only ten years after the action had taken place. They were written in France, where that gallant
chief resided in exile, which accounts for some Gallicisms which occur in the narrative.

'In the Prince's return from Derby back towards Scotland, my Lord George Murray, Lieutenant-General,
cheerfully charg'd himself with the command of the rear, a post which, altho' honourable, was
attended with great danger, many difficulties, and no small fatigue; for the Prince, being
apprehensive that his retreat to Scotland might be cut off by Marischall Wade, who lay to the
northward of him with an armie much supperior to what H.R.H. had, while the Duke of Comberland
with his whole cavalrie followed hard in the rear, was obliged to hasten his marches. It was
not, therefore, possible for the artilirie to march so fast as the Prince's army, in the depth
of winter, extremely bad weather, and the worst roads in England; so Lord George Murray was
obliged often to continue his marches long after it was dark almost every night, while at the
same time he had frequent allarms and disturbances from the Duke of Comberland's advanc'd parties.

'Towards the evening of the twentie-eight December 1745 the Prince entered the town of Penrith,
in the Province of Comberland. But as Lord George Murray could not bring up the artilirie so
fast as he wou'd have wish'd, he was oblig'd to pass the night six miles short of that town,
together with the regiment of MacDonel of Glengarrie, which that day happened to have the arrear
guard. The Prince, in order to refresh his armie, and to give My Lord George and the artilirie
time to come up, resolved to sejour the 29th at Penrith; so ordered his little army to appear
in the morning under arms, in order to be reviewed, and to know in what manner the numbers
stood from his haveing entered England. It did not at that time amount to 5000 foot in all,
with about 400 cavalrie, compos'd of the noblesse who serv'd as volunteers, part of whom form'd
a first troop of guards for the Prince, under the command of My Lord Elchoe, now Comte de Weems,
who, being proscribed, is presently in France. Another part formed a second troup of guards
under the command of My Lord Balmirino, who was beheaded at the Tower of London. A third part
serv'd under My Lord le Comte de Kilmarnock, who was likewise beheaded at the Tower. A fourth
part serv'd under My Lord Pitsligow, who is also proscribed; which cavalrie, tho' very few
in numbers, being all noblesse, were very brave, and of infinite advantage to the foot, not
only in the day of battle, but in serving as advanced guards on the several marches, and in
patroling dureing the night on the different roads which led towards the towns where the army
happened to quarter.

'While this small army was out in a body on the 2Qth December, upon a riseing ground to the
northward of Penrith, passing review, Mons. de Cluny, with his tribe, was ordered to the Bridge
of Clifton, about a mile to southward of Penrith, after having pass'd in review before Mons.
Pattullo, who was charged with the inspection of the troops, and was likeways Quarter-Master-General
of the army, and is now in France. They remained under arms at the bridge, waiting the arrival
of My Lord George Murray with the artilirie, whom Mons. de Cluny had orders to cover in passing
the bridge. They arrived about sunsett closly pursued by the Duke of Comberland with the whole
body of his cavalrie, reckoned upwards of 3000 strong, about a thousand of whom, as near as
might be computed, dismounted, in order to cut off the passage of the artilirie towards the
bridge, while the Duke and the others remained on horseback in order to attack the rear.

'My Lord George Murray advanced, and although he found Mons. de Cluny and his tribe in good
spirits under arms, yet the circumstance appear'd extremely delicate. The numbers were vastly
unequall, and the attack seem'd very dangerous; so My Lord George declin'd giving orders to
such time as he ask'd Mons. de Cluny's oppinion. "I will attack them with all my heart," says
Mons. de Cluny, "if you order me." "I do order it then," answered My Lord George, and immediately
went on himself along with Mons. de Cluny, and fought sword in hand on foot at the head of
the single tribe of Macphersons. They in a moment made their way through a strong hedge of
thorns, under the cover whereof the cavalrie had taken their station, in the strugle of passing
which hedge My Lord George Murray, being dressed en montagnard, as all the army were, lost
his bonet and wig; so continued to fight bare-headed during the action. They at first made
a brisk discharge of their firearms on the enemy, then attacked them with their sabres, and
made a great slaughter a considerable time, which obliged Comberland and his cavalrie to fly
with precipitation and in great confusion; in so much that, if the Prince had been provided
in a sufficient number of cavalrie to have taken advantage of the disorder, it is beyond question
that the Duke of Comberland and the bulk of his cavalrie had been taken prisoners.

'By this time it was so dark that it was not possible to view or number the slain who filled
all the ditches which happened to be on the ground where they stood. But it was computed that,
besides those who went off wounded, upwards of a hundred at least were left on the spot, among
whom was Colonel Honywood, who commanded the dismounted cavalrie, whose sabre of considerable
value Mons. de Cluny brought off and still preserves; and his tribe lykeways brought off many
arms;--the Colonel was afterwards taken up, and, his wounds being dress'd, with great difficultie
recovered. Mons. de Cluny lost only in the action twelve men, of whom some haveing been only
wounded, fell afterwards into the hands of the enemy, and were sent as slaves to America, whence
several of them returned, and one of them is now in France, a sergeant in the Regiment of Royal
Scots. How soon the accounts of the enemies approach had reached the Prince, H.R.H. had immediately
ordered Mi-Lord le Comte de Nairne, Brigadier, who, being proscribed, is now in France, with
the three batalions of the Duke of Athol, the batalion of the Duke of Perth, and some other
troups under his command, in order to support Cluny, and to bring off the artilirie. But the
action was entirely over before the Comte de Nairne, with his command, cou'd reach nigh to
the place. They therefore return'd all to Penrith, and the artilirie marched up in good order.

'Nor did the Duke of Comberland ever afterwards dare to come within a day's march of the Prince
and his army dureing the course of all that retreat, which was conducted with great prudence
and safety when in some manner surrounded by enemies.'

NOTE 14, p. 215

As the heathen deities contracted an indelible obligation if they swore by Styx, the Scottish
Highlanders had usually some peculiar solemnity attached to an oath which they intended should
be binding on them. Very frequently it consisted in laying their hand, as they swore, on their
own drawn dirk; which dagger, becoming a party to the transaction, was invoked to punish any
breach of faith. But by whatever ritual the oath was sanctioned, the party was extremely desirous
to keep secret what the especial oath was which he considered as irrevocable. This was a matter
of great convenience, as he felt no scruple in breaking his asseveration when made in any other
form than that which he accounted as peculiarly solemn; and therefore readily granted any engagement
which bound him no longer than he inclined. Whereas, if the oath which he accounted inviolable
was once publicly known, no party with whom he might have occasion to contract would have rested
satisfied with any other.

Louis XI of France practised the same sophistry, for he also had a peculiar species of oath,
the only one which he was ever known to respect, and which, therefore, he was very unwilling
to pledge. The only engagement which that wily tyrant accounted binding upon him was an oath
by the Holy Cross of Saint Lo d'Angers, which contained a portion of the True Cross. If he
prevaricated after taking this oath Louis believed he should die within the year. The Constable
Saint Paul, being invited to a personal conference with Louis, refused to meet the king unless
he would agree to ensure him safe conduct under sanction of this oath. But, says Comines, the
king replied, he would never again pledge that engagement to mortal man, though he was willing
to take any other oath which could be devised. The treaty broke oft, therefore, after much
chaffering concerning the nature of the vow which Louis was to take. Such is the difference
between the dictates of superstition and those of conscience.

GLOSSARY

A', all.

ABOON, abune, above.

AE, one.

AFF, off.

AFORE, before.

AHINT, behind.

AIN, own.

AITS, oats.

AMAIST, almost.

AMBRY, a cupboard, a pantry.

AN, if.

ANE, one.

ANEUCH, enough.

ARRAY, annoy, trouble.

ASSOILZIED, absolved, acquitted.

ASSYTHMENT, satisfaction,

AULD, old.

BAFF, a blow.

BAGGANET, a bayonet.

BAILIE, a city magistrate in Scotland.

BAIRN, a child.

BAITH, both.

BANES, bones.

BANG-UP, get up quickly, bounce.

BARLEY, a parley, a truce.

BAULD, bold.

BAULDER, bolder.

BAWBEE, a halfpenny.

BAWTY, sly, cunning.

BEES, in the, bewildered, stupefied.

BEFLUMM'D, flattered, cajoled.

BEGUNK, a trick, a cheat.

BEN, within, inside.

BENEMPT, named.

BICKER, a wooden dish.

BIDE, stay, endure.

BIELDY, affording shelter.

BIGGING, building.

BIRLIEMAN, a peace officer.

BLACK-COCK, the black grouse.

BLACK-FISHING, ashing by torchlight, poaching.

BLUDE, bluid, blood.

BODDLE, bodle, a copper coin, worth one third of an English penny.

BOGLE ABOUT THE BUSH, beat about the bush, a children's game.

BONNIE, beautiful, comely, fine,

BOUNE, prepared.

BRA', fine, handsome, showy.

BRANDER, broil.

BREEKS, breeches.

BRENT, smooth, unwrinkled.

BROGUES, Highland shoes.

BROO, brew, broth.

BRUCKLE, brittle, infirm.

BRUIK, enjoy.

BRULZIE, bruilzie, a broil, a fray.

BUCKIE, a perverse or refractory person.

BUTTOCK-MAIL, a fine for fornication.

BYDAND, awaiting.

CA', call.

CADGER, a country carrier.

CANNILY, prudently.

CANNY, cautious, lucky.

CARLE, a churl, an old man.

CATERAN, a freebooter.

CHIEL, a young man.

CLACHAN, a village, a hamlet.

CLAMYHEWIT, a blow, a drubbing.

CLASH, chatter, gossip.

CLATTER, tattle, noisy talk.

CLOSE, a narrow passage.

CLOUR, a bump, a bruise.

COCKY-LEEKY, a soup made of a cock, seasoned with leeks.

COGHLING AND DROGHLING, wheezing and blowing.

CORONACH, a dirge.

CORRIE, a mountain hollow.

COUP, fall.

COW YER CRACKS, cut short your talk, hold your tongues.

CRACK, boast.

CRAIG, the neck, the throat.

CRAMES, merchants' shops, booths.

CUT-LUGGED, crop-eared.

DAFT, foolish, mad, crazy.

DAUR, dare.

DEAVING, deafening.

DECREET, an order of decree.

DELIVER, light, agile.

DERN, hidden, concealed, secret.

DING, knock, beat, surpass.

DINGLE, dinnle, tingle, vibrate with sound.

DOER, an agent, a manager.

DOG-HEAD, the hammer of a gun.

DOILED, crazed, silly.

DOITED, having the faculties impaired.

DORLACH, a bundle.

DOW, a dove.

DOWF, dowff, dull, spiritless.

DRAPPIE, a little drop, a small quantity of drink.

EFFEIR, what is becoming.

ENEUGH, enough.

ETTER-CAP, a spider, an ill-natured person.

EVITE, avoid, escape.

EWEST, ewast, contiguous.

FALLOW, a fellow.

FAULD, fold.

FEARED, afraid.

FECK, a quantity.

FLEYT, frightened, shy.

FRAE, from.

GAD, a goad, a rod.

GANE, gone; gang, go.

GAR, make.

GATE, way.

GAUN, going.

GEAR, goods.

GHAIST, a ghost.

GIN, if.

GITE, crazy, a noodle,

GLED, a kite.

GLEG, quick, clever.

GLISK, a glimpse.

GOWD, gold.

GRANING, groaning.

GRAT, wept.

GREE, agree.

GREYBEARD, a stone bottle or jug.

GRICE, gryce, gris, a pig.

GRIPPLE, griping, niggardly.

GUDE, guid, good.

HAGGIS, a pudding peculiar to Scotland, containing oatmeal, suet, minced sheep's liver, heart,
etc., seasoned with onions, pepper, and salt, the whole mixture boiled in a sheep's stomach.

HAIL, whole.

HECK, a hay rack; at heck and manger, in plenty.

HET, hot.

HOG, a young sheep before its first shearing.

HORSE-COUPER, horse-cowper, a horse-dealer.

HURDLES, the buttocks.

HURLEY-HOUSE, a large house fallen into disrepair.

 ILK, same; of that ilk, of the same name or place,

ILKA, every.

INGLE, a fire burning upon the hearth.

IN THE BEES, stupefied.

KEEPIT, kept.

KEMPLE, a Scotch measure of straw or hay.

KEN, know.

KIPPAGE, disorder, confusion.

KIRK, church.

KITTLE, tickle, ticklish.

LAIRD, lord of the manor.

LANDLOUPER, a wanderer, a vagabond.

LEDDY, a lady.

LIGHTLY, make light of, disparage.

LIMMER, a hussy, a jade.

LOON, a worthless fellow, a lout.

LOUP, leap, start.

LUG, an ear.

LUNZIE, the loins, the waist.

MAE, more.

MAINS, the chief farm of an estate.

MAIR, more.

MAIST, most, almost. MART, beef salted down for winter.

MASK, mash, infuse.

MAUN, must.

MERK, an old silver coin worth 13 1/3 pence, English.

MICKLE, large, much.

MORN, tomorrow.

MOUSTED, powdered.

MUCKLE, great, much.

MUNT, mount.

MUTCHKIN, a measure equal to about three quarters of an imperial pint.

NA, nae, no, not.

NAIGS, horses.

NAIL, the sixteenth part of a yard.

NATHELESS, nevertheless.

NEB, nose, tip.

NE'ER BE IN ME, devil be in me.

OLD TO DO, great doings.

OWER, over.

PAITRICK, a partridge.

PANGED, crammed.

PARRITCH, oatmeal porridge.

PAUNIE, a peacock.

PECULIUM, private property.

PINNERS, a headdress for women.

PLACK, a copper coin worth one third of a penny.

PLAIDY, an outer covering for the body.

PLENISH, furnish.

PLOY, an entertainment, a pastime.

POTTINGER, an apothecary.

POWNIE, a pony.

POWTERING, poking, stirring.

PRETTY MAN, a stout, warlike fellow.

QUEAN, a young woman.

REDD, part, separate.

REISES, twigs, branches.

RESILING, retracting, withdrawing.

RIGGS, ridges, ploughed ground.

RINTHEROUT, a roving person, a vagabond.

ROW, roll.

ROWED, rolled.

ROWT, cried out, bellowed,

ROYNISH, scurvy, coarse.

SAE, so.

ST. JOHNSTONE'S TIPPET, a rope or halter for hanging.

SAIR, sore, very.

SALL, shall.

SARK, a shirt.

SAUMON, a salmon.

SAUT, salt.

SCARTED, scratched, scribbled over.

SCHELLUM, a rascal.

SCROLL, engross, copy.

SHANKS, legs.

SHEERS, shears.

SHOUTHER, the shoulder.

SICCAN, sic, such.

SILLER, money.

SILLY, weak.

SKIG, the least quantity of anything.

SMA', small.

SMOKY, suspicious.

SNECK, cut.

SORTED, put in proper order, adjusted.

SOWENS, the seeds of oatmeal soured.

SPEER, ask, investigate.

SPENCE, the place where provisions are kept.

SPRACK, lively.

SPRECHERY, movables of an unimportant sort.

SPUILZIE, spoil.

SPUNG, pick one's pocket.

STIEVE, firm.

STOOR, rough, harsh.

STRAE, straw.

STREEKS, stretches, lies.

SWAIR, swore.

SYNE, before, now, ago.

TAIGLIT, harassed, encumbered, loitered.

TAULD, told.

THAE, those.

THIR, these.

THOLE, bear, suffer.

THRAW, twist, wrench.

THREEPIT, maintained obstinately.

THROSTLE, the thrush.

TILL, to.

TIRRIVIES, hasty fits of passion,

TOCHERLESS, without dowry.

TOUN, a town, a hamlet, a farm.

TOY, an old-fashioned cap for women.

TREWS, trousers.

TRINDLING, rolling.

TROW, believe.

TUILZIE, a quarrel

TUME, toom, empty.

TURNSPIT DOGGIE, a kind of dog, long-bodied and short-legged, formerly used in turning a treadmill.

TYKE, a dog, a rough fellow.

UMQUHILE, formerly, late.

UNCO, strange, very,

UNSONSY, unlucky.

USQUEBAUGH, whiskey.

VENY, venue, a bout.

VIVERS, victuals.

WA', wall

WAD, would.

WADSET, a deed conveying property to a creditor

WAIN, a wagon; to remove.

WALISE, a portmanteau, saddlebags.

WAN, won.

WANCHANCY, unlucky.

WARE, spend.

WEEL-FARD, weel-faur'd, having a good appearance.

WEISING, inclining, directing.

WHA, who.

WHAR, where,

WHAT FOR, why.

WHEEN, a few.

WHILE SYNE, a while ago.

WHILES, sometimes.

WHILK, which.

WHIN, a few.

WHINGEING, whining.

WINNA, will not.

WISKE, whisk.

YATE, gate.