Saturday, 14th June, River Strangways. Named after the Honourable H.B. Templar Strangways,
Commissioner of Crown Lands, South Australia, and who, since his taking office, has done all
in his power to promote exploration of the interior. Sent King and Billiatt back with the horses
to the camp at Purdie Ponds, whilst I proceed with the further examination of the creek. I
find it now running to the east of north, and the stony rises are closing upon it at two miles
and a half. They begin to assume the shape of hills, which causes the travelling to be rather
rough. At three miles and a half the hills run close to the creek, and are precipitous; the
bed is very rough and stony--so much so that I could not take the horses down it. Ascended
a hill near the creek to see what it and the country ahead was like; the hills being so rough
that I could not get the horses close enough to see if there was any water, dismounted and
scrambled to the top of the precipices; was delighted to see below me a large hole of water.
Sent the horses across a gully to another hill still higher, while I descended into the creek;
found the bed very rough, having large masses of sandstone and ironstone, which rendered it
impassable for the horses. Found the water to be deep and beautifully clear; proceeded down
a little further, and saw another large one. The hills close to the creek are very precipitous,
and we shall have difficulty in getting the horses down to water; the hills, where they come
close to the creek, are covered with spinifex. I shall therefore require to camp the party
at the mouth of the gorge, where there is plenty of feed. The hill I had sent the horses to
was so rocky they were unable to cross it, and there being higher hills still on ahead, I have
left the horses with Auld, and, taking Thring with me, have walked to the top of it to see
what course the creek was taking, but they are all so much of the same height and appearance
that I can scarcely tell in which direction it runs. There is an appearance of a large creek
coming in from the westward, and higher hills towards the north. I shall return and send the
party on to this permanent water, and try to find an easy road over the ranges for them. I
would have gone on to-day, but my horses are without shoes, and some of them are already lame,
and the shoes I brought with me are nearly all exhausted; we have not been using any since
shortly after leaving South Australia. Returned to our last night's camp, where we had left
the canvas tank with some water that the horses did not drink in the morning; gave them what
remained, and proceeded up the creeks to the last water we saw yesterday, where we arrived
at sundown and camped. Wind, south.

Sunday, 15th June, River Strangways. Returned to the Depot at Purdie Ponds; found all well.
Wind, south-east. Cool.

Monday, 16th June, Purdie Ponds. It was late before the horses could be found. Proceeded to
the first pool of water in the River Strangways, distance about ten miles, and camped. Wind,
south-east.

Tuesday, 17th June, River Strangways. Proceeded down the creek to the gorge and camped; day
very hot. We had some difficulty in finding a way down for the horses to drink, it being so
very rough and stony, but at last succeeded. On the west side there is a layer of rocks on
the top of the hard sandstone, black and rugged, resembling lava; spinifex close to the creek.
Wind, south-east.

Wednesday, 18th June, Gorge, River Strangways. I shall require to have some of the horses shod
for further exploration, and shall therefore remain here to-day to get that done. I sent Thring
and King a little way down the creek to see what the country is, and if there is any more water.
They went about nine miles, but could see no more. In some places the country is sandy, and
in others stony and grassy. Mr. Kekwick has discovered four new trees that we have not seen
before, and several new shrubs. Some of the party succeeded in catching a few fine large fish,
some of them weighing two pounds and a half. Some were of the perch family, and others resembled
rock cod, with three remarkable black spots on each side of their bodies. There are also some
small ones resembling the gold fish, and other small ones with black stripes on their sides,
resembling pilot fish. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 15 degrees 30 minutes 3 seconds.

Thursday, 19th June, Gorge, River Strangways. Leaving Mr. Kekwick in charge of the party, started
with Thring, Auld, and King, to look for water. No rain seems to have fallen here for a long
time back; the grass is quite dry and withered. At 8.15 proceeded down the river, and, to avoid
the hills, I went about a mile to the west, and found a very passable road; for about two miles
we had sandy soil and spinifex mixed with grass, also a few stony rises of lime and sandstone.
The country after that again became excellently grassed, the soil light and a little sandy.
No water in the bed, which appears to have a very rapid fall; its general course is about north-north-east.
At twelve miles, seeing a stony hill of considerable elevation, I left the bed, and went towards
it. At the base of it was a deep creek; I was pleased to see a fine supply of water in it.
I immediately sent Thring back to guide the party up here to-morrow, whilst I with the two
others proceeded with the examination of the river further down. After following it for about
ten miles through a beautifully grassed country, passing occasionally sandstone rises, with
apparently scrub on their tops, camped at the base of one of them.

Friday, 20th June, First Camp North of Gorge. Returned to the other water, and at noon met
the party and brought them on to this water. We have passed a few stringy-bark trees. In the
bed of the river there is growing some very large and tall timber, having a dark-coloured bark,
the leaf jointed the same as the shea-oak, but has not the acid taste: the horses eat it. There
are also some very fine melaleuca-trees, which here seem to displace the gums in the river.
We have also passed some more new trees and shrubs. Frew, in looking about the banks, found
a large creeper with a yellow blossom, and having a large bean pod growing on it. I shall endeavour
to get some of the seed as we go on to-morrow. I shall now move on with the whole party, and
I trust to find water in the river as long as I follow it; its banks are getting much deeper
and broader, and likely to retain water; it is dreadfully slow work to keep searching for water.
Before this I could not do otherwise, in consequence of the season being so very dry. Since
the commencement of the journey the only rain that we have had to have any effect upon the
creeks was at Mr. Levi's station, Mount Margaret. Since then we have had only two or three
showers, which have had no effect upon the creeks. Light winds, south-east. Latitude, 15 degrees
15 minutes 23 seconds.

Saturday, 21st June, First Camp North of Gorge. It was late before we could get a start, in
consequence of our not being able to find two of the horses which separated from the rest during
the night. Started, following the river down; it frequently separating into two or three channels,
and again joining. Numerous small watercourses are coming in on both sides, from east and west;
it winds about a great deal--its general course to-day for nine miles has been nearly north-north-east.
We passed a number of large lagoons, nearly dry, close to the stony hills: when full they must
retain water for a long time. There is very little water in the main channel. At nine miles
I found a large and excellent pool of water in one of the side creeks; it will last some time.
It being now afternoon, and there being a nice open plain for the horses, I have camped. The
river is now running through stony hills, which are very rough, composed of hard sandstone
mixed with veins of quartz, some of which are very hard, much resembling marble with crystalline
grains in it. We are now passing a number of stringy bark along with gum and other trees, Mr.
Kekwick still finding new shrubs. After we had camped, taking Thring with me, I ascended a
hill a little way from the camp, but was disappointed in not having an extensive view. To the
north, which is now apparently the course of the river, there seems to be an opening in the
range of stony hills. The dip of the country seems to be that way. At 33 degrees east of north
from the camp, about eight miles distant, there is a high wooded tent-hill on the range; this
I have named Mount Muller, after my friend the well-known botanist of Victoria. All round about
are rough stony hills with grassy valleys between, having spinifex growing on their sides and
tops. The valley through which the main channel flows is good soil, and covered with grass
from two to four feet high. Towards the north-west the hills appear to be very rugged. Wind
south-east, with a few clouds. Latitude, 15 degrees 10 minutes 40 seconds.

Sunday, 22nd June, Rock Camp, River Strangways. A few heavy clouds about. We are now in the
country discovered by Mr. Gregory. There is a great deal of very good timber in the valley,
which is getting larger and improving as we advance. It is still very thick--so much so, that
the hills cannot be seen until quite close to them. Wind variable. Latitude, 15 degrees 10
minutes 30 seconds.

Monday, 23rd June, Rock Camp, River Strangways. This morning the sky is overcast with light
clouds coming from the south-east. Started at eight o'clock, still following the river, which
winds about very much; its general course 10 degrees east of north. At nine miles the channel
became much smaller, and shortly afterwards separated into numerous small ones, and was apparently
lost to me. I continued a north course, and at twelve miles struck a creek coming from the
south-east; at two miles from this creek found another large one coming from the south-west,
with shea-oak in it, which makes me suppose it is the River Strangways, and that it formed
again and joined this one. At the junction were numerous recent fires of the natives; there
must have been a great many of them, for their fires covered the ground, also shells of the
mussel which they had been eating. Searched for water, and found a little, but not sufficient
for my horses, and too difficult to approach; the course of the river is still to the north.
One mile and a half from the junction found enough water that will do for me at night. As there
seems to be so little water, and this day being exceedingly hot and oppressive, I have camped.
The country travelled over to-day has been of the same description, completely covered with
long grass; the soil rich, and a great many of the cabbage-tree growing about it. Wind variable.
Latitude, 14 degrees 58 minutes 55 seconds.

Tuesday, 24th June, Mussel Camp, River Strangways. With the sun there came up a very thick
and heavy fog which continued for about two hours; it then cleared off and the day became exceedingly
hot. The river, after rounding the hills (where we were camped), ran nearly east for three
miles, meeting there a stony hill which again throws it into a northerly course. I ascended
the hill, but could see nothing distinctly, the fog being so thick. Descended and pursued the
bed, which separated frequently into many channels, and at ten miles it spread into a large
area, and its courses became small with no water in them. The grass above our heads was so
high and thick that the rear-party lost me and could not find the rocks; by cooeing I brought
them to me again. Before I had heard them I had sent Thring back to pick up their tracks and
bring them to the clear ground I was on with the rest of the party, but they arrived before
he made up to them. The scrub is also very thick close to the river. Mr. Kekwick found cane
growing in the bed, and also brought in a specimen of a new water-lily--a most beautiful thing
it is; it is now in Mr. Waterhouse's collection. At twelve miles, finding some water, the horses
being tired in crossing so many small creeks, and working through the scrub and long grass,
I camped at the open ground. The country gone over to-day is again splendidly grassed in many
places, especially near the river; it has very lately been burned by the natives. There are
a great number of them running along the banks; the country now seems to be thickly inhabited.
Towards the east and the north-east the country is in a blaze; there is so much grass the fire
must be dreadful. I hope it will not come near us. The day has been most oppressively hot,
with scarcely a breath of wind. Latitude, 14 degrees 51 minutes 51 seconds.

Wednesday, 25th June, River Strangways. Two of the horses having separated from the others,
and crossing the river, quite hidden in the long grass, it was late before they were found.
Started at nine o'clock; course about 70 degrees east of north, following the channel. I expect,
in two or three miles, to meet with the Roper. At three miles struck a large sheet of deep
clear water, on which were a number of natives, with their lubras and children; they set up
a fearful yelling and squalling, and ran off as fast as they could. Rounded the large sheet
of water and proceeded along it. At a mile, three men were seen following; halted the party,
and went up to them. One was a very old man, one middle-aged, the third a young, stout, well-made
fellow; they seemed to be friendly. Tried to make them understand by signs that I wished to
get across the river; they made signs, by pointing down the river, by placing both hands together,
having the fingers closed, which led me to think I could get across further down. They made
signs for us to be off, and that they were going back again. I complied with their request,
and after bidding each other a friendly good-bye, we followed down the banks of the river,
which I now find is the Roper. At seven miles tried to cross it, but found it to be impossible;
it is now divided into a number of channels, very deep and full of running water. Proceeded
further, and tried it at several places, but with the same result. At twelve miles, camped
close to a steep rocky hill on the north side of the river. Searched all round for a crossing,
but was unable to find one. To the eastward the country is all on fire. The banks of the river
are thickly lined with cabbage-trees, also the cane, bamboo, and other shrubs. Two small turtle-shells
were picked up by the party at the native camp. The country is still of the same fine description.
We are now north of Mr. Gregory's tracks. Latitude, 14 degrees 5 minutes. Wind variable.

Thursday, 26th June, Roper River. As I cannot find a crossing, I shall have to return to my
last camp and try to cross there. Arrived and camped. Day again oppressively hot. Almost immediately
on leaving our camp this morning I observed native tracks on ours close to it. They must have
followed us up last night, although we saw nothing of them. They are not to be trusted: they
will pretend the greatest friendship one moment and spear you the next. They have been following
us to-day, but keeping on the other side of the river and setting fire to the grass as they
go along. I wish it would rain and cause the grass to become green, so as to stop them burning,
as well as to give me some fresh food for the horses, for they now begin to show the want of
it very much; it is so dried up that there is little nourishment in it. Some of them are beginning
to look very poor and are much troubled with worms. My journeys have been very short last week,
in consequence of my being so weak from the effects of scurvy and a severe attack of dysentery,
for I have scarcely been able to endure the motion of horseback for four hours at a time; but
having lately obtained some native cucumbers, I find they are doing me a deal of good, and
hope by next week to be all right again. Wind, south. Latitude, 14 degrees 51 minutes 51 seconds.

Friday, 27th June, West Roper River. Started on a course of 320 degrees, crossing the river,
and at three miles and a half again struck the Roper, running. Followed it up, coming nearly
from the west, but winding about very much, and having many branches, which makes it very difficult
for me to get the turns correctly. It is a splendid river. We have passed many brooks and deep
reaches of water some miles in length, and the country could not be better: it is really magnificent.
At 2.30 I was informed that we were short of a horse. Sent Messrs. Kekwick and Thring back
to see where he was left. We have had to cross so many boggy, nasty places, with deep water
and thick scrub, that he must have been missed at one of these. The general course of the river
to-day has been 280 degrees. Distance, fifteen miles. Messrs. Kekwick and Thring are returned.
They found the horse bogged in a side creek. It was so thick with cabbage-tree that they passed
in searching for him two or three times. They had great difficulty in getting him out, but
at last succeeded, and arrived at the camp before dark. A short time before that, another horse
got into a very deep and rapid channel of the river, the top of the banks projecting so much
that he could not get out, and the gum-trees having fallen across both above and below him,
he was completely fixed. We endeavoured to get him out, but it got so dark that we could not
see him, and the rope breaking that we were pulling him out by, he got his head under water,
and was drowned in a moment. We then found that the cause of the rope breaking was that he
had got one of his hind feet entangled in a sunken tree. It being now so dark we can do no
more to-night, and have left him in the water until daylight. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 14
degrees 47 minutes 26 seconds.

Saturday, 28th June, Roper River. As I shall be short of meat, I remain here to-day to cut
up the horse and dry him. The water of this river is most excellent; the soil is also of the
first description; and the grass, although dry, most abundant, from two to five feet high.
This is certainly the finest country I have seen in Australia. We passed three rocky hills
yesterday, not high, but having grass up to their tops, round which the river winds at their
base, forming large and long reaches of water. On the grassy plains it forms into different
channels, and is thickly timbered with shea-oak, gum, cabbage-trees, and other trees and shrubs.
Wind variable.

Sunday, 29th June, Roper River. We are all enjoying a delightful change of fresh meat from
dry. It is a great treat, and the horse eats remarkably well, although not quite so good as
a bullock. At sundown the meat is not all quite dry, but I think we shall be able to preserve
the greater part of it. The natives are still burning the grass round about us, but they have
not made their appearance either yesterday or to-day. Wind variable.

Monday, 30th June, Roper River. Started at 8.10, course west, following up the river, which
winds about very much from north-west to south, and at last to south-east. When coming close
to where the grass was on fire, finding a good ford, I crossed the party to the north-east
side. At fifteen miles came upon a large reedy swamp through which the river seemed to flow,
and again at twenty miles came upon the river running into the swamp, and coming from the north-north-west.
Although travelling twenty miles we have not made more than ten miles in a straight line; the
general course is west. The country is of the same excellent description. We have passed the
stony rises on the north side of the river, which are covered with grass to their tops. After
crossing the river I ascended another of the same kind. To the south are a few hills scattered
over the grassy plains, with lines of dark-green trees between them, showing that they are
creeks flowing into the river whose junctions we have been crossing to-day; the same to the
south-west, and at west 20" south the distance appears level, with a single peak just visible.
To the north-west seemingly stony hills; to the north the same; to the east I could see nothing,
for the smoke conceals from me the country; it is all on fire. The river is still running very
rapidly, and as this is a different branch from those previously discovered, I have named it
the River Chambers, after my late lamented friend, James Chambers, Esquire, whose zeal in the
cause of Australian exploration is already well known. A short time before sundown a number
of natives were seen approaching the camp. We were immediately prepared for them. I sent Mr.
Kekwick forward to see what their intentions were--friendly or hostile. I immediately followed.
On reaching them they appeared quite friendly. There were three men, four lubras, and a number
of children. One, an old man, presented a very singular appearance--his legs being about four
feet long, and his entire height seven feet, and so remarkably thin that he appeared to be
a perfect shadow. Mr. Kekwick having a fish-hook stuck in his hat, which immediately caught
the tall old fellow's eye, he made signs of its use, and that he would like to possess it.
I told Mr. Kekwick to give it to him, which seemed to please him much. After examining it he
handed it over to a young man, seemingly his son, who was a fat, stout fellow, and who was
laughing nearly all the time. The other was a middle-aged man of the ordinary height. The women
were small, and very ugly.

Tuesday, 1st July, Reedy Swamp, River Chambers. Before sunrise the natives again made their
appearance, sixteen in number, with small spears. Sent Mr. Kekwick to see what they wanted.
On his coming up to them they put two fingers in their mouths, signifying that they wanted
more fish-hooks, but we had no more to spare. They remained looking at us until the horses
were packed and started. After Thring and Frew had brought in the horses, they rode up to where
they were. They (the natives) did not fancy being too near the horses, but having dismounted,
it gave them confidence, and they returned again. Thring opened the lips of one of the horses,
and showed them his teeth, the appearance of which did not suit their taste. Some of them thought
the further off they were from such weapons the better, and ran off the moment they saw them.
Others remained, but kept at a respectful distance. Thring pulled a handful of grass, and it
amused them much to see the horses eating it. After starting they followed us for some miles,
when Mr. Waterhouse, observing a new pigeon, shot it. They, not liking the report of the gun,
went off, and we saw no more of them. Started at 8.20, following the river on a course 30 degrees
east of north. After a mile it gradually came round to the south-east, and was a running stream
in that direction. As that course would take me too much out of my road, I changed my bearing
to north-west, to an opening between the hills. After passing a number of fine ponds, many
of them with water in them, came upon a large creek, having long reaches of water in it, but
not running. It winds about a great deal. Its general course to-day has been west-north-west.
The reedy swamp must be a mass of springs, which causes the Roper to run with such velocity.
A little after one o'clock camped. The journey to-day has been rough, having so many small
creeks to cross, and the day being excessively hot, the horses seem fagged. They have been
covered with sweat since shortly after starting until now, and as some of the drowned horse
is not quite dry, I have halted earlier than I intended. The country gone over to-day is of
the same kind, beautiful soil, covered with grass. We occasionally met with stony hills coming
down to the creek, also well grassed and timbered to their tops. Wind west, with heavy clouds
from the south-east. Latitude, 14 degrees 41 minutes 39 seconds.

Wednesday, 2nd July, West-north-west of Reedy Swamp, River Chambers. Started 7.40, following
the river up until ten o'clock. We kept nearly a north-west course: it then went off to the
south-west; as that would take me too much out of my course, I kept the north-west course,
crossing the saddle of broken hills, amongst which we have now got; and at twelve again met
the river, now coming from the north through the hills, following it still, having plenty of
water. At a very large water hole surprised some natives, who ran off at full speed when the
rear of the party was passing their camp. One stout fellow came running up, armed with spears,
and loaded with fish and bags filled with something to eat. Mr. Kekwick rode towards him. The
native held up a green bough as a flag of truce, and patting his heart with his right hand,
said something which could not be understood, and pointed in the direction we were going. We
then bade him good-bye, and proceeded on our journey. At one o'clock the river suddenly turned
to the east, coming from very rough hills of sandstone and other rocks. At one mile and a half
on that course it was coming from the south of east, which will not do for me. Changed to the
north, and got into some terrible rough stony hills with grassy valleys between, but not a
drop of water. It being now after two o'clock, too late to encounter crossing the table land,
I again changed my course to south-east for the Chambers, and at 5.3 camped at a large water
hole at the foot of a stony rise lined with cabbage (palm) trees. The country although rough
is well grassed to the top of the hills, with an abundance of permanent water in the river.
I am sorry it is coming from the south-east, and have been in hopes it would carry me through
this degree of latitude. To follow it further is only losing time; I shall therefore take to
the hills to-morrow. Frew, on coming along, picked up a small turtle alive. Light wind from
the south-east; heavy clouds from the south-west. Latitude, 14 degrees 32 minutes 30 seconds.

Thursday, 3rd July, River Chambers. Started at 8.10 o'clock, north-west course. At one mile
and a half again struck the river coming from the west-north-west; left it and followed its
north-west course: and at another mile again came upon it with plenty of water. Saw four natives,
who ran off the moment they saw us. Followed the river, the hill coming quite close to it,
very steep and rocky, composed of a hard sandstone, and occasionally a little ironstone. At
nine miles again left the river, finding it was coming too much from the eastward; crossed
the saddle of the two spurs again; came upon a creek, which I think is the river; ran it up
to the west for about a mile, but no appearance of water; left it, and ascended a very rough
rugged hill. In the creek we have just left there is a deal of limestone. Crossed three more
small spurs and small creeks, but not a drop of water. It being now afternoon, and wishing
to see from what direction the river is coming, I changed to north-east, but found that I was
still among the rough hills; I then went east for a short distance, and made the river, now
quite dry, and having a sandy bed. Followed it up, but saw there was no hope of water; turned,
and traced it down to try and find water. After following it for three miles, came upon a fine
permanent hole of water, a short distance from where we left in the former part of the day.
If it would only rain and put some water in the deep dry holes that are in the other creeks
crossed to-day, I should then be enabled to steer a straight line for the Adelaide. It is very
tedious and tiresome having to look for water every day. We have now reached to the top of
one of the tributaries of the Chambers. This is apparently the last water. It seems to take
its rise in a grassy plain to the east of this. The valley through which the creek flows is
well grassed, but the sides and the tops of the hills are spinifex mixed with grass. All the
small valleys are well grassed. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 14 degrees 26 minutes 50 seconds.

Friday, 4th July, Last Water Hole in the Chambers. Started at 8.10, course north-west, following
up the river to its sources. At four miles ascended a rise, which was very rough, composed
of sandstone, ironstone, and limestone, with ironstone gravel on the top. Descended on the
other side, and at about five miles came upon a nice running stream, but very rough and stony
round about it. After crossing several stony rises, in which we had some difficulty in getting
our horses over, arrived at a nice broad valley with a creek running through it, course north-west.
At a mile it received a large tributary from the east of north, and the bed seems sandy; melaleuca
and gum-trees in it; also the bean-tree. The valley is covered with grass from two to four
feet high. There is a ridge of rough sandy stone hills, with occasional ironstone on each side,
from the direction it was at first taken. I thought I was fortunate in meeting with one of
the sources of the Alligator or Adelaide River. After following it for five miles, sometimes
going west and south, it went through a stony gorge, and seemed to run to the south, which
is a great disappointment. I ascended one of the hills to view the country, but could see very
little, it being so thickly wooded. To the north is the appearance of a range running to the
east and west that I must endeavour to cross to-morrow if I do not find another creek running
to the north-west. There is one benefit I shall derive from following down this creek a day;
it will enable me to round the very rough sandstone range that runs on the north side of the
creek. It is so rough that I could not take the horses over it. Camped at the gorge of this
creek, which I suppose, from the course it is now taking, to be another tributary of the Chambers.
The gorge is impassable for horses. It has a very picturesque appearance; immense masses of
rock--some thousands of tons in weight--which had fallen from the top of the cliff into the
bed of the creek. Mr. Kekwick found a number of new plants, among them a fine climbing fern.
Light winds, east. Plenty of permanent water in the creek. Latitude, 14 degrees 25 minutes
8 seconds.

Saturday, 5th July, Gorge on another West Branch of the River Chambers. Started 8.15; course,
5 degrees west of north. After travelling two miles over stony rises we ascended a low table
land with coarse grass and a little spinifex; at six miles came up to a high stony tent-hill,
which I ascended and named Mount Shillinglaw. All round are stony hills and grassy valleys--dip
of the country seemingly to the south. There is apparently a continuous range in the distance
to the north-west, the Chambers range. Changed my course to 325 degrees, and at four miles
struck another large branch coming from the north-east, and running apparently south--plenty
of water in it. This I named the Waterhouse, in honour of Mr. H.W. Waterhouse, naturalist to
the expedition. Some of the horses are become so lame on account of the stones they will not
be able to travel another day. I have camped early to have them shod, for on Monday I intend
taking a north-west course to strike the source of the Adelaide. The country on the last course
is again of the very best description and well grassed. The hills are stony, but abound with
grass; they are composed of sandstone, ironstone, and occasionally a little limestone; the
trees are the same as those on the Roper. Wind, south-east. Latitude, 14 degrees 18 minutes
30 seconds.

Sunday, 6th July, The Waterhouse River. Day again very hot. There is another branch a short
distance off, which seems to come from the north-west; I shall follow it to-morrow if it continues
the same course. I think these creeks we are now crossing must be the sources of the Adelaide
flowing towards the dry river seen by Mr. Gregory running towards the north-west. Wind light;
sky cloudy.

Monday, 7th July, Waterhouse River. Started at 7.55; course, north-west. At four miles the
creek was coming from the west, north-east, and east; I therefore left it, crossed two low
stony rises, and again struck another creek coming from the north-east, with plenty of water;
followed it for a short distance to the west, found it so boggy and the body of water so large
that I could not get the party round the stony hills. Returned about half a mile, and crossed
the stony rise, and again struck it. At eight miles came upon a number of springs coming from
the stony rises. Ascended one of the rises, which are not high, and found myself on a sandy
table land, which continued for six miles, having coarse grass and spinifex growing on it.
Towards the last two miles it again became well grassed. The timber is stringy-bark, some splendid
trees; amongst them gums and a number of pines, also very fine. The cabbage palm still growing
in the creeks in great numbers, some of them very tall, with several branches on the top. The
first eight miles was again over a splendid country, and the last three of the same description.
A stony hill being in my course, I proceeded to the top of it, from which I had a good view
of the country before me. This hill I named after Lieutenant Helpman. At 10 degrees south of
west are two remarkable isolated table hills, Mount Levi and Mount Watts, beyond which is the
Chambers range to the north-west; my view in other directions is obstructed by other hills,
but to the west about one mile and a half is seemingly a creek, to which I shall go, and if
there is water I shall camp. Proceeded and found it a fine creek with plenty of water; followed
it about one mile to the north-west, when it became dry. There it seems to come from the south.
There are a great number of cabbage palms on its banks. I hope it will soon come round to the
north-west and continue on that course. Light winds, variable. Latitude, 14 degrees 9 minutes
31 seconds.

Tuesday, 8th July, Water Creek in Stony Rises. Started at 7.40 a.m., course north-west; followed
the creek a little way, but found it was running too much to the west of my course; left it
and proceeded to the north-west, crossing some stony rises, now composed of granite and ironstone,
with occasionally some hard sandstone. Crossing three small creeks running to the west, at
six miles came upon a large one with broad and long sheets of permanent water coming from the
north-north-east, and apparently running to the south-west. This I have named the Fanny, in
honour of Miss Fanny Chambers, eldest daughter of John Chambers, Esquire. In a small tree on
this creek the skull of a very young alligator was found by Mr. Auld. The trees in this creek
are melaleuca and gum, with some others. Proceeded across the creek, still going north-west;
ascended two stony rises, and got upon low table land with spinifex and grass, passing two
stony hills, one on each side of my course. At eighteen miles struck the head of a small creek
flowing nearly on my course; followed it down in search of water, now through a basaltic country.
At two miles came upon another large creek, having a running stream to the south of west, and
coming from the north of east. Timber, melaleuca, palm, and gum, with some of other descriptions.
This I have named the Katherine, in honour of the second daughter of James Chambers, Esquire.
The country gone over to-day, although there is a mile or two of light sandy soil, is good
for pasturage purposes; in the valley it is of the finest description. Light winds, variable.
Latitude, 13 degrees 58 minutes 30 seconds.

Wednesday, 9th July, The Katherine. Started at five minutes to eight o'clock, crossing the
Katherine, and proceeded on a north-west course over a basaltic country, splendidly grassed.
At five miles I ascended a high hill, which I named Mount Stow, but was disappointed in the
view. West-north-west course, over a great number of rises thickly timbered with gum. At 20
degrees north of west is a high bluff point of the range; the country on that bearing does
not seem to be so rough. No more visible but the range to the west and the hill between. Descended,
and changed my course to the bluff point. At one mile and a half crossed a creek with water
in it, coming from the north-east, and running to the south-west. At three miles further arrived
at the bluff. The basaltic country has now suddenly changed to slate, limestone, sandstone,
and a hard white stone. Crossed three stony rises, and got upon a white sandy rise, with large
stringy-bark trees growing upon it; and there seemingly being a creek at the foot of it, from
the number of green gums and palm-trees, I went down to it, and found it to be springy ground,
now quite dry, although the grass was quite green. Proceeded on the westerly course, expecting
to meet with a creek; found none, but large springs coming from sandy rises. Having found water
at thirteen miles, and being so very unwell that I cannot proceed, I have been compelled to
camp. There is an immense quantity of water coming from these springs; the soil round them
is of the best deep black alluvial. About a mile to the west is a strong stream running to
the south-west from them. I have called them Kekwick Springs, in honour of my chief officer.
Wind light and variable. Latitude, 13 degrees 54 minutes 12 seconds.

