Agriculture was the chief occupation of the Roman people. "When our forefathers," said an ancient
writer, "would praise a worthy man, they praised him as a good farmer and a good landlord;
and they believed that an praise could go no further." [10] Roman farmers raised large crops
of grain--the staple product of ancient Italy. Cattle-breeding, also, must have been an important
pursuit, since in early times prices were estimated in oxen and sheep. [11]

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

In such a community of peasants no great inequalities of wealth existed. Few citizens were
very rich; few were very poor. The members of each household made their own clothing from flax
or wool, and fashioned out of wood and clay what utensils were needed for their simple life.
For a long time the Romans had no coined money whatever. When copper came into use as currency,
it passed from hand to hand in shapeless lumps that required frequent weighing. It was not
until the fourth century that a regular coinage began. [12] This use of copper as money indicates
that gold and silver were rare among the Romans, and luxury almost unknown.

MORAL CHARACTER OF THE EARLY ROMANS

Hard-working, god-fearing peasants are likely to lead clean and sober lives. This was certainly
true of the early Romans. They were a manly breed, abstemious in food and drink, iron-willed,
vigorous, and strong. Deep down in the Roman's heart was the proud conviction that Rome should
rule over all her neighbors. For this he freely shed his blood; for this he bore hardship,
however severe, without complaint. Before everything else, he was a dutiful citizen and a true
patriot. Such were the sturdy men who on their farms in Latium formed the backbone of the Roman
state. Their character has set its mark on history for all time.

THE ROMAN FAMILY

The family formed the unit of Roman society. Its most marked feature was the unlimited authority
of the father. In his house he reigned an absolute king. His wife had no legal rights: he could
sell her into slavery or divorce her at will. Nevertheless, no ancient people honored women
more highly than the Romans. A Roman wife was the mistress of the home, as her husband was
its master. Though her education was not carried far, we often find the Roman matron taking
a lively interest in affairs of state, and aiding her husband both in politics and business.
It was the women, as well as the men, who helped to make Rome great among the nations. Over
his unmarried daughters and his sons, the Roman father ruled as supreme as over his wife. He
brought up his children to be sober, silent, modest in their bearing, and, above all, obedient.
Their misdeeds he might punish with penalties as severe as banishment, slavery, or death. As
head of the family he could claim all their earnings; everything they had was his. The father's
great authority ceased only with his death. Then his sons, in turn, became lords over their
families.

51. ROMAN RELIGION

WORSHIP OF ANCESTORS

The Romans, like the ancient Greeks and the modern Chinese, paid special veneration to the
souls of the dead. These were known by the flattering name of manes, the "pure" or "good ones."
The Romans always regarded the manes as members of the household to which they had belonged
on earth. The living and the dead were thus bound together by the closest ties. The idea of
the family triumphed even over the grave.

THE HOUSEHOLD DEITIES

The ancient Roman house had only one large room, the atrium, where all members of the family
lived together. It was entered by a single door, which was sacred to the god Janus. On the
hearth, opposite the doorway, the housewife prepared the meals. The fire that ever blazed upon
it gave warmth and nourishment to the inmates. Here dwelt Vesta, the spirit of the kindling
flame. The cupboard where the food was kept came under the charge of the Penates, who blessed
the family store. The house as a whole had its protecting spirits, called Lares.

WORSHIP OF THE HOUSEHOLD DEITIES

The daily worship of these deities took place at the family meal. The table would be placed
at the side of the hearth, and when the father and his family sat down to it, a little food
would be thrown into the flames and a portion of wine poured out, as an offering to the gods.
The images of the Lares and Penates would also be fetched from the shrine and placed on the
table in token of their presence at the meal. This religion of the family lasted with little
change throughout the entire period of Roman history.

JANUS AND VESTA

The early Roman state was only an enlarged family, and hence the religion of the state was
modeled after that of the family. Some of the divinities, such as Janus and Vesta, were taken
over with little change from the domestic worship. The entrance to the Forum formed a shrine
of Janus, [13] which Numa himself was said to have built. The door, or gateway, stood open
in time of war, but shut when Rome was at peace. At the south end of the Forum stood the round
temple of Vesta, containing the sacred hearth of the city. Here Vesta was served by six virgins
of free birth, whose duty it was to keep the fire always blazing on the altar. If by accident
the fire went out, it must be relighted from a "pure flame," either by striking a spark with
flint or by rubbing together two dry sticks. Such methods of kindling fire were those familiar
to the prehistoric Romans.

JUPITER AND MARS

The Romans worshiped various gods connected with their lives as shepherds, farmers, and warriors.
The chief divinity was Jupiter, who ruled the heavens and sent rain and sunshine to nourish
the crops. The war god Mars reflected the military character of the Romans. His sacred animal
was the fierce, cruel wolf, his symbols were spears and shields; his altar was the Campus Martius
(Field of Mars) outside the city walls, where the army assembled in battle array. March, the
first month of the old Roman year, was named in his honor. Some other gods were borrowed from
the Greeks, together with many of the beautiful Greek myths.

DIVINATION

The Romans took many precautions, before beginning any enterprise, to find out what was the
will of the gods and how their favor might first be gained. They did not have oracles, but
they paid much attention to omens of all sorts. A sudden flash of lightning, an eclipse of
the sun, a blazing comet, or an earthquake shock was an omen which awakened superstitious fear.
It indicated the disapproval of the gods. From the Etruscans the Romans learned to divine the
future by examining the entrails of animal victims. They also borrowed from their northern
neighbors the practice of looking for signs in the number, flight, and action of birds. To
consult such signs was called "taking the auspices." [14]

PRIESTHOODS

Roman priests, who conducted the state religion, did not form a separate class, as in some
Oriental countries. They were chosen, like other magistrates, from the general body of citizens.
A board, or "college," of six priests had charge of the public auspices. Another board, that
of the pontiffs, regulated the calendar, kept the public annals, and regulated weights and
measures. They were experts in all matters of religious ceremonial and hence were very important
officials. [15]

IMPORTANCE OF THE STATE RELIGION

This old Roman faith was something very different from what we understand by religion. It had
little direct influence on morality. It did not promise rewards or threaten punishments in
a future world. Roman religion busied itself with the everyday life of man. Just as the household
was bound together by the tie of common worship, so all the citizens were united in a common
reverence for the deities which guarded the state. The religion of Rome made and held together
a nation.

52. THE ROMAN CITY-STATE

EARLY ROMAN GOVERNMENT

We find in early Rome, as in Homeric Greece, [16] a city-state with its king, council, and
assembly. The king was the father of his people, having over them the same absolute authority
that the house-father held within the family. The king was assisted by a council of elders,
or Senate (Latin senes, "old men"). Its members were chosen by the king and held office for
life. The most influential heads of families belonged to the Senate. The common people at first
took little part in the government, for it was only on rare occasions that the king summoned
them to deliberate with him in an assembly.

THE REPUBLICAN CONSULS

Toward the close of the sixth century, as we have already learned, [17] the ancient monarchy
disappeared from Rome. In place of the lifelong king two magistrates, named consuls, were elected
every year. Each consul had to share his honor and authority with a colleague who enjoyed the
same power as himself. Unless both agreed, there could be no action. Like the Spartan kings,
[18] the consuls served as checks, the one on the other. Neither could safely use his position
to aim at unlawful rule.

THE DICTATOR

This divided power of the consuls might work very well in times of peace. During dangerous
wars or insurrections it was likely to prove disastrous. A remedy was found in the temporary
revival of the old kingship under a new name. When occasion required, one of the consuls, on
the advice of the Senate, appointed a dictator. The consuls then gave up their authority and
the people put their property and lives entirely at the dictator's disposal. During his term
of office, which could not exceed six months, the state was under martial law. Throughout Roman
history there were many occasions when a dictatorship was created to meet a sudden emergency.

PATRICIANS AND PLEBEIANS

The Roman state, during the regal age, seems to have been divided between an aristocracy and
a commons. The nobles were called patricians, [19] and the common people were known as plebeians.
[20] The patricians occupied a privileged position, since they alone sat in the Senate and
served as priests, judges, and magistrates. In fact, they controlled society, and the common
people found themselves excluded from much of the religious, legal, and political life of the
Roman city. Under these circumstances it was natural for the plebeians to agitate against the
patrician monopoly of government. The struggle between the two orders of society lasted about
two centuries.

THE TRIBUNES

A few years after the establishment of the republic the plebeians compelled the patricians
to allow them to have officers of their own, called tribunes, as a means of protection. There
were ten tribunes, elected annually by the plebeians. Any tribune could veto, that is, forbid,
the act of a magistrate which seemed to bear harshly on a citizen. To make sure that a tribune's
orders would be respected, his person was made sacred and a solemn curse was pronounced upon
the man who injured him or interrupted him in the performance of his duties. The tribune's
authority, however, extended only within the city and a mile beyond its walls. He was quite
powerless against the consul in the field.

THE TWELVE TABLES, 449 B.C.

We next find the plebeians struggling for equality before the law. Just as in ancient Athens,
[21] the early Roman laws had never been written down or published. About half a century after
the plebeians had obtained the tribunes, they forced the patricians to give them written laws.
A board of ten men, known as decemvirs, was appointed to frame a legal code, binding equally
on both patricians and plebeians. The story goes that this commission studied the legislation
of the Greek states of southern Italy, and even went to Athens to examine some of Solon's laws
which were still in force. The laws framed by the decemvirs were engraved on twelve bronze
tablets and set up in the Forum. A few sentences from this famous code have come down to us
in rude, unpolished Latin. They mark the beginning of what was to be Rome's greatest gift to
civilization--her legal system.

FINAL TRIUMPH OF THE PLEBEIANS

The hardest task of the plebeians was to secure the right of holding the great offices of state.
Eventually, however, they gained entrance to Senate and became eligible to the consulship and
other magistracies and to the priesthoods. By the middle of the third century the plebeians
and patricians, equal before the law and with equal privileges, formed one compact body of
citizens in the Roman state.

ROME AS A REPUBLIC

The Roman state called itself a republic--respublica--"a thing of the people." Roman citizens
made the laws and elected public officers. Though the people in their gatherings had now become
supreme, their power was really much limited by the fact that very little discussion of a proposed
measure was allowed. This formed a striking contrast to the vigorous debating which went on
in the Athenian Assembly. [22] Roman citizens could not frame, criticize, or amend public measures;
they could only vote "yes" or "no" to proposals made to them by a magistrate.

MAGISTRATES

Rome had many magistrates. Besides the two consuls and an occasional dictator there were the
ten tribunes, the praetors, who served as judges, and the quaestors, or keepers of the treasury.
The two censors were also very important officers. It was their business to make an enumeration
or census of the citizens and to assess property for taxation. The censors almost always were
reverend seniors who had held the consulship and enjoyed a reputation for justice and wisdom.
Their office grew steadily in importance, especially after the censors began to exercise an
oversight of the private life of the Romans. They could expel a senator from his seat for immorality
and could deprive any citizen of his vote. The word "censorious," meaning faultfinding, is
derived from the name of these ancient officials.

MEMBERSHIP OF THE SENATE

The authority of the magistrates was much limited by the Senate. This body contained about
three hundred members, who held their seats generally for life. When vacancies occurred, they
were filled, as a rule, by those who had previously held one or more of the higher magistracies.
There sat in the Senate every man who, as statesman, general, or diplomatist, had served his
country well.

POWERS EXERCISED BY THE SENATE

The Senate furnished an admirable school for debate. Any senator could speak as long and as
often as he chose. The opportunities for discussion were numerous, for all weighty matters
came before this august assemblage. It managed finances and public works. It looked after the
state religion. It declared and conducted war, received ambassadors from foreign countries,
made alliances, and administered conquered territories. The Senate formed the real governing
body of the republic.

"AN ASSEMBLY OF KINGS"

The Senate proved not unworthy of its high position. For two centuries, while Rome was winning
dominion over Italy and the Mediterranean, that body held the wisest and noblest Romans of
the time. To these men office meant a public trust--an opportunity to serve their country with
distinction and honor. The Senate, in its best days, was a splendid example of the foresight,
energy, and wisdom of republican Rome. An admiring foreigner called it "an assembly of kings." [23]

53. EXPANSION OF ROME OVER ITALY, 509(?)-264 B.C.

ROME SUPREME IN LATIUM, 338 B.C.

The first centuries of the republic were filled with constant warfare. The Romans needed all
their skill, bravery, and patriotism to keep back the Etruscans on the north, and the wild
tribes of the Apennines. About 390 B.C. the state was brought near to destruction by an invasion
of the Gauls. [24] These barbarians, whose huge bulk and enormous weapons struck terror to
the hearts of their adversaries, poured through the Alpine passes and ravaged far and wide.
At the river Allia, only a few miles from Rome, they annihilated a Roman army and then captured
and burned the city itself. But the Gallic tide receded as swiftly as it had come, and Rome
rose from her ashes mightier than ever. Half a century after the Gallic invasion she was able
to subdue her former allies, the Latins, and to destroy their league. The Latin War, as it
is called, ended in 338 B.C., the year of the fateful battle of Chaeronea in Greece. [25] By
this time Rome ruled in Latium and southern Etruria and had begun to extend her sway over Campania.
There remained only one Italian people to contest with her the supremacy of the peninsula--the
Samnites.

ROME SUPREME IN CENTRAL ITLAY, 290 B.C.

The Samnites were the most vigorous and warlike race of central Italy. While the Romans were
winning their way in Latium, the Samnites were also entering on a career of conquest. They
coveted the fertile Campanian plain with its luxurious cities, Cumae and Neapolis, which the
Greeks had founded. The Romans had also fixed their eyes on the same region, and so a contest
between the two peoples became inevitable. In numbers, courage, and military skill Romans and
Samnites were well matched. Nearly half a century of hard fighting was required before Rome
gained the upper hand. The close of the Samnite wars found Rome supreme in central Italy. Her
authority was now recognized from the upper Apennines to the foot of the peninsula.

ROME SUPREME IN SOUTHERN ITALY, 264 B.C.

The wealthy cities of southern Italy offered a tempting prize to Roman greed. Before long many
of them received Roman garrisons and accepted the rule of the great Latin republic. Tarentum,
[26] however, the most important of the Greek colonies, held jealously to her independence.
Unable single-handed to face the Romans, Tarentum turned to Greece for aid. She called on Pyrrhus,
king of Epirus, the finest soldier of his age. Pyrrhus led twenty-five thousand mercenary soldiers
into Italy, an army almost as large as Alexander's. The Romans could not break the bristling
ranks of the Greek phalanx, and they shrank back in terror before the huge war elephants which
Pyrrhus had brought with him. The invader won the first battle, but lost many of his best troops.
He then offered peace on condition that the Romans should give up their possessions in southern
Italy. The Senate returned the proud reply that Rome would not treat with the enemy while he
stood on Italian soil. A second battle was so bitterly contested that Pyrrhus declared, "Another
such victory, and I am lost." [27] Weary of the struggle, Pyrrhus now crossed over to Sicily
to aid his countrymen against the Carthaginians. The rapid progress of the Roman arms called
him back, only to meet a severe defeat. Pyrrhus then withdrew in disgust to Greece; Tarentum
fell; and Rome established her rule over southern Italy.

POLITICAL SITUATION IN 264 B.C.

The triumph over Pyrrhus and the conquest of Magna Graecia mark a decisive moment in the history
of Rome. Had Pyrrhus won Italy, as well as Asia and Egypt, might have become a Greek land,
ruled by Hellenistic kings. Now it was clear that Rome, having met the invader so bravely,
was to remain supreme in the Italian peninsula. She was the undisputed mistress of Italy from
the strait of Messina northward to the Arnus and the Rubicon. Etruscans, Latins, Samnites,
and Greeks acknowledged her sway. The central city of the peninsula had become the center of
a united Italy. [28]

54. ITALY UNDER ROMAN RULE

THE ROMAN CITIZENS

Italy did not form a single state under Roman rule. About one-third of Italy composed the strictly
Roman territory occupied by Roman citizens. Since ancient Rome knew nothing of the great principle
of representative government, [29] it was necessary that citizens who wished to vote or to
stand for office should visit in person the capital city. Few men, of course, would journey
many miles to Rome in order to exercise their political rights. The elections, moreover, were
not all held on one day, as with us, but consuls, praetors, and other magistrates were chosen
on different days, while meetings of the assemblies might be held at any time of the year.
A country peasant who really tried to fulfill his duties as a citizen would have had little
time for anything else. In practice, therefore, the city populace at Rome had the controlling
voice in ordinary legislation. The Romans were never able to remedy this grave defect in their
political system. We shall see later what evils government without representation brought in
its train.

THE ITALIANS

Over against this body of Roman citizens were the Italian peoples. Rome was not yet ready to
grant them citizenship, but she did not treat them as complete subjects. The Italians were
called the "allies and friends" of the Roman people. They lost the right of declaring war on
one another, of making treaties, and of coining money. Rome otherwise allowed them to govern
themselves, never calling on them for tribute and only requiring that they should furnish soldiers
for the Roman army in time of war. These allies occupied a large part of the Italian peninsula.

THE LATIN COLONIES

The Romans very early began to establish what were called Latin colonies [30] in various parts
of Italy. The colonists were usually veteran soldiers or poor plebeians colonies who wanted
farms of their own. When the list of colonists was made up, they all marched forth in military
array to lake possession of their new homes and build their city. The Latin colonies were really
offshoots of Rome and hence were always faithful to her interests. Scattered everywhere in
Italy they formed so many permanent camps or garrisons to keep the conquered peoples in subjection.
At the same time they helped mightily in spreading the Latin language, law, and civilization
throughout the peninsula.

ROMAN ROADS

All the colonies were united with one another and with Rome by an extensive system of roads.
The first great road, called the Appian Way, was made during the period of the Samnite wars.
It united the city of Rome with Capua and secured the hold of Rome on Campania. The Appian
Way was afterwards carried across the Apennines to Brundisium on the Adriatic, whence travelers
embarked for the coast of Greece. Other trunk lines were soon built in Italy, and from them
a network of smaller highways was extended to every part of the peninsula.

USES OF ROMAN ROADS

Roman roads had a military origin. Like the old Persian roads [31] they were intended to facilitate
the rapid dispatch of troops, supplies, and official messages into every corner of Italy. Hence
the roads ran, as much as possible, in straight lines and on easy grades. Nothing was allowed
to obstruct their course. Engineers cut through or tunneled the hills, bridged rivers and gorges,
and spanned low, swampy lands with viaducts of stone. So carefully were these roads constructed
that some stretches of them are still in good condition. These magnificent highways were free
to the public. They naturally became avenues of trade and travel and so served to bring the
Italian peoples into close touch with Rome.

ROMANIZATION OF ITALY

Rome thus began in Italy that wonderful process of Romanization which she was to extend later
to Spain, Gaul, and Britain. She began to make, the Italian peoples like herself in blood,
speech, customs, and manners. More and more the Italians, under Rome's leadership, came to
look upon themselves as one people--the people who wore the gown, or toga, as contrasted with
the barbarous and trousers-wearing Gauls.

55. THE ROMAN ARMY

THE LEGION

While the Romans were conquering Italy, they were making many improvements in their army. All
citizens between the ages of seventeen and forty-six were liable to active service. These men
were mainly landowners--hardy, intelligent peasants--who knew how to fight and how to obey
orders. An army in the field consisted of one or more legions. A legion included about three
thousand heavy-armed footmen, twelve hundred light infantry, and three hundred horsemen. After
the conquest of Italy the states allied with Rome had to furnish soldiers, chiefly archers
and cavalry. These auxiliaries, as they were called, were at least as numerous as legionaries.
The Romans, in carrying on war, employed not only their citizens but also their subjects.

METHOD OF FIGHTING

The legion offered a sharp contrast to the unwieldy phalanx. [32] Roman soldiers usually fought
in an open order, with the heavy-armed infantry arranged in three lines: first, the younger
men; next, the more experienced warriors; and lastly the veterans. A battle began with skirmishing
by the light troops, which moved to the front and discharged their darts to harass the enemy.
The companies of the first line next flung their javelins at a distance of from ten to twenty
paces and then, wielding their terrible short swords, came at once to close quarters with the
foe. It was like a volley of musketry followed by a fierce bayonet charge. If the attack proved
unsuccessful, the wearied soldiers withdrew to the rear through the gaps in the line behind.
The second line now marched forward to the attack; if it was repulsed, there was still the
third line of steady veterans for the last and decisive blow.

FORTIFIED CAMPS

A very remarkable part of the Roman military system consisted in the use of fortified camps.
Every time the army halted, if only for a single night, the legionaries intrenched themselves
within a square inclosure. It was protected by a ditch, an earthen mound, and a palisade of
stakes. This camp formed a little city with its streets, its four gates, a forum, and the headquarters
of the general. Behind the walls of such a fortress an army was always at liberty to accept
or decline a battle. As a proverb said, the Romans often conquered by "sitting still."

DISCIPLINE: REWARDS AND HONORS

Roman soldiers lived under the strictest discipline. To their general they owed absolute, unquestioning
obedience. He could condemn them to death without trial. The sentinel who slept on his watch,
the legionary who disobeyed an order or threw away his arms on the field of battle, might be
scourged with rods and then beheaded. The men were encouraged to deeds of valor by various
marks of distinction, which the general presented to them in the presence of the entire army.
The highest reward was the civic crown of oak leaves, granted to one who had saved the life
of a fellow-soldier on the battle field.

THE TRIUMPH

The state sometimes bestowed on a victorious general the honor of a triumph. This was a grand
parade and procession in the city of Rome. First came the magistrates and senators, wagons
laden with booty, and captives in chains. Then followed the conqueror himself, clad in a gorgeous
robe and riding in a four-horse chariot. Behind him marched the soldiers, who sang a triumphal
hymn. The long procession passed through the streets to the Forum and mounted the Capitoline
Hill. There the general laid his laurel crown upon the knees of the statue of Jupiter, as a
thank offering for victory. Meanwhile, the captives who had just appeared in the procession
were strangled in the underground prison of the Capitol. It was a day of mingled joy and tragedy.

MILITARY GENIUS OF THE ROMANS

The Romans, it has been said, were sometimes vanquished in battle, but they were always victorious
in war. With the short swords of her disciplined soldiers, her flexible legion, and her fortified
camps, Rome won dominion in Italy and began the conquest of the world.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate the Roman dominions in 509 B.C.; in 338 B.C.; in 264 B.C.

2. Make a list of the Roman magistrates mentioned in this chapter, and of the powers exercised
by each.

3. Give the meaning of our English words "patrician," "plebeian," "censor," "dictator," "tribune,"
"augury," "auspices," and "veto."

4. Connect the proper events with the following dates: 753 B.C.; 509 B.C.; and 338 B.C.

5. Why have Sicily, Sardinia, and Corsica been called the "suburbs of Italy"?

6. "Italy and Greece may be described as standing back to back to each other." Explain this
statement.

7. What is the origin of our names of the two months, January and March?

8. Compare the early Roman with the early Greek religion as to (a) likenesses; (b) differences.

9. Why have the consuls been called "joint kings for one year"?

10. What do you understand by "martial law"? Under what circumstances is it sometimes declared
in the United States?

11. Compare the position of the Roman patricians with that of the Athenian nobles before the
legislation of Draco and Solon.

12. What officers in American cities perform some of the duties of the censors, praetors, and
aediles?

13. In the Roman and Spartan constitutions contrast: (a) consuls and kings; (b) censors and
ephors; and (c) the two senates.

14. Compare the Roman Senate and the Senate of the United States as to size, term of office
of members, conditions of membership, procedure, functions, and importance.

15. How far can the phrase, "government of the people, by the people, for the people," be applied
to the Roman Republic at this period?

16. What conditions made it easy for the Romans to conquer Magna Graecia and difficult for
them to subdue the Samnites?

17. What is a "Pyrrhic victory"?

18. Compare the nature of Roman rule over Italy with that of Athens over the Delian League.

19. Trace on the map, page 156, the Appian and Flaminian ways, noting some of the cities along
the routes and the terminal points of each road.

20. Explain: "all roads lead to Rome."

21. Contrast the legion and the phalanx as to arrangement, armament, and method of fighting.

22. "Rome seems greater than her greatest men."

[2] See page 67.

[3] See page 28.

[4] See pages 53, 61.

[5] Naples, the ancient Neapolis, was a colony of Cumae. See page 89.

[6] See the map facing page 50.

[7] The Romans believed that their city was founded in 753 B.C., from which year all Roman
dates were reckoned.

[8] See the map, page 293.

[9] See page 146.

[10] Cato, De agricultura, I.

[11] See page 6.

[12] See the illustration, page 7.

[13] Since a door (janua) had two sides, Janus, the door god, was represented with the curious
double face which appears on Roman coins (See the plate facing page 134) The month of January
in the Julian calendar was named for him.

[14] Latin auspicium, from auspex, a bird seer.

[15] The title of the president of the pontiffs, Pontifex Maximus (Supreme Pontiff), is still
that of the pope. See page 364.

[16] See page 81.

[17] See page 143.

[18] See page 83.

[19] From the Latin patres, "fathers."

[20] Latin plebs, "the crowd."

[21] See page 85.

[22] See page 105.

[23] The four letters inscribed on Roman military standards indicate the important place held
by the Senate. They are S. P. Q. R., standing for Senatus Populusque Romanus, "The Senate and
the People of Rome."

[24] See page 129.

[25] See page 118.

[26] See page 89.

[27] Plutarch, Pyrrhus, 21.

[28] It should be noticed, however, that as yet Rome controlled only the central and southern
parts of what is the modern kingdom of Italy. Two large divisions of that kingdom, which every
Italian now regards as essential to its unity, were in other hands--the Po valley and the island
of Sicily.

[29] See page 106.

[30] Latin colonists did not have the right of voting in the assemblies at Rome. This privilege
was enjoyed, however, by members of the "Roman" colonies, which were planted mainly along the
coast. See the map, page 156.

[31] See page 40.

[32] See page 116.

CHAPTER VIII

THE GREAT AGE OF THE ROMAN REPUBLIC, 264-31 B.C. [1]

56. THE RIVALS: ROME AND CARTHAGE, 264-218 B.C.

THE PUNIC WARS

The conquest of Italy made Rome one of the five leading states of the Mediterranean world.
In the East there were the kingdoms of Macedonia, Syria, and Egypt, which had inherited the
dominions of Alexander the Great. In the West there were Carthage and Rome, once in friendly
alliance, but now to become the bitterest foes. Rome had scarcely reached the headship of united
Italy before she was involved in a life-and-death struggle with this rival power. The three
wars between them are known as the Punic wars; they are the most famous contests that ancient
history records; and they ended in the complete destruction of Carthage.

FOUNDATION OF CARTHAGE

More than a century before the traditional date at which Rome rose upon her seven hills, Phoenician
colonists laid the foundations of a second Tyre. The new city occupied an admirable site, for
it bordered on rich farming land and had the largest harbor of the north African coast. A position
at the junction of the eastern and western basins of the Mediterranean gave it unsurpassed
opportunities for trade. At the same time Carthage was far enough away to be out of the reach
of Persian or Macedonian conquerors.

COMMERCIAL EMPIRE OF CARTHAGE

By the middle of the third century B.C. the Carthaginians had formed an imposing commercial
empire. Their African dominions included the strip of coast from Cyrene westward to the strait
of Gibraltar. Their colonies covered the shores of Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, and southern
Spain. The western half of the Mediterranean had become a Carthaginian lake.

CARTHAGINIAN CIVILIZATION

Before the opening of the Punic wars Carthage had been much enlarged by emigrants from Tyre,
after the capture of that city by Alexander. [2] The Phoenician colonists kept their own language,
customs, and beliefs and did not mingle with the native African peoples. Carthage in form was
a republic, but the real power lay in the hands of one hundred men, selected from the great
merchant families. It was a government by capitalists who cared very little for the welfare
of the poor freemen and slaves over whom they ruled. The wealth of Carthage enabled her to
raise huge armies of mercenary soldiers and to build warships which in size, number, and equipment
surpassed those of any other Mediterranean state. Mistress of a wide realm, strong both by
land and sea, Carthage was now to prove herself Rome's most dangerous foe.

ORIGIN OF THE FIRST PUNIC WAR

The First Punic War was a contest for Sicily. The Carthaginians aimed to establish their rule
over that island, which from its situation seems to belong almost as much to Africa as to Italy.
But Rome, having become supreme in Italy, also cast envious eyes on Sicily. She believed, too,
that the Carthaginians, if they should conquer Sicily, would sooner or later invade southern
Italy. The fear for her possessions, as well as the desire to gain new ones, led Rome to fling
down the gage of battle.

COURSE AND RESULTS OF THE WAR, 264-241 B.C.

The contest between the two rival states began in 264 B.C. and lasted nearly twenty-four years.
The Romans overran Sicily and even made an unsuccessful invasion of Africa, but the main struggle
was on the sea. Here at first the Romans were at a disadvantage, for they had no ships as large
and powerful as those of the Carthaginians. With characteristic energy, however, they built
several great war fleets and finally won a complete victory over the enemy. The treaty of peace
provided that Carthage should abandon Sicily, return all prisoners without ransom, and pay
a heavy indemnity.

THE INTERVAL OF PREPARATION, 241-218 B.C.

Carthage, though beaten, had not been humbled. She had lost Sicily and the commercial monopoly
of the Mediterranean. But she was not ready to abandon all hope of recovering her former supremacy.
The peace amounted to no more than an armed truce. Both parties were well aware that the real
conflict was yet to come. The war, however, was delayed for nearly a quarter of a century.
During this interval Rome strengthened her military position by seizing the islands of Sardinia
and Corsica from Carthage and by conquering the Gauls in the Po valley. The Carthaginians,
meanwhile, began to create a new empire in Spain, whose silver mines would supply fresh means
for another contest and whose hardy tribes would furnish soldiers as good as the Roman legionaries.

57. HANNIBAL AND THE GREAT PUNIC WAR, 218-201 B.C.

BEGINNING OF THE SECOND PUNIC WAR, 218 B.C.

The steady advance of the Carthaginian arms in Spain caused much uneasiness in Rome and at
length led that city to declare war. Carthage herself was not unwilling for a second trial
of strength. Her leading general, Hannibal, who had been winning renown in Spain, believed
that the Carthaginians were now in a position to wage an aggressive war against their mighty
rival. And so the two great Mediterranean powers, each confident of success, renewed the struggle
for supremacy.

HANNIBAL

At the opening of the conflict Hannibal was not quite twenty-seven years of age. While yet
a mere child, so the story went, his father had led him to the altar, and bade him swear by
the Carthaginian gods eternal enmity to Rome. He followed his father to Spain and there learned
all the duties of a soldier. As a master of the art of war, he ranks with Alexander the Great.
The Macedonian king conquered the world for the glory of conquest; Hannibal, burning with patriotism,
fought to destroy the power which had humbled his native land. He failed; and his failure left
Carthage weaker than he found her. Few men have possessed a more dazzling genius than Hannibal,
but his genius was not employed for the lasting good of humanity.

HANNIBAL'S INVASION OF ITALY

The Romans planned to conduct the war in Spain and Africa, at a distance from their own shores.
Hannibal's bold movements totally upset these calculations. The Carthaginian general had determined
that the conflict should take place in the Italian peninsula itself. Since Roman fleets now
controlled the Mediterranean, it was necessary for Hannibal to lead his army, with its supplies,
equipment, and beasts of burden, by the long and dangerous land route from Spain to Italy.
In the summer of 218 B.C. Hannibal set out from Spain with a large force of infantry and cavalry,
besides a number of elephants. Beyond the river Ebro he found himself in hostile territory,
through which the soldiers had to fight their way. To force the passage of the Pyrenees and
the Alps cost him more than half his original army. When, after a five months' march he stood
on the soil of Italy, Hannibal had scarcely twenty-five thousand troops with which to meet
the immense power of Rome--a power that, given time, could muster to her defense more than
half a million disciplined soldiers.

FIRST VICTORIES OF HANNIBAL

The Romans were surprised by the boldness and rapidity of Hannibal's movements. They had expected
to conduct the war far away in foreign lands; they now knew that they must fight for their
own homes and firesides. The first battles were complete victories for the Carthaginians and
opened the road to Rome. Hannibal's plans, however, did not include a siege of the capital.
He would not shatter his victorious army in an assault on a fortified town. Hannibal's real
object was to bring the Italians over to his side, to ruin Rome through the revolts of her
allies. But now he learned, apparently for the first time, that Italy was studded with Latin
colonies, [3] each a miniature Rome, each prepared to resist to the bitter end. Not a single
city opened its gates to the invader. On such solid foundations rested Roman rule in Italy.

A DICTATORSHIP

The Senate faced the crisis with characteristic energy. New forces were raised and intrusted
to a dictator, [4] Quintus Fabius Maximus. He refused to meet Hannibal in a pitched battle,
but followed doggedly his enemy's footsteps, meanwhile drilling his soldiers to become a match
for the Carthaginian veterans. This strategy was little to the taste of the Roman populace,
who nicknamed Fabius Cunctator, "the Laggard." However, it gave Rome a brief breathing space,
until her preparations to crush the invader should be completed.

BATTLE OF CANNAE, 316 B.C.

After the term of Fabius as dictator had expired, new consuls were chosen. They commanded the
largest army Rome had ever put in the field. The opposing forces met at Cannae in Apulia. The
Carthaginians numbered less than fifty thousand men; the Romans had more than eighty thousand
troops. Hannibal's sole superiority lay in his cavalry, which was posted on the wings with
the infantry occupying the space between. Hannibal's center was weak and gave way before the
Romans, who fought this time massed in solid columns. The arrangement was a poor one, for it
destroyed the mobility of the legions. The Roman soldiers, having pierced the enemy's lines,
now found themselves exposed on both flanks to the African infantry and taken in the rear by
Hannibal's splendid cavalry. The battle ended in a hideous butchery. One of the consuls died
fighting bravely to the last; the other escaped from the field and with the wreck of his army
fled to Rome. A Punic commander who survived such a disaster would have perished on the cross;
the Roman commander received the thanks of the Senate "for not despairing of the republic." [5]

AFTER CANNAE

The battle of Cannae marks the summit of Hannibal's career. He maintained himself in Italy
for thirteen years thereafter, but the Romans, taught by bitter experience, refused another
engagement with their foe. Hannibal's army was too small and too poorly equipped with siege
engines for a successful attack on Rome. His brother, Hasdrubal, led strong reinforcements
from Spain to Italy, but these were caught and destroyed before they could effect a junction
with Hannibal's troops. Meanwhile the brilliant Roman commander, Publius Scipio, drove the
Carthaginians from Spain and invaded Africa. Hannibal was summoned from Italy to face this
new adversary. He came, and on the field of Zama (202 B.C.) met his first and only defeat.
Scipio, the victor, received the proud surname, Africanus.

PEACE IN 201 B.C.

Exhausted Carthage could now do no more than sue for peace on any terms that Rome was willing
to grant. In the hour of defeat she still trusted her mighty soldier, and it was Hannibal who
conducted the final negotiations. The conditions of peace were severe enough. The Carthaginians
gave up Spain and all their ships except ten triremes. They were saddled with a huge indemnity
and bound to engage in no war without the consent of Rome. Carthage thus became a dependent
ally of the Roman city.

VICTORIOUS ROME

In describing the course and outcome of the Second Punic War our sympathies naturally go out
to the heroic figure of Hannibal, who fought so long and so bravely for his native land. It
is clear, however, that Rome's victory in the gigantic struggle was essential to the continued
progress of classical civilization. The triumph of Carthage in the third century, like that
of Persia in the fifth century, [6] must have resulted in the spread of Oriental ideas and
customs throughout the Mediterranean. From this fate Rome saved Europe.

58. ROMAN SUPREMACY IN THE WEST AND IN THE EAST, 201-133 B.C.

THIRD PUNIC WAR BEGUN, 148 B.C.

Carthage had been humbled, but not destroyed. She still enjoyed the advantages of her magnificent
situation and continued to be a competitor of Rome for the trade of the Mediterranean. The
Romans watched with jealousy the reviving strength of the Punic city and at last determined
to blot it out of existence. In 149 B.C. a large army was landed in Africa, and the inhabitants
of Carthage were ordered to remove ten miles from the sea. They resolved to perish in the ruins
of their capital, rather than obey such a cruel command.

DESTRUCTION OF CARTHAGE, 146 B.C.

Carthage held out for three years. The doubtful honor of its capture belonged to Scipio Aemilianus,
grandson, by adoption, of the victor of Zama. For seven days the legionaries fought their way,
street by street, house by house, until only fifty thousand inhabitants were left to surrender
to the tender mercies of the Romans. The Senate ordered that the city should be burned and
that its site should be plowed up and dedicated to the infernal gods. Such was the end of the
most formidable rival Rome ever met in her career of conquest. [7]

SICILY

The two European countries, Sicily and Spain, which Rome had taken from Carthage, presented
to the conqueror very different problems. Sicily had been long accustomed to foreign masters.
Its civilized and peace-loving inhabitants were as ready to accept Roman rule as, in the past,
they had accepted the rule of Greeks and Carthaginians. Every year the island became more and
more a part of Italy and of Rome.

SPAIN

Spain, on the contrary, gave the Romans some hard fighting. The wild Spanish tribes loved their
liberty, and in their mountain fastnesses long kept up a desperate struggle for independence.
It was not until the Romans sent Scipio Aemilianus to Spain that the Spanish resistance was
finally overcome (133 B.C.).

ROMANIZATION OF SPAIN

All Spain, except the inaccessible mountain district in the northwest, now became Roman territory.
Many colonists settled there; traders and speculators flocked to seaports; even the legionaries,
quartered in Spain for long periods, married Spanish wives and, on retiring from active service,
made their homes in the peninsula. Rome thus continued in Spain the process of Romanization
which she had begun in Italy. [8] She was to repeat this process in Gaul and Britain. [9] Her
way was prepared by the sword; but after the sword came civilization.

ROME AND MACEDONIA

While Rome was subduing the West, she was also extending her influence over the highly civilized
peoples of the East. Roman interference in the affairs of Macedonia found an excuse in the
attempt of that country, during the Second Punic War, to give aid to Hannibal. It was a fateful
moment when, for the second time, the legion faced the phalanx. The easy victory over Macedonia
showed that this Hellenistic kingdom was no match for the Italian republic. Macedonia was finally
made into a subject state or province of Rome. Thus disappeared a great power, which Philip
had founded and which Alexander had led to the conquest of the world.

ROME AND GREECE

Having subdued Macedonia, Rome proclaimed Greece a free state. But this "freedom" really meant
subjection, as was amply proved when some of the Greek cities rose in revolt against Roman
domination. The heavy hand of Roman vengeance especially descended on Corinth, at this time
one of the most beautiful cities of the world. In 146 B.C., the same year in which the destruction
of Carthage occurred, Corinth was sacked and burned to the ground. [10] The fall of Corinth
may be said to mark the final extinction of Greek liberty. Though the Hellenic cities and states
were allowed to rule themselves, they paid tribute and thus acknowledged the supremacy of Rome.
A century later, Greece became in name, as well as in fact, a province of the Roman Empire. [11]

ROME AND SYRIA

Rome, in the meantime, was drawn into a conflict with the kingdom of Syria. That Asiatic power
proved to be no more capable than Macedonia of checking the Roman advance. The Syrian king
had to give up the greater part of his possessions in Asia Minor. The western part of the peninsula,
together with the Greek cities on the coast, was formed in 133 B.C. into the province of Asia.
Thus the same year that witnessed the complete establishment of Roman rule in Spain saw Rome
gain her first possessions at the opposite end of the Mediterranean.

POLITICAL SITUATION IN 133 B.C.

Roman supremacy over the Mediterranean world was now all but complete. In 264 B.C. Rome had
been only one of the five great Mediterranean states. In 133 B.C. no other power existed to
match its strength with that of Rome. To her had fallen in the West the heritage of Carthage,
in the East the heritage of Alexander. Rome had built up this mighty empire at a terrible cost
in blood and treasure. Let us see what use she was to make of it.

59. THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD UNDER ROMAN RULE

CREATION OF THE PROVINCIAL SYSTEM

Rome's dealings with the new dependencies across the sea did not follow the methods that had
proved so successful in Italy. The Italian peoples had been treated with great liberality.
Rome regarded them as allies, exempted them from certain taxes, and in many instances gave
them Roman citizenship. It did not seem possible to extend this wise policy to remote and often
barbarous lands beyond the borders of Italy. Rome adopted, instead, much the same system of
imperial rule that had been previously followed by Persia and by Athens. [12] She treated the
foreign peoples from Spain to Asia as subjects and made her conquered territories into provinces.
[13] Their inhabitants were compelled to pay tribute and to accept the oversight of Roman officials.

EVILS OF THE PROVINCIAL SYSTEM

As the Romans came more and more to relish the opportunities for plunder afforded by a wealthy
province, its inhabitants were often wretchedly misgoverned. Many governors of the conquered
lands were corrupt and grasping men. They tried to wring all the money they could from their
helpless subjects. To the extortions of the governors must be added those of the tax collectors,
whose very name of "publican" [14] became a byword for all that was rapacious and greedy. In
this first effort to manage the world she had won, Rome had certainly made a failure. A city-state
could not rule, with justice and efficiency, an empire.

THE PROFITS OF CONQUEST

In the old days, before Rome entered on a career of foreign conquest, her citizens were famous
among men for their love of country, their simple lives, and their conservative, old-fashioned
ways. They worked hard on their little farms, fought bravely in the legions, and kept up with
careful piety all the ceremonies of their religion. But now the Roman republic was an imperial
power with all the privileges of universal rule. Her foreign wars proved to be immensely profitable.
At the end of a successful campaign the soldiers received large gifts from their general, besides
the booty taken from the enemy. The Roman state itself profited from the sale of enslaved prisoners
and their property. Large sums of money were sometimes seized and taken to Rome. When once
peace had been made, the Roman governors and tax collectors followed in the wake of the armies
and squeezed the provincials at every turn. The Romans, indeed, seem to have conquered the
world less for glory than for profit.

GROWTH OF LUXURY

So much wealth poured into Rome from every side that there could scarcely fail to be a sudden
growth of luxurious tastes. Rich nobles quickly developed a relish for all sorts of reckless
display. They built fine houses adorned with statues, costly paintings, and furnishings. They
surrounded themselves with troops of slaves. Instead of plain linen clothes they and their
wives wore garments of silk and gold. At their banquets they spread embroidered carpets, purple
coverings, and dishes of gilt plate. Pomp and splendor replaced the rude simplicity of an earlier
age.

DISAPPEARANCE OF THE PEASANTRY

But if the rich were becoming richer, it seems that the poor were also becoming poorer. After
Rome became mistress of the Mediterranean, her markets were flooded with the cheap wheat raised
in the provinces, especially in those granaries, Sicily and Africa. The price of wheat fell
so low that Roman peasants could not raise enough to support their families and pay their taxes.
When agriculture became unprofitable, the farmer was no longer able to remain on the soil.
He had to sell out, often at a ruinous sacrifice. His land was bought by capitalists, who turned
many small fields into vast sheep pastures and cattle ranches. Gangs of slaves, laboring under
the lash, gradually took the place of the old Roman peasantry, the very strength of the state.
Not unjust was the famous remark, "Great domains ruined Italy." [15]

THE EXODUS OF THE CITIES

The decline of agriculture and the disappearance of the small farmer under the stress of foreign
competition may be studied in modern England as well as in ancient Italy. Nowadays an English
farmer, under the same circumstances, will often emigrate to America or to Australia, where
land is cheap and it is easy to make a living. But these Roman peasants did not care to go
abroad and settle on better soil in Spain or in Africa. They thronged, instead, to the cities,
to Rome especially, where they labored for a small wage, fared plainly on wheat bread, and
dwelt in huge lodging houses, three or four stories high.

THE CITY MOB

We know very little about this poorer population of Rome. They must have lived from hand to
mouth. Since their votes controlled elections, [16] they were courted by candidates for office
and kept from grumbling by being fed and amused. Such poor citizens, too lazy for steady work,
too intelligent to starve, formed, with the other riffraff of a great city, the elements of
a dangerous mob. And the mob, henceforth, plays an ever- larger part in the history of the times.

HELLENIC INFLUENCE AT ROME

We must not imagine, however, that all the changes in Roman life worked for evil. If the Romans
were becoming more luxurious, they were likewise gaining in culture. The conquests which brought
Rome in touch, first with Magna Graecia and Sicily, then with Greece itself and the Hellenic
East, prepared the way for the entrance of Hellenism. Roman soldiers and traders carried back
to Italy an acquaintance with Greek customs and ideas. Thousands of cultivated Greeks, some
as slaves, others as freemen, settled in the capital as actors, physicians, artists, and writers.
There they introduced the Greek language, as well as the religion, literature, and art of their
native land. Roman nobles of the better type began to take an interest in other things than
simply farming, commerce, or war. They imitated Greek fashions in dress and manners, collected
Greek books, and filled their homes with the productions of Greek artists. Henceforth every
aspect of Roman society felt the quickening influence of the older, richer culture of the Hellenic
world. It was a Roman poet who wrote, "Captive Greece captured her conqueror rude." [17]

60. THE GRACCHI

TIBERIUS AND GAIUS GRACCHUS

In 133 B.C., a year otherwise made memorable by the final subjugation of Spain and the acquisition
of Asia, efforts began Rome to remedy some of the disorders which were now seen to be sapping
the strength of Roman society. The first persons to undertake the work of reform were the two
brothers, Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus. The Gracchi belonged to the highest nobility of Rome.
Their father had filled a consulship and a censorship and had celebrated triumphs. Cornelia,
their mother, was a daughter of Scipio Africanus, the conqueror of Hannibal. A fine type of
the Roman matron, she called her boys her "jewels," more precious than gold, and brought them
up to love their country better than their own lives. Tiberius, the elder brother, was only
thirty years of age when he became a tribune and began his career in Roman politics.

AGRARIAN LAW OF TIBERIUS GRACCHUS

Tiberius signalized his election to the tribunate by bringing forward his celebrated agrarian
law. He proposed that the public lands of Rome, then largely occupied by wealthy men who alone
had the money necessary to work them with cattle and slaves, should be reclaimed by the state,
divided into small tracts, and given to the poorer citizens. By getting the people back again
on the soil, Tiberius hoped to revive the declining agriculture of Italy.

DEFECTS OF THE AGRARIAN LAW

This agrarian law, though well intentioned, did not go to the root of the real difficulty--foreign
competition. No legislation could have helped the farming class, except import duties to keep
out the cheap grain from abroad. But the idle mob at Rome, controlling the assemblies, would
never have voted in favor of taxing their food, thus making it more expensive. At the same
time the proposal to take away part of the public domains from its possessors roused a hornet's
nest about the reformer's ears. Rich people had occupied the public land for so long that they
had come to look upon it as really their own. They would be very sure to oppose such a measure.
Poor people, of course, welcomed a scheme which promised to give them farms for nothing. Tiberius
even wished to use the public funds to stock the farms of his new peasantry. This would have
been a mischievous act of state philanthropy.

FAILURE AND DEATH OF TIBERIUS, 133 B.C.

In spite of these defects in his measure, Tiberius urged its passage with fiery eloquence.
But the great landowners in the Senate got another tribune, devoted to their interests, to
place his veto [18] on the proposed legislation. The impatient Tiberius at once took a revolutionary
step. Though a magistrate could not legally be removed from office, Tiberius had the offending
tribune deposed and dragged from his seat. The law was then passed without further opposition.
This action of Tiberius placed him clearly in the wrong. The aristocrats threatened to punish
him as soon as his term of office was over. To avoid impeachment Tiberius sought reelection
to the tribunate for the following year. This, again, was contrary to custom, since no one
might hold office for two successive terms. On the day appointed for the election, while voting
was in progress, a crowd of angry senators burst into the Forum and killed Tiberius, together
with three hundred of his followers. Both sides had now begun to display an utter disregard
for law. Force and bloodshed, henceforth, were to help decide political disputes.

GAIUS GRACCHUS BECOMES TRIBUNE, 123 B.C.

Tiberius Gracchus, in his efforts to secure economic reform, had unwittingly provoked a conflict
between the Senate and the assemblies. Ten years after his death, his brother, Gaius Gracchus,
came to the front. Gaius quickly made himself a popular leader with the set purpose of remodeling
the government of Rome. He found in the tribunate an office from which to work against the
Senate. After the death of Tiberius a law had been passed permitting a man to hold the position
of tribune year after year. Gaius intended to be a sort of perpetual tribune, and to rule the
Roman assemblies very much as Pericles had ruled the people at Athens. [19] One of his first
measures was a law permitting the sale of grain from the public storehouses to Roman citizens
at about half the market price. This measure, of course, won over the city mob, but it must
be regarded as very unwise. It saddled the treasury with a heavy burden, and later the government
had to furnish the grain for nothing. Indiscriminate charity of this sort increased, rather
than lessened, the number of paupers.

MEASURES OF GAIUS TO RELIEVE THE POOR

Having won popular support, Gaius was able to secure the additional legislation which he deemed
necessary to carry out his brother's work. He reenacted the land laws for the benefit of the
peasantry and furnished work for the unemployed by building roads throughout Italy. He also
began to establish colonies of poor citizens, both in Italy and in the provinces. This was
a wise policy. Had it been allowed to continue, such state-assisted emigration, by providing
the landless poor of Italy with farms abroad, would have relieved the economic distress of
the peninsula.

AN EFFORT TO EXTEND ROMAN CITIZENSHIP

Gaius now came forward with another measure which marked him as an able and prudent statesman.
He proposed to bestow the right of voting in the Roman assemblies upon the inhabitants of the
Latin colonies. [20] He thought, also, that the Italian allies should be allowed to intermarry
with Romans and hold property under the protection of the Roman law. No doubt Gaius believed
that the time might come when all the Italian peoples would be citizens of Rome. This time
did come, thirty years later, but only after a terrible war that nearly ruined Rome.

FAILURE AND DEATH OF GAIUS, 121 B.C.

The effort by Gaius to extend Roman citizenship cost the reformer all his hard-won popularity.
It aroused the jealousy of the selfish city mob, which believed that the entrance of so many
new citizens would mean the loss of its privileges. There would not be so many free shows and
so much cheap grain. So the people rejected the measure and, turning from their former favorite,
failed to reelect him to the tribunate. When Gaius was no longer protected by the sanctity
of the tribune's office, [21] he fell an easy victim to senatorial hatred. Another bloody tumult
broke out, in which Gaius and three thousand of his followers perished. The consul who quelled
the disturbance erected at the head of the Forum a temple to Harmony (Concordia).

THE GRACCHI BEGIN THE REVOLUTION

The pathetic career of the Gracchi had much significance in Roman history. They were the unconscious
sponsors of a revolutionary movement which did not end until the republic had come under the
rule of one man. They failed because they put their trust in the support of the Roman mob.
Future agitators were to appear with the legionaries at their heels.

61. MARIUS AND SULLA

MARIUS AND THE JUGURTHINE WAR, 112-106 B.C.

Although Rome now ruled throughout the Mediterranean, she was constantly engaged in border
wars in one corner or another of her wide dominions. These wars brought to the front new military
leaders, of whom the first was Gaius Marius. He was a peasant's son, a coarse, rude soldier,
but an honest, courageous, and able man. Marius rose to prominence in the so- called Jugurthine
War, which the Romans were waging against Jugurtha, king of Numidia. That wily African had
discovered that it was easier to bribe the Roman commanders than to fight them; and the contest
dragged on in disgraceful fashion year after year. Marius at last persuaded the people to elect
him consul and intrust him with the conduct of the war. By generalship and good fortune he
speedily concluded the struggle and brought Jugurtha in chains to Rome.

MARIUS AND THE WAR WITH THE GERMANS, 102-101 B.C.

A few years later Marius had another opportunity to win distinction. He became the defender
of Rome and Italy against a dangerous invasion of Germanic barbarians, who were ravaging Transalpine
Gaul and the Po Valley. The decisive victories which Marius gained over them removed a grave
danger which threatened the Roman world. The time had not yet come for ancient civilization
to be submerged under a wave of barbarism.

SULLA AND THE SOCIAL WAR, 90-88 B.C.

The second military leader whom this troubled period brought forth was Lucius Cornelius Sulla.
He was a man of noble birth, and with his social gifts, his appreciation of art and letters,
his knowledge of men and the world, presented a sharp contrast to Marius. Sulla's great abilities
quickly brought him into public notice; he rose rapidly from one office to another; and in
the Social War showed his skill as a commander. This struggle was the consequence of Rome's
refusal to grant the rights of citizenship to her Italian allies. The strength of the rebellion
lay among the Samnites and other peoples of central and southern Italy. The war came to an
end only when Rome promised the franchise to all Italians who returned to their allegiance.
Before many years had passed, the inhabitants of nearly all the Italian towns south of the
Rubicon River received Roman citizenship. It was this same wise policy of making conquered
peoples equal with herself that afterwards led Rome to grant citizenship to the inhabitants
of the provinces. [22]

SULLA AND THE MITHRADATIC WAR, 88-84 B.C.

What military honors were gained in the struggle belonged to Sulla. His reward was the consulship
and an appointment as general in still another conflict which distracted Rome had to face.
While that city had been busy with civil enemies and barbarian foes, a powerful state, known
as Pontus, had been growing up in Asia Minor. Its king, Mithradates, overran the Roman provinces
in the Orient and threatened to annex them to his own kingdom. But Sulla, with greatly inferior
forces, compelled Mithradates to abandon his conquests, surrender his fleet, and pay a large
indemnity. If Marius had the honor of repelling the barbarian invasion of the West, Sulla had
the honor of preserving Rome's possessions in the East.

RIVALRY OF MARIUS AND SULLA

Marius and Sulla were rivals not only in war but also in politics. Sulla naturally espoused
the aristocratic cause and stood as the champion of the Senate. Marius just as naturally became
the head of the democratic party. The rivalry between the two leaders finally led to civil
war. During Sulla's absence in the East the democrats got the upper hand at Rome and revenged
themselves by murdering their political foes among the aristocrats. The reign of terror ended
only with the sudden death of Marius, just after he had been elected to his seventh consulship.
A few years later Sulla returned to Italy with his army and defeated the democrats in a great
battle outside the Colline Gate of Rome. Sulla signalized his victory by ordering the assassination
of every prominent man in the democratic party.

SULLA AS "PERPETUAL DICTATOR"

Sulla regarded this legalized butchery as a necessary step in his self- appointed task of putting
the Roman government once more to rights. He now received the title of "Perpetual Dictator,"
with complete authority to govern the state until the new order of things should be established.
Rome thus came under the rule of one man for the first time since the expulsion of the kings.

SULLA'S DEATH, 78 B.C.

The various measures by which Sulla intrenched the Senate in power did not long survive his
death and hence had no lasting influence on Roman politics. After a rule of three years Sulla
voluntarily gave up the dictatorship and retired to his villa on the bay of Naples. He died
a few months later. The Senate honored him with a public funeral, the most splendid that Rome
had ever seen. His monument bore an inscription which the dictator himself is said to have
composed: "No friend ever did him a kindness and no enemy, a wrong, without being fully repaid."
[23] That was one epitaph which told the truth.

62. POMPEY AND CAESAR

RISE OF POMPEY

The struggle between Marius and Sulla, decided as it was by the sword, marks a stage in the
decline of the Roman Republic. The careers of these two men showed how easily the state could
be ruled by a successful commander who had his soldiers behind him. After Sulla's death his
friend Pompey became the leading figure in Roman politics. Pompey's first service was in Spain,
where the adherents of Marius sought to humble the Senate and the aristocratic party by encouraging
the Spaniards to rise against Roman rule. Having crushed this rebellion, Pompey returned to
Italy in time to take part in putting down a formidable insurrection of slaves, outlaws, and
ruined peasants. He was next intrusted with the war against the pirates, who swarmed in the
Mediterranean, preyed on commerce, and plundered wealthy cities near the coast. Brilliant success
in clearing the seas of these marauders led to his being sent to the East to end the war with
Mithradates, who was once more in arms against Rome. Pompey drove the Pontic monarch from his
kingdom and then annexed Syria to the Roman dominions. When Pompey returned to Rome in 62 B.C.,
he brought with him a reputation as the most successful general of his time.

MARCUS TULLIUS CICERO

We have seen how steadily since the days of the Gracchi the Roman state had been moving toward
the rule of one man. Marius, Sulla, and Pompey each represent a step in the direction of monarchy.
Yet there were still able and patriotic leaders at Rome who believed in the old order of things
and tried their best to uphold the fast-perishing republic. No republican statesman was more
devoted to the constitution than Cicero. A native of Arpinum, the same Italian town which had
already given birth to Marius, Cicero came to Rome a youth without wealth or family influence.
He made his way into Roman society by his social and conversational powers and by his capacity
for friendship. His mind had been carefully trained under the influence of Hellenic culture;
he had traveled and studied in Greece; and throughout life he loved to steal away from the
tumult of the Forum and the law courts and enjoy the companionship of his books. Though the
proud nobles were inclined to look down on him as a "new man," Cicero's splendid eloquence
soon gave him prominence in politics. He ranks in fame as the second orator of antiquity, inferior
only to Demosthenes.

IMPEACHMENT OF VERRES, 70 B.C.

Cicero rose to prominence through his prosecution of Verres, a thieving governor of Sicily.
Verres had powerful friends among the nobles at Rome and counted on his influence and wealth
to escape punishment. He openly boasted that he had plunder enough to live in luxury, even
though he had to surrender two-thirds of it as fees to his lawyers and bribes to the jury.
But Verres had not reckoned with the brilliant young advocate who took up the cause of the
oppressed provincials. Cicero hurried to Sicily and there collected such an overwhelming mass
of evidence that the bare statement of the facts was enough to condemn the criminal. Verres
went into exile. Cicero became the head of the Roman bar. Seven years later he was elected consul.

CONSPIRACY OF CATILINE, 63 B.C.

The year of Cicero's consulship was marked by an event which throws a lurid light on the conditions
of the time. Lucius Catiline, a young noble of ability, but bankrupt in character and purse,
organized a conspiracy to seize Rome, murder the magistrates, and plunder the rich. He gathered
about himself outlaws of every description, slaves, and starving peasants --all the discontented
and needy classes throughout Italy. He and his associates were desperate anarchists who sought
to restore their own broken fortunes by overturning the government. The spread of the insurrection
was checked by Cicero's vigorous measures. In a series of famous speeches he exposed Catiline's
plans to the astounded Senate. Catiline then fled to his camp in Etruria and shortly afterwards
perished in battle, together with three thousand of his followers. Cicero now gained fresh
popularity and honor. The grateful citizens called him "Father of his Country" (Pater Patriae).

RISE OF CAESAR

Rome at this time held another prominent leader in politics, namely, Gaius Julius Caesar. He
belonged to a noble family, but his father had favored the democratic cause and his aunt had
married Marius. After Sulla's death Caesar threw himself with energy into the game of politics
at the capital city. In these early years the future statesman seems to have been a demagogue
of the usual type, who sought through the favor of the people a rapid rise to power. He won
the ear of the multitude by his fiery harangues, his bribes of money, and his gifts of food
and public shows. Caesar's expenditures for such purposes were enormous. Before he was twenty-four
he had spent all his private fortune. Henceforth he was "financed" by the millionaire Crassus,
who lent him the money so necessary for a successful career as a politician.

THE FIRST TRIUMVIRATE, 60 B.C.

Caesar and Crassus, the two leaders of the democratic party at Rome, now joined with Pompey
in what is called the First Triumvirate. To this "ring" Pompey contributed his military reputation,
Crassus, his wealth, and Caesar, his influence over the Roman mob. Supported both by the people
and by the army, these three men were really masters of Rome. An immediate result of the First
Triumvirate was the appointment of Caesar as governor of Cisalpine and Transalpine Gaul.

CAESAR'S CAMPAIGNS IN GAUL, 58-50 B.C.

The story of his career in Gaul has been related by Caesar himself in the famous Commentaries.
This book describes a series of military successes which have given the author a place among
the world's generals. Caesar overran Transalpine Gaul, twice bridged the Rhine and invaded
Germany, made two expeditions to Britain, and brought within the Roman dominions all the territory
bounded by the Pyrenees, the Alps, the Rhine, and the Atlantic Ocean.

ROMANIZATION OF GAUL

Caesar's conquests in Gaul are more than a chapter in the history of the art of war. They belong
to the history of civilization. Henceforth the frontier of prehistoric Europe retreated rapidly
to the north. The map of the ancient civilized world widened from the Mediterranean basin to
the shores of the Atlantic. Into the conquered lands came the Latin language, the Roman law,
and the customs and institutions of Rome. Gaul speedily became one of the most flourishing
parts of the Roman world.

DEFEAT AND DEATH OF CRASSUS, 53 B.C.

During Caesar's long absence in Gaul the First Triumvirate was suddenly ended by the death
of one of its members. It had been a part of their bargain in dividing the Roman world that
Crassus should have the government of Syria. But this unlucky general, while aspiring to rival
Caesar's exploits by new conquests beyond the Euphrates, lost his army and his life in battle
with the Parthians. Besides checking the extension of the Roman arms in the remote East, the
disaster had its effect on Roman politics. It dissolved the triumvirate and prepared the way
for that rivalry between Caesar and Pompey which formed the next step in the downward course
of the republic.

GROWING OPPOSITION BETWEEN POMPEY AND CAESAR

The two men were now rapidly drawing apart. Pompey grew more and more jealous of Caesar and
more and more fearful that the latter was aiming at despotic power. He himself had no desire
to be king or dictator. He was equally determined that Caesar should not gain such a position.
In this attitude he had the full support of Cicero and the other members of the Senate. They
saw clearly that the real danger to the state was Caesar, not Pompey.

CAESAR DECLARES WAR IN THE REPUBLIC, 49 B.C.

Caesar's command in Gaul was to expire in 49 B.C. The senatorial party desired that he should
return to Rome without an army. His opponents intended to prosecute him when he became a private
citizen. Caesar had no inclination to trust himself to their tender mercies and refused to
disband his legions unless his rival did the same. Finally the Senate, conscious of Pompey's
support, ordered him to lay down his arms on pain of outlawry. Caesar replied to this challenge
of the Senate by leading his troops across the Rubicon, the little stream that separated Cisalpine
Gaul from Italy. As he plunged into the river, he exclaimed, "The die is cast." [24] He had
now declared war on the republic.

CAESAR MASTER OF THE WEST

Caesar's bold movement caught the senatorial party unawares. Pompey could not gather his legions
before his audacious foe reached Rome. Finding it impossible to make a stand in Italy, Pompey,
with the consuls and many senators, withdrew to Greece. Caesar did not follow him at once.
He hurried to Spain and, after a brilliant campaign only six weeks in length, broke down the
republican resistance in that peninsula. Pompey's troops, though nearly twice as numerous as
Caesar's, were defeated after a severe struggle. Their great leader then fled to Egypt, only
to be foully murdered. Pompey's head was sent to Caesar, but he turned from it with horror.
Such was the end of an able general and an honest man, one who should have lived two hundred
years earlier, when Rome was still a free state.

CAESAR IN EGYPT, ASIA MINOR, AND AFRICA, 48-46 B.C.

After Pharsalus there still remained several years of fighting before Caesar's victory was
complete. He made Cleopatra, the beautiful queen of Egypt, secure in the possession of the
throne and brought that country into dependence on Rome. He passed through Asia Minor and in
one swift campaign crushed a revolt headed by the son of Mithridates. The conqueror sent tidings
of his victory in a laconic dispatch: "I came, I saw, I conquered." [25] After subduing the
remnants of the senatorial party in Africa, Caesar returned home to crown his exploits by a
series of splendid triumphs and to enjoy less than two years of untrammeled power.

63. THE WORK OF CAESAR

AUTHORITY AND POSITION OF CAESAR

The new government which Caesar brought into being was a monarchy in all except name. He became
dictator for life and held other republican offices, such as the consulship and censorship.
He refused the title of king, but accepted as a civil magistrate the name of imperator, [26]
with which the soldiers had been wont to salute a victorious general. Though he abolished none
of the old republican forms, the Senate became simply his advisory council, the assemblies,
his submissive agents the consuls, praetors and tribunes, his pliant tools. The laurel wreath,
the triumphal dress, the conqueror's scepter--all proclaimed the autocrat.

CHARACTER OF CAESAR'S RULE

Caesar used his power wisely and well. No massacres or confiscations sullied his victory. He
treated his former foes with clemency and even with kindness. No sooner was domestic tranquillity
assured than, with restless energy, he entered on a series of far-reaching reforms.

REFORMS AT ROME AND IN ITALY

Caesar's measures sought to remove the economic evils which a century of discord had made so
manifest. By restricting the monthly distribution of grain to those actually in need, he tried
to discourage the public charity which was making the capital city a paradise for the idle
and the shiftless. By planning great colonies beyond the sea, notably at Corinth and Carthage,
he sought to provide farms for the landless citizens of Italy. His active mind even found time
for such matters as the codification of Roman law, the construction of great public works,
and the improvement of the coinage and the calendar. [27]

REFORMATION OF THE PROVINCIAL SYSTEM

Caesar's reforms in the provinces had an epoch-making character. He reduced taxes, lessened
the burden of their collection, and took into his own hands the appointment of provincial magistrates.
Henceforth oppressive governors and swindling publicans had to expect swift, stern punishment
from one whose interests included the welfare of both citizens and subjects. By granting Roman
citizenship to communities in Gaul and Sicily, he indicated his purpose, as rapidly as possible,
to convert the provincials into Romans. It was Caesar's aim to break down the barriers between
Rome and her provinces, to wipe out the distinction between the conquerors and the conquered.

ASSASSINATION OF CAESAR, 44 B.C.

Caesar did not live to complete his task. Like that other colossal figure, Alexander the Great,
he perished before his work as a statesman had hardly more than begun. On the Ides of March,
44 B.C., he was struck down in the Senate-house by the daggers of a group of envious and irreconcilable
nobles, headed by Cassius and Brutus. He fell at the foot of Pompey's statue, pierced with
no less than twenty-three wounds. His body was burnt on a pyre in the Forum, and his friend,
Antony, pronounced the funeral eulogy.

CONSEQUENCES OF CAESAR'S DEATH

In the light of all the possibilities of beneficent government which Caesar was revealing,
his cowardly murder becomes one of the most stupendous follies recorded in history. Caesar's
death could not restore the republic. It served only to prolong disorder and strife within
the Roman state. As Cicero himself said, hearing the news, "The tyrant is dead; the tyranny
still lives."

64. ANTONY AND OCTAVIAN

ANTONY BECOMES CAESAR'S SUCCESSOR

The murderers of Caesar called themselves the "liberators" of the republic. They thought that
all Rome would applaud their deed, but the contrary was true. The senatorial order remained
lukewarm. The people, instead of flocking to their support, mourned the loss of a friend and
benefactor. Soon the conspirators found themselves in great peril. Caesar's friend and lieutenant,
Antony, who became sole consul after Caesar's death, quickly made himself master of the situation.
Brutus and Cassius were forced to withdraw to the provinces which had been previously assigned
to them by Caesar, leaving Antony to rule Rome as his successor.

A RIVAL IN THE YOUNG OCTAVIAN

Antony's hope of reigning supreme was soon disturbed by the appearance of a new rival. Caesar,
in his will, had made his grandnephew, Octavian, [28] his heir. He now came to Rome to claim
the inheritance. In that sickly, studious youth people did not at first recognize the masterful
personality he was soon to exhibit. They rather reechoed Cicero's sentiment that "the young
man was to be praised, complimented, and got rid of." [29] But Octavian easily made himself
a power, winning the populace by paying Caesar's legacies to them and conciliating the senatorial
party by siding with it against Antony. Men now began to talk of Octavian as the destined restorer
of the republic.

THE SECOND TRIUMVIRATE, 43 B.C.

Octavian, however, entertained other designs. He had never been sincere in his support of the
Senate, and the distrustful policy of that body soon converted him into an active foe. From
fighting Antony, Octavian turned to alliance with him. The two antagonists made up their differences,
and with Lepidus, one of Caesar's lieutenants, as a third ally, marched on Rome at the head
of their legions. The city fell again under military rule. The three men then united in the
Second Triumvirate with full authority to govern and reorganize the state. The advent of this
new tyranny was signalized by a butchery almost as bloody as Sulla's. Cicero, who had incurred
the hatred of Antony by his fiery speeches against him, was the most illustrious victim. More
than two thousand persons, mainly men of high rank, were slain. The triumvirs by this massacre
firmly established their rule at Rome and in the West.

BATTLES OF PHILIPPI, 42 B.C.

In the East, where Brutus and Cassius had gathered a formidable force, the triumvirs were not
to win without a struggle. It took place on the plain of Philippi in Macedonia. The two battles
fought there ended in the suicide of the republican leaders and the dispersal of their troops.
This was the last attempt to restore the republic by force of arms.

DIVISION OF THE ROMAN WORLD

Though the republic had been overthrown, it remained to be seen who would be master of the
new empire, Antony or Octavian. The triumvirate lasted for more than ten years, but during
this period the incompetent Lepidus was set aside by his stronger colleagues. The two remaining
members then divided between them the Roman world. Octavian took Italy and the West; Antony
took the East, with Alexandria as his capital.

OCTAVIAN IN THE WEST

In the western half of the empire Octavian ruled quietly and with success. Men were already
congratulating themselves on the return of peace under a second Caesar. In a few years Octavian,
from an obscure boy of eighteen, had grown to be one of the most powerful personalities of his age.

ANTONY IN THE EAST

In the eastern half of the empire things did not go so well. Antony was clever, but fond of
luxury and vice. He had married a sister of Octavian, but he soon grew tired of her and put
her away for the fascinating Cleopatra. [30] The Roman world was startled by tidings that she
had been proclaimed "queen of kings," and that to her and her sons had been given the richest
provinces in the East. It was even rumored that Cleopatra, having enslaved Antony with her
charms, planned to be enthroned as queen at Rome.

BATTLE OF ACTIUM, 31 B.C.

Antony's disgraceful conduct aroused the Roman people. They willingly followed Octavian to
a war against one who seemed a national enemy. A naval battle in the bay of Actium, on the
coast of Epirus, decided the issue. The fight had hardly begun before Cleopatra and Antony
sailed away, leaving their fleet to take care of itself. Octavian pursued the infatuated pair
into Egypt. Antony committed suicide, and Cleopatra, rather than be led a captive in a Roman
triumph, followed his example. With the death of Cleopatra the dynasty of the Ptolemies [31]
came to an end. Egypt henceforth formed a province of the Roman Empire.

THE TRIUMPH OF OCTAVIAN

Octavian, on his return to Rome, enjoyed the honors of a three days' triumph. [32] As the grand
parade moved along the Sacred Way through the Forum, and thence to the temple of Jupiter on
the Capitoline, men noted that the magistrates, instead of heading the procession as was the
custom, followed in the conqueror's train. It was a significant change. Octavian, not the magistrates
of Rome, now ruled the Roman world.

65. THE END OF AN EPOCH

DOOM OF THE REPUBLIC

The republic, indeed, was doomed. A hundred years of dissension and civil warfare proclaimed
clearly enough the failure of the old order. Rome was a city-state suddenly called to the responsibilities
of universal rule. Both the machinery of her government and the morals of her people were inadequate
for so huge a task. The gradual revolution which changed this Roman city-state into imperial
Rome, judged by its results, is perhaps the most momentous movement in the annals of mankind.
Let us summarize its course.

A CENTURY OF REVOLUTION

In 133 B.C. Roman society had been corrupted and enfeebled as the result of foreign conquests.
The supreme power in the state more and more tended to fall into the hands of a narrow oligarchy--the
senatorial nobility. Its dishonesty and weakness soon led to efforts at reform. The attempts
of the Gracchi to overthrow the Senate's position and restore popular sovereignty ended in
disaster. Then, in quick succession, arose a series of military leaders who aimed to secure
by the sword what was no longer to be obtained through constitutional and legal means. Marius,
a great general but no politician, could only break down and destroy. Sulla, a sincere but
narrow-minded statesman, could do no more than prop up the structure-- already tottering--of
senatorial rule. Pompey soon undid that work and left the constitution to become again the
sport of rival soldiers. Caesar, triumphing over Pompey, gained a position of unchallenged
supremacy. After Caesar's death, imperial power was permanently restored in the person of Octavian.
The battle of Actium in 31 B.C. made Octavian master of the Roman world.

THE FUTURE

But the Romans were not yet an old and worn-out people. On the ruins of the old republican
order it was still possible to build up a new imperial system in which good government, peace,
and prosperity should prevail for more than two centuries. During this period Rome performed
her real, her enduring, work for civilization.

STUDIES

1. Write a summary account (500 words) of Roman expansion 264-133 B.C.

2. On outline maps indicate the possessions of Carthage and Rome at the beginning of the First
Punic War; at the beginning of the Second Punic War; at the end of the Second Punic War.

3. On outline maps indicate the boundaries of the Roman world in 133 B.C. and in 31 B.C. and
the division into provinces at these dates.

4. What events are connected with the following places: Zama; Cannae; Actium; Pharsalus, and
Philippi?

5. Who were Quintus Fabius Maximus, Mithradates, Catiline, and Cleopatra?

6. Identify the following dates: 146 B.C.; 264 B.C.; 133 B.C.; 201 B.C.; 44 B.C.; and 63 B.C.

7. Why has Carthage been called the "London" of the ancient world?

8. What is meant by the statement that Carthage is a "dumb actor on the stage of history"?

9. Was Rome wise in adopting her new policy of expansion beyond the limits of Italy?

10. Give some examples in modern times of war indemnities paid by defeated nations.

11. Why did the Romans call the Second Punic War the "War of Hannibal"?

12. What is a "Fabian policy"? Do you know why Washington was called the "American Fabius"?

13. What reasons can you give for Hannibal's early successes and final failure?

14. Show the signal importance to Rome of her control of the sea during the Second Punic War.

15. Comment on this statement: "As the rise of Rome was central in history, the Second Punic
War was central in the rise of Rome."

16. What provinces had been formed by 133 B.C. (map facing page 184)?

17. What parts of the world belonged to Rome in 133 B.C. but were not yet provinces?

18. Might Rome have extended her federal policy to her territories outside of Italy? Was a
provincial system really necessary?

19. Compare a Persian satrapy with a Roman province.

20. Would import duties on foreign grain have revived Italian agriculture?

21. Why did the cattle breeder in Italy have no reason to fear foreign competition?

22. Compare the Athenian practice of state pay with the Roman "bread and the games of the circus."

23. Had the Italians triumphed in the Social War, is it likely they would have established
a better government than that of Rome?

24. Was Marius or was Sulla more to blame for the Civil War?

25. Explain the real meaning of Sulla's "perpetual dictatorship."

26. Why was the rule of the Senate, unsatisfactory though it was, to be preferred to that of
the Roman populace?

27. Why is the First Triumvirate described as a "ring"? Did it have an official character?

28. Why does the First Triumvirate mark a distinct step toward the establishment of the empire?

29. Why can wars with barbarous and savage peoples be justified as "the most ultimately righteous
of all wars"?

30. Can you suggest why Caesar's conquest of Gaul had even greater importance than Pompey's
conquests in the East?

31. Was Caesar justified in leading his army against Rome?

32. Had Pompey triumphed over Caesar, is it probable that the republic would have been restored?

33. What contrasts can you draw between Caesar and Alexander?

34. Justify the aphorism, "In the midst of arms the laws are silent," by the statements in
this chapter.

35. How do you account for the failure of the republican institutions of Rome?

FOOTNOTES

[1] Webster, Readings in Ancient History, chapter xv, "Hannibal and the Great Punic War"; chapter
xvi, "Cato the Censor: a Roman of the Old School"; chapter xvii, "Cicero the Orator"; chapter
xviii, "The Conquest of Gaul, Related by Caesar"; chapter xix, "The Makers of Imperial Rome:
Character Sketches by Suetonius."

[2] See page 123.

[3] See page 155.

[4] See page 149.

[5] Livy, xxii, 61.

[6] See page 100.

[7] In 29 B.C., one hundred and seventeen years after the destruction of Carthage at the end
of the Punic wars, a new town was founded near the old site by the emperor Augustus. It became
in time the third city of the Roman Empire. It was destroyed by the Arabs in 698 A.D.

[8] See page 158.

[9] See pages 184 and 197.

[10] Corinth offered too good a site to remain long in ruins. Resettled in 46 B.C. as a Roman
colony, it soon became one of the great cities in the empire. It was to the Corinthians that
St Paul wrote two of his Epistles.

[11] The Greeks were not again a free people until the nineteenth century of our era. In 1821
A.D. they rose against their Turkish masters in a glorious struggle for liberty. Eight years
later the powers of Europe forced the Sultan to recognize the freedom of Greece. That country
then became an independent kingdom, with its capital at Athens.

[12] See pages 39-40 and 104.

[13] In 133 B.C. there were eight provinces--Sicily, Sardinia and Corsica, Hither Spain, Farther
Spain, Illyricum, Africa, Macedonia, and Asia. See the map facing page 184.

[14] In the New Testament "publicans and sinners" are mentioned side by side. See Matthew, ix, 10.

[15] Latifundia perdidere Italiam (Pliny, Natural History, xviii, 7).

[16] See page 155.

[17] Horace, Epistles, ii, 1, 156.

[18] See page 103.

[19] See page 150.

[20] See page 155, note 2.

[21] See page 150.

[22] See page 204.

[23] Plutarch, Sulla, 38.

[24] Suetonius, Julius Caesar, 32.

[25] Veni, vidi, vici (Suetonius, Julius Caesar, 37).

[26] Hence our word "emperor."

[27] Before Caesar's reform (46 B.C.) the Roman year consisted of 12 months and 355 days. As
this lunar year, like that of the Greeks, was shorter than the solar year, it had been necessary
to intercalate an additional month, of varying length, in every alternate year. Caesar adopted
the more accurate Egyptian calendar of 365 days and instituted the system of leap years. His
rearrangement made the year 11 minutes, 14 seconds too long. By 1582 A.D. this difference had
amounted to nearly 10 days. Pope Gregory XIII modified the "Julian Calendar" by calling Oct.
5, 1582, Oct. 15, and continuing the count 10 days in advance. This "Gregorian Calendar" was
adopted by Great Britain in 1752 A.D. and subsequently by other Protestant countries. It has
not won acceptance in Russia and Greece. The difference between the two systems--the Old Style
and the New Style--is now about 13 days.

[28] His name was Octavius, but after his adoption by Caesar he called himself Gaius Julius
Caesar Octavianus.

[29] Cicero, Letters, xix, 20.

[30] See page 185.

[31] See page 127.

[32] See page 160. AUGUSTUS, 31 B.C.-l4 A.D.

THE EARLY EMPIRE, 31 B.C.-180 A.D.

The period of two hundred and eleven years, between the accession of Augustus and the death
of Marcus Aurelius, is known as the Early Empire. As we shall now learn, it was a time of settled
government and of internal tranquillity. Except for a brief period of anarchy at the close
of the reign of Nero, it was also a time of regular succession to the throne. Nearly all the
emperors were vigorous and capable rulers. The peace and prosperity which they gave to the
Roman world amply justify--if justification be needed--the change from republic to empire.

THE NEW RULER

Few persons have set their stamp more indelibly on the pages of history than Octavian, whom
we may now call by his more familiar name Augustus ("Majestic"). Augustus was no military genius
to dazzle the world with his achievements. He was a cool and passionless statesman who took
advantage of a memorable opportunity to remake the Roman state, and who succeeded in the attempt.
Absolute power, which destroys weaker men, with Augustus brought out the nobler elements of
character. From the successful leader of a party he became the wise and impartial ruler of
an empire.

THE NEW GOVERNMENT

Augustus had almost unlimited power. His position was that of a king, as supreme as Julius
Caesar had ever been. Better, however, than Julius Caesar, Augustus realized that an undisguised
autocracy would only alienate public opinion and invite fresh plots and rebellions, Augustus
intended to be the real master, but he would also be careful to conceal his authority under
republican forms. The emperor was neither king, dictator, nor triumvir. He called himself a
republican magistrate-- Princeps [2]--the "First Citizen" of the state.

POWERS ENJOYED BY AUGUSTUS

Augustus gave up the externals, only to keep the essentials, of royalty. He held the proconsular
authority, which extended over the frontier provinces and their legions. He held the tribunician
authority, which made his person sacred. As perpetual tribune he could preside over the popular
assemblies, manage the Senate and change its membership at pleasure, and veto the acts of almost
any magistrate. In the provinces and at home in the capital city the emperor was supreme.

THE EMPIRE UNDER AUGUSTUS

Augustus ruled a vast realm. In it all the dreams of world dominion which Alexander had cherished
were more than realized. The empire included nearly the entire circle of the Mediterranean
lands. On the west and south it found natural barriers in the Atlantic Ocean and the African
desert. On the east the Euphrates River had formed, since the defeat of Crassus, [3] the dividing
line between Rome and Parthia. The northern frontier, beyond which lay the Germanic barbarians,
required, however, additional conquests for its protection.

THE DANUBE BOUNDARY

The Danube River made an admirable boundary for much of the Roman territory between the Black
Sea and the Rhine. Augustus annexed the district south of the lower course of this river and
formed it into the province of Moesia (modern Serbia and Bulgaria). The line of the upper Danube
was later secured by the creation of three new provinces on the northern slopes of the Alps.
[4] Henceforth the Balkan peninsula and Italy on the northeast, where the Alpine passes are
low and comparatively easy, were shielded from attack.

THE RHINE BOUNDARY

After the conquests of Julius Caesar in Gaul the Rhine had become the frontier between that
country and Germany. Augustus repeatedly sent the legions into western Germany on punitive
expeditions to strike terror into its warlike tribes and to inspire respect for Roman power.
It is doubtful, however, whether he ever intended to conquer Germany and to convert it into
another province. His failure to do so meant that the Germans were not to be Romanized as were
their neighbors, the Celts of Gaul. The Rhine continued to be the dividing-line between Roman
civilization and Germanic barbarism.

THE AUGUSTAN AGE

The clash of arms on the distant frontiers scarcely disturbed the serenity of the Roman world.
Within the boundaries of the empire the Augustan Age was an age of peace and prosperity. The
emperor, with unwearied devotion, turned to the task of ruling wisely and well his vast dominions.
He followed the example of Julius Caesar in his insistence on just government of the provincials.
[5] In Italy he put down brigandage, repaired the public highways, and planted many colonies
in unsettled districts. In Rome he established a regular police service, organized the supply
of grain and water, and continued, on a larger scale than ever, the public games. So many were
his buildings in the capital city that he could boast he had "found Rome of brick and left
it of marble." [6] Augustus was also very successful as a religious reformer. He restored numerous
temples that had fallen into decay, revived the ancient sacrifices, and celebrated with pomp
and majesty the festivals that had been neglected. These reforms gave new vigor to the Roman
state religion.

DEIFICATION OF AUGUSTUS

Even during the lifetime of Augustus worship had been offered to him by the provincials. After
his death the Senate gave him divine honors and enrolled his name among the gods. Temples rose
in every province to the deified Augustus, and altars smoked with sacrifices to him. Emperor
worship spread rapidly over the ancient world and helped to unite all classes in allegiance
to the new government. It provided a universal religion for a universal empire. Yet just at
the time when this new cult was taking root, and in the midst of the happy reign of Augustus,
there was born in Bethlehem of Judea the Christ whose religion was to overcome the worship
of the emperors and with it all other faiths of pagan antiquity. [7]

67. THE SUCCESSORS OF AUGUSTUS, 14-96 A.D.

JULIAN AND CLAUDIAN CAESARS, 14-68 A.D.

For more than half a century following the death of Augustus his place was filled by emperors
who, either by descent or adoption, claimed kinship with himself and the mighty Julius. They
are known as the Julian and Claudian Caesars. [8] Though none of these four princes had the
political ability of Augustus, two of them (Tiberius and Claudius) were excellent rulers, who
ably maintained the standards set by that great emperor. The other two (Caligula and Nero)
were vicious tyrants, the recital of whose follies and crimes occupies much space in the works
of ancient historians. Their doings and misdoings fortunately exerted little influence outside
the circle of the imperial court and the capital city. Rome itself might be disturbed by conspiracy
and bloodshed, but Italy and the provinces kept their prosperity.

CONQUEST OF BRITAIN BEGUN, 43 A.D.

The reign of Claudius was marked by the beginning of the extension of the empire over Britain.
For nearly a hundred years after Caesar's expeditions no further attempt had been made to annex
that island. But its nearness to Gaul, already thoroughly Romanized, brought the country within
the sphere of Roman influence. The thorough conquest of Britain proved to be no easy task.
It was not until the close of the first century that the island, as far north as the Scottish
Highlands, was brought under Roman sway. The province of Britannia remained a part of the empire
for more than three hundred years.

BURNING OF ROME, 64 A.D.

During Nero's reign half of Rome was laid in ashes by a great fire, which raged for a week.
But a new Rome speedily arose. It was a much finer city than the old, with wide, straight streets
instead of narrow alleys, and with houses of good stone in place of wooden hovels. Except for
the loss of the temples and public buildings, the fire was a blessing in disguise.

FLAVIAN CAESARS, 69-96 A.D.

After the death of Nero the dynasty that traced its descent from Julius and Augustus became
extinct. There was no one who could legally claim the vacant throne. The Senate, which in theory
had the appointment of a successor, was too weak to exercise its powers. The imperial guard
and the legions on the frontiers placed their own candidates in the field. The Roman world
fell into anarchy, and Italy became once more the seat of civil war. The throne was finally
seized by the able general, Flavius Vespasianus, supported by the armies of the East. He and
his two sons, Titus and Domitian, are called the Flavian Caesars.

CAPTURE OF JERUSALEM, 70 A.D.

During the reign of Vespasian a revolt of the Jews was crushed, and Jerusalem was captured
by Titus, Vespasian's son. It is said, doubtless with exaggeration, that one million Jews perished
in the siege, the most awful that history records. The Holy City, together with the Temple,
was destroyed, and a Roman camp was pitched upon the spot. We may still see in Rome the splendid
arch that commemorates this tragic event. [9]

ERUPTION OF VESUVIUS, 79 A.D.

The reign of Titus is chiefly memorable for the destruction of Pompeii and Herculaneum, two
cites on the bay of Naples. After long inactivity the volcano of Vesuvius suddenly belched
forth torrents of liquid lava and mud, followed by a rain of ashes. Pompeii was covered to
a depth of about fifteen feet by the falling cinders. Herculaneum was overwhelmed in a sea
of sulphurous mud and lava to a depth of eighty feet in many places. The cities were completely
entombed, and in time even their location was forgotten. Modern excavations have disclosed
a large part of Pompeii, with its streets, shops, baths, temples, and theaters. The visitor
there gains a vivid impression of Roman life during the first century of our era. [10]

68. THE "GOOD EMPERORS," 96-180 A.D.

THE ANTONINE CAESARS

The five rulers--Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, and Marcus Aurelius--whose reigns
cover the greater part of the second century, are sometimes called the Antonine Caesars, because
two of them bore the name Antoninus. They are better known as the "Good Emperors," a title
which well describes them. Under their just and beneficent government the empire reached its
greatest prosperity.

TRAJAN THE CONQUEROR

The emperor Trajan rivaled Julius Caesar in military ability and enlarged the Roman world to
the widest limits it was ever to attain. His first conquests were in Europe and resulted in
the annexation of Dacia, an extensive territory north of the Danube. Thousands of colonists
settled in Dacia and spread everywhere the language and arts of Rome. Its modern name (Rumania)
bears witness to Rome's abiding influence there. Trajan's campaigns in Asia had less importance,
though in appearance they were more splendid. He drove the Parthians from Armenia and conquered
the Tigris- Euphrates valley. To hold in subjection such distant regions only increased the
difficulty of guarding the frontiers. Trajan's successor, Hadrian, at once abandoned them.

HADRIAN THE ADMINISTRATOR

Hadrian distinguished himself as an administrator. He may be compared with Augustus in his
love of peace and in his care for the interests of the provincials. Hadrian made two long journeys
throughout the Roman world. On the frontiers he built fortresses and walls, in the provinces
he raised baths, aqueducts, theaters, and temples. Scarcely a city throughout the empire lacked
some monument to his generosity. Hadrian left behind him the memory of a prince whose life
was devoted to the public welfare--the first servant of the state.

MARCUS AURELIUS, THE PHILOSOPHER ON THE THRONE

The last of the "Good Emperors," Marcus Aurelius, was a thinker and a student, but he enjoyed
little opportunity for meditation. His reign was filled with an almost uninterrupted series
of campaigns against the Parthians on the Euphrates and the Germans on the Danube and the Rhine.
These wars revealed the weakness of the frontiers and rapidly growing strength of the barbarians.
After the death of Marcus Aurelius the empire entered on its downward course. But before passing
to this period of our study, we may take a survey of the world under Roman rule, during the
two centuries between Augustus and Marcus Aurelius.

69. THE PROVINCES OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE

THE STANDING ARMY

The Roman Empire, at its widest extent in the second century, included forty-three provinces.
They were protected against Germans, Parthians and other foes by twenty-five legions, numbering
with the auxiliary forces, about three hundred thousand men. This standing army was one of
Rome's most important agencies for the spread of her civilization over barbarian lands. Its
membership was drawn largely from the border provinces, often from the very countries where
the soldiers' camps were fixed. Though the army became less and less Roman in blood, it always
kept in character and spirit the best traditions of Rome. The long intervals of peace were
not passed by the soldiers in idleness. They built the great highways that penetrated every
region of the empire, spanned the streams with bridges, raised dikes and aqueducts, and taught
the border races the arts of civilization. It was due, finally, to the labors of the legionaries,
that the most exposed parts of the frontiers were provided with an extensive system of walls
and ramparts.

THE ROMAN ROADS

The Roman system of roads received its great extension during the imperial age. The principal
trunk lines began at the gates of Rome and radiated thence to every province. Along these highways
sped the couriers of the Caesars, carrying dispatches and making, by means of relays of horses,
as much as one hundred and fifty miles a day. The roads resounded to the tramp of the legionaries
passing to their stations on the distant frontier. Travelers by foot, horseback, or litter
journeyed on them from land to land, employing maps which described routes and distances. Traders
used them for the transport of merchandise. Roman roads, in short, were the railways of antiquity.
[11]

THE PAX ROMANA

In her roads and fortifications, in the living rampart of her legions, Rome long found security.
Except for the districts conquered by Trajan but abandoned by Hadrian, [12] the empire during
this period did not lose a province. For more than two hundred years, throughout an area as
large as the United States, the civilized world rested under what an ancient writer calls "the
immense majesty of the Roman peace." [13]

EXTENSION OF ROMAN CITIZENSHIP

The grant of Roman citizenship to all Italians after the Social War [14] only increased for
a time the contrast between Italy and the provinces. But even before the fall of the republic
Caesar's legislation had begun the work of uniting the Roman and the provincial. [15] More
and more the emperors followed in his footsteps. The extension of Roman citizenship was a gradual
process covering two centuries. It was left for the emperor Caracalla, early in the third century,
to take the final step. In 212 A.D. he issued an edict which bestowed citizenship on all freeborn
inhabitants of the empire. This famous edict completed the work, begun so many centuries before,
of Romanizing the ancient world.

PRIVILEGES OF ROMAN CITIZENS

The grant of citizenship, though it increased the burden of taxation, brought no slight advantage
to those who possessed it. A Roman citizen could not be maltreated with impunity or punished
without a legal trial before Roman courts. If accused in a capital case, he could always protect
himself against an unjust decision by an "appeal to Caesar", that is, to the emperor at Rome.
St. Paul did this on one occasion when on trial for his life. [16] Wherever he lived, a Roman
citizen enjoyed, both for his person and his property, the protection of Roman law.

70. THE ROMAN LAW AND THE LATIN LANGUAGE

IMPROVEMENT OF ROMAN LAW

The Romans were the most legal-minded people of antiquity. It was their mission to give laws
to the world. Almost at the beginning of the republic they framed the code of the Twelve Tables,
[17] which long remained the basis of their jurisprudence. This code, however, was so harsh,
technical, and brief that it could not meet the needs of a progressive state. The Romans gradually
improved their legal system, especially after they began to rule over conquered nations. The
disputes which arose between citizens and subjects were decided by the praetors or provincial
governors in accordance with what seemed to them to be principles of justice and equity. These
principles gradually found a place in Roman law, together with many rules and observances of
foreign peoples. Roman law in this way tended to take over and absorb all that was best in
ancient jurisprudence.

CHARACTER OF ROMAN LAW

Thus, as the extension of the citizenship carried the principles and practice of Roman law
to every quarter of the empire, the spirit of that law underwent an entire change. It became
exact, impartial, liberal, humane. It limited the use of torture to force confession from persons
accused of crime. It protected the child against a father's tyranny. It provided that a master
who killed a slave should be punished as a murderer, and even taught that all men are originally
free by the law of nature and therefore that slavery is contrary to natural right. Justice
it defined as "the steady and abiding purpose to give every man that which is his own." [18]
Roman law, which began as the rude code of a primitive people, ended as the most refined and
admirable system of jurisprudence ever framed by man. This law, as we shall see later, has
passed from ancient Rome to modern Europe. [19]

LATIN IN ITALY

The conquest by Latin of the languages of the world is almost as interesting and important
a story as the conquest by Rome of the nations of the world. At the beginning of Latin in Roman
history Latin was the speech of only the Italy people of Latium. Beyond the limits of Latium
Latin came into contact with the many different languages spoken in early Italy. Some of them,
such as Greek and Etruscan, soon disappeared from Italy after Roman expansion, but those used
by native Italian peoples showed more power of resistance. It was not until the last century
B.C. that Latin was thoroughly established in the central and southern parts of the peninsula.
After the Social War the Italian peoples became citizens of Rome, and with Roman citizenship
went the use of the Latin tongue.

LATIN IN THE WESTERN PROVINCES

The Romans carried their language to the barbarian peoples of the West, as they had carried
it to Italy. Their missionaries were colonists, merchants, soldiers, and public officials.
The Latin spoken by them was eagerly taken up by the rude, unlettered natives, who tried to
make themselves as Roman as possible in dress, customs, and speech. This provincial Latin was
not simply the language of the upper classes; the common people themselves used it freely,
as we know from thousands of inscriptions found in western and central Europe. In the countries
which now make up Spain, France, Switzerland, southern Austria, England, and North Africa,
the old national tongues were abandoned for the Latin of Rome.

ROMANCE LANGUAGES

The decline of the Roman Empire did not bring about the downfall of the Latin language in the
West. It became the basis of the so-called Romance languages--French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese,
and Rumanian--which arose in the Middle Ages out of the spoken Latin of the common people.
Even our English language, which comes to us from the speech of the Germanic invaders of Britain,
contains so many words of Latin origin that we can scarcely utter a sentence without using
some of them. The rule of Rome has passed away; the language of Rome still remains to enrich
the intellectual life of mankind.

71. THE MUNICIPALITIES OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE

PREVALENCE OF CITY LIFE

The world under Roman rule was a world of cities. Some had earlier been native settlements,
such as those in Gaul before the Roman conquest. Others were the splendid Hellenistic cities
in the East. [20] Many more were of Roman origin, arising from the colonies and fortified camps
in which citizens and soldiers had settled. [21] Where Rome did not find cities, she created them.

SOME IMPORTANT CITIES

Not only were the cities numerous, but many of them, even when judged by modern standards,
reached great size. Rome was the largest, her population being estimated at from one to two
millions. Alexandria came next with more than half a million people. Syracuse was the third
metropolis of the empire. Italy contained such important towns as Verona, Milan, and Ravenna.
In Gaul were Marseilles, Nimes, Bordeaux, Lyons--all cities with a continuous existence to
the present day. In Britain York and London were seats of commerce, Chester and Lincoln were
military colonies, and Bath was celebrated then, as now, for its medicinal waters. Carthage
and Corinth had risen in new splendor from their ashes. Athens was still the home of Greek
art and Greek culture. Asia included such ancient and important centers as Pergamum, Smyrna,
Ephesus, Rhodes, and Antioch. The student who reads in his New Testament the Acts of the Apostles
will get a vivid impression of some of these great capitals.

APPEARANCE OF THE CITIES

Every municipality was a Rome in miniature. It had its forum and senate- house, its temples,
theaters, and baths, its circus for racing, and its amphitheater for gladiatorial combats.
Most of the municipalities enjoyed an abundant supply of water, and some had good sewer systems.
The larger towns had well-paved, though narrow, streets. Pompeii, a small place of scarcely
thirty thousand inhabitants, still exists to give us an idea of the appearance of one of these
ancient cities. And what we find at Pompeii was repeated on a more splendid scale in hundreds
of places from the Danube to the Nile, from Britain to Arabia.

CITY GOVERNMENT

The municipalities of Roman origin copied the government of Rome itself. [22] Each city had
a council, or senate, and a popular assembly which chose the magistrates. These officials were
generally rich men; they received no salary, and in fact had to pay a large sum on entering
office. Local politics excited the keenest interest. Many of the inscriptions found on the
walls of Pompeii are election placards recommending particular candidates for office. Women
sometimes took part in political contests. Distributions of grain, oil, and money were made
to needy citizens, in imitation of the bad Roman practice. There were public banquets, imposing
festivals, wild-beast hunts, and bloody contests of gladiators, like those at Rome.

SURVIVAL OF THE ROMAN MUNICIPAL SYSTEM

The busy, throbbing life in these countless centers of the Roman world has long since been
stilled. The cities themselves, in many instances, have utterly disappeared. Yet the forms
of municipal government, together with the Roman idea of a free, self-governing city, never
wholly died out. Some of the most important cities which flourished in southern and western
Europe during the later Middle Ages preserved clear traces of their ancient Roman origin.

72. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS IN THE FIRST AND SECOND CENTURIES

PROMOTION OF COMMERCE

The first two centuries of our era formed the golden age of Roman commerce. The emperors fostered
it in many ways. Augustus and his successors kept the Mediterranean free from pirates, built
lighthouses and improved harbors, policed the highways, and made travel by land both speedy
and safe. An imperial currency [23] replaced the various national coinages with their limited
circulation. The vexatious import and export duties, levied by different countries and cities
on foreign produce, were swept away. Free trade flourished between the cities and provinces
of the Roman world.

PRINCIPAL TRADE ROUTES

Roman commerce followed, in general, the routes which Phoenicians had discovered centuries
before. After the annexation of Gaul the rivers of that country became channels of trade between
western Europe and Italy. The conquest of the districts north and south of the Danube opened
up an important route between central Europe and the Mediterranean. Imports from the far eastern
countries came by caravan through Asia to ports on the Black Sea. The water routes led by way
of the Persian Gulf to the great Syrian cities of Antioch and Palmyra and, by way of the Red
Sea, to Alexandria on the Nile. From these thriving commercial centers products were shipped
to every region of the empire. [24]

LOCAL TRADING AT ROME

The importation and disposal of foreign goods at Rome furnished employment for many thousands
of traders. There were great wholesale merchants whose warehouses stored grain and all kinds
of merchandise. There were also many retail shopkeepers. They might be sometimes the slaves
or freedmen of a wealthy noble who preferred to keep in the background. Sometimes they were
men of free birth. The feeling that petty trade was unworthy of a citizen, though strong in
republican days, tended to disappear under the empire.

FREE LABORERS AT ROME

The slaves at Rome, like those at Athens, [25] carried on many industrial tasks. We must not
imagine, however, that all the manual labor of the city was performed by bondmen. The number
of slaves even tended to decline, when there were no more border wars to yield captives for
the slave markets. The growing custom of emancipation worked in the same direction. We find
in this period a large body of free laborers, not only in the capital city, but in all parts
of the empire.

THE GUILDS

The workmen engaged in a particular calling frequently formed clubs, or guilds. [26] There
were guilds of weavers, shoe-makers, jewelers, painters, musicians, and even of gladiators.
These associations were not organized for the purpose of securing higher wages and shorter
hours by strikes or threat of strikes. They seem to have existed chiefly for social and religious
purposes. Each guild had its clubhouse for official meetings and banquets. Each guild had its
special deity, such as Vesta, the fire goddess, for bakers, and Bacchus, the wine god, for
innkeepers. Every year the guildsmen held a festival, in honor of their patron, and marched
through the streets with banners and the emblems of their trade. Nearly all the guilds had
as one main object the provision of a proper funeral and tomb for deceased members. The humble
laborer found some consolation in the thought that he belonged to a club of friends and fellow
workers, who after death would give him decent burial and keep his memory green.

LIFE OF THE WORKING CLASSES

Free workingmen throughout the Roman world appear to have led reasonably happy lives. They
were not driven or enslaved by their employers or forced to labor for long hours in grimy,
unwholesome factories. Slums existed, but no sweatshops. If wages were low, so also was the
cost of living. Wine, oil, and wheat flour were cheap. The mild climate made heavy clothing
unnecessary and permitted an outdoor life. The public baths-- great clubhouses--stood open
to every one who could pay a trifling fee. [27] Numerous holidays, celebrated with games and
shows, brightened existence. On the whole we may conclude that working people at Rome and in
the provinces enjoyed greater comfort during this period than had ever been their lot in previous
ages.

GREAT FORTUNES

It was an age of millionaires. There had been rich men, such as Crassus, [28] during the last
century of the republic; their numbers increased and their fortunes rose during the first century
of the empire. The philosopher Seneca, a tutor of Nero, is said to have made twelve million
dollars within four years by the emperor's favor. Narcissus, the secretary of Claudius, made
sixteen million dollars--the largest Roman fortune on record. This sum must be multiplied four
or five times to find its modern equivalent, since in antiquity interest rates were higher
and the purchasing power of money was greater than to-day. Such private fortunes are surpassed
only by those of the present age.

LUXURY AND EXTRAVAGANCE

The heaping-up of riches in the hands of a few brought its natural consequence in luxury and
extravagance. The palaces of the wealthy, with their gardens, baths, picture galleries, and
other features, were costly to build and costly to keep up. The money not lavished by a noble
on his town house could be easily sunk on his villas in the country. All Italy, from the bay
of Naples, to the foot of the Alps, was dotted with elegant residences, having flower gardens,
game preserves, fishponds, and artificial lakes. Much senseless waste occurred at banquets
and entertainments. Vast sums were spent on vessels of gold and silver, jewelry, clothing,
and house furnishings. Even funerals and tombs required heavy outlays. A capitalist of imperial
Rome could get rid of a fortune in selfish indulgences almost as readily as any modern millionaire
not blessed with a refined taste or with public spirit.

SOME SOCIAL EVILS

Some of the customs of the time appear especially shocking. The brutal gladiatorial games [29]
were a passion with every one, from the emperor to his lowest subject. Infanticide was a general
practice. Marriage grew to be a mere civil contract, easily made and easily broken. Common
as divorce had become, the married state was regarded as undesirable. Augustus vainly made
laws to encourage matrimony and discourage celibacy. Suicide, especially among the upper classes,
was astonishingly frequent. No one questioned another's right to leave this life at pleasure.
The decline of the earlier paganism left many men without a deep religious faith to combat
the growing doubt and worldliness of the age.

BRIGHTER ASPECTS OF ROMAN SOCIETY

Yet this dark picture needs correction at many points. It may be questioned whether the vice,
luxury, and wickedness of ancient Rome, Antioch, or Alexandria much exceeded what our great
modern capitals can show, During this period, moreover, many remarkable improvements took place
in social life and manners. There was an increasing kindliness and charity. The weak and the
infirm were better treated. The education of the poor was encouraged by the founding of free
schools. Wealthy citizens of the various towns lavished their fortunes on such public works
as baths, aqueducts, and temples, for the benefit of all classes. Even the slaves were much
better treated. Imperial laws aimed to check the abuses of cruelty, overwork, and neglect,
and philosophers recommended to masters the exercise of gentleness and mercy toward slaves.
In fact, the first and second centuries of our era were marked by a great growth of the humanitarian
spirit.

73. THE GRAECO-ROMAN WORLD

THE NEW COSMOPOLITANISM

Just as the conquests of Alexander, by uniting the Orient to Greece, produced a Graeco-Oriental
civilization, so now the expansion of Rome over the Mediterranean formed another world-wide
culture, in which both Greek and Roman elements met and mingled. A new sense of cosmopolitanism
arose in place of the old civic or national patriotism.

UNIFYING AND CIVILIZING FORCES
 This cosmopolitan feeling was the outcome of those unifying and
civilizing forces which the imperial system set at work. The extension of
Roman citizenship broke down the old distinction between the citizens and
the subjects of Rome. The development of Roman law carried its principles
of justice and equity to the remotest regions. The spread of the Latin
language provided the western half of the empire with a speech as
universal there as Greek was in the East. Trade and travel united the
provinces with one another and with Rome. The worship of the Caesars
dimmed the luster of all local worships and kept constantly before men's
minds the idea of Rome and of her mighty emperors. Last, but not least
important, was the fusion of alien peoples through intermarriage with
Roman soldiers and colonists. "How many settlements," exclaims the
philosopher Seneca, "have been planted in every province! Wherever the
Roman conquers, there he dwells." [30]

MONUMENTS OF ROMAN RULE

The best evidence of Rome's imperial rule is found in the monuments she raised in every quarter
of the ancient world. Some of the grandest ruins of antiquity are not in the capital city itself,
or even in Italy, but in Spain, France, England, Greece, Switzerland, Asia Minor, Syria, and
North Africa. Among these are Hadrian's Wall in Britain, the splendid aqueduct known as the
Pont du Gard near Nimes in southern France, the beautiful temple called La Maison Carree in
the same city, the Olympieum at Athens, and the temple of the Sun at Baalbec in Syria Thus
the lonely hilltops, the desolate desert sands, the mountain fastnesses of three continents
bear witness even now to the widespreading sway of Rome.

ROMANIZATION OF EAST AND WEST

The civilized world took on the stamp and impress of Rome. The East, indeed, remained Greek
in language and feeling, but even there Roman law and government prevailed, Roman roads traced
their unerring course, and Roman architects erected majestic monuments. The West became completely
Roman. North Africa, Spain, Gaul, distant Dacia, and Britain were the seats of populous cities,
where the Latin language was spoken and Roman customs were followed. From them came the emperors.
They furnished some of the most eminent men of letters. Their schools of grammar and rhetoric
attracted students from Rome itself. Thus unconsciously, but none the less surely, local habits
and manners, national religions and tongues, provincial institutions and ways of thinking disappeared
from the ancient world.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate the additions to Roman territory: during the reign of Augustus,
31 B.C.-14 A.D.; during the period 14-180 A.D.

2. On an outline map indicate ten important cities of the Roman Empire.

3. Connect the proper events with the following dates: 79 A.D.; 180 A.D.; and 14 A.D.

4. Whom do you consider the greater man, Julius Caesar or Augustus? Give reasons for your answer.

5. Compare the Augustan Age at Rome with the Age of Pericles at Athens.

6. What is the Monumentum Ancyranum and its historic importance (illustration Monumentum Ancyranum,
section 66. Augustus, 31 B.C.-l4 A.D., topic The Augustan Age)?

7. How did the worship of the Caesars connect itself with ancestor worship?

8. In the reign of what Roman emperor was Jesus born? In whose reign was he crucified?

9. How did the "year of anarchy" after Nero's death exhibit a weakness in the imperial system?

10. How many provinces existed under Trajan?

11. What modern countries are included within the limits of the Roman Empire in the age of Trajan?

12. Compare the extent of the Roman Empire under Trajan with (a) the empire of Alexander; and
(b) the empire of Darius.

13. Give the Roman names of Spain, Italy, Gaul, Germany, Britain, Scotland, and Ireland.

14. Contrast the Roman armies under the empire with the standing armies of modern Europe.

15. Trace on the map, page 205, the Roman roads in Britain.

16. "To the Roman city the empire was political death; to the provinces it was the beginning
of new life." Comment on this statement.

17. Why should Rome have made a greater success of her imperial policy than either Athens or
Sparta?

18. Compare Roman liberality in extending the franchise with the similar policy displayed by
the United States.

19. Compare the freedom of trade between the provinces of the Roman Empire with that between
the states of the American Union.

20. On the map, page 48, trace the trade routes during imperial times.

21. Compare as civilizing forces the Roman and the Persian empires.

22. What was the Pax Romana? What is the Pax Britannica?

23. Compare the Romanization of the ancient world with that process of Americanization which
is going on in the United States to-day.

24. Explain this statement: "The Roman Empire is the lake in which all the streams of ancient
history lose themselves and which all the streams of modern history flow out of."

25. "Republican Rome had little to do, either by precept or example, with the modern life of
Europe, Imperial Rome everything."

[2] Hence our word "prince".

[3] See page 184.

[4] The provinces of Pannonia, Noricum, and Raetia. See the map facing page 184.

[5] See page 187.

[6] For a description of ancient Rome see pages 292-296.

[7] Jesus was born probably in 4 B.C., the last year of the reign of Herod, whom the triumvirs,
Antony and Octavian, had placed on the throne of Judea in 37 B.C.

[8] A Roman emperor was generally called "Caesar" by the provincials. See, for example, Matthew,
xxii, 17-21, or Acts, xxv, 10-12. This title survives in the German Kaiser and perhaps in the
Russian Tsar or Czar.

[9] In 131 A.D., during the reign of the emperor Hadrian, the Jews once more broke out in revolt.
Jerusalem, which had risen from its ruins, was again destroyed by the Romans, and the plow
was passed over the foundations of the Temple. From Roman times to the present the Jews have
been a people without a country.

[10] See Bulwer-Lytton's novel, The Last Days of Pompeii.

[11] See the map on page 205 for the system of Roman roads in Britain.

[12] See page 200.

[13] Pliny, Natural History, xxvii, 1.

[14] See page 179.

[15] See page 187.

[16] See Acts, XXV, 9-12.

[17] See page 151.

[18] Institutes, bk. i, tit. i.

[19] See page 331.

[20] See page 127.

[21] Several English cities, such as Lancaster, Leicester, Manchester, and Chester, betray
in their names their origin in the Roman castra, or camp.

[22] See page 149.

[23] For illustrations of Roman coins see the plate facing page 134.

[24] See the map on page 48.

[25] See page 107.

[26] Latin collegia, whence our "college."

[27] See pages 263 and 285.

[28] See page 183.

[29] See page 267.

[30] Seneca, Minor Dialogues, XI, 7. It formed, in general, a period of decline. The very existence
of the empire was threatened, both from within and from without. The armies on the frontiers
often set up their favorite leaders as contestants for the throne, thus provoking civil war.
Ambitious governors of distant provinces sometimes revolted against a weak or unpopular emperor
and tried to establish independent states. The Germans took advantage of the unsettled condition
of affairs to make constant inroads. About the middle of the third century it became necessary
to surrender to them the great province of Dacia, which Trajan had won. [1] A serious danger
also appeared in the distant East. Here the Persians, having overcome the Parthians, [2] endeavored
to recover from Roman hands the Asiatic provinces which had once belonged to the old Persian
realm. Though the Persians failed to make any permanent conquest of Roman territory, their
constant attacks weakened the empire at the very time when the northern barbarians had again
become a menace.

"IMPERIAL PHANTOMS"

The rulers who occupied the throne during the first half of this troubled period are commonly
known as the "Soldier Emperors," because so many of them owed their position to the swords
of the legionaries. Emperor after emperor followed in quick succession, to enjoy a brief reign
and then to perish in some sudden insurrection. Within a single year (237-238 A.D.) six rulers
were chosen, worshiped, and then murdered by their troops "You little know," said one of these
imperial phantoms, "what a poor thing it is to be an emperor." [3]

POLITICAL SITUATION IN 284 A.D.

The close of the third century thus found the empire engaged in a struggle for existence. No
part of the Roman world had escaped the ravages of war. The fortification of the capital city
by the emperor Aurelian was itself a testimony to the altered condition of affairs. The situation
was desperate, yet not hopeless. Under an able ruler, such as Aurelian, Rome proved to be still
strong enough to repel her foes. It was the work of the even more capable Diocletian to establish
the empire on so solid a foundation that it endured with almost undiminished strength for another
hundred years.

75. THE "ABSOLUTE EMPERORS," 284-395 A.D.

REIGN OF DIOCLETIAN, 284-305 A.D.

Diocletian, whose reign is one of the most illustrious in Roman history, entered the army as
a common soldier, rose to high command, and fought his way to the throne. A strong, ambitious
man, Diocletian resolutely set himself to the task of remaking the Roman government. His success
in this undertaking entitles him to rank, as a statesman and administrator, with Augustus.

WEAKNESSES IN THE IMPERIAL SYSTEM

The reforms of Diocletian were meant to remedy those weaknesses in the imperial system disclosed
by the disasters of the preceding century. In the first place, experience showed that the empire
was unwieldy. There were the distant frontiers on the Rhine, Danube, and Euphrates to be guarded;
there were all the provinces to be governed. A single ruler, however able and energetic, had
more than he could do. In the second place, the succession to the imperial throne was uncertain.
Now an emperor named his successor, now the Senate elected him, and now the swords of the legionaries
raised him to the purple. Such an unsettled state of affairs constantly invited those struggles
between rival pretenders which had so nearly brought the empire to destruction.

DIOCLETIAN'S REFORMS

Diocletian began his reforms by adopting a scheme for "partnership emperors." He shared the
Roman world with a trusted lieutenant named Maximian. Each was to be an Augustus, with all
the honors of an emperor. Diocletian ruled the East; Maximian ruled the West. Further partnership
soon seemed advisable, and so each Augustus chose a younger associate, or Caesar, to aid him
in the government and at his death or abdication to become his heir. Diocletian also remodeled
the provincial system. The entire empire, including Italy, was divided into more than one hundred
provinces. They were grouped into thirteen dioceses and these, in turn, into four prefectures.
[4] This reform much lessened the authority of the provincial governor, who now ruled over
a small district and had to obey the vicar of his diocese.

THE NEW ABSOLUTISM

The emperors, from Diocletian onward, were autocrats. They bore the proud title of Dominus
("Lord"). They were treated as gods. Everything that touched their persons was sacred. They
wore a diadem of pearls and gorgeous robes of silk and gold, like those of Asiatic monarchs.
They filled their palaces with a crowd of fawning, flattering nobles, and busied themselves
with an endless round of stately and impressive ceremonials. Hitherto a Roman emperor had been
an imperator, [5] the head of an army. Now he became a king, to be greeted, not with the old
military salute, but with the bent knee and the prostrate form of adoration. Such pomps and
vanities, which former Romans would have thought degrading, helped to inspire reverence among
the servile subjects of a later age. If it was the aim of Augustus to disguise, it was the
aim of Diocletian to display, the unbounded power of a Roman emperor.

CONSTANTINE, SOLE EMPEROR, 324-337 A.D.

There can be little doubt that Diocletian's reforms helped to prolong the existence of the
empire. In one respect, however, they must be pronounced a failure. They did not end the disputes
about the succession. Only two years after the abdication of Diocletian there were six rival
pretenders for the title of Augustus. Their dreary struggles continued, until at length two
emperors were left--Constantine in the West, Licinius in the East. After a few years of joint
rule another civil war made Constantine supreme. The Roman world again had a single master.

REIGN OF CONSTANTINE

Constantine was an able general and a wise statesman. Two events of lasting importance have
made his reign memorable. It was Constantine who recognized Christianity as one of the religions
of the empire and thus paved the way for the triumph of that faith over the ancient paganism.
His work in this connection will be discussed presently. It was Constantine, also, who established
a new capital for the Roman world at Byzantium [6] on the Bosporus. He christened it "New Rome,"
but it soon took the emperor's name as Constantinople, the "City of Constantine." [7]

FOUNDATION OF CONSTANTINOPLE

Several good reasons could be urged for the removal of the world's metropolis from the Tiber
to the Bosporus. The Roman Empire was ceasing to be one empire. Constantine wanted a great
city for the eastern half to balance Rome in the western half. Again, Constantinople, far more
than Rome, was the military center of the empire. Rome lay too far from the vulnerable frontiers;
Constantinople occupied a position about equidistant from the Germans on the lower Danube and
the Persians on the Euphrates. Finally, Constantine believed that Christianity, which he wished
to become the prevailing religion, would encounter less opposition and criticism in his new
city than at Rome, with its pagan atmosphere and traditions. Constantinople was to be not simply
a new seat of government but also distinctively a Christian capital. Such it remained for more
than eleven centuries. [8]

AFTER CONSTANTINE, 337-395 A.D.

After the death of Constantine the Roman world again entered on a period of disorder. The inroads
of the Germans across the Danube and the Rhine threatened the European provinces of the empire
with dissolution. The outlook in the Asiatic provinces, overrun by the Persians, was no less
gloomy. Meanwhile the eastern and western halves of the empire tended more and more to grow
apart. The separation between the two had become well marked by the close of the fourth century.
After the death of the emperor Theodosius (395 A.D.) there came to be in fact, if not in name,
a Roman Empire in the East and a Roman Empire in the West.

POLITICAL SITUATION IN 395 A.D.

More than four hundred years had now elapsed since the battle of Actium made Octavian supreme
in the Roman world. If we except the abandonment of Trajan's conquests beyond the Danube and
the Euphrates, [9] no part of the huge empire had as yet succumbed to its enemies. The subject
peoples, during these four centuries, had not tried to overthrow the empire or to withdraw
from its protection. The Roman state, men believed, would endure forever. Yet the times were
drawing nigh when the old order of things was to be broken up; when barbarian invaders were
to seize the fairest provinces as their own; and when new kingdoms, ruled by men of Germanic
speech, were to arise in lands that once obeyed Rome.

76. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS IN THE THIRD AND FOURTH CENTURIES

THE "FALL" OF ROME

Rome, it has been said, was not built in a day; the rule of Rome was not destroyed in a day.
When we speak of the "fall" of Rome, we have in mind, not a violent catastrophe which suddenly
plunged the civilized world into ruin, but rather the slow and gradual decay of ancient society
throughout the basin of the Mediterranean. This decay set in long before the Germans and the
Persians became a serious danger to the empire. It would have continued, doubtless, had there
been no Germans and Persians to break through the frontiers and destroy. The truth seems to
be that, during the third and fourth centuries of our era, classical civilization, like an
overtrained athlete, had grown "stale."

DEPOPULATION DUE TO THE SLAVE SYSTEM

It is not possible to set forth all the forces which century after century had been sapping
the strength of the state. The most obvious element of weakness was the want of men to fill
the armies and to cultivate the fields. The slave system seems to have been partly responsible
for this depopulation. The peasant on his little homestead could not compete with the wealthy
noble whose vast estates were worked by gangs of slaves. The artisan could not support himself
and his family on the pittance that kept his slave competitor alive. Peasants and artisans
gradually drifted into the cities, where the public distributions of grain, wine, and oil assured
them of a living with little expense and almost without exertion. In both Italy and the provinces
there was a serious decline in the number of free farmers and free workingmen.

"RACE SUICIDE"

But slavery was not the only cause of depopulation. There was a great deal of what has been
called "race suicide" in the old Roman world. Well-to-do people, who could easily support large
families, often refused to be burdened with them. Childlessness, however, was not confined
to the wealthy, since the poorer classes, crowded in the huge lodging houses of the cities,
had no real family life. Roman emperors, who saw how difficult it was to get a sufficient number
of recruits for the army, and how whole districts were going to waste for lack of people to
cultivate them, tried to repopulate the empire by force of law. They imposed penalties for
the childlessness and celibacy of the rich, and founded institutions for the rearing of children,
that the poor might not fear to raise large families. Such measures were scarcely successful.
"Race suicide" continued during pagan times and even during the Christian age.

LOSS OF REVENUES

The next most obvious element of weakness was the shrinkage of the revenues. The empire suffered
from want of money, as well as from want of men. To meet the heavy cost of the luxurious court,
to pay the salaries of the swarms of public officials, to support the idle populace in the
great cities required a vast annual income. But just when public expenditures were rising by
leaps and bounds, it became harder and harder to secure sufficient revenue. Smaller numbers
meant fewer taxpayers. Fewer taxpayers meant a heavier burden on those who survived to pay.

ECONOMIC RUIN

These two forces--the decline in population and the decline in wealth-- worked together to
produce economic ruin. It is no wonder, therefore, that in province after province large tracts
of land went out of cultivation, that the towns decayed, and that commerce and manufactures
suffered an appalling decline. "Hard times" settled on the Roman world.

INFLUENCE OF CHRISTIANITY

Doubtless still other forces were at work to weaken the state and make it incapable of further
resistance to the barbarians. Among such forces we must reckon Christianity itself. By the
close of the fourth century Christianity had become the religion of the empire. The new faith,
as we shall soon see, helped, not to support, but rather to undermine, pagan society.

77. THE PREPARATION FOR CHRISTIANITY

DECLINE OF PAGANISM

Several centuries before the rise of Christianity many Greek thinkers began to feel a growing
dissatisfaction with the crude faith that had come down to them from prehistoric times. They
found it more and more difficult to believe in the Olympian deities, who were fashioned like
themselves and had all the faults of mortal men. [10] An adulterous Zeus, a bloodthirsty Ares,
and a scolding Hera, as Homer represents them, were hardly divinities that a cultured Greek
could love and worship. For educated Romans, also, the rites and ceremonies of the ancient
religion came gradually to lose their meaning. The worship of the Roman gods had never appealed
to the emotions. Now it tended to pass into the mere mechanical repetition of prayers and sacrifices.
Even the worship of the Caesars, [11] which did much to hold the empire together, failed to
satisfy the spiritual wants of mankind. It made no appeal to the moral nature; it brought no
message, either of fear or hope, about a future world and a life beyond the grave.

STOICISM

During these centuries a system of Greek philosophy, called Stoicism, gained many adherents
among the Romans. Any one who will read the Stoic writings, such as those of the noble emperor,
Marcus Aurelius, [12] will see how nearly Christian was the Stoic faith. It urged men to forgive
injuries--to "bear and forbear." It preached the brotherhood of man. It expressed a humble
and unfaltering reliance on a divine Providence. To many persons of refinement Stoicism became
a real religion. But since Stoic philosophy could reach and influence only the educated classes,
it could not become a religion for all sorts and conditions of men.

THE ELEUSINIAN MYSTERIES

Many Greeks found a partial satisfaction of their religious longings in secret rites called
mysteries. Of these the most important grew up at Eleusis, [13] a little Attic town thirteen
miles from Athens. They were connected with the worship of Demeter, goddess of vegetation and
of the life of nature. The celebration of the Eleusinian mysteries came in September and lasted
nine days. When the candidates for admission to the secret rites were worked up to a state
of religious excitement, they entered a brilliantly lighted hall and witnessed a passion play
dealing with the legend of Demeter. They seem to have had no direct moral instruction but saw,
instead, living pictures and pantomimes which represented the life beyond the grave and held
out to them the promise of a blessed lot in another world. As an Athenian orator said, "Those
who have shared this initiation possess sweeter hopes about death and about the whole of life."
[14]

INFLUENCE OF THE MYSTERIES

The Eleusinian mysteries, though unknown in the Homeric Age, were already popular before the
epoch of the Persian wars. They became a Panhellenic festival open to all Greeks, women as
well as men, slaves as well as freemen. The privilege of membership was later extended to Romans.
During the first centuries of our era the influence of the mysteries increased, as faith in
the Olympian religion declined. They formed one of the last strongholds of paganism and endured
till the triumph of Christianity in the Roman world.

ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE ROMAN EMPIRE

The Asiatic conquests of Alexander, followed in later centuries by the extension of Roman rule
over the eastern coasts of the Mediterranean, brought the classical peoples into contact with
new religions which had arisen in the Orient. Slaves, soldiers, traders, and travelers carried
the eastern faiths to the West, where they speedily won many followers. Even before the downfall
of the republic the deities of Asia Minor, Egypt, and Persia had found a home at Rome. Under
the empire many men and women were attracted to their worship.

MITHRA

Perhaps the most remarkable of the Asiatic religions was Mithraism. Mithra first appears as
a Persian sun god, the leader of Ahuramazda's hosts in the ceaseless struggle against the forces
of darkness and evil. [15] As a god of light Mithra was also a god of truth and purity. His
worship, spreading over the length and breadth of the Roman Empire, became the noblest of all
pagan faiths. Men saw in Mithra a Lord and Giver of Life, who protected the weak and miserable,
cleansed the sinner, conquered death, and procured for his faithful followers the crown of
immortality.

THE WORSHIP OF MITHRA

The Mithraic worship took the form of a mystery with seven grades, or degrees, through which
candidates passed by ordeals of initiation. The rites included a kind of baptism with holy
water, a sacrificial meal of bread and wine, and daily litanies to the sun. Mithra was represented
as a youthful hero miraculously born from a rock at the dawn of day; for this reason his worship
was always conducted underground in natural or artificial caves, or in cellars. At the back
of one of these subterranean temples would be often a picture of Mithra slaying a bull, and
an inscription: "To the Unconquerable Sun, to Mithra." [16]

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ORIENTAL RELIGIONS

The new Oriental religions all appealed to the emotions. They helped to satisfy the spiritual
wants of men and women, by dwelling on the need of purification from sin and by holding forth
the prospect of a happier life beyond the tomb. It is not strange, therefore, that they penetrated
every province of the Roman Empire and flourished as late as the fourth century of our era.
Christianity had no more dangerous antagonists than the followers of Mithra and other eastern
divinities.

78. RISE AND SPREAD OF CHRISTIANITY

CHRISTIANITY AMONG THE JEWS

Christianity rose among the Jews, for Jesus was a Jew and his disciples were Jews. At the time
of the death of Jesus [17] his immediate followers numbered scarcely a Christianity hundred
persons. The catastrophe of the crucifixion struck them with sorrow and dismay. When, however,
the disciples came to believe in the resurrection of their master, a wonderful impetus was
given to the growth of the new religion. They now asserted that Jesus was the true Messiah,
or Christ, who by rising from the dead had sealed the truth of his teachings. For several years
after the crucifixion, the disciples remained at Jerusalem, preaching and making converts.
The new doctrines met so much opposition on the part of Jewish leaders in the capital city
that the followers of Jesus withdrew to Samaria, Damascus, and Antioch. In all these places
there were large Jewish communities, among whom Peter and his fellow apostles labored zealously.

MISSIONARY LABORS OF PAUL

Up to this time the new faith had been spread only among the Jews. The first Christians did
not neglect to keep up all the customs of the Jewish religion. It was even doubted for a while
whether any but Jews could properly be allowed within the Christian fold. A new convert, Saul
of Tarsus, afterwards the Apostle Paul, did most to admit the Gentiles, or pagans, to the privileges
of the new religion. Though born a Jew, Paul had been trained in the schools of Tarsus, a city
of Asia Minor which was a great center of Greek learning. He possessed a knowledge of Greek
philosophy, and particularly of Stoicism. This broad education helped to make him an acceptable
missionary to Greek-speaking peoples. During more than thirty years of unceasing activity Paul
established churches in Asia Minor, Greece, Macedonia, and Italy. To many of these churches
he wrote the letters (epistles), which have found a place in the New Testament. So large a
part of the doctrines of Christianity has been derived from Paul's writings that we may well
speak of him as the second founder of the Christian faith.

CHRISTIANITY AMONG THE GENTILES

Christianity advanced with marvelous rapidity over the Roman world. At the close of the first
century there were Christians everywhere in Asia Minor. The second century saw the establishment
of flourishing churches in almost every province of the empire. A hundred years later there
were missionaries along the Rhine, on the Danube frontier, and in distant Britain. "We are
but of yesterday," says a Christian writer, with pardonable exaggeration, "yet we have filled
all your places of resort-- cities, islands, fortresses, towns, markets, the camp itself, the
tribes, town councils, the palace, the senate, and the forum, We have left to you only the
temples of your gods." [18]

CONDITIONS FAVORING THE SPREAD OF CHRISTIANITY

Certain circumstances contributed to the success of this gigantic missionary enterprise. Alexander's
conquests in the East and those of Rome in the West had done much to remove the barriers to
intercourse between nations. The spread of Greek and Latin as the common languages of the Mediterranean
world furnished a medium in which Christian speakers and writers could be easily understood.
The scattering of the Jews after the destruction of Jerusalem [19] provided the Christians
with an audience in many cities of the empire. The early missionaries, such as Paul himself,
were often Roman citizens who enjoyed the protection of the Roman law and profited by the ease
of travel which the imperial rule had made possible. At no other period in ancient history
were conditions so favorable for the rapid spread of a new religion.

ORGANIZATION OF EARLY CHRISTIANITY

While Christianity was conquering the world, the believers in its doctrines were grouping themselves
into communities or churches. Every city had a congregation of Christian worshipers. [20] They
met, not in synagogues as did the Jews, but in private houses, where they sang hymns, listened
to readings from the Holy Scriptures, and partook of a sacrificial meal in memory of the last
supper of Jesus with his disciples. Certain officers called presbyters, [21] or elders, were
chosen to conduct the services and instruct the converts. The chief presbyter received the
name of "overseer," or bishop. [22] Each church had also one or more deacons, who visited the
sick and relieved the wants of the poor. Every Christian community thus formed a little brotherhood
of earnest men and women, united by common beliefs and common hopes.

79. THE PERSECUTIONS

HOSTILITY TOWARD THE CHRISTIANS

The new religion from the start met popular disapproval. The early Christians, who tried to
keep themselves free from idolatry, were regarded as very unsociable persons. They never appeared
at public feasts and entertainments. They would not join in the amusements of the circus or
the amphitheater. They refused to send their children to the schools. The ordinary citizen
could not understand such people. It is not surprising, therefore, that they gained the evil
name of "haters of mankind."

SUPERSTITIOUS FEAR OF THE CHRISTIANS

If the multitude despised the Christians, they sometimes feared them as well. Strange stories
circulated about the secret meetings of the Christians, who at their sacrificial meal were
declared to feast on children. The Christians, too, were often looked upon as magicians who
caused all sorts of disasters. It was not difficult to excite the vicious crowds of the larger
cities to riots and disorders, in which many followers of the new religion lost their lives.

ANTAGONISM OF THE ROMAN GOVERNMENT

Such outbursts of mob hatred were only occasional. There would have been no organized, persistent
attack, if the imperial government had not taken a hand. Rome, which had treated so many other
foreign faiths with careless indifference or even with favor, which had tolerated the Jews
and granted to them special privileges of worship, made a deliberate effort to crush Christianity.

ATTITUDE OF THE CHRISTIANS TOWARD PAGANISM

Rome entered on the persecutions because it saw in Christianity that which threatened its own
existence. The Christians declined to support the state religion; they even condemned it unsparingly
as sinful and idolatrous. The Christians, moreover, would not worship the genius, or guardian
spirit of the emperor, and would not burn incense before his statue, which stood in every town.
Such a refusal to take what was really an oath of allegiance was regarded as an act of rebellion.
These feelings of hostility to the Christians were strengthened by their unwillingness to serve
in the army and to swear by the pagan gods in courts of law. In short, the members of this
new sect must have appeared very unruly subjects who, if allowed to become numerous enough,
would endanger the security of the government.

DIOCLETIAN'S PERSECUTION, 303-311 A.D.

As early as the beginning of the second century Roman officials began to search out and punish
Christians, wherever they were found. During the third century the entire power of the imperial
government was directed against this outlawed sect. The persecution which began under Diocletian
was the last and most severe. With some interruptions it continued for eight years. Only Gaul
and Britain seem to have escaped its ravages. The government began by burning the holy books
of the Christians, by destroying their churches, and by taking away their property. Members
of the hated faith lost their privileges as full Roman citizens. Then sterner measures followed.
The prisons were crowded with Christians. Those who refused to recant and sacrifice to the
emperor were thrown to wild animals in the arena, stretched on the rack, or burned over a slow
fire. Every refinement of torture was practiced. Paganism, fighting for its existence, left
no means untried to root out a sect both despised and feared.

THE MARTYRS

The Christians joyfully suffered for their religion. They welcomed the torture and death which
would gain for them a heavenly crown. Those who perished were called martyrs, that is, "witnesses."
Even now the festal day of a martyr is the day of his death.

80. TRIUMPH OF CHRISTIANITY

CHRISTIANITY BECOMES A TOLERATED RELIGION

Diocletian's persecution, which continued for several years after his abdication, came to an
end in 311 A.D. In that year Galerius, the ruler in the East, published an edict which permitted
the Christians to rebuild their churches and worship undisturbed. It remained for the emperor
Constantine to take the next significant step. In 313 A.D. Constantine and his colleague, Licinius,
issued the Edict of Milan, which proclaimed for the first time in history the noble principle
of religious toleration. It gave absolute freedom to every man to choose and follow the religion
which he deemed best suited to his needs. This edict placed the Christian faith on an equality
with paganism.

CONSTANTINE'S CONVERSION

The conversion of Constantine is one of the most important events in ancient history. A Roman
emperor, himself a god to the subjects of Rome, became the worshiper of a crucified provincial
of his empire. Constantine favored the Christians throughput his reign. He surrounded himself
with Christian bishops, freed the clergy from taxation, and spent large sums in building churches.
One of his laws abolished the use of the cross as an instrument of punishment. Another enactment
required that magistrates, city people, and artisans were to rest on Sunday. This was the first
"Sunday law." [23]

CHURCH COUNCIL AT NICAEA, 325 A.D.

Significant of the emperor's attitude toward Christianity was his action in summoning all the
bishops in the different provinces to a gathering at Nicaea in Asia Minor. It was the first
general council of the Church. The principal work of the Council of Nicaea was the settlement
of a great dispute which had arisen over the nature of Christ. Some theologians headed by Arius,
a priest of Alexandria, maintained that Christ the Son, having been created by God the Father,
was necessarily inferior to him Athanasius, another Alexandrian priest, opposed this view and
held that Christ was not a created being, but was in all ways equal to God. The Council accepted
the arguments of Athanasius, condemned Arius as a heretic, and framed the Nicene Creed, which
is still the accepted summary of Christian doctrine. Though thrust out of the Church, Arianism
lived to flourish anew among the Germanic tribes, of which the majority were converted to Christianity
by Arian missionaries.

CHRISTIANITY BECOMES THE STATE RELIGION UNDER THEODOSIUS, 379-395 A.D.

The recognition given to Christianity by Constantine helped immensely to spread the new faith.
The emperor Theodosius, whose services to the church won him the title of "the Great," made
Christianity the state religion. Sacrifices to the pagan gods were forbidden, the temples were
closed, and their property was taken away. Those strongholds of the old paganism, the Delphic
oracle, the Olympian games, and the Eleusinian mysteries, were abolished. Even the private
worship of the household Lares and Penates [24] was prohibited. Though paganism lingered for
a century or more in the country districts, it became extinct as a state religion by the end
of the fourth century.

81. CHRISTIAN INFLUENCE ON SOCIETY

MORAL TEACHINGS OF CHRISTIANITY

The new religion certainly helped to soften and refine manners by the stress which it laid
upon such "Christian" virtues as humility, tenderness, and gentleness. By dwelling on the sanctity
of human life, Christianity did its best to repress the very common practice of suicide as
well as the frightful evil of infanticide. [25] It set its face sternly against the obscenities
of the theater and the cruelties of the gladiatorial shows. [26] In these and other respects
Christianity had much to do with the improvement of ancient morals.

SOCIAL TEACHINGS OF CHRISTIANITY

Perhaps even more original contributions of Christianity to civilization lay in its social
teachings. The belief in the fatherhood of God implied a corresponding belief in the brotherhood
of man. This doctrine of the equality of men had been expressed before by ancient philosophers,
but Christianity translated the precept into practice. In this way it helped to improve the
condition of slaves and, by favoring emancipation, even tended to decrease slavery. [27] Christianity
also laid much emphasis on the virtue of charity and the duty of supporting all institutions
which aimed to relieve the lot of the poor, the sick, and the downtrodden.

CHRISTIANITY AND THE GERMANS

At the close of the fourth century the Germanic tribes living nearest the frontiers had been
visited by missionaries and had become converts to Christianity. The fact that both Romans
and Germans were Christians tended to lessen the terrors of the invasions and to bring about
a peaceful fusion of the conquerors and the conquered.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate the territories of the Roman Empire and their division, 395 A D.

2. What is the date of the accession of the emperor Commodus? of the accession of Diocletian?
of the death of Theodosius? of the Edict of Milan? of the Council of Nicaea?

3. What elements of weakness in the imperial system had been disclosed during the century 180-284
A.D.?

4. Explain Diocletian's plan of "partnership emperors."

5. Define the terms absolutism and centralization. Give an example of a European country under
a centralized administration; of a European country under an absolute government.

6. What are the advantages of local self-government over a centralized government?

7. "The emperor of the first century was a Prince, that is, 'first citizen'; the emperor of
the fourth century was a Sultan." Comment on this statement.

8. What arguments might have been made for and against the removal of the capital to Constantinople?

9. Enumerate the causes of the decline of population in imperial times.

10. Show how an unwise system of taxation may work great economic injury.

11. Give reasons for the decline of Greek and Roman paganism.

12. Why should Mithraism have proved "the most formidable foe which Christianity had to overcome"?

13. Were any of the ancient religions missionary faiths?

14. When and where was Jesus born? Who was king of Judea at the time? Were the Jews independent
of Rome during the lifetime of Jesus?

15. Locate on the map, facing page 230, the three divisions of Palestine at the time of Christ.

16. To what cities of Asia Minor did Paul write his epistles, or letters? To what other cities
in the Roman Empire?

17. What was the original meaning of the words "presbyter," "bishop," and "deacon"?

18. What is meant by calling the Church an episcopal organization?

19. How can you explain the persecution of the Christians by an emperor so great and good as
Marcus Aurelius?

20. What is the meaning of the word "martyr"?

21. "The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church." Explain.

22. Describe the Labarum (illustration, page 235).

23. What reasons suggest themselves as helping to explain the conversion of the civilized world
to Christianity?

FOOTNOTES

[1] See page 200.

[2] See pages 184, 194.

[3] Vopiscus, Saturninus, 10.

[4] The number and arrangement of these divisions varied somewhat during the fourth century.
See the map, between pages 222-223, for the system as it existed about 395 A.D.

[5] See page 186.

[6] See page 88.

[7] See the map, page 340.

[8] Until the capture of the city by the Ottoman Turks in 1453 A.D.

[9] See pages 200, 219.

[10] See page 77.

[11] See page 196.

[12] See page 201.

[13] See the map, page 107.

[14] Isocrates, Panegyricus, 29.

[15] See page 54.

[16] Soli Invicto Mithrae. An interesting survival of Mithra worship is the date of our festival
of Christmas. The 25th of December was the day of the great annual celebration in memory of
the Persian deity. In 274 A.D. the emperor Aurelian raised a gorgeous temple to the sun god
in the Campus Martius, dedicating it on the 25th of December, "the birthday of the Unconquerable
Sun." After the triumph of Christianity the day was still honored, but henceforth as the anniversary
of the birth of Christ.

[17] The exact date of the crucifixion is unknown. It took place during the reign of Tiberius,
when Pontius Pilatus was procurator of Judea.

[18] Tertullian, Apology, 37.

[19] See page 199, note 1.

[20] The meeting was called ecclesia from the Greek word for "popular assembly." Hence comes
our word "ecclesiastical."

[21] Whence the word "priest."

[22] The word "bishop" comes from the Greek episkopos and means, literally, an "overseer."

[23] It is highly doubtful, however, whether this legislation had any reference to Christianity.
More probably, Constantine was only adding the day of the Sun, the worship of which was then
firmly established in the empire (see page 229, note 1) to the other holy days of the Roman
calendar.

[24] See page 146.

[25] See page 253.

[26] See page 267.

[27] See page 270.

CHAPTER XI

THE GERMANS TO 476 A.D. [1]

82. GERMANY AND THE GERMANS

PHYSICAL FEATURES OF GERMANY

The Germans were an Indo-European people, as were their neighbors, the Celts of Gaul and Britain.
They had lived for many centuries in the wild districts of central Europe north of the Alps
and beyond the Danube and the Rhine. This home land of the Germans in ancient times was cheerless
and unhealthy. Dense forests or extensive marshes covered the ground. The atmosphere was heavy
and humid; in summer clouds and mists brooded over the country; and in winter it was covered
with snow and ice. In such a region everything was opposed to civilization. Hence the Germans,
though a gifted race, had not advanced as rapidly as the Greek and Italian peoples.

THE GERMANS DESCRIBED BY THE ROMANS

Our earliest notice of the Germans is found in the Commentaries by Julius Caesar, who twice
invaded their country. About a century and a half later the Roman historian, Tacitus, wrote
a little book called Germany, which gives an account of the people as they were before coming
under the influence of Rome and Christianity. Tacitus describes the Germans as barbarians with
many of the usual marks of barbarism. He speaks of their giant size, their fierce, blue eyes,
and their blonde or ruddy hair. These physical traits made them seem especially terrible to
the smaller and darker Romans. He mentions their love of warfare, the fury of their onset in
battle, and the contempt which they had for wounds and even death itself. When not fighting,
they passed much of their time in the chase, and still more time in sleep and gluttonous feasts.
They were hard drinkers, too, and so passionately fond of gambling that, when a man's wealth
was gone, he would even stake his liberty on a single game. In some of these respects the Germans
resembled our own Indian tribes.

GERMAN MORALS

On the other hand, the Germans had certain attractive qualities not always found even among
civilized peoples. They were hospitable to the stranger, they respected their sworn word, they
loved liberty and hated restraint. Their chiefs, we are told, ruled rather by persuasion than
by authority. Above all, the Germans had a pure family life. "Almost alone among barbarians,"
writes Tacitus, "they are content with one wife. No one in Germany laughs at vice, nor is it
the fashion to corrupt and be corrupted. Good habits are here more effectual than good laws
elsewhere." [2] The Germans, then, were strong and brave, hardy, chaste, and free.

PROGRESS OF THE GERMANS

The Germans, during the three centuries between the time of Tacitus and the beginning of the
invasions, had advanced somewhat in civilization. They were learning to live in towns instead
of in rude villages, to read and write, to make better weapons and clothes, to use money, and
to enjoy many Roman luxuries, such as wine, spices, and ornaments. They were likewise uniting
in great confederations of tribes, ruled by kings who were able to lead them in migrations
to other lands.

REASONS FOR THE GERMANIC MIGRATIONS

During this same period, also, the Germans increased rapidly in numbers. Consequently it was
a difficult matter for them to live by hunting and fishing, or by such rude agriculture as
their country allowed. They could find additional land only in the fertile and well cultivated
territories of the Romans. It was this hunger for land, together with the love of fighting
and the desire for booty and adventure, which led to their migrations.

GROWING WEAKNESS OF ROME

The German inroads were neither sudden, nor unexpected, nor new. Since the days of Marius and
of Julius Caesar not a century had passed without witnessing some dangerous movement of the
northern barbarians. Until the close of the fourth century Rome had always held their swarming
hordes at bay. Nor were the invasions which at length destroyed the empire much more formidable
than those which had been repulsed many times before. Rome fell because she could no longer
resist with her earlier power. If the barbarians were not growing stronger, the Romans themselves
were steadily growing weaker. The form of the empire was still the same, but it had lost its
vigor and its vitality. [3]

83. BREAKING OF THE DANUBE BARRIER

THE GOTHS

North of the Danube lived, near the close of the fourth century, a German people called Visigoths,
or West Goths. Their kinsmen, the Ostrogoths, or East Goths, held the land north of the Black
Sea between the Danube and the Don. These two nations had been among the most dangerous enemies
of Rome. In the third century they made so many expeditions against the eastern territories
of the empire that Aurelian at last surrendered to the Visigoths the great province of Dacia.
[4] The barbarians now came in contact with Roman civilization and began to lead more settled
lives. Some of them even accepted Christianity from Bishop Ulfilas, who translated the Bible
into the Gothic tongue.

THE VISIGOTHS CROSS THE DANUBE, 376 A.D.

The peaceful fusion of Goth and Roman might have gone on indefinitely but for the sudden appearance
in Europe of the Huns. They were a nomadic people from central Asia. Entering Europe north
of the Caspian Sea, the Huns quickly subdued the Ostrogoths and compelled them to unite in
an attack upon their German kinsmen. Then the entire nation of Visigoths crowded the banks
of the Danube and begged the Roman authorities to allow them to cross that river and place
its broad waters between them and their terrible foes. In an evil hour for Rome their prayer
was granted. At length two hundred thousand Gothic warriors, with their wives and children,
found a home on Roman soil.

BATTLE OF ADRIANOPLE, 378 A.D.

The settlement of such a host of barbarians within the frontier of the empire was in itself
a dangerous thing. The danger was increased by the ill treatment which the immigrants received.
The Roman officials robbed them of their possessions, withheld the promised supplies of food,
and even tried to murder their leaders at a banquet. Finally, the Germans broke out in open
revolt. The emperor Valens misjudged their strength and rashly gave them battle near Adrianople
in Thrace. The once invincible legions fell an easy prey to their foes, and the emperor himself
perished.

RESULTS OF THE BATTLE

The defeat at Adrianople is considered one of the few really decisive battles in the world's
history. It showed the barbarians that they could face the Romans in open fight and beat them.
And it broke, once for all, the Danube barrier. Swarms of fighting men, Ostrogoths as well
as Visigoths, overran the provinces south of the Danube. The great ruler, Theodosius, [5] saved
the empire for a time by granting lands to the Germans and by enrolling them in the army under
the high-sounding title of "allies." Until his death the Goths remained quiet--but it was only
the lull before the storm.

ALARIC THE VISIGOTH

Theodosius, "the friend of the Goths," died in 395 A.D., leaving the defense of the Roman world
to his weakling sons, Arcadius and Honorius. In the same year the Visigoths raised one of their
young nobles, named Alaric, upon a shield and with joyful shouts acclaimed him as their king.
The Visigothic leader despised the service of Rome. His people, he thought, should be masters,
not servants. Alaric determined to lead them into the very heart of the empire, where they
might find fertile lands and settle once for all.

ALARIC IN GREECE AND ITALY

Alaric at first fixed his attention on Constantinople. Realizing, at length, how hopeless would
be the siege of that great city, he turned toward the west and descended upon Greece. The Germans
marched unopposed through the pass of Thermopylae and devastated central Greece, as the Persians
had done nearly nine centuries before. [6] Then the barbarians entered the Peloponnesus, but
were soon driven out by Stilicho, a German chieftain who had risen to the command of the army
of Honorius. Alaric gave up Greece only to invade Italy. Before long the Goths crossed the
Julian Alps and entered the rich and defenseless valley of the Po. To meet the crisis the legions
were hastily called in, even from the distant frontiers. Stilicho formed them into a powerful
army, beat back the enemy, and captured the Visigothic camp, filled with the spoil of Greek
cities. In the eyes of the Romans Stilicho seemed a second Marius, who had arisen in an hour
of peril to save Italy from its barbarian foes. [7]

THE VISIGOTHS BEFORE ROME

Alaric and his Goths had been repulsed; they had not been destroyed. Beyond the Alps they were
regaining their shattered strength and biding their time. Their opportunity came soon enough,
when Honorius caused Stilicho to be put to death on a charge of plotting to seize the throne.
The accusation may have been true, but in killing Stilicho the emperor had cut off his right
hand with his left. Now that Stilicho was out of the way, Alaric no longer feared to descend
again on Italy. The Goths advanced rapidly southward past Ravenna, where Honorius had shut
himself up in terror, and made straight for Rome. In 410 A.D., just eight hundred years after
the sack of the city by the Gauls, [8] Rome found the Germans within her gates.

SACK OF ROME BY THE VISIGOTHS, 410 A.D.

The city for three days and nights was given up to pillage. Alaric, who was a Christian, ordered
his followers to respect the churches and their property and to refrain from bloodshed. Though
the city did not greatly suffer, the moral effect of the disaster was immense. Rome the eternal,
the unconquerable, she who had taken captive all the world, was now herself a captive. The
pagans saw in this calamity the vengeance of the ancient deities, who had been dishonored and
driven from their shrines. The Christians believed that God had sent a judgment on the Romans
to punish them for their sins. In either case the spell of Rome was forever broken.

KINGDOM OF THE VISIGOTHS, 415-711 A.D.

From Rome Alaric led his hosts, laden with plunder, into southern Italy. He may have intended
to cross the Mediterranean and bring Africa under his rule. The plan was never carried out,
for the youthful chieftain died suddenly, a victim to the Italian fever. After Alaric's death,
the barbarians made their way northward through Italy and settled in southern Gaul and Spain.
In these lands they founded an independent Visigothic kingdom, the first to be created on Roman
soil.

ROMANIZATION OF THE VISIGOTHS

The possessions of the Visigoths in Gaul were seized by their neighbors, the Franks, in less
than a century; [9] but the Gothic kingdom in Spain had three hundred years of prosperous life.
[10] The barbarian rulers sought to preserve the institutions of Rome and to respect the rights
of their Roman subjects. Conquerors and conquered gradually blended into one people, out of
whom have grown the Spaniards of modern times.

84. BREAKING OF THE RHINE BARRIER

THE GERMANS CROSS THE RHINE, 406 A.D.

After the departure of the Visigoths Rome and Italy remained undisturbed for nearly forty years.
The western provinces were not so fortunate. At the time of Alaric's first attack on Italy
the legions along the Rhine had been withdrawn to meet him, leaving the frontier unguarded.
In 406 A.D., four years before Alaric's sack of Rome, a vast company of Germans crossed the
Rhine and swept almost unopposed through Gaul. Some of these peoples succeeded in establishing
kingdoms for themselves on the ruins of the empire.

KINGDOM OF THE BURGUNDIANS, 443-534 A.D.

The Burgundians settled on the upper Rhine and in the fertile valley of the Rhone, in southeastern
Gaul. Alter less than a century of independence they were conquered by the Franks. [11] Their
name, however, survives in modern Burgundy.

VANDAL KINGDOM IN NORTH AFRICA, 429-534 A.D.

The Vandals settled first in Spain. The territory now called Andalusia still preserves the
memory of these barbarians. After the Visigothic invasion of Spain the Vandals passed over
to North Africa. They made themselves masters of Carthage and soon conquered all the Roman
province of Africa. Their kingdom here lasted about one hundred years. [12]

THE FRANKS IN NORTHERN GAUL

While the Visigoths were finding a home in the districts north and south of the Pyrenees, the
Burgundians in the Rhone valley, and the Vandals in Africa, still another Germanic people began
to spread over northern Gaul. They were the Franks, who had long held lands on both sides of
the lower Rhine. The Franks, unlike the other Germans, were not of a roving disposition. They
contented themselves with a gradual advance into Roman territory. It was not until near the
close of the fifth century that they overthrew the Roman power in northern Gaul and began to
form the Frankish kingdom, out of which modern France has grown.

THE ANGLES AND SAXONS IN BRITAIN, FROM 449 A.D.

The troubled years of the fifth century saw also the beginning of the Germanic conquest of
Britain. The withdrawal of the legions from that island left it defenseless, for the Celtic
inhabitants were too weak to defend themselves. Bands of savage Picts from Scotland swarmed
over Hadrian's Wall, attacking the Britons in the rear. Ireland sent forth the no less savage
Scots. The eastern coasts, at the same time, were constantly exposed to raids by German pirates.
The Britons, in their extremity, adopted the old Roman practice of getting the barbarians to
fight for them. Bands of Jutes were invited over from Denmark in 449 A.D. The Jutes forced
back the Picts and then settled in Britain as conquerors. Fresh swarms of invaders followed
them, chiefly Angles from what is now Schleswig-Holstein and Saxons from the neighborhood of
the rivers Elbe and Weser in northern Germany. The invaders subdued nearly all that part of
Britain that Rome had previously conquered. In this way the Angles and Saxons became ancestors
of the English people, and Engleland became England. [13]

POLITICAL SITUATION IN 451 A.D.

By the middle of the fifth century the larger part of the Roman Empire in the West had come
under barbarian control. The Germans ruled in Africa, Spain, Britain, and parts of Gaul. But
now the new Germanic kingdoms, together with what remained of the old empire, were threatened
by a common foe--the terrible Huns.

85. INROADS OF THE HUNS

THE HUNS

We know very little about the Huns, except that they were not related to the Germans or to
any other European people. Some scholars believe them to have belonged to the Mongolian race.
But the Huns, to the excited imagination of Roman writers, were demons rather than men. Their
olive skins, little, turned-up noses, and black, beady eyes must have given them a very frightful
appearance. They spent most of their time on horseback, sweeping over the country like a whirlwind
and leaving destruction and death in their wake.

ATTILA THE HUN

The Huns did not become dangerous to Rome for more than half a century after their first appearance
in Europe. [14] During this time they moved into the Danube region and settled in the lands
now known as Austria and Hungary. At last the Huns found a national leader in Attila, "a man
born into the world to agitate the nations, the fear of all lands," [15] one whose boast it
was that the grass never grew again where his horse's hoofs had trod. He quickly built up a
great military power obeyed by many barbarous nations from the Caspian to the Rhine.

INVASION OF GAUL BY ATTILA

Attila, from his capital on the Danube, could threaten both the East and the West. The emperors
at Constantinople bought him off with lavish gifts, and so the robber-ruler turned to the western
provinces for his prey. In 451 A.D. he led his motley host, said to number half a million men,
across the Rhine. Many a noble municipality with its still active Roman life was visited by
the Huns with fire and sword. Paris, it is worthy of note, escaped destruction. That now famous
city was then only a little village on an island in the Seine.

BATTLE OF CHALONS, 451 A.D.

In this hour of danger Romans and Germans gave up quarreling and united against the common
foe. Visigoths under their native king hastened from Spain; Burgundians and Franks joined their
ranks; to these forces a German general, named Aetius, added the last Roman army in the West.
Opposed to them Attila had his Huns, the conquered Ostrogoths, and many other barbarian peoples.
The battle of Chalons has well been called a struggle of the nations. It was one of the fiercest
conflicts recorded in history. On both sides thousands perished, but so many more of Attila's
men fell that he dared not risk a fresh encounter on the following day. He drew his shattered
forces together and retreated beyond the Rhine.

ATTILA INVADES ITALY, 452 A.D.

In spite of this setback Attila did not abandon the hope of conquest. The next year he led
his still formidable army over the Julian Alps and burned or plundered many towns of northern
Italy. A few trembling fugitives sought shelter on the islands at the head of the Adriatic.
Out of their rude huts grew up in the Middle Ages splendid and famous Venice, a city that in
later centuries was to help defend Europe against those kinsmen of the Huns, the Turks.

DEATH OF ATTILA, 453 A.D.

The fiery Hun did not long survive this Italian expedition. Within a year he was dead, dying
suddenly, it was said, in a drunken sleep. The great confederacy which he had formed broke
up after his death. The German subjects gained their freedom, and the Huns themselves either
withdrew to their Asiatic wilds or mingled with the peoples they had conquered. Europe breathed
again; the nightmare was over.

86. END OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE IN THE WEST, 476 A.D.

VANDAL PIRATES

Rome escaped a visitation by the Huns only to fall a victim, three years later, to the Vandals.
After the capture of Carthage,[16] these barbarians made that city the seat of a pirate empire.
Putting out in their long, light vessels, they swept the seas and raided many a populous city
on the Mediterranean coast. So terrible were their inroads that the word "vandalism" has come
to mean the wanton destruction of property.

SACK OF ROME BY THE VANDALS, 455 A.D.

In 455 A.D. the ships of the Vandals, led by their king, Gaiseric, appeared at the mouth of
the Tiber. The Romans could offer no resistance. Only the noble bishop Leo went out with his
clergy to meet the invader and intercede for the city. Gaiseric promised to spare the lives
of the inhabitants and not to destroy the public buildings. These were the best terms he would
grant. The Vandals spent fourteen days stripping Rome of her wealth. Besides shiploads of booty
the Vandals took away thousands of Romans as slaves, including the widow and two daughters
of an emperor.

THE ROMAN EMPIRE IN THE WEST, 455-476 A.D.

After the Vandal sack of Rome the imperial throne became the mere plaything of the army and
its leaders. A German commander, named Ricimer, set up and deposed four puppet emperors within
five years. He was, in fact, the real ruler of Italy at this time. After his death Orestes,
another German general, went a step beyond Ricimer's policy and placed his own son on the throne
of the Caesars. By a curious coincidence, this lad bore the name of Romulus, legendary founder
of Rome, and the nickname of Augustulus ("the little Augustus"). The boy emperor reigned less
than a year. The German troops clamored for a third of the lands of Italy and, when their demand
was refused, proclaimed Odoacer king. The poor little emperor, Romulus Augustulus, was sent
to a villa near Naples, where he disappears from history.

POLITICAL SITUATION IN 476 A.D.

There was now no emperor in the West. To the men of that time it seemed that East and West
had been once more joined under a single ruler, as in the days of Constantine. The emperors
who reigned at Constantinople did not relinquish their claims to be regarded as the rightful
sovereigns in Italy and Rome. Nevertheless, as an actual fact, Roman rule in the West was now
all but extinct. Odoacer, the head of the barbarians in Italy, ruled a kingdom as independent
as that of the Vandals in Africa or that of the Visigoths in Spain and Gaul. The date 476 A.D.
may therefore be chosen as marking, better than any other, the overthrow of the Roman Empire
in the West by the Germans.

87. GERMANIC INFLUENCE ON SOCIETY

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE GERMANIC INVASIONS

Classical civilization suffered a great shock when the Germans descended on the empire and
from its provinces carved out their kingdoms. These barbarians were rude in manners, were very
ignorant, and had little taste for anything except fighting and bodily enjoyments. They were
unlike the Romans in dress and habits of life. They lived under different laws, spoke different
languages, obeyed different rulers. Their invasions naturally ushered in a long period of confusion
and disorder, during which the new race slowly raised itself to a level of culture somewhat
approaching that which the Greeks and the Romans had attained.

RETROGRESSIVE FORCES

The Germans in many ways did injury to classical civilization. They sometimes destroyed Roman
cities and killed or enslaved the inhabitants. Even when the invaders settled peaceably in
the empire, they took possession of the land and set up their own tribal governments in place
of the Roman. They allowed aqueducts, bridges, and roads to go without repairs, and theaters,
baths, and other public buildings to sink into ruins. Having no appreciation of education,
the Germans failed to keep up the schools, universities, and libraries. Being devoted chiefly
to agriculture, they had no need for foreign wares or costly articles of luxury, and hence
they permitted industry and commerce to languish. In short, large parts of western Europe,
particularly Gaul, Spain, and Britain, fell backward into a condition of ignorance, superstition,
and even barbarism.

PROGRESSIVE FORCES

But in closing our survey of the Germanic invasions we need to dwell on the forces that made
for progress, rather than on those that made for decline. Classical civilization, we have already
found reason to believe, [17] had begun to decay long before the Germans broke up the empire.
The Germans came, as Christianity had come, only to hasten the process of decay. Each of these
influences, in turn, worked to build up the fabric of a new society on the ruins of the old.
First Christianity infused the pagan world with its quickening spirit and gave a new religion
to mankind. Later followed the Germans, who accepted Christianity, who adopted much of Graeco-Roman
culture, and then contributed their fresh blood and youthful minds and their own vigorous life.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate the extent of Germany in the time of Tacitus.

2. Make a list of all the Germanic nations mentioned in this chapter, and give a short account
of each.

3 Give dates for the following: battle of Chalons; sack of Rome by Alaric; battle of Adrianople;
and end of the Roman Empire in the West.

4. What resemblances existed between the culture of the Germans and that of the early Greeks?

5. Why did the Germans progress more slowly in civilization than the Greeks and the Romans?

6. Comment on this statement: "The Germans had stolen their way into the very citadel of the
empire long before its distant outworks were stormed."

7. Why is modern civilization, unlike that of antiquity, in little danger from barbarians?

8. Why has the battle of Adrianople been called "the Cannae of the fourth century"?

9. Why has Alaric been styled "the Moses of the Visigoths"?

10. What is the origin of the geographical names Andalusia, Burgundy, England, and France?

11. Why was Attila called the "scourge of God"?

12. Can you suggest a reason why some historians do not regard Chalons as one of the world's
decisive battles?

13.

[2] Tacitus, Germania, 19.

[3] See pages 224-226.

[4] See page 219.

[5] See page 223.

[6] See page 98.

[7] See page 178.

[8] See page 153.

[9] See page 303.

[10] See page 378.

[11] See page 303.

[12] See page 330.

[13] The invasion of Britain by the Anglo-Saxons was followed by the migration across the Channel
of large numbers of the defeated islanders. The district in France where they settled is called
after them, Brittany.

[14] See page 241.

[15] Jordanes, De rebus Geticis, 35.

[16] See page 225.

[17] See page 224.

CHAPTER XII

CLASSICAL CIVILIZATION [1]

88. THE CLASSICAL CITY

THE CENTER OF CLASSICAL LIFE

The history of the Greeks and Romans ought not to be studied only in their political development
and the biographies of their great statesmen and warriors. We must also know something of ancient
literature, philosophy, and art. Especially do we need to learn about the private life of the
classical peoples--their manners, customs, occupations, and amusements. This life centered
in the city.

ORIGIN OF THE CITY

A Greek or a Roman city usually grew up about a hill of refuge (acropolis, capitolium), to
which the people of the surrounding district could flee in time of danger. The hill would be
crowned with a fortress and the temples of the gods. Not far away was the market place (agora,
forum), where the people gathered to conduct their business and to enjoy social intercourse.
About the citadel and market place were grouped the narrow streets and low houses of the town.

GENERAL APPEARANCE OF AN ANCIENT CITY

The largest and most beautiful buildings in an ancient city were always the temples, colonnades,
and other public structures. The houses of private individuals, for the most part, had few
pretensions to beauty. They were insignificant in appearance and were often built with only
one story. From a distance, however, their whitewashed walls and red-tiled roofs, shining brightly
under the warm sun, must have made an attractive picture.

LIFE IN THE CITY

To the free-born inhabitant of Athens or of Rome his city was at once his country and his church,
his club and his home. He shared in its government; he took part in the stately ceremonies
that honored its patron god; in the city he could indulge his taste for talking and for politics;
here he found both safety and society. No wonder that an Athenian or a Roman learned, from
early childhood, to love his city with passionate devotion.

89. EDUCATION AND THE CONDITION OF CHILDREN

IMPORTANCE OF MALE CHILDREN

The coming of a child, to parents in antiquity as to parents now, was usually a very happy
event. Especially welcome was the birth of a son. The father felt assured that through the
boy his old age would be cared for and that the family name and the worship of the family ancestors
would be kept up after his own death. "Male children," said an ancient poet, "are the pillars
of the house." [2] The city, as well, had an interest in the matter, for a male child meant
another citizen able to take the father's place in the army and the public assembly. To have
no children was regarded as one of the greatest calamities that could befall a Greek or a Roman.

INFANTICIDE

The ancient attitude toward children was in one respect very unlike our own. The law allowed
a father to do whatever he pleased with a newly born child. If he was very poor, or if his
child was deformed, he could expose it in some desert spot, where it soon died. An infant was
sometimes placed secretly in a temple, where possibly some kind-hearted person might rescue
it. The child, in this case, became the slave of its adopter. This custom of exposure, an inheritance
from prehistoric savagery, tended to grow less common with advancing culture. The complete
abolition of infanticide was due to the spread of Christian teachings about the sacredness
of human life. [3]

NAMES

A Greek boy generally had but one name. The favorite name for the eldest son was that of his
paternal grandfather. A father, however, might give him his own name or that of an intimate
friend. The Romans at first seem to have used only the one name, then two were given; and later
we have the familiar three-fold name, representing the individual, the clan, and the family. [4]

GREEK EDUCATION

Greek education consisted of three main branches, known as gymnastics, music, and grammar.
By gymnastics the Greeks meant the physical training in the palestra, an open stretch of ground
on the outskirts of the city. Here a private teacher gave instruction in the various athletic
sports which were so popular at the national games. The training in music was intended to improve
the moral nature of young men and to fit them for pleasant social intercourse. They were taught
to play a stringed instrument, called the lyre, and at the same time to sing to their own accompaniment.
Grammar, the third branch of education, included instruction in writing and the reading of
the national literature. After a boy had learned to write and to read, the schoolmaster took
up with him the works of the epic poets, especially Homer, besides Aesop's Fables and other
popular compositions. The student learned by heart much of the poetry and at so early an age
that he always remembered it. Not a few Athenians, it is said, could recite the entire Iliad
and Odyssey.

ROMAN EDUCATION

A Roman boy began his school days at about the age of seven. He learned to read, to write with
a stylus on wax tablets, and to cipher by means of the reckoning board, or abacus. He received
a little instruction in singing and memorized all sorts of proverbs and maxims, besides the
laws of the Twelve Tables. [5] His studying went on under the watchful eyes of a harsh schoolmaster,
who did not hesitate to use the rod. After Rome began to come into close contact with Greece,
the curriculum was enlarged by the study of literature. The Romans were the first people who
made the learning of a foreign tongue an essential part of education. Schools now arose in
which the Greek language and literature formed the chief subject of instruction. As Latin literature
came into being, its productions, especially the orations of Cicero and the poems of Vergil
and Horace, were also used as texts for study.

TRAVEL AND STUDY ABROAD

Persons of wealth or noble birth might follow their school training by a university course
at a Greek city, such as Athens, Alexandria, or Rhodes. Here the Roman youth would listen to
lectures on philosophy, delivered by the deep thinkers whom Greece still produced, and would
profit by the treasures of art and science preserved in these ancient capitals. Many famous
Romans thus passed several years abroad in graduate study. During the imperial age, as we have
already seen, [6] schools of grammar and rhetoric arose in the West, particularly in Gaul and
Spain, and attracted students from all parts of the empire.

90. MARRIAGE AND THE POSITION OF WOMEN

ENGAGEMENTS

A young man in Athens or in Rome did not, as a rule, marry immediately on coming of age. He
might remain a bachelor for several years, sometimes till he was thirty or over. The young
man's father had most to do with the selection of a wife. He tried to secure for his son some
daughter of a friend who possessed rank and property equal to his own. The parents of the two
parties would then enter into a contract which, among other things, usually stated how large
a dowry the bride's father was to settle on his daughter. An engagement was usually very little
a matter of romance and very much a matter of business.

WEDDING CUSTOMS

The wedding customs of the Greeks and Romans presented many likenesses. Marriage, among both
peoples, was a religious ceremony. On the appointed day the principals and their guests, dressed
in holiday attire, met at the house of the bride. In the case of a Roman wedding the auspices
[7] were then taken, and the words of the nuptial contract were pronounced in the presence
of witnesses. After a solemn sacrifice to the gods of marriage, the guests partook of the wedding
banquet. When night came on, the husband brought his wife to her new abode, escorted by a procession
of torchbearers, musicians, and friends, who sang the happy wedding song.

POSITION OF WOMEN

An Athenian wife, during her younger years, always remained more or less a prisoner. She could
not go out except by permission. She took no part in the banquets and entertainments which
her husband gave. She lived a life of confinement in that quarter of the house assigned to
the women for their special abode. Married women at Rome enjoyed a far more honorable position.
Although early custom placed the wife, together with her children, in the power of the husband,
[8] still she possessed many privileges. She did not remain all the time at home, but mingled
freely in society. She was the friend and confidante of her husband, as well as his housekeeper.
During the great days of Roman history the women showed themselves virtuous and dignified,
loving wives and excellent companions.

91. THE HOME AND PRIVATE LIFE

CLOTHING

There were no great differences between the dress of the two classical peoples. Both wore the
long, loosely flowing robes that contrast so sharply with our tight-fitting garments. [9] Athenian
male attire consisted of but two articles, the tunic and the mantle. The tunic was an undergarment
of wool or linen, without sleeves. Over this was thrown a large woolen mantle, so wrapped about
the figure as to leave free only the right shoulder and head. In the house a man wore only
his tunic; out of doors and on the street he usually wore the mantle over it. Very similar
to the two main articles of Greek clothing were the Roman tunica and toga. [10]

COVERING FOR THE HEAD AND FEET

On a journey or out in the country broad-brimmed hats were used to shield the head from the
sun. In rainy weather the mantle, pulled up over the head, furnished protection. Sandals, merely
flat soles of wood or leather fastened by thongs, were worn indoors, but even these were laid
aside at a dinner party. Outside the house leather shoes of various shapes and colors were
used. They cannot have been very comfortable, since stockings were not known in antiquity.

EXTERIOR OF THE HOUSE

The ancient house lay close to the street line. The exterior was plain and simple to an extreme.
The owner was satisfied if his mansion shut out the noise and dust of the highway. He built
it, therefore, round one or more open courts, which took the place of windows supplying light
and air. Except for the doorway the front of the house presented a bare, blank surface, only
relieved by narrow slits or lattices in the wall of the upper story. The street side of the
house wall received a coating of whitewash or of fine marble stucco. The roof of the house
was covered with clay tiles. This style of domestic architecture is still common in eastern lands.

INTERIOR OF THE HOUSE

In contrast with its unpretentious exterior a classical dwelling indoors had a most attractive
appearance. We cannot exactly determine just what were the arrangements of a Greek interior.
But the better class of Roman houses, such as some of those excavated at Pompeii, [11] followed
Greek designs in many respects. The Pompeian remains, therefore, will give some idea of the
sort of residence occupied by a well-to-do citizen of Athens or Rome.

THE ATRIUM

The visitor at one of these ancient houses first entered a small vestibule, from which a narrow
passage led to the heavy oaken door. A dog was sometimes kept chained in this hallway; in Pompeii
there is a picture of one worked in mosaic on the floor with the warning beneath it, "Beware
of the dog." Having made known his presence by using the knocker, the guest was ushered into
the reception room, or atrium. This was a large apartment covered with a roof, except for a
hole in the center admitting light and air. A marble basin directly underneath caught the rain
water which came through the opening. The atrium represents the single room of the primitive
Roman house without windows or chimney. [12]

THE PERISTYLE

A corridor from the atrium led into the peristyle, the second of the two main sections of a
Roman house. It was a spacious court, open to the sky and inclosed by a colonnade or portico.
This delightful spot, rather than the formal atrium, served as the center of family life. About
it were grouped the bedchambers, bathrooms, dining rooms, kitchen, and other apartments of
a comfortable mansion. Still other rooms occupied the upper stories of the dwelling.

BUSINESS OF THE FORENOON

The ancient Athenian was no sluggard. At sunrise, or even before, he rose from his couch, washed
his face and hands, put on his scanty garments, and was soon ready for the street. Before leaving
the house, he broke his fast with a meal as simple as the European "rolls and coffee"--in this
case merely a few mouthfuls of bread dipped in wine. After breakfast he might call on his friends
or perhaps ride into the country and visit his estates. About ten o'clock (which the Athenians
called "full market"), he would be pretty sure to find his way to the Agora. The shops at this
time were crowded with purchasers, and every sociable citizen of Athens was to be found in
them or in the neighboring colonnades which lined the market place.

OCCUPATIONS IN THE AFTERNOON

The public resorts were deserted at noon, when the Athenian returned home to enjoy a light
meal and a rest during the heat. As the day grew cooler, men again went out and visited a gymnasium,
such as the Lyceum or the Academy, in the city suburbs. [13] Here were grounds for running,
wrestling, discus-throwing, and other sports, as well as rooms for bathing and anointing. While
the younger men busied themselves in such active exercises, those of maturer years might be
content with less vigorous games or with conversation on political or philosophical themes.

THE EVENING MEAL

The principal meal of the day came about sunset. The master of the house, if he had no guests,
shared the repast with his wife and children. For a man of moderate means the ordinary fare
was very much what it is now in Greece--bread, olives, figs, cheese, and a little meat as an
occasional luxury. At the end of the meal the diners refreshed themselves with wine mixed with
water. The Greeks appear to have been usually as temperate in their drink as they were frugal
in their food. The remainder of the evening would be devoted to conversation and music and
possibly a little reading. As a rule the Athenian went early to bed.

MORNING ROUND OF A ROMAN NOBLE

A Roman of the higher class, who lived in late republican or early imperial times, passed through
much the same daily routine as an Athenian citizen in the days of Pericles. He rose at an early
hour and after a light breakfast dispatched his private business with the help of his steward
and manager. He then took his place in the atrium to meet the crowd of poor dependents who
came to pay their respects to their patron and to receive their usual morning alms--either
food or sufficient money to buy a modest dinner. Having greeted his visitors and perhaps helped
them in legal or business matters, the noble entered his litter and was carried down to the
Forum. Here he might attend the law courts to plead a case for himself or for his clients.
If he were a member of the Senate, he would take part in the deliberations of that body. At
eleven o'clock, when the ordinary duties of the morning were over, he would return home to
eat his luncheon and enjoy the midday rest, or siesta. The practice of having a nap in the
heat of the day became so general that at noon the streets of a Roman city had the same deserted
appearance as at midnight.

THE AFTERNOON EXERCISE AND BATH

After an hour of refreshing sleep it was time for the regular exercise out of doors in the
Campus Martius or indoors at one of the large city baths. Then came one of the chief pleasures
of a Roman's existence--the daily bath. It was taken ordinarily in one of the public bathing
establishments, or thermae, to be found in every Roman town. [14] A Roman bath was a luxurious
affair. After undressing, the bathers entered a warm anteroom and sat for a time on benches,
in order to perspire freely. This was a precaution against the danger of passing too suddenly
into the hot bath, which was taken in a large tank of water sunk in the middle of the floor.
Then came an exhilarating cold plunge and anointing with perfumed oil. Afterwards the bathers
rested on the couches with which the resort was supplied and passed the time in reading or
conversation until the hour for dinner.

THE LATE DINNER

The late dinner, with the Romans as with the Greeks, formed the principal meal of the day.
It was usually a social function. The host and his guests reclined on couches arranged about
a table. The Romans borrowed from the Greeks the custom of ending a banquet with a symposium,
or drinking-bout. The tables were cleared of dishes, and the guests were anointed with perfumes
and crowned with garlands. During the banquet and the symposium it was customary for professional
performers to entertain the guests with music, dancing, pantomimes, and feats of jugglery.

92. AMUSEMENTS

ATHENIAN RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS

The Athenians celebrated many religious festivals. One of the most important was the Great
Panathenaea, [15] held every fourth year in the month of July. Athletic contests and poetical
recitations, sacrifices, feasts, and processions honored the goddess Athena, who presided over
the Athenian city. Even more interesting, perhaps, were the dramatic performances held in midwinter
and in spring, at the festivals of Dionysus. The tragedies and comedies composed for these
entertainments took their place among the masterpieces of Greek literature.

FEATURES OF A GREEK PLAY

There is very little likeness between the ancient and the modern drama. Greek plays were performed
out of doors in the bright sunlight. Until late Roman times it is unlikely that a raised stage
existed. The three actors and the members of the chorus appeared together in the dancing ring,
or orchestra. The performers were all men. Each actor might play several parts. There was no
elaborate scenery; the spectator had to rely chiefly on his own imagination for the setting
of the piece. The actors indulged in few lively movements or gestures. They must have looked
from a distance like a group of majestic statues. All wore elaborate costumes, and tragic actors,
in addition, were made to appear larger than human with masks, padding, and thick-soled boots,
or buskins. The performances occupied the three days of the Dionysiac festivals, beginning
early in the morning and lasting till night. All this time was necessary because they formed
contests for a prize which the people awarded to the poet and chorus whose presentation was
judged of highest excellence.

PANTOMIME AND VAUDEVILLE AT ROME

Pantomimes formed the staple amusement of the Roman theater. In these performances a single
dancer, by movements and gestures, represented mythological scenes and love stories. The actor
took several characters in succession and a chorus accompanied him with songs. There were also
"vaudeville" entertainments, with all manner of jugglers, ropedancers, acrobats, and clowns,
to amuse a people who found no pleasure in the refined productions of the Greek stage.

CHARIOT RACES

Far more popular than even pantomime and vaudeville were the "games of the circus." At Rome
these were held chiefly in the Circus Maximus. Chariot races formed the principal attraction
of the circus. There were usually four horses to a chariot, though sometimes the drivers showed
their skill by handling as many as six or seven horses. The contestants whirled seven times
around the low wall, or spina, which divided the race course. The shortness of the stretches
and the sharp turns about the spina must have prevented the attainment of great speed. A race,
nevertheless, was a most exciting sport. What we should call "fouling" was permitted and even
encouraged. The driver might turn his team against another or might endeavor to upset a rival's
car. It was a very tame contest that did not have its accompaniment of broken chariots, fallen
horses, and killed or injured drivers.

ANIMAL BAITINGS

The Circus Maximus was often used for a variety of animal shows. Fierce wild beasts, brought
from every quarter of the empire, were turned loose to slaughter one another, or to tear to
pieces condemned criminals. [16] More popular still were the contests between savage animals
and men. Such amusements did something to satisfy the lust for blood in the Roman populace--a
lust which was more completely satisfied by the gladiatorial combats.

GLADIATORIAL SHOWS

Exhibitions of gladiators were known in Italy long before they became popular at Rome. The
combats probably started from the savage practice of sacrificing prisoners or slaves at the
funeral of their master. Then the custom arose of allowing the victims a chance for their lives
by having them fight one another, the conquerors being spared for future battles. From this
it was but a step to keeping trained slaves as gladiators. During the imperial epoch the number
of such exhibitions increased greatly. The emperor Trajan, for example, to celebrate his victories
over the Dacians, [17] exhibited no less than ten thousand men within the space of four months.
The gladiators belonged to various classes, according to the defensive armor they wore and
the style of fighting they employed. When a man was wounded and unable to continue the struggle,
he might appeal to the spectators. He lifted his finger to plead for release; if he had fought
well, the people indicated their willingness to spare him by waving their handkerchiefs. If
the spectators were in a cruel mood, they turned down their thumbs as the signal for his deathblow.
These hideous exhibitions continued in different parts of the Roman Empire until the fifth
century of our era.

"BREAD AND THE GAMES OF THE CIRCUS."

Gladiatorial combats, chariot races, and dramatic shows were free performances. For the lower
classes in the Roman city they became the chief pleasure of life. The days of their celebration
were public holidays, which in the fourth century numbered no less than one hundred and seventy-five.
The once-sovereign people of Rome became a lazy, worthless rabble, fed by the state and amused
with the games. It was well said by an ancient satirist that the Romans wanted only two things
to make them happy--"bread and the games of the circus." [18]

93. SLAVERY

PLACE OF SLAVERY IN CLASSICAL LIFE

The private life of the Greeks and Romans, as described in the preceding pages, would have
been impossible without the existence of a large servile class. Slaves did much of the heavy
and disagreeable work in the ancient world, thus allowing the free citizen to engage in more
honorable employment or to pass his days in dignified leisure.

SOURCES OF SLAVES

The Greeks seem sometimes to have thought that only barbarians should be degraded to the condition
of servitude. Most Greek slaves, as a matter of fact, were purchased from foreign countries.
But after the Romans had subdued the Mediterranean world, their captives included not only
members of inferior races, but also the cultivated inhabitants of Greece, Egypt, and Asia Minor.
We hear of slaves at Rome who served as clerks, secretaries, librarians, actors, and musicians.
Their education was often superior to that of the coarse and brutal masters who owned them.

NUMBER AND CHEAPNESS OF SLAVES

The number of slaves, though great enough in Athens and other Greek cities, reached almost
incredible figures during the later period of Roman history. Every victorious battle swelled
the troops of captives sent to the slave markets at Rome. Ordinary slaves became as cheap as
beasts of burden are now. The Roman poet Horace tells us that at least ten slaves were necessary
for a gentleman in even moderate circumstances. Wealthy individuals, given to excessive luxury,
might number their city slaves by the hundreds, besides many more on their country estates.

SLAVES' TASKS

Slaves engaged in a great variety of occupations. They were domestic servants, farm laborers,
miners, artisans, factory hands, and even shopkeepers. Household slaves at Rome were employed
in every conceivable way. Each part of a rich man's residence had its special staff of servants.
The possession of a fine troop of slaves, dressed in handsome liveries, was a favorite method
of showing one's wealth and luxury.

TREATMENT OF SLAVES

It is difficult for us to realize the attitude of ancient peoples toward their slaves. They
were regarded as part of the chattels of the house--as on a level with domestic animals rather
than human beings. Though Athenian law forbade owners to kill their slaves or to treat them
cruelly, it permitted the corporal punishment of slaves for slight offenses. At Rome, until
the imperial epoch, [19] no restraints whatever existed upon the master's power. A slave was
part of his property with which he could do exactly as he pleased. The terrible punishments,
the beating with scourges which followed the slightest misconduct or neglect of duty, the branding
with a hot iron which a runaway slave received, the fearful penalty of crucifixion which followed
an attempt upon the owner's life--all these tortures show how hard was the lot of the bondman
in pagan Rome.

POSSIBILITIES OF FREEDOM

A slave, under some circumstances, could gain his freedom. In Greece, where many little states
constantly at war bordered one another, a slave could often run away to liberty. In a great
empire like Rome, where no boundary lines existed, this was usually impossible. Freedom, however,
was sometimes voluntarily granted. A master in his will might liberate his favorite slave,
as a reward for the faithful service of a lifetime. A more common practice permitted the slave
to keep a part of his earnings until he had saved enough to purchase his freedom.

PERMANENCE OF SLAVERY

Slavery in Greece and Italy had existed from the earliest times. It never was more flourishing
than in the great age of classical history. Nor did it pass away when the Roman world became
Christian. The spread of Christianity certainly helped to improve the lot of the slave and
to encourage his liberation. The Church, nevertheless, recognized slavery from the beginning.
Not until long after ancient civilization had perished did the curse of slavery finally disappear
from European lands. [20]

94. GREEK LITERATURE

EPIC POETRY

The literature of Greece begins with epic poetry. An epic may be defined as a long narrative
in verse, dealing with some large and noble theme. The earliest epic poetry of the Greeks was
inseparable from music. Wandering minstrels sang at feasts in the palaces of kings and accompanied
their lays with the music of the clear-toned lyre. In time, as his verse reached a more artistic
character, the singer was able to give up the lyre and to depend for effect solely on the poetic
power of his narrative. Finally, the scattered lays were combined into long poems. The most
famous are the Iliad and the Odyssey, works which the Greeks attributed to Homer. [21]

LYRIC POETRY

Several centuries after Homer the Greeks began to create a new form of poetic expression--lyric
poetry. In short poems, accompanied by the flute or the lyre, they found a medium for the expression
of personal feelings which was not furnished by the long and cumbrous epic. The greatest lyric
poet was Pindar. We still possess forty-four of his odes, which were written in honor of victorious
athletes at the Olympian and other national games. [22] Pindar's verses were so popular that
he became, as it were, the "poet laureate" of Greece. When Alexander the Great destroyed Thebes,
[23] the native town of Pindar, he spared that poet's birthplace from the general ruin.

ATHENIAN TRAGEDY

The three great masters of the tragic drama [24] lived and wrote in Athens during the splendid
half century between the Persian and the Peloponnesian wars. Such was the fertility of their
genius that they are said to have written altogether nearly three hundred plays. Only thirty-two
have come down to us. Aeschylus, the first of the tragic poets, had fought at Marathon and
Salamis. One of his works, the Persians, is a magnificent song of triumph for the victory of
Hellas. Sophocles, while yet a young man, gained the prize in a dramatic contest with Aeschylus.
His plays mark the perfection of Greek tragedy. After the death of Sophocles the Athenians
revered him as a hero and honored his memory with yearly sacrifices. Euripides was the third
of the Athenian dramatists and the most generally popular. His fame reached far beyond his
native city. We are told that the Sicilians were so fond of his verses that they granted freedom
to every one of the Athenian prisoners captured at Syracuse who could recite the poet's lines.

ATHENIAN COMEDY

Athenian comedy during the fifth century B.C. is represented by the plays of Aristophanes.
He was both a great poet and a great satirist. In one comedy Aristophanes attacks the demagogue
Cleon, who was prominent in Athenian politics after the death of Pericles. In other comedies
he ridicules the philosophers, makes fun of the ordinary citizen's delight in sitting on jury
courts and trying cases, and criticizes those responsible for the unfortunate expedition to
Sicily. The plays of Aristophanes were performed before admiring audiences of thousands of
citizens and hence must have had much influence on public opinion.

HISTORY

The "father of history," Herodotus, flourished about the middle of the fifth century B.C. Though
a native of Asia Minor, Herodotus spent some of the best years of his life at Athens, mingling
in its brilliant society and coming under the influences, literary and artistic, of that city.
He traveled widely in the Greek world and in the East, as a preparation for his great task
of writing an account of the rise of the Oriental nations and the struggle between Greece and
Persia. Herodotus was not a critical historian, diligently sifting truth from fable. Where
he can he gives us facts. Where facts are lacking, he tells interesting stories in a most winning
style. A much more scientific writer was Thucydides, an Athenian who lived during the epoch
of the Peloponnesian War and became the historian of that contest. An Athenian contemporary
of Thucydides, Xenophon, is best known from his Anabasis, which describes the famous expedition
of the "Ten Thousand" Greeks against Persia. [25]

BIOGRAPHY

Of the later prose writers of Greece it is sufficient to name only one-- the immortal Plutarch.
He was a native of Chaeronea in Boeotia and lived during the first century of our era. Greece
at that time was only a province of the Roman Empire; the days of her greatness had long since
passed away. Plutarch thus had rather a melancholy task in writing his Parallel Lives. In this
work he relates, first the life of an eminent Greek, then of a famous Roman who in some way
resembled him; and ends the account with a short comparison of the two men. Plutarch had a
wonderful gift of sympathy for his heroes and a keen eye for what was dramatic in their careers.
It is not surprising, therefore, that Plutarch has always been a favorite author. No other
ancient writer gives us so vivid and intimate a picture of the classical world.

ORIGINALITY OF GREEK LITERATURE

From the foregoing survey it is clear that the Greeks were pioneers in many forms of literature.
They first composed artistic epic poems. They invented lyric and dramatic poetry. They were
the first to write histories and biographies. In oratory, as has been seen, they also rose
to eminence. [26] We shall now find that the Greek intellect was no less fertile and original
in the study of philosophy.

95. GREEK PHILOSOPHY

THE SOPHISTS

The Greek philosophy took its rise in the seventh century B.C., when a few bold students began
to search out the mysteries of the universe. Their theories were so many and so contradictory,
however, that after a time philosophers gave up the study of nature and proposed in turn to
study man himself. These later thinkers were called sophists. They traveled throughout Greece,
gathering the young men about them and lecturing for pay on subjects of practical interest.
Among other things they taught the rhetoric and oratory which were needed for success in a
public career.

SOCRATES

One of the founders of Greek philosophy and the greatest teacher of his age was Socrates the
Athenian. He lived and taught during the period of the Peloponnesian War. Socrates resembled
the sophists in his possession of an inquiring, skeptical mind which questioned every common
belief and superstition. But he went beyond the sophists in his emphasis on problems of every-day
morality.

Though Socrates wrote nothing, his teaching and personality made a deep impression on his contemporaries.
The Delphic oracle declared that no one in the world was wiser than Socrates. Yet he lived
through a long life at Athens, a poor man who would neither work at his trade of sculptor,
nor (as did the sophists) accept money for his instruction. He walked the streets, barefoot
and half-clad, and engaged in animated conversation with anyone who was willing to discuss
intellectual subjects with him. Socrates must have been a familiar figure to the Athenians.
His short body, large, bald head, and homely features hardly presented the ideal of a philosopher.
Even Aristophanes in a comedy laughs at him.

CONDEMNATION AND DEATH OF SOCRATES

Late in life Socrates was accused of impiety and of corrupting the youth of Athens with his
doctrines. As a matter of fact he was a deeply religious man. If he objected to the crude mythology
of Homer, he often spoke of one God, who ruled the world, and of a divine spirit or conscience
within his own breast. A jury court found him guilty, however, and condemned him to death.
He refused to escape from prison when opportunity offered and passed his last days in eager
conversation on the immortality of the soul. When the hour of departure arrived, he bade his
disciples farewell and calmly drained the cup of hemlock, a poison that caused a painless death.
Although Socrates gave his life for his philosophy, this did not perish with him.

PLATO

One of the members of the Socratic circle was Plato, a wealthy noble who abandoned a public
career for the attractions of philosophy. After the death of Socrates, Plato traveled widely
in the Greek world and even visited Egypt, where he interviewed the learned priests. On his
return to Athens Plato began teaching in the garden and gymnasium called the Academy. [27]
His writings, known as Dialogues, are cast in the form of question and answer that Socrates
had used. In most of them Plato makes Socrates the chief speaker. Plato's works are both profound
in thought and admirable in style. The Athenians used to say that if Zeus had spoken Greek
he would have spoken it as did Plato.

ARISTOTLE

As great a philosopher as Plato, but a far less attractive writer, was Aristotle. He was not
an Athenian by birth, but he passed many years in Athens, first as a pupil of Plato, who called
him the "mind" of the school, and then as a teacher in the Athenian city. Aristotle seems to
have taken all knowledge for his province. He investigated the ideas underlying the arts of
rhetoric and poetry; he gathered the constitutions of many Greek states and drew from them
some general principles of politics; he studied collections of strange plants and animals to
learn their structure and habits; he examined the acts and beliefs of men in order to write
books on ethics. In all this investigation Aristotle was not content to accept what previous
men had written or to spin a pleasing theory out of his own brain. Everywhere he sought for
facts; everything he tried to bring to the test of personal observation. Aristotle, then, was
as much a scientist as a philosopher. His books were reverently studied for centuries after
his death and are still used in our universities.

EPICUREANISM

The system of philosophy called Epicureanism was founded by a Greek named Epicurus. He taught
in Athens during the earlier part of the third century B.C. Epicurus believed that pleasure
is the sole good, pain, the sole evil. He meant by pleasure not so much the passing enjoyments
of the hour as the permanent happiness of a lifetime. In order to be happy men should not trouble
themselves with useless luxuries, but should lead the "simple life." They must be virtuous,
for virtue will bring more real satisfaction than vice. Above all, men ought to free themselves
from idle hopes and fears about a future existence. The belief in the immortality of the soul,
said Epicurus, is only a delusion, for both soul and body are material things which death dissolves
into the atoms making up the universe. And if there are any gods, he declared, they do not
concern themselves with human affairs. Some of the followers of Epicurus seemed to find in
his philosophic system justification for free indulgence in every appetite and passion. Even
to-day, when we call a person an "Epicurean," we think of him as a selfish pleasure seeker.

STOICISM

The noblest of all pagan philosophies was Stoicism, founded by Zeno, a contemporary of Epicurus.
Virtue, said the Stoic, consists in living "according to nature," that is, according to the
Universal Reason or Divine Providence that rules the world. The followers of this philosophy
tried, therefore, to ignore the feelings and exalt the reason as a guide to conduct. They practiced
self-denial, despised the pomps and vanities of the world, and sought to rise above such emotions
as grief, fear, hope, and joy. The doctrines of Stoicism gained many adherents among the Romans
[28] and through them became a real moral force in the ancient world. Stoicism is even now
no outworn creed. Our very word "stoical" is a synonym for calm indifference to pleasure or
to pain.

96. ROMAN LITERATURE

RISE OF ROMAN LITERATURE

The beginnings of Roman literature go back to the third century B.C., when some knowledge of
the Greek language became increasingly common in Rome. The earlier writers--chiefly poets and
dramatists--did little original work, and usually were content to translate and adapt the productions
of Greek authors for Roman audiences. During this period the Romans gradually discovered the
capabilities of their language for prose composition. The republican institutions of Rome,
like those of Athens, were highly favorable to the art of public speaking. It was the development
of oratory which did most to mold the Latin language into fitness for the varied forms of prose.

CICERO

Cicero, the greatest of Roman orators, created a style for Latin prose composition which has
been admired and imitated by men of letters even to our own day. Latin, in his hands, became
a magnificent instrument for the expression of human thought. Cicero's qualities as an author
are shown, not only by his Orations, but also by the numerous Epistles which he wrote to friends
and correspondents in all parts of the Roman world. Besides their historical interest Cicero's
letters are models of what good letters ought to be--the expression of the writer's real thoughts
and feelings in simple, unstilted language. Cicero also composed a number of Dialogues, chiefly
on philosophical themes. If not very profound, they are delightfully written, and long served
as textbooks in the schools.

CAESAR

Another eminent statesman--Julius Caesar--won success in literature. As an orator he was admitted
by his contemporaries to stand second to Cicero. None of his speeches have survived. We possess,
however, his invaluable Commentaries on the Gallic and Civil wars. These works, though brief
and in most parts rather dull, are highly praised for their simple, concise style and their
mastery of the art of rapid narration.

VERGIL AND HORACE

The half century included within the Augustan Age marks a real epoch in the history of Latin
literature. The most famous poet of this period was Vergil. The Aeneid, which he undertook
at the suggestion of Augustus, is his best-known work. In form the poem is a narrative of the
adventures of the Trojan hero, Aeneas, [29] but its real theme is the growth of Rome under
the fostering care of the gods. The Aeneid, though unfinished at the author's death, became
at once what it has always remained--the only ancient epic worthy of comparison with the Iliad
or with the Odyssey. Another member of the Augustan circle was Vergil's friend and fellow-
worker, Horace. An imitative poet, Horace reproduced in Latin verse the forms, and sometimes
even the substance, of his Greek models. But, like Vergil, what Horace borrowed he made his
own by the added beauty which he gave to it. His Odes are perhaps the most admirable examples
of literary art to be found in any language.

LIVY

The most famous prose writer of the Augustan Age was Livy. His History of Rome, beginning with
Romulus and extending to Augustus, traced the rise and growth of the Roman state during eight
centuries of triumphal progress. It did in prose what Vergil's Aeneid had done in verse.

TACITUS

The period of the "Good Emperors" saw the rise of several important authors, of whom one, the
historian Tacitus, was a man of genius. The crowning labor of his life was a history of Rome
from Tiberius to Domitian. Of this work, issued under the two titles of Histories and Annals,
only about one-half is extant.

SURVIVAL OF ROMAN LITERATURE

Less than two hundred years separate Cicero and Tacitus. During this period Latin authors,
writing under the influence of old Greece, accomplished much valuable work. Some of their productions
are scarcely inferior to the Greek masterpieces. In later centuries, when Greek literature
was either neglected or forgotten in the West, the literature of Rome was still read and enjoyed.
Even to-day a knowledge of it forms an essential part of a "classical" education.

97. GREEK ARCHITECTURE

CHARACTERISTICS OF GREEK ARCHITECTURE

The existing monuments of Greek architecture--chiefly ruined temples-- afford some idea of
its leading characteristics. The building materials were limestone and white marble. The blocks
of stone were not bound together by cement, but by metal clamps which held them in a firm grip.
It was usual to color the ornamental parts of a temple and the open spaces that served as a
background for sculpture. The Greeks did not employ the principle of the arch, in order to
cover large spaces with a vaulted ceiling. Their temples and other public buildings had only
flat ceilings, resting on long rows of columns. The column probably developed from the wooden
post or tree trunk used in timber construction. The capital at the top of the column originated
in the square wooden slab which supported the heavy beam of the roof.

THE DORIC COLUMN

The two Greek orders of architecture, Doric and Ionic, [30] are distinguished mainly by differences
in the treatment of the column. The Doric column has no base of its own. The sturdy shaft is
grooved lengthwise with some twenty flutings. The capital is a circular band of stone capped
by a square block, all without decoration. The mainland of Greece was the especial home of
the Doric order. This was also the characteristic style of southern Italy and Sicily.

THE IONIC COLUMN.

The Ionic column rests upon a base. Its shaft is tall and slender. The beautifully carved capital
swells outward into two spiral rolls, the ends of which are curled under to form the "volutes."
The Ionic order flourished particularly in Asia Minor. It was well known, too, at Athens.

NATURE OF THE GREEK TEMPLE

The temple formed the chief structure in a Greek city. It was very simple in outline--merely
a rectangular building provided with doors, but without windows. Around it was a single or
a double row of columns. Above them rose the architrave, a plain band of massive stones which
reached from one column to another. Then came the frieze, adorned with sculptured reliefs,
then the horizontal cornice, and at the ends of the building the triangular pediments formed
by the sloping roof. The pediments were sometimes decorated with statues. Since the temple
was not intended to hold a congregation of worshipers, but only to contain the image of the
god, the interior usually had little ornamentation.

UNIQUENESS OF THE GREEK TEMPLE

Greek temples were not very large, for hugeness was no object to the builders. They were not
even lavishly decorated. Their beauty lies, most of all, in their harmonious proportions and
perfect symmetry. In the best examples of the Greek temple there are, for instance, no straight
lines. The columns are not set at equal intervals, but closer together near the corners of
the building. The shafts of the columns, instead of tapering upward at a uniform rate, swell
slightly toward the center. The artistic eyes of the Greeks delighted in such subtle curves.
These characteristics make a classical temple unique of its kind. [31]

98. GREEK SCULPTURE

THE GREEK GENIUS IN SCULPTURE

The greatest achievement of the Greeks in art was their sculpture. Roman artists surpassed
them in the creation of massive architectural works; modern artists have surpassed them in
painting. In sculpture the Greeks still remain unexcelled.

LOSS OF THE MASTERPIECES

The existing remains of Greek sculpture are very scanty. The statues of gold and ivory vanished
long ago. The bronze statues, formerly numbered by thousands, have nearly all gone into the
melting pot. Sculptures in marble were turned into mortar or used as building materials. Those
which escaped such a fate were often ruined by wanton mutilation and centuries of neglect.
The statues which we still possess are mainly marble copies, made in Roman times from Greek
originals. It is as if the paintings by the old masters of Europe, four centuries ago, were
now known only in the reproductions by modern artists of inferior powers.

MATERIALS

The Greek sculptor worked with a variety of materials. Wood was in common use during primitive
times. Terra cotta was employed at all periods for statuettes a few inches in height. Productions
in gold and ivory, from the costliness of these objects, were extremely rare. Bronze was the
favorite material of some of the most eminent artists. The Greek sculptor especially relied
on the beautiful marbles in which his country abounded.

TECHNICAL PROCESSES

The methods employed by the ancient sculptor differed in some respects from those followed
by his modern successors. A Greek marble statue was usually built up out of several parts.
The joining was accomplished with such skill as to escape ordinary observation. The preliminary
work of hewing out from the rough was done by means of chisels. The surface of the marble afterwards
received a careful polishing with the file, and also with sand. Marble statues were always
more or less painted. The coloring seems to have been done sparingly, being applied, as a rule,
only to the features and draperies. Still, it is worth while to remember that the pure white
statues of modern sculptors would not have satisfied Greek artists of the classical age.

VARIETIES OF GREEK SCUPLTURE

Greek sculpture existed in the two forms of bas-reliefs and statuary in the round. Reliefs
were chiefly used for temple pediments and friezes, and also for the many grave monuments.
Statues consisted of the images of the gods set up in their shrines, the sculptures dedicated
as offerings to divinities, and the figures of statesmen, generals, and victorious athletes
raised in public places and sanctuaries.

IMPORTANCE OF THE SCULPTOR'S ART

This list will show how many were the opportunities which the ancient sculptor enjoyed. The
service of religion created a constant demand for his genius. The numerous athletic contests
and the daily sports of the gymnasium gave him a chance to study living models in the handsome,
finely-shaped bodies of the contestants. With such inspiration it is not remarkable that sculpture
reached so high a development in ancient Greece. [32]

99. ROMAN ARCHITECTURE AND SCULPTURE

THE ARCH AND DOME IN ROMAN BUILDINGS

In architecture the Romans achieved preeminence. The temples and other public works of Greece
seem almost insignificant beside the stupendous edifices raised by Roman genius in every province
of the empire. The ability of the Romans to build on so large a scale arose from their use
of vaulted constructions. Knowledge of the round arch passed over from the Orient to the Etruscans
and from them to the Romans. [33] At first the arch was employed mainly for gates, drainage
sewers, aqueducts, and bridges. In imperial times this device was adopted to permit the construction
of vast buildings with overarching domes. The principle of the dome has inspired some of the
finest creations of ancient and modern architecture.

ROMAN USE OF CONCRETE AND RUBBLE

The Romans for many of their buildings made much use of concrete. Its chief ingredient was
pozzolana, a sand found in great abundance near Rome and other sites. When mixed with lime,
it formed a very strong cement. This material was poured in a fluid state into timber casings,
where it quickly set and hardened. Small pieces of stone, called rubble, were also forced down
into the cement to give it additional stability. Buildings of this sort were usually faced
with brick, which in turn might be covered with thin slabs of marble, thus producing an attractive
appearance.

TEMPLES

The triumphs of Roman architecture were not confined chiefly to sacred edifices. Roman temples,
indeed, are mostly copies from the Greek. In comparison with their originals, they lack grace
and refinement. There is less accuracy in the masonry fitting and far less careful attention
to details of construction. A frequent departure from Greek models is found in the restriction
of the rows of pillars to the front of the building, while the sides and rear are lined with
"engaged" columns to give the idea of a colonnade. [34] More characteristically Roman are vaulted
temples, such as the Pantheon, [35] where the circular dome is faced with a Greek portico.

BASILICAS

Roman basilicas, of which only the ruins are now in existence, were once found in every city.
These were large, lofty buildings for the use of judges and merchants. The chief feature of
a basilica was the spacious central hall flanked by a single or double row of columns, forming
aisles and supporting the flat roof. At one end of the hall was a semicircular recess--the
apse--where the judges held court. This arrangement of the interior bears a close resemblance
to the plan of the early Christian church with its nave, choir (or chancel) and columned aisles.
The Christians, in fact, seem to have taken the familiar basilicas as the models for their
places of worship.

AQUEDUCTS

Perhaps the most imposing, and certainly among the most useful, of Roman structures were aqueducts.
[36] There were sixty-eight in Italy and the provinces. No less than fourteen supplied the
capital city with water. The aqueducts usually ran under the surface of the ground, as do our
water pipes. They were carried on arches only across depressions and valleys. The Claudian
aqueduct ran for thirty-six miles underground and for nine and a half miles on arches. Though
these monuments were intended simply as engineering works, their heavy masses of rough masonry
produce an inspiring sense of power.

THERMAE

The abundant water supply furnished by the aqueducts was connected with a system of great public
baths, or thermae. [37] Scarcely a town or village throughout the empire lacked one or more
such buildings. Those at Rome were constructed on a scale of magnificence of which we can form
but a slight conception from the ruins now in existence. In addition to many elaborate arrangements
for the bathers, the thermae included lounging and reading rooms, libraries, gymnasia, and
even museums and galleries of art. The baths, indeed, were splendid clubhouses, open at little
or no expense to every citizen of the metropolis.

TRIUMPHAL ARCHES AND COLUMNS

A very characteristic example of Roman building is found in the triumphal arches. [38] Their
sides were adorned with bas-reliefs, which pictured the principal scenes of a successful campaign.
Memorial structures, called columns of victory, [39] were also set up in Rome and other cities.
Both arch and column have been frequently imitated by modern architects.

CIRCUSES, THEATERS, AND AMPHITHEATERS

The palaces of Roman emperors and nobles, together with their luxurious country houses, or
villas, have all disappeared. A like fate has befallen the enormous circuses, such as the Circus
Maximus [40] at Rome and the Hippodrome [41] at Constantinople. The Roman theaters that still
survive reproduce, in most respects, the familiar outlines of the Greek structures. In the
amphitheaters, where animal shows and gladiatorial combats were exhibited, we have a genuinely
Roman invention. The gigantic edifice, called the Colosseum, in its way as truly typifies Roman
architectural genius as the Parthenon represents at its best that of the Greeks.

ROMAN SCULPTURE

Roman sculpture owed much to Greek models. However, the portrait statues and bas-reliefs show
originality and illustrate the tendency of the Romans toward realism in art. The sculptor tried
to represent an historic person as he really looked or an historic event, for example, a battle
or a triumphal procession, as it actually happened. The portrait statues of Roman emperors
and the bas-reliefs from the arch of Titus impress us at once with a sense of their reality.

WALL PAINTINGS

Our knowledge of Roman painting is almost wholly confined to the wall paintings found at Rome,
Herculaneum, and Pompeii. What has survived is apparently the work of ordinary craftsmen, who,
if not Greeks, were deeply affected by the Greek spirit. Most of the scenes they depict are
taken from classical mythology. The coloring is very rich; and the peculiar shade of red used
is known to-day by the name of "Pompeian red." The practice of mural painting passed over from
the Romans to European artists, who have employed it in the frescoes of medieval and modern
churches.

100. ARTISTIC ATHENS

ART CENTERS OF ANTIQUITY

Athens and Rome were the artistic centers of the classical world. Architects, sculptors, and
painters lavished their finest efforts on the adornment of these two capitals. Here there are
still to be seen some of the most beautiful and impressive monuments of antiquity.

ROADS AND SUBURBS OF ATHENS

Athens lies in the center of the Attic plain, about four miles from the sea. [42] The city
commands a magnificent view of purple-hued mountains and the shining waters of the Aegean.
Roads approached the ancient city from all parts of Attica. Among these were the highway from
Piraeus, running between the Long Walls, [43] and the Sacred Way from Eleusis, where the famous
mysteries were yearly celebrated. [44] The suburbs of Athens included the Outer Ceramicus,
part of which was used as a national cemetery, and a pleasure ground and gymnasium on the banks
of the Cephissus, called the Academy. Another resort, known as the Lyceum, bordered the little
stream of the Ilissus.

WALLS OF ATHENS

The traveler who passed through these suburbs came at length to the great wall, nearly five
miles in circumference, raised by Themistocles to surround the settlement at the foot of the
Acropolis. [45] The area included within this wall made up Old Athens. About six centuries
after Themistocles the Roman emperor Hadrian, by building additional fortifications on the
east, brought an extensive quarter, called New Athens, inside the city limits.

HILLS OF ATHENS

The region within the walls was broken up by a number of rocky eminences which have a prominent
place in the topography of Athens. Near the center the Acropolis rises more than two hundred
feet above the plain, its summit crowned with monuments of the Periclean Age. Not far away
is the hill called the Areopagus. Here the Council of the Areopagus, a court of justice in
trials for murder, held its deliberations in the open air. Beyond this height is the hill of
the Pnyx. This was the meeting place of the Athenian Assembly until the fourth century B.C.,
when the sessions were transferred to the theater of Dionysus.

THE AGORA

The business and social center of an ancient city was the agora or market place. The Athenian
Agora lay in the hollow north of the Areopagus and Acropolis. The square was shaded by rows
of plane trees and lined with covered colonnades. In the great days of the city, when the Agora
was filled with countless altars and shrines, it presented a most varied and attractive scene.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

Not all the splendid structures in Athens were confined to the Agora and the Acropolis. On
a slight eminence not far from the Agora, rose the so- called "Theseum," [46] a marble temple
in the Doric order. Another famous temple, the colossal edifice known as the Olympieum, lay
at some distance from the Acropolis on the southeast. Fifteen of the lofty columns with their
Corinthian capitals are still standing. The theater of Dionysus [47] is in a fair state of
preservation. Beyond this are the remains of the Odeum, or "Hall of Song," used for musical
contests and declamations. The original building was raised by Pericles, in imitation, it is
said, of the tent of Xerxes. The present ruins are those of the structure erected in the second
century A.D. by a public-spirited benefactor of Athens.

THE ACROPOLIS

The adornment of the Acropolis formed perhaps the most memorable achievement of Pericles. [48]
This rocky mount was approached on the western side by a flight of sixty marble steps. To the
right of the stairway rose a small but very beautiful Ionic temple dedicated to Athena. Having
mounted the steps, the visitor passed through the superb entrance gate, or Propylaea, which
was constructed to resemble the front of a temple with columns and pediment. Just beyond the
Propylaea stood a great bronze statue of the Guardian Athena, a masterpiece of the sculptor
Phidias.

THE ERECHTHEUM

The Erechtheum, a temple which occupies part of the Acropolis, is in the Ionic style. It may
be regarded as the best existing example of this light and graceful order. Perhaps the most
interesting feature is the porch of the Caryatides, with a marble roof supported by six pillars
carved in the semblance of maidens. [49] This curious but striking device has been often copied
by modern architects.

ARCHITECTURE OF THE PARTHENON

The other temple on the Acropolis is the world-famed edifice known as the Parthenon, the shrine
of the Virgin of the Athena. [50] The Parthenon illustrates the extreme simplicity of a Greek
temple. It had no great size or height and included only two chambers. The rear room stored
sacred vessels and furniture used in worship, state treasure, and the more valuable offerings
intrusted to the goddess for safekeeping. The second and larger room contained a colossal gold
and ivory statue of Athena, the work of Phidias. It faced the eastern entrance so that it might
be bathed in the rays of the rising sun. Apart from the large doors a certain amount of light
reached the interior through the semi-transparent marble tiles of the roof. The Doric columns
surrounding the building are marvels of fine workmanship. The Parthenon, because of its perfection
of construction and admirable proportions, is justly regarded as a masterpiece of architecture.

SCULPTURES OF THE PARTHENON

The Parthenon was also remarkable for its sculptures [51] executed under the superintendence
of Phidias. The subjects of the pediment sculptures are taken from the mythic history of Athena.
The frieze of the Parthenon consists of a series of sculptured slabs, over five hundred feet
in length. The subject was the procession of the Great Panathenaea, [52] the principal festival
in honor of Athena. At this time the sacred robe of the goddess, woven anew for each occasion,
was brought to adorn her statue. The procession is thought of as starting from the western
front, where Athenian youths dash forward on their spirited steeds. Then comes a brilliant
array of maidens, matrons, soldiers, and luteplayers. Near the center of the eastern front
they meet a group of divinities, who are represented as spectators of the imposing scene. This
part of the frieze is still in excellent condition.

THE GLORY OF ATHENS

It was, indeed, a splendid group of buildings that rose on the Acropolis height. If to-day
they have lost much of their glory, we can still understand how they were the precious possession
of the Athenians and the wonder of all the ancient world. "O shining, violet-crowned city of
song, great Athens, bulwark of Hellas, walls divine!" The words are those of an old Greek poet,
[53] but they are reechoed by all who have come under the magic spell of the literature and
art of the Athenian city.

101. ARTISTIC ROME

DESTRUCTION OF ANCIENT ROME

The monuments of Rome, unlike those of Athens, cannot lay claim to great antiquity. The destruction
wrought by the Gauls in 390 B.C. and the great fire under Nero in 64 A.D. removed nearly all
traces of the regal and republican city. Many buildings erected in the imperial age have also
disappeared, because in medieval and modern times the inhabitants of Rome used the ancient
edifices as quarries. The existing monuments give only a faint idea of the former magnificence
of the capital city.

HILLS OF ROME

The city of Rome lies on the Tiber. Where the river approaches Rome it makes two sharp turns,
first to the west and then to the east. On the western, or Etruscan, bank stood the two hills
called Vatican and Janiculum. They were higher than the famous seven which rose on the eastern
side, where the ancient city was built. Two of these seven hills possess particular interest.
The earliest settlement, as we have seen, [54] probably occupied the Palatine. It became in
later days the favorite site for the town houses of Roman nobles. In the imperial age the splendid
palaces of the Caesars were located here. The Capitoline, steepest of the seven hills, was
divided into two peaks. On one of these rose the most famous of all Roman temples, dedicated
to Jupiter and his companion deities, Juno and Minerva. The other peak was occupied by a large
temple of Juno Moneta ("the Adviser"), which served as the mint. The altars, shrines, and statues
which once covered this height were so numerous that the Capitoline, like the Athenian Acropolis,
became a museum of art.

WALLS AND OPEN SPACES

Rome in early times was surrounded by a wall which bore the name of its legendary builder,
Servius Tullius. The present fortifications were not constructed until the reign of the emperor
Aurelian. [55] The ancient city was closely built up, with only two great open spaces, in addition
to the Forum. These were the Circus Maximus, in the hollow between the Palatine Mount and the
Aventine, and the Campus Martius, stretching along the Tiber to the northwest of the Capitoline
Hill.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

Following the map of ancient Rome under the empire we may note the more important monuments
which still exist in something like their original condition. Across the Tiber and beyond the
Campus Martius stands the mausoleum of Hadrian. [56] The most notable structure in the Campus
Martius is the Pantheon. [57] It is the one ancient building in the entire Roman world which
still survives, inside and out, in a fair state of preservation. The depression between the
Caelian and Esquiline hills contains the Flavian Amphitheater, better known as the Colosseum.
[58] It was begun by Vespasian and probably completed by Titus. No less than eighty entrances
admitted the forty-five thousand spectators who could be accommodated in this huge structure.
Despite the enormous mass of the present ruins probably two-thirds of the original materials
have been carried away to be used in other buildings. Close to the Colosseum stands the arch
[59] erected by the Senate in honor of the victory of Constantine over his rival Maxentius.
From this event is dated the triumph of Christianity in the Roman state. The ruins of the huge
baths of Caracalla lie about half a mile from the Colosseum. Near the center of the city are
the remains of the Forum added by Trajan to the accommodations of the original Forum. It contains
the column of Trajan [60] under which that emperor was buried.

THE FORUM

The Forum lies in the valley north of the Palatine Hill. It was the business and social center
of the Roman city. During the Middle Ages the site was buried in ruins and rubbish, in some
places to a depth of forty feet or more. Recent excavations have restored the ancient level
and uncovered the remains of the ancient structures.

APPROACH TO THE FORUM

The Forum could be approached from the east by one of the most famous streets in the world,
the Roman Sacred Way. The illustration of the Forum at the present time gives a view, looking
eastward from the Capitoline Mount, and shows several of the buildings on or near the Sacred
Way. At the left are seen the ruins of the basilica of Constantine. Farther in the distance
the Colosseum looms up. Directly ahead is the arch of Titus, which commemorates the capture
of Jerusalem in 70 A.D. [61] The ruins of the palaces of the Caesars occupy the slopes of the
Palatine.

THE FORUM TO-DAY

The only well-preserved monument in the Forum is the beautiful arch erected by the emperor
Septimius Severus. Beyond it are three columns which once formed part of the temple of Castor.
They date from the time of Tiberius. In front are the foundations of the Basilica Julia, built
by Augustus. Next come eight Ionic columns, all that remain of the temple of Saturn. Near it
and in the foreground are several columns in the Corinthian style, belonging to a temple built
by Vespasian.

THE FORUM IN ANTIQUITY

These ruined monuments, these empty foundations and lonely pillars, afford little idea of all
the wealth of architecture that once adorned this spot. Here stood the circular shrine of Vesta,
[62] guarding the altar and its ever-blazing fire. Here was the temple of Concord, famous in
Roman history. [63] The Senate-house was here, and just before it, the Rostra, a platform adorned
with the beaks (rostra) of captured ships. From this place Roman orators addressed their assembled
fellow-citizens.

THE GRANDEUR OF ROME

How splendid a scene must have greeted an observer in ancient times who, from the height of
the Capitol, gazed at the city before him. The Forum was then one radiant avenue of temples,
triumphal arches, columns, and shrines. And beyond the Forum stretched a magnificent array
of theaters and amphitheaters, enormous baths, colossal sepulchers, and statues in stone and
bronze. So prodigious an accumulation of objects beautiful, costly, and rare has never before
or since been found on earth.

STUDIES

1. What is the origin of our words pedagogue, symposium, circus, and academy?

2. Make a list of such Roman names as you have met in your reading.

3. Write a letter describing an imaginary visit to the theater of Dionysus during the performance
of a tragedy.

4. What did civic patriotism mean to the Greek and to the Roman?

5. Have we anything to learn from the Greeks about the importance of training in music?

6. What were the schoolbooks of Greek boys?

7. What features of Athenian education are noted in the illustration, page 254?

8. How did the position of women at Athens differ from their position in Homeric Greece?

9. Why does classical literature contain almost no "love stories," or novels?

10. What contrasts exist between the ancient and the modern house?

11. Describe a Roman litter (illustration, page 263).

12. What differences exist between an ancient and a modern theatre?

13. What features of our "circus" recall the proceedings at the Roman games?

14. How many holidays (including Sundays) are there in your state? How do they compare in number
with those at Rome in the reign of Marcus Aurelius?

15. Describe the theater of Dionysus (illustration, page 264).

16. What is the "Socratic method" of teaching?

17. How did the Greeks manage to build solidly without the use of mortar?

18. Discuss the appropriateness of the terms: severe Doric; graceful Ionic; ornate Corinthian.

19. Can you find examples of any of the Greek orders in public buildings familiar to you?

20. How do you explain the almost total loss of original Greek sculptures?

21. By reference to the illustrations, page 279, explain the following terms: shaft; capital;
architrave; frieze; and cornice.

22. Explain the "Greek profile" seen in the Aphrodite of Cnidus and the Apollo of the Belvedere
(plate facing page 76).

23. Name five famous works of Greek sculpture which exist to-day only in Roman copies.

24. What is your favorite Greek statue? Why do you like it?

25. "The dome, with the round arch out of which it sprang, is the most fertile conception in
the whole history of building." Justify this statement.

26. What famous examples of domed churches and public buildings are familiar to you?

27. What artistic objections to the use of "engaged columns" can you mention?

28. Discuss the revival of cement construction in modern times. What are its special advantages?

29. What examples of triumphal arches in the United States and France are known to you?

30. Do you know of any modern columns of victory?

31. Why is it likely that the bust of Nerva (illustration, page 200) is a more faithful likeness
than that of Pericles (illustration, page 103)?

32. Write a brief essay describing an imaginary walk on the Athenian Acropolis in the Age of
Pericles.

33.

[2] Euripides, Iphigenia in Tauris, 57.

[3] See page 237.

[4] In "Marcus Tullius Cicero," "Marcus," the praenomen, corresponds to our "given" name; "Tullius,"
the nomen, marks the clan, or gens; "Cicero," the cognomen, indicates the family.

[5] See pages 151, 206.

[6] See page 218.

[7] See page 148.

[8] See page 144.

[9] See the illustrations, pages 117, 271.

[10] The corresponding names of women's garments were stola and pallet.

[11] See page 199.

[12] See the illustration, page 145.

[13] See page 288.

[14] See page 285.

[15] Panathenaic means 'belonging to all the Athenians.' See page 292.

[16] See page 234.

[17] See page 200.

[18] Panem et circenses (Juvenal x, 80-81).

[19] See page 215.

[20] See pages 436, 463.

[21] See page 73.

[22] See page 80.

[23] See page 120.

[24] See page 265.

[25] See page 121.

[26] See page 117.

[27] See page 261.

[28] See page 226.

[29] See page 142.

[30] The so-called Corinthian order differs from the Ionic only in its capital.

[31] For illustrations of Greek temples, see pages 89, 101.

[32] For illustrations of Greek statues see pages 80, 81, 103, 117, 119, 129, 271 and the plates
facing pages 76, 77, 80, 130, 131.

[33] See pages 61, 138.

[34] See the illustration, page 215.

[35] See the illustration, page 202.

[36] See the illustrations, pages 157, 285.

[37] See page 263.

[38] See the illustration, page 236.

[39] See the illustrations, pages 163, 201.

[40] See the illustration, page 266.

[41] See the illustration, page 339.

[42] See the map, page 107.

[43] See page 108.

[44] See page 227.

[45] See page 100.

[46] See the illustration, page 101.

[47] See the illustration, page 264.

[48] See page 108.

[49] See the plate facing page 281.

[50] See the plate facing page 280.

[51] See the plate facing page 281.

[52] See page 264.

[53] Pindar, Fragments, 76.

[54] See page 140.

[55] See the illustration, page 220.

[56] See the illustration, page 203.

[57] See the illustration, page 202.

[58] See the illustration, page 286.

[59] See the illustration, page 236.

[60] See the illustration, page 201.

[61] See the plate facing page 198.

[62] See page 146.

[63] See page 177. THE OSTROGOTHS IN ITALY, 488-553 A.D.

TRANSITION TO THE MIDDLE AGES

We are not to suppose that the settlement of Germans within the Roman Empire ended with the
deposition of Romulus Augustulus, near the close of the fifth century. The following centuries
witnessed fresh invasions and the establishment of new Germanic states. The study of these
troubled times leads us from the classical world to the world of medieval Europe, from the
history of antiquity to the history of the Middle Ages.

THE OSTROGOTHS UNDER THEODORIC

The kingdom which Odoacer established on Italian soil did not long endure. It was soon overthrown
by the Ostrogoths. At the time of the "fall" of Rome in 476 A.D. they occupied a district south
of the middle Danube, which the government at Constantinople had hired them to defend. The
Ostrogoths proved to be expensive and dangerous allies. When, therefore, their chieftain, Theodoric,
offered to lead his people into Italy and against Odoacer, the Roman emperor gladly sanctioned
the undertaking.

OSTROGOTHIC INVASION OF ITALY, 488-493 A.D.

Theodoric led the Ostrogoths--women and children as well as warriors-- across the Alps and
came down to meet Odoacer and his soldiers in battle. After suffering several defeats, Odoacer
shut himself up in the strong fortress of Ravenna. Theodoric could not capture the place and
at last agreed to share with Odoacer the government of Italy, if the latter would surrender.
The agreement was never carried into effect. When Theodoric entered Ravenna, he invited Odoacer
to a great feast and at its conclusion slew him in cold blood. Theodoric had now no rival in Italy.

THEODORIC KING OF ITALY, 493-526 A.D.

Though Theodoric gained the throne by violence and treachery, he soon showed himself to be,
as a ruler, wise, broad-minded, and humane. He had lived as a youth in the imperial court at
Constantinople and there had become well acquainted with Roman ideas of law and order. Roman
civilization impressed him; and he wished not to destroy but to preserve it. Theodoric reigned
in Italy for thirty-three years, and during this time the country enjoyed unbroken peace and
prosperity.

THEODORIC'S RULE IN ITALY.

The enlightened policy of Theodoric was exhibited in many ways. He governed Ostrogoths and
Romans with equal consideration. He kept all the old offices, such as the senatorship and the
consulate, and by preference filled them with men of Roman birth. His chief counselors were
Romans. A legal code, which he drew up for the use of Ostrogoths and Romans alike, contained
only selections from Roman law. He was remarkably tolerant and, in spite of the fact that the
Ostrogoths were Arians, [2] was always ready to extend protection to Catholic Christians. Theodoric
patronized literature and gave high positions to Roman writers. He restored the cities of Italy,
had the roads and aqueducts repaired, and so improved the condition of agriculture that Italy,
from a wheat-importing, became a wheat-exporting, country. At Ravenna, the Ostrogothic capital,
Theodoric erected many notable buildings, including a palace, a mausoleum, and several churches.
The remains of these structures are still to be seen.

THEODORIC'S FOREIGN POLICY

The influence of Theodoric reached far beyond Italy. He allied himself by marriage with most
of the Germanic rulers of the West. His second wife was a Frankish foreign princess, his sister
was the wife of a Vandal chieftain, one of his daughters married a king of the Visigoths, and
another daughter wedded a Burgundian king. Theodoric by these alliances brought about friendly
relations between the various barbarian peoples. It seemed, in fact, as if the Roman dominions
in the West might again be united under a single ruler; as if the Ostrogoths might be the Germanic
people to carry on the civilizing work of Rome. But no such good fortune was in store for Europe.

END OF THE OSTROGOTHIC KINGDOM, 553 A.D.

Theodoric died in 526 A.D. The year after his death, a great emperor, Justinian, came to the
throne at Constantinople. Justinian had no intention of abandoning to the Ostrogothic Germans
the rich provinces of Sicily and Italy. Although the Ostrogoths made a stubborn resistance
to his armies, in the end they were so completely overcome that they agreed to withdraw from
the Italian peninsula. The feeble remnant of their nation filed sadly through the passes of
the Alps and, mingling with other barbarian tribes, disappeared from history.

103. THE LOMBARDS IN ITALY, 568-774 A.D.

INVASION OF ITALY BY THE LOMBARDS

The destruction of the Ostrogothic kingdom did not free Italy of the Germans. Soon after Justinian's
death the country was again overrun, this time by the Lombards. The name of these invaders
(in Latin, Langobardi) may have been derived from the long beards that gave them such a ferocious
aspect. The Lombards were the last of the Germanic peoples to quit their northern wilderness
and seek new homes in sunny Italy. They seized the territory north of the river Po--a region
ever since known as Lombardy-- and established their capital at Pavia. The Lombards afterwards
made many settlements in central and southern Italy, but never succeeded in subduing the entire
peninsula.

LOMBARD RULE IN ITALY

The rule of the Lombards at first bore hardly on Italy, which they treated as a conquered land.
In character they seem to been far less attractive than their predecessors the Visigoths and
Ostrogoths. Many of them were still heathen when they entered Italy and others were converts
to the Arian [3] form of Christianity. In course of time, however, the Lombards accepted Roman
Catholicism and adopted the customs of their subjects. They even forgot their Germanic language
and learned to speak Latin. The Lombard kingdom lasted over two centuries, until it was overthrown
by the Franks. [4]

RESULTS OF THE LOMBARD INVASION

The failure of the Lombards to conquer all Italy had important results in later history. Sicily
and the extreme southern part of the Italian peninsula, besides large districts containing
the cities of Naples, Rome, Genoa, Venice, and Ravenna, continued to belong to the Roman Empire
in the East. The rulers at Constantinople could not exercise effective control over their Italian
possessions, now that these were separated from one another by the Lombard territories. The
consequence was that Italy broke up into a number of small and practically independent states,
which never combined into one kingdom until our own time. The ideal of a united Italy waited
thirteen hundred years for its realization. [5]

104. THE FRANKS UNDER CLOVIS AND HIS SUCCESSORS

CLOVIS, KING OF THE FRANKS, 481-511 A.D.

We have already met the Franks in their home on the lower Rhine, from which they pushed gradually
into Roman territory. [6] In 486 A.D., just ten years after the deposition of Romulus Augustulus,
the Franks went forth to conquer under Clovis, [7] one of their chieftains. By overcoming the
governor of Roman Gaul, in a battle near Soissons, Clovis destroyed the last vestige of imperial
rule in the West and extended the Frankish dominions to the river Loire. Clovis then turned
against his German neighbors. East of the Franks, in the region now known as Alsace, lived
the Alamanni, a people whose name still survives in the French name of Germany. [8] The Alamanni
were defeated in a great battle near Strassburg (496 A.D.), and much of their territory was
added to that of the Franks. Clovis subsequently conquered the Visigothic possessions between
the Loire and the Pyrenees, and compelled the Burgundians to pay tribute. Thus Clovis made
himself supreme over nearly the whole of Gaul and even extended his authority to the other
side of the Rhine. This great work entitles him to be called the founder of the French nation.

THE FRANKS AND THE GALLO-ROMANS

Clovis reigned in western Europe as an independent king, but he acknowledged a sort of allegiance
to the Roman emperor by accepting the title of honorary consul. Henceforth to the Gallo-Romans
he represented the distant ruler at Constantinople. The Roman inhabitants of Gaul were not
oppressed; their cities were preserved; and their language and laws were undisturbed. Clovis,
as a statesman, may be compared with his eminent contemporary, Theodoric the Ostrogoth.

CHRISTIANIZATION OF THE FRANKS, 496 A.D.

The Franks were still a heathen people, when they began their career of conquest. Clovis, however,
had married a Burgundian princess, Clotilda, who was a devout Catholic and an ardent advocate
of Christianity. The story is told how, when Clovis was hard-pressed by the Alamanni at the
battle of Strassburg, he vowed that if Clotilda's God gave him victory he would become a Christian.
The Franks won, and Clovis, faithful to his vow, had himself baptized by St. Remi, bishop of
Reims. "Bow down thy head," spoke the bishop, as the Frankish king approached the font, "adore
what thou hast burned, burn what thou has adored." [9] With Clovis were baptized on that same
day three thousand of his warriors.

SIGNIFICANCE OF CLOVIS'S CONVERSION

The conversion of Clovis was an event of the first importance. He and his Franks naturally
embraced the orthodox Catholic faith, which was that of his wife, instead of the Arian form
of Christianity, which had been accepted by almost all the other Germanic invaders. Thus, by
what seems the merest accident, Catholicism, instead of Arianism, became the religion of a
large part of western Europe. More than this, the conversion of Clovis gained for the Frankish
king and his successors the support of conversion the Roman Church. The friendship between
the popes and the Franks afterwards ripened into a close alliance which greatly influenced
European history.

THE EARLIER MEROVINGIAN KINGS

The descendants of Clovis are called Merovingians. [10] They occupied the throne of the Franks
for nearly two hundred and fifty years. The annals of their reigns form an unpleasant catalogue
of bloody wars, horrible murders, and deeds of treachery without number. Nevertheless, the
earlier Merovingians were strong men, under whose direction the Frankish territory continued
to expand, until it included nearly all of what is now France, Belgium, and Holland, besides
a considerable part of Germany.

CHARACTER OF THE FRANKISH CONQUESTS

The Frankish conquests differed in two important respects from those of the other Germanic
peoples. In the first place, the Franks did not cut themselves off completely from their original
homes. They kept permanently their territory in Germany, drawing from it continual reinforcements
of fresh German blood. In the second place, the Franks steadily added new German lands to their
possessions. They built up in this way what was the largest and the most permanent of all the
barbarian states founded on the ruins of the Roman Empire.

105. THE FRANKS UNDER CHARLES MARTEL AND PEPIN THE SHORT

THE LATER MEROVINGIAN KINGS

After the middle of the seventh century the Frankish rulers, worn out by violence and excesses,
degenerated into weaklings, who reigned but did not rule. The actual management of the state
passed into the hands of officers, called "mayors of the palace." They left to the kings little
more than their title, their long hair,--the badge of royalty among the Franks,--and a scanty
allowance for their support. The later Merovingians, accordingly, are often known as the "do-nothing
kings."

CHARLES MARTEL

The most illustrious of these mayors was Charles, surnamed Martel, "the Hammer," from the terrible
defeat which he administered to the Mohammedans near Tours, in central France. [11] Charles
Martel was virtually a king, but he never ventured to set aside the Merovingian ruler and himself
ascend the throne. This step was taken, however, by Charles's son, Pepin the Short.

PEPIN THE SHORT BECOMES KING OF THE FRANKS, 751 A.D.

Before dethroning the last feeble "do-nothing," Pepin sought the approval of the bishop of
Rome. The pope, without hesitation, declared that it was only right that the man who had the
real authority in the state should have the royal title also. Pepin, accordingly, caused himself
to be crowned king of the Franks, thus founding the Carolingian [12] dynasty. (751 A.D.). Three
years later Pope Stephen II came to Pepin's court and solemnly anointed the new ruler with
holy oil, in accordance with ancient Jewish custom. The rite of anointing, something unknown
to the Germans, gave to Pepin's coronation the sanction of the Roman Church. Henceforth the
Frankish sovereigns called themselves "kings by the grade of God."

"DONATION OF PEPIN," 756 A.D.

Pepin was soon able to repay his great obligation to the Roman Church by becoming its protector
against the Lombards. These barbarians, who were trying to extend their rule in Italy, threatened
to capture Rome and the territory in the vicinity of that city, then under the control of the
pope. Pepin twice entered Italy with his army, defeated the Lombards, and forced them to cede
to Pope Stephen an extensive district lying between Rome and Ravenna. Pepin might have returned
this district to the emperor at Constantinople, to whom it belonged, but the Frankish king
declared that he had not fought for the advantage of any man but for the welfare of his own
soul. He decided, therefore, to bestow his conquests on St. Peter's representative, the pope.
Before this time the bishops of Rome had owned much land in Italy and had acted as virtual
sovereigns in Rome and its neighborhood. Pepin's gift, known as the "Donation of Pepin," greatly
increased their possessions, which came to be called the States of the Church. They remained
in the hands of the popes until late in the nineteenth century. [13]

106. THE REIGN OF CHARLEMAGNE, 768-814 A.D.

CHARLEMAGNE THE MAN

Pepin was succeeded in 768 A.D. by his two sons, one of whom, Charlemagne, three years later
became sole king of the Franks. Charlemagne reigned for nearly half a century, and during this
time he set his stamp on all later European history. His character and personality are familiar
to us from a brief biography, written by his secretary, Einhard. Charlemagne, we learn, was
a tall, square-shouldered, strongly built man, with bright, keen eyes, and an expression at
once cheerful and dignified. Riding, hunting, and swimming were his favorite sports. He was
simple in his tastes and very temperate in both food and drink. Except when in Rome, he wore
the old Frankish costume, with high-laced boots, linen tunic, blue cloak, and sword girt at
his side. He was a clear, fluent speaker, used Latin as readily as his native tongue, and understood
Greek when it was spoken. "He also tried to learn to write and often kept his tablets and writing
book under the pillow of his couch, that, when he had leisure, he might practice his hand in
forming letters; but he made little progress in this task, too long deferred and begun too
late in life." [14] For the times, however, Charlemagne was a well-educated man--by no means
a barbarian.

CONQUEST AND CONVERSION OF THE SAXONS, 772-804 A.D.

Much of Charlemagne's long life, almost to its close, was filled with warfare. He fought chiefly
against the still-heathen peoples on the frontiers of the Frankish realm. The subjugation of
the Saxons, who lived in the forests and marshes of northwestern Germany, took many years.
Charlemagne at the head of a great army would invade their territory, beat them in battle,
and receive their submission, only to find his work undone by a sudden rising of the liberty-loving
natives, after the withdrawal of the Franks. Once when Charlemagne was exasperated by a fresh
revolt, he ordered forty-five hundred prisoners to be executed. This savage massacre was followed
by equally severe laws, which threatened with death all Saxons who refused baptism or observed
the old heathen rites. By such harsh means Charlemagne at length broke down the spirit of resistance
among the people. All Saxony, from the Rhine to the Elbe, became a Christian land and a permanent
part of the Frankish realm.

CONQUEST OF THE LOMBARDS, 774 A.D.

Shortly after the beginning of the Saxon wars the king of the Franks received an urgent summons
from the pope, who was again being threatened by his old enemies, the Lombards. Charlemagne
led a mighty host across the Alps, captured Pavia, where the Lombard ruler had taken refuge,
and added his possessions to those of the Franks. Thus passed away one more of the Germanic
states which had arisen on the ruins of the Roman Empire. Charlemagne now placed on his own
head the famous "Iron Crown," and assumed the title of "King of the Franks and Lombards, and
Patrician of the Romans."

CHARLEMAGNE'S OTHER CONQUESTS

Charlemagne's conquests were not confined to Germanic peoples. He forced the wild Avars, who
had advanced from the Caspian into the Danube valley, to acknowledge his supremacy. He compelled
various Slavic tribes, including the Bohemians, to pay tribute. He also invaded Spain and wrested
from the Moslems the district between the Ebro River and the Pyrenees. By this last conquest
Charlemagne may be said to have begun the recovery of the Spanish peninsula from Mohammedan
rule. [15]

CHARLEMAGNE'S GOVERNMENT

Charlemagne was a statesman, as well as a warrior. He divided his wide dominions into counties,
each one ruled by a count, who was expected to keep order and administer justice. The border
districts, which lay exposed to invasion, were organized into "marks," under the military supervision
of counts of the mark, or margraves (marquises). These officials had so much power and lived
so far from the royal court that it was necessary for Charlemagne to appoint special agents,
called missi dominici ("the lord's messengers"), to maintain control over them. The missi were
usually sent out in pairs, a layman and a bishop or abbot, in order that the one might serve
as a check upon the other. They traveled from county to county, bearing the orders of their
royal master and making sure that these orders were promptly obeyed. In this way Charlemagne
kept well informed as to the condition of affairs throughout his kingdom.

REVIVAL OF LEARNING UNDER CHARLEMAGNE

Charlemagne made a serious effort to revive classical culture in the West from the low state
into which it had fallen during the period of the invasions. We still possess a number of laws
issued by this Frankish king for the promotion of education. He founded schools in the monasteries
and cathedrals, where not only the clergy but also the common people might receive some training.
He formed his whole court into a palace school, in which learned men from Italy, Spain, and
England gave instruction to his own children and those of his nobles. The king himself often
studied with them, under the direction of his good friend, Alcuin, an Englishman and the foremost
scholar in western Europe. He had the manuscripts of Latin authors collected and copied, so
that the knowledge preserved in books should not be forgotten. All this civilizing work, together
with the peace and order which he maintained throughout a wide territory, made his reign the
most brilliant period of the early Middle Ages.

107. CHARLEMAGNE AND THE REVIVAL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 800 A.D.

CORONATION OF CHARLEMAGNE, 800 A.D.

Charlemagne, the champion of Christendom and the foremost ruler in Europe, seemed to the men
of his day the rightful successor of the Roman emperors. He had their power, and now he was
to have their name. In the year 800 A.D. the Frankish king visited Rome to investigate certain
accusations made against the pope, Leo III, by his enemies in the city. Charlemagne absolved
Leo of all wrong-doing and restored him to his office. Afterwards, on Christmas Day Charlemagne
went to old St. Peter's Church, where the pope was saying Mass. As the king, dressed in the
rich robes of a Roman patrician, knelt in prayer before the high altar, the pope suddenly placed
on his head a golden crown, while all the people cried out with one voice, "Long life and victory
to Charles Augustus, the great and pacific emperor of the Romans, crowned by God!"

REASONS FOR THE CORONATION

Although Charlemagne appears to have been surprised by the pope's act, we know that he wished
to become emperor. The imperial title would confer upon him greater dignity and honor, though
not greater power, than he possessed as king of the Franks and of the Lombards. The pope, in
turn, was glad to reward the man who had protected the Church and had done so much to spread
the Catholic faith among the heathen. The Roman people also welcomed the coronation, because
they felt that the time had come for Rome to assume her old place as the capital of the world.
To reject the eastern ruler, in favor of the great Frankish king, was an emphatic method of
asserting Rome's independence of Constantinople.

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CORONATION

The coronation of Charlemagne was one of the most important events in medieval history. It
might be thought a small matter that he should take the imperial title, when he already exercised
imperial sway throughout western Europe. But Charlemagne's contemporaries believed that the
old Roman Empire had now been revived, and a German king now sat on the throne once occupied
by Augustus and Constantine. Henceforth there was established in the West a line of Roman emperors
which lasted until the opening of the nineteenth century. [16]

CHARLEMAGNE'S EMPIRE

Charlemagne's empire was not in any true sense a continuation of the Roman Empire. It did not
include the dominions over which the emperors at Constantinople were to reign for centuries.
Moreover, Charlemagne and his successors on the throne had little in common with the old rulers
of Rome, who spoke Latin, administered Roman law, and regarded the Germans as among their most
dangerous enemies. Charlemagne's empire was, in fact, largely a new creation.

108. DISRUPTION OF CHARLEMAGNE'S EMPIRE, 814-870 A.D.

AFTER CHARLEMAGNE

The empire of Charlemagne did not long remain intact. So vast was its extent and so unlike
were its inhabitants in race, language, and customs that it could be managed only by a ruler
of the greatest energy and strength of will. Unfortunately, the successors of Charlemagne proved
to be too weak for the task of maintaining peace and order. Western Europe now entered on a
long period of confusion and violence, during which Charlemagne's possessions broke up into
separate and warring kingdoms.

TREATY OF VERDUN, 843 A.D.

Charlemagne's son, Louis the Pious, who became emperor in 814 A.D., was a well-meaning but
feeble ruler, better fitted for the quiet life of a monastery than for the throne. He could
not control his rebellious sons, who, even during his lifetime, fought bitterly over their
inheritance. The unnatural strife, which continued after his death, was temporarily settled
by a treaty concluded at the city of Verdun. According to its terms Lothair, the eldest brother,
received Italy and the imperial title, together with a narrow stretch of land along the valleys
of the Rhine and the Rhone, between the North Sea and the Mediterranean. Louis and Charles,
the other brothers, received kingdoms lying to the east and west, respectively, of Lothair's
territory. The Treaty of Verdun may be said to mark the first stage in the dissolution of the
Carolingian Empire.

TREATY OF MERSEN, 870 A.D.

A second treaty, made at Mersen in Holland, was entered into by Louis and Charles, after the
death of their brother Lothair. They divided between themselves Lothair's kingdom north of
the Alps, leaving to his young son the possession of Italy and the empty title of "emperor."
The Treaty of Mersen may be said to mark the second stage in the dissolution of the Carolingian
Empire. That empire, as such, had now ceased to exist.

IMPORTANCE OF THE TWO TREATIES

The territorial arrangements made by the treaties of Verdun and Mersen foreshadowed the future
map of western Europe. The East Frankish kingdom of Louis, inhabited almost entirely by Germanic
peoples, was to develop into modern Germany. The West Frankish kingdom of Charles, inhabited
mainly by descendants of Romanized Gauls, was to become modern France. Lothair's kingdom, separated
into two parts by the Alps, never became a national state. Italy, indeed, might be united under
one government, but the long, narrow strip north of the Alps had no unity of race, no common
language, and no national boundaries. It was fated to be broken into fragments and to be fought
over for centuries by its stronger neighbors. Part of this territory now forms the small countries
of Belgium, Holland, and Switzerland, and another part, known as Alsace and Lorraine, [17]
still remains a bone of contention between France and Germany.

RENEWED BARBARIAN INVASIONS

Even had Charlemagne been followed by strong and able rulers, it would have been a difficult
matter to hold the empire together in the face of the fresh series of barbarian inroads which
began immediately after his death. The Mohammedans, though checked by the Franks at the battle
of Tours, [18] continued to be dangerous enemies. They ravaged southern France, Sicily, and
parts of Italy. The piratical Northmen from Denmark and Norway harried the coast of France
and made inroads far beyond Paris. They also penetrated into western Germany, sailing up the
Rhine in their black ships and destroying such important towns as Cologne and Aix-la- Chapelle.
Meanwhile, eastern Germany lay exposed to the attacks of the Slavs, whom Charlemagne had defeated
but not subdued. The Magyars, or Hungarians, were also dreaded foes. Their wild horsemen entered
Europe from the plains of Asia and, like the Huns and Avars to whom they were probably related,
spread devastation far and wide. A great part of Europe thus suffered from invasions almost
as destructive as those which had brought ruin to the old Roman world.

109. GERMANY UNDER THE SAXON KINGS, 919-973 A.D.

THE GERMAN STEM-DUCHIES

The tenth century saw another movement toward the restoration of law and order. The civilizing
work of Charlemagne was taken up by German kings, not of the old Prankish stock, but belonging
to that Saxon people which had opposed Charlemagne so long and bitterly. Saxony was one of
the five great territorial states, or stem-duchies, as they are usually called, into which
Germany was then divided. [19] Germany at that time extended only as far east as the river
Elbe, beyond which lay the territory occupied by half-civilized Slavic tribes.

ELECTIVE KINGSHIP OF GERMANY

The rulers of the stem-duchies enjoyed practical independence, though they had recognized some
king of Germany ever since the Treaty of Verdun. Early in the tenth century the Carolingian
dynasty died out in Germany, and the German nobles then proceeded to elect their own kings.
Their choice fell first upon Conrad, duke of Franconia, but he had little authority outside
his own duchy. A stronger man was required to keep the peace among the turbulent nobles and
to repel the invaders of Germany. Such a man appeared in the person of Henry, duke of Saxony,
who, after Conrad's death, was chosen king.

REIGN OF HENRY THE FOWLER, 919-936 A.D.

Henry I, called the Fowler, because he was fond of hunting birds, spent the greater part of
his reign in wars against the Slavs, Magyars, and other invaders. He conquered from the Slavs
the territory afterwards known as Brandenburg. This country was to furnish Germany, in later
centuries, with its present dynasty--the Hohenzollerns. [20] He occupied the southern part
of Denmark (Schleswig) and Christianized it. He also recovered for Germany Lorraine, a district
which remained in German hands until the eighteenth century.

REIGN OF OTTO THE GREAT, 936-973 A.D.

Henry the Fowler was succeeded by his son, Otto I, whom history knows as Otto the Great. He
well deserved the title. Like Charlemagne, Otto presented the aspect of a born ruler. He is
described as being tall and commanding in presence, strong and vigorous of body, and gifted
with great charm of manner. In his bronzed face shone clear and sparkling eyes, and down his
breast hung a long, thick beard. Though subject to violent outbursts of temper, he was liberal
to his friends and just to his foes. Otto was a man of immense energy and ambition, with a
high conception of his duties as a sovereign. His reign forms one of the most notable epochs
in German history.

OTTO AND THE MAGYARS

Otto continued Henry's work of defending Germany from the foes which threatened to overrun
that country. He won his most conspicuous success against the Magyars, who suffered a crushing
defeat on the banks of the river Lech in Bavaria (955 A.D.). These barbarians now ceased their
raids and retired to the lands on the middle Danube which they had seized from the Slavs. Here
they settled down, accepted Christianity from the Roman Church, and laid the foundations of
the kingdom of Hungary. [21] As a protection against future Magyar inroads Otto established
the East Mark. This region afterwards rose to great importance under the name of Austria.

OTTO AND THE STEM-DUKES

Otto was an excellent ruler of Germany. He made it his business to strengthen the royal authority
by weakening that of the stem-dukes. He had to fight against them on more than one occasion,
for they regarded themselves almost as independent kings. Otto was able to keep them in check,
but the rulers who followed him were less successful in this respect. The struggle between
the kings and their powerful nobles formed a constant feature of the medieval history of Germany.

110. OTTO THE GREAT AND THE RESTORATION OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 962 A.D.

CONDITION OF ITALY

Otto the Great is not to be remembered only as a German king. His reign was also noteworthy
in the history of Italy. The country at this time was hopelessly divided between rival and
contending peoples. The emperor at Constantinople controlled the southern extremity of the
peninsula. The Mohammedans held Sicily and some cities on the mainland. The pope ruled at Rome
and in the States of the Church. A so-called king of Italy still reigned in Lombardy, but he
could not manage the powerful counts, dukes, and marquises, who were virtually independent
within their own domains. Even the imperial title died out, and now there was no longer a Roman
emperor in the West.

CORONATION OF OTTO THE GREAT, 962 A.D.

The deplorable condition of Italy invited interference from abroad. Following in the footsteps
of Charlemagne, Otto the Great led two expeditions across the Alps, assumed the "Iron Crown"
[22] of Lombardy, and then proceeded to Rome, where he secured the pope (John XII) against
the latter's enemies in that city. Otto's reward was the same as Charlemagne's. On Candlemas
Day, (February 2d) 962 A.D., the grateful pope crowned him Roman emperor.

MEANING OF THE CORONATION

The coronation of Otto the Great seemed to his contemporaries a necessary and beneficial act.
They still believed that the Roman Empire was suspended, not extinct; and that now, one hundred
and fifty years after Charlemagne, the occasion was opportune to revive the name and power
associated with the golden age of the first Frankish emperor. Otto's ardent spirit, one may
well believe, was fired with this vision of imperial sway and the renewal of a title around
which clustered so many memories of success and glory.

ULTIMATE RESULTS OF THE CORONATION

But the outcome of Otto's restoration of the Roman Empire was good neither for Italy nor for
Germany. It became the rule, henceforth, that the man whom the German nobles chose as their
king had a claim, also, to the Italian crown and the imperial title. The efforts of the German
kings to make good this claim led to their constant interference in the affairs of Italy. They
treated that country as a conquered province which had no right to a national life and an independent
government under its own rulers. At the same time they neglected Germany and failed to keep
their powerful territorial lords in subjection. Neither Italy nor Germany, in consequence,
could become a unified, centralized state, such as was formed in France and England during
the later Middle Ages.

THE HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE

The empire of Charlemagne, restored by Otto the Great, came to be called in later centuries
the "Holy Roman Empire." The title points to the idea of a world monarchy--the Roman Empire--and
a world religion--Roman Christianity--united in one institution. This magnificent idea was
never fully realized. The popes and emperors, instead of being bound to each other by the closest
ties, were more generally enemies than friends. A large part of medieval history was to turn
on this conflict between the Empire and the Papacy. [23]

111. THE ANGLO-SAXONS IN BRITAIN, 449-839 A.D.

ANGLO-SAXON CONQUEST OF BRITAIN

From the history of Continental Europe we now turn to the history of Britain. That island had
been overrun by the Germanic barbarians after the middle of the fifth century. [24] They are
commonly known as Anglo-Saxons, from the names of their two principal peoples, the Angles and
Saxons. The Anglo-Saxon conquest of Britain was a slow process, which lasted at least one hundred
and fifty years. The invaders followed the rivers into the interior and gradually subdued more
than a half of what is now England, comprising the fertile plain district in the southern and
eastern parts of the island.

NATURE OF THE CONQUEST

Though the Anglo-Saxons probably destroyed many flourishing cities and towns of the Romanized
Britons, it seems likely that the conquerors spared the women, with whom they intermarried,
and the agricultural laborers, whom they made slaves. Other natives took refuge in the hill
regions of western and northern Britain, and here their descendants still keep up the Celtic
language and traditions. The Anglo-Saxons regarded the Britons with contempt, naming them Welsh,
a word which means one who talks gibberish. The antagonism between the two peoples died out
in the course of centuries, conquerors and conquered intermingled, and an English nation, partly
Celtic and partly Germanic, came into being.

THE SEVEN KINGDOMS IN BRITAIN

The Anglo-Saxons started to fight one another before they ceased fighting their common enemy,
the Britons. Throughout the seventh and eighth centuries, the Anglo-Saxon states were engaged
in almost constant struggles, either for increase of territory or for supremacy. The kingdoms
farthest east--Kent, Sussex, Essex, and East Anglia--found their expansion checked by other
kingdoms--Northumbria, Mercia, and Wessex--which grew up in the interior of the island. Each
of these three stronger states gained in turn the leading place.

EGBERT AND THE SUPREMACY OF WESSEX, 802-839 A.D.

The beginning of the supremacy of Wessex dates from the reign of Egbert. He had lived for some
years as an exile at the court of Charlemagne, from whom he must have learned valuable lessons
of war and statesmanship. After returning from the Continent, Egbert became king of Wessex
and gradually forced the rulers of the other states to acknowledge him as overlord. Though
Egbert was never directly king of all England, he began the work of uniting the Anglo-Saxons
under one government. His descendants have occupied the English throne to the present day.

ANGLO-SAXON BRITAIN

When the Germans along the Rhine and the Danube crossed the frontiers and entered the western
provinces, they had already been partially Romanized. They understood enough of Roman civilization
to appreciate it and to desire to preserve it. The situation was quite different with the Anglo-
Saxons. Their original home lay in a part of Germany far beyond the borders of the Roman Empire
and remote from the cultural influences of Rome. Coming to Britain as barbarians, they naturally
introduced their own language, laws, and customs wherever they settled. Much of what the Anglo-
Saxons brought with them still lives in England, and from that country has spread to the United
States and the vast English colonies beyond the seas. The English language is less indebted
to Latin than any of the Romance languages, [25] and the Common law of England owes much less
to Roman law than do the legal systems of Continental Europe. England, indeed, looks to the
Anglo-Saxons for some of the most characteristic and important elements of her civilization.

112. CHRISTIANITY IN THE BRITISH ISLES

PREPARATION FOR CHRISTIANITY

The Anglo-Saxons also brought to Britain their heathen faith. Christianity did not come to
them until the close the sixth century. At this time more or less intercourse had sprung up
between the people of Kent, lying nearest to the Continent, and the Franks in Gaul. Ethelbert,
the king of Kent, had even married the Frankish princess, Bertha. He allowed his Christian
wife to bring a bishop to her new home and gave her the deserted church of St. Martin at Canterbury
as a place of worship. Queen Bertha's fervent desire for the conversion of her husband and
his people prepared the way for an event of first importance in English history--the mission
of Augustine.

MISSION OF AUGUSTINE, 597 A.D.

The pope at this time was Gregory I, better known, from his services to the Roman Church, as
Gregory the Great. [26] The kingdom of Kent, with its Christian queen, must have seemed to
him a promising field for missionary enterprise. Gregory, accordingly, sent out the monk Augustine
with forty companions to carry the Gospel to the heathen English. The king of Kent, already
well disposed toward the Christian faith, greeted the missionaries kindly and told them that
they were free to convert whom they would. Before long he and his court embraced Christianity,
and the people of Kent soon followed the royal example. The monks were assigned a residence
in Canterbury, a city which has ever since remained the religious capital of England. From
Kent Christianity in its Roman form gradually spread into the other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms.

CELTIC CHRISTIANITY

Augustine and his monks were not the first missionaries to Britain. Roman soldiers, merchants,
and officials had introduced Christianity among the Britons as early as second century. During
the fifth century the famous St. Patrick had carried Christianity to the heathen Irish. The
Anglo-Saxon invasion of Britain drove many Christians to Ireland, and that island in the sixth
and seventh centuries became a center from which devoted monks went forth to labor in western
Scotland and northern Britain [27] Here they came in contact with the Roman missionaries.

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CELTIC AND ROMAN CHRISTIANITY

The Celtic Christians followed some customs which differed from those observed by Roman Christians.
They computed the date on which Easter fell according to a system unlike that of the Romans.
They permitted their priests to marry; the Romans forbade the practice. Their monks shaved
the front of the head from ear to ear as a tonsure, while Roman monks shaved the top of the
head, leaving a "crown of thorns." These differences may not seem very important, but they
were enough to prevent the cooperation of Celtic and Roman missionaries for the conversion
of the heathen.

SYNOD OF WHITBY, 664 A.D.

The rivalry between Celtic and Roman Christians was finally settled at a church gathering,
or synod, called by the king of Northumbria at Whitby. The main controversy at this synod concerned
the proper date for Easter. In the course of the debate it was asserted that the Roman custom
had the sanction of St. Peter, to whom Christ had intrusted the keys of heaven. This statement
was enough for the Northumbrian king, who thereupon decided in favor of the Roman claim, declaring
that he would not oppose St. Peter, "lest when I come before the gates of the kingdom of heaven,
he who holds the keys should not open to me." [28] The representatives of the Celtic Church
then withdrew from England, leaving the field clear for Roman missionaries.

THE BRITISH ISLES BECAME ROMAN CATHOLIC

The decision of the Synod of Whitby in favor of Rome meant that all England henceforth would
recognize the pope's authority in religious matters. It remained a Roman Catholic country until
the time of the Reformation, nearly nine hundred years later. [29] The Celtic Christians in
Ireland and Scotland also in the course of time became the devoted children of the Roman Church.

113. THE FUSION OF GERMANS AND ROMANS

THE GERMANIC KINGDOMS

We have now followed the fortunes of the Germans for five centuries from the end of the Roman
Empire in the West. Most of their kingdoms, it has been seen, were not permanent. The Visigothic
and Burgundian dominions in Gaul yielded to the Franks, and those of the Visigoths in Spain,
to the Mohammedan Arabs. [30] The Vandal possessions in North Africa were regained by the emperors
at Constantinople. [31] The rule of the Ostrogoths in Italy endured for only sixty years and
that of the Lombards passed away after two centuries. The kingdoms established by the Franks
and the Anglo-Saxons alone developed into lasting states.

HINDRANCES TO THE FUSION OF GERMANS AND ROMANS

But even where the Germans did not found permanent kingdoms, they mingled with the subject
provincials and adopted much of the old Roman civilization. The fusion of the two peoples naturally
required a long time, being scarcely completed before the middle of the tenth century. It was
hindered, in the first place, by the desire of the Germans to secure the lands of the Romans.
Wherever the barbarians settled, they appropriated a large part of the agricultural soil. How
much they took varied in different countries. The Ostrogoths seem to have seized one- third
of the land in Italy; the Visigoths, two-thirds of that in Gaul and Spain; the Anglo-Saxons,
perhaps all the tillable soil of Britain. It could not but be galling to the Romans to surrender
their farms to the barbarians. In the second place, the Germans often assessed heavy taxes
on the Romans, which they themselves refused to pay. Tax-paying seemed to the Germans a mark
of servitude. In the third place, a barrier between the two peoples arose from the circumstance
that each had its particular law. For several centuries following the invasions there was one
law for the Romans--that which they had enjoyed under the empire--and another law for the Germans--their
old tribal customs. After the Germans had lived for some time in contact with the Romans they
wrote out their laws in the Latin language. These "Laws of the Barbarians" still survive and
throw much light on their early beliefs and manners.

CONDITIONS FAVORING FUSION

In spite of the hindrances to fusion, it seems true that the Germans and the Romans felt no
great dislike for each other and that, as a rule, they freely intermingled. Certain conditions
directly favored this result. First, many Germans had found their way within the empire as
hired soldiers, colonists, and slaves, long before the invasions began. Second, the Germanic
invaders came in relatively small numbers. Third, the Germans entered the Roman world not as
destroyers, but as homeseekers. They felt a real reverence for Roman civilization. And fourth,
some of the principal Germanic nations, including the Visigoths, Burgundians, and Vandals,
were already Christians at the time of their invasions, while other nations, such as the Franks
and the Anglo-Saxons, were afterwards converted to Christianity. As long, however, as most
of the Germans remained Arian Christians [32] their belief stood in the way of friendly intercourse
with the Roman provincials, who had accepted the Catholic faith.

CONTRAST BETWEEN EAST AND WEST

If western Europe during the early Middle Ages presented a scene of violence and confusion
while the Germans were settling in their new homes, a different picture was afforded by eastern
Europe. Here the Roman Empire still survived and continued to uphold for centuries the Roman
tradition of law and order. The history of that empire forms the theme of the following chapter.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate the boundaries of the empire of Charlemagne, distinguishing his
hereditary possessions from those which he acquired by conquest.

2. On an outline map indicate the boundaries of the empire of Otto the Great.

3. What events are connected with the following places: Soissons; Mersen; Whitby; Reims; Verdun;
Canterbury; and Strassburg?

4. What is the historical importance of Augustine, Henry the Fowler, Pepin the Short, Charles
Martel, Egbert, and Ethelbert?

5. Give dates for the following events: battle of Tours; crowning of Charlemagne as emperor;
crowning of Otto the Great as emperor; deposition of Romulus Augustulus; Augustine's mission
to England; and the Treaty of Verdun.

6. Explain the following expressions: "do-nothing kings"; missi dominici; Holy Roman Empire;
and "Donation of Pepin."

7. Why was the extinction of the Ostrogothic kingdom a misfortune for Italy?

8. Why did Italy remain for so many centuries after the Lombard invasion merely "a geographical
expression"?

9. What difference did it make whether Clovis became an Arian or a Catholic?

10. What events in the lives of Clovis and Pepin the Short contributed to the alliance between
the Franks and the popes?

11. What provinces of the Roman Empire in the West were not included within the limits of Charlemagne's
empire?

12. What countries of modern Europe are included within the limits of Charlemagne's empire?

13. Compare the missi dominici with the "eyes and ears" of Persian kings.

14. What is the origin of the word "emperor"? As a title distinguish it from that of "king."

15. Why has Lothair's kingdom north of the Alps been called the "strip of trouble"?

16. In what parts of the British Isles are Celtic languages still spoken?

17. How did the four English counties, Sussex, Essex, Norfolk, and Suffolk, receive their names?

18. What was the importance of the Synod of Whitby?

19. Set forth the conditions which hindered, and those which favored, the fusion of Germans
and Romans.

FOOTNOTES

[1] Webster, Readings in Medieval and Modern History, chapter i, "Stories of the Lombard Kings";
chapter ii, "Charlemagne."

[2] See page 236.

[3] See page 236.

[4] See page 309.

[5] The modern kingdom of Italy dates from 1861-1870 A.D.

[6] See page 245.

[7] His name is properly spelled Chlodweg, which later became Ludwig, and in French, Louis.

[8] Allemagne. On the other hand, the inhabitants of Gaul came to call their country France
and themselves Francais after their conquerors, the Germanic Franks.

[9] Gregory of Tours, Historia Francorum, ii, 31.

[10] From Merovech, grandfather of Clovis.

[11] See page 379.

[12] So called from Pepin's son, Charles the Great (in Latin, Carolus Magnus). The French form
of his name is Charlemagne.

[13] In 1870 A.D. the States of the Church were added to the newly formed kingdom of Italy.

[14] Einhard, Vita Caroli Magni, 25.

[15] The rearguard of Charlemagne's army, when returning from Spain, was attacked and overwhelmed
by the mountaineers of the Pyrenees. The incident gave rise to the famous French epic known
as the Song of Roland.

[16] The title of "Holy Roman Emperor," assumed by the later successors of Charlemagne, was
kept by them till 1806 A.D.

[17] The French name Lorraine and the German name Lothringen are both derived from the Latin
title of Lothair's kingdom--Lotharii regnum.

[18] See page 306.

[19] The others were Franconia, Swabia, Bavaria, and Lorraine.

[20] The Hohenzollerns became electors of Brandenburg in 1415 A.D., kings of Prussia in 1701,
and emperors of Germany in 1871.

[21] The Magyar settlement in central Europe had the important result of dividing the Slavic
peoples into three groups. Those who remained south of the Danube (Serbians, Croatians, etc.)
were henceforth separated from the northwestern Slavs (Bohemians, Moravians, and Poles) and
from the eastern Slavs (Russians). See the map facing page 326.

[22] See the Illustration, page 308.

[23] See pages 455-463.

[24] See page 246.

[25] See page 208.

[26] See page 350.

[27] The enthusiasm of the Celtic Christians reached such proportions that it swept back upon
the Continent. In the seventh and eighth centuries Irish missionaries worked among the heathen
Germans and founded monasteries in Burgundy, Lombardy, and southern Germany (now Switzerland).

[28] Bede, Historia ecclesiastica, iii, 25.

[29] The separation from Rome occurred in 1534 A.D., during the reign of Henry VIII.

[30] See page 378.

[31] See page 330.

[32] See page 236.

CHAPTER XIV

EASTERN EUROPE DURING THE EARLY MIDDLE AGES, 395-1096 A.D.

114. THE ROMAN EMPIRE IN THE EAST

SURVIVAL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE IN THE EAST

The Roman Empire in the West moved rapidly to its "fall" in 476 A.D., at the hands of the Germanic
invaders. The Roman Empire in the East, though threatened by enemies from without and weakened
by civil conflicts from within, endured for more than a thousand years. Until the middle of
the eleventh century it was the strongest state in Europe, except during the reign of Charlemagne,
when the Frankish kingdom eclipsed it. Until the middle of the fifteenth century it preserved
the name, the civilization, and some part of the dominions, of ancient Rome. [1]

CAUSES OF THE SURVIVAL

The long life of the Roman Empire in the East is one of the marvels of history. Its great and
constant vitality appears the more remarkable, when one considers that it had no easily defensible
frontiers, contained many different races with little in common, and on all sides faced hostile
states. The empire survived so long, because of its vast wealth and resources, its despotic,
centralized government, the strength of its army, and the almost impregnable position occupied
by Constantinople, the capital city.

CHARACTER OF THE EMPIRE

The changing fortunes of the empire during the Middle Ages are reflected in some of the names
by which it is often known. The term "Greek Empire" expresses the fact that the state became
more and more Greek in character, owing to the loss, first of the western provinces in the
fifth century, and then of Syria and Egypt in the seventh century. Another term-- "Byzantine
Empire"--appropriately describes the condition of the state in still later times, when its
possessions were reduced to Constantinople (ancient Byzantium) and the territory in the neighborhood
of that city. But through all this period the rulers at Constantinople regarded themselves
as the true successors of Augustus, Diocletian, and Constantine. They never admitted the right
of Charlemagne and Otto the Great to establish a rival Roman Empire in western Europe. [2]
They claimed to be the only legitimate heirs of Old Rome.

115. THE REIGN OF JUSTINIAN, 527-565 A.D.

SUCCESSORS OF THEODOSIUS, 395-527 A.D.

The history of the Roman Empire in the East, for more than one hundred years after the death
of Theodosius, is uneventful. His successors, though unable to prevent the Germans from seizing
Italy and the other western provinces, managed to keep their own dominions intact. The eastern
provinces escaped the fate of those in the West, because they were more populous and offered
greater obstacles to the barbarian invaders, who followed the line of least resistance. The
gradual recovery of the empire in strength and warlike energy prepared the way for a really
eminent ruler--Justinian.

JUSTINIAN AND THEODORA

Justinian is described as a man of noble bearing, simple in his habits, affable in speech,
and easy of approach to all his subjects. Historians have often drawn attention to his wonderful
activity of mind and power of steady industry. So great was his zeal for work that one of his
courtiers called him "the emperor who never sleeps." Possessed of large ideas and inspired
by the majesty of Rome, Justinian aimed to be a great conqueror, a great lawgiver, and a great
restorer of civilization. His success in whatever he undertook must be ascribed in part to
his wife, Theodora, whom he associated with himself on the throne. Theodora, strong of mind
and wise in counsel, made a worthy helpmate for Justinian, who more than once declared that
in affairs of state he had consulted his "revered wife."

CONQUESTS OF JUSTINIAN

It was the ambition of Justinian to conquer the Germanic kingdoms which had been formed out
of the Mediterranean provinces. In this task he relied chiefly on the military genius of Belisarius,
one of the world's foremost commanders. Belisarius was able in one short campaign to destroy
the Vandal kingdom in North Africa. [3] The Vandals by this time had lost their early vigor;
they made but a feeble resistance; and their Roman subjects welcomed Belisarius as a deliverer.
Justinian awarded a triumph to his victorious general, an honor which for five centuries emperors
alone had enjoyed. The conquest of North Africa, together with the islands of Sardinia and
Corsica, was followed by the overthrow of the Ostrogothic kingdom in Sicily and Italy. [4]
Justinian also recovered from the Visigoths [5] the southeastern part of Spain. He could now
say with truth that the Mediterranean was once more a Roman sea. [6]

CODIFICATION OF ROMAN LAW

The conquests of Justinian proved to be less enduring than his work as a lawgiver. Until his
reign the sources of Roman law, including the legislation of the popular assemblies, the decrees
of the Senate, the edicts of the of Roman praetors and emperors, and the decisions of learned
lawyers, had never been completely collected and arranged in scientific form. Justinian appointed
a commission of legal scholars to perform this task. The result of their labors, in which the
emperor himself assisted, was the publication of the Corpus Juris Civilis, the "Body of Civil
Law." Under this form the Roman principles of jurisprudence have become the foundation of the
legal systems of modern Italy, Spain, France, Germany, and other European countries. These
principles even influenced the Common law of England, which has been adopted by the United
States. [7] The Corpus Juris Civilis, because of this widespread influence, is justly regarded
as one of Rome's most important gifts to the world.

CIVILIZING WORK OF JUSTINIAN

Justinian's claim to the title of "Great" rests also on his civilizing work. He wished to restore
the prosperity, as well as the provinces, of the empire. During his reign roads, bridges, and
aqueducts were repaired, and commerce and agriculture were encouraged. It was at this time
that two Christian missionaries brought from China the eggs of the silkworm, and introduced
the manufacture of silk in Europe. As a builder Justinian gained special fame. The edifices
which he caused to be raised throughout his dominions included massive fortifications on the
exposed frontiers, splendid palaces, and many monasteries and churches. The most noteworthy
monument to his piety is the church of Sancta Sophia [8] at Constantinople, now used as a Mohammedan
mosque. By his conquests, his laws, and his buildings, Justinian revived for a time the waning
glory of imperial Rome.

116. THE EMPIRE AND ITS ASIATIC FOES

AFTER JUSTINIAN

