Their weapons are most-what solid earthly bodies, nothing of iron, but much of stone, like
to yellow soft flint spa, shaped like a barbed arrowhead, but flung like a dart, with great
force.  They are not as infallible Benjamites, hitting at a hair's-breadth; nor are they wholly
unvanquishable, at least in appearance.

The men of the second sight do not discover strange things when asked, but at fits and raptures,
as if inspired with some genius at that instant, which before did work in or about them.  Thus
I have frequently spoken to one of them, who in his transport told me he cut the body of one
of those people in two with his iron weapon, and so escaped this onset, yet he saw nothing
left behind of that appearing divided; at other times he outwrested [wrestled?] some of them.
His neighbours often perceived this man to disappear at a certain place, and about an hour
after to become visible, and discover himself near a bow-shot from the first place.  It was
in that place where he became invisible, said he, that the subterraneans did encounter and
combat with him.  Those who are unseund, or unsanctified (called fey), are said to be pierced
or wounded with those people's weapons, which makes them do somewhat very unlike their former
practice, causing a sudden alteration, yet the cause thereof unperceivable at present; nor
have they power (either they cannot make use of their natural powers, or asked not the heavenly
aid) to escape the blow impendent.  A man of the second sight perceived a person standing by
him (sound to other's view) wholly gored in blood, and he (amazed like) bid him instantly flee.
The whole man laughed at his airt [notice] and warning, since there was no appearance of danger.
He had scarce contracted his lips from laughter when unexpectedly his enemies leaped in at
his side and stabbed him with their weapons.  They also pierce cows or other animals, usually
said to be Elf-shot, whose purest substance (if they die) these subterraneans take to live
on, viz. the aerial and ethereal parts, the most spirituous matter for prolonging of life,
such as aquavitae (moderately taken) is amongst liquors, leaving the terrestrial behind.  The
cure of such hurts is only for a man to find out the hole with his finger, as if the spirits
flowing from a man's warm hand were antidote sufficient against their poisoned darts.

As birds, as beasts, whose bodies are much used to the change of the free and open air, foresee
storms, so those invisible people are more sagacious to understand by the books of nature things
to come, than we, who are pestered with the grossest dregs of all elementary mixtures, and
have our purer spirits choked by them.  The deer scents out a man and powder (though a late
invention) at a great distance; a hungry hunter, bread; and the raven, a carrion; their brains,
being long clarified by the high and subtle air, will observe a very small change in a trice.
Thus a man of the second sight, perceiving the operations of these forecasting invisible people
among us (indulged through a stupendous providence to give warnings of some remarkable events,
either in the air, earth, or waters), told he saw a winding shroud creeping on a walking healthful
person's leg till it came to the knee, and afterwards it came up to the middle, then to the
shoulders, and at last over the head, which was visible to no other person.  And by observing
the spaces of time betwixt the several stages, he easily guessed how long the man was to live
who wore the shroud; for when it approached the head, he told that such a person was ripe for
the grave.

There be many places called fairy-hills, which the mountain people think impious and dangerous
to peel or discover, by taking earth or wood from them, superstitiously believing the souls
of their predecessors to dwell there.  And for that end (say they) a mole or mound was dedicate
beside every churchyard to receive the souls till their adjacent bodies arise, and so became
as a fairy-hill; they using bodies of air when called abroad.  They also affirm those creatures
that move invisibly in a house, and cast huge great stones, but do no much hurt, because counter-wrought
by some more courteous and charitable spirits that are everywhere ready to defend men (Dan.
x. 13), to be souls that have not attained their rest, through a vehement desire of revealing
a murder or notable injury done or received, or a treasure that was forgot in their lifetime
on earth, which, when disclosed to a conjuror alone, the ghost quite removes.

In the next country to that of my former residence, about the year 1676, when there was some
scarcity of grain, a marvellous illapse and vision strongly struck the imagination of two women
in one night, living at a good distance from one another, about a treasure hid in a hill called
Sith-bruthach, or fairy-hill.  The appearance of a treasure was first represented to the fancy,
and then an audible voice named the place where it was to their awaking senses.  Whereupon
both rose, and meeting accidentally at the place, discovered their design; and jointly digging,
found a vessel as large as a Scottish peck full of small pieces of good money, of ancient coin;
and halving betwixt them, they sold in dishfuls for dishfuls of meal to the country people.
Very many of undoubted credit saw and had of the coin to this day.  But whether it was a good
or bad angel, one of the subterranean people, or the restless soul of him who hid it, that
discovered it, and to what end it was done, I leave to the examination of others.

These subterraneans have controversies, doubts, disputes, feuds, and siding of parties; there
being some ignorance in all creatures, and the vastest created intelligences not compassing
all things.  As to vice and sin, whatever their own laws be, sure according to ours, and equity,
natural, civil, and revealed, they transgress and commit acts of injustice and sin by what
is above said, as to their stealing of nurses to their children, and that other sort of plaginism
in catching our children away (may seem to heir some estate in those invisible dominions) which
never return.  For swearing and intemperance, they are not observed so subject to those irregularities,
as to envy, spite, hypocrisy, lying, and dissimulation.

As our religion obliges us not to make a peremptory and curious search into these abstrusenesses,
so the histories of all ages give as many plain examples of extraordinary occurrences as make
a modest inquiry not contemptible.  How much is written of pigmies, fairies, nymphs, syrens,
apparitions, which though not the tenth part true, yet could not spring of nothing; even English
authors relate [of] Barry Island, in Glamorganshire, that laying your ear into a cleft of the
rocks, blowing of bellows, striking of hammers, clashing of armour, filing of iron, will be
heard distinctly ever since Merlin enchanted those subterranean wights to a solid manual forging
of arms to Aurelius Ambrosius and his Britons, till he returned; which Merlin being killed
in a battle, and not coming to loose the knot, these active vulcans are there tied to a perpetual
labour.

THE FAIRY BOY OF LEITH.

THE DRACAE.

These are a sort of water-spirits who inveigle women and children into the recesses which they
inhabit, beneath lakes and rivers, by floating past them, on the surface of the water, in the
shape of gold rings or cups.  The women thus seized are employed as nurses, and after seven
years are permitted to revisit earth.  Gervase mentions one woman in particular who had been
allured by observing a wooden dish, or cup, float by her, while she was washing clothes in
the river.  Being seized as soon as she reached the depths, she was conducted into one of the
subterranean recesses, which she described as very magnificent, and employed as nurse to one
of the brood of the hag who had allured her.  During her residence in this capacity, having
accidentally touched one of her eyes with an ointment of serpent's grease, she perceived, at
her return to the world, that she had acquired the faculty of seeing the Dracae, when they
intermingle themselves with men.  Of this power she was, however, deprived by the touch of
her ghostly mistress, whom she had one day incautiously addressed.  It is a curious fact that
this story, in almost all its parts, is current in both the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland,
with no other variation than the substitution of Fairies for Dracae, and the cavern of a hill
for that of a river.  Indeed many of the vulgar account it extremely dangerous to touch anything
which they may happen to find without saining (blessing) it, the snares of the enemy being
notorious and well-attested.  A pool-woman of Teviotdale having been fortunate enough, as she
thought herself, to find a wooden beetle, at the very time when she needed such an implement,
seized it without pronouncing a proper blessing, and, carrying it home, laid it above her bed
to be ready for employment in the morning.  At midnight the window of her cottage opened, and
a loud voice was heard calling up some one within by a strange and uncouth name.  The terrified
cottager ejaculated a prayer, which, we may suppose, ensured her personal safety; while the
enchanted implement of housewifery, tumbling from the bedstead, departed by the window with
no small noise and precipitation.  In a humorous fugitive tract, Dr. Johnson has been introduced
as disputing the authenticity of an apparition, merely because the spirit assumed the shape
of a teapot and a shoulder of mutton.  No doubt, a case so much in point as that we have now
quoted would have removed his incredulity.

A SUCCINCT ACCOUNT OF MY LORD TARBAT'S RELATIONS, IN A LETTER TO THE HONORABLE ROBERT BOYLE,
ESQUIRE, OF THE PREDICTIONS MADE BY SEERS, WHEREOF HIMSELF WAS EAR-AND EYE-WITNESS.

