Now, it seems to us that there is quite as much of hypothesis in this speculation of Laplace
as in the undulatory theory of light. This atmosphere of the sun extending to the utmost limits
of our planetary system! What proof have we that it ever existed? what possible grounds have
we for believing, what motive even for imagining such a thing, but the very same description
of proof given and rejected for the existence of a luminiferous ether--namely, that it enables
us to explain certain events supposed to result from it? Nor is the thing here imagined any
the less a novelty, because it bears the old name of an atmosphere. An atmosphere containing
in itself all the various materials which compose our earth, and whatever else may enter into
the composition of the other planets, is as violent a supposition as an ether, not perceptible
to the senses except by its influence on the nerves of sight. And this cooling down of the
sun! What fact in our experience enables us to advance such a supposition? We might as well
say that the sun was getting hotter every year, or harder or softer, or larger or smaller.
Neither can it be contended that because no absolutely new substance, or new property of matter,
is introduced, but a fantastic conception is framed out of known substances and known properties,
that therefore there is less of rash conjecture in the supposition. In fine, it must be felt
by every one who reads the account of this speculation of Laplace, that the only evidence which
produces the least effect upon his mind, is the corroboration which it receives from the calculations
of the mathematician--a species of proof which Mr Mill himself would not estimate very highly.

Many are the topics which are made to reflect a new light as Mr Mill passes along his lengthened
course; we might quote as instances, his chapters on Analogy and the Calculation of Chances:
and many are the grave and severe discussions that would await us were we to proceed to the
close of his volumes, especially to that portion of his work where he applies the canons of
science to investigations which relate to human nature and the characters of men. But enough
for the present. We repeat, in concluding, the same sentiment that we expressed at the commencement,
that such a work as this goes far to redeem the literature of our age from the charge of frivolity
and superficiality. Those who have been trained in a different school of thinking, those who
have adopted the metaphysics of the transcendental philosophy, will find much in these volumes
to dissent from; but no man, be his pretensions or his tenets what they may, who has been accustomed
to the study of philosophy, can fail to recognize and admire in this author that acute, patient,
enlarged, and persevering thought, which gives to him who possesses it the claim and right
to the title of philosopher. There are few men who--applying it to his own species of excellence--might
more safely repeat the Io sono anche! of the celebrated Florentine.

MY COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS.

People are fond of talking of the hereditary feuds of Italy--the factions of the Capulets and
Montagues, the Orsini and Colonne--and, more especially, of the memorable Vendette of Corsica--as
if hatred and revenge were solely endemic in the regions of

    "The Pyrenean and the river Po!"

Mere prejudice! There is as good hating going on in England as elsewhere. Independent of the
personal antipathies generated by politics, the envy, hatred, and malice arising out of every
election contest, not a country neighbourhood but has its raging factions; and Browns and Smiths
often cherish and maintain an antagonism every whit as bitter as that of the sanguinary progenitors
of Romeo and Juliet.

I, for instance, who am but a country gentleman in a small way--an obscure bachelor, abiding
from year's end to year's end on my insignificant farm--have witnessed things in my time, which,
had they been said and done nearer the tropics, would have been cited far and near in evidence
of the turbulence of human passions, and that "the heart is deceitful above all things, and
desperately wicked." Seeing that they chanced in a homely parish in Cheshire, no one has been
at the trouble to note their strangeness; though, to own the truth, none but the actors in
the drama (besides myself, a solitary spectator) are cognizant of its incidents and catastrophe.
I might boast, indeed, that I alone am thoroughly in the secret; for it is the spectator only
who competently judges the effects of a scene; and merely changing the names, for reasons easily
conceivable, I ask leave to relate in the simplest manner a few facts in evidence of my assertion,
that England has its Capuletti e Montecchi as well as Verona.

In the first place, let me premise that I am neither of a condition of life, nor condition
of mind, to mingle as a friend with those of whose affairs I am about to treat so familiarly,
being far too crotchety a fellow not to prefer a saunter with my fishing-tackle on my back,
or an evening tête-à-tête with my library of quaint old books, to all the good men's feasts
ever eaten at the cost of a formal country visit. Nevertheless, I am not so cold of heart as
to be utterly devoid of interest in the destinies of those whose turrets I see peering over
the woods that encircle my corn-fields; and as the good old housekeeper, who for these thirty
years past has presided over my household, happens to have grandchildren high in service in
what are called the two great families in the neighbourhood, scarcely an event or incident
passes within their walls that does not find an echo in mine. So much in attestation of my
authority. But for such an introduction behind the scenes, much of the stage business of this
curious drama would have escaped my notice, or remained incomprehensible.

I am wrong to say the two great "families;" I should have said the two great "houses." At the
close of the last century, indeed, our parish of Lexley contained but one; one which had stood
there since the days of the first James, nay, even earlier--a fine old manorial hall of grand
dimensions and stately architecture, of the species of mixed Gothic so false in taste, but
so ornamental in effect, which is considered as betraying the first symptoms of Italian innovation.

The gardens extending in the rear of the house were still more decidedly in the Italian taste,
having clipped evergreens and avenues of pyramidal yews, which, combined with the intervening
statues, imparted to them something of the air of a cemetery. There were fountains, too, which,
in the memory of man, had been never known to play, the marble basins being, if possible, still
greener than the grim visages of the fauns and dryads standing forlorn on their dilapidated
pedestals amid the neglected alleys.

The first thing I can remember of Lexley Hall, was peeping as a child through the stately iron
gratings of the garden, that skirted a by-road leading from my grandfather's farm. The desolateness
of the place overawed my young heart. In summer time the parterres were overgrown into a wilderness.
The plants threw up their straggling arms so high, that the sunshine could hardly find its
way to the quaint old dial that stood there telling its tale of time, though no man regarded;
and the cordial fragrance of the strawberry-beds, mingling with entangled masses of honeysuckle
in their exuberance of midsummer blossom, seemed to mock me, as I loitered in the dusk near
the old gateway, with the tantalizing illusions of a fairy-tale--the Barmecide's feast, or
Prince Desire surveying his princess through the impermeable walls of her crystal palace.

But if the enjoyment of the melancholy old gardens of Lexley Hall were withheld from me, no
one else seemed to find pleasure or profit therein. Sir Laurence Altham, the lord of the manor
and manor-house, was seldom resident in the country. Though a man of mature years, (I speak
of the close of the last century,) he was still a man of pleasure--the ruined hulk of the gallant
vessel which, early in the reign of George III., had launched itself with unequalled brilliancy
on the sparkling current of London life.

At that time, I have heard my grandfather say there was not a mortgage on the Lexley estate!
The timber was notoriously the finest in the county. A whole navy was comprised in one of its
coppices; and the arching avenues were imposing as the aisles of our Gothic minsters. Alas!
it needed the lapse of only half a dozen years to lay bare to the eye of every casual traveller
the ancient mansion, so long

    "Bosom'd high in tufted trees,"

and only guessed at till you approached the confines of the court-yard.

It was hazard that effected this. The dice-box swept those noble avenues from the face of the
estate. Soon after Sir Laurence's coming of age, almost before the church-bells had ceased
to announce the joyous event of the attainment of his majority, he was off to the Continent--Paris--Italy--I
know not where, and was thenceforward only occasionally heard of in Cheshire as the ornament
of the Sardinian or Austrian courts. But these tidings were usually accompanied by a shaking
of the head from the old family steward. The timber was to be thinned anew--the tenants to
be again amerced. Sir Laurence evidently looked upon the Lexley property as a mere hotbed for
his vices. At last the old steward turned surly to our enquiries, and would answer no further
questions concerning his master. My grandfather's small farm was the only plot of ground in
the parish that did not belong to the estate; and from him the faithful old servant was as
careful to conceal the family disgraces, as to maintain the honour of Sir Laurence's name in
the ears of his grumbling tenants.

The truth, however, could not long be withheld. Chaisefuls of suspicious-looking men in black
arrived at the hall; loungers, surveyors, auctioneers--I know not what. There was talk in the
parish about foreclosing a mortgage, no one exactly understood why, or by whom. But it was
soon clear that Wightman, the old steward, was no longer the great man at Lexley. These strangers
bade him come here and go there exactly as they chose, and, unhappily, they saw fit to make
his comings and goings so frequent and so humiliating, that before the close of the summer
the old servitor betook himself to his rest in a spot where all men cease from troubling. The
leaves that dreary autumn fell upon his grave.

According to my grandfather's account, however, few even of his village contemporaries grieved
for old Wightman. They felt that Providence knew best; that the old man was happily spared
the mortification of all that was likely to ensue. For before another year was out the ring
fence, which had hitherto encircled the Lexley property, was divided within itself; a paltry
distribution of about a hundred acres alone remaining attached to the old hall. The rest was
gone! The rest was the property of the foreclosee of that hateful mortgage.

Within view of the battlements of the old manor-house, nearly a hundred workmen were soon employed
in digging the foundations of a modern mansion of the noblest proportions. The new owner of
the estate, though only a manufacturer from Congleton, chose to dwell in a palace; and by the
time his splendid Doric temple was complete, under the name of Lexley Park, the vain-glorious
proprietor, Mr Sparks, had taken his seat in Parliament for a neighbouring borough.

Little was known of him in the neighbourhood beyond his name and calling; yet already his new
tenants were prepared to oppose and dislike him. Though they knew quite as little personally
of the young baronet by whom they had been sold into bondage to the unpopular clothier--him,
with the caprice of ignorance, they chose to prefer. They were proud of the old family--proud
of the hereditary lords of the soil--proud of a name connecting itself with the glories of
the reign of Elizabeth, and the loyalty shining, like a sepulchral lamp, through the gloomy
records of the House of Stuart. The banners and escutcheons of the Althams were appended in
their parish church. The family vault sounded hollow under their head whenever they approached
its altar. Where was the burial-place of the manufacturer? In what obscure churchyard existed
the mouldering heap that covered the remains of the sires of Mr Jonas Sparks? Certainly not
at Lexley! Lexley knew not, and cared not to know, either him or his. It was no fault of the
parish that its young baronet had proved a spendthrift and alienated the inheritance of his
fathers; and, but that he had preserved the manor-house from desecration, they would perhaps
have ostracized him altogether, as having lent his aid to disgrace their manor with so noble
a structure as the porticoed façade of Lexley Park!

Meanwhile the shrewd Jonas was fully aware of his unpopularity and its origin; and, during
a period of three years, he allowed his ill-advised subjects to chew, unmolested, the cud of
their discontent. Having a comfortable residence at the further extremity of the county, he
visited Lexley only to overlook the works, or notice the placing of the costly new furniture;
and the grumblers began to fancy they were to profit as little by their new masters as by their
old. The steward who replaced the trusty Wightman, and had been instructed to legislate among
the cottages with a lighter hand, and distribute Christmas benefaction in a double proportion,
was careful to circulate in the parish an impression that Mr Sparks and his family did not
care to inhabit the new house till the gardens were in perfect order, the succession houses
in full bearing, and the mansion thoroughly seasoned. But the Lexleyans guessed the truth,
that he had no mind to confront the first outbreak of their ill-will.

Nearly four years elapsed before he took possession of the place; four years, during which
Sir Laurence Altham had never set foot in the hall, and was heard of only through his follies
and excesses; and when Mr Sparks at length made his appearance, with his handsome train of
equipages, and surrounded by his still handsomer family, so far from meeting him with sullen
silence, the tenantry began to regret that they had not erected a triumphal arch of evergreens
for his entrance into the park, as had been proposed by the less eager of the Althamites.

After all, their former prejudice in favour of the young baronet was based on very shallow
foundations. What had he ever done for them except raise their rents, and prosecute their trespasses?
It was nothing that his forefathers had endowed almshouses for their support, or served up
banquets for their delectation--Sir Laurence was an absentee--Sir Laurence was as the son of
the stranger. The fine old kennel stood cold and empty, reminding them that to preserve their
foxes was no longer an article of Lexley religion; and if any of the old October, brewed at
the birth of the present baronet, still filled the oaken hogsheads in the cellars of the hall,
what mattered it to them? No chance of their being broached, unless to grace the funeral feast
of the lord of the manor.

