The palace was walled, but not moated; it had two principal gates, one opening to the north,
and another on the river. The circuit of the wall only included twelve acres and a half, and
into this compass had to be crowded in Plantagenet times the King's and Queen's state and private
apartments, and accommodation for an immense army of followers, and also for all the craftsmen
and artificers required by the Court. The total number of persons thus housed in the fourteenth
century is reckoned at 20,000. The part of the King's House thus occupied, the narrow streets
of gabled houses, with tourelles at the corners, and much gilded and carved work, has vanished
completely, even to the memory. When King Henry VIII. removed to the palace at Whitehall a
new Westminster arose about his old Court; this in its turn almost vanished with the fire of
1834. Up to this time some of the old buildings remained, but have now completely gone. Among
them were the Painted Chamber, the Star Chamber, the old House of Lords, and Princes' Chamber,
all part of Edward the Confessor's palace. In the Painted Chamber the Confessor himself died,
but it is manifestly impossible to give here any minute account of the chambers in the ancient
building.

The crypt of St. Stephen's Chapel (not shown to visitors) is one of the few parts remaining
which dates from before the fire. The chapel is said to have been first built by the King whose
name it bore, but was rebuilt by Edward I. and greatly altered by his two immediate successors.
It was used for the sittings of the House of Commons after Edward VI.'s reign. At the end of
the seventeenth century it was much altered by Wren, but it perished in 1834. A small chapel
on the south side was called Our Lady of the Pew. The oldest part of the ancient palace remaining
is Westminster Hall, built by William Rufus as a part of a projected new palace. He held his
Court here in 1099, and, on hearing a remark on the vastness of his hall, he declared that
it would be only a bedroom to the palace when finished. However, he himself had to occupy much
narrower quarters before he could carry out his scheme. Richard II. raised the hall and gave
it the splendid hammer-beam roof, one of the finest feats in carpentry extant. George IV. refaced
the exterior of the hall with stone.

In the eighteenth century the Courts of Justice (Chancery and King's Bench) were held here,
and as the hall was also lined with shops, and the babble and walking to and fro were incessant,
it is not wonderful that justice was sometimes left undone. It would be difficult--nay, impossible--to
tell in detail all the strange historic scenes enacted in Westminster Hall in the limited space
at disposal, and as they are all concerned rather with the nation than with Westminster, mere
mention of the principal ones will be enough. Henry II. caused his eldest son to be crowned
in the hall in his own lifetime, at which ceremony the young Prince disdainfully asserted he
was higher in rank than his father, having a King for father and a Queen for mother, whereas
his father could only claim blood royal on the mother's side.

Edward III. here received King John of France, brought captive by the Black Prince. In 1535
Sir Thomas More was tried here; later there were many trials, the greatest of which was that
of King Charles I., followed by that of the regicides, brought to justice and the fruit of
their crimes in a way they had not expected when they took prominent parts in the first great
drama. Cromwell's head was stuck upon the southern gable of the hall, where it remained for
twenty years. The trial of the Seven Bishops caused great excitement, that of Lords Kenmure
and Derwentwater hardly less. Lord Byron was tried in Westminster Hall, and every child has
heard of the arraignment of Warren Hastings. Surely, if ever a building had memories of historic
dramas, played upon its floor as on a stage, it is Rufus's great hall at Westminster.

Parliament was first called to Westminster in Edward I.'s reign. The Commons sat for 300 years
in the Abbey Chapter-house, then for 300 years more in St. Stephen's Chapel. In 1790 a report
on the buildings declared them to be defective and in great danger of fire, a prophecy fulfilled
in 1834. On the evening of October 16 in that year the wife of a doorkeeper saw a light under
one of the doors, and gave an alarm. The place was made for a bonfire; a strong wind blowing
from the south, and afterwards south-west, drove the flames along the dried woodwork and through
the draughty passages. As the flames got a stronger and stronger hold, the scene from the further
bank of the river was magnificent. Until three o'clock the next day the fire raged, and Westminster
Hall and the crypt of St. Stephen's Chapel alone survived the wreck. The cause of the fire
is said to have been the heating of the flues by some workmen burning a quantity of tallies
or ancient notched sticks.

The present Houses of Parliament, built after the fire from Sir Charles Barry's designs, have
been the cause of much of that criticism which is applied to the work of some people by others
who certainly could not do so well themselves. The material used is magnesian limestone, which,
unfortunately, has not worn well; and the erection took seventeen years (1840-57). On Saturday
afternoons the door under the Victoria Tower, south end, is open, and anyone may walk through
the principal rooms. This is well worth doing, though what is to be seen is mostly modern.
What will chiefly astonish strangers is the smallness of the House of Commons.

The Clock Tower, 316 feet high, containing Big Ben, and standing at the north end of the present
Houses of Parliament, is a notable object, and a landmark for miles around. Ben was called
after Sir Benjamin Hall, who was First Commissioner of Works at the time he was brought into being.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bridge Street was formed at the building of the bridge, and is almost on the site of the Long
Woolstaple.

In the reign of King Edward III., in the year 1353, Westminster was made one of the ten towns
in England where the staple or market for wool might be held. This had formerly been held in
Flanders, and the removal of the market to England brought a great increase to the Royal revenue,
for on every sack exported the King received a certain sum. Pennant says: "The concourse of
people which this removal of the Woolstaple to Westminster occasioned caused this Royal village
to grow into a considerable town."

Henry VI. held six wool-houses in the Staple, which he granted to the Dean and Canons of St.
Stephen's.

Walcott says: "On the north side of the Long Staple was a turning in a westerly direction leading
into the Round Staple, at the south-east end of the present King Street." This must have been
on the site of the present Great George Street. An attempt was made to establish a fish-market
here in competition with Billingsgate, but the pre-established interest was too strong and
the fish-market was abandoned.

There was a gateway at the end of the Staple. This was still in existence in 1741, when it
was pulled down in view of the new bridge.

There has been much dispute as to the origin of the name of Cannon Row. Some hold that it was
derived from the prebendal houses of the Canons of St. Stephen's Chapel, and others that it
was a corruption of Channel Row, from the arm of the river which entered near the spot. There
were many noble houses here at one time. The Earl of Derby in 1552 had two houses, with gardens
stretching to the river, granted to him by Edward VI.

Anne, Duchess of Somerset, built a house here. The Marquis of Dorset's house gave its name
to a court subsequently built on its site. In 1556-57 the Earl of Sussex lived here, and in
1618 a later Earl of Derby built a house, afterwards used as the Admiralty Office. The name
is preserved in Derby Street. The Earl of Essex, Lord Halifax, and the Bishop of Peterborough
were all residents in this row. In the middle of the seventeenth century the Duke of Manchester,
Lord Privy Seal, resided here also. At present the row is very dreary. The building in which
the Civil Service examinations are held stands on the east side. This was erected in 1784 for
the Ordnance Board, then given to the Board of Control, and finally to the Civil Service Commissioners.

The Victoria Embankment was begun in 1864, and completed about six years later. The wall is
of brick, faced with granite and founded in Portland cement; it looks solid enough to withstand
the tides of many a hundred years. The parapet is of granite, decorated by cast-iron standard
lamps. St Stephen's Club is on the Embankment, close by Westminster Bridge Station. Further
on is the huge building of the Police Commissioners, known as New Scotland Yard, built in 1890
from designs of Norman Shaw, R.A. It is the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police Force,
and the architecture is singularly well in keeping with its object. The building is of red
brick, with the tower floors cased in granite. It is in the form of a square, built round an
inner courtyard, and has an immense bastion at each exterior angle. Besides the offices of
the police force, the Lost Property Office, the Public Carriage Office, and the Criminal Investigation
Department are here. The building communicates directly by telephone with the Horse Guards,
Houses of Parliament, British Museum, and other public places, and has telegraphic communication
with the twenty-two head-offices of the Metropolitan Police district. The Criminal Museum is
open to the public under certain conditions.

