...The feeling of loyalty in this country is happily very strong, and wherever we show ourselves
we are most heartily and warmly received, and the civilities and respect shown to us by those
we visit is most satisfactory. I mention merely a trifling instance to show how respectful
they are--the Duke of Buckingham, who is immensely proud, bringing the cup of coffee after
dinner on a waiter to Albert himself. And everywhere my dearest Angel receives the respect
and honours I receive.

Many thanks for returning the list;[3] it was not Albert but Tatane who made the black crosses.
Are not "Les 3 Mousquetaires," by Dumas, and "Arthur," by Eugène Sue, readable for me?

Now adieu, dearest, best Uncle. Ever your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 3: A list of French books which the Queen was
    proposing to read.]

[PAGEHEADING: STATE OF BUCKINGHAM PALACE]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

PAVILION, 10th February 1845.

Though the Queen knows that Sir Robert Peel has already turned his attention to the urgent
necessity of doing something to Buckingham Palace, the Queen thinks it right to recommend this
subject herself to his serious consideration. Sir Robert is acquainted with the state of the
Palace and the total want of accommodation for our little family, which is fast growing up.
Any building must necessarily take some years before it can be safely inhabited. If it were
to be begun this autumn, it could hardly be occupied before the spring of 1848, when the Prince
of Wales would be nearly seven, and the Princess Royal nearly eight years old, and they cannot
possibly be kept in the nursery any longer. A provision for this purpose ought, therefore,
to be made this year. Independent of this, most parts of the Palace are in a sad state, and
will ere long require a further outlay to render them decent for the occupation of the Royal
Family or any visitors the Queen may have to receive. A room, capable of containing a larger
number of those persons whom the Queen has to invite in the course of the season to balls,
concerts, etc., than any of the present apartments can at once hold, is much wanted. Equally
so, improved offices and servants' rooms, the want of which puts the departments of the household
to great expense yearly. It will be for Sir Robert to consider whether it would not be best
to remedy all these deficiencies at once, and to make use of this opportunity to render the
exterior of the Palace such as no longer to be a disgrace to the country, which it certainly
now is. The Queen thinks the country would be better pleased to have the question of the Sovereign's
residence in London so finally disposed of, than to have it so repeatedly brought before it.[4]

    [Footnote 4: Peel replied that, as a renewal of the Income Tax
    was about to be proposed, it would be better to postpone the
    application to Parliament till the public feeling as to the
    tax had been ascertained.]

[PAGEHEADING: TITLE OF KING CONSORT]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

PAVILION, 18th February 1845.

The Queen has received Sir Robert Peel's letter, and is glad that the progress in the House
of Commons was so satisfactory.

    SIR,--I received yesterday the accompanying note from Mr
    Borthwick, and in conformity with the notice therein given,
    he put the question to me in the House of Commons last evening
    respecting the paragraph which appeared in the Morning
    Chronicle respecting the intention of proposing to Parliament
    that your Royal Highness should assume the title of King
    Consort.

    I very much regret that the Morning Chronicle inserted that
    paragraph.

    The prominent place assigned to it in the newspaper, and a
    vague intimation that there was some authority for it, have
    caused a certain degree of credit to be attached to it. It has
    been copied into all the country newspapers and has given rise
    to a good deal of conjecture and speculation, which it is far
    from desirable to excite without necessity.

    It appears to me that the editor of the Morning Chronicle
    acted most unwarrantably in inserting such a paragraph with a
    pretence of some sort of authority for it.

    It has produced an impression which strongly confirms the
    observations which I took the liberty of making to your Royal
    Highness on Sunday evening.

    I trust, however, that my decided contradiction of the
    paragraph will put a stop to further surmise and discussion on
    the subject.

    To Mr Borthwick's note I add one of several letters
    addressed to me, which shows the proneness to speculate upon
    constitutional novelties.

    I have the honour to be, Sir, with sincere respect, your Royal
    Highness's most faithful and obedient Servant,

    ROBERT PEEL.]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 24th March 1845.

The Queen has received Sir Robert Peel's box containing his recommendation relative to the
filling up of the vacant Bishopric of Ely. The Queen quite approves of the present Dean of
Westminster[7] as the new Bishop. As Sir Robert has asked the Queen whether she would like
to see Archdeacon Wilberforce succeed to the Deanery of Westminster in case the Dean should
accept the Bishopric, she must say that such an arrangement would be very satisfactory to us,
and the Queen believes would highly please the Archdeacon. This would again vacate, the Queen
believes, a stall at Winchester, which she would like to see filled by a person decidedly adverse
to Puseyism.

The Queen approves of the Bishop of Lichfield[8] being transferred to the See of Ely in case
Doctor Turton should decline it.

It would give the Queen much pleasure to stand sponsor to Sir Robert Peel's little grandson,
and perhaps Sir Robert would communicate this to Lady Villiers.

    [Footnote 7: Dr Thomas Turton (1780-1864), formerly Dean of
    Peterborough.]

    [Footnote 8: John Lonsdale (1788-1867) was Bishop of Lichfield
    from 1843 till his death.]

[Pageheading: PURCHASE OF OSBORNE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 25th March 1845.

... I copied what you wrote me about Peel[9] in a letter I wrote him, which I am sure will
please him much, and a Minister in these days does require a little encouragement, for the
abuse and difficulties they have to contend with are dreadful. Peel works so hard and has so
much to do, that sometimes he says he does not know how he is to get through it all!

You will, I am sure, be pleased to hear that we have succeeded in purchasing Osborne in the
Isle of Wight,[10] and if we can manage it, we shall probably run down there before we return
to Town, for three nights. It sounds so snug and nice to have a place of one's own, quiet and
retired, and free from all Woods and Forests, and other charming Departments who really are
the plague of one's life.

Now, dearest Uncle, adieu. Ever your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 9: See Peel's reply, Life of the Prince Consort,
    chap. xiii.]

    [Footnote 10: The purchase was suggested by Sir Robert Peel.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 3rd April 1845.

The Queen had intended to have written to Lord Melbourne from Osborne to thank him for his
last note of the 19th, but we were so occupied, and so delighted with our new and really delightful
home, that she hardly had time for anything; besides which the weather was so beautiful, that
we were out almost all day. The Queen refers Lord Melbourne to Mr Anson for particulars of
the new property, which is very extensive, as she is not at all competent to explain about
acres, etc. But she thinks it is impossible to imagine a prettier spot--valleys and woods which
would be beautiful anywhere; but all this near the sea (the woods grow into the sea) is quite
perfection; we have a charming beach quite to ourselves. The sea was so blue and calm that
the Prince said it was like Naples. And then we can walk about anywhere by ourselves without
being followed and mobbed, which Lord Melbourne will easily understand is delightful. And last,
not least, we have Portsmouth and Spithead so close at hand, that we shall be able to watch
what is going on, which will please the Navy, and be hereafter very useful for our boys.

The Children are all well. The Queen has just had a lithograph made after a little drawing
which she did herself of the three eldest, and which she will send Lord Melbourne with some
Eau de Cologne.

Fanny and Lord Jocelyn dined here last night; she is looking very well, and he seems much pleased
at being in office, and being employed.

The Queen hopes Lord Melbourne is enjoying this fine weather, and here concludes with the Prince's
kind remembrance.

[Pageheading: THE MAYNOOTH GRANT]

[Pageheading: RELIGIOUS BIGOTRY]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 15th April 1845.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--Here we are in a great state of agitation about one of the greatest measures
ever proposed;[11] I am sure poor Peel ought to be blessed by all Catholics for the manly and
noble way in which he stands forth to protect and do good to poor Ireland. But the bigotry,
the wicked and blind passions it brings forth is quite dreadful, and I blush for Protestantism![12]
A Presbyterian clergyman said very truly, "Bigotry is more common than shame...."

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 23rd April 1845.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Our Maynooth Bill is through the second reading. I think, if you read Sir
Robert's admirable speeches, you will see how good his plan is. The Catholics are quite delighted
at it--full of gratitude, and behave extremely well; but the Protestants behave shockingly,
and display a narrow-mindedness and want of sense on the subject of religion which is quite
a disgrace to the nation. The case of Austria, France, etc., cannot be compared to this, as
this is a Protestant country, while the others are Catholic; and I think it would never do
to support a Roman Catholic Church with money belonging to the Protestant Church. The Protestant
Establishment in Ireland must remain untouched, but let the Roman Catholic Clergy be well and
handsomely educated.

The Duc de Broglie[13] dined with us last night; his travaux are going on satisfactorily; he
asked when you were coming, and said you were "beaucoup Anglais et un peu Français," which
is true, I think.

With Albert's affectionate respects, believe me always, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 13: Achille Charles, Duc de Broglie, ex-Minister of
    Foreign Affairs.]

Mr Goulburn[14] to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 30th April 1845.

Mr Goulburn submits with his humble duty to your Majesty that several representations have
been made to the Treasury as to the convenience which the public would derive from the circulation
of silver threepenny-pieces. Such pieces are lawfully current under your Majesty's Proclamation
of the 5th July 1838. But as such pieces have been hitherto reserved as your Majesty's Maundy
money, and as such especially belong to your Majesty's service, Mr Goulburn considers that
a coinage of them for general use could not take place without a particular signification of
your Majesty's pleasure.

Mr Goulburn therefore humbly submits for your Majesty's gracious consideration the signification
of your Majesty's pleasure as to the issue of such a coinage.

    [Footnote 14: Chancellor of the Exchequer.]

[Pageheading: PUBLIC EXECUTIONS]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 13th May 1845.

The proceedings in Newgate on the occasion of the last condemned sermon and on the morning
of the execution have been fully investigated;[15] and the report established the necessity
of legislative interference to prevent the recurrence of scenes so disgraceful and demoralising.
The policy of depriving capital executions of their present publicity is well worthy of careful
revision; and Sir James Graham, in obedience to your Majesty's desire, will bring the subject
under the notice of his colleagues. He is disposed to think that the sentence might be carried
into execution in the presence of a Jury to be summoned by the Sheriff with good effect; and
that the great body of idle spectators might be excluded, without diminishing the salutary
terror and awful warning which this extreme punishment is intended to produce on the public
mind. In dealing, however, with a matter in which the community has so deep an interest, it
is prudent not to violate public opinion, and caution is necessary before a change of the long-established
usage is proposed.[16]

Sir James Graham deeply regrets the part taken by the newspapers in seeking to indulge the
general curiosity with respect to all details of the conduct, habits, and demeanour of these
wretched criminals in their last moments; but he fears that the license of the Press cannot
be checked by any act of authority; if the public be excluded from witnessing the executions,
they will probably become still more anxious to obtain a printed report of all that has taken
place; and Sir James Graham is so thoroughly convinced that the punishment of death in certain
cases must be maintained, that he would consider any course inexpedient which was likely to
lead the public to desire the remission of capital executions in all cases without exception....

J. R. G. GRAHAM.

MY DEAREST AND MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--Receive my sincerest and most heartfelt good wishes
on the happy reappearance of your birthday. I need not dwell on my sentiments of devotion to
you; they began with your life, and will only end with mine. The only claim I make is to be
remembered with some little affection. Thank heaven, I have little to wish you, than that your
present happiness may not be disturbed, and that those who are dear to you may be preserved
for your happiness.

My gift is Charlotte's portrait. The face is extremely like, and the likest that exists; the
hair is a little too fair, it had become also darker. I take this opportunity to repeat that
Charlotte was a noble-minded and highly gifted creature. She was nervous, as all the family
have been; she could be violent, but then she was full of repentance for it, and her disposition
highly generous and susceptible of great devotion.

I am the more bound to say this, as I understood that you had some notion that she had been
very imperious, and not mistress of her temper. Before her marriage some people by dint of
flattery had tried to give her masculine tastes; and in short had pushed her to become one
day a sort of Queen Elizabeth. These sentiments were already a little modified before her marriage.
But she was particularly determined to be a good and obedient wife; some of her friends were
anxious she should not; amongst these Madame de Flahaut must be mentioned en première ligne.

This became even a subject which severed the intimacy between them. Madame de Flahaut, much
older than Charlotte, and of a sour and determined character, had gained an influence which
partook on Charlotte's part a little of fear. She was afraid of her, but when once supported
took courage.

People were much struck on the 2nd of May 1816 at Carlton House with the clearness and firmness
with which she pronounced "and obey," etc., as there had been a general belief that it would
be for the husband to give these promises. The Regent put me particularly on my guard, and
said, "If you don't resist she will govern you with a high hand." Your own experience has convinced
you that real affection changes many sentiments that may have been implanted into the mind
of a young girl. With Charlotte it was the more meritorious, as from a very early period of
her life she was considered as the heiress of the Crown; the Whigs flattered her extremely,
and later, when she got by my intervention reconciled to the Tories, they also made great efforts
to please her.

Her understanding was extremely good; she knew everybody, and I even afterwards found her judgment
generally extremely correct. She had read a great deal and knew well what she had read. Generous
she was almost too much, and her devotion was quite affecting, from a character so much pushed
to be selfish and imperious.

I will here end my souvenir of poor dear Charlotte, but I thought that the subject could not
but be interesting to you. Her constancy in wishing to marry me, which she maintained under
difficulties of every description, has been the foundation of all that touched the family afterwards.
You know, I believe, that your poor father was the chief promoter, though also the Yorks were;
but our correspondence from 1814 till 1816 was entirely carried on through his kind intervention;
it would otherwise have been impossible, as she was really treated as a sort of prisoner. Grant
always to that good and generous Charlotte, who sleeps already with her beautiful little boy
so long, where all will go to, an affectionate remembrance, and believe me she deserves it.

Forgive my long letter, and see in it, what it really is, a token of the great affection I
have for you.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 12th June 1845.

The Queen understands that the Deanery of Worcester has become vacant by some new arrangement.
Believing that Sir Robert's brother, Mr John Peel, has a fair claim to such preferment, but
being afraid that Sir Robert would perhaps hesitate to recommend him on account of his near
relationship to him, the Queen wishes to offer herself this Deanery through Sir Robert to his
brother.

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 12th June 1845.

Sir Robert Peel, with his humble duty to your Majesty, hastens to acknowledge your Majesty's
most kind and considerate communication, and to express his grateful acknowledgments for it.

He must, in justice to his brother, assure your Majesty that he never has expressed, and probably
never would express, a wish to Sir Robert Peel on the subject of preferment in the Church.

Sir Robert Peel might have hesitated to bring the name of one so nearly connected with him
under the notice of your Majesty, but as his brother was highly distinguished in his academical
career at Oxford, and is greatly respected for the discharge of every professional duty, Sir
Robert Peel could not feel himself justified in offering an impediment to the fulfilment of
your Majesty's gracious intentions in his favour, if, when the vacancy shall have actually
occurred in the Deanery of Worcester, no superior claim should be preferred.[17]

    [Footnote 17: Dean Peel lived till 1875.]

[Pageheading: AUSTRALIAN WINE]

Lord Stanley to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 10th July 1845.

Lord Stanley, with his humble duty, submits to your Majesty a despatch just received from the
Governor of South Australia, enclosing the letter of a settler in the province, Mr Walter Duffield,
who is anxious to be allowed the honour of offering for your Majesty's acceptance a case of
the first wine which has been made in the colony.

Lord Stanley will not venture to answer for the quality of the vintage; but as the wine has
been sent over with a loyal and dutiful feeling, and the importer, as well as the colonists
in general, might feel hurt by a refusal of his humble offering, he ventures to hope that he
may be permitted to signify, through the Governor, your Majesty's gracious acceptance of the
first sample of a manufacture which, if successful, may add greatly to the resources of this
young but now thriving colony.

The above is humbly submitted by your Majesty's most dutiful Servant and Subject,

STANLEY.

[Pageheading: THE KING OF HOLLAND]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 29th July 1845.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Accept my best thanks for your very kind little note of the 26th. As Albert
writes to you about the King of Holland's visit[18] I will say but little, except that it really
went off wonderfully well in our little house. We took him a sail in the Victoria and Albert
on Saturday, which he admired amazingly, and after luncheon he went away, Albert taking him
over to Gosport. He intends, I believe, to come here one morning for luncheon to take leave.
He is grown old, and has lost all his front teeth, but he is as talkative and lively as he
used to be, and seems very happy to be in England again. He was very anxious that we should
pay him a visit this year, but was quite satisfied when we told him that this year it was impossible,
but that we hoped some other time to do so. He was much struck at seeing me now independent
and unembarrassed, and talking; as when he was here in 1836[19] I was extremely crushed and
kept under and hardly dared say a word, so that he was quite astonished. He thought me grown.
Believe me, always, dearest Uncle, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 18: This visit lasted ten days, and included a visit
    to Goodwood races and a review of the Household troops in Hyde
    Park. His Majesty was also appointed a Field-Marshal.]

    [Footnote 19: Ante, vol. i. p. 47. He was then Prince of
    Orange, and succeeded his father, who abdicated in his favour
    in 1840.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

OSBORNE, 31st July 1845.

The Queen thanks Lord Melbourne very much for his last kind letter of the 11th, by which she
was truly rejoiced to see he was better. We are comfortably and peacefully established here
since the 19th, and derive the greatest benefit, pleasure, and satisfaction from our little
possession here. The dear Prince is constantly occupied in directing the many necessary improvements
which are to be made, and in watching our new house, which is a constant interest and amusement.
We are most anxiously waiting for the conclusion of the Session that we may set off on our
much-wished-for journey to Germany. The Queen is extremely sorry to leave England without seeing
Lord Melbourne, and without having seen him all this season; but something or other always
prevented us from seeing Lord Melbourne each time we hoped to do so. We only return the night
before the Prorogation and embark that same day. We have the children here. We went to the
Undercliff--Ventnor, Bonchurch, etc.--on Monday, and were much delighted with all we saw. We
had a visit from the King of Holland last week, who is grown old, but otherwise just the same
as he used to be.

The Queen joins with Lord Melbourne in unfeigned satisfaction at the success of the Irish measures,
after so much factious opposition. Lord Grey's death[20] will have shocked Lord Melbourne,
as it has us. Poor Lord Dunmore's death is a very shocking event. The Prince wishes to be most
kindly remembered to Lord Melbourne.

    [Footnote 20: Charles, second Earl Grey, had been Prime
    Minister, 1830-1834.]

[Pageheading: THE SOVEREIGN'S ABSENCE]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 6th August 1845.

Sir Robert Peel thinks it very probable that a motion will be made upon the subject in the
course of the next Session--particularly in the event of any occurrence during your Majesty's
absence, which might cause public inconvenience from the want of immediate access to the Royal
authority, or compel any assumption of power on the part of your Majesty's servants of a questionable
character.

The present Law Officers of the Crown were rather startled at the intention of departing from
the precedent of George IV.'s reign, on seeing the legal opinions of their predecessors; they
did not differ from the legal doctrines laid down by them, but were not very well satisfied
on the point of discretion and policy.

Sir Robert Peel feels it to be his duty to state to your Majesty what has passed on this subject,
and to apprize your Majesty of the possibility of a question being hereafter raised in Parliament
upon it.

Sir Robert Peel thinks that in the case of a short absence, and a distance not precluding easy
and rapid communication with your Majesty, the appointment of Lords Justices may be dispensed
with; but he is humbly of opinion that were the distance greater or the period of absence longer
than that contemplated by your Majesty, the reasons for the nomination of Lords Justices would
preponderate.

Should the subject be again mentioned in Parliament and a direct question be put upon it, Sir
Robert Peel will, of course, assume the entire responsibility for the non-appointment of Lords
Justices; vindicating the departure from the precedent of George IV. on the ground of the shorter
period of absence and the more easy means of communication.[21]...

    [Footnote 21: The Queen was accompanied by a Secretary of
    State (Lord Aberdeen), so that an act of State could be
    performed as well abroad as at home; see Life of the Prince
    Consort, vol. i. p. 272.]

[Pageheading: VISIT TO THE CHÂTEAU D'EU]

[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGES]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Sir Robert Peel.

CHÂTEAU D'EU, 8th September 1845.

MY DEAR PEEL,--We left Antwerp very early yesterday morning, and anchored for a few hours off
Flushing.[22] We passing down the Channel during the night, and as the weather was perfectly
bright and fine, found ourselves off Tréport before nine o'clock this morning. The King came
off to the yacht, and took the Queen in his barge to land. I need not say how joyfully she
was received by all the Royal Family.

Although I shall have opportunities, both this evening and to-morrow morning, of speaking again
with the King and Guizot, I have already discussed several subjects with each of them; and
as the Queen particularly desires to send a messenger this evening, I will give you some notion
of what has passed between us.

I think the marriage of the Queen of Spain is the subject on which the greatest interest is
felt at this moment. It was the first introduced, both by the King and Guizot, and treated
by both in the same manner. They said, that having promised to support the King of Naples,
they were bound not to abandon the Count de Trapani, so long as there was a chance of his being
successful in his suit. I said in answer to their desire, that we would assist this arrangement,
that we had no objection to Count Trapani, and that we would take no part against him; but
unless it should be the decided wish of the Spanish Government and people, we could give no
support to the marriage, as we were honestly of opinion that it was not desired in Spain, and
that we saw nothing in the proposal to call for our support under these circumstances. Both
the King and Guizot said they had no objection to the Duke of Saville[23] (Don Enrique), and
that if it should be found that Count Trapani was impossible, they would willingly support him.

With respect to the Infanta, they both declared in the most positive and explicit manner, that
until the Queen was married and had children, they should consider the Infanta precisely as
her sister, and that any marriage with a French Prince would be entirely out of the question.
The King said he did not wish that his son should have the prospect of being on the throne
of Spain; but that if the Queen had children, by whom the succession would be secured, he did
not engage to preclude himself from the possibility of profiting by the great inheritance which
the Infanta would bring his son. All this, however, was uncertain, and would require time at
all events to accomplish; for I distinctly understood, that it was not only a marriage and
a child, but children, that were necessary to secure the succession.

I thought this was as much as we could desire at present, and that the policy of a marriage
with a French Prince might safely be left to be considered whenever the contingency contemplated
should arrive. Many things may happen, both in France and Spain, in the course of a few years
to affect this question in a manner not now apparent.

ABERDEEN.

    [Footnote 22: Parliament was prorogued on the 9th of August,
    and the Queen and Prince sailed in the evening for Antwerp
    in the Royal yacht. Sir Theodore Martin gives a very full
    description of the visit to Coburg. The Queen was especially
    delighted with the Rosenau and Reinhardtsbrunn. On the morning
    of the 8th of September the yacht, which had left the Scheldt
    on the previous evening, arrived at Tréport, and a second
    visit was paid to the King and Queen of the French at the
    Château d'Eu.]

    [Footnote 23: Younger son of Don Francisco de Paula, and first
    cousin to Queen Isabella, both through his father and his
    mother.]

[Pageheading: CHURCH APPOINTMENTS]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

OSBORNE, 15th September 1845.

Sir Robert Peel humbly recommends to your Majesty that another sum of £200 should be offered
to Mr Tennyson, a poet of whose powers of imagination and expression many competent judges
think most highly.

He was brought under the notice of Sir Robert Peel by Mr Hallam. His pecuniary circumstances
are far from being prosperous.

There is a vacancy in the Deanery of Lincoln, but the preferment is less eligible from there
being no residence, and the necessity for building one at the immediate expense of the new Dean.

Sir Robert Peel is inclined to recommend to your Majesty that an offer of this preferment should
be made to Mr Ward, the Rector of St James's.

Should Mr Ward decline, there is a clergyman of the name of Maurice,[24] of whom the Archbishop
says: "Of unbeneficed London clergy there is no one, I believe, who is so much distinguished
by his learning and literary talent as the Rev. Frederick Maurice, Chaplain of St Guy's Hospital.
His private character is equally estimable."

Should Mr Ward decline[25] the Deanery it might, should your Majesty approve of it, be offered
to Mr Maurice. The Archbishop says that the appointment of Mr Maurice would be very gratifying
to the King of Prussia.

    [Footnote 24: Frederick Denison Maurice (1805-1872), the
    friend of Kingsley, afterwards Chaplain of St. Peter's, Vere
    Street.]

    [Footnote 25: Mr Ward accepted the Deanery.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

ST CLOUD, 10th October 1845.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... All you say about our dear Albert, whom I love like my own child,
is perfectly true. The attacks, however unjust, have but one advantage, that of showing the
points the enemy thinks weakest and best calculated to hurt. This, being the case, Anson, without
boring A. with daily accounts which in the end become very irksome, should pay attention to
these very points, and contribute to avoid what may be turned to account by the enemy. To hope
to escape censure and calumny is next to impossible, but whatever is considered by the enemy
as a fit subject for attack is better modified or avoided. The dealings with artists, for instance,
require great prudence; they are acquainted with all classes of society, and for that very
reason dangerous; they are hardly ever satisfied, and when you have too much to do with them,
you are sure to have des ennuis.... Your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: LORD METCALFE]

Queen Victoria to Lord Stanley.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 2nd November 1845.

The Queen has read with great concern Lord Stanley's letter of the 1st November. From private
information she had been led to expect that Lord Metcalfe would not be able to continue at
his irksome post.[26] He will be an immense loss, and the selection of a successor will be
most difficult. The Queen hopes that there will not be too great a delay in making the new
appointment, as experience has shown that nothing was more detrimental to the good government
of Canada than the last interregnum after Sir Charles Bagot's death; it would certainly likewise
be desirable that Lord Metcalfe should be able personally to make over his Government to his
successor, whom he could verbally better put in possession of the peculiarities of his position
than any instructions could do. It strikes the Queen to be of the greatest importance, that
the judicious system pursued by Lord Metcalfe (and which, after a long continuation of toil
and adversities, only now just begins to show its effect) should be followed up by his successor.

The Queen knows nobody who would be as fit for the appointment as Lord Elgin, who seems to
have given great satisfaction in Jamaica, where he has already succeeded Lord Metcalfe, whose
original appointment there had likewise taken place under circumstances of great difficulty,
which his prudence and firmness finally overcame.[27]

    [Footnote 26: He retired from the Governor-Generalship of
    Canada through ill-health.]

    [Footnote 27: Lord Stanley, in reply, submitted a private
    letter from Lord Elgin, expressing a wish to return home; Earl
    Cathcart was provisionally appointed Governor-General.]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

OSBORNE, 28th November 1845.

The Queen is very sorry to hear that Sir Robert Peel apprehends further differences of opinion
in the Cabinet, at a moment of impending calamity; it is more than ever necessary that the
Government should be strong and united.

The Queen thinks the time is come when a removal of the restrictions
upon the importation of food cannot be successfully resisted. Should
this be Sir Robert's own opinion, the Queen very much hopes that none
of his colleagues will prevent him from doing what it is right to
do. The story has obtained a wide currency
    through Mr Meredith's Diana of the Crossways. Lord Stanmore,
    in his Life of Sidney Herbert, substantially attributes
    the communication to Lord Aberdeen, but does not give the
    details.]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.[29]

WHITEHALL, 5th December 1845.

(Friday evening.)

Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and will wait upon your Majesty to-morrow
evening, leaving London by the half-past twelve train.

Sir Robert Peel will avail himself of your Majesty's kind proposal to remain at Osborne until
Monday morning.

He will come to Osborne with a heart full of gratitude and devotion to your Majesty, but with
a strong conviction (all the grounds for which he will, with your Majesty's permission, explain
to your Majesty) that in the present state of affairs, he can render more service to your Majesty
and to the country in a private than in a public station.

    [Footnote 29: Peel reported to the Queen the Cabinet
    discussions on the Corn Law question. The Queen wrote that
    the news caused her much uneasiness, and that she felt certain
    that her Minister would not leave her at a moment of such
    difficulty, and when a crisis was impending.]

[Pageheading: CABINET DISSENSIONS]

[Pageheading: INTERVIEW WITH PEEL]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

OSBORNE, 7th December 1845.

On receiving the preceding letter[30] ... we were, of course, in great consternation. Yesterday
Sir Robert Peel arrived here and explained the condition of affairs.

    [Footnote 30: From Sir Robert Peel, 5th December, ante.]

On 1st November he had called his Cabinet, and placed before its members the reports of the
Irish Commissioners, Dr Buckland, Dr Playfair and Dr Lindley, on the condition of the potato
crop, which was to the effect that the half of the potatoes were ruined by the rot, and that
no one could guarantee the remainder. Belgium, Holland, Sweden, and Denmark, in which states
the potato disease had likewise deprived the poorer class of its usual food, have immediately
taken energetic means, and have opened the harbours, bought corn, and provided for the case
of a rise of prices. Sir Robert proposed the same thing for England, and, by opening the ports,
a preparation for the abolition of the Corn Laws. Sir Robert hoped that in time the opinions
of the others would change, and therefore postponed a final decision. In the meanwhile the
agitation of the Anti-Corn Law League began; in every town addresses were voted, meetings were
held, the Times--barometer of public feeling--became suddenly violently Anti-Corn Law, the
meetings of the Cabinet roused attention, a general panic seized on the mass of the public.
Sir Robert called anew his Cabinet. In the midst of their deliberation Lord John Russell issues
from Edinburgh an address to the City of London.[31]

    [Footnote 31: Declaring for the Repeal of the Corn Laws.]

The whole country cries out: the Corn Laws are doomed.

Thereon Sir Robert declared to his Cabinet that nothing but unanimity could save the cause,
and pressed for a decision.

The Duke of Buccleuch and Lord Stanley declared they could not take a part in a measure abolishing
the Corn Laws, and would therefore have to resign. The other members, including the Duke of
Wellington, showed themselves ready to support Sir Robert, yet, as the latter says, "apparently
not willingly and against their feelings." Thereupon Sir Robert resolved to lay down his office
as Minister.

When he arrived here he was visibly much moved, and said to me, that it was one of the most
painful moments of his life to separate himself from us, "but it is necessary, and if I have
erred it was from loyalty and too great an anxiety not to leave Her Majesty in a moment of
such great difficulty. I ought to have gone when I was first left by my colleagues in a minority
in my own Cabinet. I was anxious, however, to try my utmost, but it is impossible to retrieve
lost time. As soon as I saw Lord John's letter I felt that the ground was slipping away from
under me, and that whatever I might now propose would appear as dictated by the Opposition,
as taking Lord John's measure. On the 1st of November the whole country was prepared for the
thing; there had been no agitation, everybody looking to the Government, as soon as they saw
this wavering and hesitating, the country decided for itself, and Lord John has the merit,
owing to his most dexterous move and our want of unanimity."

On my observing that Sir Robert has a majority of one hundred in the House of Commons, and
asking whether it was not possible for him to continue the Government, he said:--

"The Duke of Buccleuch will carry half Scotland with him, and Lord Stanley, leading the Protectionists
in the House of Lords, would lead to great and immediate defections even in Her Majesty's household.
The Duchess of Buccleuch, Lord Hardwicke, Lord Exeter, Lord Rivers, Lord Beverley, etc., would
resign, and we should not be able to find successors; in the House of Commons I am sure I should
be beat, the Tories, agriculturists, etc., in rage would turn round upon me and be joined by
the Whigs and Radicals, who would say, 'This is our measure and we will not allow you to carry
it.' It is better that I should go now, when nobody has committed himself in the heat of party
contest, when no factions have been formed, no imprudent declarations been made; it is better
for Her Majesty and for the country that it should be so."

After we had examined what possibilities were open for the Crown, the conclusion was come to
that Lord John was the only man who could be charged with forming a Cabinet. Lord Stanley,
with the aristocracy as his base, would bring about an insurrection [or riots], and the ground
on which one would have to fight would be this: to want to force the mass of the people, amidst
their great poverty, to pay for their bread a high price, in favour of the landlords.

It is a matter of the utmost importance not to place the House of Lords into direct antagonism
with the Commons and with the masses of the people. Sir Robert says very correctly:--

"I am afraid of other interests getting damaged in the struggle about the Corn Laws; already
the system of promotion in the Army, the Game Laws, the Church, are getting attacked with the
aid of the league."

After Victoria had in consequence [of the foregoing] decided in favour of Lord John, and asked
Sir Robert: "But how is it possible for him to govern with so exceedingly small a minority?"
Sir Robert said: "He will have difficulties and perhaps did not consider what he was doing
when he wrote that letter; but I will support him. I feel it my duty to your Majesty not to
leave you without a Government. Even if Lord John goes to the full extent of his declaration
in that letter (which I think goes too far), I will support him in Parliament and use all my
influence with the House of Lords to prevent their impeding his progress. I will do more, if
he likes it. I will say that the increase of the estimates which will become necessary are
my work, and I alone am responsible for it."

Sir Robert intends to give me a memorandum in which he is to make this promise in writing.

He was greatly moved, and said it was not "the loss of power (for I hate power) nor of office,"
which was nothing but a plague for him, but "the breaking up of those relations in which he
stood to the Queen and me, and the loss of our society," which was for him a loss, for which
there was no equivalent; we might, however, rely on his being always ready to serve us, in
what manner and in what place it might be. Lord Aberdeen is said to feel the same, and very
deeply so; and on our side the loss of two so estimable men, who possess our whole and perfect
confidence in public as well as in private affairs, and have always proved themselves true
friends, leaves a great gap.

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE INFORMED]

Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

OSBORNE, 7th December 1845.

Sir Robert Peel has informed the Queen that in consequence of differences prevailing in the
Cabinet, he is very reluctantly compelled to solicit from the Queen the acceptance of his resignation,
which she has as reluctantly accepted.

From the Queen's unabated confidence in Lord Melbourne, her first impulse was to request his
immediate attendance here that she might have the benefit of his assistance and advice, but
on reflection the Queen does not think herself justified, in the present state of Lord Melbourne's
health, to ask him to make the sacrifice which the return to his former position of Prime Minister
would, she fears, impose upon him.

It is this consideration, and this alone, that has induced the Queen to address to Lord John
Russell the letter of which she sends a copy. The Queen hopes, however, that Lord Melbourne
will not withhold from her new Government his advice, which would be so valuable to her.

It is of the utmost importance that the whole of this communication should be kept a most profound
secret until the Queen has seen Lord John Russell.

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE'S ATTITUDE]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

8th December 1845.

Sir Robert helped us in the composition of the letters to Lord John and to Lord Melbourne.
We considered it necessary to write to the latter, in consideration of the confidential position
which he formerly enjoyed.

Sir Robert Peel has not resigned, thinking it a matter of great strength for the Sovereign
to keep his ministry until a new one can be got.

ALBERT.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL, 9th December 1845. Lord Melbourne returns your Majesty many thanks for this communication,
and more for your Majesty's great kindness and consideration for him personally at the present
moment. He is better, but so long a journey would still not have been convenient to him, and
he has such a horror of the sea, that a voyage from Southampton to Cowes or from Portsmouth
to Ryde seems to him in prospect as formidable as a voyage across the Atlantic.

Lord Melbourne will strictly observe your Majesty's injunction of secrecy.

With respect to the kind wishes about office which your Majesty is pleased to express, Lord
Melbourne will of course give to your Majesty's new Government, if formed under Lord John Russell,
all the support in his power, but as to taking office, he fears that he would find some difficulty.
He would be very unwilling to come in pledged to a total and immediate reform of the Corn Law,
and he also strongly feels the difficulty which has in fact compelled Sir Robert Peel to retire,
viz. the difficulty of carrying on the Government upon the principle of upholding and maintaining
the present law with respect to corn.

Lord Melbourne again thanks your Majesty for your great and considerate kindness.

[Pageheading: PEEL'S ATTITUDE]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 10th December 1845.

Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and influenced by no other motive
than the desire to contribute if possible to the relief of your Majesty from embarrassment,
and the protection of the public interests from injury, is induced to make this confidential
communication to your Majesty explanatory of his position and intentions with regard to the
great question which is now agitating the public mind.

Your Majesty can, if you think fit, make this communication known to the Minister who, as successor
to Sir Robert Peel, may be honoured by your Majesty's confidence.

On the first day of November last Sir Robert Peel advised his colleagues, on account of the
alarming accounts from Ireland and many districts of Great Britain as to the failure of the
potato crop from disease, and for the purpose of guarding against contingencies which in his
opinion were not improbable, humbly to recommend to your Majesty that the duties on the import
of foreign grain should be suspended for a limited period either by Order in Council, or by
Legislative Enactment, Parliament in either case being summoned without delay.

Sir Robert Peel foresaw that this suspension, fully justified by the tenor of the reports to
which he has referred, would compel, during the interval of suspension, the reconsideration
of the Corn Laws.

If the opinions of his colleagues had been in concurrence with his own, he was fully prepared
to take the responsibility of suspension, and of the necessary consequence of suspension, a
comprehensive review of the laws imposing restrictions on the import of foreign grain and other
articles of food, with a view to their gradual diminution and ultimate removal. He was disposed
to recommend that any new laws to be enacted should contain within themselves the principle
of gradual and ultimate removal.

Sir Robert Peel is prepared to support in a private capacity measures which may be in general
conformity with those which he advised as a Minister.

It would be unbecoming in Sir Robert Peel to make any reference to the details of such measures.

Your Majesty has been good enough to inform him that it is your intention to propose to Lord
John Russell to undertake the formation of a Government.

The principle on which Sir Robert Peel was prepared to recommend the reconsideration of the
laws affecting the import of the main articles of food, was in general accordance with that
referred to in the concluding paragraph of Lord John Russell's letter to the electors of the
City of London.[32]

Sir Robert Peel wished to accompany the removal of restrictions on the admission of such articles,
with relief to the land from such charges as are unduly onerous, and with such other provisions
as in the terms of Lord John Russell's letter "caution and even scrupulous forbearance may
suggest."

Sir Robert Peel will support measures founded on that general principle, and will exercise
any influence he may possess to promote their success.

Sir Robert Peel feels it to be his duty to add, that should your Majesty's servants, after
consideration of the heavy demands upon the Army of this country for colonial service, of our
relations with the United States, and of the bearing which steam navigation may have upon maritime
warfare, and the defence of the country, deem it advisable to propose an addition to the Army,
and increased naval and military estimates, Sir Robert Peel will support the proposal, will
do all that he can to prevent it from being considered as indicative of hostile or altered
feeling towards France, and will assume for the increase in question any degree of responsibility
present or retrospective which can fairly attach to him.

ROBERT PEEL.

    [Footnote 32: That paragraph urged that, with a revision
    of taxation to make the arrangement more equitable, and the
    safeguards suggested by caution and scrupulous forbearance,
    restrictions on the admission of the main articles of food and
    clothing used by the mass of the people should be removed.]

[Pageheading: LORD STANLEY RESIGNS]

Lord Stanley to Queen Victoria.

ST JAMES'S SQUARE, 11th December 1845.

... Lord Stanley humbly hopes that he may be permitted to avail himself of this opportunity
to express to your Majesty the deep regret and pain with which he has felt himself compelled
to dissent from the advice intended to have been tendered to your Majesty on the subject of
the Corn Laws. He begs to assure your Majesty that he would have shrunk from making no personal
sacrifice, short of that of principle, for the purpose of avoiding the inconvenience to your
Majesty and to the country inseparable from any change of Administration; but being unconvinced
of the necessity of a change of policy involving an abandonment of opinions formerly maintained,
and expectations held out to political supporters, he felt that the real interests of your
Majesty's service could not be promoted by the loss of personal character which the sacrifice
of his own convictions would necessarily have involved; and that he might far more usefully
serve your Majesty and the country out of office, than as the official advocate of a policy
which he could not sincerely approve. Lord Stanley begs to assure your Majesty that it will
be his earnest endeavour to allay, as far as may lie in his power, the excitement which he
cannot but foresee as the consequence of the contemplated change of policy; and he ventures
to indulge the hope that this long trespass upon your Majesty's much occupied time may find
a sufficient apology in the deep anxiety which he feels that his regret at being compelled
not only to retire from your Majesty's service, but also to take a step which he is aware may
have had some influence on the course finally adopted by Sir Robert Peel, may not be still
farther increased by the apprehension of having, in the performance of a most painful duty,
incurred your Majesty's displeasure. All which is humbly submitted by your Majesty's most dutiful
Servant and Subject,

STANLEY.

Queen Victoria to Lord Stanley.

OSBORNE, 12th December 1845.

The Queen, of course, much regrets that Lord Stanley could not agree in the opinions of Sir
Robert Peel upon a subject of such importance to the country. However, Lord Stanley may rest
assured that the Queen gives full credit to the disinterested motives which guided Lord Stanley's
conduct.

[Pageheading: THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF]

Queen Victoria to the Duke of Wellington.

OSBORNE, 12th December 1845.

The Queen has to inform the Duke of Wellington that, in consequence of Sir Robert Peel's having
declared to her his inability to carry on any longer the Government, she has sent for Lord
John Russell, who is not able at present to state whether he can form an Administration, and
is gone to Town in order to consult his friends. Whatever the result of his enquiries may be,
the Queen has a strong desire to see the Duke of Wellington remain at the head of her Army.
The Queen appeals to the Duke's so often proved loyalty and attachment to her person, in asking
him to give her this assurance. The Duke will thereby render the greatest service to the country
and to her own person.

[Pageheading: THE DUKE'S ADVICE]

The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria.

STRATHFIELDSAYE, 12th December 1845.

He humbly submits to your Majesty that the duties of the Commander-in-Chief of your Majesty's
Land Forces places him in constant confidential relations with all your Majesty's Ministers,
and particularly with the one filling the office of First Lord of the Treasury.

Under these circumstances he submits to your Majesty the counsel, that your Majesty would be
graciously pleased to consult the nobleman or gentleman who should be your Majesty's first
Minister, before any other step should be taken upon the subject. He might think that he had
reason to complain if he should find that it was arranged that the Duke of Wellington should
continue to fill the office of Commander-in-Chief, and such impression might have an influence
upon his future relations with that office.

Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington believes that Lord John Russell and all your Majesty's
former Ministers were aware, that during the whole period of the time during which Lord Hill
was the General Commanding-in-Chief your Majesty's Forces, the professional opinion and services
of Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington were at all times at the command and disposition of
your Majesty's servants, and were given whenever required.

He happened to be at that time in political opposition to the Government in the House of Parliament,
of which he was a member; but that circumstance made no difference.

It is impossible for the Duke of Wellington to form a political connection with Lord John Russell,
or to have any relation with the political course of the Government over which he should preside.

Such arrangement would not conciliate public confidence, be considered creditable to either
party, or be useful to the service of your Majesty.

Nor, indeed, would the performance of the duties of the Commander-in-Chief of the Army require
that such should exist; on the other hand, the performance of these duties would require that
the person filling the office should avoid to belong to, or to act in concert with, a political
party opposed to the Government.

Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington has considered it his duty to submit these considerations,
in order that your Majesty may be perfectly aware of the position in which he is about to place
himself, in case Lord John Russell should counsel your Majesty to command Field-Marshal the
Duke of Wellington to continue to hold the office of Commander-in-Chief of your Majesty's Land
Forces.

He at once submits to your Majesty the assurance that he will cheerfully devote his service
to your Majesty's command upon receiving the official intimation thereof, and that he will
as usual make every effort in his power to promote your Majesty's service.

All of which is humbly submitted to your Majesty by your Majesty's most dutiful Subject and
devoted Servant,

WELLINGTON.

[Pageheading: KING LOUIS PHILIPPE]

The King of the French to Queen Victoria.

ST CLOUD, le 16 Décembre 1845.

MADAME MA TRÈS CHÈRE S[OE]UR,--J'ai à remercier votre Majesté de l'excellente lettre que ma
bonne Clém m'a remise de sa part. Elle m'a été droit au c[oe]ur, et je ne saurais exprimer
à quel point j'ai été touché de vos bons voeux pour ma famille, et de tout ce que vous me témoignez
sur l'accroissement qu'il a plû à la Providence de lui donner dans mes onze petits fils.

Je me disposais à dire à votre Majesté que, quoiqu'avec un bien vif regret, je comprenais parfaitement
les motifs qui vous portaient à remettre à une autre année, cette visite si vivement désirée,
et que j'espérais toujours trouver une compensation à cette privation, en allant de nouveau
Lui offrir en Angleterre, l'hommage de tous les sentiments que je Lui porte, et qui m'attachent
si profondément à Elle, ainsi qu'au Prince son Epoux, lorsque j'ai reçu la nouvelle de la démission
de Sir Robert Peel, de Lord Aberdeen et de tous leurs Collégues. Je me flattais que ces Ministres
qui s'étaient toujours si bien entendus avec les miens pour établir entre nos deux Gouvernements,
cette heureuse entente cordiale qui est la base du repos du monde et de la prospérité de nos
pays, continueraient encore longtemps à l'entretenir, et à la consolider de plus en plus. Cet
espoir est déçu!![33] Il faut s'y résigner; mais je suis empressé d'assurer votre Majesté,
que quelque soit son nouveau Ministère, celui qui m'entoure aujourd'hui, et que je désire,
et que j'espère conserver longtemps, n'omettra aucun effort pour cultiver et maintenir cet
heureux accord qu'il est si évidemment dans notre intérêt commun de conserver intact.

Dans de telles circonstances, il me devient doublement précieux d'être uni à votre Majesté
et au Prince Albert par tant de liens, et qu'il se soit formé entre nous cet attachement mutuel,
cette affection et cette confiance, qui sont au dessus et indépendants de toute considération
politique; mais qui pourront toujours plus ou moins exercer une influence salutaire sur l'action
et la marche de nos deux Gouvernements. Aussi, je le dis à votre Majesté et à son Epoux avec
un entier abandon, j'ai besoin de compter sur cette assistance occasionnelle, et j'y compte
entièrement en vous demandant d'avoir la même confiance de mon côté, et en vous répétant que
cette confiance ne sera pas plus déçue dans l'avenir, qu'elle ne l'a été dans le passé.

Votre Majesté me permettra d'offrir ici au Prince Albert l'expression de ma vive et sincère amitié.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 16th December 1845.

The Queen has just received Lord John Russell's letter of this day's date,[34] and considering
that it is of great importance that no time should be lost, has immediately forwarded it to
Sir Robert Peel.

The Queen fully understands the motives which guide Lord John in using every effort to ensure
the success of the great measure which is impending before he undertakes to form a Government.

The Queen sees from Lord John's second letter that he has taken a copy of Sir R. Peel's letter
of the 15th to her. As she does not feel to have been authorised to allow this, the Queen hopes
that in case Sir Robert should have an objection to it Lord John will not retain the copy.

    [Footnote 34: It is printed in the Annual Register, 1846, p.
    17. Lord John considered the temporary suspension or repeal
    of duties, with the prospect of their re-imposition, open to
    grave objections.]

[Pageheading: INSUPERABLE DIFFICULTIES]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 18th December 1845.

Lord John Russell returned at five this evening, and informed the Queen that after considerable
discussion, and after a full consideration of his position, he will undertake to form a Government.

As at present arranged, the Council is to be on Monday; the Queen much wishing to have a parting
interview with Sir R. Peel, however painful it will be to her, wishes Sir Robert Peel to inform
her when he thinks it best to come down here.[35]

    [Footnote 35: Lord John Russell, however, found insuperable
    difficulties in forming the Cabinet; and, to quote Disraeli,
    "handed back with courtesy the poisoned chalice to Sir
    Robert."]

[Pageheading: GREY AND PALMERSTON]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 20th December 1845.

(12 o'clock.)

We just saw Lord John Russell, who came in order to explain why he had to give up the task
of forming a Government. He had written to all his former colleagues to join him in his attempt,
amongst others to Lord Grey, who answered, "that he could only belong to a Government which
pledged itself to the principle of absolute free trade and abolition of all protection; that
he had his own views upon the sugar question (as to which he advocated the admission of slave
labour) and upon the Irish question (as to which his principle was to establish entire religious
equality); that he hoped that in the formation of a new Government no personal considerations
should stand in the way of a full attention to public Duty."

Lord John replied that he advocated free trade, but as the immediate question before them was
the Corn Laws, he thought it wiser not to complicate this by other declarations which would
produce a good deal of animosity; that the sugar question and Ireland might be discussed in
Cabinet when circumstances required it; that he agreed entirely in the last sentence.

After this Lord Grey declared himself quite satisfied. Lord John considered now with his colleagues
the peculiar measure to be proposed, and Mr Baring thought he could arrange a financial scheme
which would satisfy Lord Lansdowne's demands for relief to the landed interest. They all felt
it their duty to answer the Queen's call upon them, though they very much disliked taking office
under such peculiar difficulties. Now Lord John undertook to apportion the different offices.
He saw Lord Palmerston, and told him that the Queen had some apprehension that his return to
the Foreign Office might cause great alarm in other countries, and particularly in France,
and that this feeling was still more strongly manifested in the city; whether under these circumstances
he would prefer some other office--for instance, the Colonies? Lord Palmerston declared that
he was not at all anxious for office, and should much regret that his accession should in any
way embarrass Lord John; that he was quite prepared to support him out of office, but that
his taking another department than his former one would be a public recognition of the most
unjust accusations that had been brought against him; that he had evinced throughout a long
official life his disposition for peace, and only in one instance broke with France;[36] that
that matter was gone by, and that nobody had stronger conviction of the necessity to keep in
amity with that Power than himself. Upon this Lord John said that he could not form a Government
without him, and showed himself quite satisfied with Lord Palmerston's declaration.

    [Footnote 36: In reference to affairs in Syria in 1840.]

Suddenly Lord Grey, who had heard of this, cried out: "This was an infringement of their compact";
that no personal consideration should interfere with the discharge of public duty, and that
he must decline entering the Government, as he considered Lord Palmerston's return to the Foreign
Office as fraught with danger to the peace of Europe. Lord John could not, under these circumstances,
form a Government. He read to us a long letter from Lord Grey, written with the intention that
it should be seen by the Queen, in which Lord Grey enters more fully into his motives, and
finishes by saying that therefore he was not answerable for the failure to form an Administration.[37]

    [Footnote 37: Lord Grey's attitude was condemned by Macaulay
    in a letter to a Mr Macfarlan, who unwisely communicated it to
    the Press.]

Lord John gave the Queen a written statement[38] of the causes which induced him to relinquish
the Government, and of the position he means to assume in Parliament. (He is most anxious that
Sir R. Peel should re-enter and successfully carry his measures.)

    [Footnote 38: Printed in Annual Register, 1846, p. 20.]

The arrangements Lord John had contemplated have been--

  Lord PALMERSTON,      Foreign Secretary.
  Lord GREY,            Colonial Secretary.
  Sir GEORGE GREY,      Home Secretary.

(Sir George was anxious later to retire from Parliament, and willing to go as Governor-General
to Canada.)

  Mr BARING,            Chancellor of the Exchequer.
  Lord CLARENDON,       President of the Board of Trade.

(The Vice-Presidency was to have been offered to his brother, Mr Villiers, but finally, by
his advice, to Mr Cobden!! (Lord Grey wanted Mr Cobden to be in the Cabinet!!!) This Lord John
thought quite out of the question.)

  Lord LANSDOWNE,       President of the Council.

(4 o'clock P.M.)

We saw Sir Robert Peel, who had been apprised by Sir James Graham (to whom Lord John Russell
had written) of what had passed. He was much affected, and expressed his concern at the failure
of Lord John to form a Government, seemed hurt at Lord John's not having shown more confidence
in the integrity of his (Sir Robert Peel's) motives. He would have supported Lord John in any
measure which he should have thought fit to introduce, and many would have followed his example.
He blamed the want of deference shown to the Queen, by not answering her call with more readiness;
he said it was quite new and unconstitutional for a man to take a week before he undertook
to form a Government, and to pass that time in discussion with other people, to whom the Sovereign
had not yet committed the task; and he had been certain it would end so, when so many people
were consulted. He in 1834 had been called from Italy, had travelled with all haste and had
gone straight to the King, had told him that he had seen nobody, consulted nobody, but immediately
kissed the King's hand as his Minister.

He was now prepared to stand by the Queen, all other considerations he had thrown aside, he
would undertake to deal with the difficulties, and should have to go down alone to the House
of Commons. He had written to his colleagues that he would serve the Queen if she called upon
him to do so, that he expected them to meet him at nine o'clock that evening, and that he would
tell them what he meant to do. Those who would not go with him, he would dismiss at once. He
did not wish to avail himself of any undue advantage, and therefore would not advise an Order
in Council, but go at once to Parliament, laying his measure before it: "Reject it, if you
please; there it is!"

He called the crisis an alarming one, which determination alone could overcome.

We showed him Lord John Russell's statement, with which he declared himself very much satisfied.
He advised the Queen to write a letter to Lord John, announcing to him Sir Robert's consent
to go on with the Government, and wrote a draft of it, which follows here.

He had heard strange instances of disagreement amongst the men whom Lord John had assembled
in town.

Sir Robert seemed throughout much moved, and said with much warmth: "There is no sacrifice
that I will not make for your Majesty, except that of my honour."

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 20th December 1845.

Sir Robert Peel has just been here. He expressed great regret that Lord John Russell had felt
it necessary to decline the formation of a Government.

He said he should have acted towards Lord John Russell with the most scrupulous good faith,
and that he should have done everything in his power to give Lord John support.

He thinks many would have been induced to follow his example.

Sir Robert Peel did not hesitate a moment in withdrawing his offer of resignation. He said
he felt it his duty at once to resume his office, though he is deeply sensible of the difficulties
with which he has to contend.

[Pageheading: PEEL CORDIALLY SUPPORTED]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

The Cabinet met at Sir Robert Peel's house in Downing Street at half-past nine.

Sir Robert Peel informed them that he had not summoned them for the purpose of deliberating
on what was to be done, but for the purpose of announcing to them that he was your Majesty's
Minister, and whether supported or not, was firmly resolved to meet Parliament as your Majesty's
Minister, and to propose such measures as the public exigencies required.

Failure or success must depend upon their decision, but nothing could shake Sir Robert Peel's
determination to meet Parliament and to advise the Speech from the Throne.

There was a dead silence, at length interrupted by Lord Stanley's declaring that he must persevere
in resigning, that he thought the Corn Law ought to be adhered to, and might have been maintained.

The Duke of Wellington said he thought the Corn Law was a subordinate consideration. He was
delighted when he received Sir Robert Peel's letter that day, announcing to the Duke that his
mind was made up to place his services at your Majesty's disposal.

The Duke of Buccleuch behaved admirably--was much agitated--thought new circumstances had arisen--would
not then decide on resigning.

Sir Robert Peel has received this morning the enclosed note from the Duke.[39]

He has written a reply very strongly to the Duke, stating that the present question is not
one of Corn Law, but whether your Majesty's former servants or Lord Grey and Mr Cobden shall
constitute your Majesty's Government. Sir Robert Peel defied the wit of man to suggest now
another alternative to your Majesty.

Lord Aberdeen will see the Duke to-day.

All the other members of the Government cordially approved of Sir Robert Peel's determination
not to abandon your Majesty's service.

There was no question about details, but if there is any, it shall not alter Sir Robert Peel's
course.

    [Footnote 39: See next letter.]

The Duke of Buccleuch to Sir Robert Peel.

MONTAGU HOUSE, 20th December 1845.

MY DEAR SIR ROBERT,--That which has occurred this evening, and that which you have communicated
to us, the very critical state in which the country now is, and above all the duty which I
owe to her Majesty under the present circumstances, has made a most strong impression upon
my mind. At the risk, therefore, of imputation of vacillation or of any other motive by others,
may I ask of you to give me a few hours' time for further reflection, before finally deciding
upon the course which I may feel it to be my duty to pursue? Believe me, my dear Sir Robert,
yours most sincerely,

BUCCLEUCH.

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

    [Footnote 40: Mr Gladstone, by accepting office, vacated the
    seat at Newark which he had held through the influence of the
    Protectionist Duke of Newcastle. He did not seek re-election,
    and though a Secretary of State, remained without a seat in
    Parliament.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S ESTIMATE OF PEEL]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 23rd December 1845.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your two kind letters of the 17th and 19th, which gave me
much pleasure. I never have seen him so excited or so determined, and such a good cause must
succeed. We have indeed had an escape, for though Lord John's own notions were very good and
moderate, he let himself be entirely twisted and twirled about by his violent friends, and
all the moderate ones were crushed....

VICTORIA R.

Sir Robert Peel to the Prince Albert.

WHITEHALL, 23rd December 1845.

SIR,--I think Her Majesty and your Royal Highness will have been pleased with the progress
I have made in execution of the great trust again committed to me by Her Majesty.

It will be of great importance to conciliate Lord Stanley's support out of office, to induce
him to discourage hostile combinations.

I would humbly recommend Her Majesty, when Her Majesty sees Lord Stanley to-day, to receive
him with her usual kindness, to say that I had done full justice in my reports to Her Majesty
to the motives by which he had been actuated, and to the openness and frankness of his conduct,
to regret greatly the loss of his services, but to hope that he might be still enabled not
to oppose and even to promote the accomplishment of what cannot now be safely resisted. I have
the honour to be, etc., etc., etc.,

ROBERT PEEL.

[Pageheading: THE NEW ARRANGEMENTS]

[Pageheading: THE CORN LAWS]

[Pageheading: THE UNEMPLOYED]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 25th December 1845.

We had a Council yesterday, at which Parliament was prorogued to the 22nd of January, then
to meet for the despatch of business. Lord Stanley had an audience of the Queen before, and
delivered up the Seals of his office. He was much agitated, and had told Sir Robert that he
dreaded this interview very much. The Queen thanked him for his services, and begged he would
do his best out of office to smooth down the difficulties her Government would have to contend
with. At the Council Lord Dalhousie took his seat, and Mr Gladstone received the Colonial Seals.
The Queen saw the Duke of Buccleuch and thanked him for the devotion he had shown her during
these trying circumstances; the same to the Duke of Wellington, who is in excellent spirits.
On my saying, "You have such an influence over the House of Lords, that you will be able to
keep them straight," he answered: "I'll do anything; I am now beginning to write to them and
to convince them singly of what their duty is."

We saw afterwards Sir Robert Peel, who stayed more than three hours. He is in the highest spirits
at having got Mr Gladstone and kept the Duke of Buccleuch; he proposed that the Duke should
be made President, and Lord Haddington Privy Seal in his stead. (Lord Haddington had behaved
very well, had given up his place to Sir Robert, and told him he should do with him just as
he liked--leave him out of the Cabinet, shift him to another place, or leave him at the Admiralty,
as would suit him best.)

Sir Robert hinted to Lord Ripon that Lord Haddington had behaved so well, but got no more out
of him, but "that he would almost have done the same." Sir Robert proposes to see Lord Ellenborough
in order to offer him the Admiralty, received the Queen's sanction likewise to Lord St Germans
(the Postmaster-General) being put into the Cabinet. I said: "With your Government that has
no inconvenience, and even if you had a hundred members in the Cabinet, as you don't tell them
but what is absolutely necessary, and follow your own course." He said in reply, that he should
be very sorry if he had to have told his Cabinet that he meant to send for Lord Ellenborough.
We could not help contrasting this conduct with the subjection Lord John has shown to his people.
It is to his own talent and firmness that Sir Robert will owe his success, which cannot fail.
He said he had been determined not to go to a general election with the fetters the last election
had imposed upon him, and he had meant at the end of the next Session to call the whole Conservative
Party together and to declare this to them, that he would not meet another Parliament pledged
to the maintenance of the Corn Laws, which could be maintained no longer, and that he would
make a public declaration to this effect before another general election came on. This had
been defeated by events coming too suddenly upon him, and he had no alternative but to deal
with the Corn Laws before a national calamity would force it on. The league had made immense
progress, and had enormous means at their disposal. If he had resigned in November, Lord Stanley
and the Protectionists would have been prepared to form a Government, and a Revolution might
have been the consequence of it. Now they felt that it was too late.

Sir Robert has an immense scheme in view; he thinks he shall be able to remove the contest
entirely from the dangerous ground upon which it has got--that of a war between the manufacturers,
the hungry and the poor against the landed proprietors, the aristocracy, which can only end
in the ruin of the latter; he will not bring forward a measure upon the Corn Laws, but a much
more comprehensive one. He will deal with the whole commercial system of the country. He will
adopt the principle of the League, that of removing all protection and abolishing all monopoly,
but not in favour of one class and as a triumph over another, but to the benefit of the nation,
farmers as well as manufacturers. He would begin with cotton, and take in all the necessaries
of life and corn amongst them. The experiments he had made in 1842 and 1845 with boldness but
with caution had borne out the correctness of the principle: the wool duty was taken off, and
wool sold higher than ever before; foreign cattle were let in, and the cattle of England stood
better in the market than ever. He would not ask for compensation to the land, but wherever
he could give it, and at the same time promote the social development, there he would do it,
but on that ground. For instance, one of the greatest benefits to the country would be the
establishment of a rural police on the same principle as the metropolitan police. By taking
this on the Consolidated Fund, the landowners would be immensely relieved in all those counties
which kept a police. One of the heaviest charges on the land was the present administration
of law and the carrying on of prosecutions. Sir Robert could fancy this to be very much improved
by the appointment of a public prosecutor by the State, which would give the State a power
to prevent vexatious, illegal, and immoral prosecutions, and reduce the expenses in an extraordinary
degree. Part of the maintenance of the poor, according to the Poor Law, might be undertaken
by the State. A great calamity must be foreseen, when the innumerable railroads now in progress
shall have been terminated, which will be the case in a few years. This will throw an enormous
labouring population suddenly out of employment. There might be a law passed which would provide
employment for them, and improve the agriculture and production of the country, by enabling
the State to advance money to the great proprietors for the improvements of their estates,
which they could not obtain otherwise without charging their estates beyond what they already
have to bear.

Sir Robert means to go with Mr Gladstone into all these details.

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON'S JUSTIFICATION]

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON'S POLICY]

Viscount Palmerston to Viscount Melbourne.[41]

BOWOOD, 26th December 1845.

MY DEAR MELBOURNE,--I return you with many thanks George Anson's letter, which was enclosed
in yours of the 23rd, which I received just as we were setting off for this place. Pray, when
next you write to George Anson, say how gratefully I appreciate the kind consideration on the
part of H.R.H. Prince Albert, which suggested George Anson's communication. But I can assure
you that although John Russell, in his Audience of the Queen, may inadvertently have overstated
the terms in which he had mentioned to me what Her Majesty had said to him about my return
to the Foreign Office, yet in his conversations with me upon that subject he never said anything
more than is contained in George Anson's letter to you; and I am sure you will think that under
all the circumstances of the case he could hardly have avoided telling me thus much, and making
me aware of the impression which seemed to exist upon the Queen's mind as to the way in which
other persons might view my return to the Foreign Office.

With regard to Her Majesty's own sentiments, I have always been convinced that Her Majesty
knows me too well to believe for an instant that I do not attach the greatest importance to
the maintenance, not merely of peace with all foreign countries, but of the most friendly relations
with those leading Powers and States of the world with which serious differences would be attended
with the most inconvenience. As to Peace, I succeeded, as the organ of Lord Grey's Government
and of yours, in preserving it unbroken during ten years[42] of great and extraordinary difficulty;
and, if now and then it unavoidably happened during that period of time, that in pursuing the
course of policy which seemed the best for British interests, we thwarted the views of this
or that Foreign Power, and rendered them for the moment less friendly, I think I could prove
that in every case the object which we were pursuing was of sufficient importance to make it
worth our while to submit to such temporary inconvenience. There never was indeed, during those
ten years, any real danger of war except on three occasions; and on each of those occasions
the course pursued by the British Government prevented war. The first occasion was just after
the accession of the King of the French, when Austria, Russia, and Prussia were disposed and
preparing to attack France, and when the attitude assumed by the British Government prevented
a rupture. The second was when England and France united by a Convention to wrest the Citadel
of Antwerp from the Dutch, and to deliver it over to the King of the Belgians.[43] If England
had not then joined with France, Antwerp would have remained with the Dutch, or the attempt
to take it would have led to a war in Europe. The third occasion was when Mehemet Ali's army
occupied Syria, and when he was constantly threatening to declare himself independent and to
march on Constantinople; while Russia, on the one hand, asserted that if he did so she would
occupy Constantinople, and on the other hand, France announced that if Russia did so, she,
France, would force the Dardanelles. The Treaty of July 1840, proposed and brought about by
the British Government, and the operations in execution of that Treaty, put an end to that
danger; and, notwithstanding what has often been said to the contrary, the real danger of war
arising out of the affairs of Syria was put an end to, and not created by the Treaty of 1840.

I am well aware, however, that some persons both at home and abroad have imbibed the notion
that I am more indifferent than I ought to be as to running the risk of war. That impression
abroad is founded upon an entire mistake, but is by some sincerely felt, and being sincere,
would soon yield to the evidence of contradictory facts. At home that impression has been industriously
propagated to a limited extent, partly by the legitimate attacks of political opponents, and
partly by a little cabal within our own ranks. These parties wanted to attack me, and were
obliged to accuse me of something. They could not charge me with failure, because we had succeeded
in all our undertakings, whether in Portugal, Spain, Belgium, Syria, China, or elsewhere; they
could not charge me with having involved the country in war, because, in fact, we had maintained
peace; and the only thing that was left for them to say was that my policy had a tendency to
produce war, and I suppose they would argue that it was quite wrong and against all rule that
it did not do so.

But notwithstanding what may have been said on this matter, the transaction which has by some
been the most criticised in this respect, namely, the Treaty of 1840, and the operations connected
with it, were entirely approved by the leaders of the then Opposition, who, so far from feeling
any disposition to favour me, had always made a determined run at the Foreign Policy of the
Whig Government. The Duke of Wellington, at the opening of the Session of 1841, said in the
House of Lords that he entirely approved our policy in that transaction, and could not find
that any fault had been committed by us in working it out; and I happen to know that Sir Robert
Peel expressed to the representative of one of the German Powers, parties to the Alliance,
his entire approval of our course, while Lord Aberdeen said to one of them, that the course
I had taken in that affair made him forgive me many things of former years, which he had thought
he never should have forgiven.

I am quite ashamed of the length to which this letter has grown, and shall only add, with reference
to our relations with France, that I had some very friendly interviews with Thiers, who was
my chief antagonist in 1840, and that although we did not enter into any conspiracy against
Guizot and Peel, as the newspapers pretended, we parted on very good terms, and he promised
to introduce me to all his friends whenever I should go to Paris, saying that of course Guizot
would do me the same good office with his supporters. My dear Melbourne, yours affectionately,

PALMERSTON.

    [Footnote 41: Submitted to the Queen by Lord Melbourne.]

    [Footnote 42: 1830-1834, and 1835-1841.]

    [Footnote 43: The English and French came in 1832 to the
    assistance of the Belgians, who some time before had entered
    Antwerp, but failed to take the Citadel.]

[Pageheading: THE MINISTRY REINSTATED]

Queen Victoria to the King of the French.

CH. DE W., le 30 Décembre 1845.

SIRE ET MON TRÈS CHER FRÈRE,--Votre Majesté me pardonnera si je viens seulement maintenant
vous remercier de tout mon c[oe]ur de votre lettre si bonne et si aimable du 16, mais vous
savez combien j'étais occupée pendant ces dernières 3 semaines. La Crise est passée et j'ai
tout lieu de croire que le Gouvernement de Sir R. Peel va s'affermir de plus en plus, ce que
je ne puis que désirer pour le bien-être du pays. Je dois cependant dire à votre Majesté que
si le Ministère eût changé, j'ai la certitude que le nouveau se serait empressé de maintenir,
comme nous le désirons si vivement, cette entente cordiale si heureusement établie entre nos
deux Gouvernements.

Permettez-moi, Sire, de vous offrir au nom d'Albert et au mien nos félicitations les plus sincères
à l'occasion de la nouvelle Année, dans lequel vous nous donnez le doux espoir de vous revoir.
Nous avons lu avec beaucoup d'intérêt le Speech de V.M., dans lequel vous parlez si aimablement
du "friendly call" à Eu et des coopérations des 2 pays dans différentes parties du monde, et
particulièrement pour l'Abolition de la Traite des noirs.

Ayez la grâce, Sire, de déposer nos hommages et nos félicitations aux pieds de la Reine et
de votre S[oe]ur. Agréez encore une fois, les expressions d'amitié et d'attachement sincère
avec lesquelles je suis, Sire et mon bien cher Frère, de votre Majesté, la bien bonne S[oe]ur
et fidèle Amie,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 30th December 1845.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your kind letter of the 27th, by which I see how glad you
are at our good Peel being again--and I sincerely and confidently hope for many years--my Minister.
I have heard many instances of the confidence the country and all parties have in Peel; for
instance, he was immensely cheered at Birmingham--a most Radical place; and Joseph Hume expressed
great distress when Peel resigned, and the greatest contempt for Lord John Russell. The Members
of the Government have behaved extremely well and with much disinterestedness. The Government
has secured the services of Mr Gladstone and Lord Ellenborough,[44] who will be of great use.
Lord E. is become very quiet, and is a very good speaker.

We had a very happy Christmas. This weather is extremely unwholesome. Now, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 44: Lord Ellenborough was one of the few
    Conservative statesmen of the day who, after remaining
    faithful to Sir Robert Peel till the middle of 1846,
    subsequently threw in his fortunes with Lord Derby and Mr
    Disraeli. He was President of the Board of Control with those
    Ministers in 1858 for the fourth time.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XV

The closing days of the year 1845 had been marked by startling political events, and Lord John
Russell's failure to form a Government, and Sir Robert Peel's resumption of office, with Mr
Gladstone substituted for Lord Stanley, were now followed by the Ministerial measure for the
Repeal of the Corn Laws. Embarrassed as he now was by the attacks of his old supporters, led
by Bentinck and Disraeli, Peel was supported whole-heartedly but in a strictly constitutional
manner by the Queen and the Prince. Amid bitter taunts, the Premier piloted the measure through
Parliament, but on the night that it finally passed the Lords he was defeated on an Irish Coercion
Bill by a factious combination in the Commons between the Whigs and Protectionists, and resigned.
Lord John Russell on this occasion was able to form an administration, though he failed in
his attempt to include in it some important members of the outgoing Government.

Thus, owing to the Irish famine, the Tory party which had come into power in 1841 with a majority
of ninety to support the Corn Laws, was shattered; after Peel's defeat it became clear that
no common action could take place between his supporters in the struggle of 1846 and men like
Bentinck and Disraeli, who now became leaders of the Protectionist party. For the remainder
of the year Peel was on the whole friendly to the Russell Government, his chief care being
to maintain them in office as against the Protectionists.

In India the British army was successful in its operations against the Sikhs, Sir Harry Smith
defeating them at Aliwal, and Sir Hugh Gough at Sobraon. Our troops crossed the Sutlej, and
terms of peace were agreed on between Sir Henry Hardinge (who became a Viscount) and the Sirdars
from Lahore, peace being signed on 8th March.

On the continent of Europe the most important events took place in the Peninsula. The selection
of husbands for the Queen of Spain and her sister, which had so long been considered an international
question, came at last to a crisis; the policy of Great Britain had been to leave the matter
to the Spanish people, except in so far as might be necessary to check the undue ambition of
Louis Philippe; and neither the Queen, Prince Albert, Peel, nor Aberdeen had in any way supported
the candidature of Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg.

It was common ground that no son of Louis Philippe should marry the Queen, but both that monarch
and Guizot had further solemnly engaged at the Château d'Eu that no son should marry even the
Infanta until the Queen was married and had children. The return of Palmerston to the Foreign
Office, and his mention of Prince Leopold in a Foreign Office despatch as one of the candidates,
gave the King and his Minister the pretext they required for repudiating their solemn undertaking.
In defiance of good faith the engagements were simultaneously announced of the Queen to her
cousin, Don Francisco de Asis, and of the Infanta to the Duc de Montpensier, Don Francisco
being a man of unattractive, even disagreeable qualities, and feeble in physique. By this unscrupulous
proceeding Queen Victoria and the English nation were profoundly shocked.

At the same time Queen Maria found some difficulty in maintaining her position in Portugal.
She dismissed in a somewhat high-handed manner her Minister the Duc de Palmella, and had to
bear the brunt of an insurrection for several months: at the close of the year her arms were
victorious at the lines of Torres Vedras, but the Civil War was not entirely brought to an end.

In February a Polish insurrection broke out in Silesia, and the Austrian troops were driven
from Cracow; the rising was suppressed by Austria, Russia, and Prussia, who had been constituted
the "Protecting Powers" of Cracow by the Treaty of Vienna. This unsuccessful attempt was seized
upon as a pretext for destroying the separate nationality of Cracow, which was forthwith annexed
to Austria. This unjustifiable act only became possible in consequence of the entente between
England and France (equally parties to the Treaty of Vienna) having been terminated by the
affair of the Spanish marriages; their formal but separate protests were disregarded.

There remains to be mentioned the dispute between Great Britain and the United States as to
the Oregon boundary, which had assumed so ominous a phase in 1845. Lord Aberdeen's last official
act was to announce in the Lords that a Convention, proposed by himself for adjusting the question,
had been accepted by the American President.

CHAPTER XV

1846

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 23rd January 1846.

The Queen must compliment Sir Robert Peel on his beautiful and indeed unanswerable speech of
last night, which we have been reading with the greatest attention.[1] The concluding part
we also greatly admire. Sir R. Peel has made a very strong case. Surely the impression which
it has made must have been a good one. Lord John's explanation is a fair one;[2] the Queen
has not a doubt that he will support Sir Robert Peel.

He has indeed pledged himself to it. He does not give a very satisfactory explanation of the
causes of his failure, but perhaps he could not do so without exposing Lord Palmerston.

What does Sir Robert think of the temper of the House of Commons, and of the debate in the
House of Lords? The debates not being adjourned is a good thing. The crowd was immense out-of-doors
yesterday, and we were never better received.

    [Footnote 1: The Queen had opened Parliament in person; the
    Prime Minister took the unusual course of speaking immediately
    after the seconder of the Address, and in his peroration,
    after laying stress on the responsibilities he was incurring,
    proceeded: "I do not desire to be Minister of England; but
    while I am Minister of England I will hold office by no
    servile tenure; I will hold office unshackled by any other
    obligation than that of consulting the public interests and
    providing for the public safety."]

    [Footnote 2: He explained that the attitude of Lord Grey made
    the difficulties attending the formation of a Whig Ministry
    insuperable.]

[Pageheading: EXTENSION OF INDIAN FRONTIER]

Sir Henry Hardinge to Queen Victoria.[3]

CAMP, LULLIANEE, 24 miles from LAHORE, 18th February 1846.

The territory which it is proposed should be ceded in perpetuity to your Majesty is a fine
district between the Rivers Sutlej and Beas, throwing our frontier forward, within 30 miles
of Amritsar, so as to have 50 miles of British territory in front of Loodiana, which, relatively
with Ferozepore, is so weak, that it appeared desirable to the Governor-General to improve
our frontier on its weakest side, to curb the Sikhs by an easy approach towards Amritsar across
the Beas River instead of the Sutlej--to round off our hill possessions near Simla--to weaken
the Sikh State which has proved itself to be too strong--and to show to all Asia that although
the British Government has not deemed it expedient to annex this immense country of the Punjab,
making the Indus the British boundary, it has punished the treachery and violence of the Sikh
nation, and exhibited its powers in a manner which cannot be misunderstood. For the same political
and military reason, the Governor-General hopes to be able before the negotiations are closed
to make arrangements by which Cashmere may be added to the possessions of Gholab Singh, declaring
the Rajpoot Hill States with Cashmere independent of the Sikhs of the Plains. The Sikhs declare
their inability to pay the indemnity of one million and a half, and will probably offer Cashmere
as an equivalent. In this case, if Gholab Singh pays the money demanded for the expenses of
the war, the district of Cashmere will be ceded by the British to him, and the Rajah become
one of the Princes of Hindostan.

There are difficulties in the way of this arrangement, but considering the military power which
the Sikh nation has exhibited of bringing into the field 80,000 men and 300 pieces of field
artillery, it appears to the Governor-General most politic to diminish the means of this warlike
people to repeat a similar aggression. The nation is in fact a dangerous military Republic
on our weakest frontier. If the British Army had been defeated, the Sikhs, through the Protected
States, which would have risen in their favour in case of a reverse, would have captured Delhi,
and a people having 50,000 regular troops and 300 pieces of field artillery in a standing permanent
camp within 50 miles of Ferozepore, is a state of things that cannot be tolerated for the future....

The energy and intrepidity displayed by your Majesty's Commander-in-Chief, Sir Hugh Gough,
his readiness to carry on the service in cordial co-operation with the Governor-General, and
the marked bravery and invincibility of your Majesty's English troops, have overcome many serious
obstacles, and the precautions taken have been such that no disaster or failure, however trifling,
has attended the arduous efforts of your Majesty's Arms.

    [Footnote 3: The Sikhs were defeated at Sobraon on 10th
    February by the British troops under Sir Hugh Gough,
    reinforced by Sir Harry Smith, fresh from his victory at
    Aliwal. See p. 71.]

[Pageheading: PEEL'S ANXIETIES]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 3rd March 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I hasten to thank you for a most dear and kind letter of the 28th, which
I received this morning. You know how I love and esteem my dearest Louise; she is the dearest
friend, after my beloved Albert, I have.

I wish you could be here, and hope you will come here for a few days during your stay, to see
the innumerable alterations and improvements which have taken place. My dearest Albert is so
happy here, out all day planting, directing, etc., and it is so good for him. It is a relief
to be away from all the bitterness which people create for themselves in London. Peel has a
very anxious and a very peculiar position, and it is the force of circumstances and the great
energy he alone possesses which will carry him through the Session. He certainly acts a most
disinterested part, for did he not feel (as every one who is fully acquainted with the real
state of the country must feel) that the line he pursues is the only right and sound one for
the welfare of this country, he never would have exposed himself to all the annoyance and pain
of being attacked by his friends. He was, however, determined to have done this before the
next general election, but the alarming state of distress in Ireland forced him to do it now.
I must, however, leave him to explain to you fully himself the peculiar circumstances of the
present very irregular state of affairs. His majority was not a certain one last year, for
on Maynooth, upwards of a hundred of his followers voted against him.

The state of affairs in India is very serious. I am glad you do justice to the bravery of our
good people.

[Pageheading: DEATH OF SIR ROBERT SALE]

Queen Victoria to Sir Henry Hardinge.

OSBORNE, 4th March 1846.

The Queen is anxious to seize the first opportunity of expressing to Sir Henry Hardinge, her
admiration of his conduct on the last most trying occasion, and of the courage and gallantry
of the officers and men who had so severe a contest to endure.[4] Their conduct has been in
every way worthy of the British name, and both the Prince and Queen are deeply impressed with
it. The severe loss we have sustained in so many brave officers and men is very painful, and
must alloy the satisfaction every one feels at the brilliant successes of our Arms. Most deeply
do we lament the death of Sir Robert Sale, Sir John M'Caskill,[5] and Major Broadfoot,[6] and
most deeply do we sympathise with that high-minded woman, Lady Sale, who has had the misfortune
to lose her husband less than three years after she was released from captivity and restored
to him.

We are truly rejoiced to hear that Sir H. Hardinge's health has not suffered, and that he and
his brave son have been so mercifully preserved. The Queen will look forward with great anxiety
to the next news from India.

    [Footnote 4: At Moodkee on 18th December, and Ferozeshah on
    21st and 22nd December.]

    [Footnote 5: Who had commanded a brigade under Pollock in the
    second Afghan campaign.]

    [Footnote 6: Major George Broadfoot, C.B., Political Agent on
    the north-western frontier.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE'S MEMORANDUM]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 1st April 1846.

I saw this day Sir R. Peel, and showed him a memorandum, which I had drawn up respecting our
conversation of the 30th.

It filled six sheets, and contained, as minutely as I could render it, the whole of the arguments
we had gone through. Sir Robert read it through and over again, and, after a long pause, said:
"I was not aware when I spoke to your Royal Highness that my words would be taken down, and
don't acknowledge that this is a fair representation of my opinion." He was visibly uneasy,
and added, if he knew that what he said should be committed to paper, he would speak differently,
and give his opinion with all the circumspection and reserve which a Minister ought to employ
when he gave responsible advice; but he had in this instance spoken quite unreservedly, like
an advocate defending a point in debate, and then he had taken another and tried to carry this
as far as it would go, in order to give me an opportunity of judging of the different bearings
of the question. He did so often in the Cabinet, when they discussed important questions, and
was often asked: "Well, then, you are quite against this measure?" "Not at all, but I want
that the counter argument should be gone into to the fullest extent, in order that the Cabinet
should not take a one-sided view."

He viewed the existence of such a paper with much uneasiness, as it might appear as if he had
left this before going out of office in order to prepossess the Queen against the measures,
which her future Minister might propose to her, and so lay secretly the foundation of his fall.
The existence of such a paper might cause great embarrassment to the Queen; if she followed
the advice of a Minister who proposed measures hostile to the Irish Church, it might be said,
she knew what she undertook, for Sir R. Peel had warned her and left on record the serious
objections that attached to the measure.

I said that I felt it to be of the greatest importance to possess his views on the question,
but that I thought I would not have been justified in keeping a record of our conversation
without showing it to him, and asking him whether I had rightly understood him; but if he felt
a moment's uneasiness about this memorandum, I would at once destroy it, as I was anxious that
nothing should prevent his speaking without the slightest reserve to me in future as he had
done heretofore. I felt that these open discussions were of the greatest use to me in my endeavour
to investigate the different political questions of the day and to form a conclusive opinion
upon them. As Sir Robert did not say a word to dissuade me, I took it as an affirmative, and
threw the memorandum into the fire, which, I could see, relieved Sir Robert.

ALBERT.

Mr Gladstone to Queen Victoria.

13 CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, 1st April 1846.

Mr William Gladstone presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and prays that he may be honoured
with your Majesty's permission to direct that the Park and Tower Guns may be fired forthwith
in celebration of the victory which was achieved by your Majesty's forces over the Sikh army
in Sobraon on the 10th of February.[7]

    [Footnote 7: In September 1882 Mr Gladstone quoted this as
    a precedent for firing the Park Guns after the victory of
    Tel-el-Kebir. See Life of Right Hon. Hugh C. E. Childers, by
    Colonel Childers, C.B., R.E., vol. ii p. 127.]

Queen Victoria to Sir Henry Hardinge.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 6th April 1846.

The Queen must write a line to Sir Henry Hardinge in order to express her extreme satisfaction
at the brilliant and happy termination of our severe contest with the Sikhs, which he communicated
to her in his long and interesting letter of the 18th and 19th February. The Queen much admires
the skill and valour with which their difficult operations have been conducted, and knows how
much she owes to Sir Henry Hardinge's exertions. The Queen hopes that he will see an acknowledgment
of this in the communication she has ordered to be made to him relative to his elevation to
the Peerage.

The Prince, who fully knows all the Queen's feelings on this glorious occasion, wishes to be
named to Sir Henry Hardinge.

PARIS, 5 Mai 1846.

MADAME MA TRÈS CHÈRE S[OE]UR,--Quand le 1^er de Mai, au moment où j'allais commencer les nombreuses
et longues réceptions de mon jour de fête, on m'a remis la lettre si gracieuse que votre Majesté
a eu l'aimable attention de m'écrire de manière à ce que je la reçoive ce jour là, j'en ai
été pénétré, et j'ai pensé tout de suite aux paroles du Menuet d'Iphigénie comme exprimant
le remercîment qu'à mon grand regret, je ne pouvais que sentir, et non exprimer par écrit dans
un pareil moment. J'ai donc fait chercher tout de suite la partition de ce menuet, et celles
du Ch[oe]ur du même Opéra de Glück "Chantons, célébrons notre Reine!" mais on n'a pu, ou pas
su se les procurer, et j'ai dû me contenter de les avoir arrangés pour le piano dans un livre
(pas même relié) qui a au moins pour excuse de contenir toute la musique de cet Opéra. Je l'ai
mis dans une grande enveloppe adressée à votre Majesté et j'ai fait prier Lord Cowley de l'expédier
par le premier Courier qui pourrait s'en charger, comme Dépêche, afin d'éviter ces postages
dont Lord Liverpool m'a révélé l'étonnant usage.

Que vous dirai-je, Madame, sur tous les sentiments dont m'a pénétré cette nouvelle marque d'amitié
de votre part? Vous connaissez celle que je vous porte, et combien elle est vive et sincère.
J'espère bien que l'année ne s'écoulera pas sans que j'aie été présenter mes hommages à votre
Majesté....

Tout ce que j'entends, tout ce que je recueille, me donne de plus en plus l'espérance que la
crise Parlementaire dans laquelle le Ministère de votre Majesté se trouve engagé, se terminera,
comme Elle sait que je le désire vivement, c'est-à-dire que Sir Robert Peel, Lord Aberdeen,
etc., will hold fast, et qu'ils seront encore ses Ministres quand j'aurai le bonheur de Lui
faire ma Cour.

[Pageheading: IRISH CRIMES BILL]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

HOUSE OF COMMONS, 12th June 1846. The debate on this preliminary question lasted until nearly
half-past eleven.

Like every unjust and malignant attack, this, according to Sir Robert Peel's impressions, recoiled
upon its authors.

He thinks the House was completely satisfied. Lord John Russell and Lord Morpeth behaved very well.

The vindictive motive of the attack was apparent to all but a few Protectionists.

Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and assures your Majesty that he
is penetrated with a deep sense of your Majesty's great kindness and your Majesty's generous
sympathy with himself and Lady Peel.

Sir Robert Peel firmly believes that the recent attack made upon him was the result of a foul
conspiracy concocted by Mr Disraeli and Lord George Bentinck, in the hope and belief that from
the lapse of time or want of leisure in Sir Robert Peel to collect materials for his defence,
or the destruction of documents and papers, the means of complete refutation might be wanting....

He hopes, however, he had sufficient proof to demonstrate the falseness of the accusation,
and the malignant motives of the accusers.

He is deeply grateful to your Majesty and to the Prince for the kind interest you have manifested
during the progress of this arduous struggle, which now he trusts is approaching to a successful
termination.

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 26th June 1846.

Sir Robert Peel is just returned from this meeting.

He stated to the Cabinet that after the event of yesterday (the rejection of the Irish Bill
by so large a majority as 73) he felt it to be his duty as head of the Government humbly to
tender his resignation of office to your Majesty. He added that, feeling no assurance that
the result of a Dissolution would be to give a majority agreeing with the Government in general
principles of policy, and sufficient in amount to enable the Government to conduct the business
of the country with credit to themselves and satisfaction to your Majesty and the public at
large, he could not advise your Majesty to dissolve the Parliament.

Sir Robert Peel said that, in his opinion, the Government generally ought to resign, but his
mind was made up as to his own course.

There was not a dissenting voice that it was the duty of the Government to tender their resignation
to your Majesty, and for the reasons stated by Sir Robert Peel, not to advise dissolution.
If Sir Robert Peel does not receive your Majesty's commands to wait upon your Majesty in the
course of to-day, Sir Robert Peel will be at Osborne about half-past three to-morrow.

[Pageheading: PEEL'S RESIGNATION]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

OSBORNE HOUSE, 28th June 1846.

Sir Robert Peel arrived yesterday evening and tendered his resignation. He is evidently much
relieved in quitting a post, the labours and anxieties of which seem almost too much for anybody
to bear, and which in these last six months were particularly onerous. In fact, he said that
he would not have been able to stand it much longer. Nothing, however, would have induced him
to give way before he had passed the Corn Bill and the Tariff.[10] The majority upon the Irish
Bill was much larger than any one had expected; Sir Robert was glad of this, however, as it
convinced his colleagues of the necessity of resigning. He told them at the Cabinet that, as
for himself personally, he had made up his mind to resign, and on being asked what he advised
his Cabinet to do, he recommended them to do the same, which received general concurrence.
The last weeks had not been without some intrigue. There was a party headed by Lord Ellenborough
and Lord Brougham, who wished Sir Robert and Sir James Graham to retire, and for the rest of
the Cabinet to reunite with the Protection section of the Conservatives, and to carry on the
Government. Lord Ellenborough and Lord Brougham had in December last settled to head the Protectionists,
but this combination had been broken up by Lord Ellenborough's acceptance of the post of First
Lord of the Admiralty; Lord Brougham then declared for free trade, perhaps in order to follow
Lord Ellenborough into office. The Duke of Wellington had been for dissolution till he saw
the complete disorganisation of his party in the House of Lords. The Whigs, having been beat
twice the evening before by large majorities on the Roman Catholic Bill, had made every exertion
on the Coercion Bill, and the majority was still increased by Sir Robert's advising the Free
Traders and Radicals, who had intended to stay away in order not to endanger Sir Robert's Government,
not to do so as they would not be able to save him. Seventy Protectionists voted with the majority.

    [Footnote 10: By a remarkable coincidence the Corn Bill passed
    through the Lords on the same night that the Ministry were
    defeated in the Commons.]

Before leaving Town Sir R. Peel addressed a letter to Lord John Russell, informing him that
he was going to the Isle of Wight in order to tender his and his colleagues' resignation to
the Queen, that he did not the least know what Her Majesty's intentions were, but that in case
she should send for Lord John, he (Sir Robert) was ready to see Lord John (should he wish it),
and give him any explanation as to the state of public affairs and Parliamentary business which
he could desire. Sir Robert thought thereby, without in the least committing the Queen, to
indicate to Lord John that he had nothing to fear on his part, and that, on the contrary, he
could reckon upon his assistance in starting the Queen's new Government. He hoped likewise
that this would tend to dispel a clamour for dissolution which the Whigs have raised, alarmed
by their defeats upon the Catholic Bill.

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: END OF THE OREGON DISPUTE]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

HOUSE OF COMMONS, 29th June 1846.

He thinks it was very well received.[11] Lord Palmerston spoke after Sir Robert Peel, but not
very effectively, but no other person spoke. Sir Robert Peel is to see Lord John Russell at
ten to-morrow morning.

Sir Robert Peel humbly congratulates your Majesty on the intelligence received this day from
America. The defeat of the Government on the day on which they carried the Corn Bill, and the
receipt of the intelligence from America[12] on the day on which they resign, are singular
coincidences.

61 EATON PLACE, 29th June 1846. (Midnight.)

MY DEAR ANSON,--Your kind letter reached me half an hour ago whilst Sir T. Acland was sitting
with me; and I must say a few words in reply by the early post. I went down to hear Peel in
the House of Commons, and very fine it was. The House crowded, Peers and Ambassadors filling
every seat and overflowing into the House. Soon after six all private business was over; Peel
not come in, all waiting, no one rose for anything; for ten minutes this lasted: then Peel
came in, walked up the House: colder, dryer, more introverted than ever, yet to a close gaze
showing the fullest working of a smothered volcano of emotions. He was out of breath with walking
and sat down on the Treasury Bench (placing a small despatch box with the Oregon despatches
on the table) as he would be fully himself before he rose. By-and-by he rose, amidst a breathless
silence, and made the speech you will have read long ere this. It was very fine: very effective:
really almost solemn: to fall at such a moment. He spoke as if it was his last political scene:
as if he felt that between alienated friends and unwon foes he could have no party again; and
could only as a shrewd bystander observe and advise others. There was but one point in the
Speech which I thought doubtful: the apostrophe to "Richard Cobden."[14] I think it was wrong,
though there is very much to be said for it. The opening of the American peace was noble; but
for the future, what have we to look to? Already there are whispers of Palmerston and War;
the Whig budget and deficiency. The first great question all men ask is: does Lord John come
in, leaning on Radical or Conservative aid? Is Hawes to be in the Cabinet? the first Dissenter?
the first tradesman? the Irish Church? I wish you were near enough to talk to, though even
then you would know too much that must not be known for a comfortable talk. But I shall hope
soon to see you; and am always, my dear Anson, very sincerely and affectionately yours,

S. OXON.

OSBORNE HOUSE, 30th June 1846.

Lord John Russell arrived here this afternoon; he has seen Sir Robert Peel this morning, and
is prepared to undertake the formation of a Government which he thinks will stand; at least,
for the present session he anticipates no difficulty, as Sir R. Peel has professed himself
ready not to obstruct its progress, and as the Protectionists have held a meeting on Saturday
at which Lord Stanley has declared that he would let this Government go on smoothly unless
the word "Irish Church" was pronounced. About men and offices, Lord John has consulted with
Lord Lansdowne, Palmerston, Clarendon, and Cottenham, who were of opinion that the Liberal
members of Sir Robert's Cabinet ought to be induced to retain office under Lord John, viz.
Lord Dalhousie, Lord Lincoln, and Mr Sidney Herbert. Sir Robert Peel at the interview of this
morning had stated to Lord John that he would not consider it as an attempt to draw his supporters
away from him (it not being his intention to form a party), and that he would not dissuade
them from accepting the offer, but that he feared that they would not accept. We concurred
in this opinion, but Lord John was authorised by Victoria to make the offer. Mr F. Baring,
the Chancellor of the Exchequer under the late Whig Government, has intimated to Lord John
that he would prefer if no offer of office was made to him; Lord John would therefore recommend
Mr Charles Wood for this office. Lord Grey was still a difficulty; in or out of office he seemed
to be made a difficulty. It would be desirable to have him in the Cabinet if he could waive
his opinions upon the Irish Church. His speech in the House of Lords[15] at the beginning of
the session had done much harm, had been very extreme, and Lord John was decidedly against
him in that. Lord Grey knew that everybody blamed it, but said everybody would be of those
(his) opinions ten years hence, and therefore he might just as well hold them now. Mr Wood
having great influence with him might keep him quiet, and so would the Colonial seals, as he
would get work enough. About Lord Palmerston, he is satisfied, and would no more make any difficulty.

    [Footnote 15: On the 23rd of March, in the course of a long
    speech on the state of Ireland, Earl Grey had contrasted the
    poverty of the Roman Catholic Church in that country with the
    affluence of the Establishment, diverted, as he said, by the
    superior power of England from its original objects; adding
    that the Protestant Church was regarded by the great mass of
    the Irish people as an active cause of oppression and misery.]

Lord John Russell told me in the evening that he had forgotten to mention one subject to the
Queen: it was that Sir Robert Peel by his speech and his special mention of Mr Cobden as the
person who had carried the great measure, had made it very difficult for Lord John not to offer
office to Mr Cobden. The Whigs were already accused of being exclusive, and reaping the harvest
of other people's work. The only thing he could offer would be a Cabinet office. Now this would
affront a great many people whom he (Lord J.) had to conciliate, and create even possibly dissension
in his Cabinet. As Mr Cobden was going on the Continent for a year, Lord John was advised by
Lord Clarendon to write to Mr C., and tell him that he had heard he was going abroad, that
he would not make any offer to him therefore, but that he considered him as entitled once to
be recommended for office to the Queen. This he would do, with the Queen's permission....

[Pageheading: THE NEW MINISTRY]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

OSBORNE, 1st July 1846.

The Queen returns these letters, with her best thanks. The settlement of the Oregon question
has given us the greatest satisfaction. It does seem strange that at the moment of triumph
the Government should have to resign. The Queen read Sir Robert Peel's speech with great admiration.
The Queen seizes this opportunity (though she will see Sir Robert again) of expressing her
deep concern at losing his services, which she regrets as much for the Country as for herself
and the Prince. In whatever position Sir Robert Peel may be, we shall ever look on him as a
kind and true friend, and ever have the greatest esteem and regard for him as a Minister and
as a private individual.

The Queen will not say anything about what passed at Lord John Russell's interview, as the
Prince has already written to Sir Robert. She does not think, however, that he mentioned the
wish Lord John expressed that Lord Liverpool should retain his office, which however (much
as we should personally like it) we think he would not do.

What does Sir Robert hear of the Protectionists, and what do his own followers say to the state
of affairs?

[Pageheading: WHIG JEALOUSIES]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 6th July 1846.

Yesterday the new Ministry were installed at a Privy Council, and the Seals of Office transferred
to them. We had a long conversation with Sir Robert Peel, who took leave. I mentioned to him
that his word of "Richard Cobden" had created an immense sensation, but he was not inclined
to enter upon the subject. When we begged him to do nothing which could widen the breach between
him and his party, he said, "I don't think that we can ever get together again." He repeated
that he was anxious not to undertake a Government again, that his health would not stand it,
that it was better likewise for the Queen's service that other, younger men should be brought
forward. Sir Robert, Lord Aberdeen, and Sir James Graham parted with great emotion, and had
tears in their eyes when they thanked the Queen for her confidence and support. Lord Aberdeen
means to have an interview with Lord Palmerston, and says that when he (Lord A.) came into
office, Lord Palmerston and the Chronicle assailed him most bitterly as an imbecile Minister,
a traitor to his country, etc., etc. He means now to show Lord P. the contrast by declaring
his readiness to assist him in every way he can by his advice, that he would at all times speak
to him as if he was his colleague if he wished it.

The new Court is nearly completed, and we have succeeded in obtaining a very respectable and
proper one, notwithstanding the run which the Party made upon it which had been formerly used
to settle these matters, to their liking only. The Government is not a united one, however,
by any means. Mr Wood and Lord Clarendon take the greatest credit in having induced Lord Grey
to join the Government,[16] and are responsible to Lord John to keep him quiet, which they
think they will be able to do, as he had been convinced of the folly of his former line of
conduct. Still, they say Lord Lansdowne will have the lead only nominally, that Lord Grey is
to take it really in the House of Lords. There is the Grey Party, consisting of Lord Grey,
Lord Clarendon, Sir George Grey, and Mr Wood; they are against Lord Lansdowne, Lord Minto,
Lord Auckland, and Sir John Hobhouse, stigmatising them as old women. Lord John leans entirely
to the last-named gentlemen. There is no cordiality between Lord John and Lord Palmerston,
who, if he had to make a choice, would even forget what passed in December last, and join the
Grey Party in preference to Lord John personally. The curious part of all this is that they
cannot keep a secret, and speak of all their differences. They got the Times over by giving
it exclusive information, and the leading articles are sent in and praise the new Cabinet,
but the wicked paper added immediately a furious attack upon Sir John Hobhouse, which alarmed
them so much that they sent to Sir John, sounding him, whether he would be hereafter prepared
to relinquish the Board of Control. (This, however, is a mere personal matter of Mr Walter,
who stood against Sir John at Nottingham in 1841 and was unseated.) Sir John Easthope, the
proprietor of the Morning Chronicle, complains bitterly of the subserviency to the Times and
treason to him. He says he knows that the information was sent from Lord John's house, and
threatens revenge. "If you will be ruled by the Times," he said to one of the Cabinet, "the
Times has shown you already by a specimen that you will be ruled by a rod of iron."

    [Footnote 16: In spite of the opposition of the latter to
    Palmerston's re-appointment to the Foreign Office. See ante,
    p. 60.]

A Brevet for the Army and Navy is proposed, in order to satisfy Lord Anglesey with the dignity
of Field-Marshal.

ALBERT.

The Protectionists, 150 strong, including Peers and M.P.'s, are to give a dinner to Lord Stanley
at Greenwich, at which he is to announce his opinions upon the line they are to take. Lord
George Bentinck is there to lay down the lead which the Party insisted upon. Who is to follow
him as their leader in the Commons nobody knows.

[Pageheading: A WEAK GOVERNMENT]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 7th July 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have to thank you for your kind letter of the 3rd. It arrived yesterday,
which was a very hard day for me. I had to part with Sir R. Peel and Lord Aberdeen, who are
irreparable losses to us and the Country; they were both so much overcome that it quite overset
me, and we have in them two devoted friends. We felt so safe with them. Never, during the five
years that they were with me, did they ever recommend a person or a thing which was not for
my or the Country's best, and never for the Party's advantage only; and the contrast now is
very striking; there is much less respect and much less high and pure feeling. Then the discretion
of Peel, I believe, is unexampled.

Stockmar has, I know, explained to you the state of affairs, which is unexampled, and I think
the present Government very weak and extremely disunited. What may appear to you as a mistake
in November was an inevitable evil. Aberdeen very truly explained it yesterday. "We had ill
luck," he said; "if it had not been for this famine in Ireland, which rendered immediate measures
necessary, Sir Robert would have prepared them gradually for the change." Then, besides, the
Corn Law Agitation was such that if Peel had not wisely made this change (for which the whole
Country blesses him), a convulsion would shortly have taken place, and we should have been
forced to yield what has been granted as a boon. No doubt the breaking up of the Party (which
will come together again, whether under Peel or some one else) is a very distressing thing.
The only thing to be regretted, and I do not know exactly why he did it (though we can guess),
was his praise of Cobden, which has shocked people a good deal.

But I can't tell you how sad I am to lose Aberdeen; you can't think what a delightful companion
he was; the breaking up of all this intercourse during our journeys, etc., is deplorable.

We have contrived to get a very respectable Court.

Albert's use to me, and I may say to the Country, by his firmness and sagacity, is beyond all
belief in these moments of trial.

We are all well, but I am, of course, a good deal overset by all these tribulations.

Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

I was much touched to see Graham so very much overcome at taking leave of us.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S ANXIETY]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Hardinge.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 8th July 1846.

The Queen thanks Lord Hardinge for his interesting communications. Lord Hardinge will have
learnt all that has taken place in the Country; one of the most brilliant Governments this
Country ever had has fallen at the moment of victory! The Queen has now, besides mourning over
this event, the anxiety of having to see the Government carried on as efficiently as possible,
for the welfare of the Country. The Queen would find a guarantee for the accomplishment of
this object in Lord Hardinge's consenting to continue at the head of the Government of India,
where great experiments have been made which require unity of purpose and system to be carried
out successfully.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 10th July 1846.

... The Queen approves of the pensions proposed by Lord J. Russell, though she cannot conceal
from him that she thinks the one to Father Mathew a doubtful proceeding. It is quite true that
he has done much good by preaching temperance, but by the aid of superstition, which can hardly
be patronised by the Crown.[17]

The Queen is sure that Lord John will like her at all times to speak out her mind, and has,
therefore, done so without reserve.

    [Footnote 17: The pension was, however, granted.]

[Pageheading: THE FRENCH ROYAL FAMILY]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 14th July 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--We are very happily established here since Thursday, and have beautiful
weather for this truly enjoyable place; we drive, walk, and sit out--and the nights are so
fine. I long for you to be here. It has quite restored my spirits, which were much shaken by
the sad leave-takings in London--of Sir R. Peel, Lord Aberdeen, Lord Liverpool, etc. Lord L.
could not well have stayed. Lord Aberdeen was very much overset.

The present Government is weak, and I think Lord J. does not possess the talent of keeping
his people together. Most people think, however, that they will get through this Session; the
only question of difficulty is the sugar question.

I think that the King of the French's visit is more than ever desirable--now; for if he were
to be shy of coming, it would prove to the world that this new Government was hostile, and
the entente cordiale no longer sure. Pray impress this on the King--and I hope and beg he will
let the dear Nemours pay us a little visit in November. It would have the best effect, and
be so pleasant, as we are so dull in the winter all by ourselves. I hope that in future, when
the King and the Family are at Eu, some of them will frequently come over to see us here. It
would be so nice and so near.

Now adieu, dearest Uncle. I hope I shall not have to write to you again, but have the happiness
of saying de vive voix, that I am ever, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGES]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 16th July 1846.

... With regard to the marriage of the Queen of Spain, Viscount Palmerston has received a good
deal of general information from persons who have conversed with him on the subject, but he
has learnt nothing thereupon which was not already known to your Majesty. The state of that
matter seems, in a few words, to be that the Count of Trapani is now quite out of the question,
that the Count of Montemolin, though wished for by Austria, and in some degree supported by
the Court of the Tuileries, would be an impossible choice, and that the alternative now lies
between Don Enrique and the Prince Leopold of Coburg, the two Queens being equally set against
the Duke of Cadiz, Don Enrique's elder brother. In favour of Prince Leopold seem to be the
two Queens, and a party (of what extent and influence does not appear) in Spain. Against that
Prince are arrayed, ostensibly at least, the Court of the Tuileries and the Liberal Party in
Spain; and probably to a certain degree the Government of Austria.

In favour of Don Enrique are a very large portion of the Spanish nation, who would prefer a
Spanish prince for their Sovereign's husband; and the preference, expressed only as an opinion
and without any acts in furtherance of it, by your Majesty's late Administration. Against Don
Enrique are the aversion of the Queen Mother, founded on her family differences with her late
sister, and the apprehensions of the present Ministers in Spain, who would think their power
endangered by the political connection between Don Enrique and the more Liberal Party. The
sentiments of the King of the French in regard to Don Enrique seem not very decided; but it
appears likely that the King of the French would prefer Count Montemolin or the Duke of Cadiz
to Don Enrique; but that he would prefer Don Enrique to the Prince Leopold of Coburg, because
the former would fall within the category of Bourbon princes, descended from Philip the Fifth
of Spain, proposed by the King of the French as the limited circle within which the Queen of
Spain should find a husband.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

16th July 1846.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's interesting letter, and is very much satisfied with
his parting conversation with Ibrahim Pasha, which she conceives will not be lost upon him.
The view Lord Palmerston takes about the present position of the Spanish marriage question
appears to the Queen quite correct. She finds only one omission, which is Queen Isabella's
personal objection to Don Enrique, and the danger which attaches to marriage with a Prince
taken up by a Political Party in Spain, which makes him the political enemy of the opposite
Party.[18]

The Queen thanks Lord Palmerston for his zeal about Portugal, which is really in an alarming
state.[19] She sends herewith the last letter which she received from the King of Portugal.
The Queen is sorry to have lost the opportunity of seeing Marshal Saldanha.

    [Footnote 18: On the 18th of July Lord Palmerston wrote his
    celebrated despatch to Mr Bulwer, and unfortunately showed
    a copy of it to Jarnac, the French Ambassador in London. The
    mention of Prince Leopold in it, as a possible candidate for
    the Queen of Spain's hand, gave the French King and Minister
    the opportunity they wanted, and brought matters to a crisis.
    See Life of the Prince Consort, vol. i. chap. xvii.;
    Dalling's Life of Lord Palmerston, vol. iii. chaps. vii. and
    viii.]

    [Footnote 19: Owing to the insurrection, a run took place on
    the Bank of Lisbon. The Ministry (in which Saldanha was War
    Minister) had some difficulty in raising a loan.]

[Pageheading: THE PREROGATIVE OF DISSOLUTION]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE HOUSE, 16th July 1846.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's communication of yesterday, and sincerely hopes
that Lord John's sugar measure[20] may be such that the Committee of the Cabinet, as well as
the whole Cabinet and Parliament, may concur in it, which would save the country another struggle
this year. The Queen trusts, moreover, that late experience and good sense may induce the West
Indians to be moderate and accommodating. As Lord John touches in his letter on the possibility
of a Dissolution, the Queen thinks it right to put Lord John in possession of her views upon
this subject generally. She considers the power of dissolving Parliament a most valuable and
powerful instrument in the hands of the Crown, but which ought not to be used except in extreme
cases and with a certainty of success. To use this instrument and be defeated is a thing most
lowering to the Crown and hurtful to the country. The Queen strongly feels that she made a
mistake in allowing the Dissolution in 1841; the result has been a majority returned against
her of nearly one hundred votes; but suppose the result to have been nearly an equality of
votes between the two contending parties, the Queen would have thrown away her last remedy,
and it would have been impossible for her to get any Government which could have carried on
public business with a chance of success.

The Queen was glad therefore to see that Sir Robert Peel did not ask for a Dissolution, and
she entirely concurs in the opinion expressed by him in his last speech in the House of Commons,
when he said:

"I feel strongly this, that no Administration is justified in advising the exercise of that
prerogative, unless there be a fair, reasonable presumption, even a strong moral conviction,
that after a Dissolution they will be enabled to administer the affairs of this country through
the support of a party sufficiently powerful to carry their measures. I do not think a Dissolution
justifiable to strengthen a party. I think the power of Dissolution is a great instrument in
the hands of the Crown, and that there is a tendency to blunt that instrument if it be resorted
to without necessity.

"The only ground for Dissolution would have been a strong presumption that after a Dissolution
we should have had a party powerful enough in this House to give effect practically to the
measures which we might propose. I do not mean a support founded on a concurrence on one great
question of domestic policy, however important that may be, not of those who differ from us
on almost all questions of public policy, agreeing with us in one; but that we should have
the support of a powerful party united by a general concurrence of political opinions."

The Queen is confident that these views will be in accordance with Lord John Russell's own
sentiments and opinions upon this subject.

    [Footnote 20: In pursuance of the policy of free trade, the
    Ministry introduced and passed a Bill reducing the duties
    on foreign slave-grown sugar, with the ultimate intention of
    equalising them with those on Colonial produce.]

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE'S VIEWS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 21st July 1846.

What your Majesty says of the state of public affairs and of parties in Parliament is true.
But in November last Sir Robert Peel had a party which might have enabled him to have long
carried on the Government if he had not most unaccountably chosen himself to scatter it to
the winds.

Lord Melbourne is much gratified by the intimation that your Majesty would not have been displeased
or unwilling to see him again amongst your confidential servants, but your Majesty acted most
kindly and most judiciously in not calling upon him in November last, and John Russell has
done the same in forbearing to make to Lord Melbourne any offer at present. When Lord Melbourne
was at Brocket Hall during the Whitsuntide holidays he clearly foresaw that Sir Robert Peel's
Government must be very speedily dissolved; and upon considering the state of his own health
and feelings, he came to the determination, which he communicated to Mr Ellice, who was with
him, that he could take no active part in the then speedily approaching crisis. He felt himself
quite unequal to the work, and also to that of either of the Secretaries of State, or even
of the more subordinate and less heavy and responsible offices. He is very subject to have
accesses of weakness, which render him incapable for exertion, and deprive his life of much
of its enjoyment. They do not appear at present to hasten its termination, but how soon they
may do so it is impossible to foretell or foresee.

Lord Melbourne hopes that he shall be able to wait upon your Majesty on Saturday next, but
he fears the weight of the full dress uniform. He begs to be remembered to His Royal Highness.

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE AND PEEL]

Sir Robert Peel to the Prince Albert.

DRAYTON MANOR, FAZELEY, August 1846.

SIR,--I shall be very happy to avail myself of your Royal Highness's kind permission occasionally
to write to your Royal Highness. However much I am enjoying the contrast between repose and
official life, I may say--I hope without presumption, I am sure with perfect sincerity--that
the total interruption of every sort of communication with your Royal Highness would be a very
severe penalty.

It was only yesterday that I was separating from the rest of my correspondence all the letters
which I had received from the Queen and your Royal Highness during the long period of five
years, in order that I might ensure their exemption from the fate to which in these days all
letters seem to be destined, and I could not review them without a mixed feeling of gratitude
for the considerate indulgence and kindness of which they contained such decisive proofs, and
of regret that such a source of constantly recurring interest and pleasure was dried up.

I can act in conformity with your Royal Highness's gracious wishes, and occasionally write
to you, without saying a word of which the most jealous or sensitive successor in the confidence
of the Queen could complain.... Your faithful and humble Servant,

ROBERT PEEL.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 3rd August 1846.

The Queen has just seen Lord Bessborough, who presses very much for her going to Ireland; she
thinks it right to put Lord John Russell in possession of her views on this subject.

It is a journey which must one day or other be undertaken, and which the Queen would be glad
to have accomplished, because it must be disagreeable to her that people should speculate whether
she dare visit one part of her dominions. Much will depend on the proper moment, for, after
those speculations, it ought to succeed if undertaken.

The Queen is anxious that when undertaken it should be a National thing, and the good which
it is to do must be a permanent and not a transitory advantage to a particular Government,
having the appearance of a party move.

As this is not a journey of pleasure like the Queen's former ones, but a State act, it will
have to be done with a certain degree of State, and ought to be done handsomely. It cannot
be expected that the main expense of it should fall upon the Civil List, nor would this be
able to bear it.

[Pageheading: CANADIAN AFFAIRS]

The Prince Albert to Earl Grey.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 3rd August 1846.

MY DEAR LORD GREY,--The Queen wishes me to return you the enclosed letter. The subject of the
Government of Canada is one which the Queen has much at heart. Canada has been for a long time,
and may probably still be for the future, a source of great weakness to this Empire, and a
number of experiments have been tried. It was in a very bad state before the Union, continually
embarrassing the Home Government, and the Union has by no means acted as a remedy, but it may
be said almost to have increased the difficulties. The only thing that has hitherto proved
beneficial was the prudent, consistent, and impartial administration of Lord Metcalfe. Upon
the continuance and consistent application of the system which he has laid down and acted upon,
will depend, in the Queen's estimation, the future welfare of that province, and the maintenance
of proper relations with the mother country. The Queen therefore is most anxious that in the
appointment of a new Governor-General (for which post she thinks Lord Elgin very well qualified),
regard should be had to securing an uninterrupted development of Lord Metcalfe's views. The
Queen thought it the more her duty to make you acquainted with her sentiments upon this subject,
because she thinks that additional danger arises from the impressions which the different agents
of the different political parties in Canada try to produce upon the Home Government and the
imperial Parliament, and from their desire to mix up Canadian party politics with general English
party politics.[21] Ever yours, etc.

ALBERT.

    [Footnote 21: In the event, Lord Elgin was appointed.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 4th August 1846.

Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and is greatly obliged to your
Majesty for your Majesty's communication respecting a Royal visit to Ireland. He concurs in
your Majesty's observations on that subject. He is of opinion that if the visit partook in
any way of a party character, its effects would be mischievous, and not beneficial.

He is also doubtful of the propriety of either incurring very large expense on the part of
the public, or of encouraging Irish proprietors to lay out money in show and ceremony at a
time when the accounts of the potato crop exhibit the misery and distress of the people in
an aggravated shape.

[Pageheading: THE WELLINGTON STATUE]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

7th August [1846].

With regard to the Statue[22] on the arch on Constitution Hill, the Queen is of opinion that
if she is considered individually she is bound by her word, and must allow the Statue to go
up, however bad the appearance of it will be. If the constitutional fiction is applied to the
case, the Queen acts by the advice of her responsible advisers. One Government advised her
to give her assent, another advises the withdrawal of that assent. This latter position has
been taken in Lord Morpeth's former letter to the Committee, and in the debate in the House
of Commons; it must therefore now be adhered to, and whatever is decided must be the act of
the Government. It would accordingly be better to keep the word "Government" at the conclusion
of Lord Morpeth's proposed letter, and that the Prince should not go to Town to give an opinion
upon the appearance of the figure, when up.

    [Footnote 22: The equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington
    at Hyde Park Corner was much criticised at the time of its
    erection: it is now at Aldershot.]

The Prince Albert to Viscount Palmerston.

[9th August 1846.]

MY DEAR LORD PALMERSTON,--The Queen is much obliged for Lord Howard de Walden's private letter
to you, and begs you will never hesitate to send her such private communications, however unreserved
they may be in their language, as our chief wish and aim is, by hearing all parties, to arrive
at a just, dispassionate, and correct opinion upon the various political questions. This, however,
entails a strict scrutiny of what is brought before us....

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND SPAIN]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 17th August 1846.

The Queen has received a draft to Mr Bulwer from Lord Palmerston. The perusal of it has raised
some apprehensions in the Queen's mind, which she stated to Lord Palmerston she would communicate
to Lord John Russell.

The draft lays down a general policy, which the Queen is afraid may ultimately turn out very
dangerous. It is this:

England undertakes to interfere in the internal affairs of Spain, and to promote the development
of the present constitutional Government of Spain in a more democratic direction, and this
for the avowed purpose of counteracting the influence of France. England becomes therefore
responsible for a particular direction given to the internal Government of Spain, which to
control she has no sufficient means. All England can do, and will have to do, is: to keep up
a particular party in Spain to support her views.

France, knowing that this is directed against her, must take up the opposite party and follow
the opposite policy in Spanish affairs.

This must bring England and France to quarrels, of which we can hardly foresee the consequences,
and it dooms Spain to eternal convulsions and reactions.

This has been the state of things before; theory and experience therefore warn against the
renewal of a similar policy.

The natural consequence of this is that Don Enrique would appear as the desirable candidate
for the Queen of Spain's hand, and Lord Palmerston accordingly for the first time deviates
from the line hitherto followed by us, and urges Don Enrique, which in the eyes of the world
must stamp him as "an English Candidate." Lord Palmerston, from his wish to see him succeed,
does, in the Queen's opinion, not sufficiently acknowledge the obstacles which stand in the
way of this combination, and which all those who are on the spot and in the confidence of the
Court represent as almost insurmountable.

The Queen desires Lord John Russell to weigh all this most maturely, and to let her know the
result.

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 19th August 1846.

Lord John Russell entirely concurs in your Majesty's wish that England and France should not
appear at Madrid as countenancing conflicting parties. Lord John Russell did not attach this
meaning to Lord Palmerston's proposed despatch, but he has now re-written the draft in such
a manner as he trusts will obtain your Majesty's approval.

Lord John Russell will pay the utmost attention to this difficult and delicate subject.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has endeavoured to modify
and rearrange his proposed instruction to Mr Bulwer in deference to your Majesty's wishes and
feelings as expressed to Lord John Russell; and with this view also Viscount Palmerston has
divided the instruction into two separate despatches--the one treating of the proposed marriage
of the Queen, the other of the possible marriage of the Infanta. But with regard to these new
drafts, as well as with regard to the former one, Viscount Palmerston would beg to submit that
they are not notes to be presented to any Foreign Government, nor despatches to be in any way
made public; but that they are confidential instructions given to one of your Majesty's Ministers
abroad, upon matters upon which your Majesty's Government have been urgently pressed, to enable
that Minister to give advice; and Viscount Palmerston would beg also to submit that in a case
of this kind it would not be enough to communicate drily the opinion of the British Government,
without stating and explaining some of the reasons upon which those opinions are founded.

It is quite evident from Mr Bulwer's communication, and especially from the postscript to his
despatch of the 4th of this month, that Queen Christina, the Duke of Rianzares, and Señor Isturitz,
are earnestly and intently bent upon marrying the Queen Isabella to Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg,
and it is very difficult to find conclusive grounds for saying that such a match would not
perhaps, on the whole, be the best for Queen Isabella and the Spanish nation. But still, all
things considered, your Majesty's Government incline to the opinion that a Spanish Prince would
be a preferable choice, and they are prepared to give that opinion to the Spanish Court.

There is however but one Spanish Prince whom it would be creditable to the British Government
to recommend as husband to the Queen, and to that Prince Queen Christina is known to feel objections,
principally founded upon apprehensions bearing upon her own personal interests. Viscount Palmerston
has endeavoured to furnish Mr Bulwer with such arguments in favour of Don Enrique as appeared
likely to meet Queen Christina's fears, and he has occasion to believe, from a conversation
which he had a few days ago with Count Jarnac, that the French Government, impelled by the
apprehension that your Majesty's Government intend to support Prince Leopold of Coburg, would
be willing, in order to draw the British Government off from such a course, to give at least
an ostensible though perhaps not a very earnest support to Don Henry. But your Majesty will
no doubt at once perceive that although the British Government may come to an understanding
with that of France as to which of the candidates shall be the one in whose favour an opinion
is to be expressed, it would be impossible for the British Government to associate itself with
that of France in any joint step to be taken upon this matter, and that each Government must
act separately through its own agent at Madrid. For the two Governments have not only different
objects in view in these matters, England wishing Spain to be independent, and France desiring
to establish a predominant influence in Spain; but moreover, in regard to this marriage question,
Great Britain has disclaimed any right to interfere except by opinion and advice, while France
has assumed an authority of dictation, and it is essential that your Majesty's Government should
so shape the mode of co-operating with France as not to appear to sanction pretensions which
are founded in no right and are inconsistent with justice.

Viscount Palmerston is by no means confident that the joint advice of the British and French
Governments in favour of Don Enrique will be successful, and especially because he fears that
M. Bresson has taken so active a part in favour of other arrangements, that he will not be
very eager in support of Don Enrique, and will perhaps think that if this arrangement can be
rendered impossible the chances may become greater in favour of some other arrangement which
he and his Government may prefer. But such future embarrassments must be dealt with when they
arise, and Viscount Palmerston submits that for the moment, unless the British Government had
been prepared to close with the offers of the Duke of Rianzares, and to follow at once the
course recommended by Mr Bulwer, the steps suggested in the accompanying drafts are the safest
and the best.

Viscount Palmerston has great pleasure in submitting the accompanying private letter from Mr
Bulwer announcing the withdrawal of the Spanish troops from the frontier of Portugal.

[Pageheading: THE DOUBLE BETROTHAL]

Mr Bulwer to Viscount Palmerston.

MADRID, 29th August 1846.

MY LORD,--I have troubled your Lordship of late with many communications....

I have now to announce to your Lordship that the Queen declared last night at twelve o'clock
that she had made up her mind in favour of His Royal Highness Don Francisco de Asis.... Your
Lordship is aware under what circumstances Don Francisco was summoned here, the Court having
been, when I wrote on the 4th, most anxious to conclude a marriage with Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg,
and only induced to abandon this idea from the repeated intimations it received that it could
not be carried out....

The same night a Council was held of the Queen Mother's friends, who determined to bring matters
forthwith to a conclusion. Queen Christina, I understand, spoke to her daughter and told her
she must choose one of two things, either marrying now, or deferring the marriage for three
or four years. That the Prince of Saxe-Coburg was evidently impossible; that Count Trapani
would be dangerous; that Don Henry had placed himself in a position which rendered the alliance
with him out of the question, and that Her Majesty must either make up her mind to marry her
cousin Don Francisco de Asis, or to abandon for some time the idea of marrying.

The Queen, I am told, took some little time to consider, and then decided in favour of her
cousin. The Ministers were called in, and the drama was concluded....

H. L. BULWER.

P.S.--I learn that directly the Queen had signified her intention of marrying her cousin, Count
Bresson formally asked the hand of the Infanta for the Duke of Montpensier, stating that he
had powers to enter upon and conclude that affair, and the terms of the marriage were then
definitively settled between M. Isturitz and him.

H.L.B.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S INDIGNATION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

On Board the Victoria and Albert, FALMOUTH HARBOUR, 7th September 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Though I have not heard from you for ages, you will perhaps be glad to hear
from us, and to hear that our trip has been most successful. We left Osborne on the 2nd, at
eight in the morning, and reached Jersey at seven that evening. We landed at St Heliers the
next morning, and met with a most brilliant and enthusiastic reception from the good people.
The island is beautiful, and like an orchard.

The settlement of the Queen of Spain's marriage, coupled with Montpensier's, is infamous, and
we must remonstrate. Guizot has had the barefacedness to say to Lord Normanby that though originally
they said that Montpensier should only marry the Infanta when the Queen was married and had
children, that Leopold's being named one of the candidates had changed all, and that they must
settle it now! This is too bad, for we were so honest as almost to prevent Leo's marriage (which
might have been, and which Lord Palmerston, as matters now stand, regrets much did not take
place), and the return is this unfair coupling of the two marriages which have nothing, and
ought to have nothing, to do with one another. The King should know that we are extremely indignant,
and that this conduct is not the way to keep up the entente which he wishes. It is done, moreover,
in such a dishonest way. I must do Palmerston the credit to say that he takes it very quietly,
and will act very temperately about it.

I must now conclude. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Vicky and Bertie enjoy their tour very much, and the people here are delighted to see "the
Duke of Cornwall."

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN OF THE FRENCH]

The Queen of the French to Queen Victoria.

NEUILLY, 8 Septembre 1846.

MADAME,--Confiante dans cette précieuse amitié dont votre Majesté nous a donné tant de preuves
et dans l'aimable intérêt que vous avez toujours témoigné à tous nos Enfants, je m'empresse
de vous annoncer la conclusion du mariage de notre fils Montpensier avec l'Infante Louise Fernanda.
Je vous demande d'avance votre amitié pour notre nouvel Enfant, sûre qu'elle partagera tous
les sentiments de dévouement et d'affection de nous tous pour vous, pour le Prince Albert,
et pour toute votre chère Famille.

Queen Victoria to the Queen of the French.

OSBORNE, 10 Septembre 1846.

MADAME,--Je viens de recevoir la lettre de votre Majesté du 8 de ce mois, et je m'empresse
de vous en remercier. Vous vous souviendrez peut-être de ce qui s'est passé à Eu entre le Roi
et moi, vous connaissez, Madame, l'importance que j'ai toujours attachée au maintien de Notre
Entente Cordiale et le zèle avec lequel j'y ai travaillé, vous avez appris sans doute que nous
nous sommes refusés d'arranger le mariage entre la Reine d'Espagne et notre Cousin Léopold
(que les deux Reines avaient vivement désiré) dans le seul but de ne pas nous éloigner d'une
marche qui serait plus agréable à votre Roi, quoique nous ne pouvions considérer cette marche
comme la meilleure. Vous pourrez donc aisément comprendre que l'annonce soudaine de ce double
mariage ne pouvait nous causer que de la surprise et un bien vif regret.

Je vous demande bien pardon de vous parler de politique dans ce moment, mais j'aime pouvoir
me dire que j'ai toujours été sincère envers vous.

CARLTON TERRACE, 12th September 1846.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and returns with many acknowledgments
the accompanying letters which your Majesty has been pleased to send him, and which he has
thought your Majesty would wish him also to communicate to Lord John Russell.

The letter of the Queen of the French seems to Viscount Palmerston to look like a contrivance
to draw your Majesty on to express, in regard to the Montpensier marriage in its character
as a domestic arrangement, some sentiments or wishes which might be at variance with the opinions
which your Majesty might entertain regarding that marriage in its political character and bearing.
But your Majesty's most judicious answer has defeated that intention, if any such existed,
and has stated in a firm, but at the same time in the friendliest manner, the grounds of complaint
against the conduct of the French Government in this affair.

Viscount Palmerston had yesterday afternoon a very long conversation with the Count de Jarnac
upon these matters.

Viscount Palmerston said that with regard to the marriage of the Queen of Spain, that was a
matter as to which the British Government have no political objection to make. They deeply
regret that a young Queen should have been compelled by moral force, and to serve the personal
and political interests of other persons, to accept for husband a person whom she can neither
like nor respect, and with whom her future life will certainly be unhappy at home, even if
it should not be characterised by circumstances which would tend to lower her in the estimation
of her people. But these are matters which concern the Queen and people of Spain more than
the Government and people of England. But that the projected marriage of the Duke of Montpensier
is a very different matter, and must have a political bearing that must exercise a most unfortunate
effect upon the relations between England and France.

[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGES]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 14th September 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have to thank you for a most kind letter of the 31st from Basle, by which
I was sorry to see that your journey had been delayed, and that you were still not well.

We are, alas! sadly engrossed with this Spanish marriage, which, though it does not threaten
war (for the English care very little about the Spanish marriages) threatens complications.
Albert has told you all that passed between the dear Queen and me, and the very absurd ground
on which the French make their stand. The details of the story are very bad--and I grieve to
say that the good King, etc., have behaved very dishonestly.

We have protested, and mean to protest very strongly, against Montpensier's marriage with the
Infanta, as long as she is presumptive heiress to the Throne of Spain. The King departs from
his principle, for he insisted on a Bourbon, because he declared he would not marry one of
his sons to the Queen; and now he effects the Queen's marriage with the worst Bourbon she could
have, and marries his son to the Infanta, who in all probability will become Queen! It is very
bad. Certainly at Madrid [Palmerston] mismanaged it--as Stockmar says--by forcing Don Enrique,
in spite of all Bulwer could say. If our dear Aberdeen was still at his post, the whole thing
would not have happened; for he would not have forced Enriquito (which enraged Christine),
and secondly, Guizot would not have escamoté Aberdeen with the wish of triumphing over him
as he has done over Palmerston, who has behaved most openly and fairly towards France, I must
say, in this affair. But say what one will, it is he again who indirectly gets us into a squabble
with France! And it is such a personal sort of a quarrel, which pains and grieves me so; and
I pity the poor good Piat,[23] whom we are very fond of. One thing, however, I feel, that in
opposing this marriage, we are not really affecting his happiness, for he has never seen the
Infanta--and she is a child of fourteen, and not pretty. The little Queen I pity so much, for
the poor child dislikes her cousin, and she is said to have consented against her will. We
shall see if she really does marry him. Altogether, it is most annoying, and must ruffle our
happy intercourse with the French family for a time at least.

I was obliged to write very strongly and openly to poor dear Louise too. You may rely upon
nothing being done rashly or intemperately on our part. Lord Palmerston is quite ready to be
guided by us. In haste, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

We go into our new house to-day.

    [Footnote 23: A name by which the Duc de Montpensier was
    sometimes called in the family circle.]

Baron Stockmar to Queen Victoria.

18th September 1846.

Baron Stockmar has been honoured with your Majesty's kind note of the 17th instant. The very
day the Baron heard of the Spanish news, he wrote to a man at Paris, whom the King sees as
often as he presents himself at the palace. In this letter the Baron stated fairly and moderately
but without palliation in what light M. Bresson's conduct must necessarily appear in London,
and what very naturally and most probably must be the political consequences of such conduct.

The Baron's statement was read to the King, word for word, the very evening it reached Paris.

His Majesty listened to it most attentively, and said after some pause: "Notwithstanding all
this, the marriage will take place. I don't consider Montpensier's marriage an affair between
nations, and the English people, in particular, care very little about it; it is much more
a private affair between myself and the English Secretary, Lord Palmerston, and as such it
will not bring on important political consequences."

[Pageheading: LETTER TO QUEEN LOUISE]

Queen Victoria to the Queen of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 18 Septembre 1846.

MA BIEN CHÈRE LOUISE,--Je te remercie pour ton retour de franchise; je ne désire pas que cette
controverse entre de plus dans notre correspondance privée, comme elle est le sujet et le sera
je crains encore davantage de discussion politique. Je veux seulement dire qu'il est impossible
de donner à cette affaire le cachet d'une simple affaire de famille; l'attitude prise à Paris
sur cette affaire de mariage dès le commencement était une fort étrange; il fallait toute la
discrétion de Lord Aberdeen pour qu'elle n'amenât un éclat plutôt; mais ce dénouement, si contraire
à la parole du Roi, qu'il m'a donnée lors de cette dernière visite à Eu spontanément, en ajoutant
à la complication, pour la première fois, celle du projet de mariage de Montpensier, aura mauvaise
mine devant toute l'Europe.

Rien de plus pénible n'aurait pu arriver que toute cette dispute qui prend un caractère si
personnel....

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S INDIGNATION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 21st September 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have to thank you very much for your very kind letter of the 5th from
Zurich. It is very unfortunate that you should be so far off at this moment. Since I wrote
to you we have decided to remonstrate both at Madrid (this went a week ago), and at Paris,
but this last not in a formal note but in a despatch to Lord Normanby, against this very unjustifiable
breach of faith on the part of France. We have seen these despatches, which are very firm,
but written in a very proper and kind tone, exposing at the same time the fallacy of what has
been done; for the King himself declared that he would never let one of his sons marry the
Queen, he insisted on her marrying a descendant of Philip V. This has been done, and at the
same moment he says his son is to marry the Infanta, who may become Queen to-morrow!And to
all this he says, "C'est seulement une affaire de famille"! The King is very fond of England,
and still more of peace, and he never can sacrifice this (for though it would not be immediate
war it would cause coolness with us and with other Powers, and would probably lead to war in
a short time), for a breach of faith and for one of his sons' marriages. No quarrel or misunderstanding
in the world could be more disagreeable and to me more cruelly painful, for it is so personal,
and has come into the midst of all our communications and correspondence, and is too annoying.
It is so sad, too, for dear Louise, to whom one cannot say that her father has behaved dishonestly.
I hope, however, another ten days will show us some daylight. I will not mention anything about
Leopold's[24] answer, as Albert will, I doubt not, write to you all about it. It is very satisfactory,
however.

We are since this day week in our charming new house, which is delightful, and to-morrow we
go, alas! to Windsor, where we expect the Queen-Dowager and the Princess of Prussia, who will
remain a week with us. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

I received this afternoon your kind letter from Gais of the 12th. One word more I must just
add. No doubt if Lord Aberdeen had been at his post what has happened would not have taken
place, and suspicion of Lord Palmerston has been the cause of the unjustifiable conduct of
the French Government. But just as they did suspect him, they should have been more cautious
to do anything which could bring on a quarrel, which is surely not what the King can wish.

    [Footnote 24: Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCESS OF PRUSSIA]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 29th September 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I received last week your very kind and satisfactory letter of the 16th.
Your opinion on this truly unfortunate and, on the part of the French, disgraceful affair is
a great support to us. Stockmar has, I know, communicated to you what has passed, and he will
send you copies of the King's letter and my answer. Our conduct has been throughout honest,
and the King's and Guizot's the contrary. How the King can wantonly throw away the friendship
of one who has stood by him with such sincere affection, for a doubtful object of personal
and family aggrandizement, is to me and to the whole country inexplicable. Have confidence
in him I fear I never can again, and Peel, who is here on a visit, says a war may arise any
moment, once that the good understanding is disturbed; think, then, that the King has done
this in his 74th year, and leaves this inheritance to his successor; and to whom--to a Grandchild,
and a Minor!And for Nemours and Paris, our friendship is of the greatest importance, and yet
he prefers the troubles of governing Spain, which will be a source of constant worry and anxiety,
to the happy understanding so happily existing between our two countries! I cannot comprehend
him. Guizot behaves shamefully, and so totally without good faith. Our protests have been presented.
I feel more than ever the loss of our valuable Peel.

I wish, dearest Uncle, you would not go to Paris at all at present.

The Queen-Dowager and the Princess of Prussia[25] have left us this morning after a week's
stay, and I have been delighted with the Princess. I find her so clever, so amiable, so well
informed, and so good; she seems to have some enemies, for there are whispers of her being
false; but from all that I have seen of her--from her discretion, her friendship through thick
and thin, and to her own detriment, for Hélène, and for the Queen-Dowager who has known her
from her birth, I cannot and will not believe it. Her position is a very difficult one; she
is too enlightened and liberal for the Prussian Court not to have enemies; but I believe that
she is a friend to us and our family, and I do believe that I have a friend in her, who may
be most useful to us. I must conclude, envying your being in Tyrol. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 25: Marie Louise Augusta, daughter of the Grand
    Duke Charles of Saxe-Weimar, subsequently Empress of Germany,
    mother of Prince Frederick William, afterwards the Emperor
    Frederick, who in 1858 married the Princess Royal.]

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND THE THREE POWERS]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 1st October 1846.

The Queen wishes to express her approval of the step taken by Lord Palmerston in urging the
Three Northern Powers to join in the protest against the Montpensier marriage on the ground
of the Treaty of Utrecht and the Declaration of Philip V. She thinks, however, that it is necessary
to do more, and wishes Lord Palmerston should send a note to the Cabinets of the three Powers,
explanatory of the whole of the proceedings relative to the Spanish marriages, showing the
attitude taken by us from the first, and disclosing the facts which led to this unfortunate
termination. The three Powers ought to be enabled to see the whole of the transaction if we
wish them to sympathise with us.

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

1st October 1846.

Lord John Russell saw Count Jarnac to-day, and told him that your Majesty's displeasure had
not been removed. He had in his hands a memorandum, which is apparently word for word the letter
of the King of the French to the Queen of the Belgians.[26]

Lord John Russell observed that it was admitted that the Duke of Montpensier was not to marry
the Infanta till the Queen of Spain had children, and that voluntary engagement had been departed
from. We might expect the same departure from the professions now made not to interfere in
the affairs of Spain.

Count Jarnac protested against this inference, and repeated that the promise with regard to
the Infanta was only conditional.

Lord John Russell expects that in consequence of the remonstrances of England, and the attention
of Europe to the question, France will be cautious in her interference with the internal government
of Spain, and may probably not be able to direct her external policy.

M. Bresson has written a long letter to Lord Minto, defending his own conduct.

    [Footnote 26: See Louis Philippe's long letter of the 14th of
    September, printed in the Life of the Prince Consort, vol.
    i. Appendix B. Queen Victoria's complete and unanswerable
    reply will be found there also.]

[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGES]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 6th October 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I thank you very much for your last kind letter from Gais of the 23rd. This
unfortunate Spanish affair has gone on, heedlessly--and our entente wantonly thrown away! I
mourn over it, and feel deeply the ingratitude shown; for--without boasting--I must say they
never had a truer friend than we; and one who always stood by them. When Hadjy wrote that foolish
brochure, who stood by him through thick and thin, but we? and our friendship for the children
will ever continue, but how can we ever feel at our ease with L. P. again? Guizot's conduct
is beyond all belief shameful, and so shabbily dishonest. Molé and Thiers both say he cannot
stand. It is the King's birthday to-day, but I thought it better not to write to him, for to
say fine words at this moment would be mockery. For my beloved Louise my heart bleeds; it is
so sad....

I must now conclude. Begging you to believe me, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 17th November 1846.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I yesterday received your long and interesting letter of the 14th. I would
much rather not say anything more about this truly unfortunate and painful Spanish business;
but in justice to myself I must make a few observations. You say that the King thinks me resentful;
this is extraordinary, for I have no such feeling; my feelings were and are deeply wounded
at the unhandsome and secret manner (so totally, in letter and in meaning, contrary to an entente
cordiale) in which this affair was settled, and in which the two marriages were incorporated.

What can I do?

The King and French Government never expressed regret at the sudden and unhandsome manner,
to say the least, in which they behaved to their best ally and friend, and we really cannot
admit that they have to forgive us for duping us!Why have they not tried to make some sort
of apology? What do I do, but remain silent for the present?

It is a sad affair, but resentment I have none whatever, and this accusation is a new version
of the affair.

With respect to Portugal, I refute most positively the unfounded accusations against us; we
cannot interfere in internal dissensions beyond ensuring the personal safety of the King, Queen,
and Royal Family. The Constitution may be, and I believe is, an unfortunate thing in those
Southern countries; but once it is established, the Queen must abide by it; but, unfortunately,
the coup de main in sending away Palmella's Government (which would inevitably have crumbled
to pieces of itself), was both unconstitutional and unsafe, and I fear they are in a much worse
position vis-à-vis of the country than they ever were.[27]

We are all going to-morrow to Osborne for four weeks. Ever your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 27: The Duke de Palmella's Ministry was abruptly
    dismissed by the Queen of Portugal on the 10th of October, in
    consequence of their inability to raise money on loan. Civil
    war broke out, Das Antas, Loulé, Fornos, and Sà da Bandeira
    being the chief rebel leaders. The British Fleet was ordered
    to the Tagus to support the Queen against her subjects, with
    the ulterior object of restoring Constitutional Government.]

[Pageheading: ETON MONTEM]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 19th November 1846.

... Lord John Russell breakfasted with Dr Hawtrey yesterday, and had much conversation with
him. He finds Dr Hawtrey strongly impressed with the evils of Montem, and he declared himself
as decidedly against its continuance. He thinks your Majesty would please the Etonians equally
by going to the boats once a year, which he said the late King was in the habit of doing. The
Chancellor of the Exchequer,[28] who was at Eton, wishes to see Montem abolished. Lord Morpeth
would prefer seeing it regulated. Upon the whole, Lord John Russell thinks it would not be
advisable for your Majesty to interpose your authority against the decided opinion of Dr Hawtrey,
the Provost, and the assistants.[29]

    [Footnote 28: Mr (who a few weeks later became Sir) Charles
    Wood.]

    [Footnote 29: Montem, the triennial Eton ceremony, the chief
    part of which took place at Salt Hill (ad montem), near
    Slough, was abolished in 1847.]

[Pageheading: A PENINSULAR MEDAL]

Queen Victoria to the Duke of Wellington.

OSBORNE, 25th November 1846.

The Queen has learned from various quarters that there still exists a great anxiety amongst
the officers and men who served under the Duke of Wellington's orders in the Peninsula to receive
and wear a medal as a testimony that they assisted the Duke in his great undertaking. The Queen
not only thinks this wish very reasonable, considering that for recent exploits of infinitely
inferior importance such distinctions have been granted by her, but she would feel personally
a great satisfaction in being enabled publicly to mark in this way her sense of the great services
the Duke of Wellington has rendered to his country and to empower many a brave soldier to wear
this token in remembrance of the Duke.

[Pageheading: THE DUKE'S VIEW]

The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria.

STRATHFIELDSAYE, 27th November 1846.

He has just now received your Majesty's most gracious commands from Osborne, dated the 26th
instant.

He does not doubt that many of the brave officers and soldiers who served in the armies in
the Peninsula under the command of the Duke are anxious to receive and wear a medal, struck
by command of the Sovereign, to commemorate the services performed in that seat of the late war.

Many of them have, upon more than one occasion, expressed such desire, in their letters addressed
to the Duke, in their petitions to Parliament, and, as the Duke has reason to believe, in petitions
presented to your Majesty.

Although the Duke has never omitted to avail himself of every occasion which offered to express
his deep sense of the meritorious services of the officers and soldiers of the Army which served
in the Peninsula, he did not consider it his duty to suggest to the Sovereign, under whose
auspices, or the Minister under whose direction the services in question were performed, any
particular mode in which those services of the Army should be recognised by the State.

Neither has he considered it his duty to submit such suggestion since the period at which the
services were performed, bearing in mind the various important considerations which must have
an influence upon the decision on such a question, which it was and is the duty of your Majesty's
confidential servants alone to take into consideration, and to decide.

Neither can the Duke of Wellington now venture to submit to your Majesty his sense of a comparison
of the services of the Army which served in the Peninsula, with those of other armies in other
parts of the world, whose recent services your Majesty has been most graciously pleased to
recognise by ordering that medals should be struck, to commemorate each of such services, one
of which to be delivered to each officer and soldier present, which your Majesty was graciously
pleased to permit him to wear.

Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington humbly solicits your Majesty, in grateful submission to
your Majesty upon the subject of the last paragraph of your Majesty's most gracious letter,
that, considering the favour with which his services were received and rewarded by the gracious
Sovereign, under whose auspices they were performed; the professional rank and the dignity
in the State to which he was raised, and the favour with which his services were then and have
been ever since received, that your Majesty would be graciously pleased to consider upon this
occasion only the well-founded claims upon your Majesty's attention of the officers and soldiers
who served in the Army in the Peninsula; and to consider him, as he considers himself, amply
rewarded for any service which he might have been instrumental in rendering; and desirous only
of opportunities of manifesting his gratitude for the favour and honour with which he has been
treated by his Sovereign.

All of which is humbly submitted to your Majesty by your Majesty's most dutiful and devoted
Servant and Subject,

WELLINGTON.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 28th November 1846.

The Queen has just received Lord Palmerston's draft to Mr Southern,[30] and must observe that
she does not quite approve the tone of it, as it will be likely only to irritate without producing
any effect. If our advice is to be taken, it must be given in a spirit of impartiality and
fairness. Lord Palmerston's despatch must give the impression that we entirely espouse the
cause of the rebels, whose conduct is, to say the least, illegal and very reprehensible. Lord
Palmerston likewise takes the nation and the Opposition to be one and the same thing. What
we must insist upon is a return to Constitutional Government. And what we may advise is a compromise
with the Opposition. What Ministry is to be formed ought to be left to the Portuguese themselves.
It being the 28th to-day, the Queen is afraid the despatch went already yesterday. The Queen
hopes in future that Lord Palmerston will not put it out of her power to state her opinion
in good time.

[Footnote 30: Secretary of Legation at Lisbon, and Chargé d'Affaires in the absence of Lord
Howard de Walden.]

[Pageheading: THE PENINSULAR MEDAL]

Queen Victoria to the Duke of Wellington.

ARUNDEL CASTLE, 1st December 1846.

The Queen has not yet acknowledged the Duke of Wellington's last letter.

She fully appreciates the delicacy of the Duke in not wishing to propose himself a step having
reference to his own achievements, but the Queen will not on that account forgo the satisfaction
of granting this medal as an acknowledgment on her part of those brilliant achievements.

The Queen has been assured by Lord John Russell that her confidential servants will be ready
to assume the responsibility of advising such a measure.

The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria.

ARUNDEL CASTLE, 2nd December 1846. He did not receive your Majesty's commands, dated the 1st
instant, in this Castle, till seven o'clock in the afternoon; and being under the necessity
of attending at [? Dover] in the evening, he has not had it in his power till this time to
express his acknowledgment of the receipt of them.

He submits to your Majesty that he has always been aware that it would be impolitic to confer
upon the officers and soldiers who served in the Peninsula the wished-for distinction without
the concurrence of your Majesty's confidential servants.

They alone can give the orders to carry into execution the measure, and can adopt means to
remedy any inconvenience which may result from it; and it is satisfactory to him to learn,
from the perusal of your Majesty's note, that Lord John Russell is disposed to adopt it, notwithstanding
that the Duke has no personal wish or feeling in the adoption of the measure, excepting to
see gratified the wishes of so many gallant officers and brave soldiers, who have so well served.

The few words which he addressed to your Majesty in his last letter of the 27th of November
in relation to himself, referred to the expressions in that of your Majesty of the 26th November,
to the Duke; from which it appeared to be your Majesty's intention "to empower many a brave
soldier to wear this token, in remembrance of the Duke."

Having stated to your Majesty that he would serve your Majesty, and would promote the objects
of your Majesty's Government, to the utmost of his power, he has faithfully performed his engagement,
as he believes, to the satisfaction of your Majesty's servants.

His whole life being devoted to your Majesty's service, he is most anxious to deserve and receive
your Majesty's approbation.

But he wishes that it should be conveyed only when it may be convenient to your Majesty's Government.
Your Majesty and your Majesty's servants must be the best judges upon this point, as well as
whether the medal in question shall be struck and granted at all or not.

If granted, or whatever may be the mode in which granted, or whether the Duke's name is recalled
to recollection or not, the Duke will be equally satisfied, and grateful for your Majesty's
gracious favour, and desirous to merit a continuance of it, by his devotion to your Majesty's
service.

All of which is humbly submitted by your Majesty's most dutiful Subject and most devoted Servant,

WELLINGTON.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S DECISION]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 14th December 1846.

The Queen has still to acknowledge Lord John Russell's letter of the 11th. She has carefully
read the Duke of Wellington's letter to Lord John, which evinces all the Duke's honourable
feelings. He should certainly be relieved from the appearance of having refused honours to
others, but agreed to the granting of them the moment it was intended to couple the measure
with an honour conferred upon himself. On the other hand, the Queen still wishes the step to
be taken as a means of doing honour to the Duke. His name should, therefore, certainly be connected
with it. The introduction of the names of other commanders, even of that of Sir John Moore,
the Queen does not think advisable. She does not quite understand from Lord John's letter whether
he proposes to adopt the Duke's recommendation to re-issue all the medals formerly granted,
or to adhere to the original idea of striking a new one. In the latter case, which appears
the most natural, the word "Peninsula" would cover all the campaigns, and in these the Duke
of Wellington had by far so much the greatest share that his name being introduced on all the
medals cannot be considered as anomalous.

[Pageheading: CRACOW]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 14th December 1846.

The Queen returns the enclosed private letters.[31] The view Lord Palmerston takes of the affair
of Cracow appears to the Queen a very sound one, and she would much wish to see the plan of
a conference realised against which Lord Ponsonby does not bring any very relevant reasons.
Prince Metternich's plan of a declaration "that the case is to be considered an exceptional
one and not to afford a precedent to other powers" is too absurd. The Prince very justly compared
it to the case of a person giving another a box on the ear and declaring at the same time that
he is to consider it as exceptional, and that it is in no way to afford him a precedent for
returning it. The Queen hopes the Cabinet will well consider the question, and contrive to
find means to prevent the evil consequences of the unjustifiable step against Cracow by speaking
out in time, before Russia or France may have decided on acts of further infraction of the
Treaty of Vienna. It seems quite clear that Russia was at the bottom of the measure relative
to Cracow, and it is therefore but reasonable to expect that she has an ulterior object in view.

    [Footnote 31: The first ill fruits of the disruption of the
    entente between England and France were seen in the active
    co-operation of Russia, Prussia, and Austria to destroy Polish
    independence. See ante, p. 72.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XVI

During the year 1847 the Parliament which had been elected in 1841 with a great Tory majority
was dissolved, and, as a result, the position of the Whig Ministry was slightly improved; but
they were still dependent on the support of Sir Robert Peel. A Factory Act limiting the labour
of women and children to ten hours a day was passed. An autumn session was rendered necessary
by an acute financial crisis, the Ministry having authorised the Bank of England to infringe
the provisions of the recent Bank Charter Act, and as a consequence being compelled to ask
Parliament for an indemnity. The knowledge of the Bank's authority to issue notes beyond the
prescribed limits was of itself sufficient to allay the panic. The Church of England was convulsed
by the promotion of Dr Hampden, whom Lord Melbourne had made Regius Professor of Divinity at
Oxford, to the See of Hereford; his orthodoxy was impugned in a memorial presented by thirteen
bishops to the Prime Minister, and an unsuccessful application was made to the Queen's Bench
(the Court being divided in opinion) to compel the Primate to hear objections to Dr Hampden's
consecration. The new House of Lords was used for the first time this year.

Perhaps the most important event in France was the cold-blooded murder of the Duchesse de Praslin
(daughter of Count Sebastiani, formerly French Ambassador in England) by her husband, an incident
which, like the Spanish intrigue of 1846, contributed subsequently to the downfall of the Orleanist
dynasty.

Switzerland was torn by internecine strife, partly owing to the existence, side by side, of
Catholic and Protestant cantons; the proposed expulsion of Jesuits and the formation of the
"Sonderbund" were the questions of the day. The latter was an offensive and defensive confederation
of seven cantons, and civil war raged round the question of its legality.

In Italy the death of Pope Gregory XVI. and the election of a more liberal successor induced
Lord John Russell to send his father-in-law, Lord Minto, the Lord Privy Seal, on a special
mission to the new Pope Pius IX., to encourage him in the path of Reform. But more violent
measures were in progress, and it was soon clear that Lombardy and Venetia were rising against
Austria, and the way being paved for the Unity of Italy.

Spain was in a ferment, frequent changes of Ministry taking place, and the miserable marriage
of the Queen having all the evil results anticipated in England. Portugal continued in a state
of civil war, the British attempting to mediate, but the revolutionary Junta refused to abide
by their terms, and ultimately armed intervention became necessary.

CHAPTER XVI

1847

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 7th January 1847.

The turn which the Portuguese affairs are now likely to take is really very satisfactory. The
Queen is sure that the Court will not allow violent measures of revenge to be taken against
the vanquished party nor the overthrow of a Constitutional Government; but the Queen of Portugal
will have to punish those who have broken their oath of allegiance, and will have to remove
from the country those who would infallibly ere long plunge the country afresh into those horrors
from which it is just emerging. The further infusion of democracy into the Charter would at
this moment be quite misplaced, but this opportunity should be taken by the Queen of Portugal
to establish a state of legality and security, by compelling any new Ministry to lay the accounts
every year before the Cortes (which has not been done for the last ten years, either by Progressistas,
Septembristas, or others), by establishing irremovable judges, and appointing thereto incorruptible
persons, by honestly and fairly distributing the patronage in the Army--apart from the party--which
will now be possible as the King has the command himself, and by adopting such measures of
internal improvement as will promote the material welfare of the people.

These are the principles which the Queen would wish to see her representative urge upon the
Portuguese Court and Government, and she has no doubt that they are in perfect conformity with
Lord John Russell's own views. The Queen cannot help repeating that the tone and bearing of
Mr Southern are more those of a Portuguese Demagogue than of an English Representative.

[Pageheading: A CONCILIATORY POLICY]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

TUILERIES, 15th January 1847.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am truly happy to learn what you say about your feelings on those troublesome
politics; I can assure you that many people who are, in fact, quite indifferent to politics,
renchérissent in expressions of dislike and contempt seulement, because they believe that you
have those opinions. Many wise people repeat sayings which they assume to come from your own
mouth, such, for instance, "that Louis Philippe could never be trusted, being, after all, an
old fox," etc.

The King's Speech was as unobjectionable as possible. I trust that there will be no bitterness
in yours. It is as much, if not more, in the interest of Great Britain to keep France quiet
and continuing a peaceable policy than in that of France. France, as the old Duke once said
with great truth, has been already under water several times, what could be spoiled has been
spoiled, what remains is pretty solid. To attack France in France would lead to the most dangerous
consequences. In general, if we get once a great war again you will be sure to have everywhere
revolutions, and to imagine that you will escape in England all reactions would be a grievous
mistake. When one looks to the changes, brought about in England in consequence of the Revolution
of July, one is quite astounded. Here they changed nothing but the dynasty, in England the
very spirit of the old Monarchy has been abolished, and what will be, in the course of time,
the consequences, it is not easy to tell. A bad Constitution acts strongly on the people. Look
to America, even to Belgium. Ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND PORTUGAL]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 14th February 1847.

Lord John Russell's memorandum contains two different questions. The one is this: how far the
interests of England require an interference in the affairs of Portugal for the restoration
of peace in that country and the preservation of its Throne, and how far England is bound by
existing treaties to interfere.

As to this question, it appears from Lord John's memorandum that the ancient treaties having
reference to foreign invasion only are inapplicable to the present case, that the Quadruple
Treaty would revive on the appearance of Dom Miguel in Portugal, that an understanding with
Spain ought to be come to for its execution, but Lord John does not make any specific proposal.

The other question is, what wrongs the Queen, the Ministers, and the rebels may have done to
bring about the present state of affairs. This the Queen conceives can only be decided by a
most minute, impartial, and anxious scrutiny. She indignantly rejects the notion to leave this
decision to Mr Southern.... Lord John's statement contains, however, nothing but the echo of
his reports.

Lord John will upon reflection admit that to say "that recent events exhibit a spirit of tyranny
and cruelty in the Portuguese Government without a parallel in any part of Europe," there,
where not one execution has taken place, is rather a strong expression.

That the cruelties and miseries inseparable from a Civil War are to be deplored, there can
be no doubt of, and it is in order to stop a further continuance and perhaps aggravation of
these horrors, that the Queen is so anxious to see the struggle brought to an early termination.

The Queen hopes to see Lord John to-morrow at three o'clock, when she hopes that he will be
able to submit a definitive step.

[Page Heading: ENGLAND AND PORTUGAL]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

14th March 1847.

The Queen wishes again to call Lord John Russell's serious attention to the state of Spain
and Portugal, and to the policy which has been pursued with regard to them, and the result
of this policy. In Spain we have taken up the cause of the Progressistas, and what has been
the consequence? They desert us.

We have no longer the slightest influence in that country; France has it all her own way, and
we shall see the Cortes confirm the succession of the Infanta and her children without being
able to prevent it. Of the Progressistas, on whom Lord Palmerston, Lord Clarendon, and others
always placed their hopes, Mr Bulwer says now: "The fact is, that though they are the party
least servile to France, they are the most impracticable party, and belonging to a lower class
of society, who have not the same feelings of honourable and gentlemanlike conduct which sometimes
guide a portion, though a very small one, of their opponents."

In Spain therefore it is, the Queen fears, too late; but let us not throw away this lesson,
and, if it is still possible, not also lose Portugal. Our influence there is fast going, and
Sir H. Seymour[1] confirms what every one but Mr Southern has stated for the last two months,
viz. that we are believed to be favourable to the rebels; consequently, that no advice of ours
will be listened to. Sir H. Seymour further says: "I should have been glad to have gained a
little time, and not at the outset of my mission to be obliged to call the Government to account
upon various scores. Your orders, however, leave me no option, and I shall be obliged to administer
a series of reproofs which will, I fear, confirm the notion as to our unfriendly feelings."
This is the course the Queen thinks so very unfortunate; trifles about two horses, the beating
of a gardener of Lord Howard's by some soldiers on a march in times of Civil War, etc., are
made topics of serious complaint. Most peremptory notes are written, threatening the Government
with our men-of-war, whilst it is held to be unwise to threaten the insurgents.

Then, the Court is told to believe our feelings of attachment for them!

Sir H. Seymour says that his position is rendered very difficult in consequence. We have now
the results before us. Let us, therefore, before Portugal, our ancient ally, turns also away
from us, and leans to France or Spain in preference, as she must, if we give her such doubtful
support, try to pursue a more conciliatory course; these peremptory and dictatory notes, these
constant complaints, produce the worst and most unfortunate effect.

These very Septembristas have been always the greatest enemies of England, and would be the
first to turn against us should they succeed.

There should more latitude be given to the resident Minister not to press things at moments
when they produce embarrassment to a Government already tottering, but to give him the option
of waiting for a fit opportunity, and for the manner in which it is to be done, which a person
on the spot can be a better judge of than we can in England.

Once more the Queen earnestly warns Lord John of the imminent danger of England losing all
legitimate influence in Portugal, which ought now, more than ever, to be of the greatest importance
to us.

Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your Majesty. Lord John Russell thinks it right
to state to your Majesty that the prevailing opinion in the Cabinet is that when the necessary
business in the House of Commons has been finished, a Dissolution of Parliament should take place.

This course would be conformable to the usage from the passing of the Septennial Act till 1830.
From 1830 to the present year no House of Commons has been allowed to continue six years. The
Dissolutions of Lord Grey in 1831 and 1832, of Sir Robert Peel in 1834, the death of William
the Fourth in 1837, Lord Melbourne's Dissolution in 1841, have all interrupted the natural
life of Parliaments. But all Governments since the accession of the House of Hanover have been
of opinion (with one or two exceptions) that it is hazardous to allow a Parliament to continue
seven years, as circumstances may arise making a Dissolution very detrimental to the public
welfare.

These being general considerations, Lord John Russell would reserve any decision on the subject
till the moment shall arrive when a Dissolution may appear to your Majesty's advisers to be
the course most likely to secure moderate and fair elections.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

25th March 1847.

The Queen with pleasure approves the appointment of Lord Clarendon's brother to the vacant
stall at St Paul's. The Queen would, however, draw Lord John's attention generally to the mode
of filling up those Church sinecures. She is quite aware how necessary it is for a Minister
to be able to recommend to such places persons of political connections, but she thinks that
where it can be done, it would be of great use both to the Church and the country to give these
places of emolument to Churchmen distinguished for their scientific attainments, who have neither
the means nor the time to prosecute their researches, whilst their labours might be of the
greatest importance to the country. Such person of this kind, for instance, the Prince thinks,
is a Mr Cureton, who has just published the real epistles of St Ignatius, which he translated
from the Syriac, and is about to produce a Gospel of St Matthew which is considered the undoubted
original in the Coptic dialect, and other most important documents lately acquired for the
British Museum.

[Page Heading: FOREIGN OFFICE DRAFTS]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 17th April 1847.

The Queen has several times asked Lord Palmerston, through Lord John Russell and personally,
to see that the drafts to our Foreign Ministers are not despatched previous to their being
submitted to the Queen. Notwithstanding, this is still done, as for instance to-day with regard
to the drafts for Lisbon. The Queen, therefore, once more repeats her desire that Lord Palmerston
should prevent the recurrence of this practice.

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 18th May 1847.

Lord John Russell has the painful duty of announcing to your Majesty the death of the Earl
of Bessborough.[3] The firmness and kindness of his temper, together with his intimate knowledge
of Ireland and his sound judgment, make this event a public misfortune.

It appears to Lord John Russell very desirable that his successor should be named without loss
of time, and as the Cabinet agreed yesterday that the Earl of Clarendon was the fittest person
for the office, Lord John Russell would suggest that a Council should be held on Thursday next,
at the hour your Majesty may appoint, for a Council for the purpose of the declaration of your
Majesty's pleasure.

It was the opinion of the Cabinet that although it is advisable finally to abolish the office
of Lord-Lieutenant, it is not advisable to propose any measure, or make any announcement for
the present.

    [Footnote 3: John William, formerly Lord Duncannon, 4th Earl,
    born 1781; Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland.]

[Pageheading: JENNY LIND]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 12th June 1847.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--We are here in terrible hot water, though I think we shall get out of it.[4]
But only think that the Radicals and Protectionists join to attack Government for our interference
in Portugal! A change of Government on such a subject would be full of mischief for the future,
independent of the great momentary inconvenience; but it would cripple all future Governments
in their future conduct respecting Foreign Affairs, would create distrust abroad in our promises,
and is totally contrary to England's ancient policy of upholding Portugal.

In short, it would be very bad. The old Duke will do every thing to set matters right.

To-night we are going to the Opera in state, and will hear and see Jenny Lind[5] (who is perfection)
in Norma, which is considered one of her best parts. Poor Grisi is quite going off, and after
the pure angelic voice and extremely quiet, perfect acting of J. Lind, she seems quite passée.
Poor thing! she is quite furious about it, and was excessively impertinent to J. Lind.

To-morrow we go to a ball at Stafford House, and on Thursday to one at Gloucester House. Ever
your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 4: The Government were severely attacked by
    a coalition of Radicals and Protectionists for their
    intervention in Portugal. A hostile motion of Lord Stanley's
    in the House of Lords was opposed by the Duke of Wellington
    and defeated, while one of Mr Hume's in the House of Commons
    was talked out, Sir Robert Peel supporting the Ministry.]

    [Footnote 5: She made her début in London on the 4th of
    May in Roberto il Diavolo. The Queen had heard her sing
    previously at Stolzenfels. In May 1849, after singing for two
    years to enthusiastic audiences, she retired from the stage,
    and made extended concert tours in Europe and America.]

[Pageheading: THE WELLINGTON STATUE]

The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria.

LONDON, 12th July 1847. He submits to your Majesty the expression of his sorrow and shame that
your Majesty should be troubled for a moment by anything so insignificant as a statue of himself.

When he first heard of the intention to remove the statue from the pedestal on which it had
been placed, he was apprehensive that the measure might be misconstrued and misrepresented
in this country as well as abroad.

That feeling was increased when the probable existence of such misconstruction was adverted
to in one of the printed papers circulated by the Committee for the erection of the statue;
and still farther when the removal became the subject of repeated discussions in Parliament.
His daily experience of your Majesty's gracious reception of his endeavours to serve your Majesty;
and the events of every day, and the repeated marks which he received of your Majesty's consideration
and favour proved clearly, as the Duke stated in his letter to Lord John Russell, that there
was no foundation for the misconstruction of the intended act--which undoubtedly existed. The
apprehension of such misconstruction had from the first moment created an anxious wish in the
mind of the Duke that the removal should be so regulated and should be attended by such circumstances
as would tend to relieve the transaction from the erroneous but inconvenient impression which
had been created.

The Duke apprehended that he might find it impossible to perform the duties with which he had
been entrusted, and therefore, when Lord John Russell wrote to him, he deprecated the measure
in contemplation; and he rejoices sincerely that your Majesty has been most graciously pleased
to countermand the order for the removal of the statue.

    And again, on the 14th of June 1847, the Duke wrote to
    Croker:--"It has always been my practice, and is my invariable
    habit, to say nothing about myself and my own actions.

    "More than forty years ago Mr Pitt observed that I talked
    as little of myself or my own acts as if I had been an
    assistant-surgeon of the army....

    "I follow the habit of avoiding to talk of myself and of what
    I have done; with the exception only of occasions when I am
    urging upon modern contemporaries measures which they don't
    like, and when I tell them I have some experience, and
    have had some success in these affairs, and feel they would
    experience the benefit of attending to my advice, I never talk
    of myself.

    "These are the reasons for which they think that I don't care
    what they do with the statue.

    "But they must be idiots to suppose it possible that a man who
    is working day and night, without any object in view excepting
    the public benefit, will not be sensible of a disgrace
    inflicted upon him by the Sovereign and Government whom he is
    serving. The ridicule will be felt, if nothing else is!"...]

Queen Victoria to Lord Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 12th July 1847.

The Queen has been informed by Lord John Russell that the Duke of Wellington is apprehensive
that the removal of his statue from the Arch to another pedestal might be construed as a mark
of displeasure on her part. Although the Queen had hoped that her esteem and friendship for
the Duke was so well known to the public in general as not to render such a construction possible,
and although she had thought that another pedestal would have been more suitable for this statue,
and that the Arch might have been more becomingly ornamented in honour of the Duke than by
the statue now upon it, she has given immediate direction that the Statue should remain in
its present situation, and only regrets that this monument should be so unworthy of the great
personage to whose honour it has been erected.

[Pageheading: INDIAN AFFAIRS]

Viscount Hardinge to Queen Victoria.

27th July 1847.

Lord Hardinge, with his most humble duty to your Majesty, humbly acknowledges the letter in
which your Majesty has been graciously pleased to approve of his conduct in the Government
of your Majesty's Eastern Empire, and to sanction his return to Europe the end of this year.

It will always be a source of happiness to Lord Hardinge to have contributed his efforts towards
maintaining the stability of your Majesty's Indian possessions committed to his charge, and
he feels, in the performance of these duties, that the approbation of his Sovereign is the
most grateful distinction to which honourable ambition can aspire.

The Governor-General entertains the most sanguine expectations that peace has been securely
established beyond the north-west frontiers, as well as throughout India, and in this confidence
he has ordered nearly 50,000 men of the native force to be reduced, which reductions have caused
no discontent, being for the most part voluntary on the part of the men and accompanied by
gratuities in proportion to the service performed.

As regards internal dangers, there is no native power remaining able to face a British army
in the field. The people are very generally engaged in trade and agriculture, and to a great
extent in the British Provinces no longer carry arms. Confidence in the protection of the Government
has superseded the necessity. Formerly trade and wealth were concentrated in a few large cities--and
Indian manufactures have been ruined by cheaper goods sent from England; but wealth and comfort
have, under British rule, been more extensively diffused through the agricultural districts,
and all classes, including the warlike tribes, are becoming more devoted to the happier and
safer pursuits of peace.

In this state of things Lord Hardinge entertains a very confident expectation that the Government
of India, by judicious attention to the native army in time of peace--which may have its peculiar
dangers--will maintain due subordination in its ranks; and by abstaining from all interference
in the religious prejudices of the people, will secure their loyal attachment to your Majesty,
and their willing obedience to the Governor acting in your Majesty's behalf.

Lord Hardinge has the honour to subscribe himself your Majesty's most humble and dutiful Subject
and Servant,

HARDINGE.

[Pageheading: A GENERAL ELECTION]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

PEMBROKE LODGE, 5th August 1847.

The Liberal gains, upon the whole, have been upwards of thirty, and when the elections are
concluded will probably be upwards of forty.

The rejection of so distinguished a man as Mr Macaulay[7] is the most disgraceful act in the
whole election. It has only a parallel in the rejection of Mr Burke by the city of Bristol.

The result of the whole elections will be, even if Sir George Grey is defeated in Northumberland,
that neither Lord John Russell or any other Minister will have the command of a regular party
majority.

But it is probable that Government will be sufficiently strong to resist both a reaction against
free trade, and any democratic movement against the Church or the aristocracy.

    [Footnote 7: In consequence of his vote on Maynooth. The poem
    he wrote on the present occasion will be remembered.]

[Pageheading: THE IRISH ELECTIONS]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

PEMBROKE LODGE, 21st August 1847.

To save his feelings on this subject (Lord Fitzwilliam having the first Wentworth Earl of Strafford's
property), Lord John Russell would humbly propose that Lord Strafford should be created Earl
of Middlesex.

But as the relations of the late Duke of Dorset might also object, Lord John Russell will adhere
to his original proposal if your Majesty should deem it best.

In fact, many titles have been given in succession to different families. Leinster, Orford,
Westmorland, are familiar instances.

Lord John Russell has drawn up a paper respecting the Irish elections, on which the Prince
wished to have his remarks. The subject is a dark and a dreary one....

Changes of Ministry may occur, but it is to be hoped that your Majesty may be enabled to keep
the present Parliament for five or six years. For nothing tends so much to favour such reformations,
to impede sober improvements, and to make members stand in servile awe of their constituents,
as frequent General Elections.

Lord John Russell is happy to see in the newspapers the successful progress of your Majesty's
journey. It has occurred to Lord John Russell that as the harvest is very promising, and the
election heats will have subsided, it may be desirable that your Majesty should go for three
days to Ireland on your Majesty's return. The want of notice might in some respects be favourable,
and would be an excuse to many Irish peers, who might otherwise complete their ruin in preparations.

Queen Victoria to Earl Fitzwilliam.

3rd September 1847.

The Queen has received Lord Fitzwilliam's letter of the 31st.[8] As she sees Lord Strafford's
elevation to an Earldom already announced in the Gazette of the same day, it will be impossible
for the Queen to have the question of Lord Fitzwilliam's adverse claim reconsidered. She thinks
it right, however, to say, that, knowing that the Wentworth property came to Lord Fitzwilliam,
it was only after the Heralds College had proved that Lord Strafford was the representative
of the Earl of Strafford of the Second Creation, whilst Lord Fitzwilliam was not properly considered
the representative of the first, that the Queen approved the selection of the title of Earl
of Strafford for the present Lord. The Queen is very sorry to find that this step should have
been annoying to Lord Fitzwilliam, for whom she has ever entertained a sincere regard. She
has sent his letter on to Lord John Russell.

    [Footnote 8: On John, Baron Strafford, who as Sir John Byng
    had been distinguished in the Peninsula and at Waterloo,
    receiving the Earldom of Strafford, Lord Fitzwilliam had
    written: "Your Majesty has, undoubtedly, the power of
    conferring this, or any other titular dignity, according to
    your good pleasure, but I venture to hope that, if it be your
    Majesty's pleasure to revive the Earldom of Strafford, it will
    not be bestowed upon any other person than the individual who
    has now the honour of addressing your Majesty.

    "The name and history of the first Earl of Strafford is, of
    course, familiar to your Majesty, and I venture to conclude
    that your Majesty is not unaware of my being his descendant,
    his heir, and his successor. I own his lands, I dwell in his
    house, I possess his papers, and, if neither my father nor
    myself have ever applied to the Crown for a renewal of his
    titles, it has not been because either of us was indifferent
    to those honours or to the favour of the Sovereign, but
    because we were well aware of the embarrassment which
    such applications frequently occasion to the Crown and its
    advisers."]

[Pageheading: MISSION TO THE VATICAN]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

ARDVERIKIE, 3rd September 1847.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's two letters of the 31st and 1st inst., and is glad
to find that the views expressed in the Prince's Memorandum coincide with those entertained
by Lord John and Lord Palmerston, and also by Lord Minto, as she infers. As it seems difficult
to find a person of inferior rank and position than Lord Minto, and of equal weight, the Queen
sanctions his undertaking the mission on the understanding that the object of it will be communicated
beforehand to the Courts of Vienna and Paris, and that both these Governments will be made
fully acquainted with the position England thinks herself bound to take with regard to the
Italian controversy.[9] After this shall have been done, the sending of Sir William Parker
with his fleet to the West Coast of Italy strikes the Queen as a very proper measure to give
countenance to the Sovereigns engaged in Liberal Reform, and exposed alike to the inroads of
their absolutist neighbour, and to the outbreaks of popular movements directed by a republican
party, and perhaps fostered by the Austrian Government.

    [Footnote 9: Lord John Russell proposed that Lord Minto
    should be sent on a special mission to the Vatican. See
    Introductory Note for the Year, ante, p. 115.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

ARDVERIKIE, 7th September 1847.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I thank you much for your kind letter of the 28th. Mamma writes me such
a good report of you both, which gives us the greatest pleasure. I hope you like young Ernest?
This horrid Praslin tragedy [10] is a subject one cannot get out of one's head. The Government
can in no way be accused of these murders, but there is no doubt that the standard of morality
is very low indeed, in France, and that the higher classes are extremely unprincipled. This
must shake the security and prosperity of a nation. In my opinion, nothing has gone on so well
since the unfortunate false move of the Spanish marriages, and I think you will admit que cela
n'a pas porté bonheur au Roi. I am very anxious to explain that I was out of spirits, and,
I fear, humour, when I wrote to you last, for I love this place dearly, and the quiet, simple
and wild life we lead here, particularly, in spite of the abominable weather we have had; and
I am not the enemy of La Chasse, as I expressed myself--on the contrary, I am very keen about
it, and am only annoyed at being unable to see it all. Really, when one thinks of the very
dull life, and particularly the life of constant self-denial, which my poor, dear Albert leads,
he deserves every amusement in the world, and even about his amusements he is so accommodating
that I am deeply touched by it. He is very fond of shooting, but it is all with the greatest
moderation. Do you know that you never wished Albert joy of his birthday?

The state of politics in Europe is very critical, and one feels very anxious for the future.

With my dearest Albert's love, and mine, to my beloved Louise. Believe me, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 10: The sensational murder in Paris of the Duchesse
    de Praslin, daughter of the diplomatist, Sebastiani, by her
    husband, who committed suicide. This event, as well as the
    affair of the Spanish marriages, largely contributed to the
    Orleanist catastrophe of 1848, for it was suspected that
    the Court and the police had not merely connived at, but had
    actually furnished the means for, the Duke's suicide, in order
    to prevent certain exposures which would have resulted from
    his trial.]

[Pageheading: PORTUGAL]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 9th October 1847.

The Queen has just received these drafts, which she has read attentively, and thinks very proper;
she only perceives one omission which should be rectified, viz. the one in which Lord Palmerston
directs Sir H. Seymour and the Admiral to remain perfectly neutral in case of a conflict, and
that is that our Fleet should naturally give protection to the persons of the King and Queen
and Royal Family in case of danger, for we cannot allow them to be murdered, even if we should
not be able to prevent their losing their Crown (which God forbid).

The Queen must again observe that the drafts have since some weeks past been sent to her after
they were gone, so that she can make no remark upon them. The Queen wishes to have copies of
these drafts.

[Pageheading: CRISIS IN THE CITY]

[Pageheading: MR COBDEN]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. He has seen the Governor (Mr Morris) and Deputy-Governor
(Mr Prescott) of the Bank, Mr Jones Loyd[11] and Mr Newman. Sir Charles Wood has seen many
others connected with the City, and they have both made statements to the Cabinet.

The general result is: That an unsound state of trade has prevailed for some time.

More failures may be expected.[12]

The funds may fall still lower.

Any interference by Government in the way of issuing more notes might postpone but would aggravate
the distress.

The railway calls add much to the present difficulty.

No forcible interference with railways would be justifiable, but a voluntary postponement of
the execution of their Acts might be proposed to Parliament.

It will be seen by this short summary that the persons who by official position, practical
experience, and much reflection are most capable of giving an opinion think that little or
nothing can be done by Parliament or by Government.

It is one of those revulsions in trade which take place periodically, increased in extent by
the expansion of commerce, but controlled in its operation by the sound principles of currency
which have lately prevailed.

The Act of 1844 is generally blamed, but without the least reason. The accommodation afforded
by the Bank has been large, liberal, and continuous. The circulation of notes approaches nineteen
millions.

Upon fully considering the difficulty of finding a person of ability and experience to place
at the head of the Poor Law Commission, Lord John Russell has come to the conclusion that the
best course he can take is to propose to Mr Cobden to accept the Presidency with a seat in
the Cabinet, and to propose to the Duke of Bedford at the same time a seat in the Cabinet without
office.

Various reasons for making this offer to Mr Cobden will occur to your Majesty. His ability,
his popularity with the working classes, and his knowledge of sound principles of political
economy are undoubted. Sir Robert Peel's tribute to him has raised him both on the Continent
and in this country, so that his presence in the Cabinet would give satisfaction to many.

On the other hand, the landed nobility and gentry would be glad to see the Duke of Bedford
take part in the deliberations of the Government.

With your Majesty's permission Lord John Russell will propose these arrangements to the Cabinet
to-morrow.

He has sent for Mr Lee[13] to offer him the Bishopric of Manchester. It is with great regret
he states that Mr Stephen[14] is obliged from ill health to retire from the Colonial Office.
He has asked Lord Grey to be made a Privy Councillor, having received an assurance from Lord
Stanley that Sir Robert Peel would propose it to your Majesty on his retirement. Lord John
Russell submits the proposal to your Majesty as an honour due to Mr Stephen's long, able, and
calumniated[15] public services.

Lord John Russell has the honour to submit a letter of Lord Clarendon's in reference to a Memorandum
of His Royal Highness Prince Albert.

Lord John Russell thinks that in the present state of affairs, the abolition of the Lord-Lieutenancy
must not be thought of, and that with the exception noticed by Lord Clarendon, the suggestions
made by the Prince would be the best measures for adoption, when that event takes place.

It is possible the Prince may not have a copy of the Memorandum.

    [Footnote 11: Afterwards Lord Overstone.]

    [Footnote 12: There had been many failures in London,
    Liverpool, and elsewhere.]

    [Footnote 13: James Prince Lee, then Headmaster of King
    Edward's School, Birmingham, Bishop of Manchester, 1847-1869.]

    [Footnote 14: James Stephen, Under-Secretary for the
    Colonies, 1836-1847, afterwards Professor of Modern History at
    Cambridge.]

    [Footnote 15: He had made enemies by supporting the abolition
    of slavery.]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 14th October 1847.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's letter, bringing several very important subjects
before her. She regrets that the state of the Money Market should still be so uncomfortable,
but is sure that the Government cannot by any interference do much to mend matters, though
it might easily render them still more complicated, and make itself responsible for a crisis,
which it has in no way either brought on or been able to avert.[16]

As to Mr Cobden's appointment to the Poor Law Board, the Queen thinks that he will be well
qualified for the place in many respects, and that it will be advantageous to the Government
and the Country that his talents should be secured to the service of the State, but the elevation
to the Cabinet directly from Covent Garden[17] strikes her as a very sudden step, calculated
to cause much dissatisfaction in many quarters, and setting a dangerous example to agitators
in general (for his main reputation Mr Cobden gained as a successful agitator). The Queen therefore
thinks it best that Mr Cobden should first enter the service of the Crown, serve as a public
functionary in Parliament, and be promoted subsequently to the Cabinet, which step will then
become a very natural one.

The Duke of Bedford's entrance into the Cabinet the Queen would see with great pleasure.

The Queen returns the Prince's Memorandum to Lord John, whilst she has retained Lord Clarendon's
letter upon it, which the Prince is anxious to keep if Lord John will allow him. The Queen
must agree with Lord John and Lord Clarendon that the present moment is not a favourable one
for the experiment of abolishing the Lord-Lieutenancy.

Mr Stephen's elevation to the Privy Council will be a very proper reward for his long and faithful
services. Would he not be a proper person for one of the new Civil degrees of the Bath?[18]

    [Footnote 16: Matters, however, became worse, and Lord John
    Russell and Sir Charles Wood wrote recommending that the Bank
    should enlarge their discounts and advances, for which they
    would propose a bill of indemnity. By degrees the panic
    subsided.]

    [Footnote 17: Free Trade meetings had taken place in Covent
    Garden Theatre.]

    [Footnote 18: He was made a K.C.B.]

[Pageheading: ENGLAND'S FOREIGN POLICY]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 18th October 1847.

The Queen cannot resist drawing Lord John Russell's attention to the enclosed paragraph taken
from the Revue des Deux Mondes, which gives an account of the late events in Spain. How little
honourable our line of policy appears according to this version, which the Queen is afraid
is so very plausible that it will be received as the truth by the whole French public and a
great part of the European public at large! It is, no doubt, perverted, but still the Queen
must admit that our policy, and especially Mr Bulwer's conduct at Madrid, lays itself open
to similar construction. After the gross duplicity and immorality which characterised the conduct
of France with respect to the Spanish marriages, though she had all the profit and we all the
loss, still we had a very strong position on the side of integrity, morality, and honour. The
Queen is afraid that the diplomatic intrigues and counter intrigues at Madrid have made us
lose daily more of that advantageous position without any compensation on the other side. The
Queen entreats Lord John Russell not to underrate the importance of keeping our foreign policy
beyond reproach. Public opinion is recognised as a ruling power in our domestic affairs; it
is not of less importance in the society of Europe with reference to the conduct of an individual
state. To possess the confidence of Europe is of the utmost importance to this country. That
is the reason why the Queen is uneasy about our dealings in Greece, and anxious that we should
not be misunderstood with respect to Italy. The Queen is sorry to perceive that the French
complain of unfair dealing on our part with reference to the negotiations in the River Plate.[19]
Have they any right to do so? Have Lord Howden's private instructions been at variance in any
way with the public instructions which had been agreed upon with the French Government? The
Queen would consider any advantage gained at the expense of an ally as a loss.

    [Footnote 19: Sir John Hobart Caradoc, second Lord Howden,
    British Minister at Rio Janeiro, was, together with Count
    Walewski, the French Minister there, engaged in a special
    mission to the River Plate and Uruguay; Buenos Ayres was
    blockaded by the British Fleet.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN OF SPAIN]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 24th October 1847.

The Queen has perused with eagerness Mr Bulwer's accounts of the late extraordinary events
in Spain, but must confess that she has in vain looked for an explanation of the real motives
and causes of the crisis. Has Lord Palmerston received any private letters throwing more light
upon the matter? There seems to prevail the greatest mystery about the affair. Is the Queen
reconciled with her husband? Has she sent for him? Have all the accounts of her hatred for
Don Francisco and the Queen-Mother been false? All these questions are unanswered.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN OF PORTUGAL]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 30th October 1847.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has many apologies to make
for not having attended your Majesty's Council to-day, and the more so as his absence arose
from an inadvertence which he is almost ashamed to mention. But having got on horseback to
ride to the station, with his thoughts occupied with some matters which he was thinking of,
he rode mechanically and in a fit of absence to the Nine Elms Station,[20] and did not recollect
his mistake till he had got there; and although he made the best of his way afterwards to the
Paddington Station, he could not get there in time for any train that would have taken him
early enough to Windsor.

Viscount Palmerston received this morning your Majesty's remarks upon his proposed drafts to
Sir Hamilton Seymour, and has modified some of the expressions in those drafts; but those drafts
are only private and confidential answers in his own name to private and confidential communications
from Sir Hamilton Seymour, and they express only his own personal opinions, and not those of
the Government.

Viscount Palmerston is sorry to say that the circumstances lately mentioned by Sir Hamilton
Seymour, coupled with the course pursued at Lisbon almost ever since the successful interference
of the Allied Powers, have brought Viscount Palmerston to the painful convictions expressed
in the above-mentioned drafts, and he feels desirous, for his own sake, to place those convictions
at least upon record in this Office. He will be most happy to find that he is mistaken, and
will most truly and heartily rejoice if events should prove that the confidence which your
Majesty reposes in the sincerity and good faith of the Queen of Portugal is well founded; but
in a matter of this importance Viscount Palmerston feels that it is his bounden duty to your
Majesty not to conceal his opinions, even though they should, as in the present case, unfortunately
differ from those which your Majesty entertains.

    [Footnote 20: The former terminus of the London and
    South-Western Railway.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 21st October 1847.

The Queen acknowledges Lord Palmerston's letter of yesterday. She can have no objections to
Lord Palmerston's putting on record his opinion that the Queen of Portugal is leaning to the
Chartist Party, and exposing herself, her Throne and country, to great danger by so doing;
but she would much deprecate the putting on record the grave accusation "that the Queen of
Portugal is in a secret and perfect understanding with the Cabrals,"[21] which is really not
warranted by the facts of the case, and is likely to mislead both our Government and the Minister
at Lisbon. Since the Queen wrote yesterday the Prince received a letter from the King of Portugal
(which he sent to Lord Palmerston), and which quite explains the position and views of the
Court: we must not forget either that Sir Hamilton Seymour acknowledges that a change of Ministry
at this moment would provoke a fresh Revolution at Lisbon. Although this would come from the
Cabralists, the Queen of Portugal very naturally may not feel inclined to run that risk to
avoid a danger the existence of which she does not see or comprehend.

    [Footnote 21: The Ministry in which Castro Cabral had been
    Premier, and his brother, José, Minister of Justice, had
    resigned in May 1846.]

[Pageheading: THE HAMPDEN CONTROVERSY]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. The Bishop of Hereford is a man of sound information,
good judgment, and business habits. It is of such consequence to have an Archbishop of York,
who will, like the late Archbishop, avoid quarrels and crotchets, and live peaceably with all men.

Should your Majesty approve, he would then submit the name of Dr Hampden to be the new Bishop,
and that of the Bishop of Oxford[22] as Queen's Almoner.

    [Footnote 22: Samuel Wilberforce.]

The Bishop of Oxford to Mr Anson.

16th November 1847.

MY DEAR ANSON,--I enclose you a letter from Lord John Russell, offering me the Lord Almonership.
I have ventured to write direct to Her Majesty, to express to her my grateful feelings at this
notice of me. But I have been so afraid of offending by anything like freedom of expression
that I much fear I have instead said coldly and formally what, if I had said it naturally,
would have expressed the deepest and most exuberant feelings of what I trust I may venture
to say is not an ungrateful heart. Ungrateful it would be most certainly if it did not feel
to its deepest core the uniform and great kindness I have received now for so many years from
Her Majesty and from the Prince. I wish I could better show them my feelings....

You have read no doubt the Times article on Dr Hampden. I am afraid it is too true. I cannot
conceive what was Dr Hampden's recommendation. He was not a persecuted man, for he had got
a station far higher than he ever dreamed of already; he is not an able, or an active man,
or one popular with any party, and unless Lord John Russell wished for an opportunity of shocking
the young confidence of the Church in him, I cannot conceive why he should have made it. I
deeply lament it. Pray let me hear of your health, if it be only a single line (to Cuddesdon),
and believe me to be, ever your truly affectionate,

S. OXON.

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON'S DESPATCHES]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

17th November 1847.

The Queen has been struck by the concluding passage of the accompanying draft to Mr Bulwer.
It gives an official declaration of the views of England with respect to a point of the greatest
gravity and importance, and upon which the Queen apprehends that the mind of the Cabinet is
not yet made up. The Queen herself has come to no determination upon it, and it may involve
the question of peace or war. Surely our line of policy under future and uncertain contingencies
ought not to be pledged beforehand and in such an indirect way. The Queen wishes Lord Palmerston
to speak to Lord John Russell upon the subject, and to show him the draft and these remarks
of the Queen upon it.

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 17th November 1847.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and in compliance with your Majesty's
wishes he has omitted the whole of the latter part of the proposed despatch to Mr Bulwer.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

(Undated.)

The Queen has seen with surprise in the Gazette the appointment of Mr Corigan,[23] about which
she must complain to Lord John Russell. Not only had her pleasure not been taken upon it, but
she had actually mentioned to Lord Spencer that she had her doubts about the true propriety
of the appointment. Lord John will always have found the Queen desirous to meet his views with
regard to all appointments and ready to listen to any reasons which he might adduce in favour
of his recommendations, but she must insist upon appointments in her Household not being made
without her previous sanction, and least of all such as that of a Physician to her person.

    [Footnote 23: Dominic John Corigan, M.D.,
    Physician-in-Ordinary to Her Majesty in Ireland.]

[Pageheading: SWITZERLAND]

[Pageheading: LETTER FROM THE KING OF PRUSSIA]

The King of Prussia to Queen Victoria.

[Translation.]

25th November 1847.

... I hear with delight and thankfulness that it has pleased your Majesty to agree to a Conference
for regulating the dreadful Swiss quarrels.[24] I took the liberty to propose my beloved and
truly amiable town of Neuchâtel as the place for the Conference, not only because its position
in neutral territory and in Switzerland herself qualifies it above every other place for that
purpose, but particularly because this meeting of the representatives of the great Powers there
would protect it and the courageous and faithful country of Neuchâtel from indignities, spoliation,
and all the horrors which oppress at this moment the unfortunate and far from courageous Fribourg.
I am afraid that your Majesty has not a full appreciation of the people and the partisans who
fill Switzerland with murders and the miseries of the most abominable Civil War. Your Majesty's
happy realms have centuries ago passed through the "phase" of such horrors, and with you the
state of parties has been (as one says here) grown in bottles,[25] under the glorious Constitution
given by God and History, but not "made"; but there, in Switzerland, a party is becoming victorious!!!
which, notwithstanding the exercise of Christian charity, can only be called "Gottlos und Rechtlos"
(without God and without right). For Germany, the saving of Switzerland from the hands of the
Radicals is simply a vital question. If they are victorious there, in Germany likewise torrents
of blood will flow; I will answer for that. The murder of Kings, Priests, and Aristocrats is
no empty sound with them, and Civil War in song, writing, word, and deed, is their watchword.
"Toute charité bien entendue commence par soi-même." So they begin with their own country,
true to this "Christian" (!) motto. If they are allowed to proceed, surely they won't stop
there. Thousands of emigrated malefactors wait only for a sign (which their comrades and allies
in Germany will not be backward in giving) to pour forth beyond the German frontier. In Germany
the PEOPLE are just as little fond of them as they were in Switzerland, but the experience
of Switzerland teaches us that that alone cannot stem their victorious march, if circumstances
are favourable to them. The German people rely upon their Governments, and do nothing, but
Governments are weakened by the modern Liberalism (the precursor of Radicalism, as the dying
of chickens precedes the Cholera) and will have to take the consequences of their own negligence.
Notwithstanding people and princes, that godless band will march through Germany, because,
though small, it is strong through being united and determined. All this I have pondered in
my head and heart (led, so to say, by the hand of History), and that has prompted me now to
propose that the German Confederation (which en parenthèse includes a population of more than
forty millions) should appear as one of the great Powers of Europe at the settlement of the
Swiss dispute, and should be admitted as such by the other great Powers. Would your Majesty
do justice, and give PROTECTION to this idea?...

F. W.

    [Footnote 24: See Introductory Note for the year, ante, p.
    115.]

    [Footnote 25: As old wine improves by being kept in bottles.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S REPLY]

Queen Victoria to the King of Prussia.

OSBORNE, 5th December 1847.

Since your letter was written events have followed each other so rapidly that at this moment
the war in Switzerland may be considered as terminated; by the capitulations of the Cantons
formerly constituting the Sonderbund, two parties, between which a mediation of the great Powers
could have taken place, have ceased to exist, and consequently mediation and the Conference
resulting from it are in fact no longer necessary or possible. I had proposed London as the
place of conference, but should with pleasure have waived this proposition to adopt the place
which you have expressed a wish of seeing fixed for that purpose, viz. Neuchâtel, and I should
have felt truly happy if by so doing I could have met your wishes, and given further protection
to the principality against possible aggressions on the part of the Federal Government of Switzerland.
As matters now stand, the only complication which might arise is that between Neuchâtel and
the Diet. I have, in anticipation of any such event, instructed Sir Stratford Canning to exert
himself to his utmost to dissuade the Diet from any plan of aggression on your territory, and
he has been furnished with an able and elaborate state paper for his guidance, which Chevalier
Bunsen had drawn up, discussing the legal merits of the case. Should events prove that Sir
S. Canning did not arrive in time, or had not the power of averting a hostile step against
Neuchâtel, you may rely upon my readiness at all times to put my good offices at your disposal.
Should a conference upon Swiss affairs still become necessary, I conceive that the only plea
upon which the great Powers could meet in conference would be their having guaranteed the independence
and neutrality of Switzerland, and by implication the Federal Compact amongst the Cantons.
This has not been the case with regard to the German Confederation, and I do not readily see
in consequence how the Confederation could be admitted into this Conference, however much I
confess I would like to see Germany take her place amongst the Powers of Europe, to which her
strength and population fairly entitle her. I may say that my Government are equally impressed
with me with the importance of German unity and strength and of this strength weighing in the
balance of power of Europe; I am sure that the English public generally share this feeling,
but I must not conceal from your Majesty that much would depend upon the manner in which this
power was represented. Much as the English would like to see this power represented by the
enlightened councils of your Majesty, they would be animated with very different feelings in
seeing it in the hands of Prince Metternich ...

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 19th December 1847.

