The works hitherto printed (neglecting reprints) are the following:--(1) Speculum Alchimiae
(1541)--translated into English (1597); French, A Poisson (1890); (2) De Mirabili Potestate
Artis et Naturae (1542)--English translation (1659); (3) Libellus de Retardandis Senectutis
Accidentibus (1590)--translated as the "Cure of Old Age," by Richard Brown (London, 1683);
(4) Sanioris Medicinae Magistri D. Rogeri Baconis Anglici de Arte Chymiae Scripta (Frankfort,
1603)--a collection of small tracts containing Excerpta de Libra Avicennae de Anima, Breve
Breviarium, Verbum Abbreviatum,[3] Secretum Secretorum, Tractatus Trium Verborum, and Speculum
Secretorum; (5) Perspectiva (1614), which is the fifth part of the Opus Majus; (6) Specula
Mathematica, which is the fourth part of the same; (7) Opus Majus ad Clementem IV., edited
by S. Jebb (1733) and J. H. Bridges (London, 1897); (8) Opera hactenus Inedita, by J. S. Brewer
(1859), containing the Opus Tertium, Opus Minus, Compendium Studii Philosophiae and the De
Secretis Operibus Naturae; (9) De Morali Philosophia (Dublin, 1860, see below); (10) The Greek
Grammar of R. Bacon and a Fragment of his Hebrew Grammar, edited with introduction and notes
by E. S. Nolan and S. A. Hirsch (1902); (11) Metaphysica Fratris Rogeri, edited by R. Steele,
with a preface (1905); (12) Opera hactenus inedita, by Robert Steele (1905).

How these works stand related to one another can only be determined by internal evidence. The
smaller works, chiefly on alchemy, are unimportant, and the dates of their composition cannot
be ascertained. It is known that before the Opus Majus Bacon had already written some tracts,
among which an unpublished work, Computus Naturalium, on chronology, belongs probably to the
year 1263; while, if the dedication of the De Secretis Operibus be authentic, that short treatise
must have been composed before 1249.

It is, however, with the Opus Majus that Bacon's real activity begins. It has been called by
Whewell at once the Encyclopaedia and the Organum of the 13th century.

Part I. (pp. 1-22), which is sometimes designated De Utililate Scientiarum, treats of the four
offendicula, or causes of error. These are, authority, custom, the opinion of the unskilled
many, and the concealment of real ignorance with pretence of knowledge. The last error is the
most dangerous, and is, in a sense, the cause of all the others. The offendicula have sometimes
been looked upon as an anticipation of Francis Bacon's Idola, but the two classifications have
little in common. In the summary of this part, contained in the Opus Tertium, Bacon shows very
clearly his perception of the unity of science and the necessity of encyclopaedic treatment.

Part II. (pp. 23-43) treats of the relation between philosophy and theology. All true wisdom
is contained in the Scriptures, at least implicitly; and the true end of philosophy is to rise
from the imperfect knowledge of created things to a knowledge of the Creator. Ancient philosophers,
who had not the Scriptures, received direct illumination from God, and only thus can the brilliant
results attained by them be accounted for.

Part III. (pp. 44-57) treats of the utility of grammar, and the necessity of a true linguistic
science for the adequate comprehension either of the Scriptures or of books on philosophy.
[v.03 p.0155] The necessity of accurate acquaintance with any foreign language and of obtaining
good texts, is a subject Bacon is never weary of descanting upon. A translator should know
thoroughly the language he is translating from, the language into which he is translating,
and the subject of which the book treats.

Part IV. (pp. 57-255) contains an elaborate treatise on mathematics, "the alphabet of philosophy,"
maintaining that all the sciences rest ultimately on mathematics, and progress only when their
facts can be subsumed under mathematical principles. This fruitful thought he illustrates by
showing how geometry is applied to the action of natural bodies, and demonstrating by geometrical
figures certain laws of physical forces. He also shows how his method may be used to determine
some curious and long-discussed problems, such as the light of the stars, the ebb and flow
of the tide, the motion of the balance. He then proceeds to adduce elaborate and sometimes
slightly grotesque reasons tending to prove that mathematical knowledge is essential in theology,
and closes this section of his work with two comprehensive sketches of geography and astronomy.
That on geography is particularly good, and is interesting as having been read by Columbus,
who lighted on it in Petrus de Alliaco's Imago Mundi, and was strongly influenced by its reasoning.

Part V. (pp. 256-357) treats of perspective. This was the part of his work on which Bacon most
prided himself, and in it, we may add, he seems to owe most to the Arab writers Kindi and Alhazen.
The treatise opens with an able sketch of psychology, founded upon, but in some important respects
varying from, Aristotle's De Anima. The anatomy of the eye is next described; this is done
well and evidently at first hand, though the functions of the parts are not given with complete
accuracy. Many other points of physiological optics are touched on, in general erroneously.
Bacon then discusses vision in a right line, the laws of reflection and refraction, and the
construction of mirrors and lenses. In this part of the work, as in the preceding, his reasoning
depends essentially upon his peculiar view of natural agents and their activities. His fundamental
physical maxims are matter and force; the latter he calls virtus, species, imago agentis, and
by numberless other names. Change, or any natural phenomenon, is produced by the impression
of a virtus or species on matter--the result being the thing known. Physical action is, therefore,
impression, or transmission of force in lines, and must accordingly be explained geometrically.
This view of nature Bacon considered fundamental, and it lies, indeed, at the root of his whole
philosophy. To the short notices of it given in the 4th and 5th parts of the Opus Majus, he
subjoined two, or perhaps three, extended accounts of it. We possess at least one of these
in the tract De Multiplicatione Specierum, printed as part of the Opus Majus by Jebb (pp. 358-444).
We cannot do more than refer to Charles for discussions as to how this theory of nature is
connected with the metaphysical problems of force and matter, with the logical doctrine of
universals, and in general with Bacon's theory of knowledge.

Part VI. (pp. 445-477) treats of experimental science, domina omnium scientiarum. There are
two methods of knowledge: the one by argument, the other by experience. Mere argument is never
sufficient; it may decide a question, but gives no satisfaction or certainty to the mind, which
can only be convinced by immediate inspection or intuition. Now this is what experience gives.
But experience is of two sorts, external and internal; the first is that usually called experiment,
but it can give no complete knowledge even of corporeal things, much less of spiritual. On
the other hand, in inner experience the mind is illuminated by the divine truth, and of this
supernatural enlightenment there are seven grades.

