The black certainly began well. He hit the first ball he received clean out of the ground for
six runs, but the second ball retaliated and smote him direfully somewhere in the small ribs.
Thereupon, he fell down and rolled twenty yards to allay the agony, after which he rose up
and withdrew, declaring that he had met his death, and that no power on earth would induce
him to bat again. These negroes never forget an injury of this kind. If our black stoker lives
over to-morrow, he will probably collect his colleagues from the ship, and row ashore by night
and seek out the local bowler, and make it very unrestful and exciting for him.

The Model Man now came in, but he had the misfortune to lose my assistance almost immediately.
I was caught at short leg after a patient innings of ten, slightly marred, however, by about
the same number of chances. The Fourth Officer took my place. He began by nearly running out
his Captain. If point had not stopped to dance and rub his leg, the wicket must have fallen.
Then the new-comer settled down and played with great care, and irritated the bowlers extremely
by giving them advice and criticising their efforts. Once they sent him so slow a ball that
it never reached the wicket at all. Then our Fourth Officer rushed out and hit it after it
had stopped, and so, rather ingeniously, scored two. It was a revolutionary sort of stroke,
and the umpire said it must not be counted, but the batsman insisted upon having the runs put
down. Of course, to argue with any umpire is madness. This black one simply waited for the
next over, and then gave our Fourth Officer out "leg before." There was a great argument, but
the umpire's ruling had to be upheld, and the batsman retired, declaring that he would never
play cricket with savages again as long as he lived. He said:

"In the first place the ball was a wide, and in the second, after breaking a yard and a half,
it hit my elbow. Then that black ass gives me out 'leg before.' It's sickening. Emancipation
is the biggest error of the century. I'm going back to the ship." But he did not. He found
something under a yellow parasol that comforted him.

The Doctor came in next, and hit the first ball he received over the bowler's head for three.
Encouraged by this success, he ran half across the ground to the next one, missed it, and would
have been stumped under ordinary circumstances, but the ball, instead of going to the wicket-keeper,
shunted off at a sort of junction, and proceeded to short-slip. He, desiring the honour of
defeating the Doctor, would not give the ball up, and tried to put the wicket down himself.
This the outraged custodian of the stumps refused to permit, and while they were wrangling
about it, and the rest of the team were screaming directions, our batsman galloped safely back
amidst loud applause.

We made fifty-eight for four wickets, the Model Man being the next to succumb. He had performed
well, in something approaching style, for thirty runs. After him came the Treasure. He played
forward very tamely at everything, until a ball suddenly got up and skinned two of his knuckles.
Then he grew excited, and began hitting very hard, and making runs at a tremendous pace.

Meanwhile the Doctor, finding his wicket still intact, suddenly became enthusiastic and took
extraordinary interest in his innings. Between each ball he marched about the pitch and grubbed
up tufts of grass and threw away stones, and patted the different elevations and acclivities
with his bat. But he might just as well have patted the Alps, or any other mountain range.
He hit a fast ball straight up into the air, when only five or six runs were wanted to win
the match. It was one of those awkward, lofty hits that half the field can get to, if they
only look alive. In this case, four negroes were all waiting to secure him, so the Doctor escaped
again. Then, evidently under the impression that he bore a charmed life, he began taking great
liberties, and pulling straight balls and strolling about out of his ground, and so forth.
Finally, amid some intricate manoeuvres, he jumped on to his own wicket, and retired well pleased
with his performance. The Treasure went on hitting and being hit for a few minutes longer;
then he made the winning stroke, and the contest came to a happy conclusion.

With one or two exceptions, everybody had much enjoyed the match; and that night, I recollect,
we sat and smoked late on the deck of the "Rhine," fought our battle once more, explained our
theories of cricket to one another, and agreed that it was a great and grand amusement.

"But," said the Fourth Officer, "it is not a pastime in which your nigger will ever excel.
He cannot learn the rules, let alone play the game."

"No," I answered, "he does not excel at it, because, 'unstable as water,' the Ethiopian will
never excel at anything; but he does quite as well as one might have expected, and, if he had
a better ground, might play a better game."

Certainly that cricket ground requires attention. To level it, though doubtless an engineering
feat, should not be impossible. If an earthquake could be arranged, it might leave a surface
for steam rollers to begin working upon; but no mere patching or tinkering will answer the
purpose. Something definite and drastic and colossal must be done to the cricket ground we
played on at St. Thomas before it can become fairly worthy of the name.

My First Book.

BY R. M. BALLANTYNE.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY GEO. HUTCHINSON.

The record was never meant to see the light in the form of a book. It was written solely for
the eye of my mother, but, as it may be said that it was the means of leading me ultimately
into the path of my life-work, and was penned under somewhat peculiar circumstances, it may
not be out of place to refer to it particularly here.

The circumstances were as follows:--

After having spent about six years in the wild Nor' West, as a servant of the Hudson's Bay
Fur Company, I found myself, one summer--at the advanced age of twenty-two--in charge of an
outpost on the uninhabited northern shores of the gulf of St. Lawrence named Seven Islands.
It was a dreary, desolate spot; at that time far beyond the bounds of civilisation.

These, then, were the circumstances in which I began my first book.

When that book was finished, and, not long afterwards, submitted to the--I need hardly say
favourable--criticism of my mother, I had not the most distant idea of taking to authorship
as a profession. Afterwards the first part of the title was dropped, and the book is now known
as "The Young Furtraders."

One other word in conclusion. Always, while writing--whatever might be the subject of my story--I
have been influenced by an undercurrent of effort and desire to direct the minds and affections
of my readers towards the higher life.

Trials And Troubles of an Artist.

BY FRED MILLER.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY E. M. JESSOP.

           -----

Are any professional men so liable to public insults as painters? Only last summer a new, and
I think unique, type of insult was dropped upon me. I had a picture in hand, and wanted a bit
of background to complete it. I had seen just the very thing near Twickenham, so, taking my
sketching-box and camp-stool, I trained out, and in due course started work. Although I was
painting by the side of a public road, the traffic was small and the passers-by few. Still
there were passers-by, mostly children, with their nurses or governesses. I am too used to
being looked at to take any notice of those who try to peep as they pass, and I soon got quite
absorbed in my task. Presently, I was aroused from my artistic abstraction by a little girl
dropping a penny in my box, and before I had time to explain, expostulate, or thank her, she
had run away. "The world is less hard-hearted than I thought," was my reflection as I resumed
painting. A little while after this I noticed, during the pauses of my work, another little
girl hovering about me in an undecided sort of way. After a few moments' indecision, she dropped
a penny in my box and disappeared. "This is encouraging," I said to myself, "I shall certainly
come here again."

I resumed my sketch, when presently a young girl with two children came and stood near me.
These were of a different class. There was no timidity or reticence about them. After standing
at my side, and finding that they could not see to advantage, the three sidled round to the
back, and gradually edged themselves nearer and nearer until they commanded a satisfactory
view of the sketch.

They watched in silence for awhile, and then the girl said--"You ain't done much yet. 'Spose
you're going to finish it at 'ome?"

The tone of her voice made me inclined to humour her, so I replied--

"Well, you see, miss, I haven't taken enough yet. Can't afford to go home on twopence."

"My brother paints. He's in the sixth standard. I give 'im a box of paints on his birthday,
and he's going to paint me a picture for my bedroom."

The gulf that might have divided us was bridged now, so I got what satisfaction I could out
of her chatter.

"I wish I could paint. I'd like to do them tex's what they gives yer at Sunday school."

"Oh, that's the line you'd like to take up, Julia, is it?"

Another pause.

"D'yer like them paintin's what they gives yer at the tea grocers? My brother says 'e's going
to paint them sort when 'e gets them colours what you squeezes out of tubes; you know, like
them ladies' tormenters, same as you gets on Bank 'olidays on 'Ampstead 'Eath."

I wanted to go on with my picture, so I suggested to Julia (I had no reason to suppose that
her name was not Julia) that it was getting near tea-time.

"Oh, is it," she said; "come along, Halbert." Then, turning to me, she added--"Are yer comin'
to-morrer? I'd like yer to see my brother's paintin's."

"That depends upon how much I make to-day, Julia," I answered--"whether the 'pitch' is a good
one or not."

"Oh," said Julia, thoughtfully; "I'd like yer to come to-morrer," and then as she passed she
dropped a halfpenny into my box.

On other occasions, when out painting in poor neighbourhoods, my easel, camp-stool, and self
have been used as "home" in games like "Hi-spi-hoy" and "Hoop," and I have, during the progress
of my sketch, been more than once in imminent danger of being carried away, and my kit sent
flying, during a sudden rush of the excited players. But even such an indignity as this does
not touch bottom. Boys have before now made me a "Harbour of Refuge," with the poetry left
out, and bricks and various missiles substituted. They have dodged behind me to escape the
consequences of "cheekiness" to bigger boys, and have used my canvas as a screen to shield
off stones.

And what are you to do? Just at that moment, in all likelihood, you are putting in a crisp,
telling touch that will "do the trick," and if the news were brought to you that your favourite
aunt had fallen downstairs, it would not be sufficient to make you rise from off your camp-stool.

I was sketching once near a row of those cheap one-storied cottages, generally called Villa
This and Villa That, inhabited by a tribe the mothers of which seem always to have a baby on
hand, and several others in various stages of development. These children spend most of their
time, so far as I can judge, in hanging about, just outside the front garden, waiting for something
to turn up to amuse them, and I had been much bothered by their creeping round behind me, or
edging closer and closer to my side, and occasionally shoving each other so as to shake me
or my sketch. I tried to forget them, and maintained a chilling silence. The numbers, however,
kept on increasing, and presently games were projected in my immediate vicinity, as though
I were the centre of gravity, or the hub of the universe. The climax was reached when a young
nurse, aged seven or thereabouts, with a child just on the brink of independence in her arms,
came up and said--

"D'yer mind me leaving my baby here, while I have a game with the Tubbses? She'll be all right
if I sit her on your jacket."

Nice thing when seeking material for a masterpiece for next year's Academy to be asked to look
after baby!

The remarks made by street loafers and errand-boys, too, who stand at your elbow for half-an-hour
at a stretch, are not encouraging, as a rule. One boy, in what he considers a tone of confidence,
will say to another--

"S'elp me, Bob, aint 'e a doin' it a fair treat."

"Carry me out" (it is impossible to write "out" as they pronounce it), "'Arree, ain't it fine"
(rising intonation on the "I")--"I wish I wos a bloomin' hartist."

"Don't 'e fancy 'isself, just."

It is difficult to keep quietly on at work with every appearance of indifference under such
circumstances. It is also exasperating to be called "Matey," as though you were a pal of theirs,
and lived on the same landing. Yet these are only a few of the indignities with which a poor
artist has to put up.

Who has not, when on a sketching tour, felt the contempt that the bucolic mind has for a man
who, day after day, and week after week, sits out of doors on his camp-stool, doing his best
to catch some of Nature's mystery and fleeting beauty, and give it an abiding place on his canvas.

My friend S---- is a big, healthy, bearded fellow, who looks as though he could pick half-hundred
weights up in each hand with the ease that I pick up my palette. The following dialogue took
place on one occasion between him and an elderly rustic who had been standing watching him
for some time, as he sat by the roadside, painting.

"No offence, sir," said the agriculturist, "but is anything the matter wi' yer?"

"No," answered S---- "What makes you ask?"

"Yer hain't lame, are yer?"

"Lame! Good gracious, no!"

"You hain't 'ad a misfortune in any way? The sciatics or lumbager, that's kind o' laid yer by?"

"No, I'm as well as I have always been."

"An' yer call yerself a man and can sit theer a doin' o' that. Well, I'm d----d!"

I never go out sketching without feeling this silent contempt, for it is only rarely that it
finds expression. The remarks made by villagers show how utterly unable they are to grasp the
idea of anyone valuing an artist's efforts. The old story of the painter who was asked by the
farmer whose cow he had been drawing, what the said picture might be worth when finished, is
typical.

"Oh, I hope to get thirty pounds for it if it is well hung," explained the artist.

"Thutty pound for the mere picture!" cried the old fellow in astonishment. "Why, I'd sell you
the old cow itself for ten."

A spirit of commiseration underlies a good many of the remarks made by the bucolic. I went
down on one occasion to see a couple of painters who had taken a small cottage at one and sixpence
a week in order to paint some orchard pictures. When their neighbours, who were farm hands,
got to know them a bit, they were very friendly disposed, and made them presents of vegetables,
and one old fellow who was reputed to have "saved a smart bit o' money," said to one of the
"painter chaps," as they were called--

"There don't seem much of a living in your business, sir. I s'pose trade's a bit dull with
ye, now folks is a spring cleaning. What do yer say now to paintin' my cart in yer dinner hour?
I shall want it done afore long, and I'd like to gie ye the job, for a shilling or two down't
come amiss to any of us. Do it now?"

Another job refused by these same artists was to clean and touch up an old picture that had
been bought for a few shillings at a sale. The old chap who had purchased it went so far as
to offer them a shilling to do the work, and that offer being declined, he threw in a pint
of stout as an additional inducement.

A friend who had painted a 50 x 40 canvas outside during one summer, spending some five or
six weeks upon it, told me that one old chap, who looked like a jobbing gardener, used to pass
by every day, and invariably stayed to stare at the work, but always at a respectful distance,
and it was not until the picture was nearly completed that he broke the silence.

"D'yer moind me 'aving a look at it, sir?"

"Oh, certainly not," and my friend got off his camp-stool to let the critic have an uninterrupted
view. The subject was a careful study of wild flowers and herbage, growing in the corner of
an orchard. The old fellow seemed to take the picture in very carefully, and at length said:

"Is it a view in Ireland, sir?"

"View in Ireland! What made you think of that? Don't you see it's the corner of the orchard
there, with all the thistles and docks and wild flowers?"

"Well, to be sure! Fancy anyone a paintin' them weeds and trumpery!" and with that cheerless
remark the old fellow sheered off.

Sculptors, unlike painters, rarely venture out of their studios, but it happened that a sculptor
came down to spend a few days with us when in a Norfolk village, and so liked the place that
he hired a barn, had a lot of clay and a turntable sent down, and started modelling a milkmaid.
As the work progressed, it became the talk of the place, and, in due course, numbers came to
see the clay image that my friend was setting up in the barn. This work did appeal to them.
They could see at a glance what it was meant to represent, and the chorus of approval was loud
and general, except on the part of the village constable. He was a taciturn man, and used to
come and smoke his pipe and preserve a contemptuous silence. One day he said--

"Are you making that image for a church?"

"No. Why did you think I was?"

"Oh, nothing. Only when I was in London, and that's a smart while ago, I worked on a church
as was a buildin', and we had to fix some figures; only they were made in what we calls Portland
cement."

"Oh, then, you have seen sculpture before?"

"Yes, sir, 'tain't the first time as I've seed a graven image, as the Bible calls 'em. D'yer
ever make them figures they puts over doors and winders of houses?"

"No; I can't say I do."

"Did you ever see them two figures in the Lord Mayor's palace in the City? You ought to see
them, sir. I reckon they're the best things in that line you can see anywhere?"

"I'm afraid I don't remember which figures you refer to."

"Oh, they ain't like your work, not a little bit. They're picked out in all kinds of colours,
and are ever so big. I was thinking they must represent two of them heathen gods what the Children
of Israel fell down and worshipped. You know the figures I mean?"

"I'm afraid I don't. Can't you remember their names?"

"Why, Gog and Magog, aren't they, sir?"

The Brothers' Agency.

BY DO BAHIN.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE MISSES HAMMOND.

               -----

"She won't see you, my boy," said Grigsby, as I stood on the steps of the Scandalmongers' Club
waiting for the next West Kensington 'bus; "she's doing a roaring trade, and don't want any
more advertisements; and if she does she'll put up her own notices, and not use you for billsticker."

"Grigsby may not be right this time," I reflected, as I scaled the 'bus. "He seldom is! And
haven't I triumphantly interviewed all the most unmanageable celebrities of the last ten years,
from Lord Tennyson to the Royal baby? I suppose it's my bland appearance. It lulls suspicion
and excites curiosity. People want to see whether it is possible for any man to be such a fool
as I look. Anyhow, I must go through with it now, as I've let it out to Grigsby."

The fact is, I was about to try to interview Miss Jenny T. Buller, the inventress and manager
of the "Brothers' Agency," perhaps the most important social factor of the present century.
In due course I found myself opposite a smart-looking house, on whose door-plate was engraved
"The Brothers' Agency."

Being taken no doubt for a postulant Brother, I was shown upstairs into a severe but elegant
room, in the middle of which, at a huge desk loaded with papers, sat a fashionable young lady
of the frailest type of Transatlantic beauty.

"Miss Buller, I believe."

"You will not suit," she said, after one short but decisive stare. "You are not up to our mark."

"I don't wish to be a Brother," I replied.

"Then what do you want?" she answered.

"Miss Buller," I inquired, as if my life depended on the response, "how did you ever think
of this wonderful scheme?"

She laid down her pen, and turned in her chair; and I saw that I had won.

"I'm tired of writing just now," she began, "and I don't mind if I tell you.

"I found myself obliged to increase my income by some means. I first thought of starting a
servants' agency; but the inconvenience I experienced from having no brothers to take me about
suggested a novel idea to me. I was wondering if other girls felt as I did, when it flashed
upon me that young men who, from any reasons, are in want of money, might let themselves out
as brothers to well-to-do damsels possessing no fraternal relations. I immediately settled
to start an agency for this object--somewhat on the principle of 'Lady Guides'--the full title
being 'The agency for supplying Brothers to brotherless girls, or those with unobliging brothers.'
I resolved to call it shortly 'The Brothers' Agency.' It is a good name, and gives to the undertaking
a kind of monastic flavour that I find is very taking.

"Of course I only began in a small way amongst the men and girls I knew personally; but my
business spread so rapidly that I soon started a regular office, and issued printed rules.

"I decided that the Brothers should go to their work during the day (as such relations do),
and only be engaged for the evening to escort my clients, as their sisters, to balls, theatres,
etc. I knew that young men in London society were supposed to let themselves out for dances;
so why not as Brothers?"

"Why not, indeed?" I murmured sympathetically.

"We do not find," she continued vivaciously, "that it leads to matrimonial complications, as
the men who seek employment as Brothers are usually so very impecunious that they understand
that marriage is out of the question for them. I was told by my friends, by which I mean all
those who felt themselves privileged to say nasty things to me, that we should degenerate into
a matrimonial agency, but I have not found it so. On the contrary, every man entering his name
on our books, and every girl engaging a Brother, signs a paper agreeing to pay a large prohibitive
fine should they get engaged to each other during the period of fraternity. Any man known to
be engaged is obliged to take his name off the books at once, as we find fiancées very prejudiced,
and several unpleasant visits were paid to me at the office. Any man becoming engaged while
fulfilling a contract is liable to instant dismissal at the employer's pleasure, it having
been found that he almost invariably becomes remiss and inattentive in his discharge of duties.

"Of course, till the significance of the title of 'Brother' became generally known in London
society, there arose a good deal of scandal and confusion.

"One sister was seen at the theatre by an old maiden aunt, who had never heard of the Agency.
The young lady offered as an explanation that the man with her was 'only engaged for the time,'
which so shocked the poor old lady that she made a codicil next day to her will reciting her
niece's misbehaviour and disinheriting her."

"That kind of misunderstanding," I said, "can hardly occur any longer."

"I should think not," she retorted. "And meantime, thank goodness, the term 'Brother' has put
an end to that hackneyed form of refusal, 'I love you as a brother.' The sisters are only allowed
to require the attention of the Brothers for a stated number of nights a week, and the work
is well paid. On the other hand, the sisters escape all the duties they generally have to perform
for their real brothers, such as practising accompaniments, mending, shopping, or running messages.

"Brothers are engaged by the week; but I always recommend that the same Brother should not
be retained for more than a month, as too long a service makes them--like old family servants--presume,
and fancy themselves invaluable."

"And how do you manage about characters?" I here enquired.

"I never," she said, "consent to act as agent for any man I have not seen, or to procure a
Brother for any girl I have not talked to; and I study their characters so as to know how any
arrangement is likely to answer. We often have photographs of Brothers ready for engagement--in
fact, those who keep their names permanently on the books usually supply us with cabinet pictures
for reference, and I arrange for interviews as between mistresses and servants."

"And what terms are generally asked by the Brothers?" I said.

"These, of course," she replied, "depend largely on the nature of the situation, and the qualifications
of the Brother. Vulgar or disagreeable girls have to pay very heavily. Families with several
girls are charged more in proportion, as many men object to go where other Brothers are kept.
Some men are willing to go as joint Brother to a family of girls, but this rarely works well.

"They are paid so much a week, and their theatre money if they have to escort the lady to the
play (like beer money, you know). One man required his buttonhole bouquets, but I said he was
clearly above his place. We do not arrange any engagements for the summer vacation, as we have
found it too dangerous. I really think," she added thoughtfully, "that the best way of explaining
our methods to you would be to show some entries in our books."

"I should be deeply interested," I answered, stifling my eagerness, "and it would be very kind
of you."

She drew a great ledger towards her, and showed me one or two entries. The first ran as follows:

"'A Brother, six feet high; dresses well; aristocratic manners; a good dancer, and knows all
the newest steps, including the Pas de Quatre; obliging, and good-tempered; a teetotaller,
and only smokes the best tobacco. Has the highest credentials from his last place. Available
for "Church Parade" on Sunday, but prefers not to attend church previously, as he cannot get
up so early.'"

"What a paragon!" I exclaimed.

"Ah! but he asks a very large salary," she rejoined; "he is so much sought after. This is a
less expensive one--

"'A Brother, aged 27, something in the City; bad figure, but pleasant smile, and amusing to
talk to; slightly provincial, but very highly educated; most respectable and steady; musical,
and a good tennis player. Very few private engagements, and therefore available most days of
the week. Charges strictly moderate.'"

"We have one man on the books who owns a dogcart," resumed Miss Buller. "He is in the Guards,
and preferred to earn a little money to being obliged to leave his regiment. I need hardly
say that his charges are very high."

"Naturally," I murmured.

"Here is an advertisement addressed to young ladies of a religious turn of mind:

"'A young curate, who has a conscientious objection to bazaars, would be glad to augment his
income (the money to be devoted to charitable objects) by obtaining employment as a Brother.
He does not dance himself, but would give the sanction of his presence to such entertainments
any day except Friday. He is fond of tennis and a good oar. He will give assistance to any
lady district-visiting, or taking a Sunday-school class in his own parish. He prefers, as the
object is a charitable one, leaving the question of salary to the sister's own good feeling.'

"You wouldn't believe," said Miss Buller, "what a run there is on him; but I find I can easily
supply every kind of variety now. A barrister, on this next page, suggests that, as he has
influential legal connections, he can generally procure for his sister an excellent place at
the sensational trials that have become so fashionable for ladies to attend! He commands a
huge salary, especially being a gifted conversationalist, and taking the charge of a dinner
table brilliantly; he has credentials from his last place for being 'witty without vulgarity.'"

"And now," I said, "I should like to see the sort of advertisement used by ladies needing Brothers,
if you would be kind enough to show me one."

"They are not so interesting," she replied, "but here is one I received to-day:

"'A Brother is required during the hunting season by two sisters. He must be a good rider,
capable of giving a lead, but very obliging, as two Brothers have been parted with lately,
owing to over-excitement in the field causing them to neglect their sisters. The Brother will
be mounted by the ladies' parents.'"

"Don't you find that disputes arise," I asked, "between Brothers and their employers? I should
have thought the position might become irksome to a young man, if the sister was unpleasant."

"Of course," she answered pensively, "an ill-tempered girl can make matters very unpleasant;
but such people pay very highly, as I pointed out only yesterday to one of our most promising
Brothers. 'She is rather a common girl,' I said, 'but you know you were very unlucky at Newmarket
lately; and you sit up incessantly playing poker; and if you take my advice you will make your
losses good by sticking to your place. I dare say the theatres are rather trying, but, on the
other hand, as you don't go into at all the same society that she does, you are not likely
to meet anyone you know at the parties she takes you to; and, of course, as her Brother, you
need not dance incessantly with her!' He finally took my advice."

"Now that," I said, in my very stupidest manner, "is one of the difficulties which has occurred
to me. A man who has been engaged as a Brother finds himself saddled with an undesirable acquaintance
after the engagement is over."

"I should have thought," she replied, indignantly, "that you would have understood that neither
the lady nor the Brother are expected to recognise each other when they meet after the termination
of the engagement."

"It must be anxious work sometimes," I remarked, "settling the disputes that arise."

"It is, indeed," said Miss Buller. "One contract on the part of a rising young artist was actually
broken off in the middle because the sister who had engaged him, an inordinately vain girl,
insisted on being introduced as a central figure into his Academy picture for the year. He
refused, and appealed to me; I supported him; on which the young lady came to the office and
abused us both. My fear now is," she continued, "that Mr. Whiteley will step in and 'provide'
Brothers, but I feel sure that this business could only be managed successfully by a lady.
A dispute arose last week over the question of a Brother being required to introduce any friends
he might meet at a party to his sister. I vetoed this at once, as real brothers often decline
to do this, unless they consider their sister does them credit. On another occasion a Brother
insisted on smoking a strong cigar in a cab, coming back from the theatre, saying that he was
not accustomed to treat his sisters with ceremony."

