NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

MONETARY SENSATIONS.

The poorest and most unlucky dog in the world either has or had some small portion of money.
No matter how small, how hardly, or how precariously earned, he has seen, from time to time,
a glimpse of the colour of his own cash, and rejoiced accordingly as that colour was brown,
white, or yellow. It follows, therefore, that even the poorest and most unlucky dog in the
world has experienced monetary sensations. It may appear paradoxical, but it is no less true,
that it is the very rich, born to riches, the heirs to great properties, or no end of consolidated
stock, who have never enjoyed or feared the sensation to which we allude. To them, money is
a thing of course; it pours in upon them with the regularity of the succeeding seasons. Rent-day
comes of itself, and there is the money; dividend-day is as sure as Christmas, and there lie
the receipts. These are the people who know nothing of the commodity with which they are so
well endowed, or, at most, their knowledge is but skin-deep. They take and spend, just as they
sit or walk. Both seem natural processes; they have performed them since they were born. Their
money is a bit of themselves--an extra and uncommonly convenient limb with which they are endowed.
It is only when some sudden catastrophe bursts upon and cuts off the supplies, that this class
of ladies and gentlemen experience, like the shock of a thousand freezing shower-baths, their
first 'monetary sensation.'

But the men and women who work either with head or hands--who fight their way--who plan to
gain and plan to spend, so that the latter shall counterbalance the former--who lie sleepless
in their beds, intent on how to make both ends meet--who are lucky and unlucky--who travel
the ups and the downs of life, here grasping fortunes, there turning out the linings of penniless
pockets: these are the people whose whole lives are one long succession of monetary sensations.
Among them mainly is cultivated the art of looking at two sides of a shilling. They know how
to value half-crowns and sovereigns in calling up the long arrear of hard-worked hours, which
are, as it were, the small-change of quarters' salaries and weeks' wages. How many strokes
of the steady-going pen are encircled in those bright yellow disks--how many thumps of the
ponderous hammer has it taken to produce this handful of silver. Or on a larger scale--as the
successful speculator sweeps to himself the mass of notes and bills, all as good as gold, for
which he has set every penny of his worldly means upon the stake, and feels with a thrill which
makes him clutch the precious paper, that had things not turned out as, thank Heaven! they
have, that then, and then!----He has had a tolerably vigorous monetary sensation.

But the whole of the money-getting classes, and, to some extent, the classes who merely spend
what others got and gave them, can look very well back upon a series of monetary sensations
which have marked epochs in their lives. Our remembrances of that kind are, of course, most
deeply engraved, and most clearly recollected, in the cases in which we are working for ourselves,
and have ourselves achieved steps and triumphed over difficulties in life--each step and triumph
marked by a lengthening of the purse. But there are early monetary impressions common to almost
all the juvenile world, rich and poor--to the children of the duke or of the mechanic, to the
boy who has obtained the price of a pony or a watch, and the boy who has been made a present
of what will buy him a twopenny story-book, or a twopenny bun. Boys and girls commonly have
poses--to adopt a phrase not known south of the Tweed, where it must be explained, that to
have a pose, is to possess a little private and secret, or quasi-secret, hoard of treasure.
This pose frequently imparts the first monetary sensation. It instils the first distinct idea
of the value of money; it gives the first notion of the accumulation of precious things; and
the little proprietor or proprietrix comes to rattle the box with the narrow slit as a sort
of sly enjoyment. To break into a pose would be quite profane and irreverent. Pose-boxes do
not open, and so far read a philosophic lesson to the proprietors. Always save, always add,
always hold as a sort of sacred deposit, the mysteriously precious pose-boxes. Occasionally,
again, a child gets a present of a sovereign, or an old-fashioned guinea, which it would be
dreadful sacrilege to change. Every one will remember how Sophy and Livy Primrose 'never went
without money themselves, as my wife always let them have a guinea each to keep in their pockets,
but with strict injunctions never to change it.' There are hundreds of thousands of Sophies
and Livies possessed of the same sacred store, or having given it to their parents 'to keep,'
over whose minds the remembrance of the secret hoard every now and then sends flashing across
the mind of the child a sense of importance, or richness, or a general self-complacency which
varies with the individuality. Boys and girls in the next stages of their growth care little
and think little about money, except as a means of obtaining some trifling passing indulgence.
The childish reverence for the pose has passed. The unopenable box has been long since opened,
and the unchangeable guinea long since changed. We allude here, of course, to the children
of the well-to-do. With the children of the poor, the case is different. They never lose the
faculty of monetary sensation. Money is too valuable to them, because as soon as the mere childish
period is past, and sometimes before it, money to the young poor is always translatable into
good food and new clothes. There is nothing more sadly frequent in the squalid lanes and alleys
of London, than to see a little creature, boy or girl, toddle with a chance-penny, not into
the toy-shop or the sweet-shop, but into the cook-shop, and there spend the treasure in food,
taking care, with melancholy precocity, to have the full weight, and only a due proportion
of gristle or fat. Further on in life, when a poor boy earns a chance-sixpence or a shilling,
there is so much added to the store laying up for the new jacket, the new cap, or the new boots;
or, not unfrequently, there is so much gained for the family exigencies of Saturday night.
Here there are monetary sensations in abundance. The life of such people is full of them. The
annuitant or the proprietor who listlessly, and without one additional throb of his pulse,
drops hundreds into his purse, has not the ghost of an idea of the thrill of pleasure--invoking,
perhaps, a score of delightful associations--with which the boy who holds his horse receives
the sixpence, which is tossed him as the capitalist in his normal condition rides coolly and
unmovedly away. To experience monetary sensations, you must earn the money first, and have
a score of urgent purposes disputing for its application.

But perhaps one of the most vivid monetary sensations which a man experiences, is when he is
paid the first instalment of the price of his labours. In an instant, he seems to rise and
take a footing in the world. He has struck the first blow in his Battle of Life, and prostrated
his antagonist, for whom, however, as soon as he has taken him captive, he conceives a particular
affection. The glow of assured independence is a proud and manly feeling. The money is not
given. That is the overmastering sensation. It is fairly earned. The recipient swells with
honest pride as he thinks he is now a man working his way, and strides off a couple of inches
higher than he came. This elevation of sentiment of course gradually dies away. The monetary
sensation of the first-earned payment is not supported, but it is not forgotten, and insensibly,
perhaps, to the recipient, it has at once heightened and deepened the moral qualities and tendencies
of his spiritual being. From time to time, as remuneration ascends, a shade, as it were, of
the first impression is recalled, particularly when the recipient perceives that at last--that
great change in a young man's life--his 'settlement' may be accomplished. Here is another sensational
era in his monetary experiences--the realisation of the grand fact that the struggle, always
promising, is at length successful, and that he is now enlisted in the regular army of society.
The elder Stephenson, when an occasional wage of a shilling per day was raised to a permanent
two, flung up his hat, and exclaimed: 'Thank God! I'm a made man for life!' Here was a fine
monetary sensation.

But there are also monetary sensations of quite a different species from those to which we
have alluded. The sun shines on both sides of the hedge, and blank and dreary, if not dismaying
and crushing, is the first trial of monetary difficulty. People, long struggling, get blunted
to the res angustæ, precisely as people fast prospering do to the steady tide of wealth. The
man who leaps heart-struck from his seat, as for the first time he contemplates a quarter's
rent due and unprovided for, or the foolish fellow who groans in spirit over a protested bill
returned upon the hand which he 'set' to it, merely for the convenience of acquaintance, and
who has never thought of stamped paper since--such are two of the negative monetary associations
which checker life; of course, their number is legion. The man who found his fairy gold transmuted
into oak leaves, experienced a decided monetary sensation; but not more so than fell to the
lot of many a speculator, who had bought to his last available penny in the Mississippi or
the South-sea Bubbles; or, to come to more recent days, in the stock of fly-away English projected
railways. To the mass of monetary sensations of the kind, we fear, must be added at the present
day those produced by betting-offices. In these swindling dens, it is by no means uncommon
to see children, whose heads hardly come above the counter, staking their shillings; even servant-maids
haunt the 'office;' working-men abound, and clerks and shop-boys are great customers. Among
these people, there ought to be a good crop of monetary sensations. In success, the little
man-boy sees a grand vision of cheap cigars, and copper and paste jewellery; for the urchin
early initiated in practical London-life, thinks of such things, and worse, when the country
lad of the same age would dream of nothing beyond kites, fishing-tackle, or perhaps a gun.
Molly, the housemaid, has her prospects of unbounded 'loves of dresses' and 'ducks of bonnets;'
and the clerk and the shopman very possibly count upon their racing gains as the fruitful origin
of 'sprees' and 'larks' innumerable. On the other hand, how has the money staked been acquired?
The pawnbroker's shop and the till will very frequently figure in the answer. Pilfered half-crowns,
or perhaps sovereigns, kept back from collected accounts; or, in domestic service, pledged
spoons and forks, are frequently at the bottom of the betting transactions of these 'noble
sportsmen.' Then comes the period of anticipation, and hope and fear. Bright visions of luck,
on one hand; a black and down-sloping avenue, stopping at the jail door, on the other. Luck--and
the stolen property can be replaced, with a handsome profit; the reverse--and the police-office,
the magistrate, and the sessions, float before the tortured imagination of the 'sportsman.'
Here, then, are some of the saddest, and--whether the result in any case be winning or losing--the
most wearing and degrading of monetary sensations.

We turn, however, to a concluding and a more cheering experience connected with money, and
which may be regarded as a sequel to the sensation of the first earnings. We allude to the
first interest, to the receipt of the first sum which properly belongs to the recipient, and
yet for which he has not immediately and directly toiled. Here another great step has been
achieved. To earn money, was the first triumph; to make money earn money, is the second. There
is something more significantly pleasing in the sensation with which the young up-struggler
of the world receives his first instalment of interest, and yet remembers that all his original
investment is still entire, than in all the lazy satisfaction with which a great stockholder--born
perhaps to stockholding--gathers in his mighty dividends. For the first time, the former begins
to feel a taste, just a taste, of the sweets of property, of the fruits of realisation, and
of the double profits which labour, judiciously managed, will at length bestow. It is getting
money for which he has worked and yet not worked, it is picking up the returning bread thrown
upon the waters; and it is the first experienced sensation of a stable and assured position,
of standing upon one's own feet, independent more or less absolutely of the caprices of fortune
and the liking of employers. The first received amount of interest, however small it may be,
assuredly calls up one of the not easily-forgotten eras of a man's life. There is nothing selfish
or miserly in the fact. On the contrary, it is founded upon pure and natural feelings and impulses.
The most generous man in the world likes to prosper, and the first received sum which his own
money has bred, is a palpable proof that he is prospering. From his childish pose, he can recall
the mental results attendant upon each step of his worldly career, and look back with interest
and curiosity over what, in the course of his life, may have been his 'Monetary Sensations.'

THE POSTHUMOUS PORTRAIT.

A country town is not a very hopeful arena for the exercise of the portrait-painter's art.
Supposing an artist to acquire a local celebrity in such a region, he may paint the faces of
one generation, and then, haply finding a casual job once a year or so, may sit down and count
the hours till another generation rises up and supplies him with a second run of work. In a
measure, the portrait-painter must be a rolling-stone, or he will gather no moss. So thought
Mr Conrad Merlus, as he packed up his property, and prepared to take himself off from the town
of C----, in Wiltshire, to seek fresh fields and pastures new, where the sun might be disposed
to shine upon portrait-painting, and where he might manage to make hay the while. Conrad was
a native of C----. In that congenial spot he had first pursued the study of his art, cheered
by the praises of the good folks around him, and supported by their demands upon his talents.
While, in a certain fashion, he had kept the spirit of art alive in the place, the spirit of
art, in return, had kept him alive. But now all the work was done for a long time to come;
every family had its great portraits, and would want him no more yet awhile; and Conrad saw,
that if he could not turn his hand to something else, and in place of pencils and brushes,
work with last, spade, needle, or quill, make shoes, coats, till the ground, or cast up accounts,
he should shortly be hardly put to it to keep himself going. He had made and saved a pretty
tolerable little purse during his short season of patronage, and determined to turn that to
account in seeking, in other places, a continuation of commissions. His father and mother were
both dead, and, so far as he knew, he had no near relative alive. Therefore, there were no
ties, save those of association, to bind him to his native place--'No ties,' sighed Conrad,
'no ties at all.'

It was Monday evening, and the next day, Tuesday, was to behold his departure. His rent was
paid, his traps were all packed up in readiness, and he had nothing to think about, saving
whither he should proceed. He walked out, for the last time, into the little garden behind
the modest house in which he had dwelt, pensive and somewhat triste; for one cannot, without
sorrowful emotions of some sort, leave, perhaps for ever, a spot in which the stream of life
has flowed peacefully and pleasantly for many years, and where many little enjoyments, successes,
and triumphs have been experienced. Even a Crusoe cannot depart from his desolate island without
a pang, although he goes, after years of miserable solitude, to rejoin the human family. It
was the month of August, and the glory of the summer was becoming mellowed and softened. The
nights were gradually growing longer and the days shorter, the reapers were in the harvest-fields,
the woods and groves were beginning to shew the autumn tint, the sun sank behind the hills
earlier and earlier day by day, and the broad harvest-moon reigned throughout the sweet and
fragrant nights. Conrad felt the influence of the season, and though he had for some time contemplated
his departure from his home with all the cheerfulness which the spirit of adventure imparts
to young men, he now, as the time arrived, felt inclined to weep over the separation. He was
indulging in reveries of a mournful complexion, when he observed his landlady leave the house,
and, entering the garden, bustle towards him in a great hurry. Assured by the manner of the
worthy old lady that he was wanted, and urgently, by some one or other, he rose from the rustic
seat on which he had been sitting, and went to meet her. A gentleman had called to see him,
in a phaeton, and was waiting in the parlour in a state of impatience and excitement which
Mrs Farrell had never seen the like of. Wondering who the visitor could be, Conrad hastened
into the parlour. He found there an elderly individual of gentlemanly appearance, who was walking
to and fro restlessly, and whose countenance and demeanour bore affecting evidences of agitation
and sorrow. He approached Conrad quickly.

'You are a portrait-painter, Mr Merlus?'

'Yes, sir.'

'The only one, I believe, in this neighbourhood?'

'Yes.'

'I am anxious,' continued the gentleman, speaking in a low tone, and with a tremulous earnestness
that rendered his speech peculiarly emphatic--'I am anxious to have painted the portrait of
one who is--who was--very very dear to me, immediately--immediately, for a few hours may make
such a performance impossible. May I beg that you will submit to some sacrifice of convenience--that
you will be good enough to set aside your arrangements for a day or two to execute this work?
Do so, and you shall find that you have lost nothing.'

'Without entertaining any consideration of that sort, sir,' answered Conrad, deeply touched
by the manner of his visitor, which betokened recent and heavy affliction, 'my best abilities,
such as they are, are immediately at your service.'

'Many thanks,' answered the gentleman, pressing his hand warmly. 'Had you declined, I know
not what I should have done; for there is no other of the profession in this neighbourhood,
and there is no time to seek further. Come; for Heaven's sake, let us hasten.'

Conrad immediately gave the necessary intimation to his landlady; his easel, pallet, and painting-box
were quickly placed in the phaeton; the gentleman and himself took their places inside; and
the coachman drove off at as great a pace as a pair of good horses could command.

Twilight was deepening into dusk when, after a silent and rapid ride of some ten miles, the
phaeton stopped before the gates of a park-like demesne. The coachman shouted; when a lad,
who appeared to have been waiting near the spot, ran and opened the gates, and they resumed
their way through a beautiful drive--the carefully-kept sward, the venerable trees, and the
light and elegant ha-has on either side, testifying that they were within the boundaries of
an estate of some pretensions. Half a mile brought them to the portal of a sombre and venerable
mansion, which rose up darkly and majestically in front of an extensive plantation of forest-like
appearance. Facing it was a large, level lawn, having in the centre the pedestal and sun-dial
so frequently found in such situations.

A footman in livery came forth, and taking Conrad's easel and apparatus, carried them into
the house. The young artist, who had always lived and moved among humble people, was surprised
and abashed to find himself suddenly brought into contact with wealth and its accompaniments,
and began to fear that more might be expected of him than he would be able to accomplish. The
occasion must be urgent indeed, thought he nervously, which should induce wealthy people to
have recourse to him--a poor, self-taught, obscure artist--merely because he happened to be
the nearest at hand. However, to draw back was impossible; and, although grief is always repellent,
there was still an amount of kindness and consideration in the demeanour of his new employer
that reassured him. Besides, he knew that, let his painting be as crude and amateur-like as
any one might please to consider it, he had still the undoubted talent of being able to catch
a likeness--indeed, his ability to do this had never once failed him. This reflection gave
him some consolation, and he resolved to undertake courageously whatever was required of him,
and do his best.

When they had entered the house, the door was softly closed, and the gentleman, whose name
we may here mention was Harrenburn, conducted Conrad across the hall, and up stairs to an apartment
on the second storey, having a southern aspect. The proportions of the house were noble. The
wide entrance-hall was boldly tesselated with white and black marble; the staircase was large
enough for a procession of giants; the broad oaken stairs were partly covered with thick, rich
carpet; fine pictures, in handsome frames, decorated the walls; and whenever they happened
in their ascent to pass an opened door, Conrad could see that the room within was superbly
furnished. To the poor painter, these evidences of opulence and taste seemed to have something
of the fabulous about them. The house was good enough for a monarch; and to find a private
gentleman of neither rank nor title living in such splendour, was what he should never have
expected. Mr Harrenburn placed his finger on his lips, as he opened the door of the chamber
already indicated; Conrad followed him in with stealthy steps and suppressed breath. The room
was closely curtained, and a couple of night-lights shed their feeble and uncertain rays upon
the objects within it. The height of the apartment, and the absorbing complexion of the dark
oaken wainscot, here and there concealed by falls of tapestry, served to render such an illumination
extremely inefficient. But Conrad knew that this must be the chamber of death, even before
he was able to distinguish that an apparently light and youthful figure lay stretched upon
the bed--still, motionless, impassive, as death alone can be. Two women, dressed in dark habiliments--lately
nurses of the sick, now watchers over the dead--rose from their seats, and retired silently
to a distant corner of the room as Mr Harrenburn and Conrad entered. Where does the poor heart
suffer as it does in the chamber of the dead, where lies, as in this instance, the corpse of
a beloved daughter? A hundred objects, little thought of heretofore, present themselves, and
by association with the lost one, assume a power over the survivor. The casual objects of everyday
life rise up and seize a place in the fancy and memory, and, become invested with deep, passionate
interest, as relics of the departed. There is the dress which lately so well became her; there
the little shoes in which she stepped so lightly and gracefully; there the book which she was
reading only yesterday, the satin ribbon still between the pages at which she had arrived when
she laid it down for ever; there the cup from which she drank but a few hours back; there the
toilet, with all its little knick-knacks, and the glass which so often mirrored her sweet face.

Thus Conrad instinctively interpreted the glances which Mr Harrenburn directed at the objects
around him. The bereaved father standing motionless, regarded one thing and then another with
a sort of absent attention, which, under other circumstances, would have appeared like imbecility
or loss of self-command, but now was full of a deeply-touching significance, which roused the
sympathies of the young painter more powerfully than the finest eloquence could have done.
He seemed at first to shun the bed, as if the object lying there were too powerful a source
of grief to bear--seemed to be anxious to discover in some minor souvenirs of sorrow, a preparatory
step, which should enable him to approach with seemly and rational composure the mute wreck
of his beloved child--the cast-shell of the spirit which had been the pride and joy, the hope
and comfort of his life. But presently he succeeded in mastering this sensibility, and approaching
the bed, motioned Conrad to follow him. He gently drew aside the curtain which had concealed
the face of the figure that was lying there. Conrad started. Could that be death? That hair,
so freshly black and glossy; those slightly-parted lips, on which the light of fancy still
seemed to play; the teeth within, so white and healthy-looking; the small, well-shapen hand
and arm, so listlessly laid along the pillow: could these be ready for the grave? It seemed
so much like sleep, and so little like death, that Conrad, who had never looked upon the dead
before, was amazed. When he saw the eyes, however, visible betwixt the partly-opened lids,
his scepticism vanished. The cold, glazed, fixed unmeaningness of them chilled and frightened
him--they did really speak of the tomb.

'My daughter,' said Mr Harrenburn, to whose tone the effort of self-command now communicated
a grave and cold severity. 'She died at four this afternoon, after a very short illness--only
in her twentieth year. I wish to have her represented exactly as she lies now. From the window
there, in the daytime, a strong light is thrown upon this spot; so that I do not think it will
be needful to make any new disposition either of the bed or its poor burden. Your easel and
other matters shall be brought here during the night. I will rouse you at five in the morning,
and you will then, if you please, use your utmost expedition.'

Conrad promised to do all he could to accomplish the desire of the afflicted parent, and after
the latter had approached the bed, leaned over it, and kissed the cold lips of his child, they
left the room to the dead and its silent watchers.

After a solemn and memorable evening, Conrad was shewn to his bedroom, and there dreamed through
the livelong night--now, that he was riding at frightful speed through woods and wilds with
Mr Harrenburn, hurrying with breathless haste to avert some catastrophe that was about to happen
somewhere to some one; now, that he was intently painting a picture of the corpse of a beautiful
young lady--terribly oppressed by nervousness, and a fretful sense of incapacity most injurious
to the success of his labours--when suddenly, O horror! he beheld the body move, then rise,
in a frightful and unnatural manner, stark upright, and with opened lips, but rigidly-clenched
teeth, utter shriek upon shriek as it waved its white arms, and tore its streaming hair; then,
that his landlady, Mrs Farrell, came up to him, as he crouched weeping and trembling by, and
bade him be comforted, for that they who were accustomed to watch by the dead often beheld
such scenes; then that Mr Harrenburn suddenly entered the room, and sternly reproached him
for not proceeding with his work, when, on looking towards the bed, they perceived that the
corpse was gone, and was nowhere to be seen, upon which Mr Harrenburn, with a wild cry, laid
hands upon him, as if to slay him on the spot.

'You do not sleep well.' A hand was gently laid upon his shoulder; a kind voice sounded in
his ear: he opened his eyes; Mr Harrenburn was standing at his bedside. 'You have not slept
well, I regret to find. I have knocked at your door several times, but, receiving no reply,
ventured to enter. I have relieved you from an unpleasant dream, I think.'

Conrad, somewhat embarrassed by the combined influence of the nightmare, and being awakened
suddenly by a stranger in a strange place, informed his host that he always dreamed unpleasantly
when he slept too long, and was sorry that he had given so much trouble.

'It is some minutes past five o'clock,' said Mr Harrenburn. 'Tea and coffee will be waiting
for you by the time you are dressed: doubtless, breakfast will restore you, and put you in
order for your work; for really you have been dreaming in a manner which appeared very painful,
whatever the experience might have been.'

Conrad rose, dressed, breakfasted, and did undoubtedly feel much more comfortable and lighthearted
than during the night. He was shortly conducted to the chamber in which he had received so
many powerful impressions on the preceding evening, and forthwith commenced the task he had
engaged to perform. Conrad was by no means a young man of a romantic or sentimental turn, but
it is not to be wondered at, that his present occupation should produce a deep effect upon
his mind. The form and features he was now endeavouring to portray were certainly the most
beautiful he had as yet exercised his art upon--indeed, without exception, the most beautiful
he had ever beheld. The melancholy spectacle of youth cut off in the first glow of life's brightest
season, and when surrounded by everything that wealth and education can contribute towards
rendering existence brilliant and delightful, can never fail to excite deep and solemn emotion.
As the artist laboured to give a faithful representation of the sweetly serene face, the raven
hair, the marble forehead, the delicately arched brow, the exquisitely formed nose and mouth,
and thought how well such noble beauty seemed to suit one who was fit to die--a pure, spotless,
bright being--he had more than once to pause in his work while he wiped the tears from his
eyes. Few experiences chasten the heart so powerfully as the sight of the early dead; those
who live among us a short while, happy and good, loving and beloved, and then are suddenly
taken away, ere the rough journey of life is well begun, leaving us to travel on through the
perilous and difficult world by ourselves; no more sweet words for us, no more songs, no more
companionship, no more loving counsel and assistance--nothing now, save the remembrance of
beauty and purity departed. How potent is that remembrance against the assaults of evil thoughts!
How impressive the thought of virtue in the shroud!

With one or two necessary intervals, Conrad worked throughout the day, and until the declining
light warned him to desist. The next morning he resumed his pallet, and in about four or five
hours brought his task to a conclusion, taking, in addition to the painting he was commissioned
to make, a small crayon sketch for himself. It was his wish to preserve some memento of what
he regarded as the most remarkable of his experiences, and likewise to possess a 'counterfeit
presentment' of a face the beauty of which he had never seen equalled. Mr Harrenburn expressed
himself highly gratified by the manner in which Conrad had acquitted himself--he only saw the
painting, of course--and taking him into his study, bade him persevere in his art, and paid
him fifty guineas; a sum which almost bereft the young man of his senses, it seemed so vast,
and came so unexpectedly, after all his misgivings, especially in the presence of one who,
to judge from the taste he had exhibited in his collection, must be no ordinary connoisseur.

It is difficult to describe the remarkable influence which this adventure exercised upon the
young artist. His susceptible mind received an impression from this single association with
a scene of death on the one hand, and an appreciating patron on the other, which affected the
whole of his future life. He returned to C----, bade adieu to his landlady and friends, and,
placing himself and his luggage upon the London coach, proceeded to the metropolis. Here, after
looking about him for some time, and taking pains to study the various masters in his art,
he made a respectful application to one who stood among the highest in repute, and whose works
had pleased his own taste and fancy better than any he had seen. After much earnest pleading,
and offering very nearly all the little wealth he possessed, he was accepted as a pupil, to
receive a course of ten lessons. With great assiduity he followed the instructions of the master,
and learned the mysteries of colouring, and a great number of artistic niceties, all tending
to advance him towards perfection of execution. He was really possessed of natural talents
of a high order, and in the development of these he now evinced great acuteness, as well as
industry. His master, an artist who had made a reputation years before, and who had won high
patronage, and earned for himself a large fortune, thus being beyond the reach of any feelings
of professional jealousy, was much delighted with Conrad's progress, was proud to have discovered
and taught an artist of really superior talent; and generously returning to him the money he
had lately received with so much mistrust and even nausea--for a raw pupil is the horror of
cognoscenti--he forthwith established him as his protégé. Thanks to his introduction, Conrad
shortly received a commission of importance, and had the honour of painting the portrait of
one of the most distinguished members of the British aristocracy. He exerted all his powers
in the work, and was rewarded with success; the portrait caused some sensation, and was regarded
as a chef-d'oeuvre. Thus auspiciously wooed, Fortune opened her arms, and gave him a place
among her own favoured children. The first success was succeeded by others, commission followed
commission; and, to be brief, after four years of incessant engagements and unwearied industry,
he found himself owner of a high reputation and a moderate independence.

During all this time, and throughout the dazzling progress of his fortunes, the crayon sketch
of poor Miss Harrenburn was preserved and prized, and carried wherever he went with never-failing
care and solicitude. Sanctified by indelible associations, it was to him a sacred amulet--a
charm against evil thoughts, a stimulant to virtue and purity--this picture of the young lady
lying dead, gone gently to the last account in the midst of her beauty and untainted goodness.
Its influence made him a pure-minded, humble, kind, and charitable man. Living quietly and
frugally, he constantly devoted a large proportion of his extensive earnings to the relief
of the miseries of the unfortunate; and such traits did not pass without due recognition: few
who knew him spoke of his great talents without bearing testimony to the beauty of his moral
character.

But everything may be carried to excess; even the best feelings may be cherished to an inordinate
degree. Many of the noblest characters the world has produced have overreached their intentions,
and sunk into fanaticism. Conrad, in the fourth year of his success, was fast merging from
a purist into an ascetic; he began to weary of the world, and to desire to live apart from
it, employing his life, and the fortune he had already accumulated, solely in works of charity
and beneficence. While in this state of mind, he determined to proceed on a continental tour.
After spending some time in France, where many an Hôtel Dieu was benefited by his bounty, he
travelled into Switzerland. At Chamouni, he made a stay of some days, residing in the cottage
of an herbalist named Wegner, in preference to using the hotels so well known to tourists.

One evening, he had walked some distance along the road towards Mont Blanc, and, in a tranquil
and contemplative mood, had paused to watch the various effects of sunset. He leaned against
a tree by the roadside, at the corner of a path which led from the highway to a private residence.
Again it was August, exactly four years since he had quitted C----, exactly four years since
the most singular event of his life had occurred. He took from his breast the little crayon
sketch, carefully preserved in a black morocco-case, and, amid the most beautiful scenery in
the world, gave way to a reverie in which the past blended with the future--his thoughts roaming
from the heavenly beauty of the death-bed scene to the austere sanctity of St Bernard or La
Trappe. Strange fancies for one who had barely completed his twenty-seventh year, and who was
in the heyday of fame and fortune! Suddenly, the sound of approaching footsteps was heard.
Conrad hastily closed the morocco-case, replaced it in his breast, and was preparing to continue
his walk, when an elegant female figure abruptly emerged from the bypath; and the features,
turned fully towards him--O Heavens!--who could mistake? The very same he had painted!--the
same which had dwelt in his heart for years! The shock was too tremendous: without a sigh or
exclamation, Conrad fell senseless to the ground.

When he revived, he found himself lying upon a sofa in a well-furnished chamber, with the well-remembered
form and features of Mr Harrenburn bending over him. It seemed as if the whole course of the
last four years had been a long dream--that Mr Harrenburn, in fact, was rousing him to perform
the task for which he had sought him out at C----. For awhile Conrad was dreadfully bewildered.

'I can readily comprehend this alarm and amazement,' said his host, holding Conrad's hand,
and shaking it as if it were that of an old friend, newly and unexpectedly met. 'But be comforted;
you have not seen a spirit, but a living being, who, after undergoing a terrible and perilous
crisis four years ago, awoke from her death-sleep to heal her father's breaking heart, and
has since been his pride and joy as of yore--her health completely restored, and her heart
and mind as light and bright as ever.'

'Indeed!--indeed!' gasped Conrad.

