A LIMB OF THE LAW, to a portion of whose Query, in No. 2. (p. 29.), the above is intended as
a reply, may consult, on the symbolism of the Hand and Glove, Grimm Deutsches Rechtsaltherthümer,
pp. 137. and 152, and on the symbolical use of white in judicial proceedings, and the after
feastings consequent thereon, pp. 137. 381. and 869. of the same learned work.

[On this subject we have received a communication from F.G.S., referring to Brand's Popular
Antiquities, vol. ii. p. 79, ed. 1841, for a passage from Fuller's Mixed Contemplations, London,
1660, which proves the existence of the practice at the time; and to another in Clavell's Recantation
of an Ill-led Life, London, 1634, to show that prisoners, who received pardon after condemnation,
were accustomed to present gloves to the judges:--

    "Those pardoned men who taste their prince's loves, (As married to
    new life) do give you gloves."]

Mr. Editor,--"Anciently it was prohibited the Judges to wear gloves on the bench; and at present
in the stables of most princes it is not safe going in without pulling off the gloves."--Chambers'
Cyclopaedia, A.D. MDCCXLI.

Was the presentation of the gloves a sign that the Judge was not required to sit upon the Bench--their
colour significant that there would be no occasion for capital punishment? Embroidered gloves
were introduced about the year 1580 into England.

Or were gloves proscribed as the remembrances of the gauntlet cast down as a challenge? "This
is the form of a trial by battle; a trial which the tenant or defendant in a writ of right
has it in his election at this day to demand, and which was the only decision of such writ
of right after the Conquest, till Henry II, by consent of Parliament, introduced the Grand
Assise, a peculiar species of trial by jury."--Blackstone, Commentaries, vol. iii. p. 340.
Perhaps after all it was only an allusion to the white hand of Justice, as seems probably from
the expression Maiden-Assize.

Yours, &c. M.W.

Nov. 17. 1849.

P.S. Perhaps the "Lady-bird" in Suffolk derives its episcopal title, alluded to by LEGOUR,
from appearing in June, in which month falls the Festival of St. Barnabas.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVERSARIA.

Don Quixote.

Sir,--Have the following contradictions in Cervantes' account of Sancho's ass "Dapple" ever
been noticed or accounted for?

In Don Quixote, Part. I. chap. 23, we find Dapple's abduction at night by Gines de Passamonte;
only a few lines afterwards, lo! Sancho is seated on her back, sideways, like a woman, eating
his breakfast. In spite of which, chap. 25. proves that she is still missing. Sancho tacitly
admits the fact, by invoking "blessings on the head of the man who had saved him the trouble
of unharnessing her." Chap. 30. contains her rescue from Passamonte.

MELANION.

Doctor Dove, of Doncaster.

The names of "Doctor Dove, of Doncaster," and his steed "Nobbs," must be familiar to all the
admirers, in another word, to all the readers, of Southey's Doctor.

Many years ago there was published at Canterbury a periodical work called The Kentish Register.
In the No. for September, 1793, there is a ludicrous letter, signed "Agricola," addressed to
Sir John Sinclair, then President of the Royal Agricultural Society; and in that letter there
is frequent mention made of "Doctor Dobbs, of Doncaster, and his horse Nobbs." This coincidence
appears to be too remarkable to have been merely accidental; and it seems probably that, in
the course of his multifarious reading, Southey had met with the work in question, had been
struck with the comical absurdity of these names, and had unconsciously retained them in his
memory.

P.C.S.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

INSCRIPTION ON ANCIENT CHURCH PLATE.

Mr. Editor,--Herewith I have the pleasure of sending you a tracing of the legend round a representation
of St. Christopher, in a latten dish belonging to a friend of mine, and apparently very similar
to the alms-basins described by CLERICUS in No. 3.

The upper line--"In Frid gichwart der," written from right to left, is no doubt to be read
thus: Derin Frid gichwart. The lower line contains the same words transposed, with the variation
of "gehwart" for "gichwart." The words "gehwart" and "gichwart" being no doubt blunders of
an illiterate artist.

In Modern German the lines would be:--

    Darin Frieden gewarte--Therein peace await, or look for. Gewarte
    darin Frieden--Await, or look for, therein peace.

In allusion, perhaps, to the eucharist of alms, to hold one or the other of which the dish
seems to have been intended.

þ.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTES OF BOOKS.

MS. of English Gesta Romanorum.

Your work, which has so promising a commencement, may be regarded as, in one department, a
depository of anecdotes of books. Under this head I should be disposed to place Notes of former
possessors of curious or important volumes: and, as a contribution of this kind, I transmit
a Note on the former possessors of the MS. of the Gesta Romanorum in English, which was presented
to the British Museum in 1832, by the Rev. W.D. Conybeare, now Dean of Llandaff, and has been
printed at the expense of a member of Roxburgh Club. It is No. 9066 of the MSS. call Additional.

Looking at it some years ago, when I had some slight intention of attacking the various MSS.
of the Gesta in the Museum, I observed the names of Gervase Lee and Edward Lee, written on
a fly-leaf, in the way in which persons usually inscribe their names in books belonging to
them; and it immediately occurred to me that these could be no other Lees than members of the
family of Lee of Southwell, in Nottinghamshire, who claimed to descent from a kinsman of Edward
Lee, who was Archbishop of York in the reign of Henry VIII, and who is so unmercifully handled
by Erasmus. The name of Gervase was much used by this family of Lee, and as there was in it
an Edward Lee who had curious books in the time of Charles II, about whose reign the names
appears to have been written, there can, I think, be little reasonable doubt that this most
curious MS. formed a part of his library, and of his grandfather or father, Gervase Lee, before
him.

Edward Lee, who seems to have been the last of the name who lived in the neighbourhood of Southwell,
died on the 23rd of April, 1712, aged 76.

That he possessed rare books I collect from this: that the author of Grammatica Reformata,
12mo. 1683, namely John Twells, Master of the Free School at Newark, says, in his preface,
that he owed the opportunity of perusing Matthew of Westminster "to the kindness of that learned
patron of learning, Edward Lee, of Norwell, Esquire."

And now, having given you a Note, I will add a Query, and ask, Can any one inform me what became
of this library, or who were the representatives and heirs of Edward Lee, through whom this
MS. may have passed to Mr. Conybeare, or give me any further particulars respecting this Edward
Lee?

A person who asks a question in such a publication as yours ought to endeavour to answer one.
I add therefore that Mr. Thorpe--no mean authority on such a point--in his Catalogue for 1834,
No. 1234, says the E.F. in the title-page of The Life of King Edward II, represents "E. Falkland:"
but he does not tell us who E. Falkland was, and it is questionable whether there was any person
so named living at the time when the book in question was written. There was no Edward Lord
Falkland before the reign of William III. Also, in answer to Dr. Maitland's Query respecting
the fate of Bindley's copy of Borde's Dyetary of Health, 1567, in a priced copy of the Catalogue
now before me, the name of Rodd stands as the purchaser for eleven shillings.

JOSEPH HUNTER.

Nov. 26. 1849

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES ANSWERED, NO. 3.

A Flemish Account, &c.

The readiness with which we adopt a current saying, though unaware of its source and therefore
somewhat uncertain as to the proper mode of applying it, is curiously exemplified by the outstanding
query on the origin and primary signification of the phrase A Flemish account.

I have consulted, in search of it, dictionaries of various dates, the glossaries of our dramatic
annotators, and the best collections of proverbs and proverbial sayings--but without success.

The saying casts no reproach on the Flemings. It always means, I believe that the sum to be
received turns out less than had been expected. It is a commercial joke, and admits of explanation
by reference to the early commercial transactions between the English and the Flemings.

I rely on the authority of The merchants mappe of commerce, by Lewes Roberts, London, 1638,
folio, chap. 179:--

    In Antwerp, which gave rule in trade to most other cities, the
    accounts were kept in livres, sols, and deniers; which they termed
    pounds, shillings, and pence of grosses. Now the livre was equal
    only to twelve shillings sterling, so that while the Antwerp
    merchant stated a balance of 1l. 13s. 4d., the London merchant would
    receive only 1l.--which he might fairly call A Flemish account!

The same instructive author furnishes me with a passage in illustration of a recent question
on the three golden balls, which seem to require additional research. It occurs in chap. 181:--

    "This citie [Bruges] hath an eminent market in place with a publicke
    house for the meeting of all marchants, at noone and evening:
    which house was called the Burse, of the houses of the extinct
    families Bursa, bearing three purses for their armes, ingraven
    upon their houses, from whence these meeting places to this day are
    called Burses in many countries, which in London wee know by the
    name of the Royall Exchange and of Britaines Burse."

BOLTON CORNEY.

I think it probably that the expression "Flemish Account" may have been derived from the fact
that the Flemish ell measures only three quarters of our yard, while the English ell measures
five quarters, and that thence the epithet Flemish was adopted as denoting something deficient.

Q.Q.

When commerce was young, the Flemings were the great merchants of Western Europe; but these
worthies were notorious, when furnishing their accounts current, for always having the balance
at the right side (for themselves), and hence arose the term. I am not at this moment able
to say where this information is to be had, but have met it somewhere.

JUNIOR.

I wonder that some better scholar than myself should not have explained the phrase "Flemish
account;" but though I cannot quote authority for the precise expression, I may show whence
it is derived. To flem, in old Scotch (and in old English too, I believe), is to "run away;"
in modern slang, to "make oneself scarce," "to levant." Flemen is an outcast, an outlaw. It
is easy to understand the application of the word to accounts. Your querist should consult
some of the old dictionaries.

SCOTUS.

There is an old story that a Count of Flanders once gave an entertainment to some Flemish merchants,
but that the seats on which they sat were without cushions. These "princes of the earth" thereupon
folded up their costly velvet cloaks, and used them accordingly. When reminded, on their departure,
of having left their cloaks behind, they replied, that when asked to a feast they were not
in the habit of carrying away with them the chair cushions. Could this have originated the
expression "Flemish account?" In this case the proud merchants gave such an account of a valuable
article in their possession, as made it out to be quite worthless to the owner.

MUSAFIR.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO MINOR QUERIES.

Richard Greene, Apothecary.

Mr. Richard Green, the subject of H.T.E.'s Query (No. 3. p. 43.), was an apothecary at Lichfield,
and related to Dr. Johnson. He had a considerable collection of antiquities, &c., called "Green's
Museum," which was sold, after his death, for a thousand pounds. See Boswell's Johnson, Croker's
edition, vol. v. p. 194.

       *       *       *       *       *

Form of Petition.

Sir,--In reply to B. in your third number, who requests information as to the meaning of the
"&c." at the foot of a petition, I fear I must say, that at the present day, it means nothing
at all. In former times it had a meaning. I send you a few instances from the Chancery Records
of the year 1611. These petitions to Sir E. Phillips or Phelips, M.R., end thus:--

    "And he and his wife and six children shall dailie praie for your
    Worship's health and happines!

    "And shee shall accordinge to her bounden duetie pray for your good
    Worship in health and happinesse longe to continewe!

    "And both your said supliants and their children shal be bound
    dailie to praie for your Worship's health and happines with increase
    of honour!"

These instances are taken at random from amongst many others. The formula, slightly varied,
is the same in all. The modern form was, however, even at that early date, creeping in, for
I see a petition to L.C. Ellesmere, of the same year, has

    "And he shall dailie, praie, &c."

This will probably suffice to answer B.'s Query.

CECIL MONRO.

Registrar's Office, Court of Chancery, Nov. 20. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

Greene of Greensnorton.

Sir Thomas Greene, of Greensnorton, Co. Northampton, Knt. died 30 Nov. 1506--22 Hen. VII. By
Jane, daughter of Sir John Fogge, Knt., he left issue two daughters and coheirs:

Ann, the eldest, aet. 17, at her father's death, was wife of Nicholas Vaux, Lord Vaux, of Harrowden,
who died in 1556, now represented by George Mostyn, Baron Vaux, and Robert Henry, Earl of Pembroke,
and Edward Bourchier Hartopp, Esq.

Matilda, the youngest, was aged 14 at her father's death, and married Sir Thomas Parr, by whom
she had William Marquess of Northampton (who died s.p. 1571); Anne, wife of William Herbert,
Earl of Pembroke (now represented by Robert Henry, Earl of Pembroke); and Catherine, Queen
Consort of King Henry VIII. The assumption of arms, by Richard Green, the Apothecary, in 1770,
will afford no ground for presuming his descent from the Greensnorton family.

G.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cottle's Life of Coleridge, when reviewed in the Times.

The Times review of Joseph Cottle's Reminiscences of Coleridge and Southey, appeared Nov. 3.
1847; and on the following day, Mr. Thomas Holcroft complained by letter of a misrepresentation
of his father by Mr. Cottle.

*

       *       *       *       *       *

Times, Herald, Chronicle, &c., when first established.

We are enabled, by the courtesy of several correspondents, to furnish some reply to the Query
of D. (No. 1 p. 7)

