Thus then, by substituting elementary for physical power, we have comfort for comparative inconvenience--the
inside of an elegant apartment, where books, amusement, or general conversation may occupy
agreeably the time--for the outside of a hard, unsafe stage conveyance, and exposure to all
changes or varieties of atmosphere. Nay, we see no reason to prevent such improvement in steam-carriages
as shall fit them up like steam-boats, the campaigning carriage of Napoleon, or the travelling
long coach of the present Duke of Orleans, with beds, and a furnished table. We have besides
safety for danger--accelerated speed without inhumanity--gain of time--of accommodation--of
money--and over and above all, as a non-consumer of food, we have by the substitution what
will remove the host of Malthusian ills to a period of almost indefinite duration.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD POETS.

       *       *       *       *       *

EYES AND TEARS.

  How wisely Nature did decree
  With the same eyes to weep and see!
  Like wat'ry lines and plummets fall.
  Two tears, with sorrow long did weigh,
  Within the scales of either eye,
  And then paid out in equal poise,
  Are the true price of all my joys.
  What in the world most fair appears,
  Yea, even laughter, turns to tears:
  And all the jewels which we prize,
  Melt in these pendents of the eyes.
  I have through every garden been,
  Amongst the red, the white, the green;
  And yet from all those flow'rs I saw,
  No honey, but these tears could draw.
  So the all-seeing sun each day,
  Distils the world with chemic ray;
  But finds the essence only showers,
  Which straight in pity back he pours.
  Now, like two clouds dissolving, drop,
  And at each tear in distance stop:
  Now, like two fountains, trickle down:
  Now like two floods o'er-run and drown:
  Thus lot your streams o'erflow your springs,
  Till eyes and tears be the same things;
  And each the other's difference bears;
  These weeping eyes, those seeing tears.

MARVELL.

    (From a neatly-printed Life of the Poet, by John Dove.)

       *       *       *       *       *

A DROP OF DEW.

  See, how the orient dew
    Shed from the bosom of the morn,
      Into the blowing roses,
  Yet careless of its mansion new,
    For the clear region where 'twas born
      Round in itself incloses:
  And in its little globe's extent,
  Frames, as it can, its native element.
      How it the purple flow'r does slight,
    Scarce touching where it lies;
    But gazing back upon the skies,
      Shines with a mournful light,
  Like its own tear,
  Because so long divided from the sphere.
    Restless it rolls, and unsecure,
    Trembling, lest it grows impure;
    Till the warm sun pities its pain,
    And to the skies exhales it back again.
    So the soul, that drop, that ray,
    Of the clear fountain of eternal day,
  Could it within the human flow'r be seen,
    Rememb'ring still its former height,
  Shuns the sweet leaves, and blossoms green;
    And, recollecting its own light,
  Does, in its pure and circling thoughts, express
  The greater heaven in an heaven less,
    In how coy a figure wound,
      Every way it turns away:
    So the world excluding round,
      Yet receiving in the day.
  Dark beneath, but bright above;
  Here disdaining, there in love,
    How loose and easy hence to go;
      How girt and ready to ascend:
    Moving but on a point below,
      It all about does upward bend.
  Such did the Manna's sacred dew distil,
  White and entire, although congeal'd and chill;
  Congeal'd on earth; but does, dissolving run
  Into the glories of th' almighty sun.

IBID.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS, REGENT'S PARK.

We recommend such of our London friends and visiters from the country as have not lately passed
an hour or two in the Zoological Gardens, to do so without further delay. The present season
is warm and genial, and the rejoicing rays of the morning and noontide sun enliven the tenants
of this mimic world in a garden.

The present Cuts represent a few of the recent improvements in the Zoological Gardens, as,
the addition of the clock-house and weathercock[5] to the Llama House.

    [5] By the way, a natural weathercock instead of the gilded
    vane, as defined by Brown, would have been a rara avis: "A
    kingfisher hanged by the bill, converting the breast to that
    point of the horizon whence the wind doth blow, is a very
    strange introducing of natural weathercocks."

Opposite is the sloping gravel walk leading from the Terrace; and a large cage for Parrots,
Parrakeets, Macaws, and Cockatoos, whose brilliant colours are here seen to advantage in the
resplendent beams of a September sun. In the distance are the Bear Pole and Shed for Goats.

The next Cut includes the House and Enclosure for Armadillos, who are, in sunny weather, located
here with a "select few" rabbits. The innocent gambols and restless run of the Armadillo over
the turf are here seen to advantage. This house as the distance of the Cut shows, is not far
from the Llama House and circular Aviary.

Thus far in the Southern Garden, whence we reach the Northern by the Tunnel beneath the Park-road,
as figured in The Mirror, No. 535, opposite to the end of the tunnel is a large squirrel-cage,
and at the extremity of the walk to the right is a spacious building, called the Repository
"the inhabitants of which are continually being changed as variations in the weather, or any
other cause may render convenient." We last saw there the noble Lions from the Tower, together
with the Hyaena, Jackal, Ichneumons, Coatimondis, besides an assemblage of splendid tropical
birds. The exterior of the building, especially the ornamented gable and doorways, is picturesque.

Repassing the Squirrel Cage, the visiter must next proceed along the straight gravelled walk,
which leads towards the western extremity of the North Garden. Here is a range of buildings,
among which is the Stable and enclosed Yard for Deer; Among which are specimens of the Wapiti,
remarkable for its size and the amplitude of its branching horns when full grown. Next is the
Stable and Enclosure for Elephants, opposite the capacious Bath already represented in The
Mirror, No. 560.

In a fortnight we may probably resume our graphic visit to this most interesting resort.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VOICE OF HUMANITY.

"The Association for promoting Rational Humanity towards the Animal Creation" exists--though,
in one sense, as a blot upon the character of the age. They publish the above Journal quarterly,
assembling acts of atrocity which make the blood curdle in our veins, and remind us that "all
are not men that wear the human form." The funds of the society are not in a prosperous condition;
the sand of their philanthropy is well nigh run out, and fresh appeals are to be made. Let
us glance at the contents of, the Voice before us. The subject "Abattoirs contrasted with Slaughter-houses
and Smithfield-market," is continued--a plan which we illustrated in The Mirror about five
years since. True enough the Society write, but the people do not consider; they are so wedded
to old prejudices and habits, and the mammon of money, that pestilential slaughter-houses are
tolerated in the midst of a "city of the plague," notwithstanding a law exists for its prevention.
Four hospitals are building in the metropolis--and markets are increasing for the sale of the
necessaries and luxuries of life; the Haymarket has been removed from a fashionable quarter
to the suburbs, that loaded carts may not obstruct carriages in their road to St. James's,
the Houses of Parliament, and the Opera--yet, not a single, Abattoir--for the health of the
people--exists near the metropolis. The King and the Court patronize and plan horse-racing,
throwing the lasso, and, if recent report be true, hawking; the Parliament legislate, a bill
is "ordered to be printed"--yet, the inconsistency and tardiness of these proceedings compel
us to ask, where is the truth of the motto--Salus populi suprema lex. Convictions before magistrates
for acts of cruelty are not uncommon; yet, it is in this, as in many other laws, the poor are
caught, while the rich break through the meshes of the net. In the work before us are recorded
Mr. Osbaldeston's matches, including "the cold-blooded cruelty towards the generous and heart-broken
Rattler, in riding him thirty-four miles in the space of 2 hours, 18 min., and 56 sec." Next
are four police cases of cruelties towards horses, bullocks, and cats, the persons convicted
being "of low estate." Yet there follows the fact of a respectable woman boiling a cat to death!
and next is this quotation from the Gentleman's Magazine for April, 1789:--

"Died, April 4, at Tottenham, John Ardesoif, Esq.; a young man of large fortune, and in the
splendour of his carriages and horses rivalled by few country gentlemen. His table was that
of hospitality, where it may be said he sacrificed too much to conviviality. Mr. Ardesoif was
fond of cock-fighting, and he had a favourite cock upon which he had won many profitable matches.
The last bet he made upon this cock he lost; which so enraged him, that he had the bird tied
to a spit, and roasted alive before a large fire. The screams of the miserable animal were
so affecting, that some gentlemen who were present attempted to interfere, which so exasperated
Mr. Ardesoif, that he seized the poker; and, with the most furious vehemence, declared that
he would kill the first man who interfered; but, in the midst of his passionate assertions,
he fell down dead upon the spot!"

If we be asked whether it be proper to regard all such dispensations as judicial inflictions,
we reply in the words of Cowper above:

  "'Tis not for us, with rash surmise,
  To point the judgments of the skies,
    But judgments plain as this,
  That, sent for man's instruction, bring
  A written label on their wing,
    'Tis hard to read amiss."

[A contribution full of touching simplicity follows:]

THE WORM.

  The sun, the moon, the stars, he made
    To all his creatures free;
  And spread o'er earth the grassy blade
    For worms as well as thee.

  Let them enjoy their little day,
    Their lowly hiss receive;
  Oh! do not lightly take away
    The life thou canst not give.

Here we may remark, that much wanton cruelty has been abolished by the extended education of
the people. Brutal sports among boys are much less indulged than formerly, and the worrying
of domestic animals almost invariably denotes a bad boy, in the worst sense of the phrase,
likely to make a bad man; "so true to nature is the admirable aphorism of Wordsworth:--

    The boy's the father of the man."

But we do not so much complain of boyish as of adult cruelties; though, according to the above
showing, such atrocities will be less rare in the next than in the present generation. To conclude,
we hope that the present notice may awaken the sympathy of the reader towards the laudable
objects of the Society, under whose guidance the Voice of Humanity is published. It is a difficult
matter to point out "the uneducated," and writers of all grades are eternally babbling of our
high state of civilization and refinement, yet, we repeat, the necessity of this association
is an anomaly which amounts to a national disgrace.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

VISIT TO THE SUMMIT OF MOUNT ETNA.

BY LIEUTENANT G.H.P. WHITE, ROYAL NAVY.

On the evening of the 13th of July, 1830, I set off from Catania with a party of my messmates,
to ascend Mount Etna, taking the necessary guides, and two sumpter mules to carry the provisions,
&c., as nothing in that way can be procured after leaving Nicolosi, which is a small village
about twelve miles from Catania. Etna is divided by the Sicilians into three several regions.
The first is called Piè de Montagna, the second Nemerosa, and the third Discoperta. The ascent,
though very gradual, commences immediately on leaving the city of Catania, over a tolerably
constructed road; the country around is formed on an ancient volcanic soil; probably the third
eruption mentioned by Thucydides, which happened in the sixth year of the Peloponnesian war,
and the second of the eighty-eighth Olympiad. Traversing the lands of Battianti, and St. Giovanni
della Punta, the road is constantly over the lava, and the country on either side is delicious.
Trecastagne, nine miles from Catania, is seated on the acclivity of a high volcanic mountain.
The scene here is beautiful and picturesque. Near the principal church the view is most extensive.
Towards the east the mountains of Calabria, the sea stretching from Taormina to Catania, bathing
the sides of Etna, covered with vineyards, woods and villages: northward rises the mountain
itself, surrounded by its progeny of pigmy mountains; these have been thrown up in various
forms, composed principally of cinders, and covered with rich vegetation. The freshness of
the air, the beauty and picturesque situations of the houses surrounded by lofty and fine trees,
the over-teeming fertility of the soil, and the laughing fields, where golden Ceres still lingers,
unwilling to quit her favourite abode, intersected by courses of lava, as yet unproductive,
make this view one of the most beautiful and interesting that can be imagined. These mighty
streams of once liquid fire, extending in many places ten miles in length, by two or three
in breadth, fill the mind with horror and astonishment: that such wondrous masses, consisting
of earths, stones, and minerals, fused and mixed, could be driven forth in one wild current
from the mountain, makes us pause, and confounds any attempt to reason on the phenomena.--And,
although the lava for many centuries lays waste the superincumbent land, yet, after a certain,
but very long period, it is brought by human industry into such a state as to become the richest
soil for cultivation: but when we reflect on the necessity of some ages to effect this wished-for
state of decomposition, we bewilder the mind without arriving at any certain conclusion. When
this process is duly effected, the cactus opuntia, or prickly pear, is planted, which hastens
the desired event, and has the power to break up the lava, and render it fit for productive
purposes. Five miles from Trecastagne is Nicolosi, a small village which has often suffered
from the fire-vomiting mountain. Here we supped, and baited the mules for two hours. Nicolosi,
according to Signor Gemmellero, a Sicilian physician, long resident at Catania, is two thousand
one hundred and twenty-eight feet above the level of the sea, and its mean temperature 64° Fahr.

From hence, to an almost interminable extent, there is a most superb view of the surrounding
country; nothing can be more varied, grand, and sublime; every spot spared by the all-devastating
lavas, is highly cultivated; the vines and other productive fruit-trees are seen laden with
the most delicious fruits; the groves of olives, the towns and villages, in almost endless
aerial perspective, all terminated by the distant and deep-blue sea, form a scene the most
enchanting that can be conceived. We remounted about ten o'clock, P.M., our trusty mules, and
pursued or journey. The evening was deliciously serene, the stars shone with extraordinary
brilliancy, and the sky appeared intensely blue, while the galaxy, or milky way, beamed like
a splendid stream of light across the azure expanse.

The cool breezes now wafted from the upper regions of the mountain were very refreshing, and
exhilarated our spirits in an extraordinary degree. Passed Monte Rosso, which is about 600
feet above the level of the surrounding plain, and is said to have been thrown up during the
great eruption of the year 1669, and from which issued that horrible stream of burning lava,
which, after destroying the country for the length of fourteen miles, ran into the sea at Catania.

About six miles higher up commences the Nemerosa region, which, like a beautiful green girdle,
encircles the mountain; it abounds with ancient hillocks, and lava of different periods, and
is almost covered with frowning woods of oak, holm, beech and pines, on the more elevated points.

After enjoying for some time this stupendous and enchanting treat, we kept torturing and progressing,
lost in pleasing reveries caused by the fairy scene.

Halted at the upper boundary of the forest region, to refresh our mules, and exchange our light
clothing for garments of a warmer texture, as the wind now blew cool and somewhat chilly; for
the temperature of this spot was about 50°, while that of Catania, which we had only left a
few hours ago, was about 84° Fahr.

The road, on leaving our resting-place, became tedious and cheerless; hardly any vegetation
was discoverable, and still wilder regions appeared above us. The path now lay over masses
of rough lava; so much so, that at times it became necessary to dismount and actually drag
our jaded animals over the rugged precipices which obstructed our progress: the intricacy of
the path required us to follow one another very closely, that we might not lose the track,
which became so tortuous in its course, as would puzzle any one but a muleteer accustomed to
the road to find the clue of this volcanic labyrinth in the darkness of night.

After much anxious travelling over wastes of cinders and black sand, we seemed to be approaching
near the wished-for summit; when, about two o'clock, A.M., the moon, now shorn of her beams,
queen like, arose behind the bifurcated summit of Etna; her cheering light was very grateful
to us in this wild spot. The awful cone of the mountain pillowed against the heavens, and emitting
clouds of silvery white smoke from its burning crater, had a grand effect at this solemn hour
of the night.

At three o'clock, arrived at the Casa Inglese, a rude hut built by the English troops when
stationed in Sicily, during the late war. Here it became again necessary to halt a little to
put on some extra clothing. As soon as this was accomplished, the signal for the ascent was
made by the guides giving each person of the party a long staff, to assist him in clambering
the steeps, as the mules could not proceed any further, owing to the nature and fatigue of
the ascent. The first portion of the road lay over large broken masses of lava, most wearisome
to scramble over. On approaching nearer the apex, the path was over cinders, fine black sand,
and scoria. In wading through this compound the ascent became so difficult and fatiguing, that
we were all under the necessity of reposing every twenty or thirty yards, tormented by the
sulphureous vapour, which rendered respiration painful, and was even less supportable than
the abruptness of the mountain path!

