The covers were removed in a twinkling by the servitors, the carvers clattered their knives
and forks impatiently; but what was the surprise of all, when every dish as it was uncovered
was found to be empty. The wrath of the abbess rose at the sight, and the zeal of the nuns
knew no bounds in seconding her indignation. The cook was hurriedly sent for. He stood before
the excited sisterhood an abject, trembling wretch, far more like one who expected to be made
a victim of himself, than one who would voluntarily make victims of others.

"How is this, villain?" exclaimed the abbess, her face reddening with rage.

"How's this, villain?" echoed threescore female voices, some of them not musical.

"Ay, how is this, hound?" growled the purveyor.

"Do you mock us?" continued the abbess, as the cook stood trembling and silent.

"Do you mock us?" echoed the purveyor, with as much dignity as he could impart into his thin,
meagre figure.

"Speak!" said the abbess in a loud voice, while the cook cast his eyes around as if seeking
aid against the excited throng the room contained,--"speak!"

Thus urged, the cook proceeded to explain--as far, at least, as he was able. He declared that
he had cut up and cooked the sturgeon, according to the directions he had received from the
purveyor, and that, when dinner was served up, he had sent them up dressed in the manner that
official had directed.

The abbess and her nuns were much puzzled how to explain this extraordinary occurrence, and
each busied herself in conjectures which, as usual in such cases, never approached the fact.
At this juncture the aged fisherman entered the room.

"My lady," he said to the abbess, when he learnt what had occurred, "it is the judgment of
Heaven. Even now I saw the fish in the river. I knew them well, and I'll swear to them if necessary.
They floated away, swimming down the stream, and I am a much mistaken man if ever ye see them
any more."

The pleasurable anticipations of the day that the sisters had entertained were completely annihilated;
but it would have been well for them if the consequences of their avarice and gluttony had
ended with that hour. Never more did the sturgeon make their appearance, and the part of the
stream which pertained to the convent thenceforth ceased to produce fish of any kind whatsoever.

People say that the Reformation had the effect of wooing the finny tribe back to their old
haunts. At all events, whatever may have been the cause, it is the fact that there is not at
present a less plentiful supply in this spot than there is in any other part of that rich river.

SAINT ANDREW'S NIGHT.

It is commonly believed in Germany that on St. Andrew's night, St. Thomas' night, and Christmas
and New Year's nights, a girl has the power of inviting and seeing her future lover. A table
is to be laid for two persons, taking care, however, that there are no forks upon it. Whatever
the lover leaves behind him must be carefully preserved, for he then returns to her who has
it, and loves her passionately. The article must, however, be kept carefully concealed from
his sight, for he would otherwise remember the torture of superhuman power exercised over him
which he that night endured, become conscious of the charms employed, and this would lead to
fatal consequences.

A fair maiden in Austria once sought at midnight, after performing the necessary ceremonies,
to obtain a sight of her lover, whereupon a shoemaker appeared having a dagger in his hand,
which he threw at her and then disappeared. She picked up the dagger which he had thrown at
her and concealed it in a trunk.

Not long afterwards the shoemaker visited, courted, and married her. Some years after her marriage
she chanced to go one Sunday about the hour of vespers to the trunk in search of something
that she required for her work the next day. As she opened the trunk her husband came to her,
and would insist on looking into it. She kept him off, until at last he pushed her away, and
there saw his long-lost dagger. He immediately seized it, and demanded how she obtained it,
because he had lost it at a very particular time. In her fear and alarm she had not the power
to invent any excuse, so declared the truth, that it was the same dagger he had left behind
him the night when she had obliged him to appear to her. Her husband hereupon grew enraged,
and said, with a terrible voice--

"'Twas you, then, that caused me that night of dreadful misery?"

With that he thrust the dagger into her heart.

    Printed by T. and A. CONSTABLE, Printers to Her Majesty,
    at the Edinburgh University Press.

Hyphenation has been made consistent.

Archaic and variable spelling is preserved as printed.

The advertising material has been moved to follow the title page.

The last two stories were omitted from the Table of Contents in the original. These have been
added.