It may not be amiss, here, to say a few words as regards his subsequent history, as related
by the Owl. After that somewhat untoward incident, he was not warmly received into the ranks
of the Salvation Army. A coldness sprang up which, though not inexplicable, had the unfortunate
effect of causing our Nihilist to renounce connection with that body. The influences which
they had brought to bear upon him, however, did not so easily pass away, and it was in the
continued glow of pious enthusiasm that he joined a Dissenting Society, in which respectability
and fervour were happily combined, and which, accusing the Salvation Army of the fervour without
the respectability, regarded the Nihilist as an interesting martyr of unjust suspicion. For
two months he remained in this society, and rose to the post of deacon, or what corresponded
to deacon in their system; but at the end of that time his native bias proved too strong for
him. With singular injudiciousness he brought to the Sunday evening service a hymn-book carefully
constructed, including the hymns of the society, and also a small but superlatively powerful
block of explosive material, arranged to go off at the moment in which the collection was being
taken up. So confident was he of the excellent workmanship of this article that he did not
scruple even to write his name in it, and to leave it in the pew, assured that, once exploded,
no trace of its ownership would remain. He then left before the collection--a thing which he
had been repeatedly known to do before, and which struck the congregation with no alarm. But,
from the pew behind, an eye was upon him. It was the eye of the Professor. What was the Professor!
doing there? The answer was simple enough. He was writing a book on 'Competition, and the Survival
of the Fittest, as displayed in Modern Sectarianism,' and he had come to this! dissenting place
of worship in quest; of information. Always ardent in the pursuit of knowledge, he entered
the Nihilist's pew the moment that individual left it, and began to scan the leaves of the
hymn-book. To his infinite amazement, on turning over page 227, he came upon a cunning piece
of machinery, not a musical-box, like those one comes to unexpectedly in the midst of photograph
albums, but a "chef d'ouvre" of Donovan's own, smouldering away at a great rate. The time was
just up; the collection-boxes were being handed round; instant destruction seemed inevitable,
when, to the amazement of the congregation, the Professor, starting up, rushed to the altar,
and, with the cool forethought and intrepidity so eminently characteristic of that gifted man,
dropped the hymn-book into the large font, then full of water. The ignited wick ceased to smoulder;
the peril was averted.

But the Nihilist was sought for in vain by the civil authorities. Glancing back at the threshold
of the building, he had caught sight of the Professor, and, as if fascinated to the spot, he
had watched him take up the fatal hymn-book. Then, with an instant presentiment of the consequences,
he had rushed away. He has since joined the Parsees, and the Democrat, visiting America on
business, met him the other day in New York, in the full costume of a Fire-worshipper.

CHAPTER XI. -- HOME AND FOREIGN POLICY COMBINED.

     Knowest thou the House where the members elected
     Consider the measure apart from the brand,
     Where Voting by Party is quite unaffected,
     And solely concerned with the good of the land?
     Knowest thou the House of Amendments and Clauses,
     Where Reason may reel but debate never pauses,
     Where words, the grand note of Humanity, reign
     (Oh Müller, Max Müller, expound us the gain!),
     Articulate always, if often insane?

                        *****

