THE MAN FROM 2071        SEWELL PEASLEE WRIGHT              295

    Out of the Flow of Time There Appears to Commander John Hanson
     a Man of Mystery from the Forgotten Past.

MANAPE THE MIGHTY.       ARTHUR J. BURKS                    308

    High in Jungle Treetops Swings Young Bentley--His Human Brain
     Imprisoned in a Mighty Ape. (A Complete Novelette.)

HOLOCAUST                CHARLES WILLARD DIFFIN             356

    The Extraordinary Story of "Paul," Who for Thirty Days Was Dictator
     of the World.

THE EARTHMAN'S BURDEN    R. F. STARZL                       375

    There is Foul Play on Mercury--until Danny Olear of the Interplanetary
     Flying Police Gets After His Man.

THE EXILE OF TIME        RAY CUMMINGS                       386

    Larry and George from 1935, Mary from 1777--All Are Caught up in the
     Treacherous Tugh's Revolt of the Robots in the Time World of 2930. And yet, there is, or should be, a report somewhere in
the musty archives of the Service, covering the incident.

Not accurately, and not in detail. Among a great mass of old records which I was browsing through
the other day, I happened across that report; it occupied exactly three lines in the log-book
of the Ertak:

     "Just before departure, discovered stowaway, apparently
      demented, and ejected him."

For the hard-headed higher-ups of the Service, that was report enough. Had I given the facts,
they would have called me to the Base for a long-winded investigation. It would have taken
weeks and weeks, filled with fussy questioning. Dozens of stoop-shouldered laboratory men would
have prodded and snooped and asked for long, written accounts. In those days, keeping the log-book
was writing enough for me and being grounded at Base for weeks would have been punishment.

Nothing would have been gained by a detailed report. The Service needed action rather than
reports, anyway. But now that I am an old man, on the retired list, I have time to write; and
it will be a particular pleasure to write this account, for it will go to prove that these
much-honored scientists of ours, with all their tremendous appropriations and long-winded discussions,
are not nearly so wonderful as they think they are. They are, and always have been, too much
interested in abstract formulas, and not enough in their practical application. I have never
had a great deal of use for them.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had received orders to report to Earth, regarding a dull routine matter of reorganizing the
emergency Base which had been established there. Earth, I might add, for the benefit of those
of you who have forgotten your geography of the Universe, is not a large body, but its people
furnish almost all of the officer personnel of the Special Patrol Service. Being a native of
Earth, I received the assignment with considerable pleasure, despite its dry and uninteresting
nature.

It was a stood sight to see old Earth, bundled up in her cottony clouds, growing larger and
larger in the television disc. No matter how much you wander around the Universe, no matter
how small and insignificant the world of your birth, there is a tie that cannot be denied.
I have set my ships down upon many a strange and unknown world, with danger and adventure awaiting
me, but there is, for me, no thrill which quite duplicates that of viewing again that particular
little ball of mud from whence I sprang. I've said that before; I shall probably say it again.
I am proud to claim Earth as my birth-place, small and out-of-the way as she is.

Our Base on Earth was adjacent to the city of Greater Denver, on the Pacific Coast. I could
not help wondering, as we settled swiftly over the city, whether our historians and geologists
and other scientists were really right in saying that Denver had at one period been far from
the Pacific. It seemed impossible, as I gazed down on that blue, tranquil sea, that it had
engulfed, hundreds of years ago, such a vast portion of North America. But I suppose the men
of science know.

       *       *       *       *       *

I need not go into the routine business that brought me to Earth. Suffice it to say that it
was settled quickly, by the afternoon of the second day: I am referring, of course, to Earth
days, which are slightly less than half the length of an enaren of Universe time.

A number of my friends had come to meet me, visit with me during my brief stay on Earth; and,
having finished my business with such dispatch, I decided to spend that evening with them,
and leave the following morning. It was very late when my friends departed, and I strolled
out with them to their mono-car, returning the salute of the Ertak's lone sentry, who was pacing
his post before the huge circular exit of the ship.

Bidding my friends farewell, I stood there for a moment under the heavens, brilliant with blue,
cold stars, and watched the car sweep swiftly and soundlessly away towards the towering mass
of the city. Then, with a little sigh, I turned back to the ship.

The Ertak lay lightly upon the earth, her polished sides gleaming in the light of the crescent
moon. In the side toward me, the circular entrance gaped like a sleepy mouth; the sentry, knowing
the eyes of his commander were upon him, strode back and forth with brisk, military precision.
Slowly, still thinking of my friends, I made my way toward the ship.

I had taken but a few steps when the sentry's challenge rang out sharply, "Halt! Who goes there?"

I glanced up in surprise. Shiro, the man on guard, had seen me leave, and he could have had
no difficulty in recognizing me. But--the challenge had not been meant for me.

       *       *       *       *       *

Between myself and the Ertak there stood a strange figure. An instant before, I would have
sworn that there was no human in sight, save myself and the sentry; now this man stood not
twenty feet away, swaying as though ill or terribly weary, barely able to lift his head and
turn it toward the sentry.

"Friend," he gasped; "friend!" and I think he would have fallen to the ground if I had not
clapped an arm around his shoulders and supported him.

"Just ... a moment," whispered the stranger. "I'm a bit faint.... I'll be all right...."

I stared down at the man, unable to reply. This was a nightmare; no less. I could feel the
sentry staring, too.

The man was dressed in a style so ancient that I could not remember the period: Twenty-first
Century, at least; perhaps earlier. And while he spoke English, which is a language of Earth,
he spoke it with a harsh and unpleasant accent that made his words difficult, almost impossible,
to understand. Their meaning did not fully sink in until an instant after he had finished speaking.

"Shiro!" I said sharply. "Help me take this man inside. He's ill."

"Yes, sir!" The guard leaped to obey the order, and together we led him into the Ertak, and
to my own stateroom. There was some mystery here, and I was eager to get at the root of it.
The man with the ancient costume and the strange accent had not come to the spot where we had
seen him by any means with which I was familiar; he had materialized out of the thin air. There
was no other way to account for his presence.

       *       *       *       *       *

We propped the stranger in my most comfortable chair, and I turned to the sentry. He was staring
at our weird visitor with wondering, fearful eyes, and when I spoke he started as though stung
by an electric shock.

"Very well," I said briskly. "That will be all. Resume your post immediately. And--Shiro!"

"Yes, sir?"

"It will not be necessary for you to make a report of this incident. I will attend to that.
Understand?"

"Yes, sir!" And I think it is to the man's everlasting credit, and to the credit of the Service
which had trained him, that he executed a snappy salute, did an about-face, and left the room
without another glance at the man slumped down in my big easy chair.

With a feeling of cold, nervous apprehension such as I have seldom experienced in a rather
varied and active life, I turned then to my visitor.

He had not moved, save to lift his head. He was staring at me, his eyes fixed in his chalky
white face. They were dark, long eyes--abnormally long--and they glittered with a strange,
uncanny light.

"You are feeling better?" I asked.

His thin, bloodless lips moved, but for a moment no sound came from them. He tried again.

"Water," he said.

I drew him a glass from the tank in the wall of my room. He downed it at a gulp, and passed
the empty glass back to me.

"More," he whispered. He drank the second glass more slowly, his eyes darting swiftly, curiously,
around the room. Then his brilliant, piercing glance fell upon my face.

"Tell me," he commanded sharply, "what year is this?"

       *       *       *       *       *

I stared at him. It occurred to me that my friends might have conceived and executed an elaborate
hoax--and then I dismissed the idea, instantly. There were no scientists among them who could
make a man materialize out of nothingness.

"Are you in your right mind?" I asked slowly. "Your question strikes me as damnably odd, sir."

The man laughed wildly, and slowly straightened up in the chair. His long, bony fingers clasped
and unclasped slowly, as though feeling were just returning to them.

"Your question," he replied in his odd, unfamiliar accent, "is not unnatural, under the circumstances.
I assure you that I am of sound mind; of very sound mind." He smiled, rather a ghastly smile,
and made a vague, slight gesture with one hand. "Will you be good enough to answer my question?
What year is this?"

"Earth year, you mean?"

He stared at me, his eyes flickering.

"Yes," he said. "Earth year. There are other ways of ... figuring time now?"

"Certainly. Each inhabited world has its own system. There is a master system for the Universe.
Who are you, what are you, that you should ask me a question the smallest child should know?"

"First," he insisted, "tell me what year this is, Earth reckoning."

I told him, and the light flickered up in his eyes again--a cruel, triumphant light.

"Thank you," he nodded; and then, slowly and softly, as though he spoke to himself, he added,
"Less than half a century off. Less than a half a century! And they laughed at me. How--how
I shall laugh at them, presently!"

"You choose to be mysterious, sir?" I asked impatiently.

"No. Presently you shall understand, and then you will forgive me, I know. I have come through
an experience such as no man has ever known before. If I am shaken, weak, surprising to you,
it is because of that experience."

       *       *       *       *       *

He paused for a moment, his long, powerful fingers gripping the arms of the chair.

"You see," he added, "I have come out of the past into the present. Or from the present into
the future. It depends upon one's viewpoint. If I am distraught, then forgive me. A few minutes
ago, I was Jacob Harbauer, in a little laboratory on the edge of a mountain park, near Denver;
now I am a nameless being hurtled into the future, pausing here, many centuries from my own
era. Do you wonder now that I am unnerved?"

"Do you mean," I said slowly, trying to understand what he had babbled forth, "that you have
come out of the past? That you ... that you...." It was too monstrous to put into words.

"I mean," he replied, "that I was born in the year 2028. I am forty-three years old--or I was
a few minutes ago. But,"--and his eyes flickered again with that strange, mad light--"I am
a scientist! I have left my age behind me for a time; I have done what no other human being
has ever done: I have gone centuries into the future!"

"I--I do not understand." Could he, after all, be a madman? "How can a man leave his own age
and travel ahead to another?"

"Even in this age of yours they have not discovered that secret?" Harbauer exulted. "You travel
the Universe, I gather, and yet your scientists have not yet learned to move in time? Listen!
Let me explain to you how simple the theory is.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I take it you are an intelligent man; your uniform and its insignia would seem to indicate
a degree of rank. Am I correct?"

"I am John Hanson, Commander of the Ertak, of the Special Patrol Service," I informed him.

"Then you will be capable of grasping, in part at least, what I have to tell you. It is really
not so complex. Time is a river, flowing steadily, powerful, at a fixed rate of speed. It sweeps
the whole Universe along on its bosom at that same speed. That is my conception of it; is it
clear to you?"

"I should think," I replied, "that the Universe is more like a great rock in the middle of
your stream of time, that stands motionless while the minutes, the hours, and the days roll by."

"No! The Universe travels on the breast of the current of time. It leaves yesterday behind,
and sweeps on towards to-morrow. It has always been so until I challenged this so-called immutable
law. I said to myself, why should a man be a helpless stick upon the stream of time? Why need
he be borne on this slow current at the same speed? Why cannot he do as a man in a boat, paddle
backwards or forwards; back to a point already passed; ahead, faster than the current, to a
point that, drifting, he would not reach so soon? In other words, why can he not slip back
through time to yesterday; or ahead to to-morrow? And if to to-morrow, why not to next year,
next century?

       *       *       *       *       *

"These are the questions I asked myself. Other men have asked themselves the same questions,
I know; they were not new. But,"--Harbauer drew himself far forward in his chair, and leaned
close to me, almost as though he prepared himself to spring--"no other man ever found the answer!
That remained for me.

"I was not entirely correct, of course. I found that one could not go back in time. The current
was against one. But to go ahead, with the current at one's back, was different. I spent six
years on the problem, working day and night, handicapped by lack of funds, ridiculed by the
press--Look!"

Harbauer reached inside his antiquated costume and drew forth a flat packet which he passed
to me. I unfolded it curiously, my fingers clumsy with excitement.

I could hardly believe my eyes. The thing Harbauer had handed me was a folded fragment of newspaper,
such as I had often seen in museums. I recognized the old-fashioned type, and the peculiar
arrangement of the columns. But, instead of being yellow and brittle with age, and preserved
in fragments behind sealed glass, this paper was fresh and white, and the ink was as black
as the day it had been printed. What this man said, then, must be true! He must--

"I can understand your amazement," said Harbauer. "It had not occurred to me that a paper which,
to me, was printed only yesterday, would seem so antique to you. But that must appear as remarkable
to you as fresh papyrus, newly inscribed with the hieroglyphics of the ancient Egyptians, would
seem to one of my own day and age. But read it; you will see how my world viewed my efforts!"
There was a sharpness, a bitterness, in his voice that made me vaguely uneasy; even though
he had solved the riddle of moving in time as men have always moved in space, my first conjecture
that I had a madman to deal with might not be so far from the truth. Ridicule and persecution
have unseated the reason of all too many men.

       *       *       *       *       *

The type was unfamiliar to me, and the spelling was archaic, but I managed to stumble through
the article. It read, as nearly as I can recall it, like this:

                       Harbauer Says Time

                       Is Like Great River

     Jacob Harbauer, local inventor, in an exclusive interview,
     propounds the theory that man can move about in time exactly
     as a boat moves about on the surface of a swift-flowing
     river, save that he cannot go back into time, on account of
     the opposition of the current.

     That is very fortunate, this writer feels; it would be a
     terrible thing for example, if some good-looking scamp from
     our present Twenty-first Century were to dive into the past
     and steal Cleopatra from Antony, or start an affair with
     Josephine and send Napoleon scurrying back from the front
     and let the Napoleonic wars go to pot. We'd have to have all
     our histories rewritten!

     Harbauer is well-known in Denver as the eccentric inventor
     who, for the last five or six years, has occupied a lonely
     shack in the mountains, guarded by a high fence of barbed
     wire. He claims that he has now perfected equipment which
     will enable him to project himself forward in time, and
     expects to make the experiment in the very near future.

     This writer was permitted to view the equipment which
     Harbauer says will shoot him into the future. The apparatus
     is housed in a low, barn-like building in the rear of his
     shack.

     Along one side of the room is a veritable bank of electrical
     apparatus with innumerable controls, many huge tubes of
     unfamiliar shape and appearance, a mighty generator of some
     kind and an intricate maze of gleaming copper bus-bar.

     In the center of the room is a circle of metal, about a foot
     in thickness, insulated from the flooring by four truncated
     cones of fluted glass. This disc is composed of two
     unfamiliar metals, arranged in concentric circles.

     Above this disc, at a height of about eight feet, is
     suspended a sort of grid, composed of extremely fine silvery
     wires, supported on a frame-work of black insulating
     material.

     Asked for a demonstration of his apparatus, Harbauer finally
     consented to perform an experiment with a dog--a white,
     short-haired mongrel that, Harbauer informed us, he kept to
     warn him of approaching strangers.

     He bound the dog's legs together securely, and placed the
     struggling animal in the center of the heavy metal disc.
     Then the inventor hurried to the central control panel and
     manipulated several switches, which caused a number of
     things to happen almost at once.

     The big generator started with a growl, and settled
     immediately into a deep hum; a whole row of tubes glowed
     with a purplish brilliancy. There was a crackling sound in
     the air, and the grid above the disc seemed to become
     incandescent, although it gave forth no apparent heat. From
     the rim of the metal disc, thin blue streamers of electric
     flame shot up toward the grid, and the little white dog
     began to whine nervously.

     "Now watch!" shouted Harbauer. He closed another switch,
     and the space between the disc and the grid became a
     cylinder of livid light, for a period of perhaps two
     seconds. Then Harbauer pulled all the switches, and pointed
     triumphantly to the disc. It was empty.

     We looked around the room for the dog, but he was not
     visible anywhere.

     "I have sent him nearly a century into the future," said
     Harbauer. "We will let him stay there a moment, and then
     bring him back."

     "You mean to say," we asked, "that the pup is now roaming
     around somewhere in the Twenty-second Century?" Harbauer
     said he meant just that, and added that he would now bring
     the dog back to the present time. The switches were closed
     again, but this time it was the metal plate that seemed
     incandescent, and the grid above that shot out the streaks
     of thin blue flame. As he closed the last switch, the
     cylinder of light appeared again, and when the switches were
     opened, there was the dog in the center of the disc, howling
     and struggling against his bonds.

     "Look!" cried Harbauer. "He's been attacked by another dog,
     or some other animal, while in the future. See the blood on
     his shoulders?"

     We ventured the humble opinion that the dog had scratched or
     bit himself in struggling to free himself from the cords
     with which Harbauer had bound him, and the inventor flew
     into a terrible rage, cursing and waving his arms as though
     demented. Feeling that discretion was the better part of
     valor, we beat a hasty retreat, pausing at the barbed-wire
     gate only long enough to ask Mr. Harbauer if he would be
     good enough, sometime when he had a few minutes of leisure,
     to dash into next week and bring back some stock market
     reports to aid us in our investment efforts.

     Under the circumstances, we did not wait for a response, but
     we presume we are persona non grata at the Harbauer
     establishment from this time on.

     All in all, we are not sorry.

I folded the paper and passed it back to him; some of the allusions I did not understand, but
the general tone of the article was very clear indeed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You see?" said Harbauer, his voice grating with anger. "I tried to be courteous to that man;
to give him a simple, convincing demonstration of the greatest scientific achievement in centuries.
And the fool returned to write this: to hold me up to ridicule, to paint me as a crack-brained,
wild-eyed fanatic."

"It's hard for the layman to conceive of a great scientific achievement," I said soothingly.
"All great inventions and inventors have been laughed at by the populace at large."

"True. True." Harbauer nodded his head solemnly. "But just the same--" He broke off suddenly,
and forced a smile. I found myself wishing that he had completed that broken sentence, however;
I felt that he had almost revealed something that would have been most enlightening.

"But enough of that fool and his babblings," he continued. "I am here as living proof that
my experiment is a success, and I have a tremendous curiosity about the world in which I find
myself. This, I take it, is a ship for navigating space?"

"Right! The Ertak, of the Special Patrol Service. Would you care to look around a bit?"

"I would, indeed." There was a tremendous eagerness in the man's voice.

"You're not too tired?"

"No; I am quite recovered from my experience." Harbauer leaped to his feet, those abnormally
long, slitted eyes of his glowing. "I am a scientist, and I am most curious to see what my
fellows have created since--since my own era."

I picked up my dressing gown and tossed it to him.

"Slip this on, then, to cover your clothing. You would be an object of too much curiosity to
those men who are on duty," I suggested.

I was taller than he, and the garment came within a few inches of the floor. He knotted the
cincture around his middle and thrust his hands into the pockets, turning to me for approval.
I nodded, and motioned for him to precede me through the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

As an officer of the Special Patrol Service, it has often been my duty to show parties and
individuals through my ship. Most of these parties are composed of females, who have only exclamations
to make instead of intelligent comment, and who possess an unbounded capacity for asking utterly
asinine questions. It was, therefore, a real pleasure to show Harbauer through the ship.

He was a keen, eager listener. When he asked a question, and he asked many of them, he showed
an amazing grasp of the principles involved. My knowledge of our equipment was, of course,
only practical, save for the rudimentary theoretical knowledge that everyone has of present-day
inventions and devices.

The ethon tubes which lighted the ship, interested him but little. The atomic generators, the
gravity pads, their generators, and the disintegrator-ray, however, he delved into with that
frenzied ardor of which only a scientist, I believe, is capable.

Questions poured out of him, and I answered them as best I could: sometimes completely, and
satisfactorily, so that he nodded and said, "I see! I see!" and sometimes so poorly that he
frowned, and cross-questioned me insistently until he obtained the desired information.

In the big, sound-proof navigating room, I explained the operation of the numerous instruments,
including the two three-dimensional charts, actuated by super-radio reflexes, the television
disc, the attraction meter, the surface-temperature gauge and the complex control system.

"Forward," I added, "is the operating room. You can see it through these glass partitions.
The navigating officer in command relays his orders to men in the operating room, who attend
to the actual execution of those orders."

"Just as a pilot, or the navigating officer of a ship of my day gives his orders to the quartermaster
at the wheel," nodded Harbauer, and began firing questions at me again, going over the ground
we had covered, to check up on his information. I was amazed at the uncanny accuracy with which
he had grasped such a great mass of technical detail. It had taken me years of study to pick
up what he had taken from me, and apparently retained intact, in something more than an hour,
Earth time.

       *       *       *       *       *

I glanced at the Earth-time clock on the wall of the navigating room as he triumphantly finished
his questioning. Less than an hour remained before the time set for our return trip.

"I'm sorry," I commented, "to be an ungracious host, but I am wondering what your plans may
be? You see, we are due to start in less than an hour, and--"

"A passenger would be in your way?" Harbauer smiled as he uttered the words, but there was
a gleam in his long eyes that rather startled me, and I wondered if I only imagined the steeliness
of his voice. "Don't let that worry you, sir."

"It's not worrying me," I replied, watching him closely. "I have enjoyed a very remarkable,
a very pleasant experience. If you should care to remain aboard the Ertak, I should like exceedingly
to have you accompany us to our Base, where I could place you in touch with other laboratory
men, with whom you would have much in common."

Harbauer threw back his head and laughed--not pleasantly.

"Thanks!" he said. "But I have no time for that. They could give me no knowledge that I need,
now; you have told me and showed me enough. I understand how you have released atomic energy;
it is a matter so simple that a child should have guessed it, and man has wondered about it
for centuries, knowing that the power was there, but lacking a key to unfetter it. And now
I have that key!"

"True. But perhaps our scientists would like, in exchange, the secret of moving forward in
time," I suggested, reasonably enough.

"What do I care about them?" snapped Harbauer. He loosened the cord of the robe with a quick,
impatient gesture, as though it confined him too tightly, and threw the garment from him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, suddenly, he took a quick stride toward me, and thrust out his ugly head.

"I know enough now to give me power over all my world," he cried. "Haven't you guessed the
reason for my interest in your engines of destruction? I came down the centuries ahead of my
generation so that I might come back with power in my hand; power to wipe out the fools who
have made a mock of me. And I have that power--here!" He tapped his forehead dramatically with
his left hand.

"I will bring a new regime to my era!" he continued, fairly shouting now. "I will be what many
men have tried to be, and what no man has ever been--master of the world! Absolute, unquestioned,
supreme master!" He paused, his eyes glaring into mine--and I knew from the light that shone
behind those long, narrow slits, that I was dealing with a madman.

"True; you will," I said gently, moving carelessly toward the microphone. With that in my hand,
a slight pressure on the General Attention signal, and I would have the whole crew of the Ertak
here in a moment. But I had explained the workings of the navigating room's equipment only
too well.

"Stop!" snarled Harbauer, and his right hand flashed up. "See this? Perhaps you don't know
what it is; I'll tell you. It's an automatic pistol--not so efficient as your disintegrator-ray,
but deadly enough. There is certain death for eight men in my hand. Understand?"

"Perfectly." What an utter fool I had been! I was not armed, and I knew that Harbauer spoke
the truth. I had often seen weapons similar to the one he held in the military museums. They
are still there, if you are curious--rusty and broken, but not unlike our present atomic pistols
in general appearance. They propelled the bullet by the explosion of a sort of powder; inefficient,
of course, but, as he had said, deadly enough for the purpose.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Good! You are a good sort Hanson, but don't take any chances. I'm not going to, I promise
you. You see,"--and he laughed again, the light in his long eyes dancing with evil--"I'm not
likely to be punished for a few killings committed centuries after I'm dead. I have never killed
a man, but I won't hesitate to do so now, if one--or more--should get in my way."

"But why," I asked soothingly, "should you wish to kill anyone? You have what you came for,
you say; why not depart in peace?"

He smiled crookedly, and his eyes narrowed with cunning.

"You approve of my little plan to dominate the world?" he asked softly, his eyes searching my face.

"No," I said boldly, refusing to lie to him. "I do not, and you know it."

"Very true." He pulled out his watch with his left hand, and held it before his eyes so that
he could observe the time without losing sight of me for even an instant. "I doubted that I
could secure your willing cooperation; therefore, I am commanding it.

"You see, there are certain instruments and pieces of equipment that I should like to take
back to my laboratory with me. Perhaps I would be able to reproduce them without models, but
with the models my task will be much easier.

"The question remaining is a simple one: will you give the proper orders to have this equipment
removed to the spot where you first saw me, or shall I be obliged to return to my own era without
this equipment--leaving behind me a dead commander of the Special Patrol Service, and any other
who may try to stop me?"

       *       *       *       *       *

I tried to keep cool under the lash of his mocking voice. I have never been adept at holding
my temper when I should, but somehow I managed it this time. Frowning, I kept him waiting for
a reply, utilizing the time to do what was perhaps the hardest, fastest thinking of my life.

There wasn't a particle of doubt in my mind regarding his ability to make good his threat,
nor his readiness to do so. I caught the faint glimmering of an idea and fenced with it eagerly.

"How are you going to go back to your own period--your own era?" I asked him. "You told me,
I believe, that it was impossible to move backward in time."

"That's not answering my question," he said, leering. "Don't think you're fooling me! But I'll
tell you, just the same. I can go back to my own era: that is, back to my own actual existence.
I shall return just two hours after I leave; I could not go back farther than that, and it's
not necessary that I do so. I can go back only because I came from that present; I am not really
of this future at all. I go back from whence I came."

"But," I objected, thinking of something I had read in the clipping he had showed me, "you're
not going back to your own era. You cannot. If you returned, you would put your project into
execution, and history does not record that activity." I saw from the sudden narrowing of his
abnormally long eyes that I had caught his interest, and I pressed my advantage hastily. "Remember
that all the history of your time is written, Harbauer. It is in the books of Earth's history,
with which every child of this age, into which you have thrust yourself, is familiar. And those
histories do not record the domination of the world by yourself. So--you are confronted by
an impossibility!"

       *       *       *       *       *

My reasoning, now, sounds specious, and yet it was a line of thought which could not be waved
aside. I saw Harbauer's black brows knit together, and mounting anger darken his face. I do
not know, but I believe I was never nearer death than I was at that instant.

"Fool!" he cried. "Idiot! Imbecile! Do you think you can confuse me, turn me from my purpose,
with words? Do you? Do you believe me to be a child, or a weakling? I tell you, I have planned
this thing to the last detail. If I had not found what I sought on this first trip, I would
have taken another, a dozen, a score, until I found the information I sought. The last six
years of my life I have worked day and night to this end; your histories and your words--"

My plan had worked. The man was beside himself with insane anger. And in his rage he forgot,
for an instant, that he was my captor.

Taking a desperate chance, I launched myself at his legs. His weapon roared over my head, just
as I struck. I felt the hot gas from the thing beat against my neck; I caught the reeking scent
of the smoke. Then we were both on the floor, and locked in a mad embrace.

Harbauer was a smaller man than myself, but he had the amazing strength of a Zenian. He fought
viciously, using every ounce of his strength against me, striving to bring his weapon into
use, hammering my head upon the floor, racking my body mercilessly, grunting, cursing, mumbling
constantly as he did so.

But I was in better trim than Harbauer. I have never seen a laboratory man who could stand
the strain of prolonged physical exertion. Bending over test-tubes and meters is no life for
a man. At grips with him, I was in my own element, and he was out of his. I let him wear himself
out, exerting myself as little as possible, confining my efforts to keeping his weapon where
he could not use it.

I felt him weakening at last. His breath was coming in great sobs, and his long eyes started
from their sockets with the strained effort he was putting forth. And then, with a single mighty
effort, I knocked the pistol from his hand, so that it slid across the floor and brought up
with a crash against a wall of the room.

"Now!" I said, and turned on him.

       *       *       *       *       *

He knew, at that moment when I put forth my strength, that I had been playing with him. I read
the shock of sudden fear in his eyes. My right arm went about him in a deadly hold; I had him
in a grip that paralyzed him. Grimly, I jerked him to his feet, and he stood there trembling
with weakness, his shoulders heaving as his breath came and went between his teeth.

"You realize, of course, that you're not going back?" I said quietly.

