LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL ESSAYS

HARVARD CLASSICS V32

CONTENTS

THAT WE SHOULD NOT JUDGE OF OUR HAPPINESS UNTIL AFTER OUR DEATH THAT TO PHILOSOPHISE IS TO
LEARNE How TO DIE OF THE INSTITUTION AND EDUCATION OF CHILDREN OF FRIENDSHIP OF BOOKES BY MONTAIGNE

MONTAIGNE

WHAT IS A CLASSIC? BY CHASLES-AUGUSTIN SAINTE-BEUVE

THE POETRY OF THE CELTIC RACES BY ERNEST RENAN

THE EDUCATION OF THE HUMAN RACE BY GOTTHOLD EPHRAIM LESSING

LETTERS UPON THE AESTHETIC EDUCATION OF MAN BY J. C. FRIEDRICH VON SCHILLER

FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE METAPHYSIC OF MORALS

TRANSITION FROM POPULAR MORAL PHILOSOPHY TO THE METAPHYSIC OF MORALS

IMMANUEL KANT

BYRON AND GOETHE BY GIUSEPPE MAZZINI

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Michel Eyquem De Montaigne, the founder of the modern Essay, was born February 28, 1533, at
the chateau of Montaigne in Pirigord. He came of a family of wealthy merchants of Bordeaux,
and was educated at the College de Guyenne, where he had among his teachers the great Scottish
Latinist, George Buchanan. Later he studied law, and held various public offices; but at the
age of thirty-eight he retired to his estates, where he lived apart from the civil wars of
the time, and devoted himself to study and thought. While he was traveling in Germany and Italy,
in 1580-81, he was elected mayor of Bordeaux, and this office he filled for four years. He
married in 1565, and had six daughters, only one of whom grew up. The first two books of his
"Essays" appeared in 1580; the third in 1588; and four years later he died.

These are the main external facts of Montaigne's life: of the man himself the portrait is to
be found in his book. "It is myself I portray," he declares; and there is nowhere in literature
a volume of self-revelation surpassing his in charm and candor. He is frankly egotistical,
yet modest and unpretentious; profoundly wise, yet constantly protesting his ignorance; learned,
yet careless, forgetful, and inconsistent. His themes are as wide and varied as his observation
of human life, and he has written the finest eulogy of friendship the world has known. Bacon,
who knew his book and borrowed from it, wrote on the same subject; and the contrast of the
essays is the true reflection of the contrast between the personalities of their authors.

Shortly after Montaigne's death the "Essays" were translated into English by John Florio, with
less than exact accuracy, but in a style so full of the flavor of the age that we still read
Montaigne in the version which Shakespeare knew. The group of examples here printed exhibits
the author in a variety of moods, easy, serious, and, in the essay on "Friendship," as nearly
impassioned as his philosophy ever allowed him to become.

Reader, be here a well-meaning Booke. It doth at the firth entrance forewarne thee, that in
contriving the same I have proposed unto my selfe no other than a familiar and private end:
I have no respect or consideration at all, either to thy service, or to my glory: my forces
are not capable of any such desseigne. I have vowed the same to the particular commodity of
my kinsfolks and friends: to the end, that losing me (which they are likely to doe ere long),
they may therein find some lineaments of my conditions and humours, and by that meanes reserve
more whole, and more lively foster the knowledge and acquaintance they have had of me. Had
my intention beene to forestal and purchase the world's opinion and favour, I would surely
have adorned myselfe more quaintly, or kept a more grave and solemne march. I desire therein
to be delineated in mine owne genuine, simple and ordinarie fashion, without contention, art
or study; for it is myself e I pourtray. My imperfections shall therein be read to the life,
and my naturall forme discerned, so farre-forth as publike reverence hath permitted me. For
if my fortune had beene to have lived among those nations which yet are said to live under
the sweet liberty of Nature's first and uncorrupted lawes, I assure thee, I would most willingly
have pourtrayed my selfe fully and naked. Thus, gentle Reader, myself I am the groundworke
of my booke: it is then no reason thou shouldest employ thy time about so frivolous and vaine
a subject.

Therefore farewell.

From MONTAIGNE,
  The First of March, 1580.
     [Footnote: Ovid. Met. 1, iii. 135.]

     We must expect of man the latest day,
     Nor ere he die, he's happie, can we say.

The very children are acquainted with the storie of Croesus to this purpose: who being taken
by Cyrus, and by him condemned to die, upon the point of his execution, cried out aloud: "Oh
Solon, Solon!" which words of his, being reported to Cyrus, who inquiring what he meant by
them, told him, hee now at his owne cost verified the advertisement Solon had before times
given him; which was, that no man, what cheerefull and blandishing countenance soever fortune
shewed them, may rightly deeme himselfe happie, till such time as he have passed the last day
of his life, by reason of the uncertaintie and vicissitude of humane things, which by a very
light motive, and slight occasion, are often changed from one to another cleane contrary state
and degree. And therefore Agesilaus answered one that counted the King of Persia happy, because
being very young, he had gotten the garland of so mightie and great a dominion: "yea but said
he, Priam at the same age was not unhappy." Of the Kings of Macedon that succeeded Alexander
the Great, some were afterward seene to become Joyners and Scriveners at Rome: and of Tyrants
of Sicilie, Schoolemasters at Corinth. One that had conquered halfe the world, and been Emperour
over so many, Armies, became an humble and miserable suter to the raskally officers of a king
of AEgypte: At so high a rate did that great Pompey purchase the irkesome prolonging of his
life but for five or six moneths. And in our fathers daies, Lodowicke Sforze, tenth Duke of
Millane, under whom the State of Italic had so long beene turmoiled and shaken, was seene to
die a wretched prisoner at Loches in France, but not till he had lived and lingered ten yeares
in thraldom, which was the worst of his bargaine. The fairest Queene, wife to the greatest
King of Christendome, was she not lately scene to die by the hands of an executioner? Oh unworthie
and barbarous cruelties And a thousand such examples. For, it seemeth that as the sea-billowes
and surging waves, rage and storme against the surly pride and stubborne height of our buildings,
so are there above, certaine spirits that envie the rising prosperities and greatnesse heere below.

     Vsque adeb res humanas vis abdita quadam
     Obterit, et pulchros fasces sav&sque secures
     Proculcare, ac ludibrio sibi habere videtur.
     [Footnote: LUCRET. I. v. 1243.]

     A hidden power so mens states hath out-worne
     Faire swords, fierce scepters, signes of honours borne,
     It seemes to trample and deride in scorne.

And it seemeth Fortune doth sometimes narrowly watch the last day of
our life, thereby to shew her power, and in one moment to overthrow
what for many yeares together she had been erecting, and makes us
cry after Laberius, Nimirum hoc die una plus vixi, mihi quam
vivendum fuit. [Footnote: MACHOB, 1, ii. 7.] Thus it is, "I have
lived longer by this one day than I should." So may that good advice
of Solon be taken with reason. But forsomuch as he is a Philosopher,
with whom the favours or disfavours of fortune, and good or ill
lucke have no place, and are not regarded by him; and puissances and
greatnesses, and accidents of qualitie, are well-nigh indifferent: I
deeme it very likely he had a further reach, and meant that the same
good fortune of our life, which dependeth of the tranquillitie and
contentment of a welborne minde, and of the resolution and assurance
of a well ordered soule, should never be ascribed unto man, untill
he have beene scene play the last act of his comedie, and without
doubt the hardest. In all the rest there may be some maske: either
these sophisticall discourses of Philosophie are not in us but by
countenance, or accidents that never touch us to the quick, give us
alwaies leasure to keep our countenance setled. But when that last
part of death, and of our selves comes to be acted, then no
dissembling will availe, then is it high time to speake plaine
English, and put off all vizards: then whatsoever the pot containeth
must be shewne, be it good or bad, foule or cleane, wine or water.
     [Footnote: LUCEET. 1. iii. 57.]

     For then are sent true speeches from the heart,
     We are ourselves, we leave to play a part.

Loe heere, why at this last cast, all our lives other actions must be tride and touched. It
is the master-day, the day that judgeth all others: it is the day, saith an auncient Writer,
that must judge of all my forepassed yeares. To death doe I referre the essay [Footnote: Assay,
exact weighing.] of my studies fruit. There shall wee see whether my discourse proceed from
my heart, or from my mouth. I have scene divers, by their death, either in good or evill, give
reputation to all their forepassed life. Scipio, father-in-law to Pompey, in well dying, repaired
the ill opinion which untill that houre men had ever held of him. Epaminondas being demanded
which of the three he esteemed most, either Chabrias, or Iphicrates, or himselfe: "It is necessary,"
said he, "that we be scene to die, before your question may well be resolved." [Footnote: Answered.]
Verily, we should steale much from him, if he should be weighed without the honour and greatnesse
of his end. God hath willed it, as he pleased: but in my time three of the most execrable persons
that ever I knew in all abomination of life, and the most infamous, have beene seen to die
very orderly and quietly, and in every circumstance composed even unto perfection. There are
some brave and fortunate deaths. I have seene her cut the twine of some man's life, with a
progresse of wonderful advancement, and with so worthie an end, even in the flowre of his growth
and spring of his youth, that in mine opinion, his ambitious and haughtie couragious signes,
thought nothing so high as might interrupt them who without going to the place where he pretended,
arived there more gloriously and worthily than either his desire or hope aimed at, and by his
fall fore-went the power and name, whither by his course he aspired. When I judge of other
men's lives, I ever respect how they have behaved themselves in their end; and my chiefest
study is, I may well demeane my selfe at my last gaspe, that is to say, quietly and constantly.

THAT TO PHILOSOPHISE IS TO LEARNE HOW TO DIE

Cicero saith, that to Philosophise is no other thing than for a man to prepare himselfe to
death: which is the reason that studie and contemplation doth in some sort withdraw our soule
from us, and severally employ it from the body, which is a kind of apprentisage and resemblance
of death; or else it is, that all the wisdome and discourse of the world, doth in the end resolve
upon this point, to teach us not to feare to die. Truly either reason mockes us, or it only
aimeth at our contentment, and in fine, bends all her travell to make us live well, and as
the holy Scripture saith, "at our ease." All the opinions of the world conclude, that pleasure
is our end, howbeit they take divers meanes unto and for it, else would men reject them at
their first comming. For, who would give eare unto him, that for it's end would establish our
paine and disturbance? The dissentions of philosophicall sects in this case are verbal: Transcurramus
solertissimas Hugos [Footnote: Travails, labours.] "Let us run over such over-fine fooleries
and subtill trifles." There is more wilfulnesse and wrangling among them, than pertains to
a sacred profession. But what person a man undertakes to act, he doth ever therewithal! personate
his owne. Allthough they say, that in vertue it selfe, the last scope of our aime is voluptuousnes.
It pleaseth me to importune their eares still with this word, which so much offends their hearing.
And if it imply any chief pleasure or exceeding contentments, it is rather due to the assistance
of vertue, than to any other supply, voluptuousnes being more strong, sinnowie, sturdie, and
manly, is but more seriously voluptuous. And we should give it the name of pleasure, more favorable,
sweeter, and more naturall; and not terme it vigor, from which it hath his denomination. Should
this baser sensuality deserve this faire name, it should be by competencie, and not by privilege.
I finde it lesse void of incommodities and crosses than vertue. And besides that> her taste
is more fleeting, momentarie, and fading, she hath her fasts, her eyes, and her travels, and
both sweat and blood. Furthermore she hath particularly so many wounding passions, and of so
severall sorts, and so filthie and loathsome a societie waiting upon her, that shee is equivalent
to penitencie. Wee are in the wrong, to thinke her incommodities serve her as a provocation
and seasoning to her sweetnes, as in nature one contrarie is vivified by another contrarie:
and to say, when we come to vertue, that like successes and difficulties overwhelme it, and
yeeld it austere and inaccessible. Whereas much more properly then unto voluptuousnes, they
ennobled, sharpen, animate, and raise that divine and perfect pleasure, which it meditates
and procureth us. Truly he is verie unworthie her acquaintance, that counter-ballanceth her
cost to his fruit, and knowes neither the graces nor use of it. Those who go about to instruct
us, how her pursuit is very hard and laborious, and her jovisance [Footnote: Enjoyment] well-pleasing
and delightfull: what else tell they us, but that shee is ever unpleasant and irksome? For
what humane meane [Footnote: Human meana. man's life is subject, it is not with an equall care:
as well because accidents are not of such a necessitie, for most men passe their whole life
without feeling any want or povertie, and othersome without feeling any griefe or sicknes,
as Xenophilus the Musitian, who lived an hundred and six yeares in perfect and continuall health:
as also if the worst happen, death may at all times, and whensoever it shall please us, cut
off all other inconveniences and crosses. But as for death, it is inevitable.] did ever attaine
unto an absolute enjoying of it? The perfectest have beene content but to aspire and approach
her, without ever possessing her. But they are deceived; seeing that of all the pleasures we
know, the pursute of them is pleasant. The enterprise is perceived by the qualitie of the thing,
which it hath regard unto: for it is a good portion of the effect, and consubstantiall. That
happines and felicitie, which shineth in vertue, replenisheth her approaches and appurtenances,
even unto, the first entrance and utmost barre. Now of all the benefits of vertue, the contempt
of death is the chiefest, a meane that furnisheth our life with an ease-full tranquillitie,
and gives us a pure and amiable taste of it: without which every other voluptuousnes is extinguished.
Loe, here the reasons why all rules encounter and agree with this article. I. iii. Od. iii. 25.]

     All to one place are driv'n, of all
     Shak't is the lot-pot, where-hence shall
     Sooner or later drawne lots fall,
     And to deaths boat for aye enthrall.

And by consequence, if she makes us affeard, it is a continual subject of torment, and which
can no way be eased. There is no starting-hole will hide us from her, she will finde us wheresoever
we are, we may as in a suspected countrie start and turne here and there: quae quasi saxum
Tantalo semper impendet.[Footnote: Cic. De Fin. I. i.] "Which evermore hangs like the stone
over the head of Tantalus:" Our lawes doe often condemne and send malefactors to be executed
in the same place where the crime was committed: to which whilest they are going, leade them
along the fairest houses, or entertaine them with the best cheere you can,

     non Siculae dapes Dulcem elaborabunt saporem:
     Non avium, citharaeque cantus
     Somnum reducent.
     [Footnote: Hor. I. iii. Od. i, 12.]

     Not all King Denys daintie fare,
     Can pleasing taste for them prepare:
     No song of birds, no musikes sound
     Can lullabie to sleepe profound.

Doe you thinke they can take any pleasure in it? or be any thing
delighted? and that the finall intent of their voiage being still
before their eies, hath not altered and altogether distracted their
taste from all these commodities and allurements?
     [Footnote: Claud, in Ruff. 1. ii. 137]

     He heares his journey, counts his daies, so measures he
     His life by his waies length, vext with the ill shall be.

The end of our cariere is death, it is the necessarie object of our aime: if it affright us,
how is it possible we should step one foot further without an ague? The remedie of the vulgar
sort is, not to think on it. But from what brutall stupiditie may so grosse a blindnesse come
upon him? he must be made to bridle his Asse by the taile,

     Qiti capite ipse suo instituit vestigia retro.
     [Footnote: Lucret. 1. iv. 474]

     Who doth a course contrarie runne
     With his head to his course begunne.

It is no marvell if he be so often taken tripping; some doe no sooner heare the name of death
spoken of, but they are afraid, yea the most part will crosse themselves, as if they heard
the Devill named. And because mention is made of it in mens wils and testaments, I warrant
you there is none will set his hand to them, til the physitian hath given his last doome, and
utterly forsaken him. And God knowes, being then betweene such paine and feare, with what sound
judgment they endure him. For so much as this syllable sounded so unpleasantly in their eares,
and this voice seemed so ill boding and unluckie, the Romans had learned to allay and dilate
the same by a Periphrasis. In liew of saying, he is dead, or he hath ended his daies, they
would say, he hath lived. So it be life, be it past or no, they are comforted: from whom we
have borrowed our phrases quondam, alias, or late such a one. It may haply be, as the common
saying is, the time we live is worth the mony we pay for it. I was borne betweene eleven of
the clocke and noone, the last of Februarie 1533, according to our computation, the yeare beginning
the first of Januarie. It is but a fortnight since I was 39 yeares old. I want at least as
much more. If in the meane time I should trouble my thoughts with a matter so farre from me,
it were but folly. But what? we see both young and old to leave their life after one selfe-same
condition. No man departs otherwise from it, than if he but now came to it, seeing there is
no man so crazed,[Footnote: Infirm] bedrell, [Footnote: Bedridden.] or decrepit, so long as
he remembers Methusalem, but thinkes he may yet live twentie yeares. Moreover, seely [Footnote:
Simple, weak.] creature as thou art, who hath limited the end of thy daies? Happily thou presumest
upon physitians reports. Rather consider the effect and experience. By the common course of
things long since thou livest by extraordinarie favour. Thou hast alreadie over-past the ordinarie
tearmes of common life: And to prove it, remember but thy acquaintances, and tell me how many
more of them have died before they came to thy age, than have either attained or outgone the
same: yea, and of those that through renoune have ennobled their life, if thou but register
them, I will lay a wager, I will finde more that have died before they came to five and thirty
years, than after. It is consonant with reason and pietie, to take example by the humanity
of Jesus Christ, who ended his humane life at three and thirtie yeares. The greatest man that
ever was, being no more than a man, I meane Alexander the Great, ended his dayes, and died
also of that age. 1. ii. Od. xiii. 13.]

     A man can never take good heed,
     Hourely what he may shun and speed.

I omit to speak of agues and pleurisies; who would ever have imagined that a Duke of Brittanie
should have beene stifled to death in a throng of people, as whilome was a neighbour of mine
at Lyons, when Pope Clement made his entrance there? Hast thou not seene one of our late Kings
slaine in the middest of his sports? and one of his ancestors die miserably by the chocke [Footnote:
Shock.] of an hog? Eschilus fore threatned by the fall of an house, when he stood most upon
his guard, strucken dead by the fall of a tortoise shell, which fell out of the tallants of
an eagle flying in the air? and another choaked with the kernell of a grape? And an Emperour
die by the scratch of a combe, whilest he was combing his head? And Aemylius Lepidus with hitting
his foot against a doore-seele? And Aufidius with stumbling against the Consull-chamber doore
as he was going in thereat? And Cornelius Gallus, the Praetor, Tigillinus, Captaine of the
Romane watch, Lodowike, sonne of Guido Gonzaga, Marquis of Mantua, end their daies betweene
womens thighs? And of a farre worse example Speusippus, the Platonian philosopher, and one
of our Popes? Poore Bebius a Judge, whilest he demurreth the sute of a plaintife but for eight
daies, be hold, his last expired: And Caius Iulius a Physitian, whilest he was annointing the
eies of one of his patients, to have his owne sight closed for ever by death. And if amongst
these examples, I may adde one of a brother of mine, called Captain Saint Martin, a man of
three and twentie yeares of age, who had alreadie given good testimonie of his worth and forward
valour, playing at tennis, received a blow with a ball, that hit him a little above the right
eare, without apparance of any contusion, bruse, or hurt, and never sitting or resting upon
it, died within six houres after of an apoplexie, which the blow of the ball caused in him.
These so frequent and ordinary examples, hapning, and being still before our eies, how is it
possible for man to forgo or for get the remembrance of death? and why should it not continually
seeme unto us, that shee is still ready at hand to take us by the throat? What matter is it,
will you say unto me, how and in what manner it is, so long as a man doe not trouble and vex
himselfe therewith? 1. ii. Episi. ii 126]

     A dotard I had rather seeme, and dull,
     Sooner my faults may please make me a gull,
     Than to be wise, and beat my vexed scull.

But it is folly to thinke that way to come unto it. They come, they
goe, they trot, they daunce: but no speech of death. All that is
good sport. But if she be once come, and on a sudden and openly
surprise, either them, their wives, their children, or their
friends, what torments, what out cries, what rage, and what despaire
doth then overwhelme them? saw you ever anything so drooping, so
changed, and so distracted? A man must looke to it, and in better
times fore-see it.
     [Footnote: Hor. 1. iii. Od. ii. 14.]

     Shee persecutes the man that flies,
     Shee spares not weake youth to surprise,
     But on their hammes and backe turn'd plies.

And that no temper of cuirace [Footnote: Cuirass.] may shield or defend you,

     Ille licet ferro cauius se condat et aere,
     Mors tamen inclusum protraket inde caput.
     [Footnote: Propert. 1. iii. et xvii. 5]

     Though he with yron and brasse his head empale,
     Yet death his head enclosed thence will hale.

Let us learne to stand, and combat her with a resolute minde. And
being to take the greatest advantage she hath upon us from her, let
us take a cleane contrary way from the common, let us remove her
strangenesse from her, let us converse, frequent, and acquaint our
selves with her, let us have nothing so much in minde as death, let
us at all times and seasons, and in the ugliest manner that may be,
yea with all faces shapen and represent the same unto our
imagination. At the stumbling of a horse, at the fall of a stone, at
the least prick with a pinne, let us presently ruminate and say with
our selves, what if it were death it selfe? and thereupon let us
take heart of grace, and call our wits together to confront her.
Amiddest our bankets, feasts, and pleasures, let us ever have this
restraint or object before us, that is, the remembrance of our
condition, and let not pleasure so much mislead or transport us,
that we altogether neglect or forget, how many waies, our joyes, or
our feastings, be subject unto death, and by how many hold-fasts
shee threatens us and them.
     [Footnote: Hor. 1. i. Epist. iv. 13.]

     Thinke every day shines on thee as thy last,
     Welcome it will come, whereof hope was past.

It is uncertaine where death looks for us; let us expect her everie where: the premeditation
of death, is a forethinking of libertie. He who hath learned to die, hath unlearned to serve.
There is no evill in life, for him that hath well conceived, how the privation of life is no
evill. Verily, if Nature afford not some helpe in all things, it is very hard that art and
industrie should goe farre before. Of my selfe, I am not much given to melancholy, but rather
to dreaming and sluggishness. There is nothing wherewith I have ever more entertained my selfe,
than with the imaginations of death, yea in the most licentious times of my age.

     Iucundum, cum atas florida ver ageret
     [Footnote: Catul. Eleg. iv. 16.]

     When my age flourishing
     Did spend its pleasant spring.

Being amongst faire Ladies, and in earnest play, some have thought me busied, or musing with
my selfe, how to digest some jealousie, or meditating on the uncertaintie of some conceived
hope, when God he knowes, I was entertaining my selfe with the remembrance of some one or other,
that but few daies before was taken with a burning fever, and of his sodaine end, comming from
such a feast or meeting where I was my selfe, and with his head full of idle conceits, of lore,
and merry glee; supposing the same, either sickness or end, to be as neere me as him.

    Iam fuerit, nec post, unquam revocare licebit.
    [Footnote: Lucr. I. iii. 947.]

    Now time would be, no more You can this time restore.

I did no more trouble my selfe or frowne at such conceit, [Idea.] than at any other. It is
impossible we should not apprehend or feele some motions or startings at such imaginations
at the first, and comming sodainely upon us; but doubtlesse, he that shall manage and meditate
upon them with an impartiall eye, they will assuredly, in tract [Course.] of time, become familiar
to him: Otherwise, for my part, I should be in continuall feare and agonie; for no man did
ever more distrust his life, nor make lesse account of his continuance: Neither can health,
which hitherto I have so long enjoied, and which so seldome hath beene crazed, [Enfeebled.]
lengthen my hopes, nor any sicknesse shorten them of it. At every minute me thinkes I make
an escape. And I uncessantly record unto my selfe, that whatsoever may be done another day,
may be effected this day. Truly hazards and dangers doe little or nothing approach us at our
end: And if we consider, how many more there remaine, besides this accident, which in number
more than millions seeme to threaten us, and hang over us; we shall find, that be we sound
or sicke, lustie or weake, at sea or at land, abroad or at home, fighting or at rest, in the
middest of a battell or, in our beds, she is ever alike neere unto us. Whatsoever I have to
doe before death, all leasure to end the same seemeth short unto me, yea were it but of one
houre. Some body, not long since turning over my writing tables, found by chance a memoriall
of something I would have done after my death: I told him (as indeed it was true), that being
but a mile from my house, and in perfect health and lustie, I had made haste to write it, because
I could not assure my self I should ever come home in safety: As one that am ever hatching
of mine owne thoughts, and place them in my selfe: I am ever prepared about that which I may
be: nor can death (come when she please) put me in mind of any new thing. A man should ever,
as much as in him lieth, be ready booted to take his journey, and above all things, looke he
have then nothing to doe but with himselfe.

     Quid brevi fortes jaculamur aevo
     Multa:
     [Footnote: Hor. 1. ii. Od. Xiv]

     To aime why are we ever bold,
     At many things in so short hold?

For then we shall have worke sufficient, without any more accrease. Some man complaineth more
that death doth hinder him from the assured course of an hoped for victorie, than of death
it selfe; another cries out, he should give place to her, before he have married his daughter,
or directed the course of his childrens bringing up; another bewaileth he must forgoe his wives
company; another moaneth the losse of his children, the chiefest commodities of his being.
I am now by meanes of the mercy of God in such a taking, that without regret or grieving at
any worldly matter, I am prepared to dislodge, whensoever he shall please to call me: I am
every where free: my farewell is soone taken of all my friends, except of my selfe. No man
did ever pre pare himselfe to quit the world more simply and fully, or more generally spake
of all thoughts of it, than I am assured I shall doe. The deadest deaths are the best.

   --Miser, de miser (aiunt) omnia ademit.
     Vna dies infesta mihi tot praemia vitae:
     [Footnote: Luce. 1. iii. 941.]

     O wretch, O wretch (friends cry), one day,
     All joyes of life hath tane away:

And the builder,

   --manent (saith he) opera interrupta,
     minaeque Murorum ingentes.
     [Footnote: Virg. Aen. 1. iv. 88.]

     The workes unfinisht lie,
     And walls that threatned hie.

A man should designe nothing so long afore-hand, or at least with such an intent, as to passionate[Footnote:
Long passionately.] himselfe to see the end of it; we are all borne to be doing.

     Cum moriar, medium solvar et inter opus
     [Footnote: Ovid. Am. 1. ii. El. x. 36]

     When dying I my selfe shall spend,
     Ere halfe my businesse come to end.

I would have a man to be doing, and to prolong his lives offices as
much as lieth in him, and let death seize upon me whilest I am
setting my cabiges, carelesse of her dart, but more of my unperfect
garden.
     [Footnote: Luce. 1. iii. 44.]

     Friends adde not that in this case, now no more
     Shalt thou desire, or want things wisht before.

A man should rid himselfe of these vulgar and hurtful humours. Even
as Churchyards were first place adjoyning unto churches, and in the
most frequented places of the City, to enure (as Lycurgus said) the
common people, women and children, not to be skared at the sight of
a dead man, and to the end that continuall spectacle of bones,
sculs, tombes, graves and burials, should forewarne us of our
condition, and fatall end.
     [Footnote: Syl. 1. xi. 51]

     Nay more, the manner was to welcome guests,
     And with dire shewes of slaughter to mix feasts.
     Of them that fought at sharpe, and with bords tainted
     Of them with much bloud, who o'er full cups fainted.

And even as the AEgyptians after their feastings and carousings caused a great image of death
to be brought in and shewed to the guests and bytanders, by one that cried aloud, "Drinke and
be merry, for such shalt thou be when thou art dead: "So have I learned this custome or lesson,
to have alwaies death, not only in my imagination, but continually in my mouth. And there is
nothing I desire more to be informed of than of the death of men; that is to say, what words,
what countenance, and what face they shew at their death; and in reading of histories, which
I so attentively observe. It appeareth by the shuffling and hudling up[Footnote: Collecting]
of my examples, I affect[Footnote: Like] no subject so particularly as this. Were I a composer
of books, I would keepe a register, commented of the divers deaths, which in teaching men to
die, should after teach them to live. Dicearcus made one of that title, but of another and
lesse profitable end. Some man will say to mee, the effect exceeds the thought so farre, that
there is no fence so sure, or cunning so certaine, but a man shall either lose or forget if
he come once to that point; let them say what they list: to premeditate on it, giveth no doubt
a great advantage: and it is nothing, at the least, to goe so farre without dismay or alteration,
or without an ague? There belongs more to it: Nature her selfe lends her hand, and gives us
courage. If it be a short and violent death, wee have no leisure to feare it; if otherwise,
I perceive that according as I engage my selfe in sicknesse, I doe naturally fall into some
disdaine and contempt of life. I finde that I have more adoe to digest this resolution, that
I shall die when I am in health, than I have when I am troubled with a fever: forsomuch as
I have no more such fast hold on the commodities of life, whereof I begin to lose the use and
pleasure, and view death in the face with a lesse undanted looke, which makes me hope, that
the further I goe from that, and the nearer I approach to this, so much more easily doe I enter
in composition for their exchange. Even as I have tried in many other occurrences, which Caesar
affirmed, that often some things seeme greater, being farre from us, than if they bee neere
at hand: I have found that being in perfect health, I have much more beene frighted with sicknesse,
than when I have felt it. The jollitie wherein I live, the pleasure and the strength make the
other seeme so disproportionable from that, that by imagination I amplifie these commodities
by one moitie, and apprehended them much more heavie and burthensome, than I feele them when
I have them upon my shoulders. The same I hope will happen to me of death. Consider we by the
ordinary mutations, and daily declinations which we suffer, how Nature deprives us of the sight
of our losse and empairing; what hath an aged man left him of his youths vigor, and of his
forepast life?

     Heu senibus vita portio quanta manet
     [Footnote: Com. Gal. 1. i. 16.]

     Alas to men in yeares how small
     A part of life is left in all?

Caesar, to a tired and crazed [Footnote: diseased] Souldier of his
guard, who in the open street came to him, to beg leave he might
cause himselfe to be put to death; viewing his decrepit behaviour,
answered pleasantly: "Doest thou thinke to be alive then?" Were man
all at once to fall into it, I doe not thinke we should be able to
beare such a change, but being faire and gently led on by her hand,
in a slow, and as it were unperceived descent, by little and little,
and step by step, she roules us into that miserable state, and day
by day seekes to acquaint us with it. So that when youth failes in
us, we feele, nay we perceive no shaking or transchange at all in
our selves: which in essence and veritie is a harder death, than
that of a languishing and irkesome life, or that of age. Forsomuch
as the leape from an ill being unto a not being, is not so dangerous
or steepie; as it is from a delightfull and flourishing being unto a
painfull and sorrowfull condition. A weake bending, and faint
stopping bodie hath lesse strength to beare and under goe a heavie
burden: So hath our soule. She must bee rouzed and raised against
the violence and force of this adversarie. For as it is impossible
she should take any rest whilest she feareth: whereof if she be
assured (which is a thing exceeding humane [Footnote: human]
condition) she may boast that it is impossible unquietnesse,
torment, and feare, much lesse the least displeasure should lodge in
her.
     [Footnote: Hor. I. iii. Od. iii.]

     No urging tyrants threatning face,
     Where minde is found can it displace,
     No troublous wind the rough seas Master,
     Nor Joves great hand, the thunder-caster.

She is made Mistris of her passions and concupiscence, Lady of indulgence, of shame, of povertie,
and of all for tunes injuries. Let him that can, attaine to this advantage: Herein consists
the true and soveraigne liberty, that affords us meanes wherewith to jeast and make a scorne
of force and injustice, and to deride imprisonment, gives [Footnote: Gyves, shackles] or fetters.

       --in manicis, et
     Compedibus, savo te sub custode tenebo. I. i. Ep. xvi. 76.]

     In gyves and fetters I will hamper thee,
     Under a Jayler that shall cruell be:
     Yet, when I will, God me deliver shall,
     He thinkes, I shall die: death is end of all. Socrates answered one that told him, "The thirty
tyrants have condemned thee to death." "And Nature them," said he.
What fondnesse is it to carke and care so much, at that instant and
passage from all exemption of paine and care? As our birth brought
us the birth of all things, so shall our death the end of all
things. Therefore is it as great follie to weepe, we shall not live
a hundred yeeres hence, as to waile we lived not a hundred yeeres
agoe. "Death is the beginning of another life." So wept we, and so
much did it cost us to enter into this life; and so did we spoile us
of our ancient vaile in entring into it. Nothing can be grievous
that is but once. Is it reason so long to fear a thing of so short
time? Long life or short life is made all one by death. For long or
short is not in things that are no more. Aristotle saith, there are
certaine little beasts alongst the river Hyspanis, that live but one
day; she which dies at 8 o'clocke in the morning, dies in her youth,
and she that dies at 5 in the afternoon, dies in her decrepitude,
who of us doth not laugh, when we shall see this short moment of
continuance to be had in consideration of good or ill fortune? The
most and the least is ours, if we compare it with eternitie, or
equall it to the lasting of mountains, rivers, stars, and trees, or
any other living creature, is not lesse ridiculous. But nature
compels us to it. Depart (saith she) out of this world, even as you
came into it. The same way you came from death to life, returne
without passion or amazement, from life to death: your death is but
a peece of the worlds order, and but a parcell of the worlds life.

   --inter se mortales mutua vivunt,
     Et quasi cursores vitae lampada tradunt.
     [Footnote: Lucret. ii. 74. 77.]

     Mortall men live by mutuall entercourse:
     And yeeld their life-torch, as men in a course.

Shal I not change this goodly contexture of things for you? It is the condition of your creation:
death is a part of yourselves: you flie from yourselves. The being you enjoy is equally shared
betweene life and death. The first day of your birth doth as wel addresse you to die, as to live.

     Prima quae vitam dedit, hora, carpsit.
     [Footnote: Sen. Her. Sw. ckor. Iii.]

