III

Part One

Introduction to Volumes III and IV

France and the Netherlands

The tourist bound for France lands either at Cherbourg, Havre, or Boulogne. At Cherbourg, he
sees waters in which the "Kearsarge" sank the "Alabama"; at Havre a shelter in which, long
before Caesar came to Gaul, ships, with home ports on the Seine, sought safety from the sea;
and at Boulogne may recall the invading expedition to England, planned by Napoleon, but which
never sailed.

From the Roman occupation, many Roman remains have survived in England, but these are far inferior
in numbers and in state of preservation to the Roman remains found in France. Marseilles was
not only an important Roman seaport, but its earliest foundations date perhaps from Phoenician
times, and certainly do from the age when Greeks were building temples at Paestum and Girgenti.
Rome got her first foothold in Marseilles as a consequence of the Punic wars; and in 125 B.C.
acquired a province (Provincia Romana) reaching from the Alps to the Rhone, and southward to
the sea, with Aix as its first capital and Arles its second. Caesar in 58 B.C. found on the
Seine a tribe of men called Parisii, whose chief village, Lutetia, stood where now rises Notre
Dame.

Lutetia afterward became a residence of Roman emperors. Constantius Chlorus spent some time
there, guarding the empire from Germans and Britons, while Julian the Apostate built there
for himself a palace and extensive baths, of which remains still exist in Paris. In that palace
afterward lived Pepin le Bref ("mayor of the palace"), son of Charles Martell, and father of
the great Charles. Romans built there an amphitheater seating ten thousand people, of which
remains are still visible.

Lyons was a great Roman city. Augustus first called it into vigorous life, his wish being to
make it "a second Rome." From Lyons a system of roads ran out to all parts of Gaul. Claudius
was born there; Caligula made it the political and intellectual capital of Provincia; its people,
under an edict of Caracalla, were made citizens of Rome. At Nimes was born the Emperor Antoninus.
In Gaul, Galba, Otho, Vitellius, Vespasian and Domitian were made emperors. At Arles and Nimes
are Roman amphitheaters still regularly put to use for combats between men and wild beasts--but
the wild beasts, instead of lions and tigers, are bulls. At Orange is a Roman theater of colossal
proportions, in which a company from the Theatre Francais annually presents classical dramas.
The magnificent fortress city of Carcassonne has foundation walls that were laid by Romans.
Notre Dame of Paris occupies the site of a temple to Jupiter.

As with modern England, so with modern France; its people are a mixture of many races. To the
southwest, in a remote age, came Iberians from Spain, to Provence, Ligurians from Italy; to
the northeast, Germanic tribes; to the northwest, Scandinavians; to the central parts, from
the Seine to the Garonne, in the sixth century B.C., Gauls, who soon became the dominant race,
and so have remained until this day, masterful and fundamental. When Caesar came, there had
grown up in Gaul a martial nobility, leaders of a warlike people, with chieftains whose names
are familiar in the mouths and ears of all schoolboys--Aricvistus and Vercingetorix. When Vercingetorix
was overthrown at Alesia, Gaul became definitely Roman. For five hundred years it remained
loyal to Rome. Within its borders, was established the Pax Romana, and in 250 A.D., under St.
Denis, Christianity. When the disintegration of the empire set in five centuries afterward,
Gaul was among the first provinces to suffer. With the coming of the Visigoths and Huns from
the Black Sea, the Pranks and Bnrgundians from beyond the Rhine, the Roman fall was near, but
great battles were first fought in Gaul, battles which rivaled those of Caesar five centuries
before. Greatest of all these was the one with Attila, at Chalons, in 451, where thousands
perished.

When the Roman dominion ended, Rome's one great province in Gaul became seventeen small principalities,
and power drifted fast into the hands of a warlike aristocracy. Then a strong man rose in Clovis,
who, in 508, made Lutetia his capital, his successors enriching and adorning it. From these
beginnings, has been evolved, in twelve hundred years, the great modern state--through Charlemagne
and his empire-building, Louis XI. and his work of consolidating feudal principalities into
one strong state, through a Hundred Years' War, fierce wars of religion, a long line of Bourbon
kings, with their chateaux-building in Touraine and Versailles, the Revolution of 1789, the
Napoleonic era, the Republic. An historical land surely is this, and a beautiful land, with
her snow-capped mountains of the southeast, her broad vineyards, unrivaled cathedrals, her
Roman remains, ancient olive groves, her art, her literature, her people.

Belgium and Holland were included in the territory known to Rome as Gaul. Here dwelt a people
called the Belgii, and another called the Nervii--that tribal nation whom Caesar "overcame"
on a summer's day, and the same evening, "in his tent," "put on" the mantle that was pierced
afterward by daggers in the Senate House. From these lands came the skilled Batavian cavalry,
which followed Caesar in pursuit of Pompey and forced Pompey's flight at Pharsalia. From here
afterward came other Batavians, who served as the Imperial Guard of Rome from Caasar's time
to Vespasian's. In race, as in geographical position, the Netherlands have belonged in part
to France, in part to Germany, the interior long remaining Gallic, the frontier Teutonic. From
Caesar's time down to the fifth century, the land was Roman. Afterward, in several periods,
it was in part, or in whole, included in the domain of France--in Charlemagne's time and after;
under Louis XI., who sought, somewhat unsuccessfully, its complete submission; under Louis
XIV., who virtually conquered it; under the French Revolution, and during Napoleon's ascendency.
On Belgium soil Marlborough fought and won Ramillies, and Wellington Waterloo.

Belgium and Holland were for long great centers of European commerce--at Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp,
Rotterdam, Amsterdam--rivals of English ports, Holland an ancient adversary of England and
her valiant enemy in great wars. A still fiercer struggle came with Spain. Perhaps an even
greater conflict than these two has been her never-ending war with the sea. Holland has been
called a land enclosed in a fortress reared against the sea. For generations her people have
warred with angry waves; but, as Motley has said, they gained an education for a struggle "with
the still more savage despotism of man." Let me not forget here Holland's great school of art--comparable
only to that of Spain, or even to that of Italy. F. W. H.

Contents of Volume III

France and the Netherlands--Part One

INTRODUCTION TO VOLS. III AND IV--By the Editor.

I--Paris

The City Beautiful--By Anne Warwick Notre-Dame--By Victor Hugo The Louvre--By Grant Allen The
Madeline and Champs Elysees--By Nathaniel Hawthorne The Hotel des Invalides and Napoleon's
Tomb--By Augustus J. C. Hare The Palais de Justice and Sainte Chapelle--By Grant Allen The
Hotel de Ville and the Conciergerie--By Augustus J. C. Hare Pere la Chaise--By Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow The Musee de Cluny--By Grant Allen The Place de la Bastille--By Augustus J. C. Hare
The Pantheon and St. Etienne du Mont--By Grant Allen St. Roch--By Augustus J. C. Hare

II--The Environs of Paris

Versailles--By William Makepeace Thackeray Versailles in 1739--By Thomas Gray Fontainebleau--By
Augustus J. C. Hare St. Denis--By Grant Allen Marly-Le-Roi--By Augustus J. C. Hare The Village
of Auteuil--By Henry Wadsworth Longfellow The Two Trianons--By Augustus J. C. Hare Malmaison--By
Augustus J. C. Hare St. Germain--By Leitch Ritchie St. Cloud--By Augustus J. C. Hare

III--Old Provence

The Papal Palace at Avignon--By Charles Dickens The Building of the Great Palace--By Thomas
Okey The Walls of Avignon--By Thomas Okey Villeneuve and the Broken Bridge--By Thomas Okey
Orange--By Henry James Vaucluse--By Bayard Taylor The Pont du Guard,--Aigues-Mortes--Nimes--By
Henry James Arles and Les Baux--By Henry James

IV--Cathedrals and Chateaux

Amiens--By Nathaniel Hawthorne Rouen--By Thomas Frognall Dibdin Chartres--By Epiphanius Wilson
Rheims--By Epiphanius Wilson

(Cathedrals and Chateaux continued in Vol. IV)

List of Illustrations

Volume III

Frontispiece Paris: The Seine and Bridges

Notre Dame, Paris Portion of the Louvre, Paris Church of the Madeleine, Paris Napoleon's Sarcophagus,
Paris The Burial Place of Napoleon, Paris Column and Place Vendome, Paris Column of July, Paris
The Pantheon, Paris The House of the Chamber of Deputies, Paris The Bourse, Paris Interior
of the Grand Opera House, Paris Front of the Grand Opera House, Paris The Arc de Triomphe,
Paris Arch Erected by Napoleon Near the Louvre, Paris The Church of St. Vincent de Paul, Paris
The Church of St. Sulpice, Paris The Picture Gallery of Versailles The Bed-Room of Louis XIV.,
Versailles The Grand Trianon at Versailles The Little Trianon at Versailles The Bed-Room of
Catherine de Medici at Chaumont Marie Antoinette's Dairy at Versailles Tours Saint Denis Havre
The Bridge at St. Cloud

I

PARIS

The City Beautiful

By Anne Warwick

[Footnote: From "The Meccas of the World." By permission of the publisher, John Lane. Copyright,
1913.]

The most prejudiced will not deny that Paris is beautiful; or that there is about her streets
and broad, tree-lined avenues a graciousness at once dignified and gay. Stand, as the ordinary
tourist does on his first day, in the flowering square before the Louvre; in the foreground
are the fountains and bright tulip-bordered paths of the Tuileries--here a glint of gold, there
a soft flash of marble statuary, shining through the trees; in the center the round lake where
the children sail their boats. Beyond spreads the wide sweep of the Place de la Concorde, with
its obelisk of terrible significance, its larger fountains throwing brilliant jets of spray;
and then the trailing, upward vista of the Champs Elysees to the great triumphal arch; yes,
even to the most indifferent, Paris is beautiful.

To the subtler of appreciation, she is more than beautiful; she is impressive. For behind the
studied elegance of architecture, the elaborate simplicity of garden, the carefully lavish
use of sculpture and delicate spray, is visible the imagination of a race of passionate creators--the
imagination, throughout, of the great artist. One meets it at every turn and corner, down dim
passageways, up steep hills, across bridges, along sinuous quays; the masterhand and its "infinite
capacity for taking pains." And so marvelously do its manifestations of many periods through
many ages combine to enhance one another that one is convinced that the genius of Paris has
been perennial; that St. Genevieve, her godmother, bestowed it as an immortal gift when the
city was born.

From earliest days every man seems to have caught the spirit of the man who came before, and
to have perpetuated it; by adding his own distinctive yet always harmonious contribution to
the gradual development of the whole. One built a stately avenue; another erected a church
at the end; a third added a garden on the other side of the church, and terraces leading up
to it; a fourth and fifth cut streets that should give from the remaining two sides into other
flowery squares with their fine edifices. And so from every viewpoint, and from every part
of the entire city, to-day we have an unbroken series of vistas--each one different and more
charming than the last.

History has lent its hand to the process, too; and romance--it is not an insipid chain of flowerbeds
we have to follow, but the holy warriors of Saint Louis, the roistering braves of Henry the
Great, the gallant Bourbons, the ill-starred Bonapartes. These as they passed have left their
monuments; it may be only in a crumbling old chapel or ruined tower, but there they are, eloquent
of days that are dead, of a spirit that lives forever staunch in the heart of the fervent French
people.

It comes over one overwhelmingly sometimes, in the midst of the careless gaiety of the modern
city, the old, ever-burning spirit of rebellion and savage strife that underlies it all, and
that can spring to the surface now on certain memorable days, with a vehemence that is terrifying.
Look across the Pont Alexandre, at the serene gold dome of the Invalides, surrounded by its
sleepy barracks. Suddenly you are in the fires and awful slaughter of Napoleon's wars. The
flower of France is being pitilessly cut down for the lust of one man's ambition; and when
that is spent, and the wail of the widowed country pierces heaven with its desolation, a costly
asylum is built for the handful of soldiers who are left--and the great Emperor has done his duty!

Or you are walking through the Cite, past the court of the Palais de Justice. You glance in,
carelessly--memory rushes upon you--and the court flows with blood, "so that men waded through
it, up to the knees!" In the tiny stone-walled room yonder, Marie Antoinette sits disdainfully
composed before her keepers; tho her face is white with the sounds she hears, as her friends
and followers are led out to swell that hideous river of blood.

A pretty, artificial city, Paris; good for shopping, and naughty amusements, now and then.
History? Oh yes, of course; but all that's so dry and uninspiring, and besides it happened
so long ago.

Did it? In your stroll along the Rue Royale, among the jewellers' and milliners' shops and
Maxim's, glance up at the Madeleine, down at the obelisk in the Place de la Concorde. Little
over a hundred years ago, this was the brief distance between life and death for those who
one minute were dancing in the "Temple of Victory," the next were laying their heads upon the
block of the guillotine.

Notre-Dame

By Victor Hugo

[Footnote: From Hugo's "Notre-Dame de Paris." Translated by A.L. Alger. By permission of Dana,
Estes & Co. Copyright, 1888.]

The church of Notre-Dame at Paris is doubtless still a sublime and majestic building. "Tempus
edax, homo edacior;" which I would fain translate thus: "Time is blind, but man is stupid."
Had we leisure to study with the reader, one by one, the various marks of destruction graven
upon the ancient church, the work of Time would be the lesser, the worse that of Men, especially
of "men of art," since there are persons who have styled themselves architects during the last
two centuries.

And what we say of the facades, we must also say of the whole church; and what we say of the
cathedral church of Paris must be said of all the Christian churches of the Middle Ages. Everything
is harmonious which springs from spontaneous, logical, and well-proportioned art. To measure
a toe, is to measure the giant.

Let us return to the facade of Notre-Dame as we see it at the present day, when we make a pious
pilgrimage to admire the solemn and mighty cathedral, which, as its chroniclers declare, inspires
terror. This facade now lacks three important things: first, the eleven steps which formerly
raised it above the level of the ground; next, the lower series of statues which filled the
niches over the doors; and lastly, the upper row of the twenty- eight most ancient kings of
France, which adorned the gallery of the first story, from Childebert down to Philip Augustus,
each holding in his hand "the imperial globe."

The stairs were destroyed by Time, which, with slow and irresistible progress, raised the level
of the city's soil; but while this flood-tide of the pavements of Paris swallowed one by one
the eleven steps which added to the majestic height of the edifice, Time has perhaps given
to the church more than it took away, for it is Time which has painted the front with that
sober hue of centuries which makes the antiquity of churches their greatest beauty.

But who pulled down the two rows of statues? Who left those empty niches? Who carved that new
and bastard pointed arch in the very center of the middle door? Who dared to insert that clumsy,
tasteless, wooden door, carved in the style of Louis XV., side by side with the arabesques
of Biscornette? Who but men, architects, the artists of our day?

And if we step into the interior of the edifice, who overthrew that colossal figure of Saint
Christopher, proverbial among statues by the same right as the great hall of the palace among
halls, as the spire of Strasburg among steeples? And those myriad statues which peopled every
space between the columns of the choir and the nave, kneeling, standing, on horseback, men,
women, children, kings, bishops, men-at-arms--of stone, of marble, of gold, of silver, of copper,
nay even of wax--who brutally swept them away? It was not the hand of Time.

And who replaced the old Gothic altar, with its splendid burden of shrines and reliquaries,
by that heavy marble sarcophagus adorned with clouds and cherubs, looking like a poor copy
of the Val-de-Grace or the Hotel des Invalides? Who was stupid enough to fasten that clumsy
stone anachronism into the Carlovingian pavement of Hercandus? Was it not Louis XIV., fulfilling
the vow of Louis XIII.?

And who set cold white panes in place of that stained glass of gorgeous hue, which led the
wondering gaze of our fathers to roam uncertain 'twixt the rose-window of the great door and
the ogives of the chancel? And what would a precentor of the sixteenth century say if he could
see the fine coat of yellow wash with which our Vandal archbishops have smeared their cathedral?
He would remember that this was the color with which the executioner formerly painted those
buildings judged "infamous;" he would recall the hotel of the Petit-Bourbon, bedaubed with
yellow in memory of the Constable's treason; "a yellow of so fine a temper," says Sauval, "and
so well laid on, that more than a hundred years have failed to wash out its color." He would
fancy that the sacred spot had become accursed, and would turn and flee.

And if we climb higher in the cathedral, without pausing to note a thousand barbarous acts
of every kind, what has become of that delightful little steeple which rested upon the point
of intersection of the transept, and which, no less fragile and no less daring than its neighbor,
the spire of the Sainte-Chapelle, (also destroyed), rose yet nearer heaven than the towers,
slender, sharp, sonorous, and daintily wrought?

An architect of good taste (1787) amputated it, and thought it quite enough to cover the wound
with that large leaden plaster which looks like the lid of a stewpan. Thus was the marvelous
art of the Middle Ages treated in almost every land, but particularly in France. We find three
sorts of injury upon its ruins, these three marring it to different depths; first, Time, which
has made insensible breaches here and there, mildewed and rusted the surface everywhere; then,
political and religious revolutions, which, blind and fierce by nature, fell furiously upon
it, rent its rich array of sculpture and carving, shivered its rose-windows, shattered its
necklaces of arabesques and quaint figures, tore down its statues--sometimes because of their
crown; lastly, changing fashion, even more grotesque and absurd, from the anarchic and splendid
deviations of the Renaissance down to the necessary decline of architecture.

Fashion did more than revolutions. Fashion cut into the living flesh, attacked the very skeleton
and framework of art; it chopped and hewed, dismembered, slew the edifice, in its form as well
as in its symbolism, in its logic no less than in its beauty. But fashion restored, a thing
which neither time nor revolution ever pretended to do. Fashion, on the plea of "good taste,"
impudently adapted to the wounds of Gothic architecture the paltry gewgaws of a day,--marble
ribbons, metallic plumes, a veritable leprosy of egg-shaped moldings, of volutes, wreaths,
draperies, spirals, fringes, stone flames, bronze clouds, lusty cupids, and bloated cherubs,
which began to ravage the face of art in the oratory of Catherine de Medici, and destroyed
it, two centuries later, tortured and distorted, in the Dubarry's boudoir.

There are thus, to sum up the points to which we have alluded, three sorts of scars now disfiguring
Gothic architecture; wrinkles and warts upon the epidermis--these are the work of time; wounds,
brutal injuries, bruises, and fractures--these are the work of revolution, from Luther to Mirabeau;
mutilations, amputations, dislocations of the frame, "restorations,"-- these are the Greek,
Roman barbaric work of professors according to Vitruvius and Vignole. Academies have murdered
the magnificent art which the Vandals produced. To centuries, to revolutions which at least
laid waste with impartiality and grandeur, are conjoined the host of scholastic architects,
licensed and sworn, degrading all they touch with the discernment and selection of bad taste,
substituting the tinsel of Louis XV. for Gothic lace-work, for the greater glory of the Parthenon.
This is the donkey's kick at the dying lion. It is the old oak, decaying at the crown, pierced,
bitten and devoured by caterpillars.

How different from the time when Robert Cenalis, comparing Notre Dame at Paris to the famous
temple of Diana at Ephesus; "so loudly boasted by the ancient pagans," which immortalized Herostratus,
held the cathedral of the Gauls to be "more excellent in length, breadth, height, and structure!"

Notre Dame at Paris is not, however, what can be called a complete, definite monument, belonging
to a class. It is neither a Roman nor a Gothic church. The edifice is not a typical one. It
has not, like the abbey at Tournus, the sober massive breadth, the round expansive arch, the
icy bareness, the majestic simplicity of those buildings based on the semicircular arch. It
is not, like the cathedral at Bourges, the magnificent, airy, multiform, bushy, sturdy, efflorescent
product of the pointed arch. Notre Dame at Paris is not of purely Roman race like the former,
nor of purely Arab breed like the latter.

It is a building of the transition period. The Saxon architect had just reared the pillars
of the nave, when the pointed arch, brought back from the Crusades, planted itself as conqueror
upon those broad Roman capitals which were never meant to support anything but semicircular
arches. The pointed arch, thenceforth supreme, built the rest of the church. And still, inexperienced
and shy at first, it swelled, it widened, it restrained itself, and dared not yet shoot up
into spires and lancets, as it did later on in so many marvelous cathedrals. It seemed sensible
of the close vicinity of the heavy Roman columns.

Moreover, these buildings of the transition from Roman to Gothic are no less valuable studies
than the pure types. They express a gradation of the art which would otherwise be lost. They
represent the ingrafting of the pointed arch upon the semicircular. Thus, to allude only to
leading details, while the little Porte Rouge attains the almost extreme limit of the Gothic
refinement of the fifteenth century, the pillars of the nave, in their size and gravity of
style, go back to the Carlovingian Abbey of Saint-Germain des Pres. One would say that there
was an interval of six centuries between that door and those pillars. Even the Hermetics find
among the symbols of the great door a satisfactory epitome of their science, of which the Church
of St. Jacques de la Boucherie formed so complete a hieroglyph.

Thus, the Roman abbey, the philosopher's church, Gothic art, Saxon art, the clumsy round pillar,
which recalls Gregory VII., the hermetic symbolism by which Nicholas Flamel paved the way for
Luther, papal unity, schism, Saint-Germain des Pres, Saint-Jacques de la Boucherie, are all
confounded, combined and blended in Notre Dame. This central and generative church is a kind
of chimera among the old churches of Paris; it has the head of one, the limbs of another, the
trunk of a third, something of all.

Considering here Christian European architecture only, that younger sister of the grand piles
of the Orient, we may say that it strikes the eye as a vast formation divided into three very
distinct zones or layers, one resting upon the other; the Roman zone, (the same which is also
known according to place, climate, and species, as Lombard, Saxon, and Byzantine. There are
the four sister forms of architecture, each having its peculiar character, but all springing
from the same principle, the semicircular arch,) the Gothic zone, the zone of the Renaissance,
which may be called the Greco-Roman. The Roman stratum, which is the oldest and the lowest,
is occupied by the semicircular arch, which reappears, together with the Greek column, in the
modern and uppermost stratum of the Renaissance. The painted arch is between the two. The buildings
belonging to any one of these three strata are perfectly distinct, uniform, and complete. Such
are the Abbey of Jumieges, the Cathedral of Rheims, the Church of the Holy Cross at Orleans.
But the three zones are blended and mingled at the edges, like the colors in the solar spectrum.
This is caused by the fact that it took six hundred years to build such a fabric. Such is the
charming semi-Gothic chapter-house of Boucherville, where the Roman layer reaches midway. Such
is the cathedral of Rouen, which would be wholly Gothic if the tip of its central spire did
not dip into the zone of the Renaissance. [Footnote: This part of the spire, which was of timber,
happens to be the very part which was burned by lightning in 1823.]

However, all these gradations and differences affect the surface only of an edifice. Art has
but changed its skin. The construction itself of the Christian church is not affected by them.
The interior arrangement, the logical order of the parts, is still the same. Whatever may be
the carved and nicely-wrought exterior of a cathedral, we always find beneath it, if only in
a rudimentary and dormant state, the Roman basilica. It rises forever from the ground in harmony
with the same law. This settled, the number of chapels, doors, steeples, and spires may be
modified indefinitely, according to the fancy of the century, the people, and the art. The
performance of divine service once provided for and assured, architecture acts its own pleasure.
Hence the immense variety in the exteriors of those structures within which dwell such unity
and order. The trunk of the tree is fixt; the foliage is variable.

The Louvre

By Grant Allen

[Footnote: From "Paris."]

The Louvre is the noblest monument of the French Renaissance. From the time of St. Louis onward,
the French kings began to live more and more in the northern suburb, the town of the merchants,
which now assumed the name of La Ville, in contradistinction to the Cite and the Universite.
Two of their chief residences here were the Bastille and the Hotel St. Paul, both now demolished--one,
on the Place so called; the other, between the Rue St. Antoine and the Quai des Celestins.
But from a very early period they also possest a chateau on the site of the Louvre, and known
by the same name, which guarded the point where the wall of Philippe Auguste abutted on the
river. Francois I. decided to pull down this picturesque turreted medieval castle, erected
by Philippe Auguste and altered by Charles V. He began the construction in its place of a magnificent
Renaissance palace, which has ever since been in course of erection.

Its subsequent growth, however, is best explained opposite the building itself, where attention
can be duly called to the succession of its salient features. But a visit to the exterior fabric
of the Louvre should be preceded by one to St. Germain l'Auxerrois, the parish church, and
practically the chapel, of the old Louvre, to which it stood in somewhat the same relation
as the Ste. Chapelle to the home of St. Louis. Note, however, that the church was situated
just within the ancient wall, while the chateau lay outside it. The visitor will doubtless
be tolerably familiar by this time with some parts at least of the exterior of the Louvre;
but he will do well to visit it now systematically, in the order here suggested, so as to gain
a clear general idea of its history and meaning....

Begin by understanding distinctly that this court is the real and original Louvre; the rest
is mere excresence, intended to unite the main building with the Tuileries, which lay some
hundreds of yards to the west of it. Notice, first, that the Palace as a whole, seen from the
point where you now stand, is constructed on the old principle of relatively blank external
walls, like a castle, with an interior courtyard, on which all the apartments open, and almost
all the decoration is lavished. Reminiscences of defense lurk about the Louvre. It can best
be understood by comparison with such ornate, yet fortress-like, Italian palaces as the Strozzi
at Florence. Notice the four opposite portals, facing the cardinal points, which can be readily
shut by means of great doors; while the actual doorways of the various suites of apartments
open only into the protected courtyard. This is the origin of the familiar French porte- cochere.

Again, the portion of the building that directly faces you as you enter the court from St.
Germain is the oldest part, and represents the early Renaissance spirit. It is the most primitive
Louvre. Note in particular the central elevated portion, known as a Pavilion, and graced with
elegant Caryatides. These Pavilions are lingering reminiscences of the medieval towers. You
will find them in the corners and centers of other blocks in the Louvre. They form a peculiarly
French Renaissance characteristic. The Palace is here growing out of the Castle. The other
three sides of the square are, on the whole, more classical and later.

Now across the square directly to the Pavilion de l'Horloge, as it is called, from the clock
which adorns it. To your left, on the floor of the court, are two circular white lines, enclosed
in a square. These mark the site of the original Chateau of the Louvre, with its keep, or donjon.
Francois I., who began the existing building, originally intended that his palace should cover
the same area. It was he who erected the left wing, which now faces you, marked by the crown
and H on its central round gable, placed there by his successor, Henry II., under whom it was
completed. To the same king are also due the monograms of H and D (for Diane de Poitiers, his
mistress), between the columns of the ground floor. The whole of the Pavilion de l'Horloge,
and of this west wing, should be carefully examined in detail as the finest remaining specimen
of highly decorated French Renaissance architecture. (But the upper story of the Pavilion,
with the Caryatides, is an age later.) Observe even the decoration lavished on the beautiful
chimneys. Pierre Lescot was the architect of this earliest wing; the exquisite sculpture is
by Jean Goujon, a Frenchman, and the Italian, Paolo Ponzio. Examine much of it. The crossed
K's of certain panels stand for Catherine de Medici.

The right wing, beyond the Pavilion, was added, in the same style, under Louis XIII., who decided
to double the plan of his predecessors, and form the existing Cour du Louvre.

The other three sides, in a more classic style, with pediments replacing the Pavilions, and
square porticos instead of rounded gables, are for the most part later. The south side, however,
as far as the central door, is also by Pierre Lescot. It forms one of the two fronts of the
original square first contemplated. The attic story of these three sides was added under Louis
XIV., to whom, in the main, is due this Cour du Louvre. A considerable part of Louis XIV.'s
decorations bear reference to his representation as "le roi soleil."

Now, pass through the Pavilion de l'Horloge (called on its west side Pavilion Sully) into the
second of the three courts of the Louvre. To understand this portion of the building, again,
you must remember that shortly after the erection of the Old Louvre, Catherine de Medici began
to build her palace of the Tuileries, now destroyed, to the west of it. She (and subsequent
rulers) designed to unite the Old Louvre with the Tuileries by a gallery which should run along
the bank of the river. Of that gallery, Catherine de Medici herself erected a considerable
portion, to be described later, and Henri IV., almost completed it. Later on, Napoleon I. conceived
the idea of extending a similar gallery along his new Rue de Rivoli, on the north side, so
as to enclose the whole space between the Louvre and the Tuileries in one gigantic double courtyard.
Napoleon III. carried out his idea. The second court in which you now stand is entirely flanked
by buildings of this epoch--the Second Empire. Examine it cursorily as far as the modern statue
of Gambetta.

Stand or take a seat by the railing of the garden opposite the Pavilion Sully. The part that
now faces you forms a portion of the building of Francois I, and Louis XIII., redecorated in
part by Napoleon I. The portions to your right and left are entirely of the age of Napoleon
III., built so as to conceal the want of parallelism of the outer portions. Observe their characteristic
Pavilions, each bearing its own name inscribed upon it. This recent square, tho quite modern
in the character of its sculpture and decoration, is Renaissance in its general architecture,
and, when looked back upon from the gardens of the Tuileries, affords a most excellent idea
of that stately style, as developed in France under Francois I. The whole of this splendid
plan, however, has been rendered futile by the destruction of the Tuileries, without which
the enclosure becomes wholly meaningless.

Now, continue westward, pass the Monument of Gambetta, and take a seat on the steps at the
base, near the fine figure of Truth. In front of you opens the third square of the Louvre,
known as the Place du Carrousel, and formerly enclosed on its west side by the Palace of the
Tuileries, which was unfortunately burned down in 1871, during the conflict between the Municipal
and National authorities. Its place is now occupied by a garden terrace, the view from which
in all directions is magnificent. Fronting you, as you sit, is the Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel,
erected under Napoleon I., by Percier and Fontaine, in imitation of the Arch of Septimius Severus
at Rome, and once crowned by the famous bronze Roman horses from St. Mark's at Venice. The
arch, designed as an approach to the Tuileries during the period of the classical mania, is
too small for its present surroundings, since the removal of the Palace. The north wing, visible
to your right, is purely modern, of the age of the First and Second Empire and the Third Republic.
The meretricious character of the reliefs in its extreme west portion, erected under the Emperor
Napoleon III., and restored after the Commune, is redolent of the spirit of that gaudy period.
The south wing, to your left, forms part of the connecting gallery erected by Henri IV., but
its architecture is largely obscured by considerable alterations under Napoleon III. Its west
pavilion-known as the Pavilion de Flore--is well worth notice.

Having thus gained a first idea of the courtyard fronts of the building, continue your walk,
still westward, along the south wing as far as the Pavilion de Flore, a remaining portion of
the corner edifice which ran into one line with the Palace of the Tuileries. Turn round the
corner of the Pavilion to examine the south or river front of the connecting gallery--one of
the finest parts of the whole building, but far less known to ordinary visitors than the cold
and uninteresting northern line along the Rue de Rivoli. The first portion, as far as the gateways,
belongs originally to the age of Henry IV., but it was entirely reconstructed under Napoleon
III., whose obtrusive N appears in many places on the gateways and elsewhere.

Nevertheless, it still preserves, on the whole, some reminiscence of its graceful Renaissance
architecture. Beyond the main gateway (with modern bronze Charioteer of the Sun), flanked by
the Pavilions de la Tremoille and de Lesdiguieres, we come upon the long Southern Gallery erected
by Catherine de Medici, which still preserves almost intact its splendid early French Renaissance
decoration. This is one of the noblest portions of the entire building. The N here gives place
to H's, and the Renaissance scroll-work and reliefs almost equal those in that portion of the
old Louvre which was erected under Francois I. Sit on a seat on the Quay and examine the sculpture.

Notice particularly the splendid Porte Jean Goujon, conspicuous from afar by its gilded balcony.
Its crowned H's and coats-of-arms are specially interesting examples of the decorative work
of the period. Note also the skill with which this almost flat range is relieved by sculpture
and decoration so as to make us oblivious of the want of that variety usually given by jutting
portions. The end of this long gallery is formed by two handsome windows with balconies. We
there come to the connecting Galerie d'Apollon, of which these windows are the termination,
and finally reach once more a portion of Perrault's facade, with its double LL's, erected under
Louis XIV., and closely resembling the interior facade of the Cour du Louvre....

The Collections in the Louvre have no such necessary organic connection with Paris itself as
Notre Dame and the Sainte-Chapelle, or even those in the rooms at Cluny. They may, therefore,
be examined by the visitor at any period of his visit that he chooses. I would advise him,
however, whenever he takes them up, to begin with the paintings and then to go on to the Classical
and Renaissance Sculpture. The last-named, at least, he should only examine in connection with
the rest of Renaissance Paris. Also, while it is unimportant whether he takes first Painting
or Sculpture, it is very doubtful that he should take each separately in the chronological order.

At least six days--far more, if possible--should be devoted to the Louvre Collections--by far
the most important objects to be seen in Paris. Of these, four should be assigned to the Paintings,
and one each to the Classical and Renaissance Sculpture. If this is impossible, do not try
to see all; see a little thoroughly. Confine yourself, for Painting, to the Salon Carre and
Gallery VII., and for Sculpture to the Classical Gallery and to the three Western rooms of
the Renaissance collection.

The Madeleine and Champs Elysees

By Nathaniel Hawthorne

[Footnote From "French and Italian Note-Books." By arrangement with the publisher, David McKay.
Copyright, 1880.]

We emerge from the Rue de Grenelle opposite the gardens to the north of the magnificent Hotel
des Invalides, planned by Henri IV., and begun by Louis XIV. in 1671, as a refuge for old soldiers,
who, before it was built, had to beg their bread on the streets.

The institution is under the management of the Minister of War, and nothing can be more comfortable
than the life of its inmates. The number of these is now small; in the time of Napoleon I.,
when the institution was called the "Temple of Mars," it was enormous.

On the terrace in front of the building are a number of cannon, trophies taken in different
campaigns. Standing before the hotel is the statue of Prince Eugene. On either side of the
entrance are statues of Mars and Minerva by Coustou the younger. In the tympanum of the semicircle
over the center of the facade is Louis XIV. on horseback. Behind the facade is a vast courtyard
surrounded by open corridors lined with frescoes of the history of France; those of the early
history on the left by Benedict Masson, 1865, have much interest. In the center of the facade
opposite the entrance is the statue of Napoleon I. Beneath this is the approach to the Church
of St. Louis, built 1671-79, from designs of Liberal Bruant, and in which many banners of victory
give an effect of color to an otherwise colorless building....

The Tomb of Napoleon, under the magnificent dome of the Invalides, which was added to the original
church by Jules Hardouin Mansart, and is treated as a separate building, is entered from the
Place Vauban at the back, or by the left cloister and a court beyond.

On entering the vast interior, a huge circular space is seen to open, beneath the cupola painted
by Charles de Lafosse and Jouvenet, and, in it, surrounded by caryatides and groups of moldering
banners, the huge tomb of Finland granite, given by the Emperor Nicholas. Hither the remains
of the great Emperor were brought back from St. Helena by the Prince de Joinville, in 1841,
tho Louis Philippe, while adopting this popular measure as regarded the dead, renewed the sentence
of exile against the living members of the Bonaparte family.

Four smaller cupolas encircle the great dome. In the first, on the right, is the tomb of Joseph
Bonaparte. On the left are the tombs of Jerome Bonaparte, with a statue, and of his eldest
son and the Princess Catherine of Wurtemberg. The other two cupolas are still empty.

Descending the steps behind the splendid baldacchino, we find black-marble tombs of Marshals
Duroc and Bertrand guarding the approach to that of Napoleon I. His own words, taken from his
will, appear in large letters over the entrance: "I desire my ashes to lie on the shores of
the Seine among the people of France whom I loved so deeply."

The sentiment, the tomb, and the dome have a unique splendor. A white- marble statue of Napoleon
I. by Stuart is in a black-marble chapel. His Austerlitz sword, the crown voted by Cherbourg,
and colors taken in his different battles, were formerly shown in a "chapelle ardente."

The Palais de Justice and the Sainte Chapelle

By Grant Allen

[Footnote: From "Paris."]

Go along the Rue de Rivoli as far as the Square of the Tour St. Jacques. If driving, alight
here. Turn down the Place du Chatelet to your right. In front is the pretty modern fountain
of the Chatelet; right, the Theatre du Chatelet; left, the Opera Comique. The bridge which
faces you is the Pont- au-Change, so-called from the money-changers' and jewelers' booths which
once flanked its wooden predecessor (the oldest in Paris), as they still do the Rialto at Venice,
and the Ponte Vecchio at Florence.

Stand by the right-hand corner of the bridge before crossing it. In front is the Ile de la
Cite. The square, dome-crowned building opposite you to the left is the modern Tribunal de
Commerce; beyond it leftward lie the Marche-aux-Fleurs and the long line of the Hotel-Dieu,
above which rise the towers and spire of Notre Dame. In front, to the right, the vast block
of buildings broken by towers forms part of the Palais de Justice, the ancient Palace of the
French kings, begun by Hugh Capet. The square tower to the left in this block is the Tour de
l'Horloge. Next, to the right, come the two round towers of the Conciergerie, known respectively
as the Tour de Cesar and the Tour de Montgomery. The one beyond them, with battlements, is
the Tour d'Argent. It was in the Conciergerie that Marie Antoinette, Robespierre, and many
other victims of the Revolution were imprisoned.

These medieval towers, much altered and modernized, are now almost all that remains of the
old Palace, which, till after the reign of Louis IX. (St. Louis), formed the residence of the
Kings of France. Charles VII. gave it in 1431 to the Parlement or Supreme Court. Ruined by
fires and re-building, it now consists for the most part of masses of irregular recent edifices.
The main modern facade fronts the Boulevard du Palais.

Cross the bridge. The Tour de l'Horloge on your right, at the corner of the Boulevard du Palais,
contains the oldest public clock in France (1370). The figures of Justice and Pity by its side
were originally designed by Germain Pilon, but are now replaced by copies. Walk round the Palais
by the quay along the north branch of the Seine till you come to the Rue de Harlay. Turn there
to your left, toward the handsome and imposing modern facade of this side of the Palais de
Justice. The interior is unworthy a visit. The Rue de Harlay forms the westernmost end of the
original Ile de la Cite. The prow-shaped extremity of the modern island has been artificially
produced by embanking the sites of two or three minor islets. The Palace Dauphine, which occupies
the greater part of this modern extension, was built in 1608; it still affords a characteristic
example of the domestic Paris of the period before Baron Haussmann.

Continue along the quay as far as the Pont-Neuf, so as to gain an idea of the extent of the
Ile de la Cite in this direction. The center of the Pont-Neuf is occupied by an equestrian
statue of Henri IV., first of the Bourbon kings. Its predecessor was erected in 1635, and was
destroyed to make cannon during the great Revolution. Louis XVIII. re-erected it. From this
point you can gain a clear idea of the two branches of the Seine as they unite at the lower
end of the Ile de la Cite. To your right, looking westward, you also obtain a fine view of
the Colonnade of the Old Louvre, with the southwestern gallery, and the more modern buildings
of the Museum behind it.

Now, walk along the southern quay of the island, round the remainder of the Palais de Justice,
as far as the Boulevard du Palais. There turn to your left, and go in at the first door of
the Palace on the left (undeterred by sentries) into the court of the Sainte Chapelle, the
only important relic now remaining of the home of Saint Louis. You may safely neglect the remainder
of the building.

The thirteenth century was a period of profound religious enthusiasm throughout Europe. Conspicuous
among its devout soldiers was Louis IX., afterward canonized as St. Louis. The saintly king
purchased from Baldwin, Emperor of Constantinople, the veritable Crown of Thorns, and a fragment
of the True Cross--paying for these relics an immense sum of money. Having become possest of
such invaluable and sacred objects, Louis desired to have them housed with suitable magnificence.
He therefore entrusted Pierre de Montereau with the task of building a splendid chapel (within
the precincts of his palace), begun in 1245, and finished three years later, immediately after
which the king set out on his Crusade. The monument breathes throughout the ecstatic piety
of the mystic king; it was consecrated in 1248, in the name of the Holy Crown and the Holy
Cross, by Eudes de Chateauroux, Bishop of Tusculum and papal legate.

Three things should be noted about the Sainte Chapelle. (1) It is a chapel, not a church; therefore
it consists (practically) of a choir alone, without nave or transepts. (2) It is the domestic
Chapel of the Royal Palace. (3) It is, above all things, the Shrine of the Crown of Thorns.
These three points must be constantly borne in mind in examining the building.

Erected later than Notre-Dame, it represents the pointed style of the middle of the thirteenth
century, and is singularly pure and uniform throughout. Secularized at the Revolution, it fell
somewhat into decay; but was judiciously restored by Viollet-le-Duc and others. The "Messe
Rouge," or "Messe du St. Esprit," is still celebrated here once yearly, on the re-opening of
the courts after the autumn vacation, but no other religious services take place in the building.
The Crown of Thorns and the piece of the True Cross are now preserved in the Treasury at Notre
Dame.

Examine the exterior in detail from the court on the south side. More even than most Gothic
buildings, the Sainte Chapelle is supported entirely by its massive piers, the wall being merely
used for enclosure, and consisting for the most part of lofty windows. As in most French Gothic
buildings, the choir terminates in a round apse, whereas English cathedrals have usually a
square end. The beautiful light fleche or spire in the center has been restored. Observe the
graceful leaden angel, holding a cross, on the summit of the chevet or round apse. To see the
facade, stand well back opposite it, where you can observe that the chapel is built in four
main stories--those, namely, of the Lower Church or crypt, of the Upper Church, of the great
rose window (with later flamboyant tracery), and of the gable-end, partially masked by an open
parapet studded with the royal fleurs-de-lis of France. The Crown of Thorns surrounds the two
pinnacles which flank the fourth story.

The chapel consists of a lower and an upper church. The Lower Church is a mere crypt, which
was employed for the servants of the royal family. Its portal has in its tympanum (or triangular
space in the summit of the arch) the Coronation of the Virgin, and on its center pillar a good
figure of the Madonna and Child. Enter the Lower Church. It is low, and has pillars supporting
the floor above. In the polychromatic decoration of the walls and pillars, notice the frequent
repetition of the royal lilies of France, combined with the three castles of Castille, in honor
of Blanche of Castille, the Mother of St. Louis.

Mount to the Upper Chapel (or Sainte Chapelle proper) by the small spiral staircase in the
corner. This soaring pile was the oratory where the royal family and court attended service;
its gorgeousness bespeaks its origin and nature. It glows like a jewel. First go out of the
door and examine the exterior and doorway of the chapel. Its platform was directly approached
in early times from the Palace. The center pillar bears a fine figure of Christ. In the tympanum
(as over the principal doorway of almost every important church in Paris and in the district)
is a relief of the Last Judgment. Below stands St. Michael with his scales, weighing the souls;
on either side is depicted the Resurrection, with the Angels of the Last Trump. Above, in the
second tier, is Christ, holding up His hands with the marks of the nails, as a sign of mercy
to the redeemed: to right and left of Him angels display the Crown of Thorns and the True Cross,
to contain which sacred relics the chapel was built.

On the extreme left kneels the Blessed Virgin; on the extreme right, Sainte Genevieve. This
scene of the Last Judgment was adapted with a few alterations from that above the central west
door of Notre Dame, the Crown of Thorns in particular being here significantly substituted
for the three nails and spear. The small lozenge reliefs to right and left of the portal are
also interesting. Those to the left represent in a very naive manner God the Father creating
the world, sun and moon, light, plants, animals, man, etc. Those to the right give the story
of Genesis, Cain and Abel, the Flood, the Ark, Noah's Sacrifice, Noah's Vine, etc., the subjects
of all which the visitor can easily recognize, and is strongly recommended to identify for himself.

The interior consists almost entirely of large and lofty windows, with magnificent stained
glass, in large part ancient. The piers which divide the windows and alone support the graceful
vault of the roof, are provided with statues of the twelve apostles, a few of them original.
Each bears his well-known symbol. Spell them out if possible. Beneath the windows, in the quatrefoils
of the arcade, are enamelled glass mosaics representing the martyrdoms of the saints--followers
of Christ, each wearing his own crown of thorns: a pretty conceit wholly in accord with St.
Louis's ecstatic type of piety. Conspicuous among them are St. Denis carrying his head, St.
Sebastian pierced with arrows, St. Stephen stoned, St. Lawrence on his gridiron, etc. The apse
(formerly separated from the body of the building by a rood-screen, now destroyed), contains
the vacant base of the high altar, behind which stands an arcaded tabernacle, now empty, in
whose shrine were once preserved the Crown of Thorns, the fragment of the True Cross, and other
relics.

Among them in the later times was included the skull of St. Louis himself in a golden reliquary.
Two angels at the summit of the large center arch of the arcade bear a representation of the
Crown of Thorns in their hands. Above the tabernacle rises a canopy or baldacchino, approached
by two spiral staircases; from its platform St. Louis and his successors, the kings of France,
were in the habit of exhibiting with their own hands the actual relics themselves once a year
to the faithful. The golden reliquary in which the sacred objects were contained was melted
down in the Revolution. The small window with bars to your right, as you face the high altar,
was placed there by the superstitious and timid Louis XI., in order that he might behold the
elevation of the Host and the sacred relics without being exposed to the danger of assassination.
The visitor should also notice the inlaid stone pavement, with its frequent repetition of the
fleur-de-lis and the three castles. The whole breathes the mysticism of St. Louis; the lightness
of the architecture, the height of the apparently unsupported roof, and the magnificence of
the decoration, render this the most perfect ecclesiastical building in Paris.

In returning from the chapel, notice on the outside, from the court to the south, the apparently
empty and useless porch, supporting a small room, which is the one through whose grated window
Louis XI. used to watch the elevation.

The Hotel de Ville and the Conciergerie

By Augustus J. C. Hare

[Footnote: From "Walks In Paris." By arrangement with the publisher, David McKay. Copyright, 1880.]

It was Etienne Marcel, Mayor of Paris, who first established the municipal council at the Place
de Greve, at that time the only large square in Paris. In July, 1357, he purchased as a Hostel
de Ville the Maison aux Piliers, which had been inhabited by Clemence d'Hongrie, widow of Louis
le Hutin, and which afterward took the name of Maison du Dauphin from her nephew and heir,
Guy, Dauphin de Viennois.

In 1532 a new Hotel de Ville was begun and finished by the architect Marin de la Vallee in
the reign of Henri IV. This was so much altered by successive restorations and revolutions
that only a staircase, two monumental chimney-pieces in the Salle du Trone, and some sculptured
doorways and other details remained from the interior decorations in the old building at the
time of its destruction.

Till the time of Louis XVI. the history of the Hotel de Ville was entirely local; after that
it became the history of France. It was there that Louis XVI. received the tri-colored cockade
from Bailly, Mayor of Paris, July 17, 1789; and there, in the chamber called, from its hangings,
Le Cabinet Vert, that Robespierre was arrested, in the name of the Convention, during one of
the meetings of the Commune, July 27, 1794. After the fall of Robespierre it was seriously
proposed to pull down the Hotel de Ville, because it had been his last asylum--"Le Louvre de
Robespierre." It was only saved by the common-sense of Leonard Bourdon.

But most of all, in the popular recollection, is the Hotel de Ville connected with public fetes--with
those on the second marriage of Napoleon I. (1810), on the entry of Louis XVIII. (1814), on
the coronation of Charles X. (1825), on the marriage of the Duke of Orleans (1837), on the
visits of different foreign potentates to Napoleon III. Here also was the Republic proclaimed,
September 4, 1870.

It was in one of the windows of the Hotel de Ville that Louis Philippe embraced Lafayette (August,
1830) in sight of the people, to evince the union of the July monarchy with the bourgeoisie.
On the steps of the building Louis Blanc proclaimed the Republic, February 24,1848. From September
4, 1870, to February 28, 1871, the hotel was the seat of the "government of the national defense,"
and from March 19 to May 22, 1871, that of the pretended "Committee of public safety" of the
Communists. On May 24 it was burned by its savage defenders, many of whom happily perished
in the flames.

The Place de l'Hotel de Ville is so modernized that it retains nothing of the Place de Greve
but its terrible historic associations. Among the many fearful executions here, it is only
necessary to recall that of Jean Hardi, torn to pieces by four horses (March 30, 1473) on an
accusation of trying to poison Louis XI.; that of the Comte de St. Pol (December 19, 1475),
long commemorated by a pillar; those of a long list of Protestants, opened by the auto-de-fe
of Jacques de Povanes, student of the University, in 1525; that of Nicholas de Salcede, Sieur
d'Auvillers, torn to pieces by four horses in the presence of the king and queens, for conspiracy
to murder the Duc d'Anjou, youngest son of Catherine de Medici. More terrible still was the
execution of Ravaillac (May 27, 1610) murderer of Henri IV.

"The executioner cut off his hand with an ax, and threw it and the murderous knife into the
fire. His breasts, his arms and his legs were torn with pincers, and boiling oil and melted
lead poured into the open wounds. He was then dismembered by four strong horses, which pulled
for no less than an entire hour. They dismembered only a corpse. He expired," says L'Estoile,
"at the second or third pull." When the executioner had to throw the limbs into the fire that
the ashes, according to the sentence, might be flung to the winds, the whole crowd rushed on
to claim them. "But," adds the same chronicler, "the people rushed on so impetuously that every
mother's son had a piece, even the children, who made fires of them at the corners of the streets."

After the capture of the Bastille its brave governor, M. de Launay, was beheaded on the steps
of the Hotel de Ville, and his major, M. de Losme- Salbray, was massacred under the Arcade
St. Jean. These were the first victims of the Revolution. Foulon, Intendant du Commerce, suffered
here soon afterward, hung from the cords by which a lamp was suspended, whence the expression,
which soon resounded in many a popular refrain, of "put the aristocrats to the lantern."

     *    *    *    *    *

Two parasite buildings, the Conciergerie, and the Prefecture of Police, are now annexed to
the Palais de Justice. The Conciergerie takes its name from the house of the concierge in the
time of the royal residence here, who had a right to two chickens a day and to the cinders
and ashes of the king's chimney.

It has always been a prison, and it was here that the Comte d'Armagnac was murdered, June 12,
1418. Here was made, below the level of the Seine, the prison called La Souriciere, from the
rats which had the reputation of eating the prisoners alive. The present Conciergerie occupies
the lower story of the right wing of the existing Palais de Justice, and extends along the
Quai de l'Horloge, as far as the towers of Montgomery and Cesar. It has an entrance on the
quay, before which the guillotine-carts received the victims of the Reign of Terror, and another
to the right of the great staircase in the Cour d'Honneur.

All other associations of the Conciergerie are lost in those which were attached to it by the
great Revolution. The cell in which Marie Antoinette suffered her seventy-five days' agony--from
August 2 till October 15, when she was condemned--was turned into a chapel of expiation in
1816. The lamp still exists which lighted the august prisoner and enabled her guards to watch
her through the night. The door still exists, tho changed in position, which was cut transversely
in half and the upper part fixt that the queen might be forced to bend in going out, because
she had said that whatever indignities they might inflict upon her they could never force her
to bend the head.

After her condemnation, Marie Antoinette was not brought back to this chamber. It was a far
more miserable cell which saw her write her last touching farewell to Madame Elizabeth. But
this was the room in which the Girondins spent their last night, when, as Riouffe, himself
in the prison at the time, says, "all during this frightful night their songs sounded and if
they stopt singing it was but to talk about their country." The adjoining cell, now used as
a sacristy, was the prison of Robespierre.

Pere la Chaise

By Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

[Footnote: From "Outre Mer." Published by Houghton, Mifflin Co.]

The cemetery of Pere la Chaise is the Westminster Abbey of Paris. Both are the dwellings of
the dead; but in one they repose in green alleys and beneath the open sky--in the other their
resting-place is in the shadowy aisle, and beneath the dim arches of an ancient abbey. One
is a temple of nature; the other a temple of art. In one, the soft melancholy of the scene
is rendered still more touching by the warble of birds and the shade of trees, and the grave
receives the gentle visit of the sunshine and the shower; in the other, no sound but the passing
footfall breaks the silence of the place; the twilight steals in through high and dusky windows;
and the damps of the gloomy vault lie heavy on the heart, and leave their stain upon the moldering
tracery of the tomb.

Pere la Chaise stands just beyond the Barriere d'Aulney, on a hill-side, looking toward the
city. Numerous gravel-walks, winding through shady avenues and between marble monuments, lead
up from the principal entrance to a chapel on the summit. There is hardly a grave that has
not its little inclosure planted with shrubbery; and a thick mass of foliage half conceals
each funeral stone. The sighing of the wind, as the branches rise and fall upon it,--the occasional
note of a bird among the trees, and the shifting of light and shade upon the tombs beneath,
have a soothing effect upon the mind; and I doubt whether any one can enter that inclosure,
where repose the dust and ashes of so many great and good men, without feeling the religion
of the place steal over him, and seeing something of the dark and gloomy expression pass off
from the stern countenance of death.

It was near the close of a bright summer afternoon that I visited this celebrated spot for
the first time. The object that arrested my attention, on entering, was a monument in the form
of a small Gothic chapel, which stands near the entrance, in the avenue leading to the right
hand. On the marble couch within are stretched two figures, carved in stone and drest in the
antique garb of the Middle Ages. It is the tomb of Abelard and Heloise. The history of these
unfortunate lovers is too well known to need recapitulation; but perhaps it is not so well
known how often their ashes were disturbed in the slumber of the grave. Abelard died in the
monastery of Saint Marcel, and was buried in the vaults of the church. His body was afterward
removed to the convent of the Paraclet, at the request of Heloise, and at her death her body
was deposited in the same tomb. Three centuries they reposed together; after which they were
separated to different sides of the church, to calm the delicate scruples of the lady- abbess
of the convent. More than a century afterward, they were again united in the same tomb; and
when at length the Paraclet was destroyed, their moldering remains were transported to the
church of Nogent-sur- Seine. They were next deposited in an ancient cloister at Paris; and
now repose near the gateway of the cemetery of Pere la Chaise. What a singular destiny was
theirs! that, after a life of such passionate and disastrous love,--such sorrows, and tears,
and penitence--their very dust should not be suffered to rest quietly in the grave!--that their
death should so much resemble their life in its changes and vicissitudes, its partings and
its meetings, its inquietudes and its persecutions!--that mistaken zeal should follow them
down to the very tomb--as if earthly passion could glimmer, like a funeral lamp, amid the damps
of the charnel-house, and "even in their ashes bum their wonted fires!"....

Leaving this interesting tomb behind me, I took a pathway to the left, which conducted me up
the hill-side. I soon found myself in the deep shade of heavy foliage, where the branches of
the yew and willow mingled, interwoven with the tendrils and blossoms of the honeysuckle. I
now stood in the most populous part of this city of tombs. Every step awakened a new train
of thrilling recollections; for at every step my eye caught the name of some one whose glory
had exalted the character of his native land, and resounded across the waters of the Atlantic.
Philosophers, historians, musicians, warriors, and poets slept side by side around me; some
beneath the gorgeous monument, and some beneath the simple headstone. But the political intrigue,
the dream of science, the historical research, the ravishing harmony of sound, the tried courage,
the inspiration of the lyre--where are they? With the living, and not with the dead! The right
hand has lost its cunning in the grave; but the soul, whose high volitions it obeyed, still
lives to reproduce itself in ages yet to come.

Among these graves of genius I observed here and there a splendid monument, which had been
raised by the pride of family over the dust of men who could lay no claim either to the gratitude
or remembrances of posterity. Their presence seemed like an intrusion into the sanctuary of
genius. What had wealth to do there? Why should it crowd the dust of the great? That was no
thoroughfare of business--no mart of gain! There were no costly banquets there; no silken garments,
nor gaudy liveries, nor obsequious attendants!....

I continued my walk through the numerous winding paths, as chance or curiosity directed me.
Now I was lost in a little green hollow, overhung with thick-leaved shrubbery, and then came
out upon an elevation, from which, through an opening in the trees, the eye caught glimpses
of the city, and the little esplanade, at the foot of the hill, where the poor lie buried.
There poverty hires its grave, and takes but a short lease of the narrow house. At the end
of a few months, or at most of a few years, the tenant is dislodged to give place to another,
and he in turn to a third. "Who," says Sir Thomas Browne, "knows the fate of his bones, or
how often he is to be buried? Who hath the oracle of his ashes, or whither they are to be scattered?"

Yet, even in that neglected corner, the hand of affection had been busy in decorating the hired
house. Most of the graves were surrounded with a slight wooden paling, to secure them from
the passing footstep; there was hardly one so deserted as not to be marked with its little
wooden cross, and decorated with a garland of flowers; and here and there I could perceive
a solitary mourner, clothed in black, stooping to plant a shrub on the grave, or sitting in
motionless sorrow beside it....

After rambling leisurely about for some time, reading the iscriptions on the various monuments
which attracted my curiosity, and giving way to the different reflections they suggested, I
sat down to rest myself on a sunken tombstone. A winding gravel-walk, overshaded by an avenue
of trees, and lined on both sides with richly sculptured monuments, had gradually conducted
me to the summit of the hill, upon whose slope the cemetery stands. Beneath me in the distance,
and dim-discovered through the misty and smoky atmosphere of evening, rose the countless roofs
and spires of the city. Beyond, throwing his level rays athwart the dusky landscape, sank the
broad red sun. The distant murmur of the city rose upon my ear; and the toll of the evening
bell came up, mingled with the rattle of the paved street and the confused sounds of labor.
What an hour for meditation! What a contrast between the metropolis of the living and the metropolis
of the dead!....

Before I left the graveyard the shades of evening had fallen, and the objects around me grown
dim and indistinct. As I passed the gateway, I turned to take a parting look. I could distinguish
only the chapel on the summit of the hill, and here and there a lofty obelisk of snow-white
marble, rising from the black and heavy mass of foliage around, and pointing upward to the
gleam of the departed sun, that still lingered in the sky, and mingled with the soft starlight
of a summer evening.

The Musee de Cluny

By Grant Allen

[Footnote: From "Paris."]

The primitive nucleus of the suburb on the South Side consists of the Roman fortress palace,
the "tete du pont" of the Left Bank, now known as the Thermes, owing to the fact that its principal
existing remains include only the ruins of the bath or therma. This colossal building, probably
erected by Constantius Chlorus, the father of Constantine, covered an enormous area south of
the river. After the Frankish conquest, it still remained the residence of the Merwing and
Karling kings on the rare occasions when they visited Paris; and it does not seem to have fallen
into utter decay till a comparatively late date in the Middle Ages.

With the Norman irruptions, however, and the rise of the real French monarchs under Eudes and
the Capets, the new sovereigns found it safest to transfer their seat to the Palace on the
Island (now the Palais de Justice), and the Roman fortress was gradually dismantled. In 1340
the gigantic ruins came into the hands of the powerful Benedictine Abbey of Cluny, near Macon,
in Burgundy; and about 1480, the abbots began to erect on the spot a town mansion for themselves,
which still bears the name of the Hotel de Cluny. The letter K, the mark of Charles VIII. (1483-1498),
occurs on many parts of the existing building, and fixes its epoch. The house was mostly built
by Jaques d'Amboise, abbot, in 1490. The style is late Gothic, with Renaissance features.

The abbots, however, seldom visited Paris, and they frequently placed their town house accordingly
at the disposition of the kings of France. It was usual for the queens of France to wear white
as mourning; hence her apartment is still known as the "Chambre de la reine blanche."

At the Revolution, when the property of the monasteries was confiscated, the Hotel de Cluny
was sold, and passed at last, in 1833, into the hands of M. du Sommerard, a zealous antiquary,
who began the priceless collection of works of art which it contains. He died in 1842, and
the Government then bought the house and museum, and united it with the Roman ruin at its back
under the title of Musee des Thermes et de l'Hotel de Cluny. Since that time many further objects
have been added to the collection.

At Cluny the actual building forms one of the most interesting parts of the sight, and is in
itself a museum. It is a charming specimen of a late medieval French mansion; and the works
of art it contains are of the highest artistic value.... At least two whole days should be
devoted to Cluny--one to the lower and one to the upper floor. Much more, if possible. This
marks the site of the famous castle- prison of the Bastille, which for four centuries and a
half terrified Paris, and which has left a name to the quarter it frowned upon. Hugues Ambriot,
Mayor of Paris, built it under Charles V. to defend the suburb which contained the royal palace
of St. Paul. Unpopular from the excess of his devotion to his royal master, Aubriot was the
first prisoner in his own prison.

Perhaps the most celebrated of the long list of after captives were the Connetable de St. Pol
and Jacques d'Armagnac, Due de Nemours, taken thence for execution to the Place de Greve under
Louis XI., Charles de Gontaut, Due de Biron, executed within the walls of the fortress under
Henri IV., and the "Man with the Iron Mask," brought hither mysteriously, September 18, 1698,
and who died in the Bastille, November 19, 1703.

A thousand engravings show us the Bastille as it was--as a "fort-bastide" --built on the line
of the city walls just to the south of the Porte St. Antoine, surrounded by its own moat. It
consisted of eight round towers, each bearing a characteristic name, connected by massive walls,
ten feet thick, pierced with narrow slits by which the cells were lighted. In the early times
it had entrances on three sides, but after 1580 only one, with a drawbridge over the moat on
the side toward the river, which led to outer courts and a second drawbridge, and wound by
a defended passage to an outer entrance opposite the Rue des Tournelles.

Close beside the Bastille, to the north, rose the Porte St. Antoine, approached over the city
fosse by its own bridge, at the outer end of which was a triumphal arch built on the return
of Henri II. from Poland in 1573. Both gate and arch were restored for the triumphal entry
of Louis XIV. in 1667; but the gate (before which Etienne Marcel was killed, July, 1358), was
pulled down in 1674.

The Bastille was taken by the people, July 14, 1789, and the National Assembly decreed its
demolition.... The massive circular pedestal upon which the Colonne de Juillet now rests was
intended by Napoleon I. to support a gigantic fountain in the form of an elephant, instead
of the column which, after the destruction of the Bastille, the "tiers etat" of Paris had asked
to erect "a Louis XVI., restaurateur de la liberte publique." It is characteristic of the Parisians
that on the very same spot the throne of Louis Philippe was publicly burned, February 24, 1848.
The model for the intended elephant existed here till the middle of the reign of Louis Philippe,
and is depicted by Victor Hugo as the lodging of "Le petit Gavroche."

The Pantheon and St. Etienne-Du-Mont

By Grant Allen

[Footnote: From "Paris."]

The medieval church of Ste. Genevieve, having fallen into decay in the middle of the eighteenth
century, Louis XV. determined to replace it by a sumptuous domed edifice in the style of the
period. This building, designed by Soufflot, was not completed till the Revolution, when it
was immediately secularized as the Pantheon, under circumstances to be mentioned later. The
remains of Ste. Genevieve, which had lain temporarily meanwhile in a sumptuous chapel of St.
Etienne-du-Mont (the subsidiary church of the monastery) were taken out by the Revolutionists;
the medieval shrine, or reliquary (which replaced St. Eloy's), was ruthlessly broken up; and
the body of the patroness and preserver of Paris was publicly burned in the Place de Greve.

This, however, strange to say, was not quite the end of Ste. Genevieve. A few of her relics
were said to have been preserved: some bones, together with a lock of the holy shepherdess's
hair, were afterward recovered, and replaced in the sarcophagus they had once occupied. Such
at least is the official story; and these relics, now once more enclosed in a costly shrine,
still attract thousands of votaries to the chapel of the saint in St. Etienne-du-Mont.

The Pantheon, standing in front of the original church, is now a secular burial-place for the
great men of France. The remains of Ste. Genevieve still repose at St. Etienne. Thus it is
impossible to dissociate the two buildings, which should be visited together; and thus too
it happens that the patroness of Paris has now no church in her own city. Local saints are
always the most important; this hill and Montmartre are still the holiest places in Paris.

Proceed, as far as the garden of the Thermes, as on the excursion to Cluny. Then continue straight
up the Boulevard St. Michel. The large edifice visible on the right of the Rue des Ecoles to
your left, is the new building of the Sorbonne, or University. Further up, at the Place du
Sorbonne, the domed church of the same name stands before you. It is the University church,
and is noticeable as the earliest true dome erected in Paris. The next corner shows one, right,
the Luxembourg garden, and left, the Rue Soufflot, leading up to the Pantheon.

The colossal domed temple which replaces the ancient church of Ste. Genevieve was begun by
Soufflot, under Louis XV., in imitation of St. Peter's, at Rome. Like all architects of his
time, Soufflot sought merely to produce an effect of pagan or "classical" grandeur, peculiarly
out of place in the shrine of the shepherdess of Nanterre. Secularized almost immediately on
its completion, during the Revolution, the building was destined as the national monument to
the great men of France, and the inscription, "Aux Grands Hommes la Patrie Reconnaissante,"
which it still bears, was then first placed under the sculptures of the pediment.

Restored to worship by the Restoration, it was again secularized under the Third Republic in
order to admit the burial of Victor Hugo. The building itself, a vast bare barn of the pseudo-classical
type, very cold and formal, is worthy of notice merely on account of its immense size and its
historic position; but it may be visited to this day with pleasure, not only for some noble
modern paintings, but also for the sake of the reminiscences of Ste. Genevieve which it still
contains. The tympanum has a group by David d'Angers, representing France distributing wreaths
to soldiers, politicians, men of letters, men of science, and artists.

The interior is in the shape of a Greek cross (with equal arms). Follow round the walls, beginning
from the right. In the right aisle are paintings (modern) looking like frescoes, and representing
the preaching of St. Denis, by Galand; and the history of Ste. Genevieve--her childhood, recognition
by St. Germain l'Auxerrois, miracles, etc., delicate and elusive works, by Puvis de Chavannes.
The paintings of the South Transept represent episodes in the early history of France. Chronologically
speaking, they begin from the east central corner. Choir, Death of Ste. Genevieve, and Miracles
before her Shrine, by Laurens. Apse of the tribune, fine modern (archaic) mosaic, by Hebert,
representing Christ with the Guardian Angel of France, the Madonna, Jean d'Arc, and Ste. Genevieve.
Stand under the dome to observe the proportions of the huge, bare, unimpressive building. Left,
or Northern Transept, east side, the history of Jeanne d'Arc; she hears the voices; leads the
assault at Orleans; assists at the coronation of Charles VII. at Rheims; and is burned at Rouen.
West side, St. Louis as a child instructed by Blanche of Castille; administering justice in
the Palace; and a captive among the Saracens. North aisle, history of Ste. Genevieve and St.
Denis. The building is thus at once the apotheosis of patriotism, and the lasting memorial
of the part borne by Christianity in French, and especially Parisian, history.

As you descend the steps of the Pantheon, the building that faces you to the left is the Mairie
of the 5th Arrondissement; that to the right, the Ecole de Droit. Turn to the right along the
north side of the Pantheon. The long, low building which faces you is the Bibliotheque Ste.
Genevieve. Nothing now remains of the Abbey of Ste. Genevieve except the tall early Gothic
tower seen to the right near the end of the Pantheon, and rising above the modern buildings
of the Lycee Henri IV. The singularly picturesque and strangely-mingled church across the little
square is St. Etienne-du-Mont, which we now proceed to visit.

Stand in the left-hand corner of the Place to examine the facade. The church was begun (1517)
as late Gothic; but before it was finished, the Renaissance style had come into fashion, and
the architects accordingly jumbled the two in the most charming manner. The incongruity here
only adds to the beauty. The quaintly original Renaissance portal bears a dedication to St.
Stephen the Protomartyr, beneath which is a relief of his martyrdom, with a Latin inscription,
"Stone destroyed the temple of the Lord," i.e., Stephen, "Stone rebuilds it." Right and left
of the portal are statues of Sts. Stephen and Genevieve, whose monograms also appear on the
doors. In the pediment is the usual representation of the Resurrection and Last Judgment. Above
it, the rose window, on either side of which, in accordance with Italian rather than with French
custom (showing Italian Renaissance influence) are the Angel of the Annunciation and the Madonna
receiving his message. In the third story, a gable-end. Singular tower to the left, with an
additional round turret, a relic of the earlier Gothic building. The whole facade (17th century)
represents rather late Renaissance than transitional architecture.

The interior is the most singular, and in some ways the most picturesque, in Paris--a Gothic
church, tricked out in Renaissance finery. The nave is flanked by aisles, which are divided
from it by round pillars, capped by a singular balustrade or gallery with low, flat arches,
simulating a triforium. The upper arches are round, and the decorations Renaissance; but the
vaulting, both of nave and aisles, with its pendant keystones, recalls the Gothic style, as
do also most of the windows. Stand near the entrance, in the center of the nave, and look up
the church.

The most striking feature is the beautiful Renaissance jube or rood-loft (the only one now
left in Paris) which divides the Choir from the body of the building. This rood-loft still
bears a crucifix, for the reception of which it was originally intended. On the arch below
are two charmingly sculptured Renaissance angels. The rood-loft is flanked by two spiral staircases,
which are wholly unique architectural features. Notice also the exquisite pendentive of the
roof at the point of intersection of the nave and short false transepts.

Now walk up the right aisle. The first chapel is the Baptistery, containing the font and a
modern statue of the boy Baptist. Third chapel, St. Antony of Padua. The fourth chapel contains
a curious Holy Sepulcher, with quaint life-size terra-cotta figures of the 16th century. Fifth
chapel, a gilt chasse. Notice the transepts, reduced to short arms, scarcely, if at all, projecting
beyond the chapels. From this point examine the exquisite Renaissance tracery of the rood-screen
and staircases. Then pass under the fine Renaissance door, with lovely decorative work, into
the ambulatory. The Choir is in large part Gothic, with late flamboyant tracery. The apparent
triforium is continued round the ambulatory.

The splendid gilded shrine in the second choir-chapel contains the remains of Ste. Genevieve,
or what is left of them. Candles burn perpetually around it. Hundreds of votaries here pay
their devotions daily to the Patroness of Paris. The shrine, containing what is alleged to
be the original sarcophagus of the Saint (more probably of the 13th century) stands under a
richly-gilt Gothic tabernacle, adorned with figures legibly named on their pedestals. The stained-glass
window behind it has a representation of a processional function with the body of the Saint,
showing this church, together with a view of the original church of Ste. Genevieve, the remaining
tower, and adjacent houses, historically most interesting. The window beyond the shrine also
contains the history of Ste. Genevieve--her childhood, first communion, miracles, distribution
of bread during the siege of Paris, conversion of Clovis, death, etc.

Indeed the long sojourn of the body of Ste. Genevieve in this church has almost overshadowed
its dedication to St. Stephen, several memorials of whom may, however, be recognized by the
attentive visitor--among them, a picture of his martyrdom (by Abel de Pujol) near the entrance
to the choir. The Protomartyr also stands, with his deacon's robe and palm, in a niche near
the door of the sacristy, where left and right are frescoes of his Disputation with the Doctors,
and his Martyrdom. The chapel immediately behind the high altar is, as usual, the Lady Chapel.
The next contains a good modern window of the Marriage of the Virgin.

Examine in detail all the windows; one of the mystic wine-press is very interesting. Votive
offerings of the city of Paris to Ste. Genevieve also exist in the ambulatory. Curious frescoes
of the martyrdom of the 10,000 Christians on Mount Ararat on the north side. The best view
of the choir is obtained from the north side of the ambulatory, opposite the shrine of Ste.
Genevieve. In the north aisle notice St. Louis with the Crown of Thorns. Stand again in the
center of the nave, near the entrance, and observe the curious inclination of the choir and
high altar to one side-- here particularly noticeable, and said in every case to represent
the droop of the Redeemer's head on the cross.

As you emerge from the door, observe the cold and bare side of the Pantheon, contrasted with
the internal richness of St. Etienne. Curious view of the late Gothic portion of the church
from the little Place on the north side. Return by the Rue Cujas and Rue St. Jacques, passing
the Lycee Ste. Barbe, Lycee Louis-le-Grand, University, and other scholastic buildings, which
give a good idea of the character of the quarter. They have all the picturesqueness of innumerable
balconies, high, slated roofs, with dormer windows, window-boxes full of carnations and bright
with crimson flowers through the summer, and they overlook an ever-changing crowd, in great
part composed of men in blouses and women in white aprons and caps.

Ever since the fourteenth century the Rue St. Honore has been one of the busiest streets in
Paris. It was the gate leading into this street which was attacked by Jeanne d'Arc in 1429.
It was the fact that the Cardinal de Bourbon and the Due de Guise had been seen walking together
at the Porte St. Honore that was said to have turned half the moustache of Henri of Navarre
suddenly white, from a presentiment of the crime which has become known as the Massacre of
St. Bartholomew. Here, in 1648, the barricade was raised which gave the signal for all the
troubles of the Fronde. It was at No 3--then called L'Auberge des Trois Pigeons--that Ravaillac
was lodging when he was waiting to murder Henry IV.; here the first gun was fired in the Revolution
of July, 1830, which overturned Charles X.; and here, in the Revolution of 1848, a bloody combat
took place between the insurgents and the military. Throughout this street, as Marie Antoinette
was first entering Paris, the poissardes brought her bouquets, singing:

  "La rose est la reine des fleurs.
  Antoinette est la reine des coeurs."

("Madame Veto had promised to have the throat cut of all Paris, but her attempt failed, thanks
to our gunners. Let us dance the carmagnole to the music of the cannon's roar!")

     *    *    *    *    *

Turning east toward Old Paris, we pass, on the right of the Rue St. Honore, the Church of St.
Roch, of which Louis XIV. laid the foundation- stone in 1633, replacing a chapel built on the
site of the Hotel Gaillon. The church was only finished, from designs of Robert de Cotte, in
1740. The flight of steps which leads to the entrance has many associations.

"Before St. Roch," says De Goncourt, "the tumbrel in which was Marie Antoinette, stopt in the
midst of howling and hooting. A thousand insults were hurled from the steps of the church as
it were with one voice, saluting with filth their queen about to die. She, however, serene
and majestic, pardoned the insults by disregarding them." It was from these steps, in front
of which an open space then extended to the Tuileries gardens, that Bonaparte ordered the first
cannon to be fired upon the royalists who rose against the National Convention, and thus prevented
a counter-revolution. Traces of this cannonade of 13 Vendemiaire are still to be seen at the
angle of the church and the Rue Neuve St. Roch. The time only was out of joint.

I forget whether Monsieur the fat Count of Provence took any share of this royal masquerading;
but look at the names of the other six actors of the comedy, and it will be hard to find any
person for whom Fate had such dreadful visitations in store. Fancy the party, in the days of
their prosperity, here gathered at Trianon, and seated under the tall poplars by the lake,
discoursing familiarly together: suppose, of a sudden, some conjuring Cagliostro of the time
is introduced among them, and foretells to them the woes that are about to come.

"You, Monsieur l'Aumonier, the descendant of a long line of princes, the passionate admirer
of that fair queen who sits by your side, shall be the cause of her ruin and your own, [Footnote:
In the diamond-necklace affair.] and shall die in disgrace and exile. You, son of the Condes,
shall live long enough to see your royal race overthrown, and shall die by the hands of a hangman.
[Footnote: He was found hanging in his own bed- room.] You, oldest son of St. Louis, shall
perish by the executioner's ax; that beautiful head, O Antoinette, the same ruthless blade
shall sever."

"They shall kill me first," says Lamballe, at the queen's side.

"Yes, truly," says the soothsayer, "for Fate prescribes ruin for your mistress and all who
love her."

[Footnote: Among the many lovers that rumor gave to the Queen, poor Fersen is the most remarkable.
He seems to have entertained for her a high and perfectly pure devotion. He was the chief agent
in the luckless escape to Varennes; was lurking in Paris during the time of her captivity;
and was concerned in the many fruitless plots that were made for her rescue. Fersen lived to
be an old man, but died a dreadful and violent death. He was dragged from his carriage by the
mob. In Stockholm, and murdered by them.--Author's note.]

"And," cries Monsieur d'Artois, "do I not love my sister, too? I pray you not to omit me in
your prophecies."

To whom Monsieur Cagliostro says, scornfully, "You may look forward to fifty years of life,
after most of these are laid in the grave. You shall be a king, but not die one; and shall
leave the crown only; not the worthless head that shall wear it. Thrice shall you go into exile;
you shall fly from the people, first, who would have no more of you and your race; and you
shall return home over half a million of human corpses, that have been made for the sake of
you, and of a tyrant as great as the greatest of your family. Again driven away, your bitterest
enemy shall bring you back. But the strong limbs of France are not to be chained by such a
paltry yoke as you can put on her: you shall be a tyrant, but in will only; and shall have
a scepter, but to see it robbed from your hand."

"And pray, Sir Conjurer, who shall be the robber?" asked Monsieur the Count d'Artois.

This I can not say, for here my dream ended. The fact is, I had fallen asleep on one of the
stone benches in the Avenue de Paris, and at this instant was awakened by a whirling of carriages
and a great clattering of national guards, lancers, and outriders, in red. His Majesty, Louis
Philippe, was going to pay a visit to the palace; which contains several pictures of his own
glorious actions, and which has been dedicated, by him, to all the glories of France.

Versailles in 1739

By Thomas Gray

[Footnote: From a letter to his friend West.]

What a huge heap of littleness! It is composed, as it were, of three courts, all open to the
eye at once, and gradually diminishing till you come to the royal apartments, which on this
side present but half a dozen windows and a balcony. This last is all that can be called a
front, for the rest is only great wings. The hue of all this mass is black, dirty red, and
yellow; the first proceeding from stone changed by age; the second, from a mixture of brick;
and the last, from a profusion of tarnished gilding. You can not see a more disagreeable tout
ensemble; and, to finish the matter, it is all stuck over in many places with small busts of
a tawny hue between every two windows.

We pass through this to go into the garden, and here the case is indeed altered; nothing can
be vaster and more magnificent than the back front; before it a very spacious terrace spreads
itself, adorned with two large basons; these are bordered and lined (as most of the others)
with white marble, with handsome statues of bronze reclined on their edges. From hence you
descend a huge flight of steps into a semi-circle formed by woods, that are cut all around
into niches, which are filled with beautiful copies of all the famous antique statues in white
marble. Just in the midst is the bason of Latona; she and her children are standing on the
top of a rock in the middle, on the sides of which are the peasants, some half, some totally
changed into frogs, all which throw out water at her in great plenty.

From this place runs on the great alley, which brings you into a complete round, where is the
bason of Apollo, the biggest in the gardens. He is rising in his car out of the water, surrounded
by nymphs and tritons, all in bronze, and finely executed, and these, as they play, raise a
perfect storm about him; beyond this is the great canal, a prodigious long piece of water,
that terminates the whole. All this you have at one coup d'oeil in entering the garden, which
is truly great.

I can not say as much of the general taste of the place: everything you behold savors too much
of art; all is forced, all is constrained about you; statues and vases sowed everywhere without
distinction; sugar loaves and minced pies of yew; scrawl work of box, and little squirting
jets- d'eau, besides a great sameness in the walks, can not help striking one at first sight,
not to mention the silliest of labyrinths, and all Aesop's fables in water; since these were
designed "in usum Delphini" only.

Here, then, we walk by moonlight, and hear the ladies and the nightingales sing. Next morning,
being Whitsunday, make ready to go to the installation of nine Knights du Saint Esprit. Cambis
is one: high mass celebrated with music, great crowd, much incense, King, Queen, Dauphin, Mesdames,
Cardinals, and Court: Knights arrayed by his Majesty; reverences before the altar, not bows,
but curtsies; stiff hams; much tittering among the ladies; trumpets, kettledrums, and fifes.

Fontainebleau

By Augustus J. C. Hare

[Footnote: From "Days Near Paris."]

The golden age of Fontainebleau came with the Renaissance and Francis I., who wished to make
Fontainebleau the most glorious palace in the world. "The Escurial!" says Brantome, "what of
that? See how long it was of building? Good workmen like to be quick finished. With our king
it was otherwise. Take Fontainebleau and Chambord. When they were projected, when once the
plumb-line, and the compass, and the square, and the hammer were on the spot, then in a few
years we saw the Court in residence there."

Il Rosso was first (1531) employed to carry out the ideas of Francois I. as to painting, and
then Sebastian Serlio was summoned from Bologna in 1541 to fill the place of "surintendant
des bastiments et architecte de Fontainebleau." Il Rosso-Giovambattista had been a Florentine
pupil of Michelangelo, but refused to follow any master, having, as Vasari says, "a certain
inkling of his own." Francois I. was delighted with him at first, and made him head of all
the Italian colony at Fontainebleau, where he was known as "Maitre Roux." But in two years
the king was longing to patronize some other genius, and implored Giulio Romano, then engaged
on the Palazzo del Te at Mantua, to come to him. The great master refused to come himself,
but in his place sent the Bolognese Primaticcio, who became known in France as Le Primatice.

The new-comer excited the furious jealousy of Il Rosso, whom he supplanted in favor and popularity,
and who, after growing daily more morose, took poison in 1541. Then Primaticcio, who, to humor
his rival had been sent into honorable exile (on plea of collecting antiquities at Rome), was
summoned back, and destroyed most of Il Rosso's frescoes, replacing them by his own. Those
that remain are now painted over, and no works of Il Rosso are still in existence (unless in
engravings) except some of his frescoes at Florence.

With the Italian style of buildings and decorations, the Italian system of a Court adorned
by ladies was first introduced here under Francois I., and soon became a necessity.... Under
Francois I., his beautiful mistress, the Duchesse d'Etampes--"la plus belle des savantes, et
la plus savante des belles," directed all the fetes. In this she was succeeded, under Henry
II., by Diane de Poitiers, whose monogram, interwoven with that of the king, appears in all
the buildings of this time, and who is represented as a goddess (Diana) in the paintings of
Primaticcio.

Under Francois II., in 1560, by the advice of the queen-mother, an assembly of notables was
summoned at Fontainebleau; and here, accompanied by her 150 beautiful maids of honor, Catherine
de Medici received the embassy of the Catholic sovereigns sent to demand the execution of the
articles of the Council of Trent, and calling for fresh persecution of the reformers.

Much as his predecessors had accomplished, Henri IV. did more for the embellishment of Fontainebleau,
where the monogram of his mistress, Gabrielle d'Estrees, is frequently seen mingled with that
of his wife, Marie de Medici. All the Bourbon kings had a passion for hunting, for which Fontainebleau
afforded especial facilities.

It was at Fontainebleau that Louis XIII. was born, and that the Marechal de Biron was arrested.
Louis XIII. only lived here occasionally. In the early reign of Louis XIV., the palace was
lent to Christina, of Sweden, who had abdicated her throne.

It was in one of the private apartments, occupying the site of the ancient Galerie des Cerfs,
now destroyed, that she ordered the execution of her chief equerry, Monaldeschi, whom she had
convicted of treason. She listened patiently to his excuses, but was utterly unmoved by them
and his entreaties for mercy. She provided a priest to confess him, after which he was slowly
butchered by blows with a sword on the head and face, as he dragged himself along the floor,
his body being defended by a coat of mail....

Even after the creation of the palaces of Versailles and Marly, Louis XIV. continued to make
an annual "voyage de Fontainebleau." He compelled his whole court to follow him; if any of
his family were ill, and unable to travel by road, he made them come by water; for himself,
he slept on the way, either at the house of the Duc d'Antin (son of Mme. de Montespan) or of
the Marechal de Villeroy.

It was here that the Grand Dauphin was born, in 1661. Here, also, it was that Mme. de Maintenon
first appeared at the councils, and that the king publicly asked her advice as to whether he
should accept the throne of Spain for the Duc d' Anjou. Here, also, in 1685, he signed the
revocation of the edict of Nantes. The great Conde died in the palace. Louis XV. was married
here to Marie Leczinska in 1725; and here the Dauphin, his son, died in 1765. Louis XIV. delighted
in Fontainebleau for its hunting facilities.

After the Revolution, Napoleon I. restored the chateau and prepared it for Pius VII. who came
to France to crown him, and was here (January 25, 1813) induced to sign the famous Concordat
de Fontainebleau, by which he abjured his temporal sovereignty. The chateau which witnessed
the abdication of the Pope, also saw that of Napoleon I., who made his touching farewell to
the soldiers of the Vielle-Garde in the Cour du Cheval-Blanc, before setting off for Elba....
The Cour du Cheval-Blanc, the largest of the five courts of the palace, took its name from
a plaster copy of the horse of Marcus Aurelius at Rome, destroyed 1626. Recently it has been
called the Cour des Adieux, on account of the farewell of Napoleon I. in 1814. It was once
surrounded by buildings on all sides; one was removed in 1810, and replaced by a grille.

The principal facade is composed of five pavilions with high roofs, united by buildings two
stories high. The beautiful twisted staircase in front of the central pavilion was executed
by Lemercier for Louis XIII., and replaces a staircase by Philbert Delorme. Facing this pavilion,
the mass of buildings on the right is the Aile Neuve of Louis XV., built on the site of the
Galerie d'Ulysse, to the destruction of the precious works of Primaticcio and Niccolo dell'
Abbate, with which it was adorned. Below the last pavilion, near the grille, was the Grotte
du Jardin-des-pins, where James V. of Scotland, coming over to marry Magdalen of France, daughter
of Francois I., watched her bathing with her ladies, by the aid of a mirror....

To the west of the Cour du Cheval-Blanc, and communicating with it, is the Cour de la Fontaine,
the main front of which is formed by the Galerie de Francois I. This faces the great tank,
into which Gaston d' Orleans, at eight years old, caused one of the courtiers to be thrown,
whom he considered to have spoken to him disrespectfully. One side of the Cour de la Fontaine,
that toward the Jardin Anglais, is terminated by a pavilion of the time of Louis XV.; the other,
formerly decorated with statues is attributed to Serlio. The fountain from which the court
takes its name has been often changed; a poor work by Petitot now replaces the grand designs
of the time of Francois I. and Henri IV. Beyond this court we find, on the left, the Porte
Doree, which faces the Chaussee de Maintenon, between the Etang and Parterre; it was built
under Francois I., and decorated by Primaticcio with paintings, restored in 1835. It was by
this entrance that Charles V. arrived at the palace in 1539....

A staircase now leads to the first floor, and we enter the apartments of Napoleon I., all furnished
in the style of the First Empire. The cabinet de l'Abdication is the place where he resigned
his power. His bedroom (containing the bed of Napoleon I., the cradle of the King of Rome,
and a cabinet of Marie Louise) leads to the Salle du Conseil, which was the Salon de Famille
under Louis Philippe. Its decorations are by Boucher, and are the best of the period. It was
in leaving this room that the Marechal de Biron was arrested under Henri IV., in a cabinet
which is now thrown into the adjoining Salle du Trone, (previously the bedroom of the Bourbon
kings), dating from Charles IV., but decorated under Louis XIII. A fine portrait by Phillipe
de Champaigne represents Louis XIII. It is accompanied by his device in allusion to his vehemence
in the extermination of heresy.

The adjoining boudoir de Marie Antoinette is a beautiful little room, painted by Barthelemy.
The metal work of the windows is said to have been wrought by Louis XVI. himself, who had his
workshop here, as at Versailles. The richly decorated Chambre a Coucher de la Reine was inhabited
by Marie de Medici, Marie Therese, Marie Antoinette, Marie Louise, and Marie Amelie. The silk
hangings were given by the town of Lyons to Marie Antoinette on her marriage. The Salon de
Musique was the Salon du jeu de la Reine, under Marie Antoinette. The ancient Salon de Clorinde,
or des Dames d' Honneur, is named from its paintings by Dubois and from the "Gerusalemme Liberata."

The Galerie de Diane, built by Napoleon I. and Louis XVIII., replaces the famous frescoed gallery
of Henri IV. It is now turned into a library for the use of the town. In the center is a picture
of Henri IV. on horseback, by Mauzaise. The Salles des Chasses contain pictures of hunting
scenes under Louis XV. We now reach the glorious Galerie d' Henri II. (or Salle des Fetes),
built by Francois I., and decorated by Henri II. The walnut- wood ceiling and the paneling
of the walls are of marvelous richness. Over the chimney is a gigantic H, and the initials
of Henri II. are constantly seen interlaced with those of Diane de Poitiers.... The sixty paintings
on the walls, including eight large compositions, were executed by Niccolo Dell' Abbate, and
are probably the finest decorations of the kind existing in France.

The rooms usually shown last are those formerly inhabited by Catherine de Medici and Anne of
Austria, and which, under the First Empire, were used by Pius VII., under Louis Philippe, by
the Duke and Duchess of Orleans. The most interesting of these are the Chambre a Coucher, which
bears the oft-repeated A L (the chiffre of Louis XIII. and Anne of Austria), and in which Pius
VII. daily said mass, and the Salon, with its fine tapestry after Giulio Romano. The Galerie
des Assiettes, adorned with Sevres china, only dates from Louis Philippe. Hence, by a gallery
in the Aile Neuve, hung with indifferent pictures, we may visit the Salle du Theatre, retaining
its arrangements for the emperor, empress, and court.

The Gardens, as seen now, are mostly as they were rearranged by Lenotre for Louis XIV. The
most frequented garden is the Parterre, entered from the Place du Cheval-Blanc. In the center
of the Jardin Anglais (entered through the Cour de la Fontaine) was the Fontaine Bleau, which
is supposed by some to have given a name to the palace. The Etang has a pavilion in the center,
where the Czar Peter got drunk. The carp in the pool, overfed with bread by visitors, are said
to be, some of them, of immense age. John Evelyn mentions the carp of Fontainebleau, "that
come familiarly to hand." The Jardin de l' Orangerie, on the north of the palace, called Jardin
des Buis under Francois I., contains a good renaissance portal. To the east of the parterre
and the town is the park, which has no beauty, but harmonizes well with the chateau.

Visitors should not fail to drive in the Forest, 80 kilometers in circuit, and, if they return
late, may look out for its black huntsman--"le grand veneur." ... The forest was a favorite
hunting-ground of the kings of France to a late period. It was here that the Marquis de Tourzel,
Grand Provost of France, husband of the governess of the royal children, fractured his skull,
his horse bolting against a tree, when hunting with Louis XVI., in November, 1786. The forest
is the especial land of French artists, who overrun and possess it in the summer. There are
innumerable direction-posts, in which all the red marks--put up by Napoleon III., because so
few peasants could read--point to town.

St. Denis

By Grant Allen

[Footnote: From "Paris."]

About six miles north of the original Paris stands the great Basilica of St. Denis--the only
church in Paris, and I think in France, called by that ancient name, which carries us back
at once to the days of the Roman Empire, and in itself bears evidence to the antiquity of the
spot as a place of worship. Around it, a squalid modern industrial town has slowly grown up;
but the nucleus of the whole place, as the name itself shows, is the body and shrine of the
martyred bishop, St. Denis. Among the numerous variants of his legend, the most accepted is
that in which the apostle of Paris carries his head to this spot from Montmartre. Others say
he was beheaded in Paris and walked to Montmartre, his body being afterward translated to the
Abbey; while there are some who see in this legend a survival of the Dionysiac festival and
sacrifice of the vine-growers round Paris--Denis--Dionysius--Dionysus.

However that may be, a chapel was erected in 275 above the grave of St. Denis, on the spot
now occupied by the great Basilica; and later, Ste. Genevieve was instrumental in restoring
it. Dagobert I., one of the few Frankish kings who lived much in Paris, built a "basilica"
in place of the chapel (630), and instituted by its side a Benedictine Abbey. The church and
monastery which possest the actual body of the first bishop and great martyr of Paris formed
naturally the holiest site in the neighborhood of the city; and even before Paris became the
capital of a kingdom, the abbots were persons of great importance in the Frankish state.

The desire to repose close to the grave of a saint was habitual in early times, and even (with
the obvious alteration of words) ante-dated Christianity--every wealthy Egyptian desiring in
the same way to "sleep with Osiris." Dagobert himself was buried in the church he founded,
beside the holy martyr; and in later times this very sacred spot became for the same reason
the recognized burial place of the French kings. Dagobert's fane was actually consecrated by
the Redeemer Himself, who descended for the purpose by night, with a great multitude of saints
and angels.

The existing Basilica, tho of far later date, is the oldest church of any importance in the
neighborhood of Paris. It was begun by Suger, abbot of the monastery, and sagacious minister
of Louis VI. and VII., in 1121. As yet, Paris itself had no great church, Notre-Dame having
been commenced some 50 years later. The earliest part of Suger's building is in the Romanesque
style; it still retains the round Roman arch and many other Roman constructive features. During
the course of the 50 years occupied in building the Basilica, however, the Gothic style was
developed; the existing church therefore exhibits both Romanesque and Gothic work, with transitional
features between the two, which add to its interest. Architecturally, then, bear in mind, it
is in part Romanesque, passing into Gothic. The interior is mostly pure Early Gothic.

The neighborhood to Paris, the supremacy of the great saint, and the fact that St. Denis was
especially the Royal Abbey, all combined to give it great importance. Under Suger's influence,
Louis VI. adopted the oriflamme or standard of St. Denis as the royal banner of France. The
Merovingian and Carlovingian kings, to be sure--Germans rather than French--had naturally been
buried elsewhere, as at Aix-la-Chapelle, Rheims, and Soissons (tho even of them a few were
interred beside the great bishop martyr). But as soon as the Parisian dynasty of the Capets
came to the throne, they were almost without exception buried at St. Denis. Hence the abbey
came to be regarded at last mainly as the mausoleum of French royalty, and is still too often
so regarded by tourists.

But tho the exquisite Renaissance tombs of the House of Valois would well deserve a visit on
their own account, they are, at St. Denis, but accessories to the great Basilica. Besides the
actual tombs, too, many monuments were erected here, in the 13th century (by St. Louis) and
afterward, to earlier kings buried elsewhere, some relic of whom, however, the abbey possest
and thus honored. Hence several of the existing tombs are of far later date than the kings
they commemorate; those of the Valois almost alone are truly contemporary.

At the Revolution, the Basilica suffered irreparable losses. The very sacred reliquary containing
the severed head of St. Denis was destroyed, and the remains of the martyr and his companions
desecrated. The royal bones and bodies were also disinterred and flung into trenches indiscriminately.
The tombs of the kings were condemned to destruction, and many (chiefly in metal) were destroyed
or melted down, but not a few were saved with difficulty by the exertions of antiquaries, and
were placed in the Museum of Monuments at Paris (now the Ecole des Beaux-Arts), of which Alexandre
Lenoir was curator. Here, they were greatly hacked about and mutilated, in order to fit them
to their new situations.

At the Restoration, however, they were sent back to St. Denis, together with many other monuments
which had no real place there; but, being housed in the crypt, they were further clipt to suit
their fresh surroundings. Finally, when the Basilica was restored under Viollet-le-Duc, the
tombs were replaced as nearly as possible in their old positions; but several intruders from
elsewhere are still interspersed among them. Louis XVIII. brought back the mingled bones of
his ancestors from the common trench and interred them in the crypt. As regards the tombs,
again, bear in mind these facts. All the oldest have perished; there are none here that go
back much further than the age of St. Louis, tho they often represent personages of earlier
periods or dynasties. The best are those of the Renaissance period. These are greatly influenced
by the magnificent tomb of Giangaleazzo Visconti at the Certosa di Pavia, near Milan. Especially
is this the case with the noble monument of Louis XII., which closely imitates the Italian
work. Now, you must remember that Charles VIII. and Louis XII. fought much in Italy, and were
masters of Milan; hence this tomb was familiar to them; and their Italian experiences had much
to do with the French Renaissance. The Cardinal d'Amboise, Louis's minister, built the Chateau
de Gaillon, and much of the artistic impulse of the time was due to these two. Henceforth recollect
that tho Francois I. is the prince of the Renaissance, Louis XII. and his minister were no
mean forerunners....

The interior is most beautiful. The first portion of the church which we enter is a vestibule
or Galilee under the side towers and end of the Nave. Compare Durham. It is of the age of Abbot
Suger, but already exhibits pointed arches in the upper part. The architecture is solid and
massive, but somewhat gloomy.

Descend a few steps into the Nave, which is surrounded by single aisles, whose vaulting should
be noticed. The architecture of this part, now pure Early Gothic, is extremely lovely. The
triforium is delicate and graceful. The windows in the clerestory above it, representing kings
and queens, are almost all modern. Notice the great height of the Nave, and the unusual extent
to which the triforium and clerestory project above the noble vaulting of the aisles. Note
that the triforium itself opens directly to the air, and is supplied with stained-glass windows,
seen through its arches. Sit awhile in this light and lofty Nave, in order to take in the beautiful
view up the church toward the choir and chevet. Then walk up to the Barrier near the Transepts,
where sit again, in order to observe the Choir and Transepts with the staircase which leads
to the raised Ambulatory. Observe that the transepts are simple. The ugly stained glass in
the windows of their clerestory contains illustrations of the reign of Louis Philippe, with
extremely unpicturesque costumes of the period. The architecture of the Nave and Choir, with
its light and airy arches and pillars, is of the later 13th century.

The reason for this is that Suger's building was thoroughly restored from 1230 onward, in the
pure pointed style of that best period. The upper part of the Choir, and the whole of the Nave
and Transepts was then rebuilt-- which accounts for the gracefulness and airiness of its architecture
when contrasted with the dark and heavy vestibule of the age of Suger.

Note from this point the arrangement of the Choir, which, to those who do not know Italy, will
be quite unfamiliar. As at San Zeno in Verona, San Miniato in Florence, and many other Romanesque
churches, the Choir is raised by some steps above the Nave and Transepts; while the Crypt is
slightly deprest beneath them. In the Crypt, in such cases, are the actual bodies of the saints
buried there; while the Altar stands directly over their tombs in the Choir above it.

Marly-Le-Roi

By Augustus J. C. Hare

[Footnote: From "Days Near Paris."]

The tram stops close to the Abreuvoir, a large artificial tank, surrounded by masonry for receiving
the surplus water from the fountains in the palace gardens, of which it is now the only remnant.
Ascending the avenue on the right, we shall find a road at the top which will lead us, to the
left, through delightful woods to the site of the palace. Nothing remains but the walls supporting
the wooded terrace.

It is difficult to realize the place as it was, for the quincunces of limes which stood between
the pavilions on either side of the steep avenue leading to the royal residence, formerly dipt
and kept close, are now huge trees, marking still the design of the grounds, but obscuring
the views, and, by their great growth, making the main avenue very narrow. St. Simon exaggerates
the extravagance of Louis XIV. at Marly, who spent there four and a half million francs between
1679 and 1690, and probably as much or more between 1690 and 1715, perhaps in all ten or twelve
millions, which would represent fifty million francs at the present time. Nevertheless the
expense of the amusements of Louis XIV. greatly exceeded the whole revenue of Henri IV., and
those of the early years of Louis XIII.

From the central pavilion in which the flattery of Mansart placed him as the sun, Louis XIV.
emerged every morning to visit the occupiers of the twelve smaller pavilions, Les Pavilions
des Seigneurs, the constellations, his courtiers, who came out to meet him and swelled his
train. These pavilions, arranged on each side of the gardens, stood in double avenues of clipt
lime-trees looking upon the garden and its fountains, and leading up to the palace.

The device of the sun was carried out in the palace itself, where all the smaller apartments
circled round the grand salon, the king and queen having apartments to the back, the dauphin
and dauphine to the front, each apartment consisting of an anteroom, bedroom, and sitting-room,
and each set being connected with one of the four square saloons, which opened upon the great
octagonal hall, of which four faces were occupied by chimney- pieces and four by the doors
of the smaller saloons. The central hall occupied the whole height of the edifice, and was
lighted from the upper story.

The great ambition of every courtier was to be of the Marly circle, and all curried favor with
the king by asking to accompany him on his weekly journey to Marly. The Court used to arrive
at Marly on a Wednesday and leave it on a Saturday; this was an invariable rule. The king always
passed his Sundays at Versailles, which was his parish. ... The leading figure at Marly was
Mme. de Maintenon, who occupied the apartments intended for Queen Marie Therese, but who led
the simplest of lives, bored almost to extinction. She used to compare the carp languishing
in the tanks of Marly to herself--"Like me they regret their native mud." ... At first Mme.
de Maintenon dined, in the midst of the other ladies in the square salon which separated her
apartment from that of the king; but soon she had a special table, to which a very few other
ladies, her intimates, came by invitation.

Marly was the scene of several of the most tragic events in the life of Louis XIV. "Everything
is dead here, there's no life in any thing," wrote the Comtesse de Caylus, niece of Mme. de
Maintenon, from Marly to the Princess des Ursins, after the death of the Duchesse de Bourgogne.
And, in a few days afterward, Marly was the scene of the sudden death of the Dauphin, Duc de
Bourgogne, the beloved pupil of Fenelon. Early in the morning after the death of his wife,
he was persuaded, "ill and anguished with the most intimate and bitterest of sorrows," to follow
the king to Marly, where he entered his own room by a window on the ground floor.

It was also at Marly--"ill-omened Marly"--that the Duc de Berry, the younger grandson of Louis
XIV., and husband of the profligate daughter of the Duc d' Orleans--afterward Regent, died,
with great suspicion of poison, in 1714. The MS. memorials of Mary Beatrice by a sister of
Chaillot, describe how, when Louis XIV. was mourning his beloved grandchildren, and that queen,
whom he had always liked and respected, had lost her darling daughter Louisa, she went to visit
him at Marly where "they laid aside all Court etiquette, weeping together in their common grief,
because, as the Queen said, 'We saw that the aged were left, and that death had swept away
the young.'" St. Simon depicts the last walk of the king in the gardens at Marly on August
10, 1715. He went away that evening to Versailles, where he died on September 1.

Marly was abandoned during the whole time of the Regency, and was only saved from total destruction
in 1717, when the Regent Philippe d'Orleans had ordered its demolition, by the spirited remonstrance
of St. Simon.... The great pavilion itself only contained, as we have seen, a very small number
of chambers. The querulous Smollett, who visited Marly in 1763, speaks of it as "No more than
a pigeon-house in respect to a palace." But it was only intended as the residence of the king.

During the repairs necessary in the reign of Louis XV., who built Choisy and never lived at
Marly, the cascade which fell behind the great pavilion was removed. Mme. Campan describes
the later Marly of Louis XVI., under whom the "Marly journey" had become one of the great burdens
and expenses of royal life. The Court of Louis XVI. was here for the last time on June 11,
1789, but in the latter years of Louis XVI., M. de Noailles, governor of St. Germain, was permitted
to lend the smaller pavilions furnished to his friends for the summer months. Marly perished
with the monarchy, and was sold at the Revolution, when the statues of its gardens were removed
to the Tuileries. A cotton mill was for a time established in the royal pavilion; then all
the buildings were pulled down and the gardens sold in lots!

Still the site is worth visiting. The Grille Royale, now a simple wooden gate between two pillars
with vases, opens on the road from St. Germain to Versailles, at the extremity of the Aqueduct
of Marly. Passing this, one finds oneself in an immense circular enclosure, the walls of which
surround the forest on every side. It is pleasant to interchange the din of the city, the movement
of the crowd, and the gossip of society, with the silence of the hamlet, the quiet seclusion
of the grove, and the gossip of a woodland brook.

It was a feeling of this kind that prompted me, during my residence in the North of France,
to pass one of the summer months at Auteuil, the pleasantest of the many little villages that
lie in the immediate vicinity of the metropolis. It is situated on the outskirts of the Bois
de Boulogne, a wood of some extent, in whose green alleys the dusty city enjoys the luxury
of an evening drive, and gentlemen meet in the morning to give each other satisfaction in the
usual way. A cross-road, skirted with green hedge-rows, and overshadowed by tall poplars, leads
you from the noisy highway of St. Cloud and Versailles to the still retirement of this suburban
hamlet. On either side the eye discovers old chateaux amid the trees, and green parks, whose
pleasant shades recall a thousand images of La Fontaine, Racine, and Moliere; and on an eminence,
overlooking the windings of the Seine, and giving a beautiful tho distant view of the domes
and gardens of Paris, rises the village of Passy, long the residence of our countrymen Franklin
and Count Rumford....

It was to the Bois de Boulogne that I looked for my principal recreation. There I took my solitary
walk, morning and evening; or, mounted on a little mouse-colored donkey, paced demurely along
the woodland pathway. I had a favorite seat beneath the shadow of a venerable oak, one of the
few hoary patriarchs of the wood which had survived the bivouacs of the allied armies. It stood
upon the brink of a little glassy pool, whose tranquil bosom was the image of a quiet and secluded
life, and stretched its parental arms over a rustic bench, that had been constructed beneath
it for the accommodation of the foot-traveler, or, perchance, some idle dreamer like myself.
It seemed to look round with a lordly air upon its old hereditary domain, whose stillness was
no longer broken by the tap of the martial drum, nor the discordant clang of arms; and, as
the breeze whispered among its branches, it seemed to be holding friendly colloquies with a
few of its venerable contemporaries, who stooped from the opposite bank of the pool, nodding
gravely now and then, and gazing at themselves with a sigh in the mirror below....

I entered, too, with some enthusiasm, into all the rural sports and merrimakes of the village.
The holidays were so many little eras of mirth and good feeling; for the French have that happy
and sunshine temperament --that merry-go-mad character--which renders all their social meetings
scenes of enjoyment and hilarity. I made it a point never to miss any of the fetes champetres,
or rural dances, at the wood of Boulogne; tho I confess it sometimes gave me a momentary uneasiness
to see my rustic throne beneath the oak usurped by a noisy group of girls, the silence and
decorum of my imaginary realm broken by music and laughter, and, in a word, my whole kingdom
turned topsy-turvy with romping, fiddling, and dancing. But I am naturally, and from principle,
too, a lover of all those innocent amusements which cheer the laborer's toil, and, as it were,
put their shoulders to the wheel of life, and help the poor man along with his load of cares.
Hence I saw with no small delight the rustic swain astride the wooden horse of the carrousel,
and the village maiden whirling round and round in its dizzy car; or took my stand on the rising
ground that overlooked the dance, an idle spectator in a busy throng. It was just where the
village touched the outward border of the wood. There a little area had been leveled beneath
the trees, surrounded by a painted rail, with a row of benches inside. The music was placed
in a slight balcony, built around the trunk of a large tree in the center; and the lamps, hanging
from the branches above, gave a gay, fantastic, and fairy look to the scene.

Nor must I forget to mention the fete patronale--a kind of annual fair, which is held at midsummer,
in honor of the patron saint of Auteuil. Then the principal street of the village is filled
with booths of every description; strolling players, and rope-dancers, and jugglers, and giants,
and dwarfs, and wild beasts, and all kinds of wonderful shows, excite the gaping curiosity
of the throng; and in dust, crowds, and confusion, the village rivals the capital itself. Then
the goodly dames of Passy descend into the village of Auteuil; then the brewers of Billancourt
and the tanners of Sevres dance lustily under the greenwood tree; and then, too, the sturdy
fishmongers of Bretigny and Saint-Yon regale their fat wives with an airing in a swing, and
their customers with eels and crawfish....

I found another source of amusement in observing the various personages that daily passed and
repassed beneath my window. The character which most of all arrested my attention was a poor
blind fiddler, whom I first saw chanting a doleful ballad at the door of a small tavern near
the gate of the village. He wore a brown coat, out at elbows, the fragment of a velvet waistcoat,
and a pair of tight nankeens, so short as hardly to reach below his calves. A little foraging
cap, that had long since seen its best days, set off an open, good-humored countenance, bronzed
by sun and wind. He was led about by a brisk, middle-aged woman, in straw hat and wooden shoes;
and a little barefooted boy, with clear, blue eyes and flaxen hair, held a tattered hat in
his hand, in which he collected eleemosynary sous. The old fellow had a favorite song, which
he used to sing with great glee to a merry, joyous air, the burden of which ran "Chantons l'amour
et le plaisir!" I often thought it would have been a good lesson for the crabbed and discontented
rich man to have heard this remnant of humanity--poor, blind, and in rags, and dependent upon
casual charity for his daily bread, singing in so cheerful a voice the charms of existence,
and, as it were, fiddling life away to a merry tune.

I was one morning called to my window by the sound of rustic music. I looked out and beheld
a procession of villagers advancing along the road, attired in gay dresses, and marching merrily
on in the direction of the church. I soon perceived that it was a marriage-festival. The procession
was led by a long orang-outang of a man, in a straw hat and white dimity bobcoat, playing on
an asthmatic clarionet, from which he contrived to blow unearthly sounds, ever and anon squeaking
off at right angles from his tune, and winding up with a grand flourish on the guttural notes.
Behind him, led by his little boy, came the blind fiddler, his honest features glowing with
all the hilarity of a rustic bridal, and, as he stumbled along, sawing away upon his fiddle
till he made all crack again. Then came the happy bridegroom, drest in his Sunday suit of blue,
with a large nosegay in his button-hole; and close beside him his blushing bride, with downcast
eyes, clad in a white robe and slippers, and wearing a wreath of white roses in her hair. The
friends and relatives brought up the procession; and a troop of village urchins came shouting
along in the rear, scrambling among themselves for the largess of sous and sugar-plums that
now and then issued in large handfuls from the pockets of a lean man in black, who seemed to
officiate as master of ceremonies on the occasion. I gazed on the procession till it was out
of sight; and when the last wheeze of the clarionet died upon my ear, I could not help thinking
how happy were they who were thus to dwell together in the peaceful bosom of their native village,
far from the gilded misery and the pestilential vices of the town.

On the evening of the same day, I was sitting by the window, enjoying the freshness of the
air and the beauty and stillness of the hour, when I heard the distant and solemn hymn of the
Catholic burial-service, at first so faint and indistinct that it seemed an illusion. It rose
mournfully on the hush of evening--died gradually away--then ceased. Then, it rose again, nearer
and more distinct, and soon after a funeral procession appeared, and passed directly beneath
my window. It was led by a priest, bearing the banner of the church, and followed by two boys,
holding long flambeaux in their hands. Next came a double file of priests in their surplices,
with a missal in one hand and a lighted wax taper in the other, chanting the funeral dirge
at intervals--now pausing, and then again taking up the mournful burden of their lamentation,
accompanied by others, who played upon a rude kind of bassoon, with a dismal and wailing sound.
Then followed various symbols of the church, and the bier borne on the shoulders of four men.
The coffin was covered with a velvet pall, and a chaplet of white flowers lay upon it, indicating
that the deceased was unmarried. A few of the villagers came behind, clad in mourning robes,
and bearing lighted tapers. The procession passed slowly along the same street that in the
morning had been thronged by the gay bridal company. A melancholy train of thought forced itself
home upon my mind. The joys and sorrows of this world are so strikingly mingled! Our mirth
and grief are brought so mournfully in contact! We laugh while others weep--and others rejoice
when we are sad! The light heart and the heavy walk side by side and go about together! Beneath
the same roof are spread the wedding-feast and the funeral-pall! The bridal-song mingles with
the burial-hymn! One goes to the marriage-bed, another to the grave; and all is mutable, uncertain,
and transitory.

It is with sensations of pure delight that I recur to the brief period of my existence which
was passed in the peaceful shades of Auteuil. There is one kind of wisdom which we learn from
the world, and another kind which can be acquired in solitude only. In cities we study those
around us; but in the retirement of the country we learn to know ourselves.

The Two Trianons

By Augustus J. C. Hare

[Footnote: From "Days Near Paris."]

The Trianons may be reached in half an hour from the railway station, but the distance is considerable,
and a carriage very desirable, considering all the walking inside of the palaces to be accomplished.
Carriages take the straight avenue from Bassin de Neptune. The pleasantest way for foot- passengers
is to follow the gardens of Versailles as far as the Bassin d'Apollon, and then turn to the
right. At the end of the right branch of the grand canal, staircases lead to the park of the
Grand Trianon; but these staircases are railed in, and it is necessary to make a detour to
the Grille de la Grande Entree, whence an avenue leads directly to the Grand Trianon, while
the Petit Trianon lies immediately to the right, behind the buildings of the Concierge and
Corps de Garde.

The original palace of the Grand Trianon was a little chateau built by Louis XIV., in 1670,
as a refuge from the fatigues of the Court, on land bought from the monks of St. Genevieve,
and belonging to the parish of Trianon. But in 1687 the humble chateau was pulled down, and
the present palace erected by Mansart in its place.

Louis XIV. constantly visited the Grand Trianon, with which for many years he was much delighted.
But, after 1700, he never slept at Trianon, and, weary of his plaything here, turned all his
attention to Marly. Under Louis XV., however, the palace was again frequently inhabited.

Being entirely on one floor, the Grand Trianon continued to be a most uncomfortable residence,
till subterranean passages for service were added under Louis Philippe, who made great use
of the palace. The buildings are without character or distinction. Visitors have to wait in
the vestibule till a large party is formed, and are then hurried full speed round the rooms,
without being allowed to linger for an instant.

The Petit Trianon was built by Gabriel for Louis XV. in the botanical garden which Louis XIV.
had formed at the instigation of the Duc d'Ayen. It was intended as a miniature of the Grand
Trianon, as that palace had been a miniature of Versailles. The palace was often used by Louis
XV., who was here first attacked by the smallpox, of which he died. Louis XVI. gave it to Marie
Antoinette, who made its gardens, and whose happiest days were spent here.

The Petit Trianon is a very small and very unassuming country house. Mme. de Maintenon describes
it in June as "a palace enchanted and perfumed." Its pretty simple rooms are only interesting
from their associations. The furniture is mostly of the times of Louis XVI. The stone stair
has a handsome iron balustrade; the salons are paneled in white.

Here Marie Antoinette st to Mme. Lebrun for the picture in which she is represented with her
children. In the dining-room is a secretaire given to Louis XVI. by the States of Burgundy,
and portraits of the King and Marie Antoinette. The Cabinet de Travail of the queen was a cabinet
given to her on her marriage by the town of Paris; in the Salle de Reception are four pictures
by Watteau; the Boudoir has a Sevres bust of the queen; in the Chambre-a-coucher is the queen's
bed, and a portrait of the Dauphin by Lebrun. These simple rooms are a standing defense of
the queen from the false accusations brought against her at the Revolution as to her extravagance
in the furnishing of the Petit Trianon. Speaking of her happy domestic life, Mme. Lebrun says:
"I do not believe Queen Marie Antoinette ever allowed an occasion to pass by without saying
an agreeable thing to those who had the honor of being near her."

Malmaison

By Augustus J. C. Hare

[Footnote: From "Days Near Paris."]

The station is opposite a short avenue, at the end of which on the right, is the principal
entrance to Malmaison. A little higher up the road at the right is a gate leading to the park
and gardens, freely open to the public, and being sold (1887) in lots by the Stat. There is
a melancholy charm in the old house of many recollections--grim, empty, and desolate; approached
on this side by a bridge over the dry moat. A short distance off, rather to the left, as you
look from the house, is a very pretty little temple--the Temple of Love--with a front of columns
of red Givet marble brought from the chateau of Richelieu, and a clear stream bursting from
the rocks beneath it.

Malmaison is supposed to derive its name from having been inhabited in the XI century by the
Norman brigand Odon, and afterward by evil spirits, exorcised by the monks of St. Denis. Josephine
bought the villa with its gardens, which had been much praised by Delille, from M. Lecouteulx
de Canteleu for 160,000 francs.... Josephine retired to Malmaison at the time of her divorce,
and seldom left it afterward.... In 1814, the unhappy Josephine, whose heart was always with
Napoleon, was forced to receive a visit from the allied sovereigns at Malmaison, and died of
a chill which she caught in doing the honors of her grounds to the Emperor Alexander on May
26, by a water excursion on the pool of Cucufa. After his return from Elba, Napoleon revisited
the place....

After the loss of the battle of Waterloo, Napoleon once more retired to Malmaison, then the
property of the children of Josephine, Eugene and Hortense. There he passed June 25, 1815,
a day of terrible agitation. That evening at five o'clock he put on a brown suit of civilian
clothes, tenderly embraced Queen Hortense and the other persons present, gave a long lingering
look at the house and gardens connected with his happiest hours, and left them for ever.

After the second Restoration Prince Eugene sold Malmaison, removing its gallery of pictures
to Munich. There is now nothing remarkable in the desolate rooms, tho the Salle des Marechaux,
the bedroom of Josephine, and the grand salon, with a chimney-piece given by the Pope are pointed
out. In later years the house was for some time inhabited by Queen Christina of Spain. It will
be a source of European regret if at least the building connected with so many historic souvenirs,
and the immediate grounds are not preserved.

St. Germain

By Leitch Ritchie

[Footnote: From "The Rivers of France." Pictures by J. M. W. Turner, R.A. Text by Leitch Ritchie.]

The view from the terrace of Saint Germain is one of the finest in France. This view, and a
shady walk in the forest behind, are the only attractions of Saint Germain; for the old palace
of the kings of France presents the appearance of nothing more than a huge, irregular, unsightly
brick building. It is true, a great portion of the walls is of cut stone; but this is the idea
which the whole conveys to the spectator. The edifice stands on the site of a chateau built
by Louis-le-Gros, which, having been burned down by the English, was thus raised anew from
its ruins. Charles V., Francois II., Henry IV., Louis XIII., and Louis XIV., all exercised
their taste upon it, and all added to its general deformity.

Near this Henri Quatre built another chateau, which fell into ruins forty or fifty years ago.
These ruins were altogether effaced by Charles X., who had formed the project of raising another
structure upon the spot, entirely his own. The project, however, failed, like that of the coup
d'etat, but this is of no consequence. The new chateau exists in various books of travel, written
by eye-witnesses, quite as palpably as the enormous bulk of the ancient chateau. It is a true
"castle in Spain." Among the sights to be seen in the palace is the chamber of Mademoiselle
de la Valliere, and the trap-door by which she was visited by Louis Quatorze. There are also
the chamber and oratory of our James II., who died at Saint Germain, on the 16th September, 1701.

The forest of Saint Germain is seven leagues in circumference, pierced in every direction by
roads and paths, and containing various edifices that were used as hunting-lodges. This vast
wood affords no view, except along the seemingly interminable path in which the spectator stands,
the vista of which, carried on with mathematical regularity, terminates in a point. This is
the case with all the great forests of France except that of Fontainebleau, where nature is
sometimes seen in her most picturesque form. In the more remote and unfrequented parts of Saint
Germain, the wild boar still makes his savage lair; and still the loiterer, in these lengthened
alleys, is startled by a roebuck or a deer springing across the path....

Independently of the noble satellites attached to the court, the infinite number of official
persons made its removal to Saint Germain, or the other royal seats, seem like the emigration
of a whole people. Forty-nine physicians, thirty-eight surgeons, six apothecaries, thirteen
preachers, one hundred and forty maitres d'hotel, ninety ladies of honor to the queen, in the
sixteenth century! There were also an usher of the kitchen, a courier de vin (who took the
charge of carrying provisions for the king when he went to the chase), a sutler of court, a
conductor of the sumpter- horse, a lackey of the chariot, a captain of the mules, an overseer
of roasts, a chair-bearer, a palmer (to provide ananches for Easter), a valet of the firewood,
a paillassier of the Scotch guard, a yeoman of the mouth, and a hundred more for whose offices
we have no names in English.

The grand maitre d'hotel was the chief officer of the court. The royal orders came through
him; he regulated the expenses; and was, in short, to the rest of the functionaries, what the
general is to the army. The maitre des requetes was at the head of civil justice; the prevot
de l'hotel at the head of criminal justice....

When the courtiers presented themselves at the chateau, some in chariots, some on horseback,
with their wives mounted behind them (the ladies all masked), they were subjected to the scrutiny
of the captain of the gate. The greater number he compelled to dismount; but the princes and
princesses, and a select few who had brevets of entrance, were permitted to ride within the walls.

At court the men wore sword and dagger; but to be found with a gun or pistol in the palace,
or even in the town, subjected them to a sentence of death. To wear a casque or cuirass was
punished with imprisonment. The laws of politeness were equally strict. If one man used insulting
words to another, the offense was construed as being given to the king; and the offender was
obliged to solicit pardon of his majesty. If one threatened another by clapping his hand to
the hilt of his sword, he was to be assomme according to the ordinance; which may either mean
knocked down, or soundly mauled--or the two together. If two men came to blows, they were both
assomme. A still more serious breach of politeness, however, was the importunity of petitioners.

When the king hunted he was accompanied by a hundred pages, two hundred esquires, and often
four or five hundred gentlemen; sometimes by the queen and princesses, with their hundreds
of ladies and maids of honor, mounted on palfreys saddled with black velvet.

St. Cloud

By Augustus J. C. Hare

[Footnote: From "Days Near Paris."]

Very near the station is the Chateau de St. Cloud, set on fire by the bombs of Mont-Valerien,
in the night of October 13, 1870, and now the most melancholy of ruins. Sufficient, however,
remains to indicate the noble character of a building partly due to Jules Hardouin and Mansart.
The chateau is more reddened than blackened by the fire, and the beautiful reliefs of its gables,
its statues, and the wrought-iron grilles of its balconies are still perfect. Grass, and even
trees, grow in its roofless halls, in one of which the marble pillars and sculptured decorations
are seen through the gaps where windows once were. The view from the terrace is most beautiful.

The name of St. Cloud comes from a royal saint, who was buried in the collegiate church, pulled
down by Marie Antoinette (which stood opposite the modern church), and to whose shrine there
is an annual pilgrimage. Clodomir, King of Orleans, son of Clovis, dying in 524, had bequeathed
his three sons to the guardianship of his mother Clotilde. Their barbarous uncles, Childebert
and Clotaire, coveting their heritage, sent their mother a sword and a pair of scissors, asking
her whether she would prefer that they should perish by the one, or that their royal locks
should be shorn with the other, and that they should be shut up in a convent.

"I would rather see them dead than shaven," replied Clotilde proudly. Two of the princes were
then murdered by their uncles, the third, Clodowald, was hidden by some faithful servants,
but fright made him cut off his hair with his own hands, and he entered a monastery at a village
then called Nogent, but which derived from him the name of St. Clodowald, corrupted into St. Cloud.

Clodowald bequeathed the lands of St. Cloud to the bishops of Paris, who had a summer palace
here, in which the body of Francois I. lay in state after his death at Rambouillet. His son,
Henri II., built a villa here in the Italian style; and Henri III. came to live here in a villa
belonging to the Gondi family, while, with the King of Navarre, he was besieging Paris in 1589.
The city was never taken, for at St. Cloud Henri was murdered by Jacques Clement, a monk of
the Jacobin convent in Paris, who fancied that an angel had urged him to the deed in a vision....

From this time the house of the banker Jerome Gondi, one of the Italian adventurers who had
followed the fortunes of Catherine de Medici, was an habitual residence of the Court. It became
the property of Hervard, Controller of Finances, from whom Louis XIV. bought it for his brother
Philippe d'Orleans, enlarged the palace, and employed Lenotre to lay out the park. Monsieur
married the beautiful Henriette d'Angleterre, youngest daughter of Charles I., who died here,
June 30, 1670, with strong suspicion of poison. St. Simon affirms the person employed to have
confest to Louis XIV., having used it at the instigation of the Chevalier de Lorraine (a favorite
of Monsieur), whom Madame had caused to be exiled. One of the finest sermons of Bossuet describes
the "disastrous night on which there came as a clap of thunder the astonishing news! 'Madame
is dying! Madame is dead!' At the sound of so strange a wo people hurried to St. Cloud from
all sides to find panic over all except the heart of the princess."

In the following year Monsieur was married again, to the Princess Palatine, when it was believed
that his late wife appeared near a fountain in the park, where a servant, sent to fetch water,
died of terror. The vision turned out to be a reality--a hideous old woman, who amused herself
in this way. "The cowards," she said, "made such grimaces that I nearly died laughing. This
evening pleasure paid me for the toil of my hard day."

Monsieur gave magnificent fetes to the Court at St. Cloud, added to the palace with great splendor,
and caused the great cascade, which Jerome Gondi had made, to be enlarged and embellished by
Mansart. It was at St. Cloud that Monsieur died of an attack of apoplexy, brought on by overeating
after his return from a visit to the king at Marly.... The chateau continued to be occupied
by Madame, daughter of the Elector, the rude, the original, and satirical Princess Palatine,
in whom the modern House of Orleans has its origin, and here she died during the regency of
her son....

The Regent d'Orleans, nephew of Louis XIV., received Peter the Great at St. Cloud in 1717.
In 1752 his grandson, Louis Philippe d'Orleans, gave at St. Cloud one of the most magnificent
fetes ever seen in France.

In 1785 the Due d'Orleans sold St. Cloud for six million francs to Queen Marie Antoinette,
who made great alterations in the internal arrangements of the building, where she resided
during the early days of the Revolution.

It was at St. Cloud that the coup d'etat occurred which made Napoleon first-consul. This led
him to choose the palace of St. Cloud, which had been the cradle of his power, as his principal
residence, and, under the first empire, it was customary to speak of "le cabinet de Saint-Cloud,"
as previously of "le cabinet de Versailles," and afterward of "le cabinet des Tuileries." Here,
in 1805, Napoleon and Josephine assisted at the baptism of the future Napoleon III....

It was also in the palace of St. Cloud that Napoleon I. was married to Marie Louise, April
1, 1810. In this palace of many changes the allied sovereigns met after the fall of the First
Empire. Blucher, after his fashion, slept booted and spurred in the bed of Napoleon; and the
capitulation of Paris was signed here July 3, 1815.

Louis XVIII. and Charles X. both lived much at St. Cloud, and added to it considerably; but
here, where Henry IV. had been recognized as King of France and Navarre, Charles X. was forced
by the will of the people to abdicate, July 30, 1830. Two years after, Louis Philippe established
himself with his family at St. Cloud, and his daughter Clementine was married to Duke Augustus
of Saxe-Coburg in its chapel, April 28, 1843. Like his uncle, Napoleon III. was devoted to
St. Cloud, where--"with a light heart"--the declaration of war with Prussia was signed in the
library, July, 17, 1870, a ceremony followed by a banquet, during which the "Marseillaise"
was played. The doom of St. Cloud was then sealed. On the 13th of the following October the
besieged Parisians beheld the volumes of flame rising behind the Bois de Boulogne, which told
that St. Cloud, recently occupied by the Prussians, and frequently bombarded in consequence
from Mont-Valerien, had been fired by French bombs.

The steamer for St. Cloud descends the Seine, passing under the Pont de Solferino, Pont de
la Concorde, Pont des Invalides, and Pont d'Alma. Then the Champ de Mars is seen on the left,
the Palais du Trocadero on the right. After the Pont du d'Iena, Passy is passed on the right,
and the Ile des Cygnes on the left. Then comes the Pont de Grenelle, after which Auteuil is
passed on the right and Javel on the left. After leaving the Pont-viaduc du Point-du-Jour,
the Ile de Billancourt is seen on the left. After the Pont de Billancourt, the steamer passes
between the Iles de Billancourt and Seguin to Bas Meudon.

The Building of the Great Palace

By Thomas Oakey

[Footnote: From "The Story of Avignon." Published by E.P. Dutton & Co.]

It will now be convenient briefly to trace the growth of that remarkable edifice, at once a
castle and a cloister, a palace and a prison, which constitutes the chief attraction of Avignon
to-day, and which, altho defaced by time and by modern restorers, remains in its massive grandeur
a fitting memorial of the great line of pontiffs who have made that little city famous in the
annals of Christendom.

We have seen that Pope John XXII., having allotted a piece of land to his nephew, Arnaud de
Via, for the erection of a new episcopal palace, was content to modify and enlarge the old
one for pontifical uses, and that Benedict XII., with characteristic straightforwardness, purchased
the new fabric from Arnaud's heirs and, having handed it over to the diocesan authorities,
proceeded to transform the old building into a stately and spacious apostolic palace for the
head of Christendom.

He was moved to this purchase after mature reflection, for it was a matter of urgent importance
that the pontiff of the church of Rome should possess a palace of his own at Avignon as long
as it might be necessary for him to remain there. The relation between Curia and Episcopate
being thus clearly defined, Benedict appointed a compatriot, Pierre Poisson de Mirepoix, master
of the works, and, since about two-thirds of the existing palace dates from Benedict's reign,
Pierre Poisson may be regarded as its first architect.

More, probably, is known of the construction of the papal palace of Avignon than of any other
relic of medieval architecture. Thanks to the researches of Father Ehrle, Prefect of the Vatican
Library, and other scholars, the sums paid to the contractors, their names, the estimates of
quantities, the wages of the chief workmen, and the price of materials, are before us, and
we can trace day by day and month by month the progress of the great pile. The whole of the
craftsmen, with the exception of the later master painters from Italy and some northern sculptors,
were either Avignonais, Gascons or Provencals.

The first work undertaken by Pierre was the enlargement of the papal chapel of John XXII. This
was doubled in length, and the lavish decorations executed by John's master painter, Friar
Pierre Dupuy, were continued on the walls of the added portion; payments for white, green,
indigo, vermilion, carmine and other pigments, and for colored tiles, testify to the brilliancy
of its interior.

Meanwhile work was proceeding on the massy new tower, the Turris Magna, now known as the Tour
des Anges, the best preserved of all the old towers. The foundations were laid on April 3,
1335, and it was roofed with lead on March 18, 1337. The basement formed the papal wine-cellar;
the ground floor was the treasury, or strong room, where the specie, the jewels, the precious
vessels of gold and silver and other valuables were stored; many payments are recorded for
locks and bars and bolts for their safe-keeping within the ten-feet-thick walls of the tower.

The next great work put in hand was the east wing, which was raised on a space left by John's
demolished, or partially demolished, structure. On November 20, 1337, two masons (lapiscidarios),
Pierre Folcaud and Jean Chapelier, and a carpenter, Jacques Beyran, all of Avignon, contracted
to carry out the plans of a new architect, Bernard Canello, for the completion of Benedict's
private apartments, and on the same day Lambert Fabre and Martin Guinaud, housewreckers, were
paid eighty-three gold florins on account, for the demolition of the old buildings. This wing,
since wholly remodeled by the legates and the modern corps of engineers, comprised the papal
Garde Robe, the Garde Meuble, the private kitchen and offices and, on the floor above, the
papal dining-room, study and private oratory. The walls were, of course, embattlemented, and
in 1337 the most exposed portions of the new buildings were defended by a stout rampart....

The whole ground floor, 110 feet by 33, was occupied by a great reception hall (Camera Paramenti),
where distinguished visitors were accorded a first welcome before being admitted to a private
audience, or accorded a solemn state reception in consistory, as the import of their embassy
demanded. The popes were also used to receive the cardinals there, and two doorkeepers were
appointed who must be faithful, virtuous and honest men and sleep in the hall; their office
being one of great trust, was highly paid, and they were generally laymen. It was probably
in this hall that St. Catherine was received by Clement VI. The Avignon conclaves were held
there, for on December 31, 1352, four hundred and fifteen days' and nights' labor were employed
in breaking down the walls between the dining- hall and the Camera Paramenti, clearing away
the stones and making secret chambers for the lord cardinals, in which chambers were twenty-eight
cells....

On September 5, 1339, John's old belfry was pulled down and Jean Mauser de Carnot, who asserted
he had excavated 11,300 basketfuls of rubbish, was paid at the rate of twelve deniers the hundred
for the work. Evidently these were good times for the basket makers as well as builders. December
22, 1340, three contractors, Isnard and Raymond Durand and Jacques Gasquet, received 1,273
florins for the completed new tower, with its barbicans, battlements and machicoulis, which
was on the site and which retained the appellation of the Tour de la Campane, or Bell Tower.
The embattlemented and machicolated summit, but not the chastelet, of this mighty tower has
recently been restored; its walls are nearly twelve feet thick....

Benedict's last undertaking was the erection of the Tour de Trouillas, next the Tour des Latrines,
and on April 20, 1341, sixteen rubbish baskets were bought for the "Saracens that excavated
the foundations of the turris nova." The Tour de Trouillas, tallest and stoutest of the keeps
of the mighty fortress, is 175 feet high as compared with the 150 feet of the Tour de la Campane,
and its walls fifteen feet thick as compared with twelve feet. It should be noted, however,
that the latter tower appears the taller owing to the elevated ground whereon, it stands....

Having bought, by private agreement or by arbitration, all the houses adjacent to the palace
on the south side, Clement next proceeded to demolish them and on the site to raise the noblest
and most beautiful wing of the great palace. This edifice, known to contemporaries as the great
new palace, comprised a spacious Chapel and Hall of Justice; and in August 9, 1344, contracts
were made for cutting away and leveling the rock above the present Rue Peyrolerie, whereon,
by October 21, 1351, the masons had raised their beautiful building.

On that day, by order of our lord the pope, one hundred florins were handed over by the papal
chamber to Master John of Loubieres to distribute among the masters to celebrate the placing
of the keystone in the vaulting of the new chapel of the palace and the completion of the said
chapel. On All Saints' Day of that same year Clement recited (a month before his death) the
first solemn mass in his great new chapel and preached a most eloquent sermon, praising God
for the completion of his life's work. The lower hall, most famous of judicial chambers in
Christendom and final Court of Appeal in all questions of international and ecclesiastical
law, was later in opening.

Among the amenities of the old palace were the spacious and lovely gardens on the east, with
their clipt hedges, avenues of trees, flower-beds and covered and frescoed walls, all kept
fresh and green by channels of water. John maintained a menagerie of lions and other wild and
strange beasts; stately peacocks swept proudly along the green swards, for the inventory of
1369 specifies seventeen peacocks, some old and some young, whereof six were white.

     *    *    *    *    *

But we have as yet dealt chiefly with the external shell of this mass of architecture which,
tall and mighty, raises its once impregnable walls and towers against the sky. The beauty of
its interior remains briefly to be touched upon, for the fortress palace had, as Clement left
it, some analogy with the great Moorish palace of the Alhambra in that it stood outwardly grim
and strong, while within it was a shrine of exquisite and luxurious art.

The austere Benedict, who, his biographer tells us, left the walls of the consistory naked,
appears to have expended little on the pictorial decorations of the halls and chambers erected
during his pontificate; but with the elevation of the luxurious and art-loving Clement VI.,
a new spirit breathes over the fabric. The stern simplicity and noble strength of his predecessor's
work assume an internal vesture of richness and beauty; the walls glow with azure and gold;
a legion of Gallic sculptors and Italian painters lavish their art on the embellishment of
the palace....

Such, in brief outline, was the progress of the mighty fabric and its internal decoration which
the great popes of Avignon raised to be their dwelling-place, their fortress, and the ecclesiastical
center of Christendom. Tho shorn of all its pristine beauty and robbed of much of its symmetry,
it stands to-day in bulk and majesty, much as it stood at the end of Clement VI.'s reign, when
a contemporary writer describes it as a quadrangular edifice, enclosed within high walls and
towers and constructed in most noble style, and tho it was all most beautiful to look upon,
there were three parts of transcendent beauty: the Audientia, the Capella major, and the terraces:
and these were so admirably planned and contrived that peradventure no palace comparable to
it was to be found in the whole world. The terraces referred to were those raised over the
great chapel, and were formed of stone, bedded in asphalt and laid on a staging of stout oak
joists; the view from the terraces was unparalleled for range and beauty.

The glowing splendor of frescoed walls was enhanced by gorgeous hangings and tapestries and
by the magnificent robes and jewels of popes and cardinals. Crowds of goldsmiths--forty were
employed at the papal court-- embroiderers and silk mercers, made Avignon famous thoughout
Europe. In 1337, 318 florins were paid for eight Paris carpets; in 1343 Clement VI. paid 213
florins for green silk hangings, and 254 florins for carpets adorned with roses; in 1348, 400
gold and silver vessels turned the scales at 862 marks, 5 ounces; in the inventory of 1369,
despite the fact that the most precious had been sent to Rome, the gold vessels were weighed
out at 1,434 marks, 1 ounce; the silver at 5,525 marks 7 ounces.

A cardinal's hat cost from 15 to 40 florins, and in 1348, 150 florins were paid for one piece
of scarlet for the pope, and 75 to 100 florins for the garniture of a riding cloak. Clement
VI. spent 1,278 florins in the purchase of cloth of gold, woven by the Saracens of Damascus;
one payment to Jacopo Malabayla of Arti for summer and winter clothing for the papal household
amounted to 6,510 florins, and the same obviously Hebrew merchant received 10,652 florins in
1341 for cloth and ermine and beaver; in 1347 Clement's furrier received 1,080 ermine skins,
whereof 430 were used in one cloak, 310 for a mantle, 150 for two hoods, and 88 for nine birettas;
in 1351, 2,258 florins went to Tuscany for silk, and 385 for brocade to Venice.

The richness of the papal utensils beggars description; jeweled cups, flagons of gold, knife
handles of jasper and ivory, forks of mother-of- pearl and gold. A goldsmith in 1382 was paid
14 florins for repairing two of the last-named implements. The flabelli, or processional feather
fans, cost 14 florins; Benedict XIII., paid 300 florins for an enameled silver bit; the Golden
Roses cost from 100 to 300 florins. Presents of jewels were costly and frequent. Gregory XI.
gave 168 pearls, value 179 francs, to the citizens of Avellino; Clement VII. presented the
Duke of Burgundy with a ring of gold, worth 335 florins; an aguiere of gold and pearls, valued
at 1,000 florins, and two tables each over 200 florins. Richer gifts were lavished on sovereign
princes. Reliquaries were of prodigious value; the gold cross containing a piece of the true
cross at the Celestins weighed fifteen pounds. In 1375 a silver arm for the image of St. Andrew
cost over 2,566 florins.

The cardinals were equally munificent. The most striking example of lavish splendor is afforded
by the State banquet given to Clement V., by the Cardinals Arnaud de Palegrue and Pierre Taillefer
in May, 1308. Clement, as he descended from his litter, was received by his hosts and twenty
chaplains, who conducted him to a chamber hung with richest tapestries from floor to ceiling;
he trod on velvet carpet of triple pile; his state- bed was draped with fine crimson velvet,
lined with white ermine; the sheets of silk were embroidered with silver and gold.

The table was served by four papal knights and twelve squires, who each received silver girdles
and purses filled with gold from the hosts. Fifty cardinals' squires assisted them in serving
the banquet, which consisted of nine courses of three plates each--twenty-seven dishes in all.
The meats were built up in fantastic form: castles, gigantic stags, boars, horses, etc. After
the fourth service, the cardinal offered his holiness a milk-white steed worth 400 florins;
two gold rings, jeweled with an enormous sapphire and a no less enormous topaz; and a bowl,
worth 100 florins; sixteen cardinal guests and twenty prelates were given rings and jewels,
and twelve young clerks of the papal house and twenty-four sergeants-at-arms received purses
filled with florins.

After the fifth service, a great tower with a font whence gushed forth five sorts of choicest
wines was carried in; and a tourney was run during the interval between the seventh and eighth
courses. Then followed a concert of sweetest music, and dessert was furnished by two trees--one
of silver, bearing rarest fruits of all kinds, and the other loaded with sugared fruits of
many colors. Various wines were then served, whereupon the master cooks, with thirty assistants,
executed dances before the guests. Clement, by this time, having had enough, retired to his
chamber, where, lest he might faint for lack of refreshment during the night, wine and spices
were brought to him; the entertainment ended with dances and distractions of many kinds.

There is no reason to believe that the Avignon popes, either in their household expenditure
or in their personal luxury, were more extravagant than their Roman predecessors or successors.
Yet amid all this luxury, strange defects of comfort appear to the modern sense. Windows, as
we have seen, were generally covered with wax cloth or linen, carpets were rare, and rushes
were strewn on the floors of most of the rooms. From May to November, 1349, more than 300 loads
of rushes were supplied for use in the dining-rooms and chambers of the apostolic palace. Subsequently
mats were introduced, and in 1352 Pierre de Glotos, mat-maker to the palace of our lord and
pope, was paid for 275 cannae of matting for the palace of Avignon and for the palace beyond
the Rhone and the new chapel.

The Walls of Avignon

By Thomas Oakey

[Footnote: From "The Story of Avignon." Published by E.P. Dutton & Co.]

Intimately associated with the history of the palace of the Popes of Avignon is that of the
unparalleled circuit of walls and towers which defended the city from the scourge of organized
robber bands during the fourteenth century. The earliest quadrilateral fortifications embraced
a relatively small area consisting of the Rocher des Doms and the parishes of St. Agricol,
St. Didier, and St. Pierre; these walls, demolished and rebuilt on a more extensive scale in
the twelfth century, embraced an area easily traceable on the modern map, from the Porte du
Rhone, round the Rues du Limas, Joseph Vernet, des Lices, Philonarde, Campane, Trois Colombes,
to the Rocher.

It was these fortifications that the Cardinal St. Angelo forced the citizens to raze in 1227.
Until the acquisition of Avignon by Clement VI., the city was an open one and only defended
by a double fosse. The origin of the papal walls has already been traced, and their subsequent
fate may now be briefly given. The assaults of the Rhone proved more destructive than human
artillery. The walls and towers having been hastily raised, towers fell by reason of bad foundation,
and the upkeep of the fortifications was a continual drain on papal and communal finances.

In 1362 an irresistible flood of waters overthrew the Fortes St. Michel and Limbert, and large
breaches were often made by these recurring inundations. Moreover, the expansion of the city
of old and the need of access to the suburbs involved frequent displacement and opening of
new gates. In 1482 the whole system of the defensive works was modified to meet the new situation
caused by the introduction of gunpowder. The gates most exposed to attack were further defended
by outworks, that of St. Lazare having been fortified during the rule of Giuliano della Rovere
by the addition of a powerful bastide, with three round towers, a drawbridge, a new fosse which
communicated with the great fosse before the main walls. Other modifications took place during
the Huguenot wars.

Notwithstanding many repairs during the intervening centuries, the fortifications had, under
the second Empire, suffered sad degradation, and at length Viollet-le-Duc was entrusted with
their restoration. The famous architect set to work on their southern side and had completed
about one- third of the restoration when the disastrous issue of the Franco-Prussian war arrested
all further progress until the Third Republic feebly resumed the task. The walls along the
Rhone, especially useful in time of flood, were backed with stone, their battlements and machicoulis
renewed. The visitor, however, will need no reminder that the present passive aspect of the
ramparts conveys but a faint impression of their former state, when a broad and deep fosse,
seven feet by twelve, washed their bases, above which they raised their once impregnable curtains
full thirty feet.

Two of the old gates have been demolished--the Porte de Limbert in 1896, and the Porte de l'Oulle
in 1900--the former, many times repaired, was the only existing example of the external aspect
of a medieval gate, the latter had been rebuilt in 1786 in the Doric style. A new gate, the
Porte Petrarque, now the Porte de la Republique, was erected by Viollet-le-Duc when the walls
were pierced for the new street; the Porte St. Dominique is also new. These noble mural defenses,
three miles in circuit, twice narrowly escaped demolition--at the construction of the railway,
when they were saved by a vigorous protest of Prosper Merimee, and in 1902, when, on the pretext
that they blocked the development of the city, the municipality decided to demolish the unrestored
portions. Luckily the intervention of a public-spirited Prefect of Vaucluse proved successful,
and they were again rescued from the housewrecker's pick. No visitor to Avignon should omit
to walk or drive round the famous ramparts.

Their stones have been subjected to careful scrutiny by antiquarians and the masons' marks
(tacherons)--about 4,500--carefully examined and reduced to about four hundred and fifty types.
Opinions differ as to the meaning of these curious signs, but there is little doubt that M.
Maire's suggestion is the correct one--the workmen were paid by the piece, and each had his
own private mark which he cut on the stones he laid and thus enabled the foreman to check his work.

We begin at the Porte du Rhone, and skirt the older part of the walls on the northwest with
their different style of corbels and machicoulis. M. Maire has no hesitation in assigning this
portion to the time of Clement VI., by reason of the coarser nature of the masons' marks. Turning
southwards, we pass the Porte St. Dominique, and reach the Porte St. Roch (formerly the Porte
du Chamfleury, and only opened at plague times) and the Porte de la Republique. We soon note
the unrestored portions, the site of the old Porte Limbert, and turn northward to the Porte
St. Lazare.

Before we reach this gate we may fitly make a digression, and in pious memory of a great Englishman,
fare along the Avenue du Cimetiere to the grave of John Stuart Mill, who with his wife lies
buried within the cemetery under an elder-tree on the right and toward the end of Avenue 2.
A plain stone slab bears the well-known inscription to Mrs. Mill's memory --the noblest and
most eloquent epitaph ever composed by man for woman. It is pleasant to remember that Mill
has left golden opinions of his gentleness and generosity behind him at Avignon. His house,
a charming little hermitage approached by an avenue of plane trees not far from the cemetery,
was sold in 1905, and a few relics were bought and still are cherished by the rare friends
the somewhat self-centered philosopher made in the city. The present owner has preserved the
library and study, where the "Essay on Liberty" was written, much as it was in Mill's days.

To the peasants who met the tall, bent, spare figure, musing and botanizing along the country
lanes and fields, he was known as "Monsieur Emile." Before he left the city on his periodical
visits to England, Mill was wont to leave 300 francs with M. Rey, pastor of the Protestant
Church in Avignon: two hundred for expenses of public worship; one hundred for the poor, always
charging M. Rey to write to England if any further need arose.

Mill, a great Englishman of European fame, to the amazement of his French friends, was followed
to his last resting-place by no more than five mourners. As we write news comes that the civic
authorities have decided to recall to posterity the association of the great thinker with Avignon
by giving the name of Stuart Mill to a new boulevard, and that a bust has been unveiled to
his memory near the pleasant city he loved so well. Mill was much gratified that his pamphlet
on "The Subjection of Women" converted Mistral to the movement for their enfranchisement, and
their legal equality with men.

Villeneuve and the Broken Bridge

By Thomas Oakey

[Footnote: From "The Story of Avignon." Published by E.P. Dutton & Co.]

The royal city of Villeneuve, altho geographically and politically sundered from Avignon and
the County Venaissin, was socially and economically bound up with the papal city. The same
reason that to-day impels the rich citizens of Avignon to dot the hills of Languedoc with their
summer villas was operative in papal times, and popes and cardinals and prelates loved to build
their summer places on the opposite bank of the Rhone.

How silent and neglected are the streets of this once wealthy and important city! How degraded
its monuments, how faded its glory! In the hot, dusty afternoon, as the cranky old omnibus
rattles along the narrow High Street, it appears to awaken echoes in a city of the dead.

Making our way northward, we pass the restored seventeenth-century portal of the palace of
the sainted Cardinal of Luxembourg; the weather-worn, neglected, late Renaissance portal of
the so-called Hotel de Conti; the ruined Gothic portal of the palace of Cardinal Pierre de
Thury, through which we pass to the old court-yard and a chapel subsequently restored and now
used as the chapel of the Grey Penitents.

We pass many another relic of departed grandeur, and beyond the Place Neuve on our right come
upon a great portal which opens on a vaulted passage leading to one of the most bewildering
and extraordinary congeries of ruined monastic buildings in France, now inhabited by a population
of poor folk--two hundred families, it is said--who, since the Revolution, have settled in
the vast buildings of the once famous and opulent Charterhouse of Villeneuve. Founded by Innocent
VI., three years after his elevation to the papal chair, and enriched by subsequent endownments,
the Charterhouse of the Val de Benediction, the second in importance of the Order, grew in
wealth and importance during the centuries until it was sacked and sold in small lots during
the Revolution to the ancestors of the present occupants.

The circuit of its walls was a mile in extent; its artistic treasures were prodigious. The
Coronation of the Virgin came thence; the Pieta of Villeneuve, now in the Louvre; the founder's
tomb; the high altar of Notre Dame at Villeneuve, and a few other relics, alone survive of
its vast possessions. The scene resembles nothing so much as a city ruined by bombardment or
earthquake, but how long the wreck will remain in its present picturesque and melancholy condition
is difficult to forecast. The state is slowly buying out the owners, and doubtless ere many
years are passed the more valuable artistic remains will have been swept and garnished and
restored.

As we return from the Chartreuse we turn left along the Place Neuve, and climb to the mighty
fort of St. Andre, which occupies the most venerable site in the royal new city, for on the
hill where it stands tradition relates that St. Cesarie, Bishop of Arles, was buried, and that
there, in the sixth century, the first Benedictines settled. The primitive settlement, destroyed
in the ninth century, was extensively rebuilt in 980, and within its walls, churches were dedicated
to St. Andrew, St. Michael, and St. Martin. In the twelfth century the rich and powerful monastery,
a strongly fortified, self-sufficing community, was held under the counts of Toulouse, and
from their overlordship it was subsequently admitted by the counts to be within the territory
of the republic of Avignon, whose consuls in 1210 compelled the abbot to demolish his walls
and promise never to rebuild them.

In 1292 Philip the Fair was permitted to settle a small community there, to whom he accorded
in 1293 valuable privileges and the same protection he granted to his good city of Paris. Philip,
to whom the position was valuable as a frontier post, erected a castle there, maintained a
royal garrison, and the new settlement became known as the New Town (Villeneuve). The walls
and towers then raised were rebuilt in 1352 by John the Good, who exacted a toll, known as
St. Andrew's penny, for maintenance on all merchandise that passes through the Senechaussee
of Beaucaire.

Of these majestic ruins, restored in the sixteenth century and again in recent times, the Tour
des Masques at the west angle with its simple battlements is the oldest portion, the massive
machicolated towers that frown over the main entrance having been raised by John the Good.
The ruined ravelin dates back to the seventeenth century. We enter and stroll about the desolate
interior, crowned by a tiny Romanesque chapel of the twelfth century, that well deserves its
name of Our Lady of the Fair View (Notre Dame de Belvezet), with a graceful apse (restored).
From its summit, or from the tall old watch-tower of the monastery, a marvelous view is obtained
of the gaping ruins of the Charterhouse of Avignon, the County Venaissin, the Cevennes, Mount
Ventoux, and the distant Alps.

In the later years of the monarchy a post of artillery was stationed in the fort, and it was
from the fire of a battery planted there that a young captain of artillery, one Napoleon Bonaparte,
in 1793, overawed the city of Avignon, which was occupied by the Marseillais federalists who
had declared against the Convention; and it was with the cannon seized at St. Andre that Bonaparte
marched to Toulon and expelled the English from its harbor.

The papal soldiery were ever objects of scorn to the royalists of Villeneuve, who dubbed them
"patachines" ("pestacchina," Ital. for slipper), and taunted them with drilling under parasols--a
pleasantry repaid by the Italians who hurled the epithet "luzers" (lizards) against the royalists,
who were said to pass their time sunning themselves against the hot rocks of Villeneuve.

Descending the stately stairway that leads to the foot of the Rocher des Doms, and turning
to the left, we soon reach the house of the "gardien du pont," who will admit us to all that
remains of the miraculous pontifical structure of the twelfth century. The destructive hand
of man and the assaults of the Rhone have dealt hardly with St. Benezet's work. Ruined during
the siege of 1226, it was repaired in 1234-37, and in 1349 knit to the papal fortress at the
Avignon end. In 1352, when Clement VI. rebuilt four of the arches, it is described as of stone
and wood; it was cut during the siege of Benedict XIII., and repaired, or rebuilt, in 1418
and 1430; in 1602 three arches collapsed; in 1633 two more fell, and in 1650 the gaps were
bridged by wooden struts and planks, which were carried away in 1670 by ice-floes.

Owing to the interminable dispute between the monarchy and the papacy as to liability for its
repair, each power claiming jurisdiction over the Rhone, all attempts to preserve it from ruin
were abandoned in 1680, when Louis XIV. refused either to allow the legates to take toll for
the necesary repairs, or to undertake them himself.

Little is known of the original bridge, which consisted of twenty-two semi-circular arches
(Viollet-le-Duc gives eighteen), much lower than the present elliptic ones, which date back
to the thirteenth century, according to Labaude--or to the fifteenth century, acording to other
authorities--when the bridge, having proved too low-pitched, was raised to its present level,
and the flood arches over the piles were built. The four subsisting arches were, with the bridge
chapel, restored during the last century. The old bridge formed an elbow upstream on the Villeneuve
branch of the Rhone.

The chapel of St. Nicholas, too, has suffered many vicissitudes. The primitive Romanesque building
was raised to the level of the new footway by dividing the nave into two floors and building
a flight of steps, supported on a squinch arch, down to what then became the lower chapel.
Much battered during the sieges of the palace, it was restored and reconsecrated in 1411 and
a century later the Gothic upper apse was added, whose external walls overtop the old nave.
In consequence of these modifications the lower chapel has a Gothic nave and a Romanesque apse,
whereas the upper chapel has a Gothic apse and a Romanesque nave.

The "Pont d'Avignon" is known to every French-speaking child, and with many variants the old
"ronde" is sung and danced from the remotest plains of Canada to the valleys of the Swiss Alps.
The good folk of Avignon, however, protest that their "rondes" were not danced perilously on
the narrow Pont St. Benezet, but under its arches on the green meadows of the Isle de la Barthelasse,
and that "Sur" in lieu of "Sous" is due to northern misunderstanding of their sweet Provencal
tongue.

Orange

By Henry James

[Footnote: From "A Little Tour In France." The entrance of this resort might have been that
of a stable of the Roman days.

Vaucluse

By Bayard Taylor

[Footnote: From "Views Afoot."

The Pont du Gard--Aigues-Mortes-Nimes

By Henry James

[Footnote: From "A Little Tour in France." You may get back to Nimes for dinner; the run is
of about an hour. You take possession of it, and you feel that you will remember it always.

Arles and Les Baux

By Henry James

[Footnote: From "A Little Tour in France." I lost my way, and there was not a creature in the
streets to whom I could appeal.

The theater has a voice as well, but it lingers on the ear of time with a different music.

IV

Cathedrals and Chateaux

Amiens

By Nathaniel Hawthorne

[Footnote: From "French and Italian Note Books."

I think, for delicacy and richness of ornament, this window is perfectly unrivaled. Indeed,
I hardly know anything like it.

Chartres

By Epiphanius Wilson

[Footnote: From "The Cathedrals of France." By permission of the author. Copyright, 1900.]

For many a mile over the rich cornfields of Beauce, of which ancient district Chartres was
once the capital, the spires of Chartres are visible. The river and the hill constitute at
Chartres the basis of its strength in long-forgotten warfare; its walls in piping times of
peace have been leveled into leafy boulevards, but it may still be entered through one of the
antique gates that survive as memorials of its former fortifications.

The cathedral itself is one of that group to which belong Amiens, Rheims, Bourges and Notre
Dame de Paris. It is noted for its size, magnificence and completeness, and contains in itself,
from its crypt to its highest stone, an exemplification of architectural history in France
from the eleventh to the fourteenth centuries. We may suppose that Christianity was first published
in the Beauce province by the same apostles, Savinienus and Potentienius, who had evangelized
Sens and the Senones. Their disciple, Aventin (Aventinus), is recognized as the first Bishop
of Chartres, and as the builder of the first cathedral which stood on the site of the present
building....

The naves, the north and south transept portals, and the choir belong to the thirteenth century,
the north tower to the fifteenth, and the magnificent jube, or screen, which runs round the
choir, is evidently sixteenth century style, being an example of that Renaissance employment
of Gothic details, of which we find such glorious counterparts at Rouen and Albi. The western
facade of Chartres is plain in comparison with those of Amiens or Rheims. The voussures of
the three central portals are comparatively shallow. Above them are three lancet windows which
resemble windows of the Early English Style. The rose-window, beneath which the lancets are
placed, is of great dimensions and effective tracery. The highest story of the front between
the towers is screened by a rich arcade, over which rises the gable point.

This arcade, or gallery, is intended to break the abruptness with which the pointed roof rises
between the two spires. These spires are different in design, the southern tower being much
earlier than that at the north. The southern spire, in its austere simplicity and exquisite
proportions, is certainly the finest I have seen in France, and can only be paralleled elsewhere
by that which rises like a flower-bud almost ready to burst over Salisbury plain. The northern
tower is very much more elaborate, and reminded me of those examples with which the traveler
becomes so familiar in the many churches of Rouen. The richly crocketed gables, the flying
buttresses and pinnacles which run half way up this spire, while they adorn it, seem to stunt
the profile and rob it of its towering altitude, just as is the case with the western spires
of St. Ouen. Yet this northern tower is considerably higher than the ancient one at the south,
being 374 feet high, while the more ancient spire is only 348. The other dimensions of the
church are as follows: It is 420 feet long; 110 feet wide; its height from ceiling vault to
pavement is 115 feet. The modern tower was built by Louis XII. in 1514, the architect being
an inhabitant of Beauce, a certain Jean Texier.

The carvings in the west front of the cathedral are examples of the beginning of French sculpture,
as it emerges from the severity and rigidity of Byzantine types. The human figures are long,
slender, and swathed almost like mummies in their drapery. The faces are strongly individualized
and seem to be portraits. While these statues must be attributed to a period previous to the
middle of the twelfth century, we see in them the originality of French genius struggling to
break away from the fetters of Eastern precedent.

Viollet-de-Duc thinks that these faces belong to the type of the ancient Gaul; the flat forehead
and raised arch of the eyebrows, the projecting eyes, the long jaws, the peaked and drooping
nose, the long upper lip, the wide, closed mouth, the square chin, the long wavy hair are neither
German, Roman, or French. There is a blending of firmness, grandeur and refinement in these
wonderful countenances, each of them apparently copied from a different model. They are crowned
and nimbused as the kings and saints of antique France. A more impressive gallery of illustrious
personages is nowhere else to be found.

The origin of the Church at Rheims dates from the third century; when we are told Pope Fabian
sent into Gaul a band of bishops and teachers. Rheims was chosen as the seat of an episcopal
primacy, and it was in the church built by St. Nicaise, or Nicasius, in 401, that Clovis was
baptized and crowned in 496. This ancient building, doubtless of simple Roman proportions,
was rebuilt in the reign of Louis the Debonair in 822, when Ebon was archbishop.

It was completed with a magnificence which vied with the churches of Constantinople, Ravenna
and Rome. It was considered in its day the most splendid church in France. Its roof and walls
blazed with gilding and many-tinted paintings. Its floors were of marble mosaic. Rich tapestries
hung round the choir, and its treasury was filled with masterpieces of the goldsmith and the
jeweler. This church continued to be the wonder of Gallic Christianity until the beginning
of the thirteenth century, when it was destroyed by fire. It is remarkable to notice in the
history of French cathedrals how many of them were rebuilt just at the time when the pointed
style, which may be called preeminently the Christian style of architecture, had come to birth
almost simultaneously in various countries of Europe.

We are obliged to come to the conclusion that the pointed arch was introduced in Germany, France
and England by the Crusaders, who had seen it used in the East, and had considered it best
fitted for buildings that enshrined the sublime mysteries of the Christian faith. It was in
the pointed style, therefore, that the new cathedral of Rheims was built. The name of its architect
is not known, but his plan shows that he must have been a man of profound genius. Archbishop
Alberic Humbert laid the foundation stone in 1212. The whole province contributed liberally
to the work, and in 1242 the building was sufficiently advanced for the celebration of divine
service in the choir.

The Church of Notre Dame of Rheims would require a volume to describe it completely. The front
is perhaps the most elaborate to be found in France. The three vast portals, peopled with statues
of colossal size, their arched vaulting covered with saintly and angelic figures, the mighty
rose- windows, flanked with pointed openings, crowned with carved tabernacle work, and the
great gallery of kings crossing the whole front, just below the peak of the gable, and above
all, the two towers pierced by majestic windows and supported at each corner by niches with
three open faces, give an impression of richness and brightness and grace, mingled with that
indefinable majesty, which is due partly to the vast dimensions, partly to the harmonious proportions
of the whole structure.

The divisions of the front facade resemble somewhat the same part of the edifice at Amiens,
excepting that it is far more florid, and less strict and severe in its main divisions. At
Amiens the details are kept in strictest subservience to the structural lines of the edifice.
At Rheims it is the magnificent wealth of details that crowds upon the view, the walls and
arches are surcharged with statues, with niches, with brackets, pinnacles, tracery, foliage,
finials and turrets. The sides of the entrances of the three portals are crowded with colossal
statues, thirty- nine in number, representing patriarchs, prophets, kings, bishops, virgins
and martyrs. On the trumeau of the central gate is a fine statue of the Virgin Mary; on the
sides of this trumeau are bas-reliefs representing the Fall of Man, of whose restoration Mary
should be the instrument.

It is quite characteristic of a medieval church that we should find, on the lintels and side-posts
of these doorways, emblems of agricultural work in the various seasons of the year, as well
as different symbols of arts and handicrafts. Amid the carvings of these doorways are the heroes
and saints of the Old Testament, types and forerunners of the Messiah, as well as historic
scenes, representing the Redemption of the World, the Conversion of the Gentiles, the Resurrection
of the Dead, the Last Judgment, the Condemnation of the Wicked, the Reception of the Just into
the habitations of the blest. Finally, the Assumption and Coronation of the Blessed Virgin
sums up, with an imaginative legend, this series of Christian dogma perpetuated in stone.

But the medieval genius is many-sided, and never satisfied with that which is beautiful alone;
and this magnificent array of Christian carving would not be complete to the mind of the medieval
artist unless he had crowned the angles of his buildings with a series of grotesque gargoyles
and allegoric statues, representing the streams that watered the earthly paradise, while at
the summit of the roof are niched angles bearing instruments of music. As the rose is a peculiarity
of Gothic churches, and from its remarkable shape gives ample room for sculpture in stone,
and color in glass, so the rose at Rheims is among the most beautiful examples of the kind,
and illustrates the principle that the rose is intended to light up high, remote and shadowy
spaces in a long nave or aisle.

Above the great rose-window is a pointed arch in whose voussures are ten statues, relating
the history of David, while over this arch runs a band of niches, forty-two in number, in which
are colossal statues of the kings of France from Clovis to Charles VI.

The two portals of the transepts are richly decorated in harmony with the style of the western
facade. A graceful spire rises from the eastern part of the roof. It is called "The Angel's
spire," from the fact that poised upon its summit is an angel covered with gilt and holding
aloft a cross. This turret rises 59 feet above the roof of the church. The church itself is
486 feet in length, and from the vaulting of the roof to the pavement is 125 feet. The towers
are 272 feet high. I noticed the church is built in the form of a cross, but the transept is
very close to the apse, so that the choir being too confined for the great ceremonies, such
as that of royal coronations, which used to take place there, has been extended westward across
the transept so as to take up three bays of the nave.

There are seven chapels at the east of the church, but none are found in the naves. The plainness
of the nave, in comparison with the ornate character of the exterior, is very remarkable, but
this plainness detracts nothing from the impressiveness of its long arcades, its towering roof,
the noble lines which rise from the ground and support, as it were, on slender sinews of stone,
the shadowy ceiling. The rose-windows, four in number, are filled with glass of the thirteenth
century, and the tall windows of the chevet and clerestory contain a many colored mosaic of
a similar sort. I was particularly struck with the rose-window over the western portal. It
represents the Beautiful Vision; the Eternal Father is throned in the central ring of the window,
and in the radiating panes is the Hierarchy of Paradise, angels and archangels and all the
company of Heaven, while in a wider circumference are grouped the redeemed, contemplating in
adoration the majesty of God.

I noticed two very interesting tombs in Rheims cathedral. The first was the sarcophagus of
Jovinus, the Christian prefect of Rheims, in the fourth century, who protected the church and
was originally buried in the Abbey of St. Nicaise, from whence his tomb was brought to the
cathedral. It consists of a single block of snowy marble, nine feet long, and four feet high,
on which the consular general is represented in a spirited bas- relief mounted on horseback
and saving the life of a man from the lion, in whose flank Jovinus has launched his spear.
Very fine indeed is the workmanship of this monument. The figures which surround Jovinus are
men of handsome countenance, evidently portraits, their dress and arms being finished with
the utmost nicety of detail. The figures are about half life-size.

The other tomb is that of St. Remigius, a Renaissance work erected by Cardinal Delenoncourt
in 1533. It is sumptuous and gaudy rather than beautiful. Twelve statues, full life-size, represent
the twelve peers of France, six are the prelates of Rheims, Laon, Langres, Beauvais, Chalons,
and Noyon; the six lay peers are the dukes of Burgundy, Normandy and Aquitaine, and the counts
of Flanders, Champagne, and Toulouse. The white marble of these somewhat stagey figures is
beautifully worked and the effect is imposing.

The western wall of the interior is faced with niches, in which the statues seem to emerge
from a cloud of gloom. At one time tombs of the most magnificent sort crowded the aisles, enshrining
the relics of saints and bishops, but during the raging of the Terror the Revolutionists violated
these tombs, seizing their treasures, breaking down with ax and hammer their carvings. But,
after all, the church of Notre Dame of Rheims does not seem to have suffered very much loss
from the clearing away of these obstructions to the vista of her arcades, which now depend
for their solemn beauty upon the simplicity and dignity of their lines and proportions, the
effect of their windows, and the religious gloom which lingers in their lofty recesses.

