These plans were conceived by him in 1811, and in the following year, as he has told in his
"Autobiography," he submitted them to the Prince Regent, afterwards King George IV. By the
Prince they were referred to a Secret Committee, consisting of the Duke of York, as President,
Lord Keith, Lord Exmouth, and the two Congreves; who, on the details being set before them,
declared this method of attack to be infallible and irresistible. Lord Dundonald was pledged
to secrecy by the Prince Regent, and it was proposed to employ the device in the war still
proceeding with France. That proposal, however, was abandoned, and another, for a trial of
the plan under Sir Alexander Cochrane in North America, in 1814, was prevented by the Stock
Exchange trial. After that, the long peace enjoyed by England would have postponed the experiment,
even if Lord Dundonald had not been debarred from pursuit of his calling as an English naval
officer. He might have used his secret in Chili, Brazil, and Greece; but his promise to the
Prince Regent, and patriotic feelings, that were even more cogent than that promise, restrained
him. Once used, it would cease to be a secret; and he resolved that the great advantage that
would accrue from the first use should be reserved for his own country.

The project, however, was not forgotten by him. Soon after the accession of King William IV.,
he explained it to his Majesty, who acknowledged its value, and paid a tribute to Lord Dundonald's
honourable conduct in keeping his secret so long and under such strong inducements to an opposite
course. Soon afterwards, and during many years, the prospect of another war induced him to
engage in frequent correspondence on the subject with various members of the successive Governments.

"I long ago," wrote the Marquis of Lansdowne--then President of the Council--in May, 1834,
"communicated the substance of the paper you left with me, on the important objects which might
be accomplished by the agency you describe, in an attack upon an hostile marine, to such of
my colleagues as I then had an opportunity of seeing, and more particularly to Lord Minto,
whom I found in some degree apprized of your views upon this subject. As questions of such
importance to the naval interests of the country can only be satisfactorily inquired into by
the Admiralty Department of the Government, I should recommend your entering into an unreserved
communication with him on the subject, which I know he will receive with all the attention
due to your high professional character and experience."

The Earl of Minto gave many proofs of his regard for Lord Dundonald; but he was not disposed
to think favourably of the secret war-plan, and it was kept in abeyance for four years more.
In the autumn of 1838 Lord Dundonald again pressed its consideration upon Lord Lansdowne, alleging
as a reason the warlike attitude of Russia. "I am obliged to you for your letter," wrote Lord
Lansdowne in reply, on the 5th of November, "and will certainly make use of the communication
it contains in the proper quarter, if the occasion arises, which I sincerely hope it will not.
Ambitious and encroaching as Russia is seen and felt to be in all directions, I am confident
that her own true policy is to avoid giving just cause for war, and that, busily as she may
use all indirect means towards her ends which she thinks she can justify, she will yield to
remonstrance when these limits are transgressed by her agents. This is a course, however, which
requires to be, and I trust will be, most carefully watched."

In that interesting letter, Lord Lansdowne showed, by his silence, that he was not inclined
to investigate the war-plan; and a like indifference was experienced by Lord Dundonald in his
repeated efforts, during the ensuing years, to secure its acceptance by the Government. It
was submitted to a favoured few, and all to whom it was explained acknowledged its efficacy;
but no more than that was done. Its most competent critic was the Duke of Wellington, who recognised
the terrible power of the device, although he objected to it on the score that "two could play
at that game." "If the people of France shall force their Government to war with England,"
wrote Lord Dundonald to Lord Minto on the 3rd of August, 1840, "I hope you will do me the favour
and justice to reflect on the nature of the opinion you received from the Duke of Wellington
in regard to my plans, which is the same as that given to the Prince Regent by Lords Keith
and Exmouth and the two Congreves in the year 1811, and that your lordship will perceive, that
'although two can play at the game,' the one who first understands it can alone be successful.
In the event of war, I beg to offer my endeavours to place the navy of France under your control,
or at once effectually to annihilate it. Were my plans known to the world, I should not be
accused of over-rating their powers by the above otherwise extraordinary assertion." Lord Minto's
answer was very brief: "I shall bear your offer in mind; but there is not the slightest chance
of war."

For the same reason the secret plans were set aside by the Earl of Haddington, who was First
Lord of the Admiralty after Lord Minto. He rendered considerable aid to Lord Dundonald in testing
his steam-engine and boiler, but considered the fact that England was at peace as a sufficient
reason for not discussing the value of a new instrument of war.

Lord Dundonald, however, who knew the value of his invention, thought otherwise. While vast
sums of money were being spent at Dover, Portsmouth, and elsewhere upon fortifications and
harbours of refuge for trading-vessels, which, in war time, could have no chance of safety
against fighting steam ships in the open sea, he deemed it especially important that attention
should be paid to a project calculated to effect an entire revolution in the principles and
methods of warfare. If his project was feasible, it furnished an instrument by which fortifications
and harbours of refuge would be rendered useless, seeing that the most powerful enemy might
by it be effectually prevented from coming within reach of those defences, or, if he was allowed
to approach them, could use it with a terrible effect, to which the most formidable defences
could offer no resistance. It was under this impression that, on the 29th of November, 1845,
finding Governments indifferent to his arguments, he addressed a vigorous letter to "The Times."

"Had gunpowder and its adaptation to artillery," he there said, "been discovered and perfected
by an individual, and had its wonderful power been privately tested, indisputably proved, and
reported to a Government, or to a council of military men, at the period when the battering-ram
and cross-bow were chief implements in war, it is probable that the civilians would have treated
the author as a wild visionary, and that the professional council, true to the esprit de corps,
would have spurned the supposed insult to their superior understanding. Science and the arts,
both of peace and war, nevertheless, in despite of all such retarding causes, have advanced,
and probably will advance, until effects and consequences accrue which the imagination can
scarcely contemplate.

"It is not, however, my intention to intrude observations of an ordinary nature, but to endeavour
to rectify an erroneous opinion which appears to prevail, that consequences disastrous to this
country may be anticipated from the introduction of steam-ships into maritime warfare. I am
desirous of showing that the use of steam-ships of war, though at present available by rival
nations, need not necessarily diminish the security of our commerce; that still less need it
necessarily endanger our national existence, which appears to be apprehended by those who allege
the necessity of devoting millions of money to the defence of our coasts. I contend that there
is nothing in the expected new system of naval warfare, through the employment of steam-vessels,
that can justify such expensive and derogatory precautions, because there are equally new,
and yet secret, means of conquest, which no devices hitherto used in maritime warfare could
resist or evade.

"That the like prejudice or incredulity which in all probability would have scouted the invention
of gunpowder, if offered to notice under the circumstances above supposed, may exist to a considerable
extent in the present case, is extremely likely; yet I do not the less advisedly affirm, that
with this all-powerful auxiliary invasion may be rendered impossible, and our commerce secure,
by the speedy and effectual destruction of all assemblages of steam-ships, and, if necessary,
of all the navies of the whole world, which, for ever after, might be prevented from inconveniently
increasing. Away then with the sinister forebodings which have originated the recent devices
for protruding through the sterns of sluggish ships of war additional guns for defence in fight!
Away with the projected plans of 'protective forts and ports' of cowardly refuge! Let the manly
resolution be taken, when occasion shall require, vigorously to attack the enemy, instead of
preparing elaborate means of defence. Factitious ports on the margin of the Channel cannot
be better protected than those which exist, respecting which I pledge any professional credit
I may possess, that whatever hostile force might therein be assembled could be destroyed within
the first twenty-four hours favourable for effective operations, in defiance of forts and batteries,
mounted with the most powerful ordnance now in use.

"In the capacity of an officer all hope seemed to be precluded, that in time of peace I could
render service to my country. A new light, however, has beamed through the cloud, for in the
pursuit of my vocation as an amateur engineer it has become apparent that a plan, which I deemed
available only in war, may contribute to prevent the naval department from being paralysed
by wasteful perversion of its legitimate support. Protective harbours (save as screens from
wind and sea) may be likened to nets wherein fishes, seeking to escape, find themselves inextricably
entangled; or to the guardian care of a shepherd, who should pen his flock in a fold to secure
it from a marching army. No effective protection could be afforded in such ports against a
superior naval force equipped for purposes of destruction; whilst their utility as places of
refuge from steam privateers is quite disproportioned to their cost--privateers could neither
tow off merchant vessels from our shore, nor regain their own, if appropriate measures shall
be adopted to intercept them.

"Impressions in favour of so expensive, so despondent, and so inadequate a scheme, can have
no better origin than specious reports, emanating from delusive opinions derived from a very
limited knowledge of facts. The hasty adoption of such measures, and the voting away the vast
sums required to carry them into execution, are evils seriously to be deprecated. It is, therefore,
greatly to be desired that those in power should pause before proceeding further in such a
course. It behoves them to consider in all its bearings, and in all its consequences, the contemplated
system of stationary maritime defence, subject, as that system may become, to the overwhelming
influence of the secret plan which I placed in their hands, similar to that which I presented
in 1812 to His Royal Highness the Prince Regent, who referred its consideration confidentially
to Lord Keith, Lord Exmouth, and the two Congreves, professional and scientific men, by whom
it was pronounced to be infallible, under the circumstances detailed in my explanatory statement.

"Thirty-three years is a long time to retain an important secret, especially as I could have
used it with effect in defence of my character when cruelly assailed (as I have shown at length
in a representation to the Government), and could have practically employed it on various occasions
to my private advantage. I have now, however, determined to solicit its well-merited consideration,
in the hope, privately, if possible, to prove the comparative inexpedience of an expenditure
of some 12,000,000l. or 20,000,000l. sterling for the construction of forts and harbours, instead
of applying ample funds at once to remodel and renovate the navy--professionally known to be
susceptible of immense improvement--including the removal from its swollen bulk of much that
is cumbrous and prejudicial.

"However injudicious it might be thought to divulge my plan, at least until energetically put
in execution for an adequate object; yet, if its disclosure is indispensable to enable a just
and general estimate to be formed of the merits of the mongrel terraqueous scheme of defence
now in contemplation, as compared with the mighty power and protective ubiquity of the floating
bulwarks of Britain, I am satisfied that the balance would be greatly in favour of publicity.
It would demonstrate that there could be no security in those defences and those asylums, on
the construction of which it is proposed to expend so many millions of the public money; it
might, therefore, have the effect of preventing such useless expenditure, and of averting the
obviously impending danger of future parsimonious naval administration, abandonment of essential
measures of nautical improvement, and the national disgrace of maritime degradation--all inseparable
from an unnatural hermaphrodite union between a distinguished service, which might still further
be immeasurably exalted, and the most extravagant, derogatory, inefficient, and preposterous
project that could be devised for the security and protection of an insular, widely-extended,
colonial and commercial State."

A few months after that letter had been written, Lord Dundonald's hopes that his secret plans
would be accepted by the Government were revived. In 1846, his friend Lord Auckland took office
as First Lord of the Admiralty; and by him, with very little delay, it was proposed to submit
the plans to the judgment of a competent committee of officers. This was all that Lord Dundonald
had asked for, and he gladly accepted the proposal. The officers chosen were Sir Thomas Hastings,
then Surveyor General of the Ordnance, Sir J. F. Burgoyne, and Lieutenant-Colonel J. S. Colquhoun.
By them the project was carefully considered, and on the 16th of January, 1847, they tendered
their official report upon it. "These plans," it was there said, "may be classed under three
heads:--1st. One, on which an opinion may be formed with experiment, for concealing or masking
offensive warlike operations; and we consider that, under many particular circumstances, the
method of his lordship may be made available as well by land as by sea, and we therefore suggest
that a record of this part of Lord Dundonald's plans should be deposited with the Admiralty,
to be made use of when, in the judgment of their lordships, the opportunity for employing it
may occur. 2nd. One, on which experiments would be required before a satisfactory conclusion
could be arrived at. 3rd. Nos. 1 and 2 combined for the purpose of hostile operations. After
mature consideration, we have resolved that it is not desirable that any experiment should
be made. We assume it to be possible that the plan No. 2 contains power for producing the sweeping
destruction the inventor ascribes to it; but it is clear this power could not be retained exclusively
by this country, because its first employment would develop both its principle and application.
We considered, in the next place, how far the adoption of the proposed secret plans would accord
with the feelings and principles of civilized warfare. We are of unanimous opinion that plans
Nos. 2 and 3 would not be so. We therefore recommend that, as hitherto, plans Nos. 2 and 3
should remain concealed. We feel that great credit is due to Lord Dundonald for the right feeling
which prompted him not to disclose his secret plans, when serving in war as naval commander-in-chief
of the forces of other nations, and under many trying circumstances, in the conviction that
these plans might eventually be of the highest importance to his own country."

That report was, in the main, highly gratifying to Lord Dundonald. It recognized the efficacy
of his plans, and recommended their partial use, at any rate, in time of need. "Permit me to
express, as far as I am able," he wrote to Lord Auckland on the 27th of January, "my deep sense
of obligation to your lordship in causing my plans of war to be thoroughly investigated by
the most competent authorities, and for the extremely kind terms in which you have informed
me of the satisfactory result. With regard to their disposal, I submit that it would be advisable
to retain them inviolate until a period shall arrive when the use of them may be deemed beneficial
to the interests of the country, I have to observe, as to the opinions of the commission, that
plans Nos. 2 and 3 would not accord with the principles and feeling of civilized warfare, that
the new method resorted to by the French, of firing horizontal shells and carcases, is stated
by a commission of scientific and practical men appointed by the French Government to ascertain
their effects, to be so formidable that 'it would render impossible the success of any enterprise
attempted against their vessels in harbour,' and that, 'for the defence of roadsteads, or for
the attack of line-of-battle ships, becalmed or embayed, its effect would be infallible,'--namely,
by blowing up or burning our ships, to the probable destruction of the lives of all their crews.
I submit that, against such batteries as these, the adoption of my plans Nos. 2 and 3 would
be perfectly justifiable."

That the French, not yet forgetful of the injuries inflicted on them in the last great war,
and in the frequent wars of previous centuries, were still hoping and planning for an opportunity
of retaliation, and that their plans needed to be carefully watched and counteracted, were
convictions strongly impressed upon Lord Dundonald in these years; and in 1848 he had a singular
verification of them. "I enclose a paper of some consequence," wrote Lord Auckland to him on
the 30th of June. "It contains the plan which, in contemplation of war, has been submitted
to the French Provisional Government for naval operations. It is, perhaps, little more than
the pamphlet of the Prince de Joinville, carried out methodically and in detail, and the writer
seems to me to anticipate a far more exclusive playing of the game only on one side than we
should allow to be the case; but, nevertheless, such a mode of warfare would be embarrassing
and mischievous, and I should like to have from you your views of a counter project to it,
and your criticisms upon it."

The report here forwarded to Lord Dundonald by Lord Auckland, entitled "La Puissance Maritime
de la France," and designed to show that "une guerre maritime est plus à redouter pour l'Angleterre
que pour la France," besides affording curious confirmation of Lord Dundonald's opinions, is
a document very memorable in itself. Its main idea was that in naval warfare victory is to
be obtained, not by mere numbers, but by superiority in ships and guns. "In the present condition
of our marine," said its author, "we must give up fleet-fighting. The English can arm more
fleets than we can, and we cannot maintain a war of fleets with England without exposing ourselves
to losses as great as those we experienced under the First Empire. Though during twenty years,
however, our warfare, as carried on by fleets, was disastrous, that of our cruisers was nearly
always successful. By again sending these forth, with instructions not to compromise themselves
with an enemy superior to them in numbers, we shall inflict great loss on English commerce.
To attack that commerce is to attack the vital principle of England--to strike her to the heart."

That was the view advanced under Louis Philippe's reign by the Prince de Joinville; but it
was much more elaborately worked out by the advocate of naval energy in days immediately preceding
Prince Louis Napoleon's accession to power. "What I propose," he said, "is a war founded on
this principle of striking at English commerce. In a naval war between two nations, one of
which has a very large commerce, and the other very little, military forces are of small consequence.
In the end, peace must become a necessity to the power which has much to lose and little to
gain. Let us see what took place in America during the disputes on the Oregon question. Despite
the immense superiority of the English navy, the Americans maintained their pretensions. England
found out that their well-equipped frigates and countless privateers were sufficient to carry
on a war against her commerce in all parts of the globe; whilst all the damage she could do
to America was the destruction of a few coast-towns, by which she could gain neither honour
nor profit; and so she decided to preserve peace by yielding the question. It is this American
system that we in France must adopt. Renouncing the glory of fleet victories, we must make
active war on the commercial shipping of Great Britain. If America with her small means could
gain such an advantage over England, what results may we not expect to obtain with a hundred
and fifty ships of war and three hundred corsairs armed with long-range guns?"

The report recommended that the naval force of France should be organized in twenty "corsair-divisions."
These were to have Cherbourg for their head-quarters; one to look after the merchant-shipping
in the British Channel; another to watch the mouth of the Thames; and a third to cruise along
the Dutch and German coasts, so as to intercept our Baltic trade; and all these were to be
aided by a line of telegraphs from Brest to Dunkirk, in correspondence with a line of scouts
ranged along the French coast, with orders to communicate to the central station at Cherbourg
every movement of British merchantmen. Three similar divisions were to be formed at Brest,
charged respectively with the oversight of the East and West Indian shipping as it passed Cape
Clear, of the Azores, and of the Irish Coast. A seventh division, stationed at Rochefort, was
to watch for a favourable opportunity of co-operating with the other six, if desirable, in
transporting an army to Ireland. An eighth division was to watch the neighbourhood of Gibraltar,
and four others were to be stationed in various parts of the Mediterranean. Three other divisions
were to cruise along the North American coast, to harass our commerce with the United States,
to intercept the trade of Canada and the neighbouring colonies, and, in spring time, to capture
the produce of the Newfoundland fisheries. Three smaller divisions were to be charged with
the annoyance of our West Indian Islands and the destruction of their commerce; and the remaining
two were to scour the coasts of South America. A separate and formidable establishment of screw-frigates
was to have for its head-quarters a port of refuge to be constructed in Madagascar, whence
operations were to be directed in all quarters against our East Indian possessions and their
extensive trade.

"In addition to these means," it was further said in the report, "the Departmental Councils
should each arm one steam-frigate, commanded by an officer of the navy born in the department.
The prizes captured by each should in this case be at the disposal of the Departmental Councils,
a portion being devoted to defraying the expenses of the vessel, and the remainder applied
to the execution of public works within the department." "As regards the defence of French
ports, this may be best effected by flat-bottomed hulks, armed with long-range guns adapted
to horizontal firing. The chances against invasion are greatly in favour of France, on account
of the superiority of her land force, and the facility of transporting troops by railway to
the locality attacked." "A great point will be the perfect training of the French squadron
by annual evolutions, and with double or treble the requisite number of officers. If these
suggestions are carried out, France will establish at sea what Russia has done on land, to
the injury and restriction of British commerce, which must be seriously damaged, without material
harm being done to ourselves. This loss of commerce will especially affect the working classes
of England, and thus bring about a democratic inundation which will compel her to a speedy
submission."

Those were the chief proposals of the secret memoir which, falling into the hands of the British
Government, so far alarmed it as to lead it to call upon the Earl of Dundonald for his opinions
as to the best way of meeting the threatened danger. "This document," he wrote in his reply
to Lord Auckland, "describes a plan of maritime operations undoubtedly more injurious to the
interests of England than that pursued by France in former wars. There is nothing new, however,
in the opinions promulgated. They have long been familiar to British naval officers, whose
wonder has been that the wide-spread colonial commerce of England has never yet been effectually
assailed. It is true that the advice given in the memoir derives more importance now from the
fact that the application of steam-power to a system of predatory warfare constitutes every
harbour a port of naval equipment, requiring to be watched, not in the passive manner of former
blockades, but effectively by steam-vessels having their fires kindled at least during the
obscurity of night. The cost and number of such blockades need not be dwelt on, nor the indefinite
period to which prudence on the part of the enemy, and vigilance on that of the blockading
force, might prolong a war. One hundred millions sterling added to our national debt would
solve a doubt whether the most successful depredation on British commerce could produce consequences
more extensive and permanently injurious. The memoir obviously anticipates that 'l'usage des
canons bombes, dont les atteintes ont un si prodigieux effet,' will prevent our blockading
ships from approaching the shores of France, and that thus their steam-vessels might escape
unobserved during night, even with sailing-vessels in tow. This is no vague conjecture, but
a consequence which assuredly will follow any hesitation on our part to counteract the system
extensively adopted, and now under the consideration of the National Assembly, of arming all
batteries with projectiles, whereby to burn or blow up our ships of war--a fate which even
the precaution of keeping out of range could not avert, by reason of the incendiary and explosive
missiles whereby 'les petits bailments à vapeur pouront attaquer les plus gros vaisseaux.'
It is impossible to retaliate by using similar weapons. Forts and batteries are incombustible.
Recourse must therefore be had to other means, whereby to overcome fortifications protecting
expeditionary forces and piratical equipments."

The means recommended by Lord Dundonald, it need hardly be said, were the secret war-plans
which he had developed nearly forty years before, and the efficacy of which had recently been
again admitted by the committee appointed to investigate them in 1846. It is not allowable,
of course, to quote the paragraphs in which Lord Dundonald once more explained them and urged
their adoption in case of need. The only objection offered to them was that they were too terrible
for use by a civilized community. "These means," he replied, "all powerful, are nevertheless
humane when contrasted with the use of shells and carcases by ships at sea, and most merciful,
as competent to avert the bloodshed that would attend the contemplated 'descente en Angleterre
ou en Ireland,' and other hostile schemes recommended in the memoir."

That letter was forwarded to Lord Auckland from Halifax, where Lord Dundonald then was, in
the beginning of August. "Assuredly the reasons which you give for the use of the means suggested
are such as it is difficult to controvert," wrote Lord Auckland on the 18th; "but I would at
least defer my assent or dissent to the time when the question may be more pressing than it
is at present." "I would postpone my own reflections on the 'secret plans,'" he wrote again
on the 1st of September, "and would fain hope that events will allow the Government long to
postpone all decision upon them. I agree with you, however, in much that you say upon their
principle, and am well satisfied that to no hands better than yours could the execution of
any vigorous plans be entrusted."

When, however, as will be seen on a latter page, an opportunity did arise for enforcing those
plans against another power than France, their execution was not permitted to Lord Dundonald.

Strongly as he himself was impressed with their importance, they formed only a part of a complete
system of opinions respecting the defence of England at which he arrived by close study and
long experience. These have already been partially indicated. He did not wish that his plans
should be lightly made use of; but, believing that they would ultimately become a recognised
means of warfare, and that even without them a great revolution would soon take place in ways
of fighting, he deprecated as useless and wasteful the elaborate fortifications which were
in his time beginning to be extensively set up at Dover, Portsmouth, and other possible points
of attack upon England, and urged, with no less energy, that vast improvements ought to be
made in the construction and employment of ships of war.

Fortifications, he considered, were only desirable for the protection of the special ports
and depôts around which they were set up; and even for that purpose they ought to be so compact
as to need no more than a few troops and local garrisons for their occupation. To have them
so complicated and numerous as to require the exclusive attention of all or nearly all the
military force of England, appeared to him only a source of national weakness. His own achievements
at Valdivia and elsewhere showed him that skilful seamanship on the part of an invader would
render them much less sufficient for the defence of the country than was generally supposed.
If all our soldiers were scattered along various parts of the coast, it would not be difficult
for the enemy, by a bold and sudden onslaught, or still more by a feint of the sort in which
he himself was master, to take possession of one, and then there would be no concentrated army
available to prevent the onward march of the assailant. Much wiser would it be to leave the
seaboard comparatively unprotected from the land, and to have a powerful army so arranged as
to be ready for prompt resistance of the enemy, if, by any means, he had gained a footing on
the shore.

To prevent that footing being gained, however, Lord Dundonald was quite as eager as any champion
of monster fortifications could be; but this prevention, he urged, must be by means of moveable
ships, and not by immoveable land-works. A strong fleet of gunboats, stationed all along the
coast, and with carefully-devised arrangements for mutual communication, so that at any time
their force could be speedily concentrated in one or more important positions, would be far
more efficacious and far more economical than the more popular expedients for the military
defence of England. He heartily believed, in fact, in the old and often-proved maxim that the
sea was England's wall, and he desired to have that wall guarded by a force able to watch its
whole extent and pass at ease from one point to another as occasion required.

Desiring that thus the coast should be immediately protected by efficient gunboats, he desired
no less to augment the naval strength of the country by means of improved war-ships as much
like gunboats as possible. To large ships, if constructed in moderation and applied to special
purposes, he was not averse; but he set a far higher value upon small and well-armed vessels,
able to pass rapidly from place to place and to navigate shallow seas. "Give me," he often
said, "a fast small steamer, with a heavy long-range gun in the bow, and another in the hold
to fall back upon, and I would not hesitate to attack the largest ship afloat." His opinion
on this point also was confirmed by his own experience--most notably in the exploits of his
little Speedy in the Mediterranean--and by the whole history of English naval triumphs. Since
the time when the so-called Invincible Armada of Spain entered the British Channel, designed
to conquer England by means of its huge armaments, and when the bulky galleons and galeasses
of Philip's haughty sailors were chased and worried by the smaller barks and pinnaces of Drake,
Hawkins, Frobisher, and the other sea-captains of Elizabeth, who sailed round and round their
foe, and darted in and out of his unwieldy mass of shipping, never failing to inflict great
injury, while his volleys of artillery passed harmlessly over their decks to sink into the
sea, there had been abundant proof of the constant superiority of small warships over large.
A "mosquito fleet," as he called it, was what Lord Dundonald wished to see developed; a swarm
of active little vessels, just large enough to carry one or two powerful guns, which could
go anywhere and do anything, to which the larger crafts of the enemy would afford convenient
targets, but which, small and nimble, would be much less likely to be themselves attacked,
and, even if attacked and sunk, would entail far less loss than would ensue from the destruction
of a large war-ship. "As large a gun as possible, in a vessel as small and swift as possible,
and as many of them as you can put upon the sea," was Lord Dundonald's ideal. For this he argued
during half a century; for this he laboured hard and long in the exercise of his inventive
powers. In 1826, the plan of the war-steamers which he was to have taken to Greece was explained
to Lord Exmouth--no slight authority on naval matters. "Why, it's not only the Turkish fleet,"
exclaimed the veteran, "but all the navies in the world, that you will be able to conquer with
such craft as these."

[1839-1848.]

The restoration of his naval rank to the Earl of Dundonald in 1832, was slowly followed by
other acts reversing the injustice of previous years by which a large portion of his life had
been embittered.

"Your lordship and the Admiralty," he wrote to Lord Minto, then at the head of naval affairs,
on the 30th of March, 1839, "may have been surprised that I have never solicited any appointment
since my reinstatement in the naval service by his late Majesty, whose memory I shall ever
cherish for this magnanimous act of justice. The cause, my lord, has not been from any reluctance
on my part, but from a feeling which, I have no doubt, will appear satisfactory to your lordship,
if you do me the favour to read the enclosed copy of a letter which I have written this day
to the Marquess of Lansdowne as President of the Council." The letter to Lord Lansdowne referred
in great part to Lord Dundonald's rotary-engine, and to his secret war-plan, which he expressed
his willingness to put in execution if ever it was required. "Your lordship and the Privy Council,
however," it was added, "will not fail to observe that, if it shall ever be the intention of
the Government, under any circumstances, again to employ me in the naval service, it would
be quite inconsistent with the character of that service, as well as my own reputation, for
me to assume command, unless the Order of the Bath, gained on the 12th of April, 1809, now
thirty years ago, shall be restored to me."

"I hope it will appear to your lordship," said Lord Dundonald, in a letter to Lord Melbourne,
dated the 11th July, 1839, "that my services as a naval officer have been useful and honourable
to my country; and, referring to those services and to the peculiar opportunities I have since
had of acquiring further professional knowledge, I may say, without vanity, that her Majesty
has no officer in her navy more experienced than myself; and yet, from the extraordinary circumstances
of my case, I am the only flag-officer in her Majesty's service who, if called upon to take
a command, could not do so consistently with his own honour and the respect due to those who
might be appointed to serve under him. For where is the officer who could not conveniently
call to mind, that I, who when only a captain was a Knight of the Bath, was deprived of that
honour, and that now, though a flag-officer, I have not been deemed worthy of having it restored?"
"I am sensible," wrote Lord Dundonald in another letter to the Premier, written eight days
later, "that the act of justice which I experienced from the late King, under the ministry
of Earl Grey, of which your lordship was a distinguished member, in restoring me to my naval
rank, was a great favour, inasmuch as it evinced a considerate feeling towards me; and I was
then fully satisfied with it, under the impression that it would be viewed by the public, and
especially by the navy, as a testimony of the belief of the Government, at that time, that
I was innocent of the offence that had been laid to my charge, and also that I should stand
as good a chance as most of my brother officers (and perhaps, from my experience, a better)
of being called to active service. I did not then foresee that the restoration of my naval
rank alone would be viewed as a half-measure. Still less did I anticipate that, in the event
of my being offered an appointment, I should be incapacitated from accepting it by reason of
the feelings of other officers that I still laboured under some imputation which would render
it derogatory to them to serve under me. But it is now impossible for me to conceal from myself
the fact that, while the navy generally is kindly disposed towards me, and would rejoice to
see me fully reinstated in all that I once enjoyed, I am considered by many to remain as completely
precluded from active service as if my name had never more appeared in the Navy List, I trust,
my lord, that it cannot be thought reasonable to reduce me to the inglorious condition of a
retired or yellow admiral at home, and at the same time to deny me the privilege of acquiring
either emolument or distinction in foreign service."

Lord Dundonald's hope was that, on the occasion of her Majesty's marriage, there would be a
bestowal of honours, which would afford a convenient opportunity for the restoration of his
dignity as a Knight of the Bath. But in this he was disappointed.

A minor favour was conferred upon him, however, and in a very gratifying way, eighteen months
later. "You are probably aware," wrote Lord Minto to him on the 3rd of January, 1841, "that
the death of Sir Henry Bayntam has vacated one of the pensions for good and meritorious service.
Before I left town a few days ago I made my arrangements to enable me to confer this pension
upon you, if you should think it worthy of your acceptance, either as evidence of the high
estimation in which I have ever held your services, or as convenient in a pecuniary point of
view. Although you are one of the few who have not applied for this, I do not fear that any
one of the numerous claimants can show so good a title to it."

That compliment was accepted by Lord Dundonald in a spirit answering to that in which it was
offered. Yet his reasonable anxiety for a restitution of the Order of the Bath was not abated,
and thereupon he was engaged in a correspondence with the Earl of Haddington, then First Lord
of the Admiralty, during the early part of 1842, which was closed by the intimation, bitterly
disappointing to Lord Dundonald, that the Cabinet Council declined recommending the Queen to
comply with his earnest request.

Equally disappointing was the result of another application with the same object which he made
to Sir Robert Peel in the autumn of 1844. "Her Majesty's servants," wrote Sir Robert Peel on
the 7th of November, "have had under consideration the letter which I received from your lordship,
bearing date the 10th of September. On reference to the proceedings which were adopted in the
year 1832, it appears that, previously to the restoration of your lordship to your rank in
the navy, a free pardon under the Great Seal was granted to your lordship; and adverting to
that circumstance, and to the fact that thirty years have now elapsed since the charges to
which the free pardon had reference were the subject of investigation before the proper judicial
tribunal of the country, her Majesty's servants cannot consistently with their duty advise
the Queen to reopen an inquiry into these charges."

Lord Dundonald failed to see, in the partial reversal, twelve years before, of the unjust treatment
to which he had been subjected eighteen years before that, a reason for refusing to inquire
whether there was any injustice yet to be atoned for. He had not, however, very much longer
to wait for the object which he sought.

One of his grounds for desiring a public recognition of the efficacy of his secret war-plans
was a reasonable belief that, if it was seen that through half a lifetime he had steadfastly
avoided using for his private advantage what might have been to him a vast source of wealth,
in order that the secret might be reserved solely for the benefit of his country, it would
be acknowledged to be incredible that, for insignificant ends, he could have resorted to the
gross and clumsy fraud attributed to him at the Stock Exchange trial. And in this expectation
he was right. Nearly all the reparation that was now possible quickly followed upon the investigation
into the war-plans that was referred to in the last chapter.

While the investigation was pending he was pained by a letter from Sir Thomas Hastings, not
unkind in itself, but showing that his real motives for courting that investigation were not
understood. "I made a communication to-day," wrote Sir Thomas on the 27th of November, 1846,
"that the commission had entered on its duties, and received instructions to inform you that
it would be desirable, before the commission proceeded further, to ascertain your lordship's
views as to the nature of the remuneration you would expect from Government in the event of
your plans being reported on favourably."

Lord Dundonald's reply was characteristic. "You intimate a wish on the part of Government,"
he wrote on the 1st of December, "to ascertain my views in regard to the 'remuneration' I expect,
in the event of my plans being favourably reported on. I reply that I devoted these plans,
thirty-five years ago, to the service of my country, that I have reserved them through the
most adverse and trying circumstances, satisfied that at some future time I should prove my
character to be above pecuniary considerations or mercenary motives. I have looked forward
to the restoration of those honours, of which I was most unjustly bereaved, and to freedom
from mental anguish, endured throughout an isolation from society of one-third of a century.
I cannot contrast with such sufferings, nor with my plans, any sum that Government could bestow.
Nevertheless, I have implicitly relied that collateral deprivations and losses would be taken
into consideration by some future, just, and impartial Administration. I do most earnestly
hope that the period has now arrived."

That letter was communicated by Sir Thomas Hastings to Lord Auckland. "I return the letter,"
he wrote to Sir Thomas on the 16th of December, "which Lord Dundonald wrote to you upon the
remuneration which he would expect in the event of a favourable report upon his plans; namely,
first, his restoration to the honours of which he was deprived; and, secondly, a consideration
of collateral deprivations and losses. I am sorry to acquaint you that the first condition
is one to which I am not authorized to promise an acquiescence. It is not necessary that I
should discuss the difficulties which occur to the restoration in question. I can only express
my own deep regret that they should exist, and that the hopes which have been entertained by
Lord Dundonald should be disappointed. For myself, I personally regard him. I look upon his
naval career as most remarkable and most honourable; and I must lament whatever may seem to
detract from the advantage and grace of his return to the navy."

"Sir Thomas Hastings," wrote Lord Dundonald to Lord Auckland on the following day, "has sent
me your sympathizing note on the decision of the Cabinet Council in regard to the first item,
designated as 'the remuneration I would expect in the event of a favourable report on my plans.'
Now, after the expression of my deep sense of gratitude to your lordship for having brought
the question before the Cabinet, I do most sincerely rejoice that 'the first condition is one
to which you are not authorized to promise an acquiescence.' I could not deem acquiescence
a remuneration, nor could I value it otherwise than as evidence of conviction, produced by
facts and the tenor of a whole life, of my incapability of descending to base acts for gain
at any period of my existence, especially at a moment when I can prove that I had objects of
the highest national importance and the most brilliant personal prospects in view. In confirmation
of disinterestedness, I further hold my retention of the 'secret war-plans' for a period of
thirty-five years, notwithstanding frequent opportunities to use them to my incalculable private
advantage. The merit of these plans, though I am well aware of their value, is yet officially
unpronounced by the commission appointed to report. Therefore, the preceding facts being doubtful,
I repeat that I do most sincerely rejoice that the Cabinet Council have manifested that their
decision neither depends on favour nor on the value of the plans themselves. Foreseeing that,
whatever may be the ultimate determination, it must be founded on facts and justified by an
exposition of my conduct and character, I am preparing a document which, whatever may be my
fate pending the brief remainder of my existence, will justify my memory when grievous wrongs
shall cease to prey on a mind which, save from the consciousness of rectitude, would in brief
time have bowed my head with humiliation to the ground." The document there referred to was
a pamphlet entitled "Observations on Naval Affairs, and on some Collateral Subjects." In it
were concisely enumerated Lord Dundonald's services as a British naval officer, and the hardships
brought upon him by the unmerited Stock Exchange trial. The pamphlet was published in February,
1847, and immediately excited considerable attention. "I hope the difficulties which have prevented
the realization of your wishes may be removed shortly," wrote Sir Thomas Hastings on the 2nd
of March. "But services so distinguished, and a career so splendid and full of professional
instruction as your lordship's, can never be blotted out or rendered dim in the annals of the
naval history of our country." "I have had the kindest note possible from the Marquess of Lansdowne,"
said Lord Dundonald, in a letter written on the 27th of April. "Lord Auckland was at our house
on Saturday, and spoke in the kindest and most feeling manner. I hear from all quarters that
the pamphlet has made and is making a great impression, and I have every hope that all will
end well."

All did end well. The public announcement, on the highest authority, of the value of his secret
war-plans, and the consequent exhibition of his disinterested patriotism in so long preserving
them for his country's use, followed by the bold appeal made by him to the public through his
pamphlet, brought success at last to his long-continued efforts to obtain a restoration of
his dignity as a Knight of the Bath. His best friends in the Cabinet, especially Lords Lansdowne
and Auckland, had influence, though not all the influence they desired, upon other Cabinet
and Privy Councillors who were opposed to the tardy act of justice. But they did not wait for
the assent of all. On the 6th of May Lord Lansdowne represented the case to her Majesty the
Queen, and received her promise that, with or without the approval of her Privy Councillors,
she would confer the next vacant Order of the Bath upon Lord Dundonald.

Fortunately a vacancy occurred immediately, through the death of Admiral Sir Davige Gould.
"Lord Auckland has called," wrote Lord Dundonald on the 9th of May, "and informed me officially
that the Queen has placed at his disposal the vacant Order of the Bath; and that, in conformity
with the intention with which it was so placed, he was to deliver it to me." "I have information
from the palace," he wrote a few days later, "that her Majesty has had conversation as to the
justice of some further atonement for the injuries that have been inflicted on me, and that
she said it was subject of regret that such was not in her power; but, should the subject be
entertained by her advisers, her concurrence would not be wanting."

That further act of justice was never rendered; but Lord Dundonald rejoiced that the more important
measure--that which, by restoring the dignity wrongfully taken from him, would do more than
anything else to set him right in the eyes of the world--was at last adopted. "It gives me
sincere pleasure," wrote Lord John Russell on the 12th of May, in answer to a letter thanking
him for the conduct of his Administration, "that the last act of the Government has been so
gratifying to you. Your services to your country are recorded among those of the most brilliant
of a war signalised by heroic achievements. I will lay before her Majesty the expression of
your gratitude, and I can assure you that the Queen has sanctioned with the greatest satisfaction
the advice of her ministers."

On the 25th of May--the order being dated the 22nd--Lord Dundonald was gazetted as a Knight
Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath; and this act of grace was rendered more graceful by the
personal interest shown by Prince Albert, who, as Grand Master of the Order, dispensed with
the customary formalities and delays, and, on the following morning, caused a warrant to be
sent to him, in order that he might wear the cross at the birthday drawing-room, which he attended
by her Majesty's command on the 27th of May. Thus another step was made in the way of retribution
for the injuries inflicted on him in 1814 and in the ensuing years.

"To-day," he wrote on the 12th of July, "there was a grand muster at the palace of all the
Knights Grand Crosses, and many inferior Crosses, and I was installed. Lord Ellenborough was
one of my sponsors, and the Duke of Wellington shook hands with me, and expressed his satisfaction
at my restoration to the Order. I am glad to tell you that the ceremony of knighting, of which
I was afraid, was not resorted to; so my knightship dates back to the 27th of April, 1809."

In another effort to obtain full justice for himself, however, he was unsuccessful. The great
expenses that sprang out of his long-continued scientific and mechanical pursuits had absorbed
all his scanty sources of income, and he forcibly urged that in accordance with the precedent
furnished by a similar grant to Sir Robert Wilson, in 1832, he was entitled to the arrears
of pay due to him for the seventeen years during which he had been kept out of his position
in the British navy. But his request was refused; and the heavy pecuniary loss, as well as
other and much heavier deprivations, consequent on a persecution that has been since admitted
to have been wholly undeserved, has never been compensated.[20]

  [20] Part of a letter which Lord Dundonald received on this subject
  four years afterwards from Mr. Joseph Hume, though quoted in his
  "Autobiography," is too important to be here omitted. "I considered,"
  wrote the great champion of public economy, on the 10th of May, 1852,
  "that you were incapable of taking the means that were resorted to by
  Mr. Cochrane Johnstone, and for which you suffered; and I was pleased
  to learn that you had been restored to your rank. I considered that
  act a proof that the Government which had restored you to the rank and
  honours of your profession, and had afterwards appointed you to the
  command in the West Indies, must have come to the same conclusion;
  and, until the perusal of your draft petition, I concluded that you
  had all your arrears paid to you as a tardy, though inadequate, return
  to your lordship, whose early exploits did honour to yourself, and
  gave additional lustre to the naval service of the country to which
  you belonged.... His Majesty King William IV. was satisfied with the
  innocence of Sir Robert Wilson, and he was restored to the
  service--was, I understand, paid all the arrears of pay and allowances
  during his suspension, and afterwards appointed to the command of
  Gibraltar. I was pleased at the result; and it would give me equal
  pleasure to learn that your application to her Majesty should be
  attended with an act of justice to you equally merited." Lord
  Palmerston subsequently, in answer to an application from Lord
  Dundonald--forgetting Sir Robert Wilson's case--said there was no
  precedent for such an act. Lord Dundonald answered that there was no
  precedent for such injustice as had been done to him.

Shortly after that event Lord Dundonald sought to be elected one of the Scotch representative
peers in the House of Lords. Now that his load of unmerited disgrace was shaken off, he desired
to resume his old functions as a legislator--and this with no abatement of his zeal for the
welfare of the people; but with none of the violence which his own heavy sufferings at the
time of their first and heaviest pressure had partly caused him to show during his former parliamentary
career. Being now a peer, he could not return to his seat in the House of Commons, and being
a Scotch peer, he could only sit in the House of Lords as one of the delegates from the aristocracy
of his native land. Among these he therefore asked for a place at the election in September,
1847. He did not, however, begin to seek it early enough. Other candidates had, according to
custom, obtained promises of a majority of votes from the electors before he thought of canvassing,
and he was thus left in a minority. Many peers, however, who on this occasion were unable to
support him, offered to pledge their votes to him for the next election.

A minor favour was at this time shown to Lord Dundonald, which afforded him real gratification.
In 1835, he had been allowed by King William IV. to use the insignia of a Grand Commander of
the Order of the Saviour of Greece, conferred upon him by King Otho. In August, 1847, he applied
to the Cabinet for permission to use the title of Marquis of Maranham and the Grand Cross of
Brazil, both of which had been conferred upon him by the Emperor Pedro I., in 1823. "I have
to acquaint your lordship," wrote Lord Palmerston, then Foreign Secretary, on the 11th of October,
"that under the peculiar circumstances of the case, which have prevented the application being
made earlier, the Queen has signified her pleasure that you should be permitted to accept the
Grand Cross of the Order of the Cruziero. With regard, however, to the title of Marquis of
Maranham, it is my duty to state to your lordship that, after full consideration, her Majesty's
Government regret that they cannot advise the Queen to grant you the desired permission. While
her Majesty's Government duly appreciate the services rendered by your lordship to the Crown
of Brazil, they consider it to be on general principles so undesirable that distinguished officers
of the British navy should have foreign titles, that they feel themselves compelled to decline
complying with the request." "I beg to assure your lordship," wrote Lord Dundonald in reply,
on the 18th of October, "that I feel more gratitude in being informed of the sentiments of
her Majesty's Government in regard to my faithful and zealous services in Brazil than I ever
experienced from the title conferred on me as the honorary portion of my reward for such services.
As far as relates to assuming the title in my native country, I entreat your lordship to believe
that I never entertained the intention."

A memorable occurrence soon followed. Now that his honours as well as his naval rank were restored
to him, he had no reason for holding back from active service in his profession; and the Earl
of Auckland, anxious to make use--as far as use could be made in peace-time--of his great and
varied experience, and also to give further proof of the desire at last to render him all possible
honour, was prompt in offering him fresh employment on the sea. "I shall shortly have to name
a Commander-in-Chief for the North American and West Indian Station," wrote Lord Auckland on
the 27th of December, 1847. "Will you accept the appointment? I shall feel it to be an honour
and a pleasure to have named you to it, and I am satisfied that your nomination will be agreeable
to her Majesty, as it will be to the country, and, particularly, to the navy."

Lord Dundonald did accept the appointment, rejoicing in it as a further step in reparation
for the injuries by which he had been hindered, a whole generation before, from rising to the
highest rank in the naval service of his country. He might then have achieved victories over
the French which would have surpassed his brilliant exploit at Basque Roads. He could now only
direct the quiet operations of a small fleet in time of peace. This, however, being the best
that it was now possible for him to do, he gladly undertook. "Permit me," he wrote to Lord
Auckland, "to assure your lordship that this gracious act has further tended to obliterate
the deep and painful impressions made by thirty years of mental suffering, such as no language
can describe; for, my lord, the agony produced by false accusations on an honourable mind is
infinitely greater than merited infliction of death itself. I leave your lordship then to estimate
the amount of obligation I fail to convey, and beg you will allow me to express a hope that
your generous recommendation to her Majesty will be justified by my zealous endeavours to fulfil
the duties I owe to my sovereign and country."

"I have waited for her Majesty's assent to your appointment," said the Earl of Auckland in
a letter written on the 3rd of January, 1848, "before answering your letter of the 28th ultimo.
This assent has been most cordially given, and you may now consider yourself Commander-in-Chief
of the North American and West Indian Station, and I may repeat that my share in this proceeding
has given me very great pleasure, and that I am confirmed in my feelings of gratification by
the terms in which you speak of occupying your proper place in the navy. I am glad for you,
and I am glad for myself that I have done this just and honourable act."

Very hearty was the satisfaction expressed by all classes as soon as Lord Dundonald's appointment
was made public. "I beg," wrote Mr. Delane, the editor of the "Times," earliest of all in tendering
his compliments, "to offer my very hearty congratulations upon your appointment--all that remained
to efface the stain of such unmerited persecution." "The communication you have just made to
me," wrote the Duke of Hamilton and Brandon, "is most gratifying, and the First Lord of the
Admiralty has done himself immortal honour in appointing that naval officer commander in one
hemisphere who had previously illustrated his name by his most brilliant exploits in the other.
Everything I think has now been done to undo the foul aspersions with which you have been assailed;
and I am sure now everything will be done that can most serve to establish the ability of the
officer and the delicacy of the gentleman. I congratulate you most sincerely upon your appointment,
and I hope you will meet with difficulties when you arrive at your destination. Don't be surprised
at this my wish. It proceeds from knowing the ample resources of my friend to overcome them,
and his constant desire to sacrifice everything to duty and honour." "I derive the greatest
pleasure and satisfaction from your appointment to the command of a British fleet," wrote Sir
George Sinclair, "an appointment not less creditable to the ministry than honourable to yourself.
I cannot help contemplating with affectionate sorrow the portrait of our dearest friend, Sir
Francis Burdett, now suspended over the chimney-piece, and thinking how happy he would have
been had he witnessed this most welcome and delightful consummation." "Permit me the honour,"
wrote Admiral John White, "to bear testimony to the high gratification I felt at seeing by
the papers the announcement of your lordship's having taken the command of the West India and
Halifax Stations. The whole British empire has expressed great joy at this justice having been
done to the bravery of your lordship as an officer and your goodness and honour as a man."
That last sentence told no more than the truth.

CHAPTER XXVII.

[1848.]

Lord Dundonald left London for Devonport on the 16th of March, 1848, and on the following day
hoisted his flag on board the Wellesley as Admiral in command of the North American and West
Indian Fleet. On the 25th of March he set sail for Halifax, which was soon reached, and was,
during three years, the head-quarters from which he proceeded on numerous voyages in fulfilment
of the duties of his office. These duties were not very onerous or various. They were relieved,
however, by much careful study of the circumstances and prospects of our colonies in British
North America, and by correspondence thereupon, and on other subjects, with influential friends
at home, and especially with Lord Auckland, the First Lord of the Admiralty. From this correspondence
some selections will be made in the ensuing pages.

"I am very much pleased with your letter of the 19th," wrote Lord Auckland, on the 21st of
March, while the Wellesley was still at Devonport, "and the good spirit with which you look
forward to your coming duties. I know how irksome is the succession of the petty duties which
are incident to places of authority, and how far more attractive is the excitement of great
actions to those who are capable of performing them. But even the first class of duties is
not without interest, and carries credit as it is performed with justice and exactness; and
I hope that for the second the necessity of great exertions will not arise. But it is always
well that the possibility of their being called for should be borne in mind; and, while you
follow the peaceful avocations of your station, I should be glad that you become acquainted
with all its points of strength and of weakness. All the information and advice that you may
give to me will be gratefully received and carefully considered."

"I hope," wrote Lord Auckland, three days later, "that the Mosquito affair will have been brought
to a termination before your arrival, and that the necessity for the presence of ships in the
Bay of Mexico will have terminated with a cessation of hostilities between the United States
and Mexico. You will then have the slave-trade and the fisheries mainly to attend to. You will
learn from the Consul at Cuba whether the slave-trade is now actively carried on. It had for
some time entirely ceased, but it may have revived, and, with good information and force for
interception applied at the right time, I should hope that it will not require many of your
ships. The fisheries will, for a season, be a regular and fixed object of attention. Though
I feel that your number of ships is small, it is difficult for me to increase it. I hate to
fritter away our men and naval strength on a multitude of brigs and sloops and petty objects."

Lord Auckland communicated to his friend many interesting opinions respecting the state of
politics and the condition of affairs on both sides of the Atlantic. A letter from him, dated
the 30th of April, had reference chiefly to the troubles occasioned at that time by the interference
of Nicaragua with British commerce, which had necessitated the sending of Captain Lock, in
the Alarm, to watch the course of events and compel proper behaviour by the turbulent state.
"A 'little war' is always a vexatious thing," he wrote, "and our relations with the state of
Mosquito, though they have long and ancient standing to recommend them, are strange and anomalous.
But the insults of Nicaragua were highly provoking. The detention of British subjects was not
to be borne, and the spirit which has been exhibited by Captain Lock, the spirit and enterprise
with which his operations were directed, the conduct of all who served under him, and the successful
results which have been achieved, are all highly to be applauded. I am glad, however, that
they have left the river of San Juan. I see that in 1780 Nelson lost by the climate there fifteen
hundred out of eighteen hundred men; and I well know what is the effect of a low country in
the tropics, particularly after exertion and fatigue."

The rest of the letter related to the turmoil excited in Europe by the deposition of Louis
Philippe in February, 1848, and the less successful revolutions in other countries. "We continue
to be on the very best terms with the Provisional Government, and there is a better disposition
towards us on the part of the French people than there was at the first outbreak of the Revolution.
I have therefore at present no apprehension of war. There is, however, this danger; that Germany
and Italy are greatly disturbed, and that Austria and Sardinia are engaged in war on the side
of Italy, and Prussia and Denmark to the north, and it will not be easy for France and England
to be peaceful lookers-on. Besides which, the Government of France will long be subject to
popular gusts, and it is never easy to say in what direction they may blow. In the meantime,
however, all wears the appearance of peace, and at home the chances of disturbance both from
Chartists and Repealers have become less. We have only danger from the distress and want of
employment which have followed upon the shock given to credit throughout Europe."

Unfortunately, most of the letters written by Lord Dundonald during these months have been
lost; but something of their purport may be gathered from the replies to them. "I am very glad,"
Lord Auckland wrote, on the 28th of May, "that your thoughts appear to be very considerately
given to the health of those that are under your command. You will, of course, have consideration
for the ships that have served in the Gulf of Mexico, or other unhealthy places, and give them
a turn in the north. I did not lose a moment in sending to Lord Grey your suggestions in favour
of removing the convict hulks at Bermuda, and he has promised me that he will, without delay,
issue orders accordingly."

Lord Auckland wrote again to his friend on the 23rd of June. "I have your valuable memoranda
on the defences and dockyard of Bermuda," he said, "and I am greatly obliged to you for them,
as will be Lord Grey. I will promise to give them early and deep consideration. In the meantime
I will press the Board to give immediate authority for the improvement of the drains of the
hospital, and of the supply of water. I am greatly obliged to you for the steadiness with which
you keep considerations of economy in view. The disinterestedness with which you regard the
schemes which have been proposed for a new Admiralty House at Bermuda will give you authority
in checking expenditure in other objects."

"The affairs of France," we read in the same letter, written while General Cavaignac was suppressing
the June revolution, "are most unsettled. There is no confidence in any man or party, and there
are discontent, and mistrust, and alarm. All feel that things cannot go on in their present
form; but none can foresee what will follow. It may be a continuance of internal dissension,
but in an aggravated form. It may be a disposition to external violence. At home the condition
both of England and Ireland is quieter than it was." "There is more brightness in our prospects
at home just now," wrote Lord Auckland, three weeks later, on the 14th of July, "than has been
the case for some months. Commerce and credit are reviving; Chartism is dormant, and Ireland
is less troublesome. And on the Continent there is a more general disposition to return to
institutions of order. I confess that I should be glad to hear that just at this moment there
were a larger force than usual at Bermuda. The presence there of Mitchell[21] is apparently
raising some excitement. Though I cannot apprehend any formidable attempt at rescue, yet the
notoriety of a force being at or about the island may put an end to the vapouring menaces which
are proclaimed, and prevent any rash or foolish enterprise that may be projected."

  [21] The great Chartist who, having been tried and sentenced to
  transportation, had been sent to Bermuda in May, 1848.

"Thanks to you for your letter from Halifax," Lord Auckland wrote again, on the 21st of July,
"and for your last sheets on the defences of Bermuda. I did not think, when we parted, that
the question of these defences would so soon come under serious discussion, with a view to
their practical efficiency, but I do not yet think they will be put to the test by any formidable
attempt for the rescue of Mr. Mitchell. Such apprehensions of danger, however, as they occur
occasionally, do good, and lead men to think of and correct their weak points. What you say
of the accessible nature of the southern reef surprises me, and strengthens your recommendation
of gunboats as the means of defence which are least to be neglected. I only hang back in regard
to them, as the Naval Department could not bear the expense of such defences for the many colonies
that would require them, and they must be provided by the Colonial Governments. Our arrangements,
however, may in some cases be subsidiary to theirs, and, wherever it is possible, the craft
of the dockyard and other establishments should be so fitted as to be capable of carrying a
gun. I am glad you sent off the Scourge to Bermuda. She is a handy vessel and well commanded,
and the notoriety of her presence will not be without a useful effect. What you say of the
character of the emigrants that are sent forth from Ireland to our colonies is but too true.
Yet it is better that they should go than accumulate famine and disturbance at home. The present
condition of Ireland menaces trouble and difficulty."

"I am quite aware," wrote Earl Grey, who was then Secretary of State for the Colonies, to Lord
Dundonald, on the 3rd of August, "of the unfortunate tendency of the emigration to the North
American provinces being chiefly from Ireland; but I do not see how it is in the power of the
Government effectually to counteract the causes which are leading to the settlement of so large
a proportion of Irish in this part of the British dominion. I fear this will, hereafter, be
attended with very unfortunate results." "I beg to thank your lordship," he also said, "for
the important information you have transmitted to me, and for the pains you have taken in considering
the subject of the defence of Bermuda, which I recommended to your attention before you left
England. I am in communication with Lord Auckland upon this subject, and we shall endeavour
to act upon your suggestions so far as we are enabled to do so, under the financial difficulties
with which we have to contend."

In the next letter written by Lord Auckland to Lord Dundonald, on the 18th of August, he again
referred to European politics. "There is, with regard to the Continent, more promise of peace
at this moment than there has been for a long time past, and there is a tone of more moderation
on the part of France towards other countries than I have ever expected to see. But she yet
has within her fearful elements of disturbance; her Government is yet unsettled, and, whenever
determined, it will be subject to strong popular influences, and there can be no security.
I almost apprehend earlier mischief from the popular influences of the United States. They
have had a task of conquest and annexation, and Cuba lies temptingly. The uneasiness of the
black population of many of the West India Islands may lead to opportunities, and disagreeable
events may grow out of such circumstances. But these are matters of speculation, and nothing
turns out as men think that they foresee. I wish that your squadron was stronger; for you are
weak in numbers for the many points that you have to cover. Our home politics are rather more
satisfactory than they were; that is to say, the dangers of Irish insurrection and of formidable
Chartist outbreak are over. But there is still much uneasiness and disaffection in both countries,
and the various events of Paris have given encouragement to strange enterprises. I apprehend,
however, no serious mischief from these quarters at present; but we have in prospect a very
general failure of the potato crop, and a very indifferent harvest, and here will be new causes
of embarrassment."

There were many causes of embarrassment to English statesmen during the ensuing months. "For
the present," wrote Lord Auckland, on the 1st of September, "there is a cordial and friendly
understanding between the Governments of this country and France, and the chances of war seem
to be distant. General Cavaignac seems to be a prudent and moderate man. But no one can predict
into what courses the popular influences of France may force him, or what changes may on any
day occur. The extreme Communist party is weaker than it was; and a Royalist party--for some
king, but not for Louis Philippe--is growing up; and between these is a Government of a republic
and an army. The first political difficulty will be that of Italy, where the Austrians will
not readily make any concession, and where the French will not readily see them again accumulate
strength. It is to be seen whether their mediation and ours will be of any avail."

"The condition of the present French Government is precarious," Lord Auckland said in another
letter, dated the 9th of November. "According to present appearances, Louis Napoleon will be
elected President, not because he is personally esteemed, but from his name, with some parties,
and because it is anticipated by others that his rule will be short, and that he will be made
to make way for others." "The election of a French President is over," Lord Auckland was able
to say on the 25th of December, "and has been carried at last with a rush; and we are to have
a new dynasty of Napoleons. Louis Napoleon was supported by the army for his name, by the bulk
of the nation because Cavaignac and the Republic were hated, and by the Legitimists because
they think he may presently be overthrown. He is pronounced to be a foolish man; but his course
has been lately one of prudence and perseverance, and he will enter upon power with good auspices.
But he will have many difficulties to contend with, and we may yet see many changes before
the condition of France will be settled."

The Earl of Auckland, one of the worthiest and most generous statesmen of his time, Lord Dundonald's
firm friend, and the friend of all with whom he came in contact, did not live to see these
changes. Just a week after that letter was written, Admiral John Dundas, who had been his chief
adviser on Admiralty matters, had to write to Lord Dundonald. "It is with great regret," he
said, on the 1st of January, 1849, "I have to inform you of the death of Lord Auckland, after
a few hours' illness. He was on a visit to Lord Ashburton, near Winchester, on Saturday--seized
with a fit--never spoke after--and died this morning. You may well imagine the universal sorrow
at such a loss; and I am sure you will join in that, for I know well the friendship that existed
between you."

By Lord Auckland's letters, it has been shown that, among much else, Lord Dundonald made special
study of the actual condition and the possible improvement of Bermuda, both as a convict settlement
and as a centre of defence against any attacks that might be made upon the West Indies. He
suggested various beneficial changes for the strengthening of its fortifications and for lessening
its unhealthy character by better drainage and other expedients. In all of these he was supported
by Lord Auckland. But from the new First Lord of the Admiralty, Sir Francis Baring, he met
with less encouragement. Bermuda had been made a subject of inquiry by a Parliamentary Committee,
and the House of Commons being averse to any further expense, Sir Francis Baring was compelled
to countermand much of the action that had been resolved upon.

With Sir Francis Baring Lord Dundonald corresponded on little but strictly official matters,
and therefore their letters are of less general interest than those which passed between him
and Lord Auckland.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

[1848-1850.]

The foregoing chapter consists chiefly of extracts from letters addressed to Lord Dundonald
during 1848. In the present one free use will be made of his own journal of a tour among the
colonies and islands whose interests he was appointed to watch as Admiral of the North American
and West Indian squadron.[22] It furnishes much interesting information about the places visited,
and has also additional interest as illustrating the writer's tone of mind and method of investigation
concerning every object that came in his way. The journal describes his occupations during
eight months, beginning with the summer of 1849, and includes reminiscences of less systematic
visits to the various localities made during the previous year. Leaving Halifax, in Nova Scotia,
on the 14th of July, Lord Dundonald proceeded northwards, passed Cape Breton Island to Newfoundland,
the fisheries of which it was part of his duty to protect.

  [22] Published in 1861 as a pamphlet, entitled, "Notes on the
  Mineralogy, Government, and Condition of the British West India
  Islands and North American Maritime Colonies."

He entered St. George's Harbour, the chief resort of the fishermen and traders, on the 27th
of July. "It is situated," he said, "in the angle of a deep bay between Aguille and Cape St.
George, the town being on the promontory and having deep water close to it. No village can
be better placed for the herring fishery, as these gregarious fish at the season of their arrival
on the coast enter this harbour, as it were, into the cod of a net, whence they are lifted
into the boats by scoops and buckets. With such slender means possessed by the inhabitants,
the average catch amounts to twenty-two thousand barrels; but hundreds of thousands might be
taken, were encouragement afforded. Salmon are also caught in the neighbouring rivers, which
are alive with undisturbed and neglected trout. The barrels in which the herrings are packed
are said to cost two shillings and sixpence each, and some new regulation requires additional
hoops, which, to those concerned, appears a grievance. It is said the herrings must realise
ten shillings per barrel, in order to repay costs and labour, but the last advices from Halifax
state that eight shillings only are offered by the merchants. The French, I understand, attend
more to the cod fishery. They are not at liberty, if they adhere to the treaty, to draw nets
on the shore. There is an American merchant here who deals in truck with the English settlers,
and obtains from them about a third part of the herrings caught, which he sends to the United
States in such of the numerous American schooners employed in the fishery as enter this bay.
The unauthorised British settlers here are said to be very jealous of intruders, as they consider
they have an exclusive right to the land and fisheries in their actual possession, and from
which all are, by treaty, excluded. They seemed suspicious that the Wellesley might have some
motive in entering the bay contrary to their interests. No person whatsoever came on board,
nor did any one come off to the ship, even to offer himself as a pilot. Some persons were lately
desirous to set up a saw-mill, which would have been important, as they obtain all their staves
for herring-casks, &c., from abroad; but the sanction of the inhabitants could not be obtained.
There is no magistrate or civil or military authority, no medical man, and, perhaps fortunately,
no attorney. Indeed, there is no law, though justice is done amongst themselves after their
own manner. There is a neat little church, at which the bishop is now officiating, and the
people who are resorting to it seem well-dressed and orderly."

On the 30th of July Lord Dundonald left the harbour, to pass round the sharp promontory known
as Cape St. George. "About midway," he said, "a remarkable change takes place to the northward
of the table mountain, where the vertical strata become in appearance horizontal along the
whole shore of the projecting isthmus. The colour of the strata is chiefly grey, in parallel
layers of varying hardness, as appears from its projections and indentations. I could not,
without delaying the ship longer than I wished, procure samples of the strata, but there was
no appearance of carboniferous minerals. The same layers were visible in detached places up
to the tops of the hills, which are of considerable altitude, though that is not denoted in
the chart. When we rounded Cape St. George on the following morning, the strata, which before
appeared parallel, were observed to dip at a considerable angle towards the N.E., and seemed,
where sufficiently exposed to view, to be split into large diagonal flakes. There is an island
close off the shore, about five miles to the eastward of the Cape, called Red Island, which
is of quite a different formation seemingly red horizontal layers of sandstone, of a soft nature,
as is obvious from the encroachments of the sea. The peninsula opposite to this island is of
considerable elevation, as far as Round Head, whence it gradually lowers to a point about ten
miles farther to the eastward. Here the level ground at first seems to be alluvial, but on
closer observation indurated rocks are seen to protrude in flakes dipping into the sea. The
bay formed by this promontory is of great magnitude. There are several islands at its mouth
and in the interior, but there being no chart, and no motive for entering it, we stood on towards
the mountains on the main shore, some of which are very high. In many parts the contortion
of the strata, and the confusion of all kinds of materials, are extraordinary. The sides of
the mountains on the shore are clad with moss alone, trees of very stunted growth only appearing
in the sheltered valleys. No visible portion of the shore seems capable of producing food for man."

From the western coast of Newfoundland Lord Dundonald sailed due north to visit Labrador. With
its natural resources, and the neglect of them, he was much surprised. "The British possessions
in Labrador," he said, "extend over a tract of country as great as the northern regions of
Russia from St. Petersburg towards the Pole, wherein the Ural Mountains compensate that Government
for the sterility of the soil. I have often felt surprise at the indifference evinced by the
Spanish Government towards developing the resources of its possessions; but it is with still
greater astonishment I view the supineness of our own Government in leaving this vast tract
unexplored, and its probable treasures undiscovered."

Similar complaints were suggested to him by his observations on the eastern side of Newfoundland,
to which he sailed down on the 6th of August. "We passed several ports, wherein there were
numerous French ships and square-rigged vessels dismantled, and schooners and multitudes of
fishing-boats in full activity in the offing. These schooners and fishing-boats are manned
by the crews of the large French vessels which are laid up in port, and constitute depots as
well as the means of transporting the produce of the fishery to France, an arrangement highly
advantageous to the French marine, and which we erroneously abandoned by erecting Newfoundland
into a Colonial Government, thus surrendering our deep-sea fishery entirely, even without rendering
the inshore fishery available to the newly-erected colony, throughout which it languishes from
want of stimulus, or an adequate reward, even to induce the impoverished inhabitants of the
shore to avail themselves of their small and almost costless boats to catch fish, which, by
reason of the bounties given by France and America, are unsaleable with profit in any country
in Europe. It is grievous to observe the difference in the mode of carrying on the British
fishery compared to that of the French. The former in rudely-constructed skiffs, with a couple
of destitute-looking beings in party-coloured rags; the latter in fine, well-equipped schooners,
which may be called tenders to their larger ships, the seamen uniformly dressed in blue, with
Joinville hats, looking as men ought and may be expected to look whose interests and those
of the parent State are understood to be in unison, and attended to as such."

At St. John's, Newfoundland, Lord Dundonald made some stay before sailing down to Sydney, in
Cape Breton. Then he returned to Halifax, to go thence for a second visit to Bermuda.

Respecting Bermuda, as we have seen, he had much correspondence. "This island," he now said,
"ever since the discovery of the opening in the reefs by Captain Hurd, has been deemed of much
naval importance, and plans were formed by the highest military authorities for its defence.
A naval arsenal also has been designed for the accommodation of a large establishment of ships
of war. Distant islands, however, cannot be defended on principles which would be the most
judicious at home--by the erection of forts in all quarters that could be occupied by an enemy.
It is obvious that, under the circumstances of Bermuda, troops cannot be spared from the parent
State permanently to garrison the multitude of forts which, on such a principle of defence,
would be requisite. If they could, the expense would be enormous, and therefore I cannot dismiss
this subject without an expression of my satisfaction at the intelligence I lately received
that such extravagant and unavailing system of fortification has been suspended. In my opinion
it is a great error to imagine that naval officers are unfit to be consulted respecting maritime
defences; had it not been for so mistaken a notion many hundreds of thousands of pounds, perhaps
I might say a million, might have been saved. I unhesitatingly assert that gunboats not only
would suffice, but are by far the most available, and infinitely the cheapest defensive force
amongst the rocks around the island of Bermuda. The coloured population of this island are
a fine race, incomparably superior to the generality of the coloured population in the West
Indies. They are accustomed to navigate in their commercial vessels: their lives are almost
spent in boats, and no better crews could be got for the defence of their own island than they
would prove themselves to be."

"The existence of this solitary island so far from the continent of North America," we further
read in Lord Dundonald's journal, "is a circumstance meriting the attention of geologists,
as well as the uniform material of which it is composed. It is all of a calcareous nature,
but differing in condition from any of the other islands of the same substance. The strata
are exposed in the perpendicular cliffs on the sea-shore in numerous precipices, from a hundred
feet to minor altitudes, and are composed either of the most minute shells, or of parts of
shells so triturated that they scarcely indicate their origin. In some places, however, there
are laminae containing shells in a more perfect state, all of a white colour, with the exception
of one (which I found on digging a cave) of a semicircular shape, of a red colour, and almost
as large as an oyster shell. The whole of the substance of Bermuda can be burnt into good lime;
but there is an indurated calcareous stone, often containing many perfect shells, on the island
on which the naval yard is being built, which is preferred as more adhesive and better in quality.
Although there are no indications of volcanic products on this island, yet it exhibits manifest
proofs that volcanic force has raised it from the depths of the ocean. In what stage of induration
it was at that period it is difficult to conjecture. The hills and vales throughout the whole
extent of Bermuda have the stratified calcareous material generally conforming on all sides
to the inclination of the surface. There are, however, many situations in which the strata
present themselves as manifestly broken by force. In the deep cutting in the road which enters
into the enclosure around the Government House, one of these breaks appears at the apex of
the hill, dividing its sides, which here incline towards the centre, exposing a wedge-formed
supplementary part that fills up the interstice. In the grounds of the Admiralty House curious
instances of unconformable strata are laid bare in old quarries. These indicate some other
cause for their nonconformity than that before assigned, and I am quite at a loss to imagine
how the stratified materials could have been placed one above another at such different angles
by the action of water, or in any other way, without appearance of disruption. There are caves
upon this island containing large stalactites. There is one on Tucker's Island where these
stalactites reach from the top of the cave far below the surface of the salt water it contains.
I am not aware of any other instance where similar crystalisations have taken place under the
sea water. It seems to lead to the belief that this island was at some time less submerged.
There are other caves much larger, and one which goes in so far that the officers who accompanied
me did not scramble to its end. This cave is formed by two large masses of calcareous matter
having been reared up one against the other. I have seen some very beautiful crystallisations
taken from another cave recently found in a quarry at Ireland Island; but the absence of petrifactions
here (for I have never seen one) constitutes a remarkable difference between this formation
and that on the island of Antigua, where the roads are almost made with petrifactions.

"In clearing the surface of the rock, as has lately been done at the quarries, and in laying
the foundation of the new convict barracks, the most irregular formation is exposed. Large
holes are found contiguous to each other in the white calcareous rock, which are filled with
a substance resembling chocolate in its colour, unlike everything else upon the island."

From Bermuda Lord Dundonald sailed down to Barbadoes, where he arrived on the 5th of February.
"The negroes," he said, "who are much more numerous on this island than on any other of the
West Indies, appear to be well fed, and cheery in their dispositions. They live in small wooden
houses resting on clumps of wood or blocks of stone, a mode of construction which enables them,
when tired of or displeased with their locality, to transport them elsewhere. I was told that
a street of stone huts, constructed for their use, is almost abandoned, by reason of the immobility
of such residences. I consider this locomotive propensity a favourable trait in their character.
Behind the barracks we stopped at a hut on the rising ground whereon the barracks ought to
have been placed, and assuredly I never saw a more contented scene. There was a young negro,
and, I believe, his wife, together with an old woman, perhaps the grandmother of the child
she fondled. We made inquiry as to their mode of living, and they showed us green peas, seasoned
with red pepper, ready to be cooked, yams, and cassava bread, as good as oatmeal cakes. These
peas grow on large bushes, and vegetables of all kinds surround their hut."

From Barbadoes Lord Dundonald proceeded by way of Tobago to Trinidad. "On the morning of the
11th of February," he said, "we weighed and returned through the Dragon's Mouth, shaping our
course for the great natural curiosity of Trinidad, the Pitch Lake, which I hoped might be
rendered useful for fuel for our steam-ships--so important in the event of war--as fuel is
only obtained at present from Europe. The United States and Nova Scotia are never resorted
to; hence, could this pitch be rendered applicable as fuel, our vessels would be supplied when
an enemy would be almost deprived of the use of steam in these seas. We arrived at La Brea,
and before daybreak on the following morning we were on the road to the lake, or rather on
a stream of bitumen (now indurated) which in former ages overflowed the lake. Indeed the bitumen
beneath this road seems still to be on the move, as shown by curvilineal ridges on its surface,
like waves receding from a stone thrown into water. The appearance of the lake is most extraordinary.
One vast sheet of bitumen extends until lost amidst luxuriant vegetation. Its circumference
is full three miles, exclusive of the creeks, which double the extent. The bituminous surface
is of a dark brown, waxy consistence, except in one or two places where the fluid still exudes;
obviously this spring is in full vigour beneath, for the whole surface of the lake is formed
into protuberances like the segments of a globe pressed together, having hollows between filled
with rain-water, which (except in the immediate vicinity of the bituminous springs) is inodorous
and without taste--an extraordinary fact, showing that this bitumen is of a nature quite different
from that of pyrotechnic mineral or vegetable tar. In its dry state it is quite insoluble in
water, though when charged with essential oil, as it exudes from nature's laboratory, it imparts
a pungent and unpleasant taste. A considerable quantity of gas bubbles up through these bituminous
springs, showing that decomposition is still active amongst the materials whence it exudes.
Some of the recent bitumen has an odour resembling vegetable gum. Mr. Johnson, the very obliging
proprietor of a neighbouring estate, had the goodness to cause some of his labourers and a
cart to bring samples to the beach. Means of transport, however, were so inadequate, that we
had recourse to digging the more impure pitch on the beach, in order to prosecute our trials
for its substitution as fuel. This bitumen, which had flowed upwards of a mile from the lake,
was combined with earthy and other substances which it had encountered in its course. Various
attempts have heretofore been made to apply the bitumen to useful purposes, but without success,
as we may judge from the total abandonment of those trials and expectations which for a brief
period induced its shipment to England with a view to its application to the pavements of London
and other cities. All excavation has consequently ceased, and so low is the estimation in which
the bitumen is held, that the duty on embarkation is only one halfpenny per ton. The nature
of this bitumen is very different from that of coal. When exposed to a naked fire it becomes
fluid, and runs through the bars before gas is disengaged, or at least before it is raised
to a temperature at which it will ignite; perhaps it requires more or purer air than enters
through the bars of steamboat furnaces--a conjecture which seems to be confirmed by the dense
smoke speedily produced."

"The plains of Trinidad," wrote Lord Dundonald, "have a fertile soil, which, simply by clearing
the ground, is capable of being rendered the most productive in the West India Islands for
the growth of sugar and whatever can be cultivated in a climate most uniform in its temperature,
most congenial to tropical plants, free from the evils of hurricanes and from all impediments
to vegetation. I am confident that, if the hands of the Governor were not bound by restrictions
and routine, the progress of Trinidad would soon verify this opinion. Lord Harris, the present
Governor, nobly tendered a portion of his official income in alleviation of the burthens which
are so severely felt in the present depressed state of agriculture and commerce, but from some
cause his lordship's liberal intention was not realized. The example would have proved salutary,
as it must have been followed by reductions throughout other West India Islands, whose resources
are even in a worse state than those of Trinidad. Is it reasonable, whilst the ground has ceased
to be cultivated because production is unprofitable, not only that the land should continue
to be taxed at the rate it was in prosperous times, but that a duty should be levied on the
exportation of its produce? Is it reasonable that whilst householders can obtain no rent, and
have no income save the bare means of providing a scanty subsistence, they should be assessed
at the rack-rent of former valuation? Can any property be more entitled to protection than
that of the owners of the soil or of the dwellings they inhabit? And yet all these, as appears
by the numerous gazetted sales, are sacrificed to the collection of sums, the bulk of which
is uselessly and prejudicially expended. Whilst the Government of the parent State has alleviated
the burdens on the productive classes, is it just that taxes on food and on all the necessaries
of life should be continued throughout the colonies, and that even their productions should
be intolerably burdened with local imposts, whilst complaints are loud and true of the absence
of all remuneration from the sources which once constituted the prosperity of those now impoverished
and oppressed possessions? The above observations do not apply exclusively to Trinidad, but
to the whole of the islands, which scarcely differ in degree in the causes of ruin which seem
irremediable by any authority except the legislature of the parent State. I am persuaded that
the chief of the Colonial Department at home would endeavour to counteract the causes of widely-spread
and increasing ruin, were he in possession of correct information; but popular representations
of grievances, often embodying misapprehensions as to their true origin, and accompanied by
suggestions of impracticable remedies, are denied or disputed in counterstatements by interested
officials, so that the Colonial Minister is bewildered, and can form no correct judgment from
such conflicting statements. I hold it to be impossible that the monstrous absurdities and
violations of every principle of good government which exist throughout these western colonies
could be tolerated an instant, were their consequences known and believed by those in power,
or were they laid before the British public by any person on whose judgment and opinion they
could rely. Can it be credited that even in the island of Trinidad, not only multitudes of
valuable properties are brought to sale from the inability of their owners to pay the fiscal
demands, but that properties are consigned to the Government auctioneer even for so small an
assessment as three-fourths of a dollar? This is, nevertheless, the fact. The emancipation
of the slaves was a glorious act, but the rescue of these noble possessions from ruin, and
the restoration of prosperity to an integral part of the empire, would redound to the honour
of any one who would successfully advocate the cause of reason and justice, not only on the
principles of equity, but with the less noble view of gain to the parent State, as it is certain
that the consumption of British manufactured articles has fallen off in these colonies to an
extent which has not been counterbalanced by the increase of exports anticipated from the questionable
policy of concession to Brazil, in which I have reason to believe the supply of articles required
for the slave trade constitutes a large proportion."

Reflections of that sort occurred to Lord Dundonald again and again, as, passing round from
Trinidad, he visited all the principal British West India Islands, the last at which he called
on his way back to Halifax being Jamaica. "No doubt," he said, "the generous and noble act
by which, in the reign of his late Majesty, slavery was abolished, produced a prejudicial change
in the economy of the sugar plantations, notwithstanding the large amount awarded to the proprietors,
as the sums so paid were for the most part immediately transferred to mortgagees, leaving the
proprietors in possession of the soil, but without the means of paying the expense of its cultivation
by free labour. This is an evil which time has not remedied, and, of course, in the estimation
of those who are, in consequence, losers, furnishes the pretext for imputing to the black population
a degree of reluctance to labour far exceeding the reality. Those who pay a reasonable price
for work, and are punctual in their payments, do not fail to get as many labourers as they
require. I assert this not from any vague hearsay, but from various unquestionable and authentic
documents, amongst which are the examinations taken by Committees of the House of Assembly
appointed to inquire into the causes and difficulties alleged to exist in the cultivation of
estates. Whilst the poverty of the planters and the destitution of the labouring population
is so universal, it seems most extraordinary on inspecting the Custom House returns to find
almost every article of necessary consumption brought from abroad paying high duties on entry;
whilst the concession of small patches of land to the negroes, whom there is no capital to
employ, would, if accorded, produce food, and in a great measure dispense with such injurious
importations. Is it reasonable to instruct the negroes in their rights as men, and open their
minds to the humble ambition of acquiring spots of land, and then throw every impediment possible
in the way of its gratification? I perceive by the imposts and expenses on the transfer of
small properties, that a barrier almost insurmountable is raised to their acquisition by the
coloured population. I have learnt that small lots of Crown lands are scarcely ever disposed
of, though three-fourths of these lands are still in the hands of Government.

"It is lamentable to see the negroes in rags, lying about the streets of Kingston; to learn
that the gaols are full; the penitentiaries incapable of containing more inmates; whilst the
port is destitute of shipping, the wharves abandoned, and the storehouses empty; while much,
if not all, of this might be remedied. It may be asked, how is this to be effected? and I answer--by
justice, resolution, patriotism, and disinterestedness. Never can this wretched state of affairs
be remedied so long as taxes on the necessaries of life are heaped on an impoverished population.
Never can the peasantry raise their heads with a contented aspect, whilst every animate and
inanimate thing around them is taxed to the utmost. Not only is there a tax on land, and on
the shipment of its produce, on houses, outhouses, and gardens, on horned cattle and horses,
but on asses and pigs; and the severest penalties are enacted for concealment or suppression
in the returns. Officials are employed for the gathering of pittances which do not defray the
expense of collection. The harbour dues and exactions are such that no vessel, when it can
be avoided, is brought into the Port of Kingston; consequently, though Jamaica is admirably
situated, even more favourably than St. Thomas, the former port is abandoned, whilst that of
the latter is filled with the shipping of all nations."

Lord Dundonald detailed the substance of these opinions in a letter to Earl Grey, the Secretary
for the Colonies. "I have to thank your lordship," Lord Grey replied, "for your letter. The
observations of a person of your lordship's knowledge and experience upon the present state
of our colonies are most interesting and useful to me. I am aware that there exists much distress
in the West Indies at present; but I am sorry to say I do not see what Parliament can do towards
removing it, beyond freeing their trade from the remaining restrictions by the repeal of the
Navigation Laws, which I hope will now be soon accomplished. I own I quite differ from your
lordship as to the propriety of restoring to the planters the monopoly in the British market
they formerly enjoyed, and I believe that the permanent interests of these colonies would be
injured instead of being advanced by doing so."

CHAPTER XXIX.

[1851-1853.]

The Earl of Dundonald's time of service as Admiral of the West Indian and North American Stations
expired in April, 1851. On the 31st of December, 1850, Sir Francis Baring wrote to inform him
that Sir George Seymour had been appointed his successor. "It is with some regret," said Sir
Francis, "that I have performed this duty, as it has been my pleasure to have been in communication
with you, and to feel that an important command has been placed in the hands of an officer
of your lordship's high professional character and merits. You must permit me, in making this
announcement, to add my sincere thanks for the manner in which you conducted the duties of
your position, and particularly for the valuable information you have communicated to the Board,
and the attention you have paid to the many points you had brought before you."

On the 14th of May Lord Dundonald left Halifax, and he reached Portsmouth in the beginning
of June. During the next few years his mind was much occupied with the further consideration
of various topics suggested by his observations and explorations on the other side of the Atlantic.
It will be enough to make brief allusion to the most important of these.

Subjects of hearty regret to him, repeatedly brought under his notice during his three years'
stay in the North American and West Indian waters, were the great depression of the British
fisheries in the neighbourhood of Newfoundland, and the yet greater depression of trade consequent
on the remission of slavery in the more southern colonies. For both he sought to provide a
remedy. He urged, as has already been shown in the extracts from his journal, which was published,
and attracted much attention, in the summer of 1852, that special help should be given to these
colonies, not only by the removal of all restrictions upon their commerce and manufactures,
but by protective enactments in their favour.

His reasons for this view, as regards the Newfoundland fisheries, in which he thought not alone
of the interests of the colonists, were set forth by him in a letter addressed to the "Times,"
in August, 1852. "Were not the question of maintaining our nurseries for seamen," he there
said, "more important than commercial considerations, I should not venture, through your favour,
to trespass on public attention regarding the North American fisheries; but, perceiving that
impressions are likely to be made by writers, avoiding responsibility for erroneous opinions
by withholding their names, I feel it a duty explicitly to state that it is not to the amount
of fish caught and cured, to the price at which it can be sold at home or abroad, or to the
number of persons employed in the fishery, but to their nationality and vocation, to which
I attach importance, in order that our fisheries shall form hardy British seamen in oceanic
vessels, like those employed under the bounties paid by North America and France. These being
the considerations, the question is not whether it is consistent with the enlightened theory
of free trade to pay a premium which shall transfer capital from the pockets of one class to
those of another, but whether it is wiser and more economical for the community at large to
uphold such nursery, or to maintain even a skeleton of warlike establishments--perhaps to build,
equip, and employ additional ships of war, squadrons, or fleets, to watch, perchance to contend
with, power thus cheaply developed by rival nations. I ask whether the bounty given to enable
steam-packets to cross the ocean is more consistent with free-trade principles than a bounty
awarded to our fisheries as a nursery for seamen. A colonial premium is indeed talked of, and
by those unacquainted with facts, who do not foresee its operation, it may be deemed a substitute
for a bounty by the parent State; but I advisedly assert that such colonial premium would not
rear one disposable seaman for our naval service, and that even the colonial fishermen would
derive no commensurate advantage, such is the impoverishing effect of the inveterate system
of truck-dealing that boat fishermen, even from the harbour of the capital of Newfoundland,
are chiefly paid by daily wages; the advantages derived from the employment of two half-idle
fishermen being greater to the truckmaster, in the absence of an available market, than the
like amount of fish caught by one customer. It is manifest, by the true theory of free trade,
that it is unimportant whether the French and Americans obtain their bait and catch fish within
our limits or not, or even whether the world is supplied by them or by us; but it is not so
if foreign nations thereby rear, employ, and maintain in time of peace fifty thousand seamen,
who, in the event of war, are at the beck of their respective Governments, while Britain, the
rightful owner, has not one available seaman from the fisheries. On subjects of such vital
importance it is essential that general theories, however good, shall not be supported in detail
by false reasoning, or by captivating appellations inconsistent with truth. Nine-tenths of
our western colonies are still taxed on every article of food, and on all existing property,
animate and inanimate; a state of things alike adverse to production and trade. Is it reasonable
to imagine, if the interests of colonists are not considered jointly with those of the parent
State, that they can continue to administer to our wants, comforts, and luxuries--above all,
to our commercial nursery for seamen, the source of our national greatness? A Parliamentary
investigation is indispensable to afford a chance of escape to these noble possessions of the
Crown from impending ruin."

For the relief of the West Indian colonies Lord Dundonald was also anxious to obtain the intervention
of Parliament; but he believed that he had himself discovered one source of possible advancement
for them. His remarks concerning the pitch lake of Trinidad have already been partly quoted.
Having first explored that lake in the beginning of 1849, he at once recognized the importance
of its stores of bitumen, and much of his leisure from official duties was employed in observations
and experiments with a view to its being utilized. He was soon convinced as to its great and
various importance. The decomposed bitumen that lay in vast beds around the lake he found exceedingly
valuable as a manure; and he perceived that the liquid mass, of which boundless supplies might
be obtained, could be put to many very valuable uses. Here he discerned the presence of a new
material of commerce which might prove of incalculable benefit not only to Trinidad but also
to all the other West India Islands; therefore he urged its employment, and, though but little
heed was paid to his advice, the successful results of the few cases in which it was adopted
fully justified his opinions.

After his return to England he also sought zealously to make his discovery beneficial to himself.
He was to a great extent baffled by the obstacles common to new projects; but his projects
afford curious illustration of the activity of his mind and the fertility of his inventive
powers. "Used as a mastic," he said in a concise enumeration of the uses to which he found
that the bitumen might be put, "it is peculiarly suited to unite and ensure the durability
of hydraulic works. It renders the foundations and superstructure of buildings impermeable
to humidity. It is admirably adapted, by its resistance to decomposition by the most powerful
solvents, to the construction of sewers, and, being tasteless, it is an excellent coating to
water-pipes, aqueducts, and reservoirs. When masticated and prepared, it is a substitute for
costly gums as applied to numerous purposes. Combined with a small portion of ligneous matter,
it constitutes a fuel of greater evaporating power than coal, and, when pulverized and scattered
over growing potato-plants or other vegetables, it prevents their destruction by insects or
blight, and acts also as a fertiliser of the soil. Essential and viscid oils are obtained by
various well-known processes from bituminous substances, but from none in such abundance and
possessing such valuable properties as the oils extracted from the bitumen of the lake of Trinidad,
as well as from the petroleum of springs still in activity."[23]

  [23] The following patents, for the use of the Trinidad bitumen, were
  taken out by Lord Dundonald:--1851. "Improvements in the construction
  and manufacture of sewers, drains, waterways, pipes, reservoirs, and
  receptacles for liquids or solids, and for the making of columns,
  pillars, capitals, pedestals, bases, and other useful and ornamental
  objects, from a substance never heretofore employed for such
  manufactures."--1852. "Improvements in coating and insulating
  wire."--1852. "Improving bituminous substances, thereby rendering them
  available for purposes to which they never heretofore have been
  successfully applied."--1853. "Improvements in producing compositions
  or combinations of bituminous, resinous, and gummy matters, and thereby
  obtaining products useful in the arts and manufactures."--1853.
  "Improvements in apparatus for laying pipes in the earth, and in the
  juncture of such pipes."

  The "Observations on the long-desired, yet still unaccomplished
  proceeding, whereby to effect the embankment of the Thames and free
  the river from pollution," by the Earl of Dundonald, are especially
  interesting at the present time:--"It will probably be admitted that
  the Thames above bridge is unnecessarily broad, unless considered as a
  recipient for back-water; and that the long margin of shallow water
  between London Bridge and that of Vauxhall is of little importance,
  even for that purpose, as gravel, sand, and other substances, may
  advantageously be removed from the central bed of the river, fully to
  compensate for the water that would be excluded by an embankment of
  one-sixth on both sides of the channel.

  "An easy method of accomplishing this object would be to cut a ditch
  on each shore, equidistant from the centre, and fill it with
  bituminous concrete, as the foundation of a parapet or wharf to be
  formed of similar materials. Within this a main sewer might be
  excavated, and constructed in like manner of conglomerated gravel and
  sand from the spot.

  "It will of course occur that, although roads may be carried over the
  entrances of the various docks by swing-bridges, yet these entrances
  present obstacles to a direct line of sewers.

  "To enable this difficulty to be overcome, very solid tunnels, floored
  with hard pavement stones, set in bitumen, may be caused to descend in
  subverted curves below the entrances of the docks, whence all matters
  deposited may occasionally be removed by see-saw locomotive dredges on
  wheels, worked either by mechanical power, or by the current acting
  directly on the dredge."

While thus urging the importance of bitumen, and initiating many mechanical operations which
have quickly and extensively been turned to the great advantage of society, Lord Dundonald
was not unmindful of his older inventions and the arguments by which he had long sought to
promote the naval strength of England. Of these inventions one in particular--that of his improved
steam-boilers--had been largely adopted, and found highly beneficial during his absence from
England, and its use continued after his return. From them he hoped, and not in vain, that
good would result to the general extension of naval science. He was cheered during the last
years of his life by seeing the adoption of many of the views on these matters which he had
advocated long before. Others have yet to be enforced.

CHAPTER XXX.

[1851-1860.]

When in June, 1851, he returned to England and surrendered his office as Commander-in-Chief
of the North American and West Indian squadron, the Earl of Dundonald was in his seventy-sixth
year. That he was still young and vigorous in mind is sufficiently shown by the illustrations
of his inventive genius and philanthropic earnestness that have been given in the last chapter.
The most striking proof of this, however, so far as he was allowed to prove it, has yet to
be given.

Very soon after his return he sought to impress upon Sir James Graham, then First Lord of the
Admiralty, under the Earl of Aberdeen's administration, the value of his secret war-plans,
and before long a special reason for advocating their adoption arose. Their efficacy had been
frequently acknowledged by the highest authorities, but as England was at peace, nothing more
than an acknowledgment was made. The outbreak of our war with Russia induced Lord Dundonald
to bring them forward again in 1853. At first Sir James Graham declined to entertain the subject.
The Government believed that Russia would be easily and promptly defeated by the ordinary means
of warfare, and therefore contented itself with them. In this decision Lord Dundonald acquiesced
perforce; but, on its appearing that the fight would be harder than had been anticipated, he
again claimed a hearing for his proposals, believing that by their acceptance he could not
only bring his own career as a British seaman to a glorious termination, but also--a yet dearer
object to him--by so doing render inestimable service to his country.

In this spirit he wrote again to Sir James Graham on the 22nd of July, 1854. "Important aggressive
enterprises," he said, "being now suspended by Russia, whose armies, on the defensive, may
indefinitely prolong the war, and thereby expose our country to perilous consequences, resulting
from protracted naval co-operation, I am desirous, through you, respectfully to offer for the
consideration of her Majesty's Cabinet Ministers a simple yet effective plan of operations,
showing that the maritime defences of Cronstadt, however strong against ordinary means of attack,
may be captured, and their red-hot shot and incendiary missiles, prepared for the destruction
of our ships, turned on those they protect; a result of paramount importance, now that the
forces in the Black Sea have been diverted from the judiciously-contemplated attack on Sebastopol,
compared to the success of which any secondary enterprise in the Baltic would prove of very
small importance to the successful result of the war. Permit me, therefore, in the event of
my plans being approved, unreservedly to offer my services, without command or authority, except
over the very limited means of attack, the success whereof cannot fail in its consequences
to free and ensure, perhaps for ever, all minor states from Russian dominion. Personal acquaintance
with Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Napier and Rear-Admiral Chads warrants my conviction that no
feeling of rivalry could exist, save in the zealous performance of the service."

Sir James Graham's reply was complimentary. "You offer for the consideration of her Majesty's
Government," he wrote on the 26th of July, "a plan of operations by which the maritime defences
of Cronstadt may, in your opinion, be captured; and in the most handsome manner you declare
your readiness to direct and superintend the execution of your plan, if it should be adopted.
When the great interests at stake are considered, and when the fatal effects of a possible
failure are duly regarded, it is apparent that the merits of your plan and the chances of success
must be fully investigated and weighed by competent authority. The Cabinet, unaided, can form
no judgment in this matter, and the tender of your services is most properly made by you dependent
on the previous approval of your plan. The question is a naval one, into which professional
considerations must enter largely. Naval officers, therefore, of experience and high character
are the judges to whom, in the first instance, this question ought to be submitted. Let me
therefore ask you, before I take any further step, whether you are willing, in strict confidence,
to lay your whole plan before Sir Bryan Martin, Sir William Parker, and Admiral Berkeley, who,
from his place at this Board, is my first naval adviser? If you do not object to this measure,
or to any of the naval officers whom I have named, I should be disposed to add Sir John Burgoyne,
the head of the Engineers, on whose judgment I place great reliance. I am sure that you will
not regard this mode of treating your proposal as inconsistent with the respect which I sincerely
entertain for your high professional character, resting on past services of no ordinary merit,
which I have never failed to recognise. But my duty on this occasion prescribes caution and
deliberate care; and you will do justice to the motives by which this answer to your request
is guided."

To this suggestion Lord Dundonald readily acceded, and his secret war-plans were once more
referred to a committee of investigation. Nothing, however, was gained by this step. "I have
received," wrote Sir James Graham on the 15th of August, "the report of the committee of officers
to whom, with your consent, the plan for the attack on Cronstadt was submitted. On the whole,
after careful consideration, they have come to the unanimous conclusion that it is inexpedient
to try experiments in present circumstances. They do full justice to your lordship, and they
expressly state that, if such an enterprise were to be undertaken, it could not be confided
to fitter or abler hands than yours; for your professional career has been distinguished by
remarkable instances of skill and courage, in all of which you have been the foremost to lead
the way, and by your personal heroism you have gained an honourable celebrity in the naval
history of this country."

That letter was disappointing to Lord Dundonald; but, as the value of his plans was not disputed,
he hoped that he might yet be allowed to put them in execution. "Be pleased," he said in his
reply to Sir James Graham, "to accept the sincere assurance of the high estimation in which
I hold the kind and favourable expression of your sentiments towards me. It is indeed gratifying
to perceive that the experienced admirals to whom you referred the professional consideration
of my secret plan have not expressed any doubt of its practicability."

The report of the admirals, however, had as unfavourable an effect as could have resulted had
they declared openly against the project. Week followed week without any successful issue to
the efforts of the Baltic fleet; and added to Lord Dundonald's chagrin at not being permitted
to achieve the desired success, was his distress at finding unmerited blame thrown by the Government,
and by nearly all classes of the public, upon a brave and skilful seaman, for not doing what,
with the means at his disposal, it was impossible for him to do. Admiral Sir Charles Napier
had failed, through no fault of his own, in the project for attacking Cronstadt, a fortress
of almost unrivalled strength, and, by reason of the shallow water surrounding it, unapproachable
by the heavy line-of-battle ships and frigates which constituted all his force; and during
the months of his necessary inactivity, and after his return to England, Lord Dundonald was
almost his only defender. "In justice to Admiral Napier, against whom 'the indignant dissatisfaction
of the nation' is said to be directed," he wrote in a letter to the "Morning Post," on the
21st of September, "permit me to say that success could not have attended the operations of
ships against stone batteries firing red-hot shot, however easily unresisting walls may be
leisurely demolished. There is but one means to place these parties on an equal footing, and
that I confidentially laid before the Government."

"The unreasoning portion of the public," he wrote to Sir James Graham on the 11th of November,
"have made an outcry against old admirals, as if it were essential that they should be able
to clear their way with a broadsword. But, my dear Sir James, were it necessary--which it is
not--that I should place myself in an arm-chair on the poop, with each leg on a cushion, I
will undertake to subdue every insular fortification at Cronstadt within four hours from the
commencement of the attack." And Sebastopol, he urged, could be as easily captured, if he were
only allowed to put his plans in operation. But it was not allowed. "Nothing new can be attempted
at the present moment," answered Sir James Graham. "Winter will put an end to all active operations
in the Baltic; and I still venture to hope that at Sebastopol our arms will be triumphant."

Lord Dundonald, though pained, not so much on his own account as in the interests of the nation,
at the way in which his offers were treated, persevered in making them. It was now too late
in the season to effect anything in the Baltic; but the siege of Sebastopol was being carried
on without any immediate prospect of success; and he yearned, with all the ardour that he had
displayed half a century before, for an opportunity of rendering success both certain and immediate.

To this end he wrote again to Sir James Graham, and also for the first time to the Earl of
Aberdeen, on the 30th of December. "The pertinacious resistance made at Sebastopol, and the
possibility of events that may still further disappoint expectation," he said to Sir James,
"have induced me to address Lord Aberdeen, saying that 'if it is the opinion of the Cabinet,
or of those whom they consult on military affairs, that, failing the early capture of Sebastopol,
the British army may be in danger, I offer to the discernment of the Cabinet my still secret
plans of attack,' whereby the garrisons would be expelled from the forts or annihilated, in
defiance of numerical force, and possession obtained, at least during sufficient time to enable
the chief defences to be blown up and the harbour fleet to be destroyed. If you will so far
favour me, I should be gratified by having an opportunity of demonstrating to your strong mind,
free from professional bias, the fact that combustible ships may be not only placed on a parity
with stone forts fitted to fire red-hot shot, but secured from injury more effectually than
if incased in iron."

Sir James Graham's answer was, like its forerunners, complimentary, but nothing more. "I can
never cease," he wrote, "to do justice to your patriotic desire to serve your country, which
is evinced by your desire to encounter, in your own person, the dangers attendant on your experiment,
and not to transfer the hazard of the enterprise to others." But to the enterprise itself he
would give no sanction. "Your plans," he said, "by my desire were submitted to the consideration
of most competent naval and military officers, whose impartial judgment cannot be impugned,
and, on the whole, they did not recommend the trial of the experiment which you are anxious
to make. Neither Lord Aberdeen nor I can venture to place our individual opinions in opposition
to a recorded judgment of the highest authority on a question which is purely professional.
I see no advantage, therefore, in renewing the discussion with you at the present moment."

Had the "impartial judgment" by which Sir James Graham held himself bound been adverse to the
principle of Lord Dundonald's plans, or declared them to be anything more than "inexpedient
in present circumstances," more weight might have been attached to it; although even then he
could have pointed to the opposite verdict, given in 1847, by other judges quite as impartial
and competent, who, while objecting to part of them on the score of their deadly efficacy,
had officially announced their belief in the applicability of another part--the part of which
Lord Dundonald now proposed to make most use--and recommended its adoption "when the opportunity
of employing it may occur."

He therefore refused to be thwarted in his efforts to render to his country the great service
that he considered to be in his power, and Sir Charles Napier's removal from the command of
the Baltic fleet, in January, 1855, gave him an opportunity of offering to use that power under
conditions that would relieve the Admiralty of all direct responsibility in the event of his
failure. "I am much gratified," he said in another letter to Sir James Graham, "to learn that
her most gracious Majesty has been pleased to reserve the high dignity of Admiral of the Fleet
as a reward for services. Under this impression, permit me to solicit the favour of being allowed
to contend for that distinction, not by reference again to opinions, which may prove fallacious,
but by actual experimental proof of the safety and facility of assailing fortifications by
my secret plans. By them, the damage and loss of life sustained by the allied squadron in their
late attack on the fortifications of Sebastopol might have been partly if not wholly averted,
and probably a tenfold destruction inflicted on the enemy. If this is admitted--and I do not
think it can be disputed--I hope you will allow me to demonstrate the general applicability
of these simple, comparatively costless, and in my opinion infallible means of annihilating
the power of all kinds of batteries that can be approached to windward within half a mile.
These plans have been entertained and pondered over by me during forty years, and now again
I offer to explain, to test, and to put them in execution."

Sir James Graham's answer was very terse. "I have had the honour," he wrote on the 23rd of
January, "of receiving your lordship's letter, in which you tender your services to take command
of the Baltic Fleet. I consider the tender highly honourable to you; but I cannot give any
other assurance."

No other assurance would have been of any avail. The Earl of Aberdeen's Cabinet, having lost
the confidence of the country, was dissolved almost immediately after that letter was written,
to be replaced by an Administration in which Lord Palmerston was Premier, and Sir Charles Wood
First Lord of the Admiralty.

To Lord Palmerston the Earl of Dundonald wrote on the 13th of February. "The high position
of our country being at stake on the result of the war," he said, "and our long-established
naval renown pledged on the successful conduct of affairs in the Baltic, I addressed my kind
friend Lord Lansdowne, who has been long conversant with the objects which, by his advice,
I now offer to your lordship's notice as First Minister of the Crown, conjointly, if you judge
proper, with that of the Cabinet over which you preside." He then briefly described the principle
of his secret plan, adding, "I respectfully offer to execute this plan, and answer for its
success, against Cronstadt, and against all minor strongholds in the Baltic."

Four weeks elapsed before that letter was answered. In the meanwhile Lord Dundonald, beginning
to despair of a satisfactory hearing from any Minister of State, unless he was induced thereto
by a popular demand, addressed a petition to the House of Commons, urging the importance of
his plans, and praying for "a searching inquiry, to ascertain whether the aforesaid secret
plans are capable speedily, certainly, and cheaply to surmount obstacles which our gallant,
persevering, and costly armies and fleets have failed to accomplish." His reasons for so doing
he explained in a letter addressed to the "Times" on the 10th of March.

"Peace," he there said, "being desirable not only for the interests of our country, but for
those of the world at large, and the negotiations now pending being doubtless injuriously influenced
by the obstinate resistance of Sebastopol (which could be overcome in a day), and by the impossibility
of successfully attacking Cronstadt by naval means (which might be as speedily reduced), I
have drawn up a petition to Parliament in order that secrecy and silence on my part, and deficiency
of information on that of the public, may no longer prove injurious to the success of our arms.
Hostilities having proceeded so far, assuredly it is more expedient to reduce a restless nation
to a third- or fourth-rate power, than be ourselves reduced. Let not my motive be mistaken.
I have no wish to command a fleet of 100-gun ships, or to attack first-rate fortresses by incased
batteries or steam gunboats. That which I desire is, first, secretly to demonstrate to competent
persons the efficiency of my plans, and then to obtain authority, during eight or ten days
of fine weather, to put them in execution. The means I contemplate are simple, cheap, and safe.
They would spare thousands of lives, millions of money, great havoc and uncertainty of results.
Their consequences might, and probably would, effect the emancipation of Poland, and give freedom
to the usurped territories of Sweden. Those who judge unfavourably of all aged naval commanders
assuredly do not reflect that the useful employment of the energies of thousands and tens of
thousands of men can best be developed and directed by a mind instructed by long observation
matured by reflection;--an advantage to which physical power, that could clear its way by a
broadsword, can bear no comparison. My unsupported opinion in regard to a naval enterprise
in 1809 proved to be correct. Every other undertaking in the British service, and as Commander-in-Chief
in Chili, Peru, Brazil, and Greece, was successful, and so would the protracted and unaccomplished
undertaking, so injurious to the result of negotiation, have succeeded, had I possessed sufficient
influence to be patiently listened to."

The petition aroused much interest among the public, but was unheeded by the House of Commons,
and therefore produced very slight effect on the Ministry. "My published petition," wrote Lord
Dundonald to Viscount Palmerston on the 17th of March, "has brought me numerous letters, and,
amongst others, a communication, I believe from high authority, that if I do know any means
whereby to spare the slaughter that must take place on storming Sebastopol, I ought to make
it known. I wish I could impart to your lordship what I feel under the present circumstances,
and how anxiously I desire that a speedy decision may succeed the lingering delays that I have
so long endured."

A few days after that, chiefly through the assistance of his friend Lord Brougham, Lord Dundonald
obtained an interview with Lord Palmerston, at which he further detailed his plans, and urged
that they should be promptly employed in hastening a conclusion of the war with Russia. To
Lord Palmerston he also wrote again on the 31st of March. "It has occurred to me," he said,
"that the supposed inhumanity of my plans may have caused the use of the word 'inexpedient'
in the report of the commission appointed in July last by the Admiralty, and may even now influence
the decision of the Cabinet. Perhaps another view may have been taken of the consequences of
divulging my plans, as regards the security of this kingdom." To these possible objections
he urged that no conduct that brought to a speedy termination a war which might otherwise last
for years, and be attended by terrible bloodshed in numerous battles, could be called inhuman;
and that the most powerful means of averting invasion, and, indeed, all future war, would be
the introduction of a method of fighting which, rendering all vigorous defence impossible,
would frighten every nation from running the risks of warfare at all.

Those arguments appear to have had some weight; but, after further correspondence, Lord Palmerston's
Government, like all the other Governments to which they had been offered, refused to put the
plans in execution. Further evidence in their favour was obtained from some eminent scientific
men; and it was put beyond dispute that, though they might not have such deadly efficacy as
Lord Dundonald anticipated--on which point the critics spoke with hesitation--they could not
fail, if properly applied, in producing very important results. But it was all in vain. All
that Lord Palmerston would agree to was to have the experiment tried on a small scale at Sebastopol,
and by two Engineer officers who were to be instructed in their work by Lord Dundonald. Lord
Dundonald consented to the trial, if it was conducted by his son, Captain the Honourable Arthur
Cochrane, R.N. But this was not agreed to, and the whole project fell to the ground.

At that result Lord Dundonald was hardly more disappointed than was a large section of the
English public. Friends and strangers, soldiers, sailors, newspaper writers, and merchants,
wrote to him from London, Edinburgh, Liverpool, Birmingham, Belfast, and all other parts of
the kingdom, urging that, if the enterprise was not undertaken by Government, it should be
executed by means of a private subscription. "I am perfectly convinced," wrote one, "that you
can do all the injury to the Russian fortifications that you say you can do. If miserable jealousy
at the Admiralty refuses you the means, take them from those who, like myself, are very proud
to be your countrymen. I am not a rich man, but I shall gladly subscribe one hundred pounds
to any scheme that you will propose and carry out yourself." "If your lordship will appeal
to the country," wrote another, "in less than a week you will receive subscriptions to any
amount. You will then be independent of Government routine, and the public will, without further
delay, have an opportunity of testing the value of your invention, towards which the eyes of
all Europe are anxiously turned at the present juncture."

Those suggestions, and the evidence afforded by them of a widespread sympathy in his efforts
to render a last great service to his country, afforded real satisfaction to Lord Dundonald;
but their adoption was quite impossible. As a British officer, he could not for a moment think
of entering upon a warlike project independently of the State. Therefore he left the work on
which his heart was set undone, and soon--though by no means so soon as he could have made
it--the Russian war was brought to a conclusion.

Whatever may have been the cause of the rejection of his offer to hasten that conclusion by
means of his secret war-plans, the Earl of Dundonald experienced no lack of personal courtesy
during the period of the correspondence, or throughout the brief remainder of his life. His
closing years were cheered by many acts by which was nearly completed the tardy reparation
for former injuries which was begun with his reinstatement in the navy by King William IV.,
and in which the most gratifying circumstance of all was the restoration of his honours as
a Knight of the Bath by her gracious Majesty Queen Victoria.

"The death of Sir Byam Martin, and the promotion of Sir William Gage to the office of Vice-Admiral
of the United Kingdom," wrote Sir James Graham on the 23rd of October, 1854, "vacate the appointment
of Rear-Admiral. It is an honorary distinction; and your standing in the naval service and
your gallant achievements entitle you to this reward. I have taken her Majesty's pleasure,
and the Queen has graciously approved my recommendation. I propose, therefore, with your lordship's
permission, that you shall be gazetted Rear-Admiral of the United Kingdom." "I accept the proposed
honour with gratitude to her Majesty and with thanks to you," answered Lord Dundonald, on the
24th. "Permit me, however, to express a hope that such distinction shall not preclude my further
service to the Crown and country, which long and matured consideration on professional subjects
assures me I could now perform even more effectually than at an earlier period."

A month later he was honoured by a compliment from one who, kind and gracious in all his acts,
had never failed in showing towards him special grace and kindness. "My dear lord," wrote Prince
Albert on the 26th of November, "a vacancy has occurred in the list of Honorary Brethren of
the Trinity House, by the lamented death of Sir Byam Martin. It has always been customary in
that corporation to have the Royal Navy represented amongst the Elder Brethren by one of its
most distinguished officers. I therefore write to inquire whether it would be agreeable to
you to be elected a member of that body; as I should, in that case, have much pleasure in proposing,
as Master of the Corporation, your name for the election of the Elder Brethren. Believe me
always, my dear lord, yours truly,--Albert."

"May it please your Royal Highness," Lord Dundonald wrote in reply, on the 27th, "to accept
my dutiful and most grateful thanks for the honour your Royal Highness is pleased to confer.
I assure your Royal Highness that I shall ever look forward with anxiety to prove my devotion
and gratitude to her most gracious Majesty, for signal acts of justice and favour, and to your
Royal Highness for this highly-appreciated mark of your consideration."

A token of the estimation in which Lord Dundonald was at length held by all classes of his
countrymen may here be recorded. After frequent refusal, on the ground of his age and love
of privacy, he consented, in May, 1856, to seek admission to the United Service Club. Its members,
thereupon, at once resolved, at the proposal of Vice-Admiral Sir George F. Seymour, which was
seconded by Lieutenant-General Sir C. F. Smith, "to invite that highly-distinguished officer,
Admiral the Earl of Dundonald, to become an honorary member of the Club, until the time of
his lordship's ballot takes place."

In spite of compliments like these, however, it was his earnest desire that, before his life
was ended, every shadow which had darkened it might be cleared away, and that he might not
pass into the grave without the assurance that he was formally, and in every respect, acquitted
of the unjust charges brought against him nearly half a century before. While one single consequence
of those charges remained in force, he considered that he was not so acquitted, and with this
object he laboured to the last.

"I venture to remind your lordship," he wrote to Lord Palmerston, on the 26th of May, "that
the undeviating rectitude of my conduct through a long life has already induced the Crown,
in the exercise of its justice, to restore my rank and honours. There yet remains, my dear
lord, a gracious and important act to perform, namely, to order my banner to be replaced in
King Henry VII.'s Chapel, and to direct the repayment of the fine inflicted by the Court of
King's Bench, and the restoration of my half-pay suspended during my removal from the naval
service. Unless these be done, I shall descend to my grave with the consciousness, not only
that justice has not fully been done to me, but under the painful conviction that its omission
will be construed to the injury of my character in the estimation of posterity. Independently
of the justice of this claim on its own merits, I venture to express a hope that your lordship
will admit that, during my temporary absence from the naval service, my exertions tended materially
to promote the interests of our country by opening to commerce the ports of the Pacific and
those of all the northern provinces of Brazil."

The appeal was unsuccessful. The part of it having reference to the replacement of Lord Dundonald's
banner in Westminster Abbey was considered by Lord Palmerston to be a question with which it
was not in his province to deal. "With regard to the fine," he said, "I am afraid that there
are no funds out of which it could be repaid, and I should doubt there being any precedent
for such a proceeding; and I find, on inquiry, that pay or half-pay has not been granted to
any naval officer for any period during which he may have been out of the service." That reply
induced Lord Dundonald to write again to Lord Palmerston on the 7th of June. "I submit," he
then said, "that, the fine being imposed for an alleged offence of which I was wholly innocent,
it ought to be repaid, even if there be no special fund appropriated to such a purpose. The
peculiarity of my case may account for there being no precedent for such a proceeding, if none
there be. The same peculiarity may distinguish my case from that of all other naval officers
to whom no pay or half-pay has been allowed for any period during which they may have been
out of the service. I may have been the only naval officer unjustly expelled, and assuredly
I have been the only one so expelled after manifesting, by various acts, a truly patriotic
zeal for the honour and interest of our country. No other naval officer, after such acts, was
ever expelled the service and otherwise punished on mere conjectural evidence, since demonstrated
to have been utterly groundless. I submit that instances have occurred of military officers
recovering pay or half-pay after unjust expulsion, as in the case of Sir Robert Wilson; and
I am not aware of the existence of any cause for a distinction in this respect between the
two services. I feel the deepest gratitude and satisfaction that my life has been spared to
a period when I may reasonably hope that the portion of justice yet due to me for the erroneous
verdict and its injurious consequences will not be withheld. Of that justice, the first instalment,
namely, the restoration of my naval rank, was granted by his late Majesty King William, and
the second by her present most gracious Majesty, who, on the representation of my noble friend
the Marquess of Lansdowne, was pleased to reinstate me in the Order of the Bath. For the third
and conclusive portion of justice still remaining due to me, I cannot desist from looking to
your lordship."

It is not necessary to detail the later correspondence that ensued
upon this subject. Lord Dundonald found that the final reparation
which he sought was not, then at any rate, to be conceded to him by
the Government; and therefore he resolved to employ his last remaining
powers in seeking from his countrymen that thorough justice which he
rightly considered would result from an honest review of the incidents
of his life. I am directed further to say that it
  would add materially to that value if you would have the kindness to
  write in the first page of the accompanying volume that it was
  presented by your lordship to the Prince. I have the honour to be, my
  lord, your most obedient humble servant,--C. B. Phipps."

  [25] Almost the last letter written by Lord Dundonald was this to Lord
  Brougham:--"My dear Lord Brougham,--I have the pleasure to forward you
  the second volume of my 'Autobiography,' in which you will find that
  use has been made of the kind expressions towards myself contained in
  your works. Of the injustice done to me I need not tell you, who are
  so well acquainted with the subject. If the accompanying volume
  succeeds in impressing on the public mind the sentiments so
  unflinchingly set forth in your works, it will have answered its
  purpose; and that it will do so I see no reason to doubt, now that the
  subject can be canvassed apart from political rancour. I am, my dear
  Lord Brougham, ever faithfully yours,--Dundonald." Lord Brougham's
  answer was dated from Paris, on the 31st of October, the very day of
  his friend's death. "I have just received your very kind letter, and I
  daresay the volume will very speedily reach me.... One thing I fear
  you do not come down late enough to relate. I mean the impression made
  upon all present when I took you to the Tuileries; and when the name
  of Cochrane, so well known to them (and which I cannot bring myself to
  change for your present title), was no sooner heard than there was a
  general start and shudder. I remember saying, as we drove away, that
  it ought to satisfy you as to your disappointment at Basque Roads; and
  you answered that you would rather have had the ships."

That his mind was full of vigour to the last is best proved by that autobiography. But the
body was worn out. After two years of great physical suffering, passed in the house of his
eldest son at Queen's Gate, Kensington, he died on the 31st of October, 1860, eighty-five years
old.

He was buried in Westminster Abbey, where in his last moments he had expressed a desire to
rest, in company with other great servants of the nation. A public funeral was not granted
to him; but his son was permitted to conduct that funeral in a way worthy of his great reputation,
and agreeable to the wishes of all classes of his countrymen. Through the personal intervention
of her most gracious Majesty and the Prince Consort, moreover, who counteracted the efforts
of subordinates, his insignia of the Order of the Bath, which had been ignominiously spurned
from King Henry the Seventh's chapel, one-and-fifty years before, were restored to their place
on the 13th of November. Thus his last and most cherished wish was fulfilled, and another precious
boon was added to the many favours for which his family can never cease to be grateful to their
Sovereign and her noble husband.

The burial was on the 14th of November. The pall-bearers were Admiral Sir George Seymour, the
Brazilian Minister, Admiral Grenfell--who five-and-thirty years before had been associated
with Lord Dundonald in securing the independence of Brazil--Captain Goldsmith, Captain Schomberg,
Captain Hay, and Captain Nolloth. Among the mourners was Lord Brougham, who had come from Paris
to render this last honour to one who had been his friend through fifty years. Standing over
the grave, and looking round upon the assemblage, he exclaimed, "No Cabinet minister here!
no officer of State to grace this great man's funeral!" But the funeral was graced by the reverent
homage of hundreds gathered within the Abbey walls, and of the thousands who, though absent,
acknowledged that England had lost one of her bravest warriors and most unselfish patriots,
one whose warfare had been marked by acts of daring rarely equalled, and whose patriotism had
brought upon him sufferings such as few in modern times have had to endure. The solemn anthem
chanted over his grave, "His body is buried in peace, but his memory shall live for ever,"
echoed far and wide, and awakened in every breast keen sentiments of sympathy for what he had
borne and of pride in what he had done.

  Ashes to Ashes! Lay the hero down
    Within the grey old Abbey's glorious shade.
    In our Walhalla ne'er was worthier laid
  Since martyr first won palm, or victor crown.

  'Tis well the State he served no farthing pays
    To grace with pomp and honour all too late
    His grave, whom, living, Statesmen dogged with hate,
  Denying justice, and withholding praise.

  Let England hide her face above his tomb,
    As much for shame as sorrow. Let her think
    Upon the bitter cup he had to drink--
  Heroic soul, branded with felon's doom.

  A Sea-King, whose fit place had been by Blake,
    Or our own Nelson, had he been but free
    To follow glory's quest upon the sea,
  Leading the conquered navies in his wake--

  A Captain, whom it had been ours to cheer
    From conquest on to conquest, had our land
    But set its wisest, worthiest in command,
  Not such as hated all the good revere.

  We let them cage the Lion while the fire
    In his high heart burnt clear and unsubdued;
    We let them stir that frank and forward mood
  From greatness to the self-consuming ire,

  The fret and chafe that wait on service scorned,
    Justice denied, and truth to silence driven;
    From men we left him to appeal to Heaven,
  'Gainst fraud set high, and evidence suborned--

  We left him, with bound arms, to mark the sword
    Given to weak hands; left him, with working brain,
    To see rogues traffic, and fools rashly reign,
  Where Strength should have been guide, and Honour lord--

  Left him to cry aloud, without support,
    Against the creeping things that eat away
    Our wooden walls, and boast as they betray,
  The base supporters of a baser Court,

  The crawling worms that in corruption breed,
    And on corruption batten, till at last
    Mistaken honour the proud victim cast
  Out to their spite, to writhe, and pant, and bleed

  Under their stings and slime; and bleed he did
    For years, till hope into heart-sickness grew,
    And he sought other seas and service new,
  And his bright sword in alien laurels hid--

  Nor even so found gratitude, but came
    Back to his England, bankrupt, save of praise,
    To eat his heart, through weary wishful days,
  And shape his strength to bearing of his shame,

  Till, slow but sure, drew on a better time,
    And Statesmen owned the check of public will;
    And, at the last, light pierced the shadow chill
  That fouled his honour with the taint of crime.

  And then they gave him back the knightly spurs
    Which he had never forfeited--the rank
    From which he ne'er by ill-deserving sank,
  More than the Lion sinks for yelp of curs.

  Justice had lingered on its road too long:
    The Lion was grown old; the time gone by,
    When for his aid we vainly raised a cry,
  To save our flag from shame, our decks from wrong.

  The infamy is theirs, whose evil deed
    Is past undoing; yet not guiltless we,
    Who, penniless, that brave old man could see,
  Restored to honour, but denied its meed.

  A Belisarius, old and sad and poor,
    To our shame, not to his--so he lived on,
    Till man's allotted fourscore years were gone,
  And scarcely then had leave to 'stablish sure

  Proofs of his innocence, and their shame,
    That had so wronged him; and, this done, came death,
    To seal the assurance of his dying breath,
  And wipe the last faint tarnish from his name.

  At last his fame stands fair, and full of years
    He seeks that judgment which his wrongers all
    Have sought before him--and above his pall
  His flag, replaced at length, waves with his peers.

  He did not live to see it, but he knew
    His country with one voice had set it high;
    And knowing this he was content to die,
  And leave to gracious Heaven what might ensue.

  Ashes to ashes! Lay the hero down,
    No nobler heart e'er knew the bitter lot
    To be misjudged, maligned, accused, forgot--
  Twine martyr's palm among his victor's crown.[26]

  [26] These lines, by Mr. Tom Taylor, were published in "Punch."

"Victor and Martyr." Those are the words fittest to be inscribed on the monument that will
be set up in the hearts of Englishmen in honour of the Earl of Dundonald. Entering life with
great powers of mind and great physical endowments for his only fortune, he made his name famous,
and won immortal honour to himself by daring and successful enterprises in the naval service
of his country, which none have surpassed at an age so young as his, and which few have rivalled
during a long life-time spent in war. But he sought to follow up those triumphs of his prowess
on the sea by peaceful victories at home over private jealousy, official intrigue, and political
wrong-doing, and thereby he brought on himself opposition which, boldly resented, caused the
unjust forfeiture of the rewards that were his due, and weighed him down with a terrible load
of disappointed hope and undeserved reproach. Seeking relief from these grievous sufferings,
and opportunity of further work in a profession very dear to him and in generous aid of nations
striving to throw off the tyranny to which they had long been subjected, he entered the service
of three foreign states in succession. But in helping others he only brought fresh trouble
on himself. He rescued Chili and Peru from Spanish thraldom, only to find that the people whom
he had freed therefrom were themselves enthralled by passions which even he could do nothing
to overcome, and which drove him from their shores, barely thanked and quite unrecompensed.
He fought the battles of the young empire of Brazil against Portugal, doubled her territories,
and more than doubled her opportunities of future development, only to be cruelly spurned by
the faction then in power, and denied the fulfilment of national pledges which a later generation
has but tardily and slightly regarded. Harder yet was his treatment by the Greeks, who, having
asked him to lead them in their contest with their Turkish masters, refused to follow his leadership,
gave him no assistance in his plans for fighting on their behalf, and, in return for the services
which, in spite of all the difficulties in his way, he was able to render them, offered him
little but insult. Thus more than half his life was wasted--wasted as far as he himself was
concerned, though the gain to others from every one of his achievements was great indeed. Returning
then to peaceful work in England, he chiefly spent the years remaining to him in efforts to
win back the justice of which he had been deprived, and in efforts, yet more zealous, to benefit
his country by exercise of the inventive talents in which he was almost as eminent as in warlike
powers. But those talents were slighted, though from them has, in part, resulted an entire
and wholly beneficial revolution in the science and practice of naval warfare. And, though
many of his personal wrongs were redressed, he was allowed to die without the complete wiping
out of the stain that had been put upon his honour.

Of this long course of suffering, it must be admitted, he was himself in some measure the cause.
Endowed, as few others have been endowed, with the highest mental qualities, he lacked other
qualities necessary to worldly advancement and the prosperous enjoyment of life. Truth and
justice he made the guiding principles of all his actions; but he knew nothing of expediency,
and was no adept in the arts of prudence. Unrivalled strategy was displayed by him in all his
warlike enterprises; but against the strategy of his fellow-workers he was utterly defenceless.
He made enemies where a cautious man might have made friends, and he allowed those enemies
to assail him, and to inflict upon him injuries almost irreparable, with weapons and by onslaughts
which a cautious man would easily have warded off. Judged by the harshest rules of worldly
wisdom, however, it must be acknowledged that these faults brought upon him far heavier punishment
than he merited. And perhaps it will be deemed by posterity that they were faults very nearly
akin to virtues.

The same want of prudence caused trouble to him in other respects. It led him, in furtherance
of the inventions and other projects by which he sought to benefit the world, into expenses
by which his scanty sources of income were very heavily taxed. It also sometimes made him the
victim of others. Guileless himself, he was not proof against the guile of many with whom he
came in contact. Every kind word sounded in his ear, every kind act appeared in his eye, as
if it proceeded from a heart as full of kindness as his own, and he often lavished sympathy
and gratitude on unworthy objects. But shall we blame him for this?

Kindness, indeed, was as much a characteristic of him as valour. While the world was full of
the fame of his warlike achievements, all who came within the circle of his acquaintance marvelled
to find a man so simple, so tender, so generous, and so courteous. When he was bowed down by
sorrows that nearly crushed him, he sought comfort in zealous efforts for alleviating the sufferings
of others.

Fortunate circumstances would have placed him in a station of universal honour, which he could
have occupied to the admiration of all on-lookers. But the circumstances of his life were unfortunate;
and therefore he had to endure such hardship as falls to the lot of few. The harsh judgment
by which he suffered has already been reversed. It will be atoned for when his worth is properly
acknowledged by his fellow-men.

APPENDIX.

(Page 161.)

CAPTAIN ABNEY HASTINGS'S LETTERS TO LORD COCHRANE

So much had to be said in the body of this volume in evidence of the insurmountable difficulties
raised by the Greeks themselves to Lord Cochrane's efforts to aid them as efficiently as he
desired, that there seemed no room, without wearying the reader, for there citing more than
two or three of the letters addressed to him by Captain Abney Hastings. They have, therefore,
been reserved for quotation here. Their publication is desirable for two reasons. In the first
place, they show how Captain Hastings, whom all the historians of the Greek Revolution join
in praising, was harassed, and his work rendered almost useless, by causes which Lord Cochrane,
in a much more difficult position, was blamed for not overcoming. In the second place, they
will serve as a contribution to the biography of a high-minded and valiant man, a sharer in
Lord Cochrane's zealous efforts on behalf of Greece, and in the misfortunes incident thereto,
of whose memorable career the world knows little.

I.

                         Karteria, Hydra, March 26th, 1827.

MY LORD,

The usual contrarieties of the machine prevented my following you yesterday according to your
desire. Observing you went to Poros, I thought I should act in conformity with your wishes
by coming here to take in coals, and avoid all possible delay. I have got on board enough for
about four days more. I have expected you all day, and not seeing you I have taken upon myself
to depart for the service you destined me for; although I am not quite certain I know the exact
station. I shall go off Grabousa and endeavour to find Captain St. George. I leave a letter
here for the primates, requesting them to load a small vessel with coals for my return, which
I wish to take in on the opposite side. This measure, far from occasioning delay, would be
advantageous in that respect as well as having less close connection with the Hydriots, whose
presence always has the effect of setting a bad example to the Greeks I have on board. I should
feel obliged to your lordship to insist on this measure. Perhaps it would be advantageous for
your lordship to decide upon the port you intend to occupy immediately, and send there all
the coals and other stores wanted for your naval force. Since you object to an island in the
Great Archipelago, I am of opinion, with Colonel Gordon, that Ambalaki is the best suited for
your station. If all the coals were there, much delay would be saved to the steam-vessels.
One of the causes our engine went so badly was that some fire-bars being burnt the fire fell
through, and we could not keep up the steam; another was, I had taken up the paddles (which
previously had two-feet dip) six inches; the engine consequently went faster, but the pumps
would not supply sufficient water. I have lowered them again. Pray leave your further orders
for me here, as I shall touch for coals as aforesaid on my return.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

II.

                         Karteria, Poros, April 9th, 1827

MY LORD,

I have the honour to transmit you an account of the Karteria steam-vessel up to March 16th,
by which you will perceive that with the 500l. credit I have on Messrs. Baif at Zante, I still
have a credit of 363 dollars in my favour. Not accustomed to keep such accounts, there may
be errors, but if any they are certainly against myself, as I may have omitted charging expenses;
whereas, I have never charged but what has really been expended, nor have I ever charged anything
for myself, directly or indirectly. Wages will become due again the 16th of this month, for
which I shall require about 800 dollars. Having but a few days' salt meat on board, I beg your
lordship to cause an order to be written, enabling me to receive such quantity as you may deem
requisite.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

III.

                         Karteria, Scopulo, April 19th, N.S., 1827.

MY LORD,

Northerly winds prevented my passing Cape Doro until the 15th. Having spoken a vessel from
Skyro, I learnt that an Austrian merchant vessel loaded with corn and ammunition for Negropont
was laying at that island under convoy of an Austrian vessel of war, and that the corvette
of Tombasi was there watching the merchant vessel. I touched at Skyro the night of the 15th,
and found that the Austrian was gone, supposed for Syra, followed by an Hydriot schooner of
Konduriottes, who is supposed to have made some arrangement with the Austrian to deliver the
cargo to him. The Greek corvette had sailed, as I was told, for this. I arrived here the night
of the 16th, and found that the brig and schooner were zealously employed on the service they
had been sent upon. Having steamed more than I had at first intended, I was in want of fuel,
and set them at work here to obtain me wood, which they have done with more alacrity than I
expected during Easter holidays. The engine of course required repairs. I sent off the schooner
to inform the vessels of the blockade, when I should join them, and appointing a rendezvous.
I sail immediately, and hope to take or destroy the vessels at Tricheri and Volo tomorrow.
I send this by the primates of this island, who carry a letter to your lordship offering their
services. They have been apparently much oppressed in all these islands by the heroes of the
earth, and are anxious to obtain protection from the naval force. This island is fertile, and
could (and could be made to) pay well for protection. The others have claims equally strong
for protection. St. George, De Skyro, Scopulo, Skatho, &c., &c., have more than 2,000 Liapis
quartered upon them at this moment. If Athens is relieved, these worthies might be turned into
Negropont with much effect. I am told the Turkish transports are still at Tricheri and Volo,
not doubting to clear the Gulf of Greeks à force d'argent--however, I hope to be with them
to-morrow.

I suspect fuel could be obtained cheaper here than at Megara; and I see no reason for incurring
the expense of transport of wood to Poros for construction of gunboats when a great majority
of the Greek vessels are constructed here. The wood does not grow here. It is brought from
Agora on the main. The deputies--tout bêtes comme ils sont--can inform your lordship of these
things.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

P.S.--Having taken the coals out from between the boilers and side of the ship, I am anxious
to fill this space with wool, as a protection against shot. The coals stowed there are an inconvenience
for many reasons, and something is necessary to replace them as a protection for the boilers.
If your lordship would be good enough to order Tombasi to procure me wool for that purpose,
I think you would be ultimately satisfied of its utility.

IV.

                         Karteria, off Tricheri, Monday,
                         April 23rd, N.S., 1827.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to inform you that in pursuance of your orders, I carried the squadron under
my command, consisting of corvette Themistocles, brig Aris, schooner Aspasia, and schooner
Panayia, before the port of Volo, the evening of the 20th. I found eight vessels at anchor
in the port; immediately I directed the Themistocles and Aris to anchor off a battery at the
point, and cannonade it whilst I entered the harbour with boats and schooners. At 4.30 P.M.
they anchored with much gallantry, and soon silenced the musket-shot from the battery. At the
same moment I entered the harbour with the boats and schooners, and we shortly took possession
of seven brigs: they were all on shore, and most without sails bent. However, by 9 P.M. we
succeeded in getting out five prizes, three loaded with provisions and ammunition, two light;
and this most fortunately without the loss of a man killed or wounded, although we lay at anchor
in the harbour four hours and a half, exposed to the fire of the Castle of Volo. The ship has
received no material injury, although several shot struck her. We set fire to two prizes we
could not succeed in getting out; one light brig remains, but we shot away her foremast and
did her such damage in her hull as will (I hope) prevent her putting to sea again. Last night
I entered Tricheri with the boats of Themistocles, Aris, and Aspasia, to endeavour to carry
out a brig of war, Turkish, of sixteen guns and two mortars, but found her protected too advantageously
by batteries and musketry. I send the prizes to your lordship under the convoy of the Aspasia,
and shall remain here a few days to endeavour to destroy the Turkish brig of war, and shall
then return to join your lordship. I beg leave to assure your lordship before I conclude that
in these affairs I have met with the most cordial support from the captains of the vessels
under my orders, and that their conduct, as well as that of all the officers and men of the
squadron, has been highly meritorious.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. Hastings.

P.S.--As the schooner Panayia will participate in the prizes, I have ordered her to remain
on the blockade, although not sent by your lordship.

V.

                         Karteria, at Sea, April 24th, 1827.

MY LORD,

An hour after I had the honour of sending you my last letter, detailing the affair of Volo,
I stood into Tricheri with the vessels under my command, viz., Themistocles, Aris, Panayia.

The Turks in this place had one brig-of-war which (erroneously in my last I rated at sixteen
guns) mounted but fourteen long 24-pounders and two mortars; she was made fast in a small bight,
with a plank on shore and high rocks on each side of her, behind which were posted a strong
corps of Albanian troops; she was likewise protected by a battery close under her bow and five
other batteries in other parts. Four small schooners lay quite hauled up on the beach. To attempt
to carry away vessels so posted and defended by men who wanted neither alacrity nor resolution
would have been exposing the lives of the crews in a very unwarrantable manner. I therefore
resolved to burn the brig, which we effected in less than an hour. I did not make any attempt
upon the schooners, which I considered too inconsiderable to justify a loss in capturing them.
In this affair the captains, officers, and crews conducted themselves all much to my satisfaction.

Inclosed I have the honour to transmit to you a return of the killed and wounded in this affair,
which, I am happy to say, is trifling. I have left the rest of the squadron to maintain the
blockade.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

A return of the killed and wounded on board of the Greek squadron, at Tricheri, April 23rd./11th.

  Karteria, killed . . . one seaman, Ralph Hall.
  Aris, killed . . . . . one seaman.
   "   wounded . . . . . . two seamen.
  Panayia, wounded . . . one seaman.
       Total . . . . . . . two killed and three wounded.
                                                 F. A. HASTINGS.

VI.

                         Karteria, at Sea, April 26th, N.S., 1827.

MY LORD,

Passing by Kumi, I observed several vessels at anchor there, and a great number of large kyekes,
&c., hauled up on the beach. I stood in, and overhauled them, and found, as I suspected, that
a most scandalous and extensive commerce in grain is carrying on to that place with the Turks,
chiefly in Greek vessels. A brig under Russian colours was chiefly discharged; a Psarian schooner
was nearly full, and the magazines on shore were full. I set about loading the grain from the
magazines, but was unable to take off more than one-third of what was in them; and I have good
reason for supposing that other magazines equally stored are to be found in the town, about
an hour's distance.

Here there were only a dozen Turks, who fled at our approach. In the evening no less than nine
small vessels were seen standing in to Kumi. I weighed and boarded six of them; three being
entirely empty, I allowed to pass; two I detained and have brought with me.

The want of men, of time, &c., has prevented my putting a finishing hand to this infamous traffic;
but I have no doubt your lordship will see the propriety of sending a vessel of war without
delay to destroy these depôts. It is idle to talk of blockading the Gulf of Negropont whilst
such an extensive commerce is carrying on at other points of the island.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

VII.

                         Karteria, Poros, April 28th, 1827.

MY LORD,

Captain St. George going to join you, I take the opportunity of informing you, besides what
my other letters contain, that my information from Kumi imports that Negropont contains two
months' provisions for the army of Kutayi and fortress, and that all their hopes are in the
Turkish fleet, expected daily. It seems to me of the first importance that the Greek fleet
should be ready to encounter the Turks; and the Gulf is a place particularly favourable to
the smaller, lighter, and more skilful party. Might I suggest, my lord, the propriety of sending
a couple of light vessels upon whom you could depend to cruise off the Dardanelles, and give
information in time? The corvette, brig, and schooner off Tricheri requested me to represent
their want of provisions, and the necessity they have of paying their crew regularly; many
I suspect have already quitted them: with Greek sailors no arrears of pay can exist--hitherto
they have been accustomed to receive their wages in advance; if they can be made to go to sea
without that advance it is a great point gained; to omit fulfilling the engagement would be
to ruin all confidence and oblige the sailors to return to their ancient demands.

With respect to Kumi, I beg leave to urge the necessity of sending a vessel (perhaps better
Captain St. George than a Greek, who probably would not dare do his duty there, was he so disposed)
to destroy the infamous traffic existing there. May I beg of your lordship to order here the
Marine Tribunal from Napoli to adjudge the prizes taken; also to issue a public order respecting
the distribution of prize-money, by which I may be guided in my payments? You will observe
that in my letter respecting the affair of Tricheri I mention simply having burnt the brig-of-war
without saying how. That letter being a despatch for publication, I thought it as well not
to proclaim to the enemy the use we made of red-hot shot. It was by those I burnt the brig,
and could quite as easily burn by the same means the largest ship ever built. Might I suggest
the advantage that would result from using the same projectile from almost every ship? each
vessel might as well as me have a furnace in her hold for the feeding of two of her guns--the
effect would be tremendous. If the fleet was ready before the Turks came out, a slight excursion
to Salonica might be attended with profit and advantage. I shall require a little time to repair
damages. I have lost my larboard cat-head, my jib-boom, second topmast, main-gaff, bowsprit
shot through, and the engine requires various repairs--the steam waste-pipe is completely gone,
and I must get another made. I hope and trust your lordship has still the intention of forming
a national fleet and a dockyard; without this your difficulties will be multiplied beyond measure.
I merely mention this because I hear intrigues are on foot to prevent such measures. I, a stranger,
who belong to no party, and who neither fear nor love the Hydriots and Spetziots, will tell
you the truth on these points. Although your orders prescribed for me to remain a fortnight
on the blockade of the Gulf of Negropont, I was forced to return--wanting ammunition, fuel,
provisions, and various repairs. I shall use my endeavours to be ready for sea as speedily
as possible. Before I conclude, give me leave to congratulate your lordship upon your brilliant
success at the Piræus. I have no doubt it is but a prelude to more important successes.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

VIII.

                         Karteria, Poros, April 30th, 1827.

MY LORD,

May I beg leave to present to you my very particular friend, Mr. Nicolo Kalergy? You will find
him a young man of good education, talent, and, what is of still greater value, of great probity.
I have known him many years, and esteemed him equally long. By his private fortune he is independent,
and has consequently always refused to meddle in the intrigues he regrets so much to see cause
the misfortunes of his country. So much for introduction. Mr. Nicolo Kalergy has been good
enough to wait upon you to receive your orders respecting the prizes I have lately captured.
These vessels contain grain chiefly, and therefore would in that state be of no use to you.
Your commissaries must turn it into biscuit before it is sent to the Piraeus. The Government
has sent for the Admiralty Court from Napoli to sit here upon the judgment of vessels detained.
As to the sale, I am of opinion that to appease the jealousy of the seamen a public sale should
be held, and your commissaries purchase it if they please. They will thus always obtain it
cheaper than they could buy it at Syra, and thus nobody can complain. I am anxious to receive
from your lordship an order respecting the distribution of prize-money, and this, I think,
should be public. Hitherto the Government has received fifteen per cent. upon all prizes. Of
course your lordship will arrange as you think proper upon this subject; but if any part of
a prize goes to the public purse, it is only but just it should aid in the payment of the wages
of seamen. I am now paying a month's wages out of my own pocket, which I hope and trust your
lordship will reimburse me, as I cannot continue this system. Anything can be done in Greece
by prompt payments; with arrears nothing is to be done. My friend has much and various information
respecting every part of Greece, and can furnish you with much useful matter. I do not doubt
but you will shortly appreciate his merit.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

P.S.--May I beg of you, my lord, to furnish me with a commission of lieutenant for Mr. Darby,
the only officer doing duty as a sailor on board--in truth, he is no sailor, and does not pretend,
but he is brave, diligent, and a gentleman, and has served with me for about four months?

IX.

                         Karteria, Poros, April 30th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I had the honour to receive your orders of the 28th inst. Your lordship will have observed,
by the letters I had the honour of transmitting to you, that the condition of this vessel is
such as to render it impossible for her to put to sea immediately. Dr. Gosse last night was
occupied sending you off 68-pounders, and I am happy to hear this morning that the monastery
has fallen without them. I must again repeat how indispensable it is that this fleet should
be in readiness to encounter the Turks, who cannot now delay long their departure. Besides
wages for the crew, I have various expenses here to repair damage sustained by the vessel.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

P.S.--It seems to me necessary to relieve the vessels at Volo, or they will quit their station.
Greek sailors on board their own ships will not remain more than a month at sea.

X.

                         Karteria, Poros, May 6th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I do myself the honour of enclosing for your perusal two different extracts from public papers
sent me lately from Zante. I am now ready for sea, excepting powder, of which I have only two
quarter-casks of very vile French stuff, received from Captain St. George. Mr. Hesketh, amongst
the other prizes made at Napoli, has brought some flannel cartridges for our guns filled, and
forty casks of powder. Would your lordship have the goodness to cause an order to be sent me
to receive this powder? There is still a great quantity of the stores sent out from England
missing. I have the bills of lading, and can give copies to Mr. Hesketh, if you think proper
to send to Hydra, Spetzas, and Napoli again to collect them. I suspect the Hydriots have now
in their possession about one hundred and sixty carbines such as I have on board.

It appears strange to everybody here that all the Commissary Department should be absent. I
am informed provisions are wanted, and yet nobody comes to buy the prize provisions. As every
Greek is by nature a thief, things disappear daily; and if they remain much longer, nothing
will be forthcoming. Already my Greeks have petitioned me about the prizes; and everybody acquainted
with Greek sailors must be aware they will not go to sea again until they have been paid their
prize-money. Till now there never was no example of a ship quitting her prize until sold and
the proceeds distributed. I am sorry to be obliged to remind your lordship again that on my
arrival here I paid my crew one month's wages, due the 16th of last month, and in ten days
more another month's wages are due, and pay I must, for, as I have frequently remarked to your
lordship, no arrears can exist in this country. The wages also is not the only expense. I was
obliged to purchase about one hundred tons of firewood at Scopulo. Fresh meat in harbour runs
away with great sums; and when the engine works, it consumes about half a dollar a day of oil.
Besides all this, I have been obliged to hire three carpenters for ten days to repair damages
done in late expedition. I had a fluke shot off a bower anchor at Tricheri, and ought to have
another one. I must get a new main-sail made here. It is disagreeable to me to torment your
lordship with all these statements, but you must be aware that a vessel like this cannot be
sailed without great expense. There are here a number of seamen from the brig who want to enter
with me. I have as yet refused to receive them; but, if you thought proper to give me an order,
I should then be justified in so doing.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XI.

                         Karteria, Spetzas, May 30th, 1827.

MY LORD,

Having lost my two masts in a squall off Cape Malea, and having business at Poros requiring
my presence, I have thought it the most expeditious way to go myself to purchase other masts
at Hydra, and settle my affairs at Poros. I therefore do myself the honour to transmit to your
lordship a report of my proceedings after you left me near Stamphane. At sunset I lighted the
fires, and, as soon as steam was up, steered for the passage between Zante and the Morea. The
wind freshening much in a contrary direction, I found myself about ten miles to the southward
of Zante in the morning. About three A.M. we perceived a large vessel standing towards us from
the Morea, and we went to quarters for her. I thought at first she might be the Hellas; but
on approaching she stood back to the mainland, which made me conclude that it was a stranger;
the wind increasing, I could not remain head to wind, and made sail under the lee of Zante.
In the forenoon I saw a large ship under the land far off steering to the south, which I concluded
was a Turkish or neutral ship of war. The wind abating, I steamed up round the eastern point
of Zante, and not finding the Hellas on the other side of the island, I stood towards Cephalonia,
opening out the two Turkish frigates laying at Clarenza. In the evening I saw a large ship
very far astern coming northward, and supposed she was the Hellas and the same I had seen in
the forenoon under the land. At sunset I altered course and steered for Clarenza, and in the
first watch we saw a good deal of firing in that direction. The wind and sea augmenting, I
was unable to keep the ship head to sea, and therefore bore up for the rendezvous of Oxia.
Not finding the Hellas at this station, the wind augmenting, the starboard wheel being out
of repair, and threatening to come to pieces if not looked to, the water requiring to be drawn
off the boilers, &c., all these things made it necessary for me to search a port. I looked
inside Oxia, but found it unsafe, and therefore bore up for the Port of Petala, where I put
things to rights as well as I could; but found on examination we had but three days and a half's
coals, little water, and only a few days' bread. Under these circumstances, I felt myself called
upon to return whilst the means were still left me of hoping to accomplish it. Having obtained
an offing west of Cephalonia, I took off the paddles and sailed, which gave us an opportunity
of again repairing the wheels--again in an unsound condition--and saved our fuel. The wind
and sea calming, I got up my steam; and there being every appearance of calm weather, I stood
within five or six miles of Modon, hoping to meet the two frigates we saw off there when we
passed northward. However, we saw nothing but a brig inside the harbour, sailing close along
the land. Late on the evening of the 28th, when rounding Cape St. Angelo, a squall from the
high land carried away our fore and second masts, and left us in a very unenviable situation,
considering we had but a few hours' coals on board. However, a breeze favouring us all night,
we arrived here at ten A.M., 29th May. Upon the foremast we lost one man--Jani Patinioti.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XII.

                         Karteria, Spetzas, June 7th, N.S., 1827.

MY LORD,

I had the honour of sending you a report of my proceedings since I left you, and hoped to have
found you here on my return from Poros, that I might receive your further orders. I returned
last night, having been subjected to more delay and vexation than can be imagined or expressed,
respecting the prizes taken at Volo. I could only procure one mast at Poros, sold me by Tombasi--others
there were both at Hydra and Poros, but the proprietors would not part with them; I have therefore
been obliged to purchase one here, considerably too large and expensive, but there is no remedy.
I hope to be ready for sea in three days, but fear I shall have some embarrassment about money
matters. The purchase of masts, of salt provisions, sails, &c., besides the pay due to crew,
puts me to considerable straits, particularly as I had lent all the ready money I possessed
to Kalergy to redeem his brother; however, I shall do my utmost to get to sea, and I am anxious
to know how, when, and where, I can have the honour of rejoining your lordship. A fireship
that departs to-day will deliver you this letter, and your lordship may perhaps think it worth
while to send a vessel here with orders for my further guidance. May I beg of you also to add
a private signal by which I may know all Greek vessels at a tolerable distance by day--also
a night private signal?

The British squadron is assembled at Smyrna, awaiting the admiral. The camp at Phalerum is
broken up, and General Church is returned to Egina. The puppet of Government is occupied voting
for the nomination of ministers, if possible more incapable than themselves; they talk of going
to Napoli--Griva and Fotomana propose this. The former as usual seized upon an American ship;
and Dr. Howe, charged with the distribution of the cargo, applied to Captain Patterson of the
Constitution, who is now at Napoli guarding it. I am sorry to add that Mr. Lee received a letter
from England announcing that the Enterprise having sailed, her boilers burst opposite Plymouth,
and she was towed into that port by a brig-of-war.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XIII.

                         Karteria, Spetzas, June 9th, 1827. I received my
foremast on board to-day, but the majority and best of my crew has
left me. I must look for others, and intend to weigh to-night and go
to Poros, where I was tormented by hundreds to take them. Here I can
get men--but shall confine myself to half-a-dozen, as I find it
necessary to mix my crew. In going to Poros I shall not delay
anything, since I shall be occupied getting up my masts and rigging
there, making sails, &c., &c., en route, and I can water more easily
at Poros than here. I have informed the captain of the brig that
brought this, that if I am ready to sail before any further orders of
yours arrive, I shall repair to Cerigotto, and there await
instructions from you; if I am not at Cerigotto I shall be found here.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XIV.

                         Karteria, Syra, August 1st, 1827.

MY LORD,

In hopes of seeing your lordship here I have waited two days, since which, although not finished,
all the work of our machinery can be done on board. There are two things which retain me, namely,
money, of which I require about seven hundred dollars, and the fire-bars, which they continually
civilly refuse me--acting the true Greek or in other words, the dog in the manger. If your
lordship remains long absent, I shall be sadly puzzled how to act. Without new fire-bars we
cannot steam again. The local authorities here are so afraid of the Hydriots and Spetziots
that they dare not take any steps against them. To leave this without the fire-bars is useless.
If I can obtain these bars, and your lordship does not arrive, I will pay myself the necessary
sums to get the vessel out of this port, hoping you will reimburse me--but to go without the
bars is only going to return again. What I can do to forward the service I will readily perform,
and anxious enough I am to get away from this place.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XV.

                         Karteria, Poros, August 19th, 1827,

MY LORD,

On my arrival here I wrote to Hydra to request the local authorities there to send me the necessary
coals, since you do not wish the last cargo to be used. I have received no answer, and upon
inquiring yesterday from persons arrived from Hydra, I find they are not taking any measures
to forward them to me. My officer wrote me under date of the 15th from Napoli that he hoped
to be able to cast the bars there, in which case I shall have to wait for the coals from Hydra.
The impertinence of these shopkeepers has at length attained a pitch that is scarcely endurable--it
is to be hoped your lordship will make them send the coals--[The remainder is lost.]

XVI.

                         Karteria, Poros, August 20th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I am delighted to find you have an expedition in progress. This vessel shall be ready to accompany
your lordship, whether I can get the bars cast at Napoli or not. The ones we now have can be
made to answer for twenty-four hours. I shall write to Napoli to order the engineers to be
here by the 23rd, whether they succeed in casting the bars or not. The coals I wrote for from
Hydra are Government coals; and it is well they should be used the first, as I have been informed
they are greatly diminishing without our consumption. I should like to complete as speedily
as possible, and there is no time to spare between this and the 24th for shipping 100 tons
of coal from Hydra.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XVII.

                         Karteria, Poros, August 22nd, 1827.

MY LORD,

I am making a sail according to your lordship's plan, to becalm the hull of the ship, but want
sailcloth for completing it. I understand M. Koering has some in store; would your lordship
be kind enough to allow me to take a hundred piques? I have a good deal of very bad French
powder on board, and even of Turkish, I suspect, put into French barrels, which I received
from Methana--could your lordship permit me to exchange it against English powder? It is of
very great importance that our cartridge powder should be good.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XVIII.

                         Karteria, Gulf of Lepanto, Sept. 27th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to transmit you a report of my proceedings from the day I left you till this
moment. Captain Thomas, of the Sauveur, joined me the 21st, and proposed with much gallantry
to go into the Gulf in the daytime. The wind being usually out at night I consented with some
difficulty, in consequence of the little dependence I can place on my engine, which might render
it impossible for me to follow him immediately. The Sauveur, with gunboat Bavaroise in tow,
and accompanied by two schooners (you had left to keep the blockade at Missolonghi, but who,
contrary to my knowledge, thus disobeyed your orders), passed into the Gulf the evening of
the 21st in most gallant style, in despite of the enemy's very formidable batteries and one
brig of war and two schooners at the Morea Castles, and several vessels at Lepanto. I attempted
to steam in that night, but the engine failed me within two miles of the Castles. The next
day, the wind being strong in, I attempted to sail in, but when within gunshot of the Castles
the wind failed me, and it was not until the evening of the 23rd that I could get passed, towing
after me the Philhellene gunboat, of whose commander I have always had particular occasion
to be satisfied. All our damage amounted to a few ropes cut. On communicating with the Morea,
the 24th, I was informed that the enemy had nine vessels at Salona, and there were three Austrians
there, that Captain Thomas had attacked them the 23rd, but in consequence of unfavorable weather
he had not made any impression, and that he retired to Loutraki. I immediately despatched a
mistico to desire Captain Thomas to join me with all the vessels he could collect; but not
seeing him on the 26th, and fearing that the Turks might strengthen themselves during a delay,
I stood in on the 26th with the gunboat Philhellene; but we no sooner approached than the wind
came so strong out that we could not keep the ship head to wind, and found it necessary to
retire. The Turks have at Salona a very fine Algerine schooner brig, of fourteen guns, brig
of sixteen guns, bearing an admiral's flag, three smaller schooners, two armed transport brigs,
and two large boats with guns, and they have a battery on shore. There are also three Austrians.
While under their fire one of my engineers was slightly wounded. I am now waiting for the arrival
of Captain Thomas, for whom I have sent again, and preparing for a final trial.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                             F. A. HASTINGS.

XIX.

                         Karteria, Loutraki, Oct. 7th, 1827.

MY LORD,

Captain Thomas arrived here after our affair at Salona with the prizes, and sent off immediately
to Poros for provisions and ammunition. I could not (notwithstanding your orders for him to
remain only seven days in the Gulf) allow him to depart in the state he then was--having only
five days' provisions, and four cartridges a gun. He received some powder and provisions yesterday,
and in consequence of your order of the 27th, which he received yesterday, departs immediately.
If the length of time Captain Thomas has remained in the Gulf is contrary to your intentions,
I am alone responsible; he was always anxious to depart. My crew is in a very discontented
state, in consequence of the month being expired without their receiving their wages. Twelve
have left me, and if I do not get money I fear the whole crew will follow their example. I
have sent an officer to Poros for provisions, ammunition, and money, if possible. I understand
the English are about to prevent any offensive operations of General Church, and if not, he
would never be able to undertake any, situated as he is for money and provisions. This seems
to render my remaining here any longer of no use. As soon as I can get any money and provisions
and arrange about the prizes I will quit the Gulf; but as I have no orders from you where to
go, I shall return to Poros unless you contrive to send me some directions in the interim.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XX.

                         Karteria, Loutraki, Oct. 8th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to receive your letter of the 3rd, and am happy to hear that the Enterprise
is arrived. I have also received one thousand dollars with the stores, &c., which are very
acceptable. I despatched the Sauveur yesterday, according to your order of the 27th ult. I
still retain the gunboats, which are very useful. I wish further orders from your lordship
to know whether we are to remain in the Gulf, and if you wish us to go out. There is yet at
the Castles a brig and three or four Turkish schooners. I do not exactly know their position.
I intend to run down there one of these days and see what can be done with them; if close under
the walls of the Castles, which are very strong, we could burn them some dark night if you
would send me a dozen rockets. I would go with a small boat close to them and do their business.
Mr. Hane announces to me that your lordship proposes coming up to Corinth, in which case I
will do myself the honour of waiting upon you, and receiving your further orders. I have despatched
a gunboat to General Church to inform him of your intention, and to bring him here if he wishes
to confer with your lordship.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XXI.

                         Karteria, Loutraki, Oct. 14th, 1827.

MY LORD,

Mr. Hane writes me that the Turkish fleet is off Patras. From time to time I have received
vague accounts of vessels off there, but nothing certain. I shall fortify myself either here
or at the port on the other side, under the village of Pera ora--I think the latter. I want
fuzes for shells. A box was sent (I suppose in mistake for fuzes), but it contained blue lights.
Pray give an officer an order to send me at least five hundred fuzes. In my last to your lordship
I mentioned of what service rockets would be to us as means of attack on the enemy's vessels
at the Castles; they will be of no less service as weapons of defence. Pray, my lord, let me
have as large a quantity as possible. I understood you were coming to Corinth, which has detained
me here, or I would by this have been at the other end of the Gulf to gain information, and
see after the brig, for I fear Thomas is not too prudent. I have just been informed that much
cannonading was heard in the quarter of Lepanto the day before yesterday. I hope no misfortune
has befallen him. I have the two gunboats and one mistico out to bring me information, and
I can receive nothing. Pray let me have the rockets.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XXII.

                         Karteria, Port Strava, Gulf of Lepanto,
                         Oct. 17th, 1827.

MY LORD,

Not having received any orders from your lordship, I am still in the Gulf. In consequence of
an order from your lordship to Captain Thomas, I despatched the Sauveur on the 7th inst., and
sent the gunboat Philhellene with her with letters to General Church, and orders to wait and
bring me information how the Sauveur got past the Castles; for I was a good deal anxious on
her account, and should have gone myself to give her any assistance in case of need, but that
I understood you intended coming over to Corinth. Mr. Hane bringing me letters for General
Church, I despatched the other gunboat, Bavaroise, with these, and also some for the Sauveur,
in case she was still in the Gulf. Mr. Darby, the commander of the Bavaroise, had directions
to bring General Church if he was anxious to communicate personally with your lordship. Day
after day I awaited anxiously an answer, till at length the mistico I had sent three days ago
to General Church, to learn something of the fleet outside, which Mr. Hane wrote me for certain
was Turkish, returned yesterday evening, informing me that the Sauveur and two gunboats had
gone out on Wednesday. General Church writes me that he positively intends passing into Roumelia,
and wants my aid; but I am now quite alone (except the mistico, with whom I know not what to
do). He continually applies to me for provisions, and will soon probably for money. What am
I to do about him? Although wishing to aid General Church and the service in all I can, I must
acknowledge I have no confidence in his intended movement, more particularly as he tells me
he has no provisions, and wants me to seize by force what I find in boats. All I could get
by this discreditable way of raising provisions would not certainly feed one hundred men for
three days, and therefore could not aid General Church, and would be a gratuitous vexation
of these miserable peasantry. If General Church had money and provisions, much is to be done
in Roumelia, but without these nothing can be achieved anywhere. As soon as I have got the
prizes back to Loutraki, and formed batteries, I will go and visit General Church, and learn
more particulars. But I am very anxious for some orders from your lordship, having received
nothing but the official letter of thanks since I left you. I write in haste, and beg your
lordship to let me have an answer as soon as possible.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. Hastings.

XXIII.

                         Karteria, Loutraki, Oct. 27th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I am ready to do all and anything for the good of the service, but I fear General Church has
no means. I had him on board for two days, making reconnaissances round the Gulf, and from
what I can gather, the money said to be at Corfu is a chimera. I suspect he has not a shilling
anywhere, and cannot stir. He talks, it is true, of expeditions, and I have always assured
him of my readiness to aid him, but we cannot be consuming months after months in the hopes
of his receiving supplies. I must limit the period of his embarkation, and if he cannot then
act, I think I shall be justified in quitting him. I shall try, however, to destroy the other
vessels in the Gulf first. We are in great want of fire-bars. I am laying in a stock of wood,
but we have not yet been able to succeed perfectly with it. I have taken out the bars and filled
the ash-pits; this we find does better than with any bars in, but we cannot as yet keep up
steam with it. I hope, however, ultimately to succeed--in fact our coals are nearly finished.
To show you how General Church goes on--his gunboat has only advanced twenty feet from the
beach, and yet he will not send away that swindler Allen, who commands her. I told him I would
not meddle with her until he dismissed that man, and things remain thus. General Church, while
on board, received letters announcing the unlooked-for destruction of the Turkish fleet; still
I have not entirely credited it, and I am in anxious expectation of some decisive information
about it. I am obliged to your lordship for the fuzes, and hoped to have had also some rockets.
We are beginning to get short again of provisions, viz., biscuit. The loaded prize is condemned,
with a ridiculous clause for me to pay the crew. They say nothing of the other vessels. I send
Captain Hane to Egina, to hasten the condemnation of the light vessels and counteract the intrigues
which I have no doubt Tombasi has recommenced. I shall also endeavour by him to have more biscuit;
we have now but for a fortnight.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. Hastings.

XXIV.

                         Karteria, Loutraki, Nov. 8th, 1827.

MY LORD,

The General Church has at length put himself in motion. Some provisions and money have arrived
on the other side for him (I mean at Calamachi), and I hope to sail with it to join him to-night.
I fortunately received a fortnight's provisions yesterday, when I had only one day's biscuit
on board. After destroying, or ascertaining that I cannot destroy, the vessels at Lepanto,
I will go outside the Gulf and blockade Missolonghi, Patras, and the Gulf, hoping the General
will blockade them by land. I fear much, however, for provisions; I will endeavour to get some
from the Ionian Islands; but money and everything else is scarce with me,--but I hear your
lordship is in the same predicament, and therefore I cannot complain. May I beg of your lordship
to grant a commission of naval lieutenant to M. Falanga, who has served on board this vessel
from 29th March, 1827, and is a most deserving officer? he is the only sailor officer I have,
and was always the only one of any use in that capacity. He behaved extremely well both at
Volo, Tricheri, and Salona, at which latter place he was wounded in the neck with a musket-ball,
while setting fire to one of the abandoned vessels. I may really say he is the only Greek I
ever saw who seems to conceive what an officer ought to be. Although he would be a great loss
to me, and I should be sorry to part with him but for his own advantage, I can strongly recommend
him for promotion in the command of a vessel, since (as I hear) your lordship is in such dreadful
want of officers to command. I am sure he would give you the highest satisfaction.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. Hastings.

XXV.

                         Karteria, Nov. 17th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to announce to you that, after much delay and disappointment--usual in Greece--I
am about to proceed to Lepanto to-morrow, and endeavour to destroy the Turkish vessels there.
I then go outside, to pass General Church over into Roumelia, and afterwards blockade Missolonghi,
Patras, and Lepanto. The want of the gunboats here is much felt by me at this moment, as, in
going out, I must leave the Gulf to the Turks; who, even should I be fortunate enough to destroy
the enemy's vessels at Lepanto, will always have here armed boats enough to command the Gulf.

I must also beg of your lordship to consider us in money matters.

It is most likely that if all the important points I have mentioned could be blockaded, the
Turks would be soon reduced, from the blockade being so much more easily maintained than elsewhere.
Without money, you must be aware I cannot maintain this vessel; and all to be expected from
General Church, you must be aware, is plenty of promises. The General is already overwhelmed
with expectants, and if he had millions would not be able to command a farthing.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XXVI.

                         Karteria, off Cape Papas, Nov. 20th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to inform you I passed the Castles on the 18th, with the three prizes and
mistico in company. I lost two men killed and one wounded in passing; the other vessels passed
without suffering any damage. It had been my intention to attack the Turkish squadron at Lepanto,
but the wind was so strong on the land, that I felt I could not effect my object; and, anxious
to profit by the same wind to go out and aid the operations of the army outside, and blockade
the fortresses, I passed through without waiting a more favourable moment of attack. At Patras
I found a schooner, whose suspicious conduct--in abstaining for a long time from hoisting any
colours, and, when she afterwards showed Austrian, persisting in drawing closer under the Turkish
battery--induced me to fire and bring her out. After waiting a little, and finding no attention
paid to my warning, I fired again, and sunk her. I hear she was Austrian.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XXVII.

                         Karteria, Petala, Dec. 2nd, 1827.

MY LORD,

I had the honour to write to you from Cape Papas, informing you that I had come out of the
Gulf of Lepanto, and was waiting to embark the troops of General Church. I now beg leave to
acquaint you that I arrived at Dragomestre the day before yesterday with the three prizes,
which have been serving as transports to General Church's army for six weeks. We brought over
six hundred soldiers, artillery, horses, &c.; and I am now returning to Cape Papas to embark
a second division. I heard of the gunboat Helvetia, M. Fabricius, being at Kataculo, and I
sent immediately to order him to join me, which he did, and is now at Cape Papas. While at
Kataculo, the gunboat was attacked by a Turkish brig of twenty-four guns. M. Fabricius defended
himself with much spirit, and obliged the brig to retire. I have since heard that the same
brig is now off Previsa. If the service here will permit my absence, I think of going to look
after her. The Gulf of Lepanto is now left entirely in the hands of the Turks, and I wish to
send the gunboat in to assist the expedition against Salona, but the crew having been so long
about here, suffering much hardship and without pay, are very dissatisfied. I have given the
boat a new mast, anchor, cable, provisions, ammunition, &c., and I will even advance them a
little money, if they will go into the Gulf. I should hope, however, that your lordship will
reimburse me for these expenses, extra of my own vessel. As you may imagine, I am almost entirely
without coals, and cannot get a sufficient quantity of the pitch-pine to burn; the other pine
will not answer, and therefore I am reduced to sails. General Church had ordered round here
a Psariot brig he had at Kenkness, and I wrote to M. Koering to request him to put coals on
board of her, which, I understand, M. Koering refused. From the manner in which I have been
frequently treated, one would imagine that this vessel was not a Greek but an enemy's vessel.
I trust your lordship will remedy this, and put me on a fair footing with the other Greek national
vessels. I wish your lordship could also contrive to let me have some money, to cover the expenses
of this vessel, which, for three months that we have been absent from Poros, cannot be supposed
trifling. As I conceive it important, under existing circumstances, to keep the blockade of
Patras, Missolonghi, and the Gulf, I will remain as long as my destitute situation will permit
me. Since I have been here I do not think any vessels have entered the Gulf.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XXVIII.

                         Karteria, Dragomestre, Dec. 8th, 1827.

MY LORD,

