Or again, the affirmative remains, but the negative is gone; thus ‘wisdom’, ‘bold’, ‘sad’,
but not any more ‘unwisdom’, ‘unbold’, ‘unsad’ (all in Wiclif); ‘cunning’, but not ‘uncunning’;
‘manhood’, ‘wit’, ‘mighty’, ‘tall’, but not ‘unmanhood’, ‘unwit’, ‘unmighty’, ‘untall’ (all
in Chaucer); ‘buxom’, but not ‘unbuxom’ (Dryden); ‘hasty’, but not ‘unhasty’ (Spenser); ‘blithe’,
but not ‘unblithe’; ‘ease’, but not ‘unease’ (Hacket); ‘repentance’, but not ‘unrepentance’;
‘remission’, but not ‘irremission’ (Donne); ‘science’, but not ‘nescience’ (Glanvill){152};
‘to know’, but not ‘to unknow’ (Wiclif); ‘to give’, but not ‘to ungive’. Or once more, with
a curious variation from this, the negative survives, while the affirmative is gone; thus ‘wieldy’
(Chaucer) survives only in ‘unwieldy’; ‘couth’ and ‘couthly’ (both in Spenser), only in ‘uncouth’
and ‘uncouthly’; ‘rule’ (Foxe) only in ‘unruly’; ‘gainly’ (Henry More) in ‘ungainly’; these
last two were both of them serviceable words, and have been ill lost{153}; ‘gainly’ is indeed
still common in the West Riding of Yorkshire; ‘exorable’ (Holland) and ‘evitable’ only in ‘inexorable’
and ‘inevitable’; ‘faultless’ remains, but hardly ‘faultful’ (Shakespeare). In like manner
‘semble’ (Foxe) has, except as a technical law term, disappeared; while ‘dissemble’ continues.
So also of other pairs one has been taken and one left; ‘height’, or ‘highth’, as Milton better
spelt it, remains, but ‘lowth’ (Becon) is gone; ‘righteousness’, or ‘rightwiseness’, as it
would once more accurately have been written, for ‘righteous’ is a corruption of ‘rightwise’,
remains, but its correspondent ‘wrongwiseness’ has been taken; ‘inroad’ continues, but ‘outroad’
(Holland) has disappeared; ‘levant’ lives, but ‘ponent’ (Holland) has died; ‘to extricate’
continues, but, as we saw just now, ‘to intricate’ does not; ‘parricide’, but not ‘filicide’
(Holland). Again, of whole groups of words formed on some particular scheme it may be only
a single specimen will survive. Thus ‘gainsay’, that is, again say, survives; but ‘gainstrive’
(Foxe), ‘gainstand’, ‘gaincope’ (Golding), and other similarly formed words exist no longer.
It is the same with ‘foolhardy’, which is but one, though now indeed the only one remaining,
of at least five adjectives formed on the same principle; thus ‘foollarge’, quite as expressive
a word as prodigal, occurs in Chaucer, and ‘foolhasty’, found also in him, lived on to the
time of Holland; while ‘foolhappy’ is in Spencer; and ‘foolbold’ in Bale. ‘Steadfast’ remains,
but ‘shamefast’, ‘rootfast’, ‘bedfast’ (=bedridden), ‘homefast’, ‘housefast’, ‘masterfast’
(Skelton), with others, are all gone. ‘Exhort’ remains; but ‘dehort’ a word whose place neither
‘dissuade’ nor any other exactly supplies, has escaped us{154}. We have ‘twilight’, but ‘twibill’
= bipennis (Chapman) is extinct.

Let me mention another real loss, where in like manner there remains in the present language
something to remind us of that which is gone. The comparative ‘rather’ stands alone, having
dropped on one side its positive ‘rathe’{155}, and on the other its superlative ‘rathest’.
‘Rathe’, having the sense of early, though a graceful word, and not fallen quite out of popular
remembrance, inasmuch as it is embalmed in the Lycidas of Milton,

    “And the rathe primrose, which forsaken dies”,

might still be suffered without remark to share the common lot of so many words which have
perished, though worthy to have lived; but the disuse of ‘rathest’ has left a real gap in the
language, and the more so, seeing that ‘liefest’ is gone too. ‘Rather’ expresses the Latin
‘potius’; but ‘rathest’ being out of use, we have no word, unless ‘soonest’ may be accepted
as such, to express ‘potissimum’, or the preference not of one way over another or over certain
others, but of one over all; which we therefore effect by aid of various circumlocutions. Nor
has ‘rathest’ been so long out of use, that it would be playing the antic to attempt to revive
it. It occurs in the Sermons of Bishop Sanderson, who in the opening of that beautiful sermon
from the text, “When my father and my mother forsake me, the Lord taketh me up”, puts the consideration,
“why these”, that is, father and mother, “are named the rathest, and the rest to be included
in them”{156}.

It is sometimes easy enough, but indeed oftener hard, and not seldom quite impossible, to trace
the causes which have been at work to bring about that certain words, little by little, drop
out of the language of men, come to be heard more and more rarely, and finally are not heard
any more at all--to trace the motives which have induced a whole people thus to arrive at a
tacit consent not to employ them any longer; for without this tacit consent they could never
have thus become obsolete. That it is not accident, that there is a law here at work, however
hidden it may be from us, is plain from the fact that certain families of words, words formed
on certain patterns, have a tendency thus to fall into desuetude.

{Sidenote: Words in ‘-some’}

Thus, I think, we may trace a tendency in words ending in ‘some’, the Anglo-Saxon and early
English ‘sum’, the German ‘sam’ (‘friedsam’, ‘seltsam’) to fall out of use. It is true that
a vast number of these survive, as ‘gladsome’, ‘handsome’, ‘wearisome’, ‘buxom’ (this last
spelt better ‘bucksome’, by our earlier writers, for its present spelling altogether disguises
its true character, and the family to which it belongs); being the same word as the German
‘beugsam’ or ‘biegsam’, bendable, compliant{157}; but a larger number of these words than can
be ascribed to accident, many more than the due proportion of them, are either quite or nearly
extinct. Thus in Wiclif’s Bible alone you might note the following, ‘lovesum’, ‘hatesum’, ‘lustsum’,
‘gilsum’ (guilesome), ‘wealsum’, ‘heavysum’, ‘lightsum’, ‘delightsum’; of these ‘lightsome’
long survived, and indeed still survives in provincial dialects; but of the others all save
‘delightsome’ are gone; and that, although used in our Authorized Version (Mal. iii, 12), is
now only employed in poetry. So too ‘mightsome’ (see Coleridge’s Glossary), ‘brightsome’ (Marlowe),
‘wieldsome’, and ‘unwieldsome’ (Golding), ‘unlightsome’ (Milton), ‘healthsome’ (Homilies),
‘ugsome’ and ‘ugglesome’ (both in Foxe), ‘laboursome’ (Shakespeare), ‘friendsome’, ‘longsome’
(Bacon), ‘quietsome’, ‘mirksome’ (both in Spenser), ‘toothsome’ (Beaumont and Fletcher), ‘gleesome’,
‘joysome’ (both in Browne’s Pastorals), ‘gaysome’ (Mirror for Magistrates), ‘roomsome’, ‘bigsome’,
‘awesome’, ‘timersome’, ‘winsome’, ‘viewsome’, ‘dosome’ (=prosperous), ‘flaysome’ (=fearful),
‘auntersome’ (=adventurous), ‘clamorsome’ (all these still surviving in the North), ‘playsome’
(employed by the historian Hume), ‘lissome’{158}, have nearly or quite disappeared from our
English speech. They seem to have held their ground in Scotland in considerably larger numbers
than in the south of the Island{159}.

{Sidenote: Words in ‘-ard’}

Neither can I esteem it a mere accident that of a group of depreciatory and contemptuous words
ending in ‘ard’, at least one half should have dropped out of use; I refer to that group of
which ‘dotard’, ‘laggard’, ‘braggard’, now spelt ‘braggart’, ‘sluggard’, ‘buzzard’, ‘bastard’,
‘wizard’, may be taken as surviving specimens; ‘blinkard’ (Homilies), ‘dizzard’ (Burton), ‘dullard’
(Udal), ‘musard’ (Chaucer), ‘trichard’ (Political Songs), ‘shreward’ (Robert of Gloucester),
‘ballard’ (a bald-headed man, Wiclif); ‘puggard’, ‘stinkard’ (Ben Jonson), ‘haggard’, a worthless
hawk, as extinct.

Thus too there is a very curious province of our language, in which we were once so rich, that
extensive losses here have failed to make us poor; so many of its words still surviving, even
after as many or more have disappeared. I refer to those double words which either contain
within themselves a strong rhyming modulation, such for example as ‘willy-nilly’, ‘hocus-pocus’,
‘helter-skelter’, ‘tag-rag’, ‘namby-pamby’, ‘pell-mell’, ‘hodge-podge’; or with a slight difference
from this, though belonging to the same group, those of which the characteristic feature is
not this internal likeness with initial unlikeness, but initial likeness with internal unlikeness;
not rhyming, but strongly alliterative, and in every case with a change of the interior vowel
from a weak into a strong, generally from i into a or o; as ‘shilly-shally’, ‘mingle-mangle’,
‘tittle-tattle’, ‘prittle-prattle’, ‘riff-raff’, ‘see-saw’, ‘slip-slop’. No one who is not
quite out of love with the homelier yet more vigorous portions of the language, but will acknowledge
the life and strength which there is often in these and in others still current among us. But
of the same sort what vast numbers have fallen out of use, some so fallen out of all remembrance
that it may be difficult almost to find credence for them. Thus take of rhyming the following:
‘hugger-mugger’, ‘hurly-burly’, ‘kicksy-wicksy’ (all in Shakespeare); ‘hibber-gibber’, ‘rusty-dusty’,
‘horrel-lorrel’, ‘slaump paump’ (all in Gabriel Harvey), ‘royster-doyster’ (Old Play), ‘hoddy-doddy’
(Ben Jonson); while of alliterative might be instanced these: ‘skimble-skamble’, ‘bibble-babble’
(both in Shakespeare), ‘twittle-twattle’, ‘kim-kam’ (both in Holland), ‘hab-nab’ (Lilly), ‘trim-tram’,
‘trish-trash’, ‘swish-swash’ (all in Gabriel Harvey), ‘whim-wham’ (Beaumont and Fletcher),
‘mizz-mazz’ (Locke), ‘snip-snap’ (Pope), ‘flim-flam’ (Swift), ‘tric-trac’, and others{160}.

{Sidenote: Words under Ban}

Again, there was once a whole family of words whereof the greater number are now under ban;
which seemed at one time to have been formed almost at pleasure, the only condition being that
the combination should be a happy one--I mean all those singularly expressive words formed
by a combination of verb and substantive, the former governing the latter; as ‘telltale’, ‘scapegrace’,
‘turncoat’, ‘turntail’, ‘skinflint’, ‘spendthrift’, ‘spitfire’, ‘lickspittle’, ‘daredevil’
(=wagehals), ‘makebate’ (=störenfried), ‘marplot’, ‘killjoy’. These with a certain number of
others, have held their ground, and may be said to be still more or less in use; but what a
number more are forgotten; and yet, though not always elegant, they constituted a very vigorous
portion of our language, and preserved some of its most genuine idioms{161}. It could not well
be otherwise; they are almost all words of abuse, and the abusive words of a language are always
among the most picturesque and vigorous and imaginative which it possesses. The whole man speaks
out in them, and often the man under the influence of passion and excitement, which always
lend force and fire to his speech. Let me remind you of a few of them; ‘smellfeast’, if not
a better, is yet a more graphic, word than our foreign parasite; as graphic indeed for us as
τρεχέδειπνος to Greek ears; ‘clawback’ (Hackett) is a stronger, if not a more graceful, word
than flatterer or sycophant; ‘tosspot’ (Fuller), or less frequently ‘reel-pot’ (Middleton),
tells its own tale as well as drunkard; and ‘pinchpenny’ (Holland), or ‘nipfarthing’ (Drant),
as well as or better than miser. And then what a multitude more there are in like kind; ‘spintext’,
‘lacklatin’, ‘mumblematins’, all applied to ignorant clerics; ‘bitesheep’ (a favourite word
with Foxe) to such of these as were rather wolves tearing, than shepherds feeding, the flock;
‘slip-string’ = pendard (Beaumont and Fletcher), ‘slip-gibbet’, ‘scapegallows’; all names given
to those who, however they might have escaped, were justly owed to the gallows, and might still
“go upstairs to bed”.

{Sidenote: Obsolete Compounds}

How many of these words occur in Shakespeare. The following list makes no pretence to completeness;
‘martext’, ‘carrytale’, ‘pleaseman’, ‘sneakcup’, ‘mumblenews’, ‘wantwit’, ‘lackbrain’, ‘lackbeard’,
‘lacklove’, ‘ticklebrain’, ‘cutpurse’, ‘cutthroat’, ‘crackhemp’, ‘breedbate’, ‘swinge-buckler’,
‘pickpurse’, ‘pickthank’, ‘picklock’, ‘scarecrow’, ‘breakvow’, ‘breakpromise’, ‘makepeace’--this
last and ‘telltruth’ (Fuller) being the only ones in the whole collection wherein reprobation
or contempt is not implied. Nor is the list exhausted yet; there are further ‘dingthrift’ =
prodigal (Herrick), ‘wastegood’ (Cotgrave), ‘stroygood’ (Golding), ‘wastethrift’ (Beaumont
and Fletcher), ‘scapethrift’, ‘swashbuckler’ (both in Holinshed), ‘shakebuckler’, ‘rinsepitcher’
(both in Bacon), ‘crackrope’ (Howell), ‘waghalter’, ‘wagfeather’ (both in Cotgrave), ‘blabtale’
(Racket), ‘getnothing’ (Adams), ‘findfault’ (Florio), ‘tearthroat’ (Gayton), ‘marprelate’,
‘spitvenom’, ‘nipcheese’, ‘nipscreed’, ‘killman’ (Chapman), ‘lackland’, ‘pickquarrel’, ‘pickfaults’,
‘pickpenny’ (Henry More), ‘makefray’ (Bishop Hall), ‘make-debate’ (Richardson’s Letters), ‘kindlecoal’
(attise feu), ‘kindlefire’ (both in Gurnall), ‘turntippet’ (Cranmer), ‘swillbowl’ (Stubbs),
‘smell-smock’, ‘cumberwold’ (Drayton), ‘curryfavor’, ‘pinchfist’, ‘suckfist’, ‘hatepeace’ (Sylvester),
‘hategood’ (Bunyan), ‘clutchfist’, ‘sharkgull’ (both in Middleton), ‘makesport’ (Fuller), ‘hangdog’
(“Herod’s hangdogs in the tapestry”, Pope), ‘catchpoll’, ‘makeshift’ (used not impersonally
as now), ‘pickgoose’ (“the bookworm was never but a pickgoose”){162}, ‘killcow’ (these three
last in Gabriel Harvey), ‘rakeshame’ (Milton, prose), with others which it will be convenient
to omit. ‘Rakehell’, which used to be spelt ‘rakel’ or ‘rakle’ (Chaucer), a good English word,
would be only through an error included in this list, although Cowper, when he writes ‘rakehell’
(“rake-hell baronet”) evidently regarded it as belonging to this group{163}.

{Sidenote: Words become Vulgar}

Perhaps one of the most frequent causes which leads to the disuse of words is this: in some
inexplicable way there comes to be attached something of ludicrous, or coarse, or vulgar to
them, out of a feeling of which they are no longer used in earnest serious writing, and at
the same time fall out of the discourse of those who desire to speak elegantly. Not indeed
that this degradation which overtakes words is in all cases inexplicable. The unheroic character
of most men’s minds, with their consequent intolerance of that heroic which they cannot understand,
is constantly at work, too often with success, in taking down words of nobleness from their
high pitch; and, as the most effectual way of doing this, in casting an air of mock-heroic
about them. Thus ‘to dub’, a word resting on one of the noblest usages of chivalry, has now
something of ludicrous about it; so too has ‘doughty’; they belong to that serio-comic, mock-heroic
diction, the multiplication of which, as of all parodies on greatness, and the favour with
which it is received, is always a sign of evil augury for a nation, is at present a sign of
evil augury for our own.

‘Pate’ in the sense of head is now comic or ignoble; it was not so once; as is plain from its
occurrence in the Prayer Book Version of the Psalms (Ps. vii. 17); as little was ‘noddle’,
which occurs in one of the few poetical passages in Hawes. The same may be said of ‘sconce’,
in this sense at least; of ‘nowl’ or ‘noll’, which Wiclif uses; of ‘slops’ for trousers (Marlowe’s
Lucan); of ‘cocksure’ (Rogers), of ‘smug’, which once meant no more than adorned (“the smug
bridegroom”, Shakespeare). ‘To nap’ is now a word without dignity; while yet in Wiclif’s Bible
it is said, “Lo he schall not nappe, nether slepe that kepeth Israel” (Ps. cxxi. 4). ‘To punch’,
‘to thump’, both of which, and in serious writing, occur in Spenser, could not now obtain the
same use, nor yet ‘to wag’, or ‘to buss’. Neither would any one now say that at Lystra Barnabas
and Paul “rent their clothes and skipped out among the people” (Acts xiv. 14), which is the
language that Wiclif employs; nor yet that “the Lord trounced Sisera and all his host” as it
stands in the Bible of 1551. “A sight of angels”, for which phrase see Cranmer’s Bible (Heb.
xii. 22), would be felt as a vulgarism now. We should scarcely call now a delusion of Satan
a “flam of the devil” (Henry More). It is not otherwise in regard of phrases. “Through thick
and thin”, occurring in Spenser, “cheek by jowl” in Dubartas{164}, do not now belong to serious
poetry. In the glorious ballad of Chevy Chase, a noble warrior whose legs are hewn off, is
described as being “in doleful dumps”; just as, in Holland’s Livy, the Romans are set forth
as being “in the dumps” as a consequence of their disastrous defeat at Cannæ. In Golding’s
Ovid, one fears that he will “go to pot”. In one of the beautiful letters of John Careless,
preserved in Foxe’s Martyrs, a persecutor, who expects a recantation from him, is described
as “in the wrong box”. And in the sermons of Barrow, who certainly intended to write an elevated
style, and did not seek familiar, still less vulgar, expressions, we constantly meet such terms
as ‘to rate’, ‘to snub’, ‘to gull’, ‘to pudder’, ‘dumpish’, and the like; which we may confidently
affirm were not vulgar when he used them.

Then too the advance of refinement causes words to be forgone, which are felt to speak too
plainly. It is not here merely that one age has more delicate ears than another; and that matters
are freely spoken of at one time which at another are withdrawn from conversation. This is
something; but besides this, and even if this delicacy were at a standstill, there would still
be a continual process going on, by which the words, which for a certain while have been employed
to designate coarse or disagreeable facts or things, would be disallowed, or at all events
relinquished to the lower class of society, and others adopted in their place. The former by
long use being felt to have come into too direct and close relation with that which they designate,
to summon it up too distinctly before the mind’s eye, they are thereupon exchanged for others,
which, at first at least, indicate more lightly and allusively the offensive thing, rather
hint and suggest than paint and describe it: although by and by these new will also in their
turn be discarded, and for exactly the same reasons which brought about the dismissal of those
which they themselves superseded. It lies in the necessity of things that I must leave this
part of my subject, very curious as it is, without illustration{165}. But no one, even moderately
acquainted with the early literature of the Reformation, can be ignorant of words freely used
in it, which now are not merely coarse and as such under ban, but which no one would employ
who did not mean to speak impurely and vilely.

       *       *       *       *       *

{Sidenote: Lost Powers of a Language}

Thus much in respect of the words, and the character of the words, which we have lost or let
go. Of these, indeed, if a language, as it travels onwards, loses some, it also acquires others,
and probably many more than it loses; they are leaves on the tree of language, of which if
some fall away, a new succession takes their place. But it is not so, as I already observed,
with the forms or powers of a language, that is, with the various inflections, moods, duplicate
or triplicate formation of tenses; which the speakers of a language come gradually to perceive
that they can do without, and therefore cease to employ; seeking to suppress grammatical intricacies,
and to obtain grammatical simplicity and so far as possible a pervading uniformity, sometimes
even at the hazard of letting go what had real worth, and contributed to the more lively, if
not to the clearer, setting forth of the inner thought or feeling of the mind. Here there is
only loss, with no compensating gain; or, at all events, diminution only, and never addition.
In regard of these inner forces and potencies of a language, there is no creative energy at
work in its later periods, in any, indeed, but quite the earliest. They are not as the leaves,
but may be likened to the stem and leading branches of a tree, whose shape, mould and direction
are determined at a very early stage of its growth; and which age, or accident, or violence
may diminish, but which can never be multiplied. I have already slightly referred to a notable
example of this, namely, to the dropping of the dual number in the Greek language. Thus in
all the New Testament it does not once occur, having quite fallen out of the common dialect
in which that is composed. Elsewhere too it has been felt that the dual was not worth preserving,
or at any rate, that no serious inconvenience would follow on its loss. There is no such number
in the modern German, Danish or Swedish; in the old German and Norse there was.

{Sidenote: Extinction of Powers}

