NEW JUVENILE LIBRARY.

                      The

                     STORY

                     of the

                  WHITE MOUSE.

                Embellished With
          Four Elegant Copperplates.
          A New and Correct Edition.

                    LONDON:
          Printed for the Booksellers.
                     1816.

  The
  STORY
  of the
  WHITE MOUSE.

In the kingdom of Bonbobbin, which, by the Chinese annals, appears to have flourished twenty
thousand years ago, there reigned a prince, endowed with every accomplishment which generally
distinguishes the sons of kings. His beauty was brighter than the sun. The sun, to which he
was nearly related, would sometimes stop his course, in order to look down and admire him.

His mind was not less perfect than his body; he knew all things without having ever read; philosophers,
poets, and historians, submitted their works to his decision; and so penetrating was he, that
he could tell the merit of a book by looking on the cover. He made epic poems, tragedies, and
pastorals, with surprising facility; song, epigram, or rebus, was all one to him; though, it
is observed, he could never finish an acrostick. In short, the fairy who presided at his birth
had endowed him with almost every perfection; or, what was just the same, his subjects were
ready to acknowledge he possessed them all; and, for his own part, he knew nothing to the contrary.
A prince so accomplished, received a name suitable to his merit; and he was called Bonbenin-bonbobbin-bonbobbinet,
which signifies Enlightener of the Sun.

As he was very powerful, and yet unmarried, all the neighbouring kings earnestly sought his
alliance. Each sent his daughter, dressed out in the most magnificent manner, and with the
most sumptuous retinue imaginable, in order to allure the prince; so that, at one time, there
were seen at his court, not less than seven hundred foreign princesses, of exquisite sentiment
and beauty, each alone sufficient to make seven hundred ordinary men happy.

Distracted in such a variety, the generous Bonbenin, had he not been obliged by the laws of
the empire to make choice of one, would very willingly have married them all, for none understood
gallantry better. He spent numberless hours of solicitude, in endeavouring to determine whom
he should choose. One lady was possessed of every perfection, but he disliked her eye-brows;
another was brighter than the morning-star, but he disapproved her fong-whang; a third did
not lay enough of white on her cheek; and a fourth did not sufficiently blacken her nails.
At last, after numberless disappointments on the one side and the other, he made choice of
the incomparable Nanhoa, queen of the Scarlet Dragons.

The preparations for the royal nuptials, or the envy of the disappointed ladies, needs no description;
both the one and the other were as great as they could be. The beautiful princess was conducted,
amidst admiring multitudes, to the royal couch, where, after being divested of every encumbering
ornament, he came more chearful than the morning; and printing on her lips a burning kiss,
the attendants took this as a proper signal to withdraw.

Perhaps I ought to have mentioned in the beginning, that, among several other qualifications,
the prince was fond of collecting and breeding mice, which being an harmless pastime, none
of his counsellors thought proper to dissuade him from; he therefore kept a great variety of
these pretty little animals in the most beautiful cages, enriched with diamonds, rubies, emeralds,
pearls, and other precious stones. Thus he innocently spent four hours each day in contemplating
their innocent little pastimes.

But, to proceed, the prince and princess now retired to repose; and though night and secrecy
had drawn the curtain, yet delicacy retarded those enjoyments which passion presented to their
view. The prince happening to look towards the outside of the bed, perceived one of the most
beautiful animals in the world, a white mouse with green eyes, playing about the floor, and
performing an hundred pretty tricks. He was already master of blue mice, red mice, and even
white mice with yellow eyes; but a white mouse with green eyes, was what he long endeavoured
to possess: whereupon, leaping from bed, with the utmost impatience and agility, the youthful
prince attempted to seize the little charmer; but it was fled in a moment; for, alas! the mouse
was sent by a discontented princess, and was itself a fairy.

It is impossible to describe the agony of the prince upon this occasion. He sought round and
round every part of the room, even the bed where the princess lay was not exempt from the inquiry;
he turned the princess on one side and the other, stripped her quite naked, but no mouse was
to be found; the princess herself was kind enough to assist, but still to no purpose.

"Alas!" cried the young prince in an agony, "how unhappy am I to be thus disappointed! never
sure was so beautiful an animal seen; I would give half my kingdom and my princess to him that
would find it." The princess, though not much pleased with the latter part of his offer, endeavoured
to comfort him as well as she could; she let him know he had an hundred mice already, which
ought to be at least sufficient to satisfy any philosopher like him. Though none of them had
green eyes, yet he should learn to thank Heaven that they had eyes. She told him (for she was
a profound moralist,) that incurable evils must be borne, and that useless lamentations were
vain, and that man was born to misfortunes; she even intreated him to return to bed, and she
would endeavour to lull him on her bosom to repose; but still the prince continued inconsolable;
and, regarding her with a stern air, for which his family was remarkable, he vowed never to
sleep in a royal palace, or indulge himself in the innocent pleasures of matrimony, till he
had found the white mouse with green eyes.

When morning came, he published an edict, offering half his kingdom, and his princess, to that
person who should catch and bring him the white mouse with green eyes.

The edict was scarce published, when all the traps in the kingdom were baited with cheese;
numberless mice were taken and destroyed, but still the much-wished-for mouse was not among
the number. The privy council were assembled more than once to give their advice; but all their
deliberations came to nothing, even though there were two complete vermin-killers, and three
professed rat-catchers, of the number. Frequent addresses, as is usual on extraordinary occasions,
were sent from all parts of the empire; but, though these promised well, though in them he
received an assurance that his faithful subjects would assist in his search with their lives
and fortunes, yet, with all their loyalty, they failed, when the time came that the mouse was
to be caught.

The prince, therefore, was resolved to go himself in search, determined never to lie two nights
in one place, till he had found what he sought for. Thus, quitting his palace without attendants,
he set out upon his journey, and travelled through many a desert, and crossed many a river,
high over hills, and down along vales, still restless, still inquiring wherever he came, but
no white mouse was to be found.

As one day, fatigued with his journey, he was shading himself from the heat of the mid-day
sun, under the arching branches of a Banana tree, meditating on the object of his pursuit,
he perceived an old woman hideously deformed approaching him; by her stoop, and the wrinkles
of her visage, she seemed at least five hundred years old; and the spotted toad was not more
freckled than was her skin. "Ah! Prince Bonbenin-bonbobbin-bonbobbinet," cried the creature,
"what has led you so many thousand miles from your own kingdom? What is it you look for, and
what induces you to travel into the kingdom of the Emmets?" The prince, who was excessively
complaisant, told her the whole story three times over, for she was hard of hearing. "Well,"
says the old fairy, for such she was, "I promise to put you in possession of the white mouse
with green eyes, and that immediately too, upon one condition." "One condition," replied the
prince in a rapture, "name a thousand; I shall undergo them all with pleasure." "Nay," interrupted
the old fairy, "I ask but one, and that not very mortifying neither; it is only that you instantly
consent to marry me."

It is impossible to express the prince's confusion at this demand; he loved the mouse, but
he detested the bride; he hesitated; he desired time to think upon the proposal. He would have
been glad to consult his friends on such an occasion. "Nay, nay," cried the odious fairy, "if
you demur, I retract my promise; I do not desire to force my favours on any man. Here, you
my attendants, (cried she, stamping with her foot,) let my machine be driven up; Barbacela,
queen of Emmets, is not used to contemptuous treatment." She had no sooner spoken than her
fiery chariot appeared in the air, drawn by two snails; and she was just going to step in,
when the prince reflected that now or never was the time to be in possession of the white mouse;
and, quite forgetting his lawful princess Nanhoa, falling on his knees, he implored forgiveness
for having rashly rejected so much beauty. This well-timed compliment instantly appeased the
angry fairy. She affected an hideous leer of approbation, and taking the young prince by the
hand, conducted him to a neighbouring church, where they were married together in a moment.
As soon as the ceremony was performed, the prince, who was to the last degree desirous of seeing
his favourite mouse, reminded the bride of her promise. "To confess a truth, my prince," cried
she, "I myself am that very white mouse you saw on your wedding night in the royal apartment.
I now therefore give you your choice, whether you would have me a mouse by day, and a woman
by night, or a mouse by night, and a woman by day." Though the prince was an excellent casuist,
he was quite at a loss how to determine; but at last thought it most prudent to have recourse
to a blue cat, that had followed him from his own dominions, and frequently amused him with
its conversation, and assisted him with its advice; in fact this cat was no other than the
faithful Princess Nanhoa herself, who had shared with him all his hardships in this disguise.

By her instructions he was determined in his choice; and returning to the old fairy, prudently
observed, that, as she must have been sensible he had married her only for the sake of what
she had, and not for her personal qualifications, he thought it would, for several reasons,
be most convenient if she continued a woman by day, and appeared a mouse by night.

The old fairy was a good deal mortified at her husband's want of gallantry, though she was
reluctantly obliged to comply; the day was therefore spent in the most polite amusement, the
gentlemen talked, the ladies laughed, and were angry. At last the happy night drew near; the
blue cat still stuck by the side of its master, and even followed him to the bridal apartment.
Barbacela entered the chamber, wearing a train fifteen yards long, supported by porcupines,
and all over beset with jewels, which served to render her more detestable. She was just stepping
into bed to the prince, forgetting her promise, when he insisted on seeing her in the shape
of a mouse. She had promised, and no fairy can break her word; wherefore, assuming the figure
of the most beautiful mouse in the world, she skipped and played about with an infinity of
amusement. The prince, in an agony of rapture, was desirous of seeing his pretty play-fellow
move a slow dance about the floor to his own singing; he began to sing, and the mouse immediately
to perform with the most perfect knowledge of time, and the finest grace, and greatest gravity
imaginable; it only began, for Nanhoa, who had long waited for the opportunity, in the shape
of a cat, flew upon it instantly without remorse, and eating it up in the hundredth part of
a moment, broke the charm, and then resumed her natural figure.

The prince now found that he had all along been under the power of enchantment; that his passion
for the white mouse was entirely fictitious, and not the genuine complexion of his soul; he
now saw, that his earnestness after mice was an illiberal amusement, and much more becoming
a rat-catcher than a prince. All his meannesses now stared him in the face; he begged the princess's
pardon an hundred times. The princess very readily forgave him; and both returning to their
palace at Bonbobbin, lived very happily together, and reigned many years, with all that wisdom,
which, by the story, they appear to have been possessed of; perfectly convinced by their former
adventures, that they who place their affections on trifles at first for amusement, will find
these trifles at last become their most serious concern. In short, he was extremely honoured
and cherished by every one.

The head of the dervises remembered every word of the discourse between the fairies and the
genies, who were very silent all the night after. "Yes, sir," replies he, very gravely, "if
I do not mistake it, it is the disease of the princess which procures this honour that I have
not deserved." "That is the very thing," replied the sultan. After he had given this charge
to the officer, he bid the envious man farewell, and proceeded on his march.

  The
  STORY
  of the
  GOLDEN HEAD.

Remember this story, and take care whom you trust; but do not be covetous, sordid, and miserable;
for the gold we have, is but lent us to do good with. We receive all from the hand of God,
and every person in distress hath a just title to a portion of it.

FINIS.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

  Errors and Anomalies (noted by transcriber):

  These spellings are standard for the book:
    acrostick, chearful
    dervise [for dervish], Lybia, Scheich [for sheikh?], Visier

  he came more chearful than the morning  [text unchanged]
  but no white mouse was to be found.  [. missing or invisible]
  the arching branches of a Banana tree
    [text unchanged, but author may have intended "Banyan"]
  come near her a second time."  [closing " missing]
  the discourse between the fairies and the genies  [faries]
    [the words "fairy" and "fairies" occur many times]
  twenty load of the richest merchandise
    [text unchanged: usage may be normal for 1816]

