CAPTAIN CANOT;

                      OR,

       TWENTY YEARS OF AN AFRICAN SLAVER

              BEING AN ACCOUNT OF

     HIS CAREER AND ADVENTURES ON THE COAST,
      IN THE INTERIOR, ON SHIPBOARD, AND IN
                THE WEST INDIES.

        WRITTEN OUT AND EDITED FROM THE

Captain's Journals, Memoranda and Conversations,

                       BY

                  BRANTZ MAYER.

NEW YORK: D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 846 & 848 BROADWAY. LONDON: 16 LITTLE BRITAIN. M.DCCC.LIV.

ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by

BRANTZ MAYER,

in the Clerk's Office of the United States District Court for the District of Maryland.

TO

N. P. WILLIS,

OF IDLEWILD.

MY DEAR WILLIS,

While inscribing this work with your name, as a testimonial of our long, unbroken friendship,
you will let me say, I am sure, not only how, but why I have written it.

About a year ago I was introduced to its hero, by Dr. James Hall, the distinguished founder
and first governor of our colony at Cape Palmas. While busy with his noble task in Africa,
Dr. Hall accidentally became acquainted with Captain Canot, during his residence at Cape Mount,
and was greatly impressed in his favor by the accounts of all who knew him. Indeed,--setting
aside his career as a slaver,--Dr. Hall's observation convinced him that Canot was a man of
unquestionable integrity. The zeal, moreover, with which he embraced the first opportunity,
after his downfall, to mend his fortunes by honorable industry in South America, entitled him
to respectful confidence. As their acquaintance ripened, my friend gradually drew from the
wanderer the story of his adventurous life, and so striking were its incidents, so true its
delineations of African character, that he advised the captain to prepare a copious memorandum,
which I should write out for the public.

Let me tell you why I undertook this task; but first, let me assure you that, entertaining
as the story might have been for a large class of readers, I would not have composed a line
for the mere gratification of scandalous curiosity. My conversations with Canot satisfied me
that his disclosures were more thoroughly candid than those of any one who has hitherto related
his connection with the traffic. I thought that the evidence of one who, for twenty years,
played the chief part in such a drama, was of value to society, which, is making up its mind,
not only about a great political and domestic problem, but as to the nature of the race itself.
I thought that a true picture of aboriginal Africa,--unstirred by progress,--unmodified by
reflected civilization,--full of the barbarism that blood and tradition have handed down from
the beginning, and embalmed in its prejudices, like the corpses of Egypt,--could not fail to
be of incalculable importance to philanthropists who regard no people as beyond the reach of
enlightenment.

The completed task rises before me like a moving panorama whose scenery and background are
the ocean and tropics, and whose principal actor combines the astuteness of Fouché with the
dexterity of Gil Blas. I have endeavored to set forth his story as plainly as possible, letting
events instead of descriptions develope a chequered life which was incessantly connected with
desperate men of both colors. As he unmasked his whole career, and gave me leave to use the
incidents, I have not dared to hide what the actor himself displayed no wish to conceal. Besides
the sketches of character which familiarize us with the aboriginal negro in Africa, there is
a good moral in the resultless life, which, after all its toils, hazards, and successes leaves
the adventurer a stranded wreck in the prime of manhood. One half the natural capacity, employed
industriously in lawful commerce, would have made the captain comfortable and independent.
Nor is there much to attract in the singular abnegation of civilized happiness in a slaver's
career. We may not be surprised, that such an animal as Da Souza, who is portrayed in these
pages, should revel in the sensualities of Dahomey; but we must wonder at the passive endurance
that could chain a superior order of man, like Don Pedro Blanco, for fifteen unbroken years,
to his pestilential hermitage, till the avaricious anchorite went forth from the marshes of
Gallinas, laden with gold. I do not think this story is likely to seduce or educate a race
of slavers!

The frankness of Canot's disclosures may surprise the more reserved and timid classes of society;
but I am of opinion that there is an ethnographic value in the account of his visit to the
Mandingoes and Fullahs, and especially in his narrative of the wars, jugglery, cruelty, superstition,
and crime, by which one sixth of Africa subjects the remaining five sixths to servitude.

As the reader peruses these characteristic anecdotes, he will ask himself how,--in the progress
of mankind,--such a people is to be approached and dealt with? Will the Mahometanism of the
North which is winning its way southward, and infusing itself among the crowds of central Africa,
so as, in some degree, to modify their barbarism, prepare the primitive tribes to receive a
civilization and faith which are as true as they are divine? Will our colonial fringe spread
its fibres from the coast to the interior, and, like veins of refreshing blood, pour new currents
into the mummy's heart? Is there hope for a nation which, in three thousand years, has hardly
turned in its sleep? The identical types of race, servitude, occupation, and character that
are now extant in Africa, may be found on the Egyptian monuments built forty centuries ago;
while a Latin poem, attributed to Virgil, describes a menial negress who might unquestionably
pass for a slave of our Southern plantations:

    "Interdum clamat Cybalen; erat unica custos;
    Afra genus, tota patriam testante figura;
    Torta comam, labroque tumens, et fusca colorem;
    Pectore lata, jacens mammis, compressior alvo,
    Cruribus exilis, spatiosa prodiga planta;
    Continuis rimis calcanea scissa rigebant."[1]

It will be seen from these hints that our memoir has nothing to do with slavery as a North
American institution, except so far as it is an inheritance from the system it describes; yet,
in proportion as the details exhibit an innate or acquired inferiority of the negro race in
its own land, they must appeal to every generous heart in behalf of the benighted continent.

It has lately become common to assert that Providence permits an exodus through slavery, in
order that the liberated negro may in time return, and, with foreign acquirements, become the
pioneer of African civilization. It is attempted to reconcile us to this "good from evil,"
by stopping inquiry with the "inscrutability of God's ways!" But we should not suffer ourselves
to be deceived by such imaginary irreverence; for, in God's ways, there is nothing less inscrutable
than his law of right. That law is never qualified in this world. It moves with the irresistible
certainty of organized nature, and, while it makes man free, in order that his responsibility
may be unquestionable, it leaves mercy, even, for the judgment hereafter. Such a system of
divine law can never palliate the African slave trade, and, in fact, it is the basis of that
human legislation which converts the slaver into a pirate, and awards him a felon's doom.

For these reasons, we should discountenance schemes like those proposed not long ago in England,
and sanctioned by the British government, for the encouragement of spontaneous emigration from
Africa under the charge of contractors. The plan was viewed with fear by the colonial authorities,
and President Roberts at once issued a proclamation to guard the natives. No one, I think,
will read this book without a conviction that the idea of voluntary expatriation has not dawned
on the African mind, and, consequently, what might begin in laudable philanthropy would be
likely to end in practical servitude.

Intercourse, trade, and colonization, in slow but steadfast growth, are the providences intrusted
to us for the noble task of civilization. They who are practically acquainted with the colored
race of our country, have long believed that gradual colonization was the only remedy for Africa
as well as America. The repugnance of the free blacks to emigration from our shores has produced
a tardy movement, and thus the African population has been thrown back grain by grain, and
not wave by wave. Every one conversant with the state of our colonies, knows how beneficial
this languid accretion has been. It moved many of the most enterprising, thrifty, and independent.
It established a social nucleus from the best classes of American colored people. Like human
growth, it allowed the frame to mature in muscular solidity. It gave immigrants time to test
the climate; to learn the habit of government in states as well as in families; to acquire
the bearing of freemen; to abandon their imitation of the whites among whom they had lived;
and thus, by degrees, to consolidate a social and political system which may expand into independent
and lasting nationality. Instead, therefore, of lamenting the slowness with which the colonies
have reached their vigorous promise, we should consider it a blessing that the vicious did
not rush forth in turbulent crowds with the worthy, and impede the movements of better folks,
who were still unused to the task of self-reliance.

Men are often too much in a hurry to do good, and mar by excessive zeal what patience would
complete. "Deus quies quia æternus," saith St. Augustine. The cypress is a thousand years in
growth, yet its limbs touch not the clouds, save on a mountain top. Shall the regeneration
of a continent be quicker than its ripening? That would be miracle--not progress.

Accept this offering, my dear Willis, as a token of that sincere regard, which, during an intimacy
of a quarter of a century, has never wavered in its friendly trust.

    Faithfully, yours,

    BRANTZ MAYER.

    BALTIMORE, 1st July, 1854.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] MORETUM,--Carm. Virg. Wagner's ed. vol. 4, p. 301.

CONTENTS.

                                                                  PAGE
 CHAP. I.--My parentage and education--Apprenticed at Leghorn to
 an American captain--First voyage--its mishaps--overboard--black
 cook--Sumatra--cabin-boy--Arrival in Boston--My first
 command--View of Boston harbor from the mast-head--My first
 interview with a Boston merchant, WILLIAM GRAY                      1

 CHAP. II.--My uncle tells my adventure with LORD BYRON--CAPTAIN
 TOWNE, and my life in Salem--My skill in Latin--Five years
 voyaging from Salem--I rescue a Malay girl at Quallahbattoo--The
 first slave I ever saw--End of my apprenticeship--My backslidings
 in Antwerp and Paris--Ship on a British vessel for Brazil--The
 captain and his wife--Love, grog, and grumbling--A scene in the
 harbor of Rio--Matrimonial happiness--Voyage to Europe--Wreck
 and loss on the coast near Ostend                                  10

 CHAP. III.--I design going to South America--A Dutch galliot
 for Havana--Male and female captain--Run foul of in the Bay
 of Biscay--Put into Ferrol, in Spain--I am appropriated by
 a new mother, grandmother, and sisters--A comic scene--How
 I got out of the scrape--Set sail for Havana--Jealousy of
 the captain--Deprived of my post--Restored--Refuse to do
 duty--Its sad consequences--Wrecked on a reef near
 Cuba--Fisherman-wreckers--Offer to land cargo--Make a bargain
 with our salvors--A sad denouement--A night bath and escape      19

