A
               PRACTICAL VIEW
                   OF THE
         PREVAILING RELIGIOUS SYSTEM
                     OF
            PROFESSED CHRISTIANS,
                   IN THE
          HIGHER AND MIDDLE CLASSES
                  IN THIS
                  COUNTRY,
              CONTRASTED WITH
             REAL CHRISTIANITY.

        By WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, Esq;
Member of Parliament for the County of York.

Search the Scriptures!----          JOHN, v. 39.

                  DUBLIN:
         Printed by Robert Dapper,
    FOR B. DUGDALE, NO. 6, DAME-STREET.

                M.DCC.XCVII.

INTRODUCTION.

It has been, for several years, the earnest wish of the writer of the following pages to address
his countrymen on the important subject of Religion; but the various duties of his public station,
and a constitution incapable of much labour, have obstructed the execution of his purpose.
Long has he been looking forward to some vacant season, in which he might devote his whole
time and attention to this interesting service, free from the interruption of all other concerns;
and he has the rather wished for this opportunity of undistracted and mature reflection, from
a desire that what he might send into the world might thus be rendered less undeserving of
the public eye. Meanwhile life is wearing away, and he daily becomes more and more convinced,
that he might wait in vain for this season of complete vacancy. He must, therefore, improve
such occasional intervals of leisure as may occur to him in the course of a busy life, and
throw himself on the Reader's indulgence for the pardon of such imperfections, as the opportunity
of undiverted and more mature attention might have enabled him to discover and correct.

But the plea here suggested is by no means intended as an excuse for the opinions which he
shall express, if they be found mistaken. Here, if he be in an error, it is however a deliberate
error. He would indeed account himself unpardonable, if he were to intrude his first thoughts
upon the Public on a question of such importance; and he can truly declare, that what he shall
offer will be the result of much reading, observation, and inquiry, and of long, serious, and
repeated consideration.

It is not improbable that he may be accused of deviating from his proper line, and of impertinently
interfering in the concerns of a Profession to which he does not belong. If it were necessary,
however, to defend himself against this charge, he might shelter himself under the authority
of many most respectable examples. But surely to such an accusation it may be sufficient to
reply, that it is the duty of every man to promote the happiness of his fellow-creatures to
the utmost of his power; and that he who thinks he sees many around him, whom he esteems and
loves, labouring under a fatal error, must have a cold heart, or a most confined notion of
benevolence, if he could refrain from endeavouring to set them right, lest in so doing he should
be accused of stepping out of his proper walk, and expose himself on that ground to the imputation
of officiousness.

But he might also allege as a full justification, not only that Religion is the business of
every one, but that its advancement or decline in any country is so intimately connected with
the temporal interests of society, as to render it the peculiar concern of a political man;
and that what he may presume to offer on the subject of Religion may perhaps be perused with
less jealousy and more candour, from the very circumstance of its having been written by a
Layman, which must at least exclude the idea (an idea sometimes illiberally suggested to take
off the effect of the works of Ecclesiastics) that it is prompted by motives of self-interest,
or of professional prejudice.

But if the writer's apology be not found in the work itself, and in his avowed motive for undertaking
it, he would in vain endeavour to satisfy his readers by any excuses he might assign; therefore,
without farther preamble, he will proceed to the statement and execution of his purpose.

The main object which he has in view is, not to convince the Sceptic, or to answer the arguments
of persons who avowedly oppose the fundamental doctrines of our Religion; but to point out
the scanty and erroneous system of the bulk of those who belong to the class of orthodox Christians,
and to contrast their defective scheme with a representation of what the author apprehends
to be real Christianity. Often has it filled him with deep concern, to observe in this description
of persons, scarcely any distinct knowledge of the real nature and principles of the religion
which they profess. The subject is of infinite importance; let it not be driven out of our
minds by the bustle or dissipations of life. This present scene, and all its cares and all
its gaieties, will soon be rolled away, and "we must stand before the judgment seat of Christ."
This awful consideration will prompt the writer to express himself with greater freedom than
he should otherwise be disposed to use. This consideration he trusts, also, will justify his
frankness, and will secure him a serious and patient perusal. But it would be trespassing on
the indulgence of the reader to detain him with introductory remarks. Let it only be farther
premised, that if what shall be stated should to any appear needlessly austere and rigid, the
writer must lay in his claim not to be condemned, without a fair inquiry whether or not his
statements accord with the language of the sacred writings. To that test he refers with confidence;
and it must be conceded by those who admit the authority of Scripture (such only he is addressing)
that from the decision of the word of God there can be no appeal.

CONTENTS.

                                                              Page

INTRODUCTION.                                                    v

CHAP. I. Inadequate Conceptions of the Importance of Christianity.      1

CHAP. II. Corruption of Human Nature.                                   14

CHAP. III. Chief Defects of the Religious System of the bulk of professed Christians, in what
regards our Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Spirit--with a Dissertation concerning the use
of the Passions in Religion.                                   43

CHAP. IV. On the prevailing inadequate Conceptions concerning the Nature and the Strictness
of Practical Christianity.          100

CHAP. V. On the Excellence of Christianity in certain important Particulars. Argument which
results thence in Proof of its Divine Origin.                                                252

CHAP. VI. Brief Inquiry into the present State of Christianity in this Country, with some of
the Causes which have led to its critical Circumstances. Its Importance to us as a political
Community, and practical Hints for which the foregoing Considerations give occasion.      
262

CHAP. VII. Practical Hints to various Descriptions of Persons.          305

A PRACTICAL VIEW, &c.

CHAPTER I.

INADEQUATE CONCEPTIONS OF THE IMPORTANCE OF CHRISTIANITY.

Popular Notions.--Scripture Account.--Ignorance in this Case criminal.--Two false Maxims exposed.

Before we proceed to the consideration of any particular defects in the religious system of
the bulk of professed Christians, it may be proper to point out the very inadequate conception
which they entertain of the importance of Christianity in general, of its peculiar nature,
and superior excellence. If we listen to their conversation, virtue is praised, and vice is
censured; piety is perhaps applauded, and profaneness condemned. So far all is well. But let
any one, who would not be deceived, by these "barren generalities" examine a little more closely,
and he will find, that not to Christianity in particular, but at best to Religion in general,
perhaps to mere Morality, their homage is intended to be paid. With Christianity, as distinct
from these, they are little acquainted; their views of it have been so cursory and superficial,
that far from discerning its characteristic essence, they have little more than perceived those
exterior circumstances which distinguish it from other forms of Religion. There are some few
facts, and perhaps some leading doctrines and principles, of which they cannot be wholly ignorant;
but of the consequences, and relations, and practical uses of these, they have few ideas, or
none at all.

Does this seem too strong? View their plan of life and their ordinary conduct; and not to speak
at present of their general inattention to things of a religious nature, let us ask, wherein
can we discern the points of discrimination between them and professed unbelievers? In an age
wherein it is confessed and lamented that infidelity abounds, do we observe in them any remarkable
care to instruct their children in the principles of the faith which they profess, and to furnish
them with arguments for the defence of it? They would blush, on their child's coming out into
the world, to think him defective in any branch of that knowledge, or of those accomplishments
which belong to his station in life, and accordingly these are cultivated with becoming assiduity.
But he is left to collect his religion as he may; the study of Christianity has formed no part
of his education, and his attachment to it (where any attachment to it exists at all) is, too
often, not the preference of sober reason, but merely the result of early prejudice and groundless
prepossession. He was born in a Christian country, of course he is a Christian; his father
was a member of the church of England, so is he. When such is the hereditary religion handed
down from generation to generation, it cannot surprise us to observe young men of sense and
spirit beginning to doubt altogether of the truth of the system in which they have been brought
up, and ready to abandon a station which they are unable to defend. Knowing Christianity chiefly
in the difficulties which it contains, and in the impossibilities which are falsely imputed
to it, they fall perhaps into the company of infidels; and, as might be expected, they are
shaken by frivolous objections and profane cavils, which, had they been grounded and bottomed
in reason and argument, would have passed by them, "as the idle wind," and scarcely have seemed
worthy of serious notice.

Let us beware before it be too late. No one can say into what discredit Christianity may hereby
grow, at a time when the free and unrestrained intercourse, subsisting amongst the several
ranks and classes of society, so much favours the general diffusion of the sentiments of the
higher orders. To a similar ignorance is perhaps in no small degree to be ascribed the success,
with which Christianity has been attacked of late years in a neighbouring country. Had she
not been wholly unarmed for the contest, however she might have been forced from her untenable
posts, and compelled to disembarrass herself from her load of incumbrances, she never could
have been driven altogether out of the field by her puny assailants, with all their cavils,
and gibes, and sarcasms; for in these consisted the main strength of their petty artillery.
Let us beware, lest we also suffer from a like cause; nor let it be our crime and our reproach,
that in schools, perhaps even in Colleges, Christianity is almost if not altogether neglected.

It cannot be expected, that they who are so little attentive to this great object in the education
of their children, should be more so in other parts of their conduct, where less strongly stimulated
by affection, and less obviously loaded with responsibility. They are of course therefore,
little regardful of the state of Christianity in their own country; and still more indifferent
about communicating the light of divine truth to the nations which "still sit in darkness."

But Religion, it may be replied, is not noisy and ostentatious; it is modest and private in
its nature; it resides in a man's own bosom, and shuns the observation of the multitude. Be it so.

From the transient and distant view then, which we have been taking of these unassuming Christians,
let us approach a little nearer, and listen to the unreserved conversation of their confidential
hours. Here, if any where, the interior of the heart is laid open, and we may ascertain the
true principles of their regards and aversions; the scale by which they measure the good and
evil of life. Here, however, you will discover few or no traces of Christianity. She scarcely
finds herself a place amidst the many objects of their hopes, and fears, and joys, and sorrows.
Grateful, perhaps, (as well indeed they may be grateful) for health, and talents, and affluence,
and other blessings belonging to their persons and conditions in life, they scarcely reckon
in the number this grand distinguishing mark of the bounty of Providence; or if they mention
it at all, it is noticed coldly and formally, like one of those obsolete claims to which, though
but of small account in the estimate of our wealth or power, we think it as well to put in
our title from considerations of family decorum or of national usage.

But what more than all the rest establishes the point in question: let their conversation take
a graver turn: here at length their religion, modest and retired as it is, must be expected
to disclose itself; here however you will look in vain for the religion of Jesus. Their standard
of right and wrong is not the standard of the gospel: they approve and condemn by a different
rule; they advance principles and maintain opinions altogether opposite to the genius and character
of Christianity. You would fancy yourself rather amongst the followers of the old philosophy;
nor is it easy to guess how any one could satisfy himself to the contrary, unless, by mentioning
the name of some acknowledged heretic, he should afford them an occasion of demonstrating their
zeal for the religion of their country.

The truth is, their opinions on these subjects are not formed from the perusal of the word
of God. The Bible lies on the shelf unopened; and they would be wholly ignorant of its contents,
except for what they hear occasionally at church, or for the faint traces which their memories
may still retain of the lessons of their earliest infancy.

How different, nay, in many respects, how contradictory, would be the two systems of mere morals,
of which the one should be formed from the commonly received maxims of the Christian world,
and the other from the study of the Holy Scriptures! it would be curious to remark in any one,
who had hitherto satisfied himself with the former, the astonishment which would be excited
on his first introduction to the latter. We are not left here to bare conjecture. This was,
in fact, the effect produced on the mind of a late ingenious writer[1], of whose little work,
though it bears perhaps some marks of his customary love of paradox, we must at least confess,
that it exposes, in a strong point of view, the poverty of that superficial religion which
has been above condemned; and that it every where displays that happy perspicuity, and grace,
which so eminently characterize all the compositions of its author. But after this willing
tribute of commendation, we are reluctantly compelled to remark, that the work in question
discredits the cause which it was meant to serve, by many crude and extravagant positions;
from which no one can be secure who forms a hasty judgment of a deep and comprehensive subject,
the several bearings and relations of which have been imperfectly surveyed; and above all,
it must be lamented, that it treats the great question which it professes to discuss, rather
as a matter of mere speculation, than as one wherein our everlasting interests are involved.
Surely the writer's object should have been, to convince his readers of their guilt still more
than of their ignorance, and to leave them impressed rather with a sense of their danger than
of their folly.

It were almost a waste of time to multiply arguments in order to prove how criminal the voluntary
ignorance, of which we have been speaking, must appear in the sight of God. It must be confessed
by all who believe that we are accountable creatures, and to such only the writer is addressing
himself, that we shall have to answer hereafter to the Almighty for all the means and occasions
we have here enjoyed of improving ourselves, or of promoting the happiness of others. And if,
when summoned to give an account of our stewardship, we shall be called upon to answer for
the use which we have made of our bodily organs, and of the means of relieving the wants and
necessities of our fellow creatures; how much more for the exercise of the nobler and more
exalted faculties of our nature, of invention, and judgment, and memory; and for our employment
of all the instruments and opportunities of diligent application, and serious reflection, and
honest decision. And to what subject might we in all reason be expected to apply more earnestly,
than to that wherein our eternal interests are at issue? When God has of his goodness vouchsafed
to grant us such abundant means of instruction in that which we are most concerned to know,
how great must be the guilt, and how aweful the punishment of voluntary ignorance!

And why, it may be asked, are we in this pursuit alone to expect knowledge without inquiry,
and success without endeavour? The whole analogy of nature inculcates on us a different lesson,
and our own judgments in matters of temporal interests and worldly policy confirm the truth
of her suggestions. Bountiful as is the hand of Providence, its gifts are not so bestowed as
to seduce us into indolence, but to rouse us to exertion; and no one expects to attain to the
height of learning, or arts, or power, or wealth, or military glory, without vigorous resolution,
and strenuous diligence, and steady perseverance. Yet we expect to be Christians without labour,
study, or inquiry. This is the more preposterous, because Christianity, being a revelation
from God, and not the invention of man, discovering to us new relations, with their correspondent
duties; containing also doctrines, and motives, and practical principles, and rules, peculiar
to itself, and almost as new in their nature as supreme in their excellence, we cannot reasonably
expect to become proficients in it by the accidental intercourses of life, as one might learn
insensibly the maxims of worldly policy, or a scheme of mere morals.

The diligent perusal of the Holy Scriptures would discover to us our past ignorance. We should
cease to be deceived by superficial appearances, and to confound the Gospel of Christ with
the systems of philosophers; we should become impressed with that weighty truth, so much forgotten,
and never to be too strongly insisted on, that Christianity calls on us, as we value our immortal
souls, not merely in general, to be religious and moral, but specially to believe the doctrines,
and imbibe the principles, and practise the precepts of Christ. It might be to run into too
great length to confirm this position beyond dispute by express quotations from Scripture.
And (not to anticipate what belongs more properly to a subsequent part of the work) it may
be sufficient here to remark in general, that Christianity is always represented in Scripture
as the grand, the unparalleled instance of God's bounty to mankind. It was graciously held
forth in the original promise to our first parents; it was predicted by a long continued series
of prophets; the subject of their prayers, inquiries, and longing expectations. In a world,
which opposed and persecuted them, it was their source of peace, and hope, and consolation.
It is every where represented in scripture by such figures as may most deeply impress on us
a sense of its value; it is spoken of as light from darkness, as release from prison, as deliverance
from captivity, as life from death. At one time, the communication of it is promised as a reward;
at another, the loss of it is threatened as a punishment. And, short as is the form of prayer
taught us by our blessed Saviour, the more general extension of the kingdom of Christ constitutes
one of its leading petitions.

With what exalted conceptions of the importance of Christianity ought we to be filled by such
descriptions as these? Yet, in vain have we "line upon line and precept upon precept."--Thus
predicted, thus prayed and longed for, thus announced and characterized and rejoiced in, this
heavenly treasure poured into our lap in rich abundance we scarce accept. We turn from it coldly,
or at best possess it negligently, as a thing of no account or estimation. But a due sense
of its value would be assuredly impressed on us by the diligent study of the word of God, that
blessed repository of divine truth and consolation. Thence it is that we are to learn our obligations
and our duty, what we are to believe and what to practise. And, surely, one would think it
could not be required to press men to the perusal of the sacred volume. Reason dictates, Revelation
commands; "Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God."--"Search the Scriptures,"--"Be
ready to give to every one a reason of the hope that is in you." Such are the declarations
and injunctions of the inspired writers; injunctions confirmed by commendations of those who
obey the admonition. Yet, is it not undeniable that with the Bible in our houses, we are ignorant
of its contents; and that hence, in a great measure, it arises, that the bulk of the Christian
world know so little, and mistake so greatly, in what regards the religion which they profess?

This is not the place for inquiring at large, whence it is that those who assent to the position,
that the Bible is the word of God, and who profess to rest their hopes on the Christian basis,
contentedly acquiesce in a state of such lamentable ignorance. But it may not be improper here
to touch on two kindred opinions, from which, in the minds of the more thoughtful and serious,
this acquiescence appears to derive much secret support. The one is, that it signifies little
what a man believes; look to his practice. The other (of the same family) that sincerity is
all in all. Let a man's opinions and conduct be what they may, yet, provided he be sincerely
convinced that they are right, however the exigencies of civil society may require him to be
dealt with amongst men, in the sight of God he cannot be criminal.

It would detain us too long fully to set forth the various merits of these favourite positions,
of which it is surely not the smallest excellence, that they are of unbounded application,
comprehending within their capacious limits, all the errors which have been believed, and many
of the most desperate crimes which have been perpetrated among men. The former of them is founded
altogether on that grossly fallacious assumption, that a man's opinions will not influence
his practice. The latter proceeds on this groundless supposition, that the Supreme Being has
not afforded us sufficient means of discriminating truth from falsehood, right from wrong:
and it implies, that be a man's opinions or conduct ever so wild and extravagant, we are to
presume, that they are as much the result of impartial inquiry and honest conviction, as if
his sentiments and actions had been strictly conformable to the rules of reason and sobriety.
Never indeed was there a principle more general in its use, more sovereign in its potency.
How does its beautiful simplicity also, and compendious brevity, give it rank before the laborious
subtleties of Bellarmine! Clement, and Ravaillac, and other worthies of a similar stamp, from
whose purity of intention the world has hitherto withheld its due tribute of applause, would
here have found a ready plea; and their injured innocence shall now at length receive its full
though tardy vindication. "These however," it may be replied, "are excepted cases." Certainly
they are cases of which any one who maintains the opinion in question would be glad to disencumber
himself; because they clearly expose the unsoundness of his principle. But it will be incumbent
on such an one, first to explain with precision why they are to be exempted from its operation,
and this he will find an impossible task; for sincerity, in its popular sense, so shamefully
is the term misapplied, can be made the criterion of guilt and innocence on no grounds, which
will not equally serve to justify the assassins who have been instanced. The conclusion cannot
be eluded; no man was ever more fully persuaded of the innocence of any action, than these
men were, that the horrid deed they were about to perpetrate was not lawful merely, but highly
meritorious. Thus Clement and Ravaillac being unquestionably sincere, they were therefore indubitably
innocent. Nay, the absurdity of this principle might be shewn to be even greater than what
has yet been stated. It would not be going too far to assert, that whilst it scorns the defence
of petty villains, of those who still retain the sense of good and evil, it holds forth, like
some well frequented sanctuary, a secure asylum to those more finished criminals, who, from
long habits of wickedness, are lost alike to the perception as to the practice of virtue; and
that it selects a seared conscience and a heart become callous to all moral distinctions as
the special objects of its care. Nor is it only in prophane history that instances like these
are to be found, of persons committing the greatest crimes with a sincere conviction of the
rectitude of their conduct. Scripture will afford us parallels; and it was surely to guard
us against the very error which we have been now exposing, that our blessed Saviour forewarned
his disciples: "The time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service."

A principle like this must then be abandoned, and the advocates for sincerity must be compelled
to restore this abused term to its genuine signification, and to acknowledge that it must imply
honesty of mind, and the faithful use of the means of knowledge and of improvement, the desire
of being instructed, humble inquiry, impartial consideration, and unprejudiced judgment. It
is to these we would earnestly call you; to these (ever to be accompanied with fervent prayers
for the divine blessing) Scripture every where holds forth the most animating promises. "Ask
and ye shall receive, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you; Ho! every
one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters;" such are the comfortable assurances, such the gracious
encouragements to the truly sincere inquirer. How deep will be our guilt if we slight all these
benevolent offers. "How many prophets and kings have desired to hear the things that we hear,
and have not heard them!" Great indeed are our opportunities, great also is our responsibility.
Let us awaken to a true sense of our situation. We have every consideration to alarm our fears,
or to animate our industry. How soon may the brightness of our meridian sun be darkened! Or,
should the long suffering of God still continue to us the mercies which we so much abuse, it
will only aggravate our crime, and in the end enhance our punishment. The time of reckoning
will at length arrive. And when finally summoned to the bar of God, to give an account of our
stewardship, what plea can we have to urge in our defence, if we remain willingly and obstinately
ignorant of the way which leads to life, with such transcendent means of knowing it, and such
urgent motives to its pursuit?

CHAPTER II.

CORRUPTION OF HUMAN NATURE.

SECT. I.

Inadequate Conceptions of the Corruption of Human Nature.

After considering the defective notions of the importance of Christianity in general, which
prevail among the higher orders of the Christian world, the particular misconceptions which
first come under our notice respect the corruption and weakness of human nature. This is a
topic on which it is possible that many of those, into whose hands the present work shall fall,
may not have bestowed much attention. If the case be so, it may be requisite to intreat them
to lend a patient and a serious ear. The subject is of the deepest import. We should not go
too far if we were to assert, that it lies at the very root of all true Religion, and still
more, that it is eminently the basis and ground-work of Christianity.

So far as the writer has had an opportunity of remarking, the generality of professed Christians
among the higher classes, either altogether overlook or deny, or at least greatly extenuate
the corruption and weakness here in question. They acknowledge indeed that there is, and ever
has been in the world, a great portion of vice and wickedness; that mankind have been ever
prone to sensuality and selfishness, in disobedience to the more refined and liberal principles
of their nature; that in all ages and countries, in public and in private life, innumerable
instances have been afforded of oppression, of rapacity, of cruelty, of fraud, of envy, and
of malice. They own that it is too often in vain that you inform the understanding, and convince
the judgment. They admit that you do not thereby reform the hearts of men. Though they know
their duty, they will not practice it; no not even when you have forced them to acknowledge
that the path of virtue is that also of real interest, and of solid enjoyment.

These facts are certain; they cannot be disputed; and they are at the same time so obvious,
that one would have thought that the celebrated apophthegm of the Grecian sage, "the majority
are wicked," would scarcely have established his claim to intellectual superiority.

But though these effects of human depravity are every where acknowledged and lamented, we must
not expect to find them traced to their true origin.

    Causa latet, vis est notissima.

Prepare yourself to hear rather of frailty and infirmity, of petty transgressions, of occasional
failings, of sudden surprisals, and of such other qualifying terms as may serve to keep out
of view the true source of the evil, and without shocking the understanding, may administer
consolation to the pride of human nature. The bulk of professed Christians are used to speak
of man as of a being, who, naturally pure, and inclined to all virtue, is sometimes, almost
involuntary, drawn out of the right course, or is overpowered by the violence of temptation.
Vice with them is rather an accidental and temporary, than a constitutional and habitual distemper;
a noxious plant, which, though found to live and even to thrive in the human mind, is not the
natural growth and production of the soil.

Far different is the humiliating language of Christianity. From it we learn that man is an
apostate creature, fallen from his high original, degraded in his nature, and depraved in his
faculties; indisposed to good, and disposed to evil; prone to vice, it is natural and easy
to him; disinclined to virtue, it is difficult and laborious; that he is tainted with sin,
not slightly and superficially, but radically and to the very core. These are truths which,
however mortifying to our pride, one would think (if this very corruption itself did not warp
the judgment) none would be hardy enough to attempt to controvert. I know not any thing which
brings them home so forcibly to my own feelings, as the consideration of what still remains
to us of our primitive dignity, when contrasted with our present state of moral degradation,

        "Into what depth thou seest,
    From what height fallen."

Examine first with attention the natural powers and faculties of man! invention, reason, judgment,
memory; a mind "of large discourse," "looking before and after," reviewing the past, and thence
determining for the present, and anticipating the future; discerning, collecting, combining,
comparing; capable not merely of apprehending but of admiring the beauty of moral excellence:
with fear and hope to warn and animate; with joy and sorrow to solace and soften; with love
to attach, with sympathy to harmonize, with courage to attempt, with patience to endure, and
with the power of conscience, that faithful monitor within the breast, to enforce the conclusions
of reason, and direct and regulate the passions of the soul. Truly we must pronounce him "majestic
though in ruin." "Happy, happy world," would be the exclamation of the inhabitant of some other
planet, on being told of a globe like ours, peopled with such creatures as these, and abounding
with situations and occasions to call forth the multiplied excellencies of their nature. "Happy,
happy world, with what delight must your great Creator and Governor witness your conduct, and
what large and merited rewards await you when your term of probation shall have expired.

    "I, bone, quo virtus tua te vocat, i pede fausto,
    Grandia laturus meritorum præmia."

But we have indulged too long in these delightful speculations; a sad reverse presents itself
on our survey of the actual state of man, when, from viewing his natural powers, we follow
him into practice, and see the uses to which he applies them. Take in the whole of the prospect,
view him in every age, and climate, and nation, in every condition and period of society. Where
now do you discover the characters of his exalted nature? "How is the gold become dim, and
the fine gold changed?" How is his reason clouded, his affections perverted; his conscience
stupified! How do anger, and envy, and hatred, and revenge, spring up in his wretched bosom!
How is he a slave to the meanest of his appetites! What fatal propensities does he discover
to evil! What inaptitude to good!

Dwell awhile on the state of the ancient world; not merely on that benighted part of it where
all lay buried in brutish ignorance and barbarism, but on the seats of civilized and polished
nations, on the empire of taste, and learning, and philosophy: yet in these chosen regions,
with whatever lustre the sun of science poured forth its rays, the moral darkness was so thick
"that it might be felt." Behold their sottish idolatries, their absurd superstitions, their
want of natural affection, their brutal excesses, their unfeeling oppression, their savage
cruelty! Look not to the illiterate and the vulgar, but to the learned and refined. Form not
your ideas from the conduct of the less restrained and more licentious; you will turn away
with disgust and shame from the allowed and familiar habits of the decent and the moral. St.
Paul best states the facts, and furnishes the explanation; "because they did not like to retain
God in their knowledge, he gave them over to a reprobate mind[2]."

Now direct your view to another quarter, to the inhabitants of a new hemisphere, where the
baneful practices and contagious example of the old world had never travelled. Surely, among
these children of nature we may expect to find those virtuous tendencies, for which we have
hitherto looked in vain. Alas! our search will still be fruitless! They are represented by
the historian of America, whose account is more favourable than those of some other great authorities,
as being a compound of pride, and indolence, and selfishness, and cunning, and cruelty[3];
full of a revenge which nothing could satiate, of a ferocity which nothing could soften; strangers
to the most amiable sensibilities of nature[4]. They appeared incapable of conjugal affection,
or parental fondness, or filial reverence, or social attachments; uniting too with their state
of barbarism, many of the vices and weaknesses of polished society. Their horrid treatment
of captives taken in war, on whose bodies they feasted, after putting them to death by the
most cruel tortures, is so well known, that we may spare the disgusting recital. No commendable
qualities relieve this gloomy picture, except fortitude, and perseverance, and zeal for the
welfare of their little community; if this last quality, exercised and directed as it was,
can be thought deserving of commendation.

But you give up the heathen nations as indefensible, and wish rather to form your estimate
of man from a view of countries which have been blessed with the light of revelation.--True
it is, and with joy let us record the concession, Christianity has set the general tone of
morals much higher than it was ever found in the Pagan world. She has every where improved
the character and multiplied the comforts of society, particularly to the poor and the weak,
whom from the beginning she professed to take under her special patronage. Like her divine
Author, "who sends his rain on the evil and on the good," she showers down unnumbered blessings
on thousands who profit from her bounty, while they forget or deny her power, and set at nought
her authority. Yet even in this more favoured situation we shall discover too many lamentable
proofs of the depravity of man. Nay, this depravity will now become even more apparent and
less deniable. For what bars does it not now overleap? Over what motives is it not now victorious?
Consider well the superior light and advantages which we enjoy, and then appreciate the superior
obligations which are imposed on us. Consider in how many cases our evil propensities are now
kept from breaking forth, by the superior restraints under which vice is laid among us by positive
laws, and by the amended standard of public opinion; and we may be assisted in conjecturing
what force is to be assigned to these motives, by the dreadful proofs which have been lately
exhibited in a neighbouring country, that when their influence is withdrawn, the most atrocious
crimes can be perpetrated shamelessly and in the face of day. Consider then the superior excellence
of our moral code, the new principles of obedience furnished by the gospel, and above all,
the awful sanction which the doctrines and precepts of Christianity derive from the clear discovery
of a future state of retribution, and from the annunciation of that tremendous day, "when we
shall stand before the judgment seat of Christ." Yet, in spite of all our knowledge thus enforced
and pressed home by this solemn notice, how little has been our progress in virtue? It has
been by no means such as to prevent the adoption, in our days, of various maxims of antiquity,
which, when well considered, too clearly establish the depravity of man. It may not be amiss
to adduce a few instances in proof of this assertion. It is now no less acknowledged than heretofore,
that prosperity hardens the heart: that unlimited power is ever abused, instead of being rendered
the instrument of diffusing happiness: that habits of vice grow up of themselves, whilst those
of virtue, if to be obtained at all, are of slow and difficult formation; that they who draw
the finest pictures of virtue, and seem most enamoured of her charms, are often the least under
her influence, and by the merest trifles are drawn aside from that line of conduct, which they
most strongly and seriously recommend to others, that all this takes place, though most of
the pleasures of vice are to be found with less alloy in the paths of virtue; whilst at the
same time, these paths afford superior and more exquisite delights, peculiar to themselves,
and are free from the diseases and bitter remorse, at the price of which vicious gratifications
are so often purchased.

It may suffice to touch very slightly on some other arguments, which it would hardly be right
to leave altogether unnoticed: one of these (the justice of which, however denied by superficial
moralists, parents of strict principles can abundantly testify) may be drawn from the perverse
and froward dispositions perceivable in children, which it is the business and sometimes the
ineffectual attempt of education to reform. Another may be drawn from the various deceits we
are apt to practice on ourselves, to which no one can be a stranger, who has ever contemplated
the operations of his own mind with serious attention. To the influence of this species of
corruption it has been in a great degree owing, that Christianity itself has been too often
disgraced. It has been turned into an engine of cruelty, and amidst the bitterness of persecution,
every trace has disappeared of the mild and beneficent spirit of the religion of Jesus. In
what degree must the taint have worked itself into the frame, and have corrupted the habit,
when the most wholesome nutriment can be thus converted into the deadliest poison! But surely
to any who call themselves Christians, it may be justly urged as an astonishing instance of
human depravity, that we ourselves, who enjoy the full light of revelation; to whom God has
vouchsafed such clear discoveries of what it concerns us to know of his being and attributes;
who profess to believe "that in him we live, and move, and have our being;" that to him we
owe all the comforts we here enjoy, and the offer of eternal Glory purchased for us by the
atoning blood of his own Son; ("thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift,") that we, thus
loaded with mercies, should every one of us be continually chargeable with forgetting his authority,
and being ungrateful for his benefits; with slighting his gracious proposals, or receiving
them at best but heartlessly and coldly.

But to put the question concerning the natural depravity of man to the severest test: take
the best of the human species, the watchful diligent self-denying Christian, and let him decide
the controversy; and that, not by inferences drawn from the practices of a thoughtless and
dissolute world, but by an appeal to his personal experience. Go with him into his closet,
ask him his opinion of the corruption of the heart, and he will tell you that he is deeply
sensible of its power, for that he has learned it from much self-observation and long acquaintance
with the workings of his own mind. He will tell you, that every day strengthens this conviction;
yea, that hourly he sees fresh reason to deplore his want of simplicity in intention, his infirmity
of purpose, his low views, his selfish unworthy desires, his backwardness to set about his
duty, his languor and coldness in performing it: that he finds himself obliged continually
to confess, that he feels within him two opposite principles, and that "he cannot do the things
that he would."

Such is the moral history, such the condition of man. The figures of the piece may vary, and
the colouring is sometimes of a darker, sometimes of a lighter hue; but the principles of the
composition, the grand outlines, are every where the same. Wherever we direct our view, we
discover the melancholy proofs of our depravity; whether we look to ancient or modern times,
to barbarous or civilized nations, to the conduct of the world around us, or to the monitor
within the breast; whether we read, or hear, or act, or think, or feel, the same humiliating
lesson is forced upon us,

    Juppiter est quodcunque vides, quocunque moveris.

Now when we look back to the picture which was formerly drawn of the natural powers of man,
and compare this his actual state with that for which, from a consideration of those powers,
he seems to have been originally calculated, how are we to account for the astonishing contrast!
will frailty or infirmity, or occasional lapses, or sudden surprisals, or any such qualifying
terms, convey an adequate idea of the nature, or point out the cause of the distemper? How,
on any principles of common reasoning, can we account for it, but by conceiving that man, since
he came out of the hands of his Creator, has contracted a taint, and that the venom of this
subtle poison has been communicated throughout the race of Adam, every where exhibiting incontestible
marks of its fatal malignity? Hence it has arisen, that the appetites deriving new strength,
and the powers of reason and conscience being weakened, the latter have feebly and impotently
pleaded against those forbidden indulgences which the former have solicited. Sensual gratifications
and illicit affections have debased our nobler powers, and indisposed our hearts to the discovery
of God, and to the consideration of his perfections; to a constant willing submission to his
authority, and obedience to his laws. By a repetition of vicious acts, evil habits have been
formed within us, and have rivetted the fetters of sin. Left to the consequences of our own
folly, the understanding has grown darker, and the heart more obdurate; reason has at length
altogether betrayed her trust, and even conscience herself has aided the delusion, till, instead
of deploring our miserable slavery, we have too often hugged, and even gloried in our chains.

Such is the general account of the progress of vice, where it is suffered to attain to its
full growth in the human heart. The circumstances of individuals will be found indeed to differ;
the servitude of some, if it may be allowed us to continue a figure so exactly descriptive
of the case, is more rigorous than that of others, their bonds more galling, their degradation
more complete. Some too (it will be remembered that we are speaking of the natural state of
man, without taking Christianity into question) have for a while appeared almost to have escaped
from their confinement; but none are altogether free; all without exception, in a greater or
less degree bear about them, more visible or more concealed, the ignominious marks of their
captivity.

Such on a full and fair investigation must be confessed to be the state of facts; and how can
this be accounted for on any other supposition, than that of some original taint, some radical
principle of corruption? All other solutions are unsatisfactory, whilst the potent cause which
has been assigned, does abundantly, and can alone sufficiently account for the effect. Thus
then it appears, that the corruption of human nature is proved by the same mode of reasoning,
as has been deemed conclusive in establishing the existence, and ascertaining the laws of the
principle of gravitation: that the doctrine rests on the same solid basis as the sublime philosophy
of Newton: that it is not a mere speculation, and therefore an uncertain though perhaps an
ingenious theory, but the sure result of large and actual experiment; deduced from incontestable
facts, and still more fully approving its truth by harmonizing with the several parts and accounting
for the various phænomena, jarring otherwise and inexplicable, of the great system of the universe.

Revelation, however, here comes in, and sustains the fallible conjectures of our unassisted
reason. The Holy Scriptures speak of us as fallen creatures: in almost every page we shall
find something that is calculated to abate the loftiness and silence the pretensions of man.
"The imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth." "What is man, that he should be clean?
and he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous[5]." "How much more abominable
and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water[6]?" They are all gone aside; they are
altogether become filthy: there is none that doeth good, no not one[7]." "Who can say, I have
made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin[8]?" "The heart is deceitful above all things, and
desperately wicked, who can know it." "Behold, I was shapen in wickedness, and in sin hath
my mother conceived me." "We were by nature the children of wrath, even as others, fulfilling
the desires of the flesh and of the mind." "O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me
from the body of this death!"--Passages might be multiplied upon passages, which speak the
same language, and these again might be illustrated and confirmed at large by various other
considerations, drawn from the same sacred source; such as those which represent a thorough
change, a renovation of our nature, as being necessary to our becoming true Christians; or
as those also which are suggested by observing that holy men refer their good dispositions
and affections to the immediate agency of the Supreme Being.

SECTION II.

Evil Spirit.--Natural State of Man.

But in addition to all which has been yet stated, the word of God instructs us that we have
to contend not only with our own natural depravity, but with the power of darkness, the Evil
Spirit, who rules in the hearts of the wicked, and whose dominion we learn from Scripture to
be so general, as to entitle him to the denomination of "the Prince of this world." There cannot
be a stronger proof of the difference which exists between the religious system of the Scriptures,
and that of the bulk of nominal Christians, than the proof which is afforded by the subject
now in question. The existence and agency of the Evil Spirit, though so distinctly and repeatedly
affirmed in Scripture, are almost universally exploded in a country which professes to admit
the authority of the sacred volume. Some other Doctrines of Revelation, the force and real
meaning of which are commonly in a great degree explained away, are yet conceded in general
terms. But this seems almost by universal consent to have been abandoned, as a post no longer
tenable. It is regarded as an evanescent prejudice, which it would now be a discredit to any
man of understanding to believe. Like ghosts and witches and other phantoms, which haunted
the night of superstition, it cannot in these more enlightened times stand the test of our
severer scrutiny. To be suffered to pass away quietly, is as much as it can hope for; and it
might rather expect to be laughed off the stage as a just object of contempt and derision.

But although the Scripture doctrine concerning the Evil Spirit is thus generally exploded,
yet were we to consider the matter seriously and fairly, we should probably find ground for
believing that there is no better reason for its being abandoned, than that many absurd stories,
concerning spirits and apparitions, have been used to be believed and propagated amongst weak
and credulous people; and that the Evil Spirit not being the object of our bodily eyes, it
would be an instance of the same weakness to give credit to the doctrine of its existence and
agency. But to be consistent with ourselves, we might almost as well, on the same principle,
deny the reality of all other incorporeal beings. What is there, in truth, in the doctrine,
which is in itself improbable, or which is not confirmed by analogy? We see, in fact, that
there are wicked men, enemies to God, and malignant towards their fellow creatures, who take
pleasure, and often succeed, in drawing in others to the commission of evil. Why then should
it be deemed incredible, that there may be one or more spiritual intelligences of similar natures
and propensities, who may in like manner be permitted to tempt men to the practice of sin?
Surely we may retort upon our opponents the charge of absurdity, and justly accuse them of
gross inconsistency, in admitting, without difficulty, the existence and operation of these
qualities in a material being, and yet denying them in an immaterial one (in direct contradiction
to the authority of Scripture, which they allow to be conclusive) when they cannot, and will
not pretend for a moment, that there is any thing belonging to the nature of matter, to which
these qualities naturally adhere.

But to dilate no farther on a topic which, however it may excite the ridicule of the inconsiderate,
will suggest matter of furious apprehension to all who form their opinions on the authority
of the word of God: thus brought as we are into captivity, and exposed to danger; depraved
and weakened within, and tempted from without, it might well fill our hearts with anxiety to
reflect, "that the day will come," when "the Heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and
the elements shall melt with fervent heat;" "when the dead, small and great, shall stand before
the tribunal of God;" and we shall have to give account of all things done in the body. We
are naturally prompted to turn over the page of revelation with solicitude, in order to discover
the qualities and character of our Judge, and the probable principles of his determination;
but this only serves to turn painful apprehension into fixed and certain terror.--First of
the qualities of our Judge. As all nature bears witness to his irresistible power, so we read
in Scripture that nothing can escape his observation, or elude his discovery; not our actions
only, but our most secret cogitations are open to his view. "He is about our path and about
our bed, and spieth out all our ways[9]."

Now, hear his description and character and the rule of his award: "The Lord our God is a consuming
fire, even a jealous God."--"He is of purer eyes than to behold iniquity."--"The soul that
sinneth, it shall die."--"The wages of sin is death." These are indeed matter of awful perusal,
sufficient surely to confound the fallacious confidence of any who, on the ground that our
Creator must be aware of our natural weakness, and must be of course disposed to allow for
it, should alledge that, though unable indeed to justify ourselves in the sight of God, we
need not give way to such gloomy apprehensions, but might throw ourselves, with assured hope,
on the infinite benevolence of the Supreme Being. It is indeed true, that with the threatenings
of the word of God, there are mixed many gracious declarations of pardon, on repentance, and
thorough amendment. But, alas! which of us is there, whose conscience must not reproach him
with having trifled with the long-suffering of God, and with having but ill kept the resolutions
of amendment, which he had some time or other formed in the seasons of recollection and remorse?--And
how is the disquietude naturally excited by such a retrospect, confirmed and heightened by
passages like these? The apprehensions, which must be excited by thus reading the recorded
judgments and awful language of Scripture, are confirmed to the inquisitive and attentive mind,
by a close observation of the moral constitution of the world. Such a one will find occasion
to remark, that all, which has been suggested of the final consequences of vice, is in strict
analogy to what we may observe in the ordinary course of human affairs, wherein it will appear,
on a careful survey, that God has so assigned to things their general tendencies, and established
such an order of causes and effects, as (however interrupted here below by hindrances and obstructions
apparently of a temporary nature) loudly proclaim the principles of his moral government, and
strongly suggest, that vice and imprudence will finally terminate in misery[12]. Not that this
species of proof was wanted; for that which we must acknowledge, on weighing the evidence,
to be a revelation from God, requires not the aid of such a confirmation: but yet, as this
accordance might be expected between the words and the works, the past and the future ordinations
of the same Almighty Being, it is no idle speculation to remark, that the visible constitution
of things in the world around us, falls in with the representations here given from Scripture
of the dreadful consequences of vice, nay even of what is commonly termed inconsiderateness
and imprudence.

If such then be indeed our sad condition, what is to be done? Is there no hope? Nothing left
for us, "but a fearful looking for of judgment, and fiery indignation, which shall devour the
adversaries[13]?" Blessed be God! we are not shut up irrecoverably in this sad condition: "Turn
you to the strong hold, ye prisoners of hope;" hear one who proclaims his designation, "to
heal the broken-hearted, to preach liberty to the captives, and recovering of sight to the
blind." They who have formed a true notion of their lost and helpless state, will most gladly
listen to the sound, and most justly estimate the value of such a deliverance. And this is
the cause, which renders it of such pressing moment not to pass cursorily over those important
topics of the original and superinduced corruption, and weakness of man; a discussion painful
and humiliating to the pride of human nature, to which the mind lends itself with difficulty,
and hearkens with a mixture of anger and disgust; but well suited to our case, and like the
distasteful lessons of adversity, permanently useful in its consequences. It is here, never
let it be forgotten, that our foundation must be laid; otherwise our superstructure, whatever
we may think of it, will one day or other prove tottering and insecure. This is therefore no
metaphysical speculation, but a practical matter: Slight and superficial conceptions of our
state of natural degradation, and of our insufficiency to recover from it of ourselves, fall
in too well with our natural inconsiderateness, and produce that fatal insensibility to the
divine warning to "flee from the wrath to come," which we cannot but observe to prevail so
generally. Having no due sense of the malignity of our disease, and of its dreadful issue,
we do not set ourselves to work in earnest to obtain the remedy, as to a business arduous indeed,
but indispensable: for it must ever be carefully remembered, that this deliverance is not forced
on us, but offered to us; we are furnished indeed with every help, and are always to bear in
mind, that we are unable of ourselves to will or to do rightly; but we are plainly admonished
to "work out our own salvation with fear and trembling[14]."--Watchful, for we are encompassed
with dangers; "putting on the whole armour of God," for "we are beset with enemies."

May we be enabled to shake off that lethargy which is so apt to creep upon us! For this end,
a deep practical conviction of our natural depravity and weakness will be found of eminent
advantage. As it is by this we must at first be rouzed from our fallacious security, so by
this we must be kept wakeful and active unto the end. Let us therefore make it our business
to have this doctrine firmly seated in our understandings, and radically worked into our hearts.
With a view to the former of these objects, we should often seriously and attentively consider
the firm grounds on which it rests. It is plainly made known to us by the light of nature,
and irresistibly enforced on us by the dictates of our unassisted understandings. But lest
there should be any so obstinately dull, as not to discern the force of the evidence suggested
to our reason, and confirmed by all experience, or rather so heedless as not to notice it,
the authoritative stamp of Revelation is superadded, as we have seen, to complete the proof;
and we must therefore be altogether inexcusable, if we still remain unconvinced by such accumulated
mass of argument.

But we must not only assent to the doctrine clearly, but feel it strongly. To this end, let
the power of habit be called in to our aid. Let us accustom ourselves to refer to our natural
depravity, as to their primary cause, the sad instances of vice and folly of which we read,
or which we see around us, or to which we feel the propensities in our own bosoms; ever vigilant
and distrustful of ourselves, and looking with an eye of kindness and pity on the faults and
infirmities of others, whom we should learn to regard with the same tender concern as that
with which the sick are used to sympathize with those who are suffering under the same distemper
as themselves. This lesson once well acquired, we shall feel the benefit of it in all our future
progress; and though it be a lesson which we are slow to learn, it is one in which study and
experience, the incidents of every day, and every fresh observation of the workings of our
own hearts, will gradually concur to perfect us. Let it not, after all then, be our reproach,
and at length our ruin, that these abundant means of instruction are possessed in vain.

SECTION III.

Corruption of Human Nature.--Objection.

But there is one difficulty still behind, more formidable than all the rest. The pride of man
is loth to be humbled. Forced to abandon the plea of innocence, and pressed so closely that
he can no longer escape from the conclusion to which we would drive him, some more bold objector
faces about and stands at bay, endeavouring to justify what he cannot deny, "Whatever I am,"
he contends, "I am what my Creator made me. I inherited a nature, you yourself confess, depraved,
and prone to evil: how then can I withstand the temptations to sin by which I am environed?
If this plea cannot establish my innocence, it must excuse or at least extenuate my guilt.
Frail and weak as I am, a Being of infinite justice and goodness will never try me by a rule,
which however equitable in the case of creatures of a higher nature, is altogether disproportionate
to mine."

Let not my readers be alarmed! The writer is not going to enter into the discussion of the
grand question concerning the origin of moral evil, or to attempt at large to reconcile its
existence and consequent punishment with the acknowledged attributes and perfections of God.
These are questions, of which, if one may judge from the little success with which the acutest
and profoundest reasoners have been ever labouring to solve the difficulties they contain,
the full and clear comprehension is above the intellect of man. Yet, as such an objection as
that which has been stated is sometimes heard from the mouths of professed Christians, it must
not be passed by without a few short observations.

Were the language in question to be addressed to us by an avowed sceptic, though it might not
be very difficult to expose to him the futility of his reasonings, we should almost despair
of satisfying him of the soundness of our own. We should perhaps suggest impossibilities, which
might stand in the way of such a system as he would establish: we might indeed point out wherein
(arguing from concessions which he would freely make) his pre-conceptions concerning the conduct
of the Supreme Being, had been in fact already contradicted, particularly by the existence
at all of natural or moral evil: and if thus proved erroneous in one instance, why might they
not be so likewise in another? But though by these and similar arguments we might at length
silence our objector, we could not much expect to bring him over to our opinions. We should
probably do better, if we were to endeavour rather to draw him off from these dark and slippery
regions, (slippery in truth they are to every human foot) and to contend with him, where we
might tread with firmness and freedom, on sure ground, and in the light of day. Then we might
fairly lay before him all the various arguments for the truth of our holy religion; arguments
which have been sufficient to satisfy the wisest, and the best, and the ablest of men. We should
afterwards perhaps insist on the abundant confirmation Christianity receives from its being
exactly suited to the nature and wants of man; and we might conclude, with fairly putting it
to him, whether all this weight of evidence were to be overbalanced by this one difficulty,
on a subject so confessedly high and mysterious, considering too that he must allow, we see
but a part (O how small a part!) of the universal creation of God, and that our faculties are
wholly incompetent to judge of the schemes of his infinite wisdom. This, if the writer may
be permitted to offer his own judgment, is (at least in general) the best mode, in the case
of the objection now in question, of dealing with unbelievers; and to adopt the contrary plan,
seems somewhat like that of any one, who having to convince some untutored Indian of the truth
of the Copernican system, instead of beginning with plain and simple propositions, and leading
him on to what is more abstruse and remote, should state to him at the outset some astonishing
problems, to which the understanding can only yield its slow assent, when constrained by the
decisive force of demonstration. The novice, instead of lending himself to such a mistaken
method of instruction, would turn away in disgust, and be only hardened against his preceptor.
But it must be remembered, that the present work is addressed to those who acknowledge the
authority of the holy Scriptures. And in order to convince all such that there is somewhere
or other, a fallacy in our objector's reasoning, it will be sufficient to establish that though
the word of God clearly asserts the justice and goodness of the Supreme Being, and also the
natural depravity of man, yet it no less clearly lays down that this natural depravity shall
never be admitted as an excuse for sin, but that "they which have done evil, shall rise to
the resurrection of damnation[15]."--"That the wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the
people that forget God." And it is worthy of remark, that, as if for the very purpose of more
effectually silencing those unbelieving doubts which are ever springing up in the human heart,
our blessed Saviour, though the messenger of peace and good will to man, has again and again
repeated these awful denunciations. "For I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth,
saith the Lord God[19]." Indeed almost every page of the word of God contains some warning
or invitation to sinners; and all these, to a considerate mind, must unquestionably be proofs
of our present position.

It has been the more necessary not to leave unnoticed the objection which we have been now
refuting, because, where not admitted to such an unqualified extent as altogether to take away
the moral responsibility of man, and when not avowed in the daring language in which it has
been above stated; if may frequently be observed to exist in an inferior degree: and often,
when not distinctly formed into shape, it lurks in secret, diffusing a general cloud of doubt
or unbelief, or lowering our standard of right, or whispering fallacious comfort, and producing
a ruinous tranquillity. Not to anticipate what will more properly come under discussion, when
we consider the nature and strictness of practical Christianity; let us here, however, remark,
that though the holy Scriptures so clearly state the natural corruption and weakness of man,
yet they never, in the most minute degree, countenance, but throughout directly oppose, the
supposition to which we are often too forward to listen, that this corruption and weakness
will be admitted as lowering the demands of divine justice, and in some sort palliating our
transgressions of the laws of God. It would not be difficult to shew that such a notion is
at war with the whole scheme of redemption by the atonement of Christ. But perhaps it may be
enough when any such suggestions as those which we are condemning force themselves into the
imagination of a Christian, to recommend it to him to silence them by what is their best practical
answer: that if our natural condition be depraved and weak, our temptations numerous, and our
Almighty Judge infinitely holy; yet that the offers to penitent sinners of pardon and grace,
and strength, are universal and unlimited. Let it not however surprise us, if in all this there
seem to be involved difficulties which we cannot fully comprehend. How many such every where
present themselves! Scarcely is there an object around us, that does not afford endless matter
of doubt and argument. The meanest reptile which crawls on the earth, nay, every herb and flower
which we behold, baffles the imbecility of our limited inquiries. All nature calls upon us
to be humble. Can it then be surprising if we are at a loss on this question, which respects,
not the properties of matter, or of numbers, but the counsels and ways of him whose "Understanding
is infinite[20]," "whose judgments are declared to be unsearchable, and his ways past finding
out[21]?" In this our ignorance however, we may calmly repose ourselves on his own declaration,
"That though clouds and darkness are round about him, yet righteousness and judgment are the
habitation of his throne[22]." Let it also be remembered, that if in Christianity some things
are difficult, that which it most concerns us to know, is plain and obvious. To this it is
true wisdom to attach ourselves, assenting to what is revealed where above our faculties, we
do not say contradictory to them, on the credit of what is clearly discerned, and satisfactorily
established. In truth, we are all perhaps too apt to plunge into depths, which it is beyond
our power to fathom; and it was to warn us against this very error, that the inspired writer,
when he has been threatening the people, whom God had selected as the objects of his special
favour, with the most dreadful punishments, if they should forsake the law of the Lord, and
has introduced surrounding nations as asking the meaning of the severe infliction, winds up
the whole with this instructive admonition; "Secret things belong unto the Lord our God: but
those which are revealed belong unto us, and to our children for ever, that we may do all the
words of this law[23]."

To any one who is seriously impressed with a sense of the critical state in which we are here
placed, a short and uncertain space in which to make our peace with God, and then the last
judgment, and an eternity of unspeakable happiness or misery, it is indeed an awful and an
affecting spectacle, to see men thus busying themselves in these vain speculations of an arrogant
curiosity, and trifling with their dearest, their everlasting interests. It is but a feeble
illustration of this exquisite folly, to compare it to the conduct of some convicted rebel,
who, when brought into the presence of his Sovereign, instead of seizing the occasion to sue
for mercy, should even neglect and trifle with the pardon which should be offered to him, and
insolently employ himself in prying into his Sovereign's designs, and criticising his counsels.
Our case indeed is, in another point of comparison, but too much like that of the convicted
rebel. But there is this grand difference--that at the best, his success must be uncertain,
ours, if it be not our own fault, is sure; and while, on the one hand, our guilt is unspeakably
greater than that of any rebel against an earthly monarch; so, on the other, we know that our
Sovereign is "Long-suffering, and easy to be intreated;" more ready to grant, than we to ask,
forgiveness.

SECT. I

SCRIPTURE DOCTRINES.

These are the leading Doctrines concerning our Saviour, and the Holy Spirit, which are taught
in the Holy Scriptures, and held by the Church of England. The truth of them, agreeably to
our general plan, will be taken for granted. Few of those, who have been used to join in the
established form of worship, can have been, it is hoped, so inattentive, as to be ignorant
of these grand truths, which are to be found every where dispersed throughout our excellent
Liturgy. Would to God it could be presumed, with equal confidence, that all who assent to them
in terms, discern their force and excellency in the understanding, and feel their power in
the affections, and their transforming influence in the heart. What lively emotions are they
calculated to excite in us of deep self-abasement, and abhorrence of our sins; and of humble
hope, and firm faith, and heavenly joy, and ardent love, and active unceasing gratitude!

But here, it is to be feared, will be found the grand defect of the religion of the bulk of
professed Christians; a defect, like the palsy at the heart, which, while in its first attack,
it changes but little the exterior appearance of the body, extinguishes the internal principle
of heat and motion, and soon extends its benumbing influence to the remotest fibres of the
frame. This defect is closely connected with that which was the chief subject of the last chapter:
"they that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick." Had we duly felt the burthen
of our sins, that they are a load which our own strength is wholly unable to support, and that
the weight of them must finally sink us into perdition, our hearts would have danced at the
sound of the gracious invitation, "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and
I will give you rest[24]." But in those who have scarcely felt their sins as any incumbrance,
it would be mere affectation to pretend to very exalted conceptions of the value and acceptableness
of the proffered deliverance. This pretence accordingly, is seldom now kept up; and the most
superficial observer, comparing the sentiments and views of the bulk of the Christian world,
with the articles still retained in their creed, and with the strong language of Scripture,
must be struck with the amazing disproportion.

To pass over the throng from whose minds Religion is altogether excluded by the business or
the vanities of life, how is it with the more decent and moral? To what criterion shall we
appeal? Are their hearts really filled with these things, and warmed by the love which they
are adapted to inspire? Then surely their minds are apt to stray to them almost unseasonably;
or at least to hasten back to them with eagerness, when escaped from the estrangment imposed
by the necessary cares and business of life. He was a masterly describer of human nature, who
thus pourtrayed the characters of an undissembled affection;

    "Unstaid and fickle in all other things,
    Save in the constant image of the object,
    That is beloved."

"And how," it may be perhaps replied, "do you know, but that the minds of these people are
thus occupied? Can you look into the bosoms of men?" Let us appeal to a test to which we resorted
in a former instance. "Out of the abundance of the heart," it has been pronounced, "the mouth
speaketh."--Take these persons then in some well selected hour, and lead the conversation to
the subject of Religion. The utmost which can be effected is, to bring them to talk of things
in the gross. They appear lost in generalities; there is nothing precise and determinate, nothing
which implies a mind used to the contemplation of its object. In vain you strive to bring them
to speak on that topic, which one might expect to be ever uppermost in the hearts of redeemed
sinners. They elude all your endeavours; and if you make mention of it yourself, it is received
with no very cordial welcome at least, if not with unequivocal disgust; it is at the best a
forced and formal discussion. The excellence of our Saviour's moral precepts, the kindness
and simplicity, and self-denial and unblemished purity of his life, his patience and meekness
in the hour of death, cannot indeed be spoken of but with admiration, when spoken of at all,
as they have often extorted unwilling praise from the most daring and malignant infidels. But
are not these mentioned as qualities in the abstract, rather than as the perfections and lineaments
of our patron and benefactor and friend, "who loved us, and gave himself for us;" of him "who
died for our offences, and rose again for our justification;" who is even now at the "right
hand of God, making intercession for us?" Who would think that the kindness and humanity, and
self-denial, and patience in suffering, which we so drily commend, had been exerted towards
ourselves, in acts of more than finite benevolence of which we were to derive the benefit,
in condescensions and labours submitted to for our sakes, in pain and ignominy, endured for
our deliverance?

But these grand truths are not suffered to vanish altogether from our remembrance. Thanks to
the compilers of our Liturgy, more than to too many of the occupiers of our pulpits, they are
forced upon our notice in their just bearings and connections, as often as we attend the service
of the church. Yet is it too much to affirm, that though there entertained with decorum, as
what belong to the day and place, and occupation, they are yet too generally heard of with
little interest; like the legendary tales of some venerable historian, or other transactions
of great antiquity, if not of doubtful credit, which, though important to our ancestors, relate
to times and circumstances so different from our own, that we cannot be expected to take any
great concern in them? We hear of them therefore with apparent indifference; we repeat them
almost as it were by rote, assuming by turns the language of the deepest humiliation and of
the warmest thankfulness, with a calm unaltered composure; and when the service of the day
is ended, they are dismissed altogether from our thoughts, till on the return of another Sunday,
a fresh attendance on public worship gives occasion for the renewed expressions of our periodical
gratitude. In noticing such lukewarmness as this, surely the writer were to be pardoned, if
he were to be betrayed into some warmth of condemnation. The Unitarian and Socinian indeed,
who deny, or explain away the peculiar doctrines of the Gospel, may be allowed to feel, and
talk of these grand truths with little emotion. But in those who profess a sincere belief in
them, this coldness is insupportable. The greatest possible services of man to man must appear
contemptible, when compared with "the unspeakable mercies of Christ:" mercies so dearly bought,
so freely bestowed--A deliverance from eternal misery--The gift of "a crown of glory, that
fadeth not away." Yet, what judgment should we form of such conduct, as is here censured, in
the case of any one who had received some signal services from a fellow creature? True love
is an ardent, and an active principle--a cold, a dormant, a phlegmatic gratitude, are contractions
in terms. When these generous affections really exist in vigour, are we not ever fond of dwelling
on the value, and enumerating the merits of our benefactor? How are we moved when any thing
is asserted to his disparagement! How do we delight to tell of his kindness! With what pious
care do we preserve any memorial of him, which we may happen to possess? How gladly do we seize
any opportunity of rendering to him, or to those who are dear to him, any little good offices,
which, though in themselves of small intrinsic worth, may testify the sincerity of our thankfulness!
The very mention of his name will cheer the heart, and light up the countenance! And if he
be now no more, and if he had made it his dying request that, in a way of his own appointment,
we would occasionally meet to keep the memory of his person, and of his services in lively
exercise; how should we resent the idea of failing in the performance of so sacred an obligation!

Such are the genuine characters, such the natural workings of a lively gratitude. And we believe,
without doing violence to the most established principles of human nature, that where the effects
are so different, the internal principle is in truth the same?

If the love of Christ be thus languid in the bulk of nominal Christians, their joy and trust
in him cannot be expected to be very vigorous. Here again we find reason to remark, that there
is nothing distinct, nothing specific, nothing which implies a mind acquainted with the nature,
and familiarized with the use of the Christian's privileges, habitually solacing itself with
the hopes held out by the Gospel, and animated by the sense of its high relations, and its
glorious reversion.

The doctrine of the sanctifying operations of the Holy Spirit, appears to have met with still
worse treatment. It would be to convey a very inadequate idea of the scantiness of the conceptions
on this head, of the bulk of the Christian world, to affirm merely, that they are too little
conscious of the inefficacy of their own unassisted endeavours after holiness of heart and
life, and that they are not daily employed in humbly and diligently using the appointed means
for the reception and cultivation of the divine assistance. It would hardly be to go beyond
the truth to assert, that for the most part their notions on this subject are so confused and
faint, that they can scarcely be said in any fair sense to believe the doctrine at all.

The writer of these sheets is by no means unapprized of the objections which he may expect
from those, whose opinions he has been so freely condemning. He is prepared to hear it urged,
that often where there have been the strongest pretences to the religious affections, of which
the want has now been censured, there has been little or nothing of the reality of them; and
that even omitting the instances (which however have been but too frequent) of studied hypocrisy,
what have assumed to themselves the name of religious affections, have been merely the flights
of a lively imagination, or the working of a heated brain; in particular, that this love of
our Saviour, which has been so warmly recommended, is no better than a vain fervor, which dwells
only in the disordered mind of the enthusiast. That Religion is of a more steady nature; of
a more sober and manly quality; and that she rejects with scorn, the support of a mere feeling,
so volatile and indeterminate, so trivial and useless, as that with which we would associate
her; a feeling varying in different men, and even in the same man at different times, according
to the accidental flow of the animal spirits; a feeling, lastly, of which it may perhaps be
said, we are from our very nature, hardly susceptible towards an invisible Being.

"As to the operations of the Holy Spirit," it may probably be further urged, that "it is perhaps
scarcely worth while to spend much time in inquiring into the theory, when, in practice at
least, it is manifest, that there is no sure criterion whereby any one can ascertain the reality
of them, even in his own case, much less in that of another. All we know is, that pretenders
to these extraordinary assistances, have never been wanting to abuse the credulity of the vulgar,
and to try the patience of the wise. From the canting hypocrites and wild fanatics of the last
century, to their less dangerous, chiefly because less successful, descendants of the present
day, we hear the same unwarranted claims, the same idle tales, the same low cant; and we may
discern not seldom the same mean artifices and mercenary ends. The doctrine, to say the best
of it, can only serve to favour the indolence of man, while professing to furnish him with
a compendious method of becoming wise and good, it supersedes the necessity of his own personal
labours. Quitting therefore all these slothful and chimerical speculations, it is true wisdom
to attach ourselves to what is more solid and practical; to the work which you will not yourself
deny to be sufficiently difficult to find us of itself full employment: the work of rectifying
the disorders of the passions, and of implanting and cultivating the virtues of the moral character."--"It
is the service of the understanding which God requires of us, which you would degrade into
a mere matter of bodily temperament, and imaginary impulses. You are contending for that which
not only is altogether unworthy of our Divine Master, but which, with considerate men, has
ever brought his religion into suspicion and disrepute, and under a shew of honouring him,
serves only to injure and discredit his cause." Our Objector, warming as he proceeds, will
perhaps assume a more impatient tone. "Have not these doctrines," he may exclaim, "been ever
perverted to purposes the most disgraceful to the Religion of Jesus? If you want an instance,
look to the standard of the inquisition, and behold the pious Dominicans torturing their miserable
victims for the Love of Christ[25]. Or would you rather see the effects of your principles
on a larger scale, and by wholesale (if the phrase may be pardoned;) cast your eyes across
the Atlantic, and let your zeal be edified by the holy activity of Cortez and Pizarro, and
their apostles of the western hemisphere. To what else have been owing the extensive ravages
of national persecutions, and religious wars and crusades; whereby rapacity, and pride, and
cruelty, sheltering themselves (sometimes even from the furious bigots themselves) under the
mask of this specious principle, have so often afflicted the world? The Prince of Peace has
been made to assume the port of a ferocious conqueror, and forgetting the message of good will
to men, has issued forth like a second Scourge of the Earth[26], to plague and desolate the
human species."

Objection discussed.

That the sacred name of Religion has been too often prostituted to the most detestable purposes;
that furious bigots and bloody persecutors, and self-interested hypocrites of all qualities
and dimensions, from the rapacious leader of an army, to the canting oracle of a congregation,
have falsely called themselves Christians, are melancholy and humiliating truths, which (as
none so deeply lament them) none will more readily admit, than they who best understand the
nature, and are most concerned for the honour of Christianity. We are ready to acknowledge
also without dispute, that the religious affections, and the doctrine of divine assistances,
have almost at all times been more or less disgraced by the false pretences and extravagant
conduct of wild fanatics and brain-sick enthusiasts. All this, however, is only as it happens
in other instances, wherein the depravity of man perverts the bounty of God. Why is it here
only to be made an argument, that there is danger of abuse? So is there also in the case of
all the potent and operative principles, whether in the natural or moral world. Take for an
instance the powers and properties of matter. These were doubtless designed by Providence for
our comfort and well-being; yet they are often misapplied to trifling purposes, and still more
frequently turned into so many agents of misery and death. On this fact indeed is founded the
well-known maxim, not more trite than just, that "the best things when corrupted become the
worst;" a maxim which is especially just in the instance of Religion. For in this case it is
not merely, as in some others, that a great power, when mischievously applied, must be hurtful
in proportion to its strength; but that the very principle on which in general we depend for
restraining and retarding the progress of evil, not only ceases to interpose any kindly check,
but is actively operative in the opposite direction. But will you therefore discard Religion
altogether? The experiment was lately tried in a neighbouring country, and professedly on this
very ground. The effects however with which it was attended, do not much encourage its repetition.
But suppose Religion were discarded, then Liberty remains to plague the world; a power which
though when well employed, the dispenser of light and happiness, has been often proved, and
eminently in this very instance, to be capable when abused, of becoming infinitely mischievous.
Well then, extinguish Liberty. Then what more abused by false pretenders, than Patriotism?
Well, extinguish Patriotism. But then the wicked career to which we have adverted, must have
been checked but for Courage. Blot out Courage--and so might you proceed to extinguish one
by one, Reason, and Speech, and Memory, and all the discriminating prerogatives of man. But
perhaps more than enough has been already urged in reply to an objection, which bottoms on
ground so indefensible, as that which would equally warrant our condemning any physical or
moral faculty altogether, on account of its being occasionally abused.

As to the position of our Opponent, that there is no way whereby the validity of any pretensions
to the religious affections may be ascertained; it must partly be admitted. Doubtless we are
not able always to read the hearts of men, and to discover their real characters; and hence
it is, that we in some measure lie open to the false and hypocritical pretences which are brought
forward against us so triumphantly. But then these pretences no more prove all similar claims
to be founded in falsehood and hypocrisy, than there having been many false and interested
pretenders to wisdom and honesty, would prove that there can be no such thing as a wise or
an honest man. We do not argue thus but where our reason is under a corrupt bias. Why should
we be so much surprised and scandalized, when these importers are detected in the church of
Christ? Yet it may not be improper to take this occasion for observing, that we are now and
then apt to draw too unfavourable conclusions from unpleasant appearances, which may perhaps
be chiefly or altogether owing to gross or confused conceptions, or to a disgusting formality
of demeanor, or to indeterminate, low, or improperly familiar expressions. The mode and language,
in which a vulgar man will express himself on the subject of Religion, will probably be vulgar,
and it is difficult for people of literature and refinement not to be unreasonably shocked
by such vulgarities. But we should at least endeavour to correct the rash judgments which we
may be disposed to form on these occasions, and should learn to recognize and to prize a sound
texture and just configuration, though disguised beneath a homely or uncouth drapery. It was
an Apostle who declared that he had come (to the learned and accomplished Grecians too) "not
with excellency of speech, or the wisdom of words." From these he had studiously abstained,
lest he should have seemed to owe his success rather to the graces of oratory, than to the
efficacy of his doctrines, and to the divine power with which they were accompanied. Even in
our own times, when, the extraordinary operations and miraculous gifts of the Holy Spirit having
ceased, the necessity of study and preparation, and of attention to manner as well as matter,
in order to qualify men to become teachers of religion, are no longer superseded, yet it is
no more than an act of justice explicitly to remark, that a body of Christians, which from
the peculiarly offensive grossnesses of language in use among them, had, not without reason,
excited suspicions of the very worst nature, have since reclaimed their character[27], and
have perhaps excelled all mankind in solid and unequivocal proofs of the love of Christ, and
of the most ardent, and active, and patient zeal in his service. It is a zeal tempered with
prudence, softened with meekness, soberly aiming at great ends by the gradual operation of
well adapted means, supported by a courage which no danger can intimidate, and a quiet constancy
which no hardships can exhaust.

SECT. II.

On the Admission of the Passions into Religion.

The objection of our Opponent, that by insisting on the obligation of making our blessed Saviour
the object of our religious affections, we are degrading the worship of the understanding,
and are substituting and raising up a set of mere feelings in its stead, is one which deserves
our most serious consideration. If it be just, it is decisive; for ours must be unquestionably
"a reasonable service[28]." The Objector must mean, either, that these affections are unreasonable
in themselves, or that they are misplaced in religion. He can scarcely however intend that
the affections are in their own nature unreasonable. To suppose him to maintain this position,
were to suppose him ignorant of what every schoolboy knows of the mechanism of the human mind.
We shall therefore take it for granted, that this cannot be his meaning, and proceed to examine
the latter part of the alternative. Here also it may either be intended, that the affections
are misplaced in Religion, generally, or that our blessed Saviour is not the proper object
of them. The strain of our Objector's language, no less than the objections themselves which
he has urged, render it evident that (perhaps without excluding the latter position) the former
is in full possession of his mind.

This notion of the affections being out of place in Religion, is indeed an opinion which appears
to be generally prevalent. The affections are regarded as the strong-holds of enthusiasm. It
is therefore judged most expedient to act, as prudent generals are used to do, when they raze
the fortress, or spike up the cannon, which are likely to fall into the hands of an enemy.
Mankind are apt to be the dupes of misapplied terms; and the progress of the persuasion now
in question, has been considerably aided by an abuse of language, not sufficiently checked
in its first advances, whereby that species of Religion which is opposite to the warm and affectionate
kind, has been suffered almost without disturbance, to usurp to itself the epithet of rational.
But let not this claim be too hastily admitted. Let the position in question be thoroughly
and impartially discussed, and it will appear, if I mistake not, to be a gross and pernicious
error. If amputation be indeed indispensable, we must submit to it; but we may surely expect
to be heard with patience, or rather with favour and indulgence, while we proceed to shew that
there is no need to have recourse to so desperate an enemy. The discussion will necessarily
draw us into length. But our prolixity will not be greater than may well be claimed by the
importance of the subject, especially as it scarcely seems to have hitherto sufficiently engaged
the attention of writers on the subject of Religion.

It cannot methinks but afford a considerable presumption against the doctrine which we are
about to combat, that it proposes to exclude at once from the service of Religion so grand
a part of the composition of man; that in this our noblest employment it condemns as worse
than useless, all the most active and operative principles of our nature. One cannot but suppose
that like the organs of the body, so the elementary qualities and original passions of the
mind were all given us for valuable purposes by our all-wise Creator. It is indeed one of the
sad evidences of our fallen condition, that they are now perpetually tumultuating and rebelling
against the powers of reason and conscience, to which they should be subject. But even if Revelation
had been silent, natural reason might have in some degree presumed, that it would be the effect
of a Religion which should come from God, completely to repair the consequences of our superinduced
depravity. The schemes of mere human wisdom had indeed tacitly confessed, that this was a task
beyond their strength. Of the two most celebrated systems of philosophy, the one expressly
confirmed the usurpation of the passions, while the other, despairing of being able to regulate,
saw nothing left but to extinguish them. The former acted like a weak government, which gives
independence to a rebellious province, which it cannot reduce. The latter formed its boasted
scheme merely upon the plan of that barbarous policy, which composes the troubles of a turbulent
land by the extermination of its inhabitants. This is the calm, not of order, but of inaction;
it is not tranquillity, but the stillness of death;

    Trucidare falso nomine imperium, & ubi solitudinem faciunt,
    pacem appellant--

Christianity, we might hope, would not be driven to any such wretched expedients; nor in fact
does she condescend to them. They only thus undervalue her strength, who mistake her character,
and are ignorant of her powers. It is her peculiar glory, and her main office, to bring all
the faculties of our nature into their just subordination and dependence; that so the whole
man, complete in all his functions, may be restored to the true ends of his being, and be devoted,
entire and harmonious, to the service and glory of God. We can scarcely indeed look into any
part of the sacred volume without meeting abundant proofs, that it is the religion of the Affections
which God particularly requires. Love, Zeal, Gratitude, Joy, Hope, Trust, are each of them
specified; and are not allowed to us as weaknesses, but enjoined on us as our bounden duty,
and commended to us as our acceptable worship. Where passages are so numerous, there would
be no end of particular citations. Let it be sufficient therefore, to refer the reader to the
word of God. There let him observe too, that as the lively exercise of the passions towards
their legitimate object, is always spoken of with praise, so a cold, hard, unfeeling heart
is represented as highly criminal. Lukewarmness is stated to be the object of God's disgust
and aversion; zeal and love, of his favour and delight; and the taking away of the heart of
stone and the implanting of a warmer and more tender nature in its stead, is specifically promised
as the effect of his returning favour, and the work of his renewing grace. It is the prayer
of an inspired teacher, in behalf of those for whom he was most interested, "that their love"
(already acknowledged to be great) "might abound yet more and more:" Those modes of worship
are set forth and prescribed, which are best calculated to excite the dormant affections, and
to maintain them in lively exercise; and the aids of music and singing are expressly superadded
to increase their effect. If we look to the most eminent of the Scripture Characters, we shall
find them warm, zealous, and affectionate. When engaged in their favourite work of celebrating
the goodness of their Supreme Benefactor, their souls appear to burn within them, their hearts
kindle into rapture; the powers of language are inadequate to the expression of their transports;
and they call on all nature to swell the chorus, and to unite with them in hallelujahs of gratitude,
and joy, and praise. The man after God's own heart most of all abounds in these glowing effusions;
and his compositions appear to have been given us in order to set the tone, as it were, to
all succeeding generations. Accordingly (to quote the words of a late excellent prelate[29],
who was himself warmed with the same heavenly flame) "in the language of this divine book,
the praises of the church have been offered up to the Throne of Grace from age to age." Again,
when it pleased God to check the future apostle of the Gentiles in his wild career, and to
make him a monument of transforming grace; was the force of his affections diminished, or was
it not only that their direction was changed? He brought his affections entire and unabated
into the service of his blessed Master. His zeal now burned even with an increase of brightness;
and no intenseness, no continuance of suffering could allay its ardor, or damp the fervors
of his triumphant exultations. Finally--The worship and service of the glorified spirits in
Heaven, is not represented to us a cold intellectual investigation, but as the worship and
service of gratitude and love. And surely it will not be disputed, that it should be even here
the humble endeavour of those, who are promised while on earth "to be made meet to be partakers
of the inheritance of the saints in light," to bring their hearts into a capacity for joining
in those everlasting praises.

BUT it may not be unadvisable for the writer here to guard against a mistaken supposition,
from which the mind of our Objector by no means appears exempt, that the force of the religious
affections is to be mainly estimated (I had almost said by the thermometer) by the degree of
mere animal fervor, by ardors, and transports, and raptures, of which, from constitutional
temperament, a person may be easily susceptible; or into which daily experience must convince
us, that people of strong conceptions and of warm passions may work themselves without much
difficulty, where their hearts are by no means truly or deeply interested. Every tolerable
actor can attest the truth of this remark. These high degrees of the passions bad men may experience,
good men may want. They may be affected; they may be genuine; but whether genuine or affected,
they form not the true standard by which the real nature or strength of the religious affections
is to be determined. To ascertain these points, we must examine, whether they appear to be
grounded in knowledge, to have their root in strong and just conceptions of the great and manifold
excellences of their object, or to be ignorant, unmeaning, or vague: whether they are natural
and easy, or constrained and forced; wakeful and apt to fix on their great objects, delighting
in their proper nutriment (if the expression may be allowed) the exercises of prayer and praise,
and religious contemplation; or voluntarily omitting offered occasions of receiving it, looking
forward to them with little expectation, looking back on them with little complacency, and
being disappointed of them with little regret: by observing whether these religious affections
are merely occasional visitants, or the abiding inmates of the soul: whether they have got
the mastery over the vicious passions and propensities, with which in their origin, and nature,
and tendency, they are at open variance; or whether if the victory be not yet complete, the
war is at least constant, and the breach irreconcilable: whether they moderate and regulate
all the inferior appetites and desires which are culpable only in their excess, thus striving
to reign in the bosom with a settled undisputed predominance: by examining, whether above all
they manifest themselves by prompting to the active discharge of the duties of life, the personal,
and domestic, and relative, and professional, and social, and civil duties. Here the wideness
of their range and the universality of their influence, will generally serve to distinguish
them from those partial efforts of diligence and self-denial, to which mankind are prompted
by subordinate motives. All proofs other than this deduced from conduct, are in some degree
ambiguous. This, this only, whether we argue from Reason or from Scripture, is a sure infallible
criterion. From the daily incidents of conjugal and domestic life, we learn that a heat of
affection occasionally vehement, but superficial and transitory, may consist too well with
a course of conduct, exhibiting incontestable proofs of neglect and unkindness. But the passion,
which alone the Holy Scriptures dignify with the name of Love, is a deep, not a superficial
feeling; a fixed and permanent, not an occasional emotion. It proves the validity of its title,
by actions corresponding with its nature, by practical endeavours to gratify the wishes and
to promote the interests of the object of affection. "If a man love me, he will keep my sayings."
"This is the love of God, that we keep his commandments." This therefore is the best standard
by which to try the quality, or, the quality being ascertained, to estimate the strength of
the religious affections. Without suffering ourselves to derive too much complacency from transient
fervors of devotion, we should carefully and frequently prove ourselves by this less dubitable
test; impartially examining our daily conduct; and often comparing our actual, with our possible
services, the fair amount of our exertions, with our natural or acquired means and opportunities
of usefulness.

After this large explanation, the prolixity of which will we trust be pardoned on account of
the importance of the subject, and the danger of mistakes both on the right hand and on the
left, we are perfectly ready to concede to the objector, whose arguments we have so long been
considering, that the religious affections must be expected to be more or less lively in different
men, and in the same man at different times, in proportion to natural tempers, ages, situations,
and habits of life. But, to found an objection on this ground, would be as unreasonable as
it were altogether to deny the obligation of the precepts, which command us to relieve the
necessities of the indigent, because the infinitely varying circumstances of mankind must render
it impossible to specify beforehand the sum which each individual ought on the whole to allot
to this purpose, or to fix in every particular instance, on any determinate measure, and mode
of contribution. To the one case no less than to the other, we may apply the maxim of an eminent
writer; "An honest heart is the best casuist." He who every where but in Religion is warm and
animated, there only phlegmatic and cold, can hardly expect (especially if this coldness be
not the subject of unfeigned humiliation and sorrow) that his plea on the ground of natural
temper should be admitted; any more than that of a person who should urge his poverty as a
justification of his not relieving the wants of the necessitous, at the very time that he should
be launching out into expence without restraint, on occasions in which he should be really
prompted by his inclinations. In both cases, "it is the willing mind which is required." Where
that is found "every man will be judged according to what he hath, and not according to what
he hath not[30]."

After the decisive proofs already adduced from the word of God, of the unreasonableness of
the objection to the admission of the passions into Religion, all farther arguments may appear
superfluous to any one who is disposed to bow to scriptural authority. Yet the point is of
so much importance, and it is to be feared, so little regarded, that it may not be amiss to
continue the discussion. The best results of our understanding will be shewn to fall in with
what clearly appears to be the authoritative language of revelation; and to call in the aid
of the affections to the service of Religion, will prove to be not only what sober reason may
permit, as in some sort allowable; but to be that which she clearly and strongly dictates to
our deliberate judgments, as being what the circumstances of our natural condition indispensably
require. We have every one of us a work to accomplish, wherein our eternal interests are at
stake; a work to which we are naturally indisposed. We live in a world abounding with objects
which distract our attention and divert our endeavours; and a deadly enemy is ever at hand
to seduce and beguile us. If we persevere indeed, success is certain; but our efforts must
know no remission. There is a call on us for vigorous and continual resolution, self-denial,
and activity. Now, man is not a being of mere intellect.

    Video meliora proboque, deteriora sequor,

is a complaint which, alas! we all of us might daily utter. The slightest solicitation of appetite
is often able to draw us to act in opposition to our clearest judgment, our highest interests,
and most resolute determinations. Sickness, poverty, disgrace, and even eternal misery itself,
sometimes in vain solicit our regards; they are all excluded from the view, and thrust as it
were beyond the sphere of vision, by some poor unsubstantial transient object, so minute and
contemptible as almost to escape the notice of the eye of reason.

These observations are more strikingly confirmed in our religious concerns than in any other;
because in them the interests at stake are of transcendant importance: but they hold equally
in every instance according to its measure, wherein there is a call for laborious, painful,
and continued exertions, from which any one is likely to be deterred by obstacles, or seduced
by the solicitations of pleasure. What then it to be done in the case of any such arduous and
necessary undertaking? The answer is obvious--You should endeavour not only to convince the
understanding, but also to affect the heart; and for this end, you must secure the reinforcement
of the passions. This is indeed the course which would be naturally followed by every man of
common understanding, who should know that some one for whom he was deeply interested, a child,
for instance, or a brother, were about to enter on a long, difficult, perilous, and critical
adventure, wherein success was to be honour and affluence; defeat was to be contempt and ruin.
And still more, if the parent were convinced that his child possessed faculties which, strenuously
and unremittingly exerted, would prove equal to all the exigences of the enterprize, but knew
him also to be volatile and inconstant, and had reason to doubt his resolution and his vigilance;
how would the friendly monitor's endeavour be redoubled, so to possess his pupil's mind with
the worth and dignity of the undertaking, that there should be no opening for the entrance
of any inferior consideration!--"Weigh well (he would say) the value of the object for which
you are about to contend, and contemplate and study its various excellences, till your whole
soul be on fire for its acquisition. Consider too, that, if you fail, misery and infamy are
united in the alternative which awaits you. Let not the mistaken notion of its being a safe
and easy service, for a moment beguile you into the discontinuance or remission of your efforts.
Be aware of your imminent danger, and at the same time know your true security. It is a service
of labour and peril; but one wherein the powers which you possess, strenuously and perseveringly
exerted, cannot but crown you with victory. Accustom yourself to look first to the dreadful
consequences of failure; then fix your eye on the glorious prize which is before you; and when
your strength begins to fail, and your spirits are well nigh exhausted, let the animating view
rekindle your resolution, and call forth in renewed vigour the fainting energies of your soul."

It was the remark of an unerring observer, "The children of this world are wiser in their generation
than the children of light." And it is indisputably true, that in religion we have to argue
and plead with men for principles of action, the wisdom and expediency of which are universally
acknowledged in matters of worldly concern. So it is in the instance before us. The case which
has been just described, is an exact, but a faint representation of our condition in this life.
Frail and "infirm of purpose," we have a business to execute of supreme and indispensable necessity.
Solicitations to neglect it every where abound: the difficulties and dangers are numerous and
urgent; and the night of death cometh, how soon we know not, "when no man can work." All this
is granted. It seems to be a state of things wherein one should look out with solicitude for
some powerful stimulants. Mere knowledge is confessedly too weak. The affections alone remain
to supply the deficiency. They precisely meet the occasion, and suit the purposes intended.
Yet, when we propose to fit ourselves for our great undertaking, by calling them in to our
help, we are to be told that we are acting contrary to reason. Is this reasonable, to strip
us first of our armour of proof, and then to send us to the sharpest of encounters? To summon
us to the severest labours, but first to rob us of the precious cordials which should brace
our sinews and recruit our strength?

Let these pretended advocates for reason at length then confess their folly, and do justice
to the superior wisdom as well as goodness of our heavenly Instructor, who better understanding
our true condition, and knowing our frowardness and inadvertency, has most reasonably as well
as kindly pointed out and enjoined on us the use of those aids which may counteract our infirmities;
who commanding the effect, has commanded also the means whereby it may be accomplished.

And now, if the use of the affections in religion, in general, be at length shewn to be conformable
to reason, it will not require many words to prove that our blessed Saviour is the proper object
of them. We know that love, gratitude, joy, hope, trust, (the affections in question) have
all their appropriate objects. Now it must be at once conceded, that if these appropriate objects
be not exhibited, it is perfectly unreasonable to expect that the correspondent passions should
be excited. If we ask for love, in the case of an object which has no excellence or desirableness;
for gratitude, where no obligation has been conferred; for joy, where there is no just cause
of self-congratulation; for hope, where nothing is expected; for trust, where there exists
no ground of reliance; then indeed, we must kiss the rod, and patiently submit to correction.
This would be indeed Egyptian bondage, to demand the effects without the means of producing
them. Is the case then so? Are we ready to adopt the language of the avowed enemies of our
adorable Saviour; and again to say of him "in whom dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead
bodily," that "he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty
that we should desire him[31]?" Is it no obligation, that he who "thought it not robbery to
be equal with God," should yet for our sakes "make himself of no reputation, and take upon
him the form of a servant, and be made in the likeness of men; and humble himself, and become
obedient unto death, even the death of the cross[32]?" Is it no cause of "joy, that to us is
born a Saviour[33]", by whom we may "be delivered from the power of darkness; and be made meet
to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light[34]?" Can there be a "hope comparable
to that of our calling[35]"--"Which is Christ in us, the hope of glory[36]?" Can there be a
trust to be preferred to the reliance on "Christ Jesus; who is the same yesterday, to-day,
and for ever[37]?" Surely, if our Opponent be not dead to every generous emotion, he cannot
look his own objection in the face, without a blush of shame and indignation.

SECTION III.

Consideration of the Reasonableness of Affections towards an invisible Being.

But forced at last to retreat from his favourite position, and compelled to acknowledge that
the religious affections towards our blessed Saviour are not unreasonable; he still however
maintains the combat, suggesting that by the very constitution of our nature, we are not susceptible
of them towards an invisible Being; in whose case, it will be added, we are shut out from all
those means of communication and intercourse, which knit and cement the union between man and man.

We mean not to deny that there is something in this objection. It might even seem to plead
the authority of Scripture in its favour--"He that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen,
how can he love God whom he hath not seen[38]?"

We receive impressions more readily from visible objects, we feel them more strongly, and retain
them more durably. But though it must be granted that this circumstance makes it a more difficult
task to preserve the affections in question in a healthful and vigorous state; is it thereby
rendered impossible? This were indeed a most precipitate conclusion; and any one who should
be disposed to admit the truth of it, might be at least induced to hesitate, when he should
reflect that the argument applies equally against the possibility of the love of God, a duty
of which the most cursory reader of Scripture, if he admit its divine authority, cannot but
acknowledge the indispensable obligation. But we need only look back to the Scripture proofs
which have been lately adduced, to be convinced that the religious affections are therein inculcated
on us, as a matter of high and serious obligation. Hence we may be assured that the impossibility
stated by our Opponent does not exist.

Let us scrutinize this matter, however, a little more minutely, and we shall be compelled to
acknowledge, though the conclusion may make against ourselves, that the objection vanishes
when we fairly and accurately investigate the circumstances of the case. With this view, let
us look a little into the nature of the affections of the human mind, and endeavour to ascertain
whence it is that they derive their nutriment, and are found from experience to increase in
strength.

The state of man is such, that his feelings are not the obedient servants of his reason, prompt
at once to follow its dictates, as to their direction, and their measure. Excellence is the
just object of love; good in expectancy, of hope; evil to be apprehended, of fear; our fellow
creatures' misfortunes, and sufferings, constitute the just objects of pity. Each of these
passions, it might be thought, would be excited, in proportion to what our reason should inform
us were the magnitude and consequent claims of its corresponding object. But this is by no
means the case. Take first for a proof the instance of pity. We read of slaughtered thousands
with less emotion, than we hear the particulars of a shocking accident which has happened in
the next street; the distresses of a novel, which at the same time we know to be fictitious,
affect us more than the dry narrative of a battle. We become so much interested by these incidents
of the imagination (aware all the while that they are merely such) that we cannot speedily
banish them from our thoughts, nor recover the tone of our minds; and often, we scarcely bring
ourselves to lay down our book at the call of real misfortune, of which we go perhaps to the
relief, on a principle of duty, but with little sense of interest or emotion of tenderness.
It were easy to shew that it is much the same in the case of the other affections. Whatever
be the cause of this disproportion, which (as metaphysics fall not within our province) we
shall not stop to examine, the fact is undeniable. There appears naturally to be a certain
strangeness between the passion and its object, which familiarity and the power of habit must
gradually overcome. You must contrive to bring them into close contact; they must be jointed
and glued together by the particularities of little incidents. Thus in the production of heat
in the physical world, the flint and the steel produce not the effect without collision; the
rudest Barbarian will tell us the necessity of attrition, and the chemist of mixture. Now,
an object, it is admitted, is brought into closer contact with its corresponding passion, by
being seen and conversed with. This we grant is one way; but does it follow that there is no
other? To assert this, would be something like maintaining, in contradiction to universal experience,
that objects of vision alone are capable of attracting our regard. But nothing can be more
unfounded than such a supposition. It might appear to be too nearly approaching to the ludicrous,
to suggest as an example to the contrary, the metaphysician's attachment to his insubstantial
speculations, or the zeal displayed in the pursuit,

    Extra flammantia moenia mundi,

of abstract sciences, where there is no idea of bringing them "within the visible diurnal sphere"
to the vulgarity of practical application. The instance of the novel before-mentioned, proves,
that we may be extremely affected by what we know to be merely ideal incidents and beings.
By much thinking or talking of any one; by using our minds to dwell on his excellences; by
placing him in imaginary situations which interest and affect us; we find ourselves becoming
insensibly more and more attached to him: whereas it is the surest expedient for extinguishing
an attachment which already exists, to engage in such occupations or society, as may cause
our casual thoughts and more fixed meditations to be diverted from the object of it. Ask a
mother who has been long separated from her child, especially if he has been in circumstances
of honour, or of danger, to draw her attention to him, and to keep it in wakefulness and exercise,
and she will tell you, that so far from becoming less dear, he appears to have grown more the
object of her affections. She seems to herself to love him even better than the child who has
been living under her roof, and has been daily in her view. How does she rejoice in his good
fortune, and weep over his distresses! With what impatience does she anticipate the time of
his return!

We find therefore that sight and personal intercourse do not seem necessary to the production
or increase of attachment, where the means of close contact have been afforded; but on the
other hand, if an object have been prevented from coming into close contact, sight and personal
intercourse are not sufficient to give it the power of exciting the affections in proportion
to its real magnitude. Suppose the case of a person whom we have often seen, and may have occasionally
conversed with, and of whom we have been told in the general, that he possesses extraordinary
merits. We assent to the assertion. But if we have no knowledge of particulars, no close acquaintance
with him, nothing in short which brings his merits home to us, they interest us less than what
we know to be a far inferior degree of the very same qualities in one of our common associates.
A parent has several children, all constantly under his eye, and equally dear to him. Yet if
any one of them be taken ill, it is brought into so much closer contact than before, that it
seems to absorb and engross the parent's whole affection. Thus then, though it will not be
denied that an object by being visible may thereby excite its corresponding affection with
more facility; yet this is manifestly far from being the prime consideration. And so far are
we from being the slaves of the sense of vision, that a familiar acquaintance with the intrinsic
excellences of an object, aided, it must be admitted, by the power of habit, will render us
almost insensible to the impressions which its outward form conveys, and able entirely to lose
the consciousness of an unsightly exterior.

We may be permitted to remark, that the foregoing observations furnish an explanation, less
discreditable than that which has been sometimes given, of an undoubted phænomenon in the human
mind, that the greatest public misfortunes, however the understanding may lecture, are apt
really to affect our feelings less than the most trivial disaster which happens to ourselves.
An eminent writer[39] scarcely overstated the point when he observed, "that it would occasion
a man of humanity more real disturbance to know that he was the next morning to lose his little
finger, than to hear that the great empire of China had been suddenly swallowed up by an earthquake.
The thoughts of the former, would keep him awake all night; in the latter case, after making
many melancholy reflections on the precariousness of human life, and the vanity of all the
labours of man which could be thus annihilated in a moment; after a little speculation too
perhaps on the causes of the disaster, and its effects in the political and commercial world;
he would pursue his business or his pleasure with the same ease and tranquillity as if no such
accident had happened; and snore at night with the most profound serenity over the ruin of
a hundred million of his fellow creatures. Selfishness is not the cause of this, for the most
unfeeling brute on earth would surely think nothing of the loss of a finger, if he could thereby
prevent so dreadful a calamity." This doctrine of contact which has been opened above, affords
a satisfactory solution; and from all which has been said (the writer has reason perhaps to
apologize for the length of the discussion) the circumstances, by which the affections of the
mind towards any particular object are generated and strengthened, may be easily collected.
The chief of these appear to be, whatever tends to give a distinct and lively impression of
the object, by setting before us its minute parts, and by often drawing towards it the thoughts
and affections, so as to invest it by degrees with a confirmed ascendency: whatever tends to
excite and to keep in exercise a lively interest in its behalf: in other words; full knowledge,
distinct and frequent mental entertainment, and pathetic contemplations. Supposing these means
to have been used in any given degree, it may be expected, that they will be more or less efficacious,
in proportion as the intrinsic qualities of the object afford greater or less scope for their
operation, and more or fewer materials with which to work. Can it then be conceived, that they
will be of no avail when steadily practised in the case of our Redeemer! If the principles
of love, and gratitude, and joy, and hope, and trust, are not utterly extinct within us, they
cannot but be called forth by the various corresponding objects which that blessed contemplation
would gradually bring forth to our view.

BUT fresh considerations pour in to render in this instance, the plea of its being impossible
to love an invisible being, still more invalid. Our blessed Saviour, if we may be permitted
so to say, is not removed far from us; and the various relations in which we stand towards
him, seem purposely made known to us, in order to furnish so many different bonds of connection
with him, and consequent occasions of continual intercourse. He exhibits not himself to us
"dark with excessive brightness," but is let down as it were to the possibilities of human
converse. We may not think that he is incapable of entering into our little concerns, and sympathizing
with them; for we are graciously assured that he is not one "who cannot be touched with the
feeling of our infirmities, having been in all points tempted like as we are[41]." The figures
under which he is represented, are such as convey ideas of the utmost tenderness. "I will not
leave you orphans[44]" was one of his last consolatory declarations[45]. The children of Christ
are here separated indeed from the personal view of him; but not from his paternal affection
and paternal care. Meanwhile let them quicken their regards by the animating anticipation of
that blessed day, when he "who is gone to prepare a place for them, will come again to receive
them unto himself." Then shall they be admitted to his more immediate presence: "Now we see
through a glass darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know, even
as I am known[46]."

Surely more than enough has been now said to prove that this particular case, from its very
nature, furnishes the most abundant and powerful considerations and means for exciting the
feelings; and it might be contended, without fear of refutation, that by the diligent and habitual
use of those considerations and means, we might with confident expectation of success, engage
in the work of raising our affections towards our blessed Saviour to a state of due force and
activity. But, blessed be God, we have a still better reliance; for the grand circumstance
of all yet remains behind, which the writer has been led to defer, from his wish to contend
with his opponents on their own ground. This circumstance is, that here, no less than in other
particulars, the Christian's hope is founded, not on the speculations or the strength of man,
but on the declaration of Him who cannot lie, on the power of Omnipotence.

We learn from the Scriptures that it is one main part of the operations of the Holy Spirit,
to implant these heavenly principles in the human mind, and to cherish their growth. We are
encouraged to believe that in answer to our prayers, this aid from above will give efficacy
to our earnest endeavours, if used in humble dependence on divine grace. We may therefore with
confidence take the means which have been suggested. But let us, in our turn, be permitted
to ask our opponents, have they humbly and perseveringly applied for this divine strength?
or disclaiming that assistance, perhaps as tempting them to indolence, have they been so much
the more strenuous and unwearied in the use of their own unaided endeavours? or rather have
they not been equally negligent of both? Renouncing the one, they have wholly omitted the other.
But this is far from being all. They even reverse all the methods which we have recommended
as being calculated to increase regard; and exactly follow that course which would be pursued
by any one who should wish to reduce an excessive affection. Yet thus leaving untried all the
means, which, whether from Reason or Scripture, we maintain to be necessary to the production
of the end, nay using such as are of a directly opposite nature, these men presume to talk
to us of impossibilities! We may rather contend that they furnish a fresh proof of the soundness
of our reasonings. We lay it down as a fundamental position, that speculative knowledge alone,
that mere superficial cursory considerations, will be of no avail. Nothing is to be done without
the diligent continued use of the appointed method. They themselves afford an instance of the
truth of our assertions; and while they supply no argument against the efficacy of the mode
prescribed, they acknowledge at least that they are wholly ignorant of any other.

BUT let us now turn our eyes to Christians of a higher order, to those who have actually proved
the truth of our reasonings; who have not only assumed the name, but who have possessed the
substance, and felt the power of Christianity; who though often foiled by their remaining corruptions,
and shamed and cast down under a sense of their many imperfections, have known in their better
seasons, what it was to experience its firm hope, its dignified joy, its unshaken trust, its
more than human consolations. In their hearts, love also towards their Redeemer has glowed;
a love not superficial and unmeaning (think not that this would be the subject of our praise)
but constant and rational, resulting from a strong impression of the worth of its object, and
heightened by an abiding sense of great, unmerited, and continually accumulating obligations;
ever manifesting itself in acts of diligent obedience, or of patient suffering. Such was the
religion of the holy martyrs of the sixteenth century, the illustrious ornaments of the English
church. They realized the theory which we have now been faintly tracing. Look to their writings,
and you will find that their thoughts and affections had been much exercised in habitual views
of the blessed Jesus. Thus they used the required means. What were the effects? Persecution
and distress, degradation and contempt in vain assailed them--all these evils served but to
bring their affections into closer contact with their object; and not only did their love feel
no diminution or abatement, but it rose to all the exigencies of the occasion, and burned with
an increase of ardor; and when brought forth at last to a cruel and ignominious death, they
repined not at their fate; but rather rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer for
the name of Christ. By the blessing of God the writer might refer to still more recent times.
But lest his authorities should be disputed, let us go to the Apostles of our Lord; and while,
on a very cursory perusal of their writings, we must acknowledge that they commend and even
prescribe to us the love of Christ, as one of the chief of the Christian graces; so on a more
attentive inspection of those writings, we shall discover abundant proofs that they were themselves
bright examples of their own precept; that our blessed Saviour was really the object of their
warmest affection, and what he had done and suffered for them the continual matter of their
grateful remembrance.

The disposition so prevalent in the bulk of nominal Christians, to form a religious system
for themselves, instead of taking it from the word of God, is strikingly observable in their
scarcely admitting, except in the most vague and general sense, the doctrine of the influence
of the Holy Spirit. If we look into the Scriptures for information on this particular, we learn
a very different lesson. We are in them distinctly taught, that "of ourselves we can do nothing;"
that "we are by nature children of wrath," and under the power of the evil spirit, our understandings
being naturally dark, and our hearts averse from spiritual things; and we are directed to pray
for the influence of the Holy Spirit to enlighten our understandings, to dissipate our prejudices,
to purify our corrupt minds, and to renew us after the image of our heavenly Father. It is
this influence which is represented as originally awakening us from slumber, as enlightening
us in darkness, as "quickening us when dead[47]," as "delivering us from the power of the devil,"
as drawing us to God, as "translating us into the kingdom of his dear Son[48]," as "creating
us anew in Christ Jesus[49]," as "dwelling in us, and walking in us[50];" so that "putting
off the old man with his deeds," we are to consider ourselves as "having put on the new man,
which is renewed in knowledge after the image of Him that created him[51]"; and as those who
are to be "an habitation of God through the Spirit[52]." It is by this Divine assistance only
that we can grow in Grace, and improve in all Holiness. So expressly, particularly, and repeatedly
does the word of God inculcate these lessons, that one would think there were scarcely room
for any difference of opinion among those who admit its authority. Sometimes[53] the whole
of a Christian's repentance and faith, and consequent holiness, are ascribed generally to the
Divine influence; sometimes these are spoken of separately, and ascribed to the same Almighty
power. Sometimes different particular graces of the Christian character, those which respect
our duties and tempers towards our fellow-creatures, no less than those which have reference
to the Supreme Being, are particularly traced to this source. Sometimes they are all referred
collectively to this common root, being comprehended under the compendious denomination of
"the Fruits of the Spirit." In exact correspondence with these representations, this aid from
above is promised in other parts of Scripture for the production of those effects; and the
withholding or withdrawing of it is occasionally threatened as a punishment for the sins of
men, and as one of the most fatal consequences of the Divine displeasure.

The Liturgy of the church of England strictly agrees with the representation, which has been
here given of the instructions of the word of God.

SECT. IV.

Inadequate conceptions entertained by nominal Christians of the terms of acceptance with God.

If then it be indeed as so has been now stated; that, in contradiction to the plainest dictates
of Scripture, and to the ritual of our established Church, the sanctifying operations of the
Holy Spirit, the first fruits of our reconciliation to God, the purchase of our Redeemer's
death, and his best gift to his true disciples, are too generally undervalued and slighted;
if it be also true, as was formerly proved, that our thoughts of the blessed Saviour are confused
and faint, our affections towards him languid and lukewarm, little proportioned to what they,
who at such a price have been rescued from ruin, and endowed with a title to eternal glory,
might be justly expected to feel towards the Author of their deliverance; little proportioned
to what has been felt by others, ransomed from the same ruin, and partakers of the same inheritance:
if this, let it be repeated, be indeed so, let us not shut our eyes against the perception
of our real state; but rather endeavour to trace the evil to its source. We are loudly called
on to examine well our foundations. If any thing be there unsound and hollow, the superstructure
could not be safe, though its exterior were less suspicious. Let the question then be asked,
and let the answer be returned with all the consideration and solemnity which a question so
important may justly demand, whether, in the grand concern of all, the means of a sinner's
acceptance with God, there be not reason to apprehend, that the nominal Christians whom we
have been addressing, too generally entertain very superficial, and confused, and (to speak
in the softest terms) highly dangerous notions? Is there not cause to fear, that with little
more than an indistinct and nominal reference to Him who "bore our sins in his own body on
the tree," they really rest their eternal hopes on a vague, general persuasion of the unqualified
mercy of the Supreme Being; or that, still more erroneously, they rely in the main, on their
own negative or positive merits? "They can look upon their lives with an impartial eye, and
congratulate themselves on their inoffensiveness in society; on their having been exempt, at
least, from any gross vice, or if sometimes accidentally betrayed into it, on its never having
been indulged habitually; or if not even so" (for there are but few who can say this, if the
term vice be explained according to the strict requisitions of the Gospel) "yet on the balance
being in their favour, or on the whole, not much against them, when their good and bad actions
are fairly weighed, and due allowance is made for human frailty." These considerations are
sufficient for the most part to compose their apprehensions; these are the cordials which they
find most at hand in the moments of serious thought, or of occasional dejection; and sometimes
perhaps in seasons of less than ordinary self-complacency, they call in also to their aid the
general persuasion of the unbounded mercy and pity of God. Yet persons of this description
by no means disclaim a Saviour, or avowedly relinquish their title to a share in the benefits
of his death. They close their petitions with the name of Christ; but if not chiefly from the
effect of habit, or out of decent conformity to the established faith, yet surely with something
of the same ambiguity of principle which influenced the expiring philosopher, when he ordered
the customary mark of homage to be paid to the god of medicine.

Others go farther than this; for there are many shades of difference between those who flatly
renounce, and those who cordially embrace the doctrine of Redemption by Christ. This class
has a sort of general, indeterminate, and ill understood dependence on our blessed Saviour.
But their hopes, so far as they can be distinctly made out (for their views also are very obscure)
appear ultimately to bottom on the persuasion that they are now, through Christ, become members
of a new dispensation, wherein they will be tried by a more lenient rule than that to which
they must have been otherwise subject. "God will not now be extreme to mark what is done amiss;
but will dispense with the rigorous exactions of his law, too strict indeed for such frail
creatures as we are to hope that we can fulfil it. Christianity has moderated the requisitions
of Divine Justice; and all which is now required of us, is thankfully to trust to the merits
of Christ for the pardon of our sins, and the acceptance of our sincere though imperfect obedience.
The frailties and infirmities to which our nature is liable, or to which our situation in life
exposes us, will not be severely judged: and as it is practice that really determines the character,
we may rest satisfied, that if on the whole our lives be tolerably good, we shall escape with
little or no punishment, and through Jesus Christ our Lord, shall be finally partakers of heavenly
felicity."

We cannot dive into the human heart, and therefore should always speak with caution and diffidence,
when from external appearances or declarations we are affirming the existence of any internal
principles and feelings; especially as we are liable to be misled by the ambiguities of language,
or by the inaccuracy with which others may express themselves. But it is sometimes not difficult
to any one who is accustomed, if the phrase may be allowed, to the anatomy of the human mind,
to discern, that generally speaking, the persons who use the above language, rely not so much
on the merits of Christ, and on the agency of Divine Grace, as on their own power of fulfilling
the moderated requisitions of Divine Justice. He will hence therefore discover in them a disposition
rather to extenuate the malignity of their disease, than to magnify the excellence of the proffered
remedy. He will find them apt to palliate in themselves what they cannot fully justify, to
enhance the merit of what they believe to be their good qualities and commendable actions,
to set as it were in an account the good against the bad; and if the result be not very unfavourable,
they conceive that they shall be entitled to claim the benefits of our Saviour's sufferings
as a thing of course. They have little idea, so little, that it might almost be affirmed that
they have no idea at all, of the importance or difficulty of the duty of what the Scripture
calls "submitting ourselves to the righteousness of God;" or of our proneness rather to justify
ourselves in his sight, than in the language of imploring penitents to acknowledge ourselves
guilty and helpless sinners. They have never summoned themselves to this entire and unqualified
renunciation of their own merits, and their own strength; and therefore they remain strangers
to the natural loftiness of the human heart, which such a call would have awakened into action,
and roused to resistance. ALL THESE THEIR SEVERAL ERRORS NATURALLY RESULT FROM THE MISTAKEN
CONCEPTION ENTERTAINED OF THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF CHRISTIANITY. They consider not that
Christianity is a scheme for "justifying the ungodly[54]," by Christ's dying for them "when
yet sinners[55][56];" a scheme "for reconciling us to God--when enemies;" and for making the
fruits of holiness the effects[57], not the cause, of our being justified and reconciled: that,
in short, it opens freely the door of mercy, to the greatest and vilest of penitent sinners;
that obeying the blessed impulse of the grace of God, whereby they had been awakened from the
sleep of death, and moved to seek for pardon, they might enter in, and through the regenerating
influence of the Holy Spirit might be enabled to bring forth the fruits of Righteousness. But
they rather conceive of Christianity as opening the door of mercy, that those who on the ground
of their own merits could not have hoped to justify themselves before God, may yet be admitted
for Christ's sake, on condition of their having previously satisfied the moderated requisitions
of Divine Justice. In speaking to others also of the Gospel scheme, they are apt to talk too
much of terms and performances on our part, on which we become entitled to an interest in the
sufferings of Christ; instead of stating the benefits of Christ's satisfaction as extended
to us freely, "without money and without price."

THE practical consequences of these errors are such as might be expected. They tend to prevent
that sense which we ought to entertain of our own natural misery and helplessness; and that
deep feeling of gratitude for the merits and intercession of Christ, to which we are wholly
indebted for our reconciliation to God, and for the will and the power, from first to last,
to work out our own salvation. They consider it too much in the light of a contract between
two parties, wherein each, independently of the other, has his own distinct condition to perform;
man--to do his duty; God--to justify and accept for Christ's sake: If they fail not in the
discharge of their condition, assuredly the condition on God's part will be faithfully fulfilled.
Accordingly, we find in fact, that they who represent the Gospel scheme in the manner above
described, give evidence of the subject with which their hearts are most filled, by their proneness
to run into merely moral disquisitions, either not mentioning at all, or at least but cursorily
touching on the sufferings and love of their Redeemer; and are little apt to kindle at their
Saviour's name, and like the apostles to be betrayed by their fervor into what may be almost
an untimely descant on the riches of his unutterable mercy. In addressing others also whom
they conceive to be living in habits of sin, and under the wrath of God, they rather advise
them to amend their ways as a preparation for their coming to Christ, than exhort them to throw
themselves with deep prostration of soul at the foot of the cross, there to obtain pardon and
find grace to help in time of need.

The great importance of the subject in question will justify our having been thus particular.
It has arisen from a wish that on a question of such magnitude, to mistake our meaning should
be impossible. But after all which has been said, let it also be remembered, that except so
far as the instruction of others is concerned, the point of importance is, the internal disposition
of the mind; where the dependence for pardon, and for holiness, is really placed; not what
the language is, in which men express themselves. And it is to be hoped that he who searches
the heart, sees the right dispositions in many who use the mistaken and dangerous language
to which we have objected.

If this so generally prevailing error concerning the nature of the Gospel offer be in any considerable
degree just; it will then explain that so generally prevailing languor in the affections towards
our blessed Saviour which was formerly remarked, and that inadequate impression of the necessity
and value of the assistance of the divine Spirit. According to the soundest principles of reasoning,
it may be also adduced as an additional proof of the correctness of our present statement,
that it so exactly falls in with those phænomena, and so naturally accounts for them. For even
admitting that the persons above mentioned, particularly the last class, do at the bottom rely
on the atonement of Christ; yet on their scheme, it must necessarily happen, that the object
to which they are most accustomed to look, with which their thoughts are chiefly conversant,
from which they most habitually derive complacency, is rather their own qualified merit and
services, though confessed to be inadequate, than the sufferings and atoning death of a crucified
Saviour. The affections towards our blessed Lord therefore (according to the theory of the
passions formerly laid down) cannot be expected to flourish, because they receive not that
which was shewn to be necessary to their nutriment and growth.

Doubtless there have been too many who, to their eternal ruin, have abused the doctrine of
Salvation by Grace; and have vainly trusted in Christ for pardon and acceptance, when by their
vicious lives they have plainly proved the groundlessness of their pretensions. The tree is
to be known by its fruits; and there is too much reason to fear that there is no principle
of faith, when it does not decidedly evince itself by the fruits of holiness. Dreadful indeed
will be the doom, above that of all others, of those loose professors of Christianity, to whom
at the last day our blessed Saviour will address those words, "I never knew you; depart from
me, all ye that work iniquity." But the danger of error on this side ought not to render us
insensible to the opposite error; an error against which in these days it seems particularly
necessary to guard. It is far from the intention of the writer of this work to enter into the
niceties of controversy. But surely without danger of being thought to violate this design,
he may be permitted to contend, that they who in the main believe the doctrines of the church
of England, are bound to allow that our dependence on our blessed Saviour, as alone the meritorious
cause of our acceptance with God, and as the means of all its blessed fruits and glorious consequences,
must be not merely formal and nominal, but real and substantial: not vague, qualified, and
partial, but direct, cordial, and entire. "Repentance towards God, and faith towards our Lord
Jesus Christ," was the sum of the apostolical instructions. It is not an occasional invocation
of the name, or a transient recognition of the authority of Christ, that fills up the measure
of the terms, believing in Jesus. This we shall find no such easy task; and if we trust that
we do believe, we should all perhaps do well to cry out in the words of an imploring suppliant
(he supplicated not in vain) "Lord help thou our unbelief." We must be deeply conscious of
our guilt and misery, heartily repenting of our sins, and firmly resolving to forsake them:
and thus penitently "fleeing for refuge to the hope set before us," we must found altogether
on the merit of the crucified Redeemer our hopes of escape from their deserved punishment,
and of deliverance from their enslaving power. This must be our first, our last, our only plea.
We are to surrender ourselves up to him to "be washed in his blood[60]," to be sanctified by
his Spirit, resolving to receive him for our Lord and Master, to learn in his school, to obey
all his commandments.

It may perhaps be not unnecessary, after having treated so largely on this important topic,
to add a few words in order to obviate a charge which may be urged against us, that we are
insisting on nice and abstruse distinctions in what is a matter of general concern; and this
too in a system, which on its original promulgation was declared to be peculiarly intended
for the simple and poor. It will be abundantly evident however on a little reflection, and
experience fully proves the position, that what has been required is not the perception of
a subtile distinction, but a state and condition of heart. To the former, the poor and the
ignorant must be indeed confessed unequal; but they are far less indisposed than the great
and the learned, to bow down to that "preaching of the cross which is to them that perish foolishness,
but unto them that are saved the power of God, and the wisdom of God." The poor are not liable
to be puffed up by the intoxicating fumes of ambition and worldly grandeur. They are less likely
to be kept from entering into the strait and narrow way, and when they have entered to be drawn
back again or to be retarded in their progress, by the cares or the pleasures of life. They
may express themselves ill; but their views may be simple, and their hearts humble, penitent,
and sincere. It is as in other cases; the vulgar are the subjects of phænomena, the learned
explain them: the former know nothing of the theory of vision or of sentiment; but this ignorance
hinders not that they see and think, and though unable to discourse elaborately on the passions,
they can feel warmly for their children, their friends, their country.

After this digression, if that be indeed a digression which by removing a formidable objection
renders the truth of the positions we wish to establish more clear and less questionable, we
may now resume the thread of our argument. Still intreating therefore the attention of those,
who have not been used to think much of the necessity of this undivided, and, if it may be
so termed, unadulterated reliance, for which we have been contending; we would still more particularly
address ourselves to others who are disposed to believe that though, in some obscure and vague
sense, the death of Christ as the satisfaction for our sins, and for the purchase of our future
happiness, and the sanctifying influence of the Holy Spirit, are to be admitted as fundamental
articles of our creed, yet that these are doctrines so much above us, that they are not objects
suited to our capacities; and that, turning our eyes therefore from these difficult speculations,
we should fix them on the practical and moral precepts of the Gospel. "These it most concerns
us to know; these therefore let us study. Such is the frailty of our nature, such the strength
and number of our temptations to evil, that in reducing the Gospel morality to practice we
shall find full employment: and by attending to these moral precepts, rather than to those
high mysterious doctrines which you are pressing on us, we shall best prepare to appear before
God on that tremendous day, when 'He shall judge every man according to his WORKS.'"

    "Vain wisdom all, and false philosophy!"

It will at once destroy this flimsy web, to reply in the words of our blessed Saviour, and
of his beloved Disciple--"This is the work of God, that ye believe in him whom he hath sent[61]."
"This is his commandment, that we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ[62]."
In truth, if we consider but for a moment the opinions (they scarcely deserve the name of system)
of men who argue thus, we must be conscious of their absurdity. This may be not inconsistently
the language of the modern Unitarian; but surely it is in the highest degree unreasonable to
admit into our scheme all the grand peculiarities of Christianity, and having admitted, to
neglect and think no more of them! "Wherefore" (might the Socinian say) "Wherefore all this
costly and complicated machinery? It is like the Tychonic astronomy, encumbered and self-convicted
by its own complicated relations and useless perplexities. It is so little like the simplicity
of nature, it is so unworthy of the divine hand, that it even offends against those rules of
propriety which we require to be observed in the imperfect compositions of the human intellect[63]."

Well may the Socinian assume this lofty tone, with those whom we are now addressing. If these
be indeed the doctrines of Revelation, common sense suggests to us that from their nature and
their magnitude, they deserve our most serious regard. It is the very theology of Epicurus
to allow the existence of these "heavenly things," but to deny their connection with human
concerns, and their influence on human actions. Besides the unreasonableness of this conduct,
we might strongly urge also in this connection the prophaneness of thus treating as matters
of subordinate consideration those parts of the system of Christianity, which are so strongly
impressed on our reverence by the dignity of the person to whom they relate. This very argument
is indeed repeatedly and pointedly pressed by the sacred writers[64].

Nor is the prophane irreverence of this conduct more striking than its ingratitude. For those
baser minds however on which fear alone can operate, that motive is superadded: and we are
plainly forewarned, both directly and indirectly, by the example of the Jewish nation, that
God will not hold them guiltless who are thus unmindful of his most signal acts of condescension
and kindness. But as this is a question of pure Revelation, reasonings from probability may
not be deemed decisive. To Revelation therefore we must appeal; and as it might be to trespass
on the reader's patience fully to discuss this most important subject, we must refer him to
the sacred Writings themselves for complete satisfaction. We would earnestly recommend it to
him to weigh with the utmost seriousness those passages of Scripture wherein the peculiar doctrines
of Christianity are expressly mentioned; and farther, to attend with due regard to the illustration
and confirmation, which the conclusions resulting from those passages receive incidentally
from the word of God. They who maintain the opinion which we are combating, will hereby become
convinced that their's is indeed an unscriptural Religion; and will learn instead of turning
off their eyes from the grand peculiarities of Christianity, to keep these ever in view, as
the pregnant principles whence all the rest must derive their origin, and receive their best
support[65].

Let us then each for himself solemnly ask ourselves, whether we have fled for refuge to the
appointed hope? And whether we are habitually looking to it, as to the only source of consolation?
"Other foundation can no man lay:" there is no other ground of dependence, no other plea for
pardon; but here there is hope, even to the uttermost. Let us labour then to affect our hearts
with a deep conviction of our need of a Redeemer, and of the value of his offered mediation.
Let us fall down humbly before the throne of God, imploring pity and pardon in the name of
the Son of his love. Let us beseech him to give us a true spirit of repentance, and of hearty
undivided faith in the Lord Jesus. Let us diligently put in practice the directions formerly
given for cherishing and cultivating the principle of the Love of Christ. With this view let
us labour assiduously to increase in knowledge, that ours may be a deeply rooted and rational
affection. By frequent meditation on the incidents of our Saviour's life, and still more on
the astonishing circumstances of his death; by often calling to mind the state from which he
proposes to rescue us, and the glories of his heavenly kingdom; by continual intercourse with
him of prayer and praise, of dependence and confidence in dangers, of hope and joy in our brighter
hours, let us endeavour to keep him constantly present to our minds, and to render all our
conceptions of him more distinct, lively, and intelligent. The title of Christian is a reproach
to us, if we estrange ourselves from Him after whom we are denominated. The name of Jesus is
not to be to us like the Allah of the Mahometans, a talisman or an amulet to be worn on the
arm, as an external badge merely and symbol of our profession, and to preserve us from evil
by some mysterious and unintelligible potency; but it is to be engraven deeply on the heart,
there written by the finger of God himself in everlasting characters. It is our title known
and understood to present peace and future glory. "Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power,
be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever[67]."

SECT. I.

One part of this title may perhaps on the first view excite some surprise in any one, who may
have drawn a hasty inference from the charges conveyed by the two preceding chapters. Such
an one might be disposed to expect, that they who have very low conceptions of the corruption
of human nature, would be proportionably less indulgent to human frailty; and that they who
lay little stress on Christ's satisfaction for sin, or on the operations of the Holy Spirit,
would be more high and rigid in their demands of diligent endeavours after universal holiness;
since their scheme implies that we must depend chiefly on our own exertions and performances
for our acceptance with God.

But any such expectations as these would be greatly disappointed. There is in fact a region
of truth, and a region of errors. They who hold the fundamental doctrines of Scripture in their
due force, hold also in its due degree of purity the practical system which Scripture inculcates.
But they who explain away the former, soften down the latter also, and reduce it to the level
of their own defective scheme. It is not from any confidence in the superior amount of their
own performances, or in the greater vigour of their own exertions, that they reconcile themselves
to their low views of the satisfaction of Christ, and of the influence of the Spirit; but it
should rather seem their plan so to depress the required standard of practice, that no man
need fall short of it, that no superior aid can be wanted for enabling us to attain to it.
It happens however with respect to their simple method of morality, as in the case of the short
ways to knowledge, of which some vain pretenders have vaunted themselves to be possessed: despising
the beaten track in which more sober and humble spirits have been content to tread, they have
indignantly struck into new and untried paths; but these have failed of conducting them to
the right object, and have issued only in ignorance and conceit.

It seems in our days to be the commonly received opinion, that provided a man admit in general
terms the truth of Christianity, though he know not or consider not much concerning the particulars
of the system; and if he be not habitually guilty of any of the grosser vices against his fellow
creatures, we have no great reason to be dissatisfied with him, or to question the validity
of his claim to the name and consequent privileges of a Christian. The title implies no more
than a sort of formal, general assent to Christianity in the gross, and a degree of morality
in practice, but little if at all superior to that for which we look in a good Deist, Mussulman,
or Hindoo.

If any one be disposed to deny that this is a fair representation of the religion of the bulk
of the Christian world, he might be asked, whether if it were proved to them beyond dispute
that Christianity is a mere forgery, would this occasion any great change in their conduct
or habits of mind? Would any alteration be made in consequence of this discovery, except in
a few of their speculative opinions, which, when distinct from practice, it is a part of their
own system, as has been before remarked, to think of little consequence, and in their attendance
on public worship, which however (knowing the good effects of religion upon the lower orders
of the people) they might still think it better to attend occasionally for example's sake?
Would not their regard for their character, their health, their domestic and social comforts,
still continue to restrain them from vicious excesses, and to prompt them to persist in the
discharge, according to their present measure, of the various duties of their stations? Would
they find themselves dispossessed of what had been to them hitherto the repository of counsel
and instruction, the rule of their conduct, their habitual source of peace, and hope, and consolation?

It were needless to put these questions. They are answered in fact already by the lives of
many known unbelievers, between whom and these professed Christians, even the familiar associates
of both, though men of discernment and observation, would discover little difference either
in conduct or temper of mind. How little then does Christianity deserve that title to novelty
and superiority which has been almost universally admitted; that pre-eminence, as a practical
code, over all other systems of ethics! How unmerited are the praises which have been lavished
upon it by its friends; praises, in which even its enemies (not in general disposed to make
concessions in its favour) have so often been unwarily drawn in to acquiesce!

Was it then for this, that the Son of God condescended to become our instructor and our pattern,
leaving us an example that we might tread in his steps? Was it for this that the apostles of
Christ voluntarily submitted to hunger and nakedness and pain, and ignominy and death, when
forewarned too by their Master that such would be their treatment? That, after all, their disciples
should attain to no higher a strain of virtue than those who rejecting their Divine authority,
should still adhere to the old philosophy?

But it may perhaps be objected that we are forgetting an observation which we ourselves have
made, that Christianity has raised the general standard of morals; to which therefore Infidelity
herself now finds it prudent to conform, availing herself of the pure morality of Christianity,
and sometimes wishing to usurp to herself the credit of it, while she stigmatizes the authors
with the epithets of ignorant dupes or designing impostors!

But let it then be asked, are the motives of Christianity so little necessary to the practice
of it, its principles to its conclusions, that the one may be spared and yet the other remain
in undiminished force? Still then, its Doctrines are no more than a barren and inapplicable
or at least an unnecessary theory, the place of which, it may perhaps be added, would be well
supplied by a more simple and less costly scheme.

But can it be? Is Christianity then reduced to a mere creed? Is its practical influence bounded
within a few external plausibilities? Does its essence consist only in a few speculative opinions,
and a few useless and unprofitable tenets? This were to run into the very error which the bulk
of professed Christians would be most forward to condemn, of making an unproductive faith the
rule of God's future judgment, and the ground of an eternal separation. Thus not unlike the
rival circumnavigators from Spain and Portugal, who setting out in contrary directions, found
themselves in company at the very time they thought themselves farthest from each other; so
the bulk of professed Christians arrive, though by a different course, almost at the very same
point, and occupy nearly the same station as a set of enthusiasts, who also rest upon a barren
faith, to whom on the first view they might be thought the most nearly opposite, and whose
tenets they with reason profess to hold in peculiar detestation. By what pernicious courtesy
of language is it, that this wretched system has been flattered with the name of Christianity.

The morality of the Gospel is not so slight a fabric. Christianity throughout the whole extent
exhibits proofs of its Divine original, and its practical precepts are no less pure than its
doctrines are sublime. Can the compass of language furnish injunctions stricter in their measure
or larger in their comprehension, than those with which the word of God abounds; "Whatsoever
ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus;"--"Be ye holy, for God is holy:"--"Be
ye perfect as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect?" We are commanded to perfect holiness,
to go on unto perfection.

Such are the Scripture admonitions; and surely they to whom such admonitions are addressed,
may not safely acquiesce in low attainments: a conclusion to which also we are led by the force
of the expressions by which Christians are characterized in Scripture, and by the radical and
thorough change, which is represented as taking place in any man on his becoming a real Christian.
"Every one," it is said, "that hath this hope, purifieth himself even as God is pure:" true
Christians are said to be "partakers of the Divine nature;"--"to be created anew in the image
of God;"--"to be temples of the Holy Ghost;" the effects of which must appear "in all goodness
and righteousness and truth."

Great as was the progress which the apostle Paul had made in all virtue, he declares of himself
that he still presses forward, "forgetting the things which are behind, and reaching forth
unto the things which are before." He prays for his beloved disciples, "that they may be filled
with all the fulness of God;" that they may be filled "with the fruits of righteousness:" "that
they might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work." Nor
is it a less pregnant and comprehensive petition, which, from our blessed Saviour's inserting
it in that form of prayer which he has given as a model for our imitation, we may infer ought
to be the habitual sentiment of our hearts; "Thy will be done in Earth as it is in Heaven."

These few extracts from the word of God will serve abundantly to vindicate the strictness of
the Christian morality: but this point will however be still more fully established, when we
proceed to investigate the nature, essence, and governing principles of the Christian character.

It is the grand essential practical characteristic of true Christians, that relying on the
promises to repenting sinners of acceptance through the Redeemer, they have renounced and abjured
all other masters, and have cordially and unreservedly devoted themselves to God. This is indeed
the very figure which baptism daily represents to us: like the father of Hannibal, we there
bring our infant to the altar, we consecrate him to the service of his proper owner, and vow
in his name eternal hostilities against all the enemies of his salvation. After the same manner
Christians are become the sworn enemies of sin; they will henceforth hold no parley with it,
they will allow it in no shape, they will admit it to no composition; the war which they have
denounced against it, is cordial, universal, irreconcilable.

But this not all--It is now their determined purpose to yield themselves without reserve to
the reasonable service of their rightful Sovereign. "They are not their own:"--their bodily
and mental faculties, their natural and acquired endowments, their substance, their authority,
their time, their influence; all these, they consider as belonging to them, not for their own
gratification, but as so many instruments to be consecrated to the honour and employed in the
service of God. This must be the master principle to which every other must be subordinate.
Whatever may have been hitherto their ruling passion; whatever hitherto their leading pursuit;
whether sensual, or intellectual, of science, of taste, of fancy, or of feeling, it must now
possess but a secondary place; or rather (to speak more correctly) it must exist only at the
pleasure, and be put altogether under the controul and direction, of its true and legitimate
superior.

Thus it is the prerogative of Christianity "to bring into captivity every thought to the obedience
of Christ." They who really feel its power, are resolved (in the language of Scripture) "to
live no longer to themselves, but to him that died for them;" they know indeed their own infirmities;
they know, that the way on which they have entered is strait and difficult, but they know too
the encouraging assurance, "They who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength;" and relying
on this animating declaration, they deliberately purpose that, so far as they may be able,
the grand governing maxim of their future lives shall be, "to do all to the glory of God."

Behold here the seminal principle, which contains within it, as in an embryo state, the rudiments
of all true virtue; which, striking deep its roots, though feeble perhaps and lowly in its
beginnings, silently progressive; and almost insensibly maturing, yet will shortly, even in
the bleak and churlish temperature of this world, lift up its head and spread abroad its branches,
bearing abundant fruits; precious fruits of refreshment and consolation, of which the boasted
products of philosophy are but sickly imitations, void of fragrance and of flavour. But,

    Igneus est ollis vigor & coelestis origo.

At length it shall be transplanted into its native region, and enjoy a more genial climate,
and a kindlier soil; and, bursting forth into full luxuriance, with unfading beauty and unexhausted
odours, shall flourish for ever in the paradise of God.

But while the servants of Christ continue in this life, glorious as is the issue of their labours,
they receive but too many humiliating memorials of their remaining imperfections, and they
daily find reason to confess, that they cannot do the things that they would. Their determination,
however, is still unshaken, and it is the fixed desire of their hearts to improve in all holiness--and
this, let it be observed, on many accounts. Various passions concur to push them forward; they
are urged on by the dread of failure, in this arduous but necessary work; they trust not, where
their all is at stake, to lively emotions, or to internal impressions however warm; the example
of Christ is their pattern, the word of God is their rule; there they read, that "without holiness
no man shall see the Lord." It is the description of real Christians, that "they are gradually
changed into the image of their Divine Master;" and they dare not allow themselves to believe
their title sure, except so far as they can discern in themselves the growing traces of this
blessed resemblance.

It is not merely however the fear of misery, and the desire of happiness, by which they are
actuated in their endeavours to excel in all holiness; they love it for its own sake: nor is
it solely by the sense of self-interest (this, though often unreasonably condemned, is but
it must be confessed a principle of an inferior order) that they are influenced in their determination
to obey the will, and to cultivate the favour of God. This determination has its foundations
indeed in a deep and humiliating sense of his exalted Majesty and infinite power, and of their
own extreme inferiority and littleness, attended with a settled conviction of its being their
duty as his creatures, to submit in all things to the will of their great Creator. But these
awful impressions are relieved and ennobled by an admiring sense of the infinite perfections
and infinite amiableness of the Divine Character; animated by a confiding though humble hope
of his fatherly kindness and protection; and quickened by the grateful recollection of immense
and continually increasing obligations. This is the Christian love of God! A love compounded
of admiration, of preference, of hope, of trust, of joy; chastised by reverential awe, and
wakeful with continual gratitude.

I would here express myself with caution, lest I should inadvertently wound the heart of some
weak but sincere believer. The elementary principles which have been above enumerated, may
exist in various degrees and proportions. A difference in natural disposition, in the circumstances
of the past life, and in numberless other particulars, may occasion a great difference in the
predominant tempers of different Christians. In one the love, in another the fear of God may
have the ascendency; trust in one, and in another gratitude; but in greater or less degrees,
a cordial complacency in the sovereignty, an exalted sense of the perfections, a grateful impression
of the goodness, and a humble hope of the favour of the Divine Being, are common to them all.--Common--the
determination to devote themselves without exceptions, to the service and glory of God.--Common--the
desire of holiness and of continual progress towards perfection.--Common--an abasing consciousness
of their own unworthiness, and of their many remaining infirmities, which interpose so often
to corrupt the simplicity of their intentions, to thwart the execution of their purer purposes,
and frustrate the resolutions of their better hours.

But some perhaps, who will not directly and in the gross oppose the conclusions for which we
have been contending, may endeavour to elude them. It may be urged, that to represent them
as of general application, is going much too far; and however true in the case of some individuals
of a higher order, it may be asserted they are not applicable to ordinary Christians; from
these so much will not surely be expected; and here perhaps there may be a secret reference
to that supposed mitigation of the requisitions of the divine Law under the Christian dispensation,
which was formerly noticed. This is so important a point that it ought not to be passed over:
let us call in the authority of Scripture; at the same time, not to tire the patience of our
readers, but a few passages shall be cited, and we must refer to the word of God itself those
who wish for fuller satisfaction. The difficulty here is not to find proofs, but to select
with discretion from the multitude which pour in upon us. Here also, as in former instances,
the positive injunctions of Scripture are confirmed and illustrated by various considerations
and inferences, suggested by other parts of the sacred Writings, all tending to the same infallible
conclusion.

In the first place, the precepts are expressed in the broadest and most general terms; there
is no hint given, that any persons are at liberty to conceive themselves exempted from the
obligation of them; and in any who are disposed to urge such a plea of exemption, it may well
excite the most serious apprehension to consider how the plea would be received by an earthly
tribunal: no weak argument this to any who are acquainted with the Scriptures, and who know
how often God is there represented as reasoning with mankind on the principles, which they
have established for their dealings with each other.

But in the next place the precepts in question contain within themselves abundant proofs of
their universal application, inasmuch as they are grounded on circumstances and relations common
to all Christians, and of the benefits of which, even our Objectors themselves (though they
would evade the practical deductions from them) would not be willing to relinquish their share.
Christians "are not their own," because "they are bought with a price;" they are not "to live
unto themselves, but to him that died for them;" they are commanded to do the most difficult
duties, "that they may be the children of their Father which is in heaven;" and "except a man
be born again of the Spirit" (thus again becoming one of the sons of God) "he cannot enter
into the kingdom of heaven." It is "because they are sons," that God has given them what in
Scripture language is styled the Spirit of adoption. It is only of "as many as are led by the
Spirit of God," that it is declared that "they are the sons of God;" and we are expressly warned
(in order as it were to prevent any such loose profession of Christianity as that which we
are here combating) "If any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his." In short,
Christians in general are every where denominated the servants and the children of God, and
are required to serve him with that submissive obedience, and that affectionate promptitude
of duty, which belong to those endearing relations. The injunction is multiplied on us, as
it were, to silence the sophistry of the caviller, and to fix the most inconsiderate mind.
And though, for the sake of argument, we should concede for the present, that, under the qualifications
formerly suggested, an ardent and vigorous affection were not indispensably required of us;
yet surely if the words have any meaning at all, the least which can be intended by them is
that settled predominant esteem and cordial preference for which we are now contending. The
conclusion which this passage forces on us, is strikingly confirmed by other parts of Scripture,
wherein the love of God is positively commended to the whole of a Christian church[68]; or
wherein the want of it[69], or wherein its not being the chief and ruling affection, is charged
on persons professing themselves Christians, as being sufficient to disprove their claim to
that appellation, or as being equivalent to denying it[70]. Let not therefore any deceive themselves
by imagining, that only an absolute unqualified renunciation of the desire of the favour of
God is here condemned. God will not accept of a divided affection; a single heart, and a single
eye are in express terms declared to be indispensably required of us. We are ordered, under
the figure of amassing heavenly treasure, to make the favour and service of God our chief pursuit,
for this very reason, because "where our treasure is, there will our hearts be also." It is
on this principle that in speaking of particular vices, such phrases are often used in Scripture,
as suggest that their criminality mainly consists in drawing away the HEART from Him who is
the just object of its preference; and that sins, which we might think very different in criminality,
are classed together, because they all agree in this grand character. Nor is this preference
asserted only over affections which are vicious in themselves, and to which therefore Christianity
might well be supposed hostile; but over those also which in their just measure are not only
lawful, but even most strongly enjoined on us. "He that loveth father and mother more than
me," says our blessed Saviour, "is not worthy of me;" "and he that loveth son or daughter more
than me, is not worthy of me[71]." The spirit of these injunctions harmonizes with many commendations
in Scripture of zeal for the honour of God; as well as with that strong expression of disgust
and abhorrence with which the lukewarm, those that are neither cold nor hot, are spoken of
as being more loathsome and offensive than even open and avowed enemies.

Another class of instances tending to the same point is furnished by those many passages of
Scripture, wherein the promoting of the glory of God is commanded as our supreme and universal
aim, and wherein the honour due unto Him is declared to be that in which He will allow no competitor
to participate. On this head indeed the Holy Scriptures are, if possible, more peremptory than
on the former; and at the same time so full as to render particular citations unnecessary,
in the case of any one who has ever so little acquaintance with the word of God.

To put the same thing therefore in another light. All who have read the Scriptures must confess
that idolatry is the crime against which God's highest resentment is expressed, and his severest
punishment denounced. But let us not deceive ourselves. It is not in bowing the knee to idols
that idolatry consists, so much as in the internal homage of the heart; as in the feeling towards
them of any of that supreme love, or reverence, or gratitude, which God reserves to himself
as his own exclusive prerogative. On the same principle, whatever else draws off the heart
from him, engrosses our prime regard, and holds the chief place in our esteem and affections,
that, in the estimation of reason, is no less an idol to us, than an image of wood or stone
would be; before which we should fall down and worship. Think not this a strained analogy;
it is the very language and argument of inspiration. The servant of God is commanded not to
set up his idol in his Heart; and sensuality and covetousness are repeatedly termed Idolatry.
"No flesh may glory in his presence;" "he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord." The sudden
vengeance by which the vain-glorious ostentation of Herod was punished, when, acquiescing in
the servile adulation of an admiring multitude, "he gave not God the glory," is a dreadful
comment on these injunctions.

These awful declarations, it is to be feared, are little regarded. Let the Great, and the Wise,
and the Learned, and the Successful lay them seriously to heart, and labour habitually to consider
their superiority, whether derived from nature, or study, or fortune, as the unmerited bounty
of God. This reflection will naturally tend to produce a disposition, instead of that proud
self complacency so apt to grow upon the human heart, in all respects opposite to it; a disposition
honourable to God, and useful to man, a temper composed of reverence, humility, and gratitude,
and delighting to be engaged in the praises, and employed in the benevolent service of the
universal Benefactor.

But, to return to our subject, it only remains to be remarked, that here as in the former instances,
the characters of the righteous and of the wicked, as delineated in Scripture, exactly correspond
with the representations which have been given of the Scripture injunctions.

The necessity of this cordial unreserved devotedness to the glory and service of God, as being
indispensable to the character of the true Christian, has been insisted on at the greater length,
not only on account of its own extreme importance, but also because it appears to be a duty
too generally overlooked. Once well established, it will serve as a fundamental principle both
for the government of the heart and regulation of the conduct; and will prove eminently useful
in the decision of many practical cases, which it might be difficult to bring under the undisputed
operation of any subordinate or appropriate rule.

SECT. II.

And now, having endeavoured to establish the strictness, and to ascertain the essential character
of true practical Christianity, let us investigate a little more in detail the practical system
of the bulk of professed Christians among ourselves[73].

It was formerly remarked, that the whole subject of Religion was often viewed from such a distance
as to be seen only in the gross. We now, it is to be feared, shall find too much cause for
believing that they who approach a little nearer, and do discover in Christianity somewhat
of a distinct form, yet come not close enough to discern her peculiar lineaments and conformation.
The writer must not be understood to mean that the several misconceptions, which he shall have
occasion to point out, will be generally found to exist with any thing like precision, much
less that they are regularly digested into a system; nor will it be expected they all should
meet in the same person, nor that they will not be found in different people, and under different
circumstances, variously blended, combined, and modified. It will be enough if we succeed in
tracing out great and general outlines. The human countenance may be well described by its
general characters, though infinitely varied by the peculiarities which belong to different
individuals, and often by such shades and minutenesses of difference, as though abundantly
obvious to our perceptions, it would exceed the power of definition to discriminate, or even
of language to express.

A very erroneous notion appears to prevail concerning the true nature of Religion. Religion,
agreeably to what has been already stated, (the importance of the subject will excuse repetition)
may be considered as the implantation of a vigorous and active principle; it is seated in the
heart, where its authority is recognized as supreme, whence by degrees it expels whatever is
opposed to it, and where it gradually brings all the affections and desires under its complete
controul and regulation.

But though the heart be its special residence, it may be said to possess in a degree the ubiquity
of its Divine Author. Every endeavour and pursuit must acknowledge its presence; and whatever
does not, or will not, or cannot receive its sacred stamp, is to be condemned as inherently
defective, and is to be at once abstained from or abandoned. It is like the principle of vitality,
which, animating and informing every part, lives throughout the whole of the human body, and
communicates its kindly influence to the smallest and remotest fibres of the frame. But the
notion of Religion entertained by many among us seems altogether different. They begin indeed,
in submission to her clear prohibitions, by fencing off from the field of human action, a certain
district, which, though it in many parts bear fruits on which they cast a longing eye, they
cannot but confess to be forbidden ground. They next assign to Religion a portion, larger or
smaller according to whatever may be their circumstances and views, in which however she is
to possess merely a qualified jurisdiction, and having so done, they conceive that without
let or hindrance they have a right to range at will over the spacious remainder. Religion can
claim only a stated proportion of their thoughts, and time, and fortune, and influence; and
of these, or perhaps of any of them, if they make her any thing of a liberal allowance, she
may well be satisfied: the rest is now their own to do what they will with; they have paid
their tythes, say rather their composition, the demands of the Church are satisfied, and they
may surely be permitted to enjoy what she has left without molestation or interference.

It is scarcely possible to state too strongly the mischief which results from this fundamental
error. At the same time its consequences are so natural and obvious, that one would think it
scarcely possible not to foresee that they must infallibly follow. The greatest part of human
actions is considered as indifferent. If men are not chargeable with actual vices, and are
decent in the discharge of their religious duties; if they do not stray into the forbidden
ground, if they respect the rights of the conceded allotment, what more can be expected from
them? Instead of keeping at a distance from all sin, in which alone consists our safety, they
will be apt not to care how near they approach what they conceive to be the boundary line;
if they have not actually passed it, there is no harm done, it is no trespass. Thus the free
and active spirit of Religion is "cribbed and hemmed in;" she is checked in her disposition
to expand her territory, and enlarge the circle of her influence. She must keep to her prescribed
confines, and every attempt to extend them will be resisted as an encroachment.

But this is not all. Since whatever can be gained from her allotment, or whatever can be taken
in from the forbidden ground, will be so much of addition to that land of liberty, where men
may roam at large, free from restraint or molestation, they will of course be constantly, and
almost insensibly, straitening and pressing upon the limits of the religious allotment on the
one hand; and on the other, will be removing back a little farther and farther the fence which
abridges them on the side of the forbidden ground. If Religion attempt for a time to defend
her frontier, she by degrees gives way. The space she occupies diminishes till it be scarcely
discernible; whilst, her spirit extinguished, and her force destroyed, she is little more than
the nominal possessor even of the contracted limits to which she has been avowedly reduced.

This it is to be feared is but too faithful a representation of the general state of things
among ourselves. The promotion of the glory of God, and the possession of his favour, are no
longer recognized as the objects of our highest regard, and most strenuous endeavours; as furnishing
to us, a vigorous, habitual, and universal principle of action. We set up for ourselves: we
are become our own masters. The sense of constant homage and continual service is irksome and
galling to us; and we rejoice in being emancipated from it, as from a state of base and servile
villainage. Thus the very tenure and condition, by which life and all its possessions are held,
undergo a total change: our faculties and powers are now our own: whatever we have is regarded
rather as a property than as a trust; or if there still exist the remembrance of some paramount
claim, we are satisfied with an occasional acknowledgment of a nominal right; we pay our pepper
corn, and take our estates to ourselves in full and free enjoyment.

Hence it is that so little sense of responsibility seems attached to the possession of high
rank, or splendid abilities, or affluent fortunes, or other means or instruments of usefulness.
The instructive admonitions, "give an account of thy stewardship,"--"occupy till I come;" are
forgotten. Or if it be acknowledged by some men of larger views than ordinary, that a reference
is to be had to some principle superior to that of our own gratification, it is, at best, to
the good of society, or to the welfare of our families: and even then the obligations resulting
from these relations, are seldom enforced on us by any higher sanctions than those of family
comfort, and of worldly interest or estimation. Besides; what multitudes of persons are there,
people without families, in private stations, or of a retired turn, to whom they are scarcely
held to apply! and what multitudes of cases to which it would be thought unnecessary scrupulosity
to extend them! Accordingly we find in fact, that the generality of mankind among the higher
order, in the formation of their schemes, in the selection of their studies, in the choice
of their place of residence, in the employment and distribution of their time, in their thoughts,
conversation, and amusements, are considered as being at liberty, if there be no actual vice,
to consult in the main their own gratification.

Thus the generous and wakeful spirit of Christian Benevolence, seeking and finding every where
occasions for its exercise, is exploded, and a system of decent selfishness is avowedly established
in its stead; a system scarcely more to be abjured for its impiety, than to be abhorred for
its cold insensibility to the opportunities of diffusing happiness. "Have we no families, or
are they provided for? Are we wealthy, and bred to no profession? Are we young and lively,
and in the gaiety and vigour of youth? Surely we may be allowed to take our pleasure. We neglect
no duty, we live in no vice, we do nobody any harm, and have a right to amuse ourselves. We
have nothing better to do, we wish we had; our time hangs heavy on our hands for want of it."

I pity the man who can travel from Dan to Beer-sheba, and cry "It is all barren." No man has
a right to be idle--Not to speak of that great work which we all have to accomplish, and surely
the whole attention of a short and precarious life is not more than an eternal interest may
well require; where is it that in such a world as this, health and leisure and affluence may
not find some ignorance to instruct, some wrong to redress, some want to supply, some misery
to alleviate? Shall Ambition and Avarice never sleep? Shall they never want objects on which
to fasten? Shall they be so observant to discover, so acute to discern, so eager, so patient
to pursue, and shall the Benevolence of Christians want employment?

Yet thus life rolls away with too many of us in a course of "shapeless idleness." Its recreations
constitute its chief business. Watering places--the sports of the field--cards! never failing
cards!--the assembly--the theatre--all contribute their aid--amusements are multiplied, and
combined, and varied, "to fill up the void of a listless and languid life;" and by the judicious
use of these different resources, there is often a kind of sober settled plan of domestic dissipation,
in which with all imaginable decency year after year wears away in unprofitable vacancy. Even
old age often finds us pacing in the same round of amusements, which our early youth had tracked
out. Meanwhile, being conscious that we are not giving into any flagrant vice, perhaps that
we are guilty of no irregularity, and it may be, that we are not neglecting the offices of
Religion, we persuade ourselves that we need not be uneasy. In the main we do not fall below
the general standard of morals, of the class and station to which we belong, we may therefore
allow ourselves to glide down the stream without apprehension of the consequences.

Some, of a character often hardly to be distinguished from the class we have been just describing,
take up with sensual pleasures. The chief happiness of their lives consists in one species
or another of animal gratification; and these persons perhaps will be found to compose a pretty
large description. It will be remembered, that it belongs not to our purpose to speak of the
grossly and scandalously profligate, who renounce all pretensions to the name of Christians;
but of those who, maintaining a certain decency of character, and perhaps being tolerably observant
of the forms of Religion, may yet be not improperly termed sober sensualists. These, though
less impetuous and more measured, are not less staunch and steady, than the professed votaries
of licentious pleasure, in the pursuit of their favourite objects. "Mortify the flesh, with
its affections and lusts," is the Christian precept; a soft luxurious course of habitual indulgence,
is the practice of the bulk of modern Christians: and that constant moderation, that wholesome
discipline of restraint and self-denial, which are requisite to prevent the unperceived encroachments
of the inferior appetites, seem altogether disused, as the exploded austerities of monkish
superstition.

Christianity calls her professors to a state of diligent watchfulness and active services.
But the persons of whom we are now speaking, forgetting alike the duties they owe to themselves
and to their fellow-creatures, often act as though their condition were meant to be a state
of uniform indulgence, and vacant, unprofitable sloth. To multiply the comforts of affluence,
to provide for the gratification of appetite, to be luxurious without diseases, and indolent
without lassitude, seems the chief study of their lives. Nor can they be clearly exempted from
this class, who, by a common error, substituting the means for the end, make the preservation
of health and spirits, not as instruments of usefulness, but as sources of pleasure, their
great business and continual care.

Others again seem more to attach themselves to what have been well termed the 'pomps and vanities
of this world.' Magnificent houses, grand equipages, numerous retinues, splendid entertainments,
high and fashionable connections, appear to constitute, in their estimation, the supreme happiness
of life. This class too, if we mistake not, will be found numerous in our days; for it must
be considered, that it is the heart, set on these things, which constitutes the essential character.
It often happens, that persons, to whose rank and station these indulgences most properly belong,
are most indifferent to them. The undue solicitude about them is more visible in persons of
inferior conditions and smaller fortunes, in whom it is not rarely detected by the studious
contrivances of a misapplied ingenuity to reconcile parade with oeconomy, and glitter at a
cheap rate. But this temper of display and competition is a direct contrast to the lowly, modest,
unassuming carriage of the true Christian: and wherever there is an evident effort and struggle
to excel in the particulars here in question, a manifest wish thus to rival superiors, to outstrip
equals, to dazzle inferiors; it is manifest the great end of life, and of all its possessions,
is too little kept in view, and it is to be feared that the gratification of a vain ostentatious
humour is the predominant disposition of the heart.

As there is a sober sensuality, so is there also a sober avarice, and a sober ambition. The
commercial and the professional world compose the chief sphere of their influence. They are
often recognized and openly avowed as just master principles of action. But where this is not
the case, they assume such plausible shapes, are called by such specious names, and urge such
powerful pleas, that they are received with cordiality, and suffered to gather strength without
suspicion. The seducing considerations of diligence in our callings, of success in our profession,
of making handsome provisions for our children, beguile our better judgments. "We rise early,
and late take rest, and eat the bread of carefulness." In our few intervals of leisure, our
exhausted spirits require refreshment; the serious concerns of our immortal souls, are matters
of speculation too grave and gloomy to answer the purpose, and we fly to something that may
better deserve the name of relaxation, till we are again summoned to the daily labours of our
employment.

Meanwhile Religion seldom comes in our way, scarcely occurs to our thoughts; and when some
secret misgivings begin to be felt on this head, company soon drowns, amusements dissipate,
or habitual occupations insensibly displace or smother the rising apprehension. Professional
and commercial men perhaps, especially when they happen to be persons of more than ordinary
reflection, or of early habits of piety not quite worn away, easily quiet their consciences
by the plea, that necessary attention to their business leaves them no time to think on these
serious subjects at present. "Men of leisure they confess should consider them; they themselves
will do it hereafter when they retire; meanwhile they are usefully or at least innocently employed."
Thus business and pleasure fill up our time, and the "one thing needful," is forgotten. Respected
by others, and secretly applauding ourselves, (perhaps congratulating ourselves that we are
not like such an one who is a spendthrift or a mere man of pleasure, or such another who is
a notorious miser) the true principle of action is no less wanting in us, and personal advancement
or the acquisition of wealth is the object of our supreme desires and predominant pursuit.

It would be to presume too much on the reader's patience to attempt a delineation of the characters
of the politician, the metaphysician, the scholar, the poet, the virtuoso, the man of taste,
in all their varieties. Of these and many other classes which might be enumerated, suffice
it to remark, and to appeal to every man's own experience for the truth of the observation,
that they in like manner are often completely engrossed by the objects of their several pursuits.
In many of these cases indeed a generous spirit surrenders itself wholly up with the less reserve,
and continues absorbed with the fuller confidence, from the consciousness of not being led
to its object by self-interested motives. Here therefore these men are ardent, active, laborious,
persevering, and they think, and speak, and act, as those, the whole happiness of whose life
turns on the success or failure of their endeavours. When such, as we have seen it, is the
undisturbed composure of mere triflers, it is less wonderful that the votaries of learning
and of taste, when absorbed in their several pursuits, should be able to check still more easily
any growing apprehension, silencing it by the suggestion, that they are more than harmlessly,
that they are meritoriously employed. "Surely the thanks of mankind are justly paid to those
more refined spirits who, superior alike to the seductions of ease, and the temptations of
avarice, devote their time and talents to the less gainful labours of increasing the stores
of learning or enlarging the boundaries of science; who are engaged in raising the character
and condition of society, by improving the liberal arts, and adding to the innocent pleasures
or elegant accomplishments of life." Let not the writer be so far misunderstood, as to be supposed
to insinuate that Religion is an enemy to the pursuits of taste, much less to those of learning
and of science. Let these have their due place in the estimation of mankind; but this must
not be the highest place. Let them know their just subordination. They deserve not to be the
primary concern, for there is another, to which in importance they bear no more proportion
than our span of existence to eternity.

Thus the supreme desires of the heart, the center to which they should tend, losing its attractive
force, are permitted without controul to take that course, whatever it may be, which best suits
our natural temper, or to which they are impelled by our various situations and circumstances.
Sometimes they manifestly appear to be almost entirely confined to a single track; but perhaps
more frequently the lines in which they move are so intermingled and diversified, that it becomes
not a little difficult, even when we look into ourselves, to ascertain the object by which
they are chiefly attracted, or to estimate with precision the amount of their several forces,
in the different directions in which they move. "Know thyself," is in truth an injunction with
which the careless and the indolent cannot comply. For this compliance, it is requisite, in
obedience to the Scripture precept, "to keep the heart with all diligence." Mankind are in
general deplorably ignorant of their true state; and there are few perhaps who have any adequate
conception of the real strength of the ties, by which they are bound to the several objects
of their attachment, or who are aware how small a share of their regard is possessed by those
concerns on which it ought to be supremely fixed.

But if it be indeed true, that except the affections of the soul be supremely fixed on God;
that unless it be the leading and governing desire and primary pursuit to possess his favour
and promote his glory, we are considered as having transferred our fealty to an usurper, and
as being in fact revolters from our lawful sovereign; if this be indeed the Scripture doctrine,
all the several attachments which have been lately enumerated, of the different classes of
society, wherever they interest the affections, and possess the soul in any such measure of
strength as deserves to be called predominance, are but so many varied expressions of disloyalty.
God requires to set up his throne in the heart, and to reign in it without a rival: if he be
kept out of his right, it matters not by what competitor. The revolt may be more avowed or
more secret; it may be the treason of deliberate preference, or of inconsiderate levity; we
may be the subjects of a more or of a less creditable master; we may be employed in services
more gross or more refined: but whether the slaves of avarice, of sensuality, of dissipation,
of sloth, or the votaries of ambition, of taste, or of fashion; whether supremely governed
by vanity and self-love, by the desire of literary fame or of military glory, we are alike
estranged from the dominion of our rightful sovereign. Let not this seem a harsh position;
it can appear so only from not adverting to what was shewn to be the essential nature of true
Religion. He who bowed the knee to the god of medicine or of eloquence, was no less an idolater
than the worshipper of the deified patrons of lewdness or of theft. In the several cases which
have been specified, the external acts indeed are different; but in principle the disaffection
is the same; and unless we return to our allegiance, we must expect the title, and prepare
to meet the punishment, of rebels on that tremendous day, when all false colours shall be done
away, and (there being no longer any room for the evasions of worldly sophistry, or the smooth
plausibilities of worldly language) "that which is often highly esteemed amongst men, shall
appear to have been abomination in the sight of God."

These fundamental truths seem vanished from the mind, and it follows of course, that every
thing is viewed less and less through a religious medium. To speak no longer of instances wherein
we ourselves are concerned, and wherein the unconquerable power of indulged appetite may be
supposed to beguile our better judgment, or force us on in defiance of it; not to insist on
the motives by which the conduct of men is determined, often avowedly, in what are to themselves
the most important incidents of life; what are the judgments which they form in the case of
others? Idleness, profusion, thoughtlessness, and dissipation, the misapplication of time or
of talents, the trifling away of life in frivolous occupations or unprofitable studies; all
these things we may regret in those around us, in the view of their temporal effects; but they
are not considered in a religious connection, or lamented as endangering everlasting happiness.
Excessive vanity and inordinate ambition are spoken of as weaknesses rather than as sins; even
covetousness itself, though a hateful passion, yet, if not extreme, scarcely presents the face
of Irreligion. Is some friend, or even some common acquaintance sick, or has some accident
befallen him? How solicitously do we inquire after him, how tenderly do we visit him, how much
perhaps do we regret that he has not better advice, how apt are we to prescribe for him, and
how should we reproach ourselves, if we were to neglect any means in our power of contributing
to his recovery! But "the mind diseased" is neglected and forgotten--"that is not our affair;
we hope (we do not perhaps really believe) that here it is well with him." The truth is, we
have no solicitude about his spiritual interest. Here he is treated like the unfortunate traveller
in the Gospel; we look upon him; we see but too well his sad condition, but (Priest and Levite
alike) we pass by on the other side, and leave him to the officious tenderness of some poor
despised Samaritan.

Nay, take the case of our very children, when our hearts being most interested to promote their
happiness, we must be supposed most desirous of determining on right principles, and where
therefore the real standard of our deliberate judgments may be indisputably ascertained: in
their education and marriage, in the choice of their professions, in our comparative consideration
and judgment of the different parts of their several characters, how little do we reflect that
they are immortal beings! Health, learning, credit, the amiable and agreeable qualities, above
all, fortune and success in life, are taken, and not unjustly taken, into the account; but
how small a share in forming our opinions is allowed to the probable effect which may be produced
on their eternal interests! Indeed the subjects of our mutual inquiries, and congratulations,
and condolences, prove but too plainly what considerations are in these cases uppermost in
our thoughts.

Such are the fatal and widely spreading effects, which but too naturally follow from the admission
of the grand fundamental error before mentioned, that of not considering Religion as a principle
of universal application and command. Robbed of its best energies, Religion now takes the form
of a cold compilation of restraints and prohibitions. It is looked upon simply as a set of
penal statutes; these, though wise and reasonable, are however, so far as they extend, abridgments
of our natural liberty, and nothing which comes to us in this shape is extremely acceptable:

    Atqui nolint occidere quemquam, posse volunt.

Considering moreover, that the matter of them is not in general very palatable, and that the
partiality of every man where his own cause is in question, will be likely to make him construe
them liberally in his own favour, we might beforehand have formed a tolerable judgment of the
manner in which they are actually treated. Sometimes we attend to the words rather than to
the spirit of Scripture injunctions, overlooking the principle they involve, which a better
acquaintance with the word of God would have clearly taught us to infer from them. At others,
"the spirit of an injunction is all;" and this we contrive to collect so dexterously, as thereby
to relax or annul the strictness of the terms. "Whatever is not expressly forbidden cannot
be very criminal; whatever is not positively enjoined, cannot be indispensably necessary--If
we do not offend against the laws, what more can be expected from us?--The persons to whom
the strict precepts of the Gospel were given, were in very different circumstances from those
in which we are placed. The injunctions were drawn rather tighter than is quite necessary,
in order to allow for a little relaxation in practice. The expressions of the sacred Writers
are figurative; the Eastern style is confessedly hyperbolical."

By these and other such dishonest shifts (by which however we seldom deceive ourselves, except
it be in thinking that we deceive others) the pure but strong morality of the word of God is
explained away, and its too rigid canons are softened down, with as much dexterity as is exhibited
by those who practise a logic of the same complexion, in order to escape from the obligations
of human statutes.

But when the law both in its spirit and its letter is obstinate and incorrigible, what we cannot
bend to our purpose we must break--"Our sins we hope are of the smaller order; a little harmless
gallantry, a little innocent jollity, a few foolish expletives which we use from the mere force
of habit, meaning nothing by them; a little warmth of colouring and licence of expression;
a few freedoms of speech in the gaiety of our hearts, which, though not perhaps strictly correct,
none but the over-rigid would think of treating any otherwise than as venial infirmities, and
in which very grave and religious men will often take their share, when they may throw off
their state, and relax without impropriety. We serve an all-merciful Being, who knows the frailty
of our nature, the number and strength of our temptations, and will not be extreme to mark
what is done amiss. Even the less lenient judicatures of human institution concede somewhat
to the weakness of man. It is an established maxim--'De minimis non curat lex.' We hope we
are not worse than the generality. All men are imperfect. We own we have our infirmities; we
confess it is so; we wish we were better, and trust as we grow older we shall become so; we
are ready to acknowledge that we must be indebted for our admission into a future state of
happiness, not to our own merit, but to the clemency of God, and the mercy of our Redeemer."

But let not this language be mistaken for that of true Christian humiliation, of which it is
the very essence to feel the burden of sin, and to long to be released from it: nor let two
things be confounded, than which none can be more fundamentally different, the allowed want
of universality in our determination, and our endeavour to obey the will of God, and that defective
accomplishment of our purposes, which even the best of men will too often find reason to deplore.
In the persons of whom we have been now speaking, the unconcern with which they can amuse themselves
upon the borders of sin, and the easy familiarity with which they can actually dally with it
in its less offensive shapes, shew plainly that, distinctly from its consequences, it is by
no means the object of their aversion; that there is no love of holiness as such; no endeavour
to acquire it, no care to prepare the soul for the reception of this divine principle, and
to expel or keep under whatever might be likely to obstruct its entrance, or dispute its sovereignty.

It is indeed a most lamentable consequence of the practice of regarding Religion as a compilation
of statutes, and not as an internal principle, that it soon comes to be considered as being
conversant about external actions rather than about habits of mind. This sentiment sometimes
has even the hardiness to insinuate and maintain itself under the guise of extraordinary concern
for practical Religion; but it soon discovers the falsehood of this pretension, and betrays
its real nature. The expedient indeed of attaining to superiority in practice, by not wasting
any of the attention on the internal principles from which alone practice can flow, is about
as reasonable, and will answer about as well, as the oeconomy of the architect, who should
account it mere prodigality to expend any of his materials in laying foundations, from an idea
that they might be more usefully applied to the raising of the superstructure. We know what
would be the fate of such an edifice.

It is indeed true, and a truth never to be forgotten, that all pretensions to internal principles
of holiness are vain when they are contradicted by the conduct; but it is no less true, that
the only effectual way of improving the latter, is by a vigilant attention to the former. It
was therefore our blessed Saviour's injunction, "Make the tree good" as the necessary means
of obtaining good fruit; and the holy Scriptures abound in admonitions, to let it be our chief
business to cultivate our hearts with all diligence, to examine into their state with impartiality,
and watch over them with continual care. Indeed it is the Heart which constitutes the Man;
and external actions derive their whole character and meaning from the motives and dispositions
of which they are the indications. Human judicatures, it is true, are chiefly conversant about
the former, but this is only because to our limited perceptions the latter can seldom be any
otherwise clearly ascertained. The real object of inquiry to human judicatures is the internal
disposition; it is to this that they adapt the nature, and proportion the degree, of their
punishments.

Yet though this be a truth so obvious, so established, that to have insisted on it may seem
almost needless; it is a truth of which we are apt to lose sight in the review of our religious
Character, and with which the habit, of considering Religion as consisting rather in external
actions, than internal principles, is at direct and open war. This mode of judging may well
be termed habitual: for though by some persons it is advisedly adopted, and openly avowed,
yet in many cases for want of due watchfulness, it has stolen insensibly upon the mind; it
exists unsuspected, and is practised, like other habits, without consciousness or observation.

In what degree soever this pernicious principle prevails, in that degree is the mischief it
produces. The vicious affections, like noxious weeds, sprout up and increase of themselves
but too naturally; while the graces of the Christian temper, exotics in the soil of the human
heart, like the more tender productions of the vegetable world, though the light and breath
of Heaven must quicken them, require on our part also, in order to their being preserved in
health and vigour, constant superintendence and assiduous care. But so far from their being
earnestly sought for, or watchfully reared, with unremitted prayers for that Divine Grace,
without which all our labours must be ineffectual; such is the result of the principle we are
here condemning, that no endeavours are used for their attainment, or they are suffered to
droop and die almost without an effort to preserve them. The culture of the mind is less and
less attended to, and at length perhaps is almost wholly neglected. Way being thus made for
the unobstructed growth of other tempers, the qualities of which are very different, and often
directly opposite, these naturally overspread and quietly possess the mind; their contrariety
to the Christian spirit not being discerned, and even perhaps their presence being scarcely
acknowledged, except when their existence and their nature are manifested in the conduct by
marks too plain to be overlooked or mistaken.

Some of the most important branches of the Christian temper, wherein the bulk of nominal Christians
appear eminently and allowedly defective, have been already noticed in this and in the preceding
chapter. Many others still remain to be particularized.

First then, it is the comprehensive compendium of the character of true Christians, that "they
are walking by faith, and not by sight." By this description is meant, not merely that they
so firmly believe in the doctrine of future rewards and punishments, as to be influenced by
that persuasion to adhere in the main to the path of duty, though tempted to forsake it by
present interest, and present gratification; but farther, that the great truths revealed in
Scripture concerning the unseen world, are the ideas for the most part uppermost in their thoughts,
and about which habitually their hearts are most interested. This state of mind contributes,
if the expression may be allowed, to rectify the illusions of vision, to bring forward into
nearer view those eternal things which from their remoteness are apt to be either wholly overlooked,
or to appear but faintly in the utmost bounds of the horizon; and to remove backward, and reduce
to their true comparative dimensions, the objects of the present life, which are apt to fill
the human eye, assuming a false magnitude from their vicinity. The true Christian knows from
experience however, that the former are apt to fade from the sight, and the latter again to
swell on it. He makes it therefore his continual care to preserve those just and enlightened
views, which through Divine mercy he has obtained. Not that he will retire from that station
in the world which Providence seems to have appointed him to fill: he will be active in the
business of life, and enjoy its comforts with moderation and thankfulness; but he will not
be "totus in illis," he will not give up his whole soul to them, they will be habitually subordinate
in his estimation to objects of more importance. The awful truth has sunk deep into his mind,
"the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal;" and
in the tumult and bustle of life, he is sobered by the still small voice which whispers to
him "the fashion of this world passes away." This circumstance alone must, it is obvious, constitute
a vast difference between the habitual temper of his mind, and that of the generality of nominal
Christians, who are almost entirely taken up with the concerns of the present world. They know
indeed that they are mortal, but they do not feel it. The truth rests in their understandings,
and cannot gain admission into their hearts. This speculative persuasion is altogether different
from that strong practical impression of the infinite importance of eternal things, which attended
with a proportionate sense of the shortness and uncertainty of all below, while it prompts
to activity from a conviction that "the night cometh when no man can work," produces a certain
firmness of texture, which hardens us against the buffets of fortune, and prevents our being
very deeply penetrated by the cares and interests, the goods or evils, of this transitory state.
Thus this just impression of the relative value of temporal and eternal things, maintains in
the soul a dignified composure through all the vicissitudes of life. It quickens our diligence,
yet moderates our ardour; urges us to just pursuits, yet checks any undue solicitude about
the success of them, and thereby enables us, in the language of Scripture, "to use this world
as not abusing it," rendering us at once beneficial to others and comfortable to ourselves.

But this is not all--besides the distinction between the nominal and the real Christian, which
results from the impressions produced on them respectively by the eternal duration of heavenly
things, there is another grounded on their nature, no less marked, nor less important. They
are stated in Scripture, not only as entitling themselves to the notice of the true Christian
from considerations of interest, but as approving themselves to his judgment from a conviction
of their excellence, and yet farther, as recommending themselves to his feelings, by their
being suited to the renewed dispositions of his heart. Indeed were the case otherwise, did
not their qualities correspond with his inclinations; however he might endure them on principles
of duty, and be coldly conscious of their superior worth, he could not lend himself to them
with cordial complacency, much less look to them as the surest source of pleasure. But this
is the light in which they are habitually regarded by the true Christian. He walks in the ways
of Religion, not by constraint, but willingly; they are to him not only safe, but comfortable;
"ways of pleasantness as well as of peace." Not but that here also he is from experience aware
of the necessity of constant support, and continual watchfulness; without these, his old estimate
of things is apt to return on him, and the former objects of his affections to resume their
influence. With earnest prayers, therefore, for the Divine Help, with jealous circumspection,
and resolute self-denial, he guards against, and abstains from, whatever might be likely again
to darken his enlightened judgment, or to vitiate his reformed taste; thus making it his unwearied
endeavour to grow in the knowledge and love of heavenly things, and to obtain a warmer admiration,
and a more cordial relish of their excellence.

That this is a just representation of the habitual judgment, and of the leading disposition
of true Christians, will be abundantly evident, if, endeavouring to form ourselves after our
proper model, we consult the sacred Scripture. But in vain are Christians there represented
as having set their affections on things above, as cordially rejoicing in the service, and
delighting in the worship of God. Pleasure and Religion are contradictory terms with the bulk
of nominal Christians. They may look back indeed on their religious offices with something
of a secret satisfaction, and even feel it during the performance of them, from the idea of
being engaged in the discharge of a duty; but this is altogether different from the pleasure
which attends an employment in itself acceptable and grateful to us. The writer must here again
guard against being understood to speak of a deficiency in the warmth and vehemence merely
of religious affections. Are the service and worship of God pleasant to these persons? it is
not asked whether they are delightful. Do they diffuse over the soul any thing of that calm
complacency, that mild and grateful composure, which bespeaks a mind in good humour with itself
and all around it, and engaged in a service suited to its taste, and congenial with its feelings?

Let us appeal to that Day which is especially devoted to the offices of Religion: Do they joyfully
avail themselves of this blessed opportunity of withdrawing from the business and cares of
life; when, without being disquieted by any doubt whether they are not neglecting the duties
of their proper callings, they may be allowed to detach their minds from earthly things, that
by a fuller knowledge of heavenly objects, and a more habitual acquaintance with them, their
hope may grow more "full of immortality?" Is the day cheerfully devoted to those holy exercises
for which it was appointed? Do they indeed "come into the courts of God with gladness?" And
how are they employed when not engaged in the public services of the day? Are they busied in
studying the word of God, in meditating on his perfections, in tracing his providential dispensations,
in admiring his works, in revolving his mercies, (above all, the transcendent mercies of redeeming
love) in singing his praises, "and speaking good of his name?" Do their secret retirements
witness the earnestness of their prayers and the warmth of their thanksgivings, their diligence
and impartiality in the necessary work of self-examination, their mindfulness of the benevolent
duty of intercession? Is the kind purpose of the institution of a Sabbath answered by them,
in its being made to their servants and dependents a season of rest and comfort? Does the instruction
of their families, or of the more poor and ignorant of their neighbours, possess its due share
of their time? If blessed with talents or with affluence, are they sedulously employing a part
of this interval of leisure in relieving the indigent, and visiting the sick, and comforting
the sorrowful, in forming plans for the good of their fellow-creatures, in considering how
they may promote both the temporal and spiritual benefit of their friends and acquaintance:
or if their's be a larger sphere, in devising measures whereby through the Divine blessing,
they may become the honoured instruments of the more extended diffusion of religious truth?
In the hours of domestic or social intercourse, does their conversation manifest the subject
of which their hearts are full? Do their language and demeanor shew them to be more than commonly
gentle, and kind, and friendly, free from rough and irritating passions?

Surely an entire day should not seem long amidst these various employments. It might well be
deemed a privilege thus to spend it, in the more immediate presence of our Heavenly Father,
in the exercises of humble admiration and grateful homage; of the benevolent, and domestic,
and social feelings, and of all the best affections of our nature, prompted by their true motives,
conversant about their proper objects, and directed to their noblest end; all sorrows mitigated,
all cares suspended, all fears repressed, every angry emotion softened, every envious or revengeful
or malignant passion expelled; and the bosom, thus quieted, purified, enlarged, ennobled, partaking
almost of a measure of the Heavenly happiness, and become for a while the seat of love, and
joy, and confidence, and harmony.

The nature, and uses, and proper employments of a Christian Sabbath, have been pointed out
more particularly, not only because the day will be found, when thus employed, eminently conducive,
through the Divine blessing, to the maintenance of the religious principle in activity and
vigour; but also because we must all have had occasion often to remark, that many persons,
of the graver and more decent sort, seem not seldom to be nearly destitute of religious resources.
The Sunday is with them, to say the best of it, a heavy day; and that larger part of it, which
is not claimed by the public offices of the church, dully drawls on in comfortless vacuity,
or without improvement is trifled away in vain and unprofitable discourse. Not to speak of
those who by their more daring profanation of this sacred season, openly violate the laws and
insult the religion of their country, how little do many seem to enter into the spirit of the
institution, who are not wholly inattentive to its exterior decorums! How glad are they to
qualify the rigor of their religious labours! How hardly do they plead against being compelled
to devote the whole of the day to Religion, claiming to themselves no small merit for giving
up to it a part, and purchasing therefore, as they hope, a right to spend the remainder more
agreeably! How dexterously do they avail themselves of any plausible plea for introducing some
weekday employment into the Sunday, whilst they have not the same propensity to introduce any
of the Sunday's peculiar employment into the rest of the week! How often do they find excuses
for taking journeys, writing letters, balancing accounts; or in short doing something, which
by a little management might probably have been anticipated, or which, without any material
inconvenience, might be postponed! Even business itself is recreation, compared with Religion,
and from the drudgery of this day of Sacred Rest they fly for relief to their ordinary occupations.

Others again who would consider business as a prophanation, and who still hold out against
the encroachments of the card table, get over much of the day, and gladly seek for an innocent
resource, in the social circle or in family visits, where it is not even pretended that the
conversation turns on such topics as might render it in any way conducive to religious instruction,
or improvement. Their families meanwhile are neglected, their servants robbed of Christian
privileges, and their example quoted by others, who cannot see that they are themselves less
religiously employed, while playing an innocent game at cards, or relaxing in the concert room.

But all these several artifices, whatever they may be, to unhallow the Sunday and to change
its character (it might be almost said "to relax its horrors,") prove but too plainly, however
we may be glad to take refuge in Religion, when driven to it by the loss of every other comfort,
and to retain as it were a reversionary interest in an asylum, which may receive us when we
are forced from the transitory enjoyments of our present state; that in itself it wears to
us a gloomy and forbidding aspect, and not a face of consolation and joy; that the worship
of God is with us a constrained and not a willing service, which we are glad therefore to abridge
though we dare not omit it.

Some indeed there are who with concern and grief will confess this to be their uncomfortable
and melancholy state; who humbly pray, and diligently endeavour, for an imagination less distracted
at devotional seasons, for a heart more capable of relishing the excellence of divine things;
and who carefully guard against whatever has a tendency to chain down their affections to earthly
enjoyments. Let not such be discouraged. It is not they whom we are condemning: but such as
knowing and even acknowledging this to be their case, yet proceed in a way directly contrary:
who, scarcely seeming to suspect that any thing is wrong with them, voluntarily acquiesce in
a state of mind which is directly contrary to the positive commands of God, which forms a perfect
contrast to the representations given us in Scripture of the Christian character, and accords
but too faithfully in one leading feature with the character of those, who are stated to be
the objects of Divine displeasure in this life, and of Divine punishment in the next.

It is not however only in these essential constituents of a devotional frame that the bulk
of nominal Christians are defective. This they freely declare (secretly feeling perhaps some
complacency from the frankness of the avowal) to be a higher strain of piety than that to which
they aspire. Their forgetfulness also of some of the leading dispositions of Christianity,
is undeniably apparent in their allowed want of the spirit of kindness, and meekness, and gentleness,
and patience, and long suffering; and above all, of that which is the stock on which alone
these dispositions can grow and flourish, that humility and lowliness of mind, in which perhaps
more than in any other quality may be said to consist the true essence and vital principle
of the Christian temper. These dispositions are not only neglected, but even disavowed and
exploded, and their opposites, if not rising to any great height, are acknowledged and applauded.
A just pride, a proper and becoming pride, are terms which we daily hear from Christian lips.
To possess a high spirit, to behave with a proper spirit when used ill,--by which is meant
a quick feeling of injuries, and a promptness in resenting them,--entitles to commendation;
and a meek-spirited disposition, the highest Scripture eulogium, expresses ideas of disapprobation
and contempt. Vanity and vain glory are suffered without interruption to retain their natural
possession of the heart. But here a topic opens upon us of such importance, and on which so
many mistakes are to be found both in the writings of respectable authors, and in the commonly
prevailing opinions of the world, that it may be allowed us to discuss it more at large, and
for this purpose to treat of it in a separate section.

SECTION III.

On the Desire of human Estimation and Applause--The generally prevailing Opinions contrasted
with those of the true Christian.

The desire of human estimation, and distinction, and honour, of the admiration and applause
of our fellow creatures, if we take it in its full comprehension, and in all its various modifications,
from the thirst of glory to the dread of shame, is the passion of which the empire is by far
the most general, and perhaps the authority the most commanding. Though its power be most conspicuous
and least controulable in the higher classes of society, it seems, like some resistless conqueror,
to spare neither age, nor sex, nor condition; and taking ten thousand shapes, insinuating itself
under the most specious pretexts, and sheltering itself when necessary under the most artful
disguises, it winds its way in secret, when it dares not openly avow itself, and mixes in all
we think, and speak, and do. It is in some instances the determined and declared pursuit, and
confessedly the main practical principle; but where this is not the case, it is not seldom
the grand spring of action, and in the Beauty and the Author, no less than in the Soldier,
it is often the master passion of the soul.

This is the principle which parents recognize with joy in their infant offspring, which is
diligently instilled and nurtured in advancing years, which, under the names of honourable
ambition and of laudable emulation, it is the professed aim of schools and colleges to excite
and cherish. The writer is well aware that it will be thought he is pushing his opinions much
too far, when he ventures to assail this great principle of human action; "a principle," its
advocates might perhaps exclaim, "the extinction of which, if you could succeed in your rash
attempt, would be like the annihilation in the material world of the principle of motion; without
it all were torpid and cold and comfortless. We grant," they might go on to observe, "that
we never ought to deviate from the paths of duty in order to procure the applause or to avoid
the reproaches of men, and we allow that this is a rule too little attended to in practice.
We grant that the love of praise is in some instances a ridiculous, and in others a mischievous
passion; that to it we owe the breed of coquettes and coxcombs, and, a more serious evil, the
noxious race of heroes and conquerors. We too are ready, when it appears in the shape of vanity,
to smile at it as a foible, or in that of false glory, to condemn it as a crime. But all these
are only its perversions; and on account of them to contend against its true forms, and its
legitimate exercise, were to give into the very error which you formerly yourself condemned,
of arguing against the use of a salutary principle altogether, on account of its being liable
to occasional abuse. When turned into the right direction, and applied to its true purposes,
it prompts to every dignified and generous enterprise. It is erudition in the portico, skill
in the lycæum, eloquence in the senate, victory in the field. It forces indolence into activity,
and extorts from vice itself the deeds of generosity and virtue. When once the soul is warmed
by its generous ardor, no difficulties deter, no dangers terrify, no labours tire. It is this
which, giving by its stamp to what is virtuous and honourable its just superiority over the
gifts of birth and fortune, rescues the rich from a base subjection to the pleasures of sense,
and makes them prefer a course of toil and hardship to a life of indulgence and ease. It prevents
the man of rank from acquiescing in his hereditary greatness, and spurs him forward in pursuit
of personal distinction, and of a nobility which he may justly term his own. It moderates and
qualifies the over-great inequalities of human conditions; and reaching to those who are above
the sphere of laws, and extending to cases which fall not within their province, it limits
and circumscribes the power of the tyrant on his throne, and gives gentleness to war, and to
pride, humility.

"Nor is its influence confined to public life, nor is it known only in the great and the splendid.
To it is to be ascribed a large portion of that courtesy and disposition to please, which naturally
producing a mutual appearance of good will, and a reciprocation of good offices, constitute
much of the comfort of private life, and give their choicest sweets to social and domestic
intercourse. Nay, from the force of habit, it follows us even into solitude, and in our most
secret retirements we often act as if our conduct were subject to human observation, and we
derive no small complacency from the imaginary applauses of an ideal spectator."

So far of the effects of the love of praise and distinction: and if after enumerating some
of these, you should proceed to investigate its nature, "We admit," it might be added, "that
a hasty and misjudging world often misapplies commendations and censures: and whilst we therefore
confess, that the praises of the discerning few are alone truly valuable; we acknowledge that
it were better if mankind were always to act from the sense of right and the love of virtue,
without reference to the opinions of their fellow-creatures. We even allow, that independently
of consequences, this were perhaps in itself a higher strain of virtue; but it is a degree
of purity which it would be vain to expect from the bulk of mankind. When the intrinsic excellence
of this principle however is called in question, let it be remembered, that in its higher degrees
it was styled, by one who meant rather to detract from its merits than to aggravate them, 'the
infirmity of noble minds;' and surely, that in such a soil it most naturally springs up, and
flourishes, is no mean proof of its exalted origin and generous nature.

"But were these more dubious, and were it no more than a splendid error; yet considering that
it works so often in the right direction, it were enough to urge in its behalf, that it is
a principle of real action, and approved energy. That, as much as practice is better than theory,
and solid realties than empty speculation, so much is it to be preferred for general use before
those higher principles of morals, which however just and excellent in themselves, you would
in vain attempt to bring home to the 'business and bosoms of mankind' at large. Reject not
then a principle thus universal in its influence, thus valuable in its effects; a principle,
which, by whatever name you may please to call it, acts by motives and considerations suited
to our condition; and which, putting it at the very lowest, must be confessed, in our present
infirm state, to be an habitual aid and an ever present support to the feebleness of virtue!
In a selfish world it produces the effects of disinterestedness, and when public spirit is
extinct, it supplies the want of patriotism. Let us therefore with gratitude avail ourselves
of its help, and not relinquish the good which it freely offers, from we know not what vain
dreams of impracticable purity and unattainable perfection."

All this and much more might be urged by the advocates of this favourite principle. It would
be however no difficult task to shew that it by no means merits this high eulogium. To say
nothing of that larger part of the argument of our opponents, which betrays, and even proceeds
upon, that mischievous notion of the innocence of error, against which we have already entered
our formal protest, the principle in question is manifestly of a most inconstant and variable
nature; as inconstant and variable as the innumerably diversified modes of fashions, habits,
and opinions in different periods and societies. What it tolerates in one age, it forbids in
another; what in one country it prescribes and applauds, in another it condemns and stigmatizes!
Obviously and openly, it often takes vice into its patronage, and sets itself in direct opposition
to virtue. It is calculated to produce rather the appearance than the reality of excellence;
and at best not to check the love but only the commission of vice. Much of this indeed was
seen and acknowledged by the philosophers, and even by the poets, of the Pagan world. They
declaimed against it as a mutable and inconsistent principle; they lamented the fatal effects
which, under the name of false glory, it had produced on the peace and happiness of mankind.
They condemned the pursuit of it when it led its followers out of the path of virtue, and taught
that the praise of the wise and of the good only was to be desired.

But it was reserved for the page of Scripture to point out to us distinctly, wherein it is
apt to be essentially defective and vicious, and to discover to us more fully its encroaching
nature and dangerous tendencies; teaching us at the same time, how, being purified from its
corrupt qualities, and reduced under just subordination, it may be brought into legitimate
exercise, and be directed to its true end.

In the sacred volume we are throughout reminded, that we are originally the creatures of God's
formation, and continual dependents on his bounty. There too we learn the painful lesson of
man's degradation and unworthiness. We learn that humiliation and contrition are the tempers
of mind best suited to our fallen condition, and most acceptable in the sight of our Creator.
We learn that these (to the repression and extinction of that spirit of arrogance and self-importance,
so natural to the heart of man) it should be our habitual care to cherish and cultivate; studiously
maintaining a continual sense, that, not only for all the natural advantages over others which
we may possess, but that for all our moral superiority also, we are altogether indebted to
the unmerited goodness of God. It might perhaps be said to be the great end and purpose of
all revelation, and especially to be the design of the Gospel, to reclaim us from our natural
pride and selfishness, and their fatal consequences; to bring us to a just sense of our weakness
and depravity; and to dispose us, with unfeigned humiliation, to abase ourselves, and give
glory to God.

These solemn admonitions are too generally disregarded, and their intimate connection with
the subject we are now considering, appears to have been often entirely overlooked, even by
Christian moralists. These authors, without reference to the main spring, and internal principle
of conduct, are apt to speak of the love of human applause, as being meritorious or culpable,
as being the desire of true or of false glory, accordingly as the external actions it produces,
and the pursuits to which it prompts, are beneficial or mischievous to mankind. But it is undeniably
manifest, that in the judgment of the word of God, the love of worldly admiration and applause
is in its nature essentially and radically corrupt; so far as it partakes of a disposition
to exalt and aggrandize ourselves, to pride ourselves on our natural or acquired endowments,
or to assume to ourselves the merit and credit of our good qualities, instead of ascribing
all the honour and glory where only they are due. Its guilt therefore in these cases, is not
to be measured by its effects on the happiness of mankind; nor is it to be denominated true
or false glory, accordingly as the ends to which it is directed are beneficial or mischievous,
just or unjust objects of pursuit; but it is false, because it exalts that which ought to be
abased, and criminal, because it encroaches on the prerogative of God.

The Scriptures further instruct us, not merely that mankind are liable to error, and therefore
that the world's commendations may be sometimes mistaken; but that their judgment being darkened
and their hearts depraved, its applauses and contempt will for the most part be systematically
misplaced; that though the beneficent and disinterested spirit of Christianity, and her obvious
tendency to promote domestic comfort and general happiness, cannot but extort applause; yet
that her aspiring after more than ordinary excellence, by exciting secret misgivings in others,
or a painful sense of inferiority not unmixed with envy, cannot fail often to disgust and offend.
The word of God teaches us, that though such of the doctrines and precepts of Christianity,
as are coincident with worldly interests and pursuits, and with worldly principles and systems,
may be professed without offence; yet, that what is opposite to these, or even different from
them, will be deemed needlessly precise and strict, the indulgence of a morose and gloomy humour,
the symptoms of a contracted and superstitious spirit, the marks of a mean, enslaved, or distorted
understanding. That for these and other reasons, the follower of Christ must not only make
up his mind to the occasional relinquishment of worldly favour, but that it should even afford
him matter of holy jealousy and suspicion of himself, when it is very lavishly and very generally
bestowed.

But though the standard of worldly estimation differed less from that of the Gospel; yet since
our affections ought to be set on heavenly things, and conversant about heavenly objects; and
since in particular the love and favour of God ought to be the matter of our supreme and habitual
desire, to which every other should be subordinated; it follows, that the love of human applause
must be manifestly injurious, so far as it tends to draw down our regards to earthly concerns,
and to bound and circumscribe our desires within the narrow limits of this world. Particularly,
that it is impure, so far as it is tinctured with a disposition to estimate too highly, and
love too well, the good opinion and commendations of man.

But though, by these and other instructions and considerations, the Holy Scripture warns us
against the inordinate desire or earnest pursuit of worldly estimation and honour; though it
so greatly reduces their value, and prepares us for losing them without surprise, and for relinquishing
them with little reluctance: yet it teaches us, that Christians in general are not only not
called upon absolutely and voluntarily to renounce or forego them; but that when, without our
having solicitously sought them, they are bestowed on us for actions intrinsically good, we
are to accept them as being intended by Providence, to be sometimes, even in this disorderly
state of things, a present solace, and a reward to virtue. Nay more, we are instructed, that
in our general deportment, that in little particulars of conduct otherwise indifferent, that
in the circumstances and manner of performing actions in themselves of a determined character
and indispensable obligation, (guarding however against the smallest degree of artifice or
deceit) that by watching for opportunities of doing little kindnesses, that by avoiding singularities,
and even humouring prejudices, where it may be done without the slightest infringment on truth
or duty, we ought to have a due respect and regard to the approbation and favour of men. These
however we should not value, chiefly as they may administer to our own gratification, but rather
as furnishing means and instruments of influence, which we may turn to good account, by making
them subservient to the improvement and happiness of our fellow creatures, and thus conducive
to the glory of God. The remark is almost superfluous, that on occasions like these we must
even watch our hearts with the most jealous care, lest pride and self love insensibly infuse
themselves, and corrupt the purity of principles so liable to contract a taint.

Credit and reputation, in the judgment of the true Christian, stand on ground not very different
from riches; which he is not to prize highly, or to desire and pursue with solicitude; but
which, when they are allotted to him by the hand of Providence, he is to accept with thankfulness,
and use with moderation; relinquishing them when it becomes necessary, without a murmur; guarding
most circumspectly, so long as they remain with him, against that sensual and selfish temper,
and no less against that pride and wantonness of heart, which they are too apt to produce and
cherish; thus considering them as in themselves acceptable, but, from the infirmity of his
nature, as highly dangerous possessions, and valuing them chiefly not as instruments of luxury
or splendour, but as affording the means of honouring his heavenly Benefactor, and lessening
the miseries of mankind.

Christianity however, as was formerly observed, proposes not to extinguish our natural desires,
but to bring them under just controul, and direct them to their true objects. In the case both
of riches and of honour, she maintains the consistency of her character. While she commands
us not to set our hearts on earthly treasures, she reminds us that "we have in Heaven a better
and more enduring substance" than this world can bestow; and while she represses our solicitude
respecting earthly credit, and moderates our attachment to it, she holds forth to us, and bids
us habitually to aspire after, the splendours of that better state, where is true glory, and
honour, and immortality; thus exciting in us a just ambition, suited to our high origin, and
worthy of our large capacities, which the little, misplaced, and perishable distinctions of
this life would in vain attempt to satisfy.

It would be mere waste of time to enter into any laboured argument to prove at large, that
the light in which worldly credit and estimation are regarded, by the bulk of professed Christians,
is extremely different from that in which they are placed by the page of Scripture. The inordinate
love of worldly glory indeed, implies a passion, which from the nature of things cannot be
called into exercise in the generality of mankind, because, being conversant about great objects,
it can but rarely find that field which is requisite for its exertions. But we every where
discover the same principle reduced to the dimensions of common life, and modified and directed
according to every one's sphere of action. We may discover it in a supreme love of distinction,
and admiration, and praise; in the universal acceptableness of flattery; and above all in the
excessive valuation of our worldly character, in that watchfulness with which it is guarded,
in that jealousy when it is questioned, in that solicitude when it is in danger, in that hot
resentment when it is attacked, in that bitterness of suffering when it is impaired or lost.
All these emotions, as they are too manifest to be disputed, so are they too reputable to be
denied. Dishonour, disgrace, and shame present images of horror too dreadful to be faced; they
are evils, which it is thought the mark of a generous spirit to consider as excluding every
idea of comfort and enjoyment, and to feel, in short, as too heavy to be borne.

The consequences of all this are natural and obvious. Though it be not openly avowed, that
we are to follow after worldly estimation, or to escape from worldly disrepute, when they can
only be pursued or avoided by declining from the path of duty; nay though the contrary be recognized
as being the just opinion; yet all the effect of this speculative concession is soon done away
in fact. Estimating worldly credit as of the highest intrinsic excellence, and worldly shame
as the greatest of all possible evils, we sometimes shape and turn the path of duty itself
from its true direction, so as it may favour our acquisition of the one, and avoidance of the
other; or when this cannot be done, we boldly and openly turn aside from it, declaring the
temptation is too strong to be resisted.

It were easy to adduce numerous proofs of the truth of these assertions. It is proved, indeed,
by that general tendency in Religion to conceal herself from the view, (for we might hope that
in these cases she often is by no means altogether extinct) by her being apt to vanish from
our conversations, and even to give place to a pretended licentiousness of sentiments and conduct,
and a false shew of infidelity. It is proved, by that complying acquiescence and participation
in the habits and manners of this dissipated age, which, has almost confounded every external
distinction between the Christian and the Infidel, and has made it so rare to find any one
who dares incur the charge of Christian singularity, or who can say with the Apostle that "he
is not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ." It is proved (how can this proof be omitted by one
to whose lot it has so often fallen to witness and lament, sometimes he fears to afford an
instance of it?) by that quick resentment, those bitter contentions, those angry retorts, those
malicious triumphs, that impatience of inferiority, that wakeful sense of past defeats, and
promptness to revenge them, which too often change the character of a Christian deliberative
Assembly, into that of a stage for prize fighters: violating at once the proprieties of public
conduct, and the rules of social decorum, and renouncing and chasing away all the charities
of the Religion of Jesus!

But from all lesser proofs, our attention is drawn to one of a still larger size, and more
determined character. Surely the reader will here anticipate our mention of the practice of
Duelling: a practice which, to the disgrace of a Christian society, has long been suffered
to exist with little restraint or opposition.

This practice, whilst it powerfully supports, mainly rests on, that excessive over-valuation
of character, which teaches that worldly credit is to be preserved at any rate, and disgrace
at any rate to be avoided. The unreasonableness of duelling has been often proved, and it has
often been shewn to be criminal on various principles: sometimes it has been opposed on grounds
hardly tenable; particularly when it has been considered as an indication of malice and revenge[77].
But it seems hardly to have been enough noticed in what chiefly consists its essential guilt;
that it is a deliberate preference of the favour of man, before the favour and approbation
of God, in articulo mortis, in an instance, wherein our own life, and that of a fellow creature
are at stake, and wherein we run the risk of rushing into the presence of our Maker in the
very act of offending him. It would detain us too long, and it were somewhat beside our present
purpose, to enumerate the mischievous consequences which result from this practice. They are
many and great; and if regard be had merely to the temporal interests of men, and to the well
being of society, they are but poorly counterbalanced by the plea, which must be admitted in
its behalf by a candid observer of human nature, of a courtesy and refinement in our modern
manners unknown to ancient times.

But there is one observation which must not be omitted, and which seems to have been too much
overlooked: In the judgment of that Religion which requires purity of heart, and of that Being
to whom, as was before remarked, "thought is action," he cannot be esteemed innocent of this
crime, who lives in a settled habitual determination to commit it, when circumstances shall
call upon him so to do[78]. This is a consideration which places the crime of duelling on a
different footing from almost any other; indeed there is perhaps NO other, which mankind habitually
and deliberately resolve to practise whenever the temptation shall occur. It shews also that
the crime of duelling is far more general in the higher classes than is commonly supposed,
and that the whole sum of the guilt which the practice produces is great, beyond what has perhaps
been ever conceived! It will be the writer's comfort to have solemnly suggested this consideration,
to the consciences of those by whom this impious practice might be suppressed: If such there
be, which he is strongly inclined to believe, their's is the crime, and their's the responsibility
of suffering it to continue[79].

In the foregoing observations, it has not been the writer's intention to discuss completely
that copious subject, the love of worldly estimation. It would be to exceed the limits of a
work like this, fully to investigate so large, and at the same time so important a topic. Enough
however may have perhaps been said, to make it evident that this principle is of a character
highly questionable; that it should be brought under absolute subjection, and watched with
the most jealous care: That, notwithstanding its lofty pretensions, it often can by no means
justly boast that high origin and exalted nature, which its superficial admirers are disposed
to concede to it. What real intrinsic essential value, it might be asked, does there appear
to be in a virtue, which had wholly changed its nature and character, if public opinion had
been different? But it is in truth of base extraction, and ungenerous qualities, springing
from selfishness and vanity, and low ambition; by these it subsists, and thrives, and acts;
and envy, and jealousy, and detraction, and hatred, and variance, are its too faithful and
natural associates. It is, to say the best of it, a root which bears fruits of a poisonous
as well as of a beneficial quality. If it sometimes stimulates to great and generous enterprises,
if it urges to industry, and sometimes to excellence, if in the more contracted sphere it produces
courtesy and kindness; yet to its account we must place the ambition which desolates nations,
and many of the competitions and resentments which interrupt the harmony of social life. The
former indeed has been often laid to its charge, but the latter have not been sufficiently
attended to; and still less has its noxious influence on the vital principle, and distinguishing
graces of the Christian character, been duly pointed out and enforced.

To read indeed the writings of certain Christian moralists,[80] and to observe how little they
seem disposed to call it in question, except where it raves in the conqueror, one should be
almost tempted to suspect; that, considering it as a principle of such potency and prevalence,
as that they must despair of bringing it into just subjection, they were intent only on complimenting
it into good humour (like those barbarous nations which worship the evil Spirit through fear;)
or rather, that they were making a sort of composition with an enemy they could not master,
and were willing, on condition of its giving up the trade of war, to suffer it to rule undisturbed,
and range at pleasure.

But the truth is, that the reasonings of Christian moralists too often exhibit but few traces
of the genius of Christian morality. Of this position, the case before us is an instance. This
principle of the desire of worldly distinction and applause, is often allowed, and even commended,
with too few qualifications, and too little reserve. To covet wealth is base and sordid, but
to covet honour is treated as the mark of a generous and exalted nature. These writers scarcely
seem to bear in mind, that though the principle in question tends to prevent the commission
of those grosser acts of vice which would injure us in the general estimation; yet that it
not only stops there, but that it there begins to exert almost an equal force in the opposite
direction. They do not consider how apt this principle is, even in the case of those who move
in a contracted sphere, to fill us with vain conceits, and vicious passions; and above all
how it tends to fix the affections on earthly things, and to steal away the heart from God.
They acknowledge it to be criminal when it produces mischievous effects, but forget how apt
it is, by the substitution of a false and corrupt motive, to vitiate the purity of our good
actions, depriving them of all which rendered them truly and essentially valuable. That, not
to be too hastily approved, because it takes the side of virtue, it often works her ruin while
it asserts her cause, and like some vile seducer, pretends affection only the more surely to
betray.

It is the distinguishing glory of Christianity not to rest satisfied with superficial appearances,
but to rectify the motives, and purify the heart. The true Christian, in obedience to the lessons
of Scripture, no where keeps over himself a more resolute and jealous guard, than where the
desire of human estimation and distinction is in question. No where does he more deeply feel
the insufficiency of his unassisted strength, or more diligently and earnestly pray for divine
assistance. He may well indeed watch and pray against the encroachments of a passion, which,
when suffered to transgress its just limits, discovers a peculiar hostility to the distinguishing
graces of the Christian temper; a passion which must insensibly acquire force, because it is
in continual exercise; to which almost every thing without administers nutriment, and the growth
of which within is favoured and cherished by such powerful auxiliaries as pride and selfishness,
the natural and perhaps inexterminable inhabitants of the human heart; of which the predominance,
if established, is thus so pernicious, and which possesses so many advantages for effecting
its establishment.

Strongly impressed therefore with a sense of the indispensable necessity of guarding against
the progress of this encroaching principle, in humble reliance on superior aid, the true Christian
thankfully uses the means, and habitually exercises himself in the considerations and motives,
suggested to him for that purpose by the word of God. He is much occupied in searching out,
and contemplating his own infirmities. He endeavours to acquire and maintain a just conviction
of his great unworthiness; and to keep in continual remembrance, that whatever distinguishes
himself from others, is not properly his own, but that he is altogether indebted for it to
the undeserved bounty of Heaven. He diligently endeavours also, habitually to preserve a just
sense of the real worth of human distinction and applause, knowing that he shall covet them
less when he has learned not to over-rate their value. He labours to bear in mind, how undeservedly
they are often bestowed, how precariously they are always possessed. The censures of good men
justly render him suspicious of himself, and prompt him carefully and impartially to examine
into those parts of his character, or those particulars of his conduct, which have drawn on
him their animadversions. The favourable opinion and the praises of good men are justly acceptable
to him, where they accord with the testimony of his own heart; that testimony being thereby
confirmed and warranted. Those praises favour also and strengthen the growth of mutual confidence
and affection, where it is his delight to form friendships, rich not less in use than comfort,
and to establish connections which may last for ever. But even in the case of the commendations
of good men, he suffers not himself to be beguiled into an over-valuation of them, lest he
should be led to substitute them in the place of conscience. He guards against this by reflecting
how indistinctly we can discern each other's motives, how little enter into each other's circumstances,
how mistaken therefore may be the judgments formed of us, or of our actions, even by good men,
and that it is far from improbable, that we may at some time be compelled to forfeit their
esteem, by adhering to the dictates of our own consciences.

But if he endeavours thus to set loose to the favour and applause even of good men, much more
to those of the world at large; not but that he is sensible of their worth as means and instruments
of usefulness and influence; and under the limitations and for the ends allowed in Scripture
(these it is needless to repeat) he is glad to possess, observant to acquire, and careful to
retain them. He considers them however, if we may again introduce the metaphor, like the precious
metals, as having rather an exchangeable than an intrinsic value, as desirable not simply in
their possession, but in their use. In this view, he holds himself to be responsible for that
share of them which he enjoys, and, to continue the figure, as bound not to let them lie by
him unemployed, this were hoarding; not to lavish them prodigally, this would be waste; not
imprudently to misapply them, this were folly and caprice: but as under an obligation to regard
them as conferred upon him that they might be brought into action, and as what therefore he
may by no means throw away, though ready, if it be required, to relinquish them with cheerfulness;
and never feeling himself at liberty, in consideration of the use he intends to make of them,
to acquire or retain them unlawfully. He holds it to be his bounden duty to seek diligently
for occasions of rendering them subservient to their true purposes; and when any such occasion
is found, to expend them cheerfully and liberally, but with discretion and frugality; being
no less prudent in determining the measure, than in selecting the objects of their application,
that they may go the farther by being thus managed with oeconomy.

Acting therefore on these principles, he will studiously and diligently use any degree of worldly
credit he may enjoy, in removing or lessening prejudices; in conciliating good-will, and thereby
making way for the less obstructed progress of truth; and in providing for its being entertained
with candour, or even with favour, by those who would bar all access against it in any rougher
or more homely form. He will make it his business to set on foot and forward benevolent and
useful schemes; and where they require united efforts, to obtain and preserve for them this
co-operation. He will endeavour to discountenance vice, to bring modest merit into notice;
to lend as it were his light to men of real worth, but of less creditable name, and perhaps
of less conciliating qualities and manners; that they may thus shine with a reflected lustre,
and be useful in their turn, when invested with their just estimation. But while by these and
various other means he strives to render his reputation, so long as he possesses it, subservient
to the great ends of advancing the cause of Religion and Virtue, and of promoting the happiness
and comfort of mankind, he will not transgress the rule of the Scripture precepts in order
to obtain, to cultivate, or to preserve it, resolutely disclaiming that dangerous sophistry
of "doing evil that good may come." Ready however to relinquish his reputation when required
so to do, he will not throw it away; and so far as he allowably may, he will cautiously avoid
occasions of diminishing it, instead of studiously seeking, or needlessly multiplying them,
as seems sometimes to have been the practice of worthy but imprudent men. There will be no
capricious humours, no selfish tempers, no moroseness, no discourtesy, no affected severity
of deportment, no peculiarity of language, no indolent neglect, or wanton breach, of the ordinary
forms or fashions of society. His reputation is a possession capable of uses too important
to be thus sported away; if sacrificed at all, it shall be sacrificed at the call of duty.
The world shall be constrained to allow him to be amiable, as well as respectable in other
parts of his character; though in what regards Religion, they may account him unreasonably
precise and strict. In this no less than in other particulars, he will endeavour to reduce
the enemies of Religion to adopt the confession of the accusers of the Jewish ruler, "we shall
not find any fault or occasion against this Daniel--except concerning the law of his God:"
and even there, if he give offence, it will only be where he dares not do otherwise; and if
he fall into dis-esteem or disgrace it shall not be chargeable to any conduct which is justly
dishonourable, or even to any unnecessary singularities on his part, but to the false standard
of estimation of a misjudging world. When his character is thus mistaken, or his conduct thus
misconstrued, he will not wrap himself up in a mysterious sullenness; but will be ready, where
he thinks any one will listen to him with patience and candour, to clear up what has been dubious,
to explain what has been imperfectly known, and "speaking the truth in love" to correct, if
it may be, the erroneous impressions which have been conceived of him. He may sometimes feel
it his duty publicly to vindicate his character from unjust reproach, and to repel the false
charges of his enemies; but he will carefully however watch against being led away by pride,
or being betrayed into some breach of truth or of Christian charity, when he is treading in
a path so dangerous. At such a time he will also guard, with more than ordinary circumspection,
against any undue solicitude about his worldly reputation for its own sake; and when he has
done what duty requires for its vindication, he will sit down with a peaceable and quiet mind,
and it will be matter of no very deep concern to him if his endeavours should have been ineffectual.
If good men in every age and nation have been often unjustly calumniated and disgraced, and
if, in such circumstances, even the darkness of paganism has been able contentedly to repose
itself on the consciousness of innocence, shall one who is cheered by the Christian's hope,
who is assured also, that a day will shortly come in which whatever is secret shall be made
manifest, and the mistaken judgments of men, perhaps even of good men, being corrected, that
"he shall then have praise of God;" shall such an one, I say, sink? shall he even bend or droop
under such a trial? They might be more excusable in over-valuing human reputation to whom all
beyond the grave was dark and cheerless. They also might be more easily pardoned for pursuing
with some degree of eagerness and solicitude that glory which might survive them, thus seeking
as it were to extend the narrow span of their earthly existence: but far different is our case,
to whom these clouds are rolled away, and "life and immortality brought to light by the Gospel."

He is required by his holy calling to be victorious over the world; and to this victory, the
conquest of the dread of its dis-esteem and dishonour is essentially and indispensably required.
He reflects on those holy men who "had trial of cruel mockings;" he remembers that our blessed
Saviour himself "was despised and rejected of men;" and what is he, that he should be exempted
from the common lot, or think it much to bear the scandal of his profession? If therefore he
is creditable and popular, he considers this, if the phrase may be pardoned, as something beyond
his bargain; and he watches himself, with double care, lest he should grow over-fond of what
he may be shortly called upon to relinquish. He meditates often on the probability of his being
involved in such circumstances, as may render it necessary for him to subject himself to disgrace
and obloquy; thus familiarizing himself with them betimes, and preparing himself, that when
the trying hour arrives they may not take him unawares.

But the cultivation of the desire of "that honour which cometh from God," he finds the most
effectual means of bringing his mind into a proper temper, in what regards the love of human
approbation. Christian! would thou indeed reduce this affection under just controul--sursum
corda! Rise on the wings of contemplation, until the praises and the censures of men die away
upon the ear, and the still small voice of conscience is no longer drowned by the din of this
nether world. Here the sight is apt to be occupied with earthly objects, and the hearing to
be engrossed with earthly sounds; but there thou shalt come within the view of that resplendent
and incorruptible crown, which is held forth to thy acceptance in the realms of light, and
thine ear shall be regaled with Heavenly melody! Here we dwell in a variable atmosphere--the
prospect is at one time darkened by the gloom of disgrace, and at another the eye is dazzled
by the gleamings of glory: but thou hast now ascended above this inconstant region; no storms
agitate, no clouds obscure the air, and the lightnings play, and the thunders roll beneath thee.

Thus, at chosen seasons, the Christian exercises himself; and when, from this elevated region
he descends into the plain below, and mixes in the bustle of life, he still retains the impressions
of his more retired hours.

But though the Christian be sometimes enabled thus to triumph over the inordinate love of human
applause, he does not therefore deem himself secure from its encroachments. On the contrary,
he is aware, so strong and active is its principle of vitality, that even where it seems extinct,
let but circumstances favour its revival, and it will spring forth again in renewed vigour.
And as his watch must thus during life know no termination, because the enemy will ever be
at hand; so it must be the more close and vigilant, because he is no where free from danger,
but is on every side open to attack.

He watches himself also on small as well as on great occasions: the latter indeed, in the case
of many persons, can hardly ever be expected to occur, whereas the former are continually presenting
themselves: and thus, whilst on the one hand they may be rendered highly useful in forming
and strengthening a just habit of mind in the particular in question; so, on the other, they
are the means most at hand for enabling us to discover our own real character. Let not this
be slightly passed over. If any one finds himself shrinking from disrepute or dis-esteem in
little instances; but apt to solace himself with the persuasion, that his spirits being fully
called forth to the encounter, he could boldly stand the brunt of sharper trials; let him be
slow to give entertainment to so beguiling a suggestion; and let him not forget that these
little instances, where no credit is to be got, and the vainest can find small room for self-complacency,
furnish perhaps the truest tests whether we are ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, and are willing,
on principles really pure, to bear reproach for the name of Jesus.

The Christian too is well aware that the excessive desire of human approbation is a passion
of so subtile a nature, that there is nothing into which it cannot penetrate; and from much
experience, learning to discover it where it would lurk unseen, and to detect it under its
more specious disguises, he finds, that elsewhere disallowed and excluded, it is apt to insinuate
itself into his very religion, where it especially delights to dwell, and obstinately maintains
its residence. Proud piety and ostentatious charity, and all the more open effects it there
produces, have been often condemned, and we may discover the tendencies to them in ourselves,
without difficulty. But where it appears not so large in bulk, and in shape so unambiguous,
let its operation be still suspected. Let not the Christian suffer himself to be deceived by
any external dissimilitudes between himself and the world around him, trusting perhaps to the
sincerity of the principle to which they originally owed their rise; but let him beware lest
through the insensible encroachments of the subtle usurper, his religion should at length have
"only a name to live," being gradually robbed of its vivifying principle; lest he should be
mainly preserved in his religious course by the dread of incurring the charge of levity, for
quitting a path on which he had deliberately entered. Or where, on a strict and impartial scrutiny
of his governing motives, he may fairly conclude this not to be the case, let him beware lest
he be influenced by this principle in particular parts of his character, and especially where
any external singularities are in question; closely scrutinizing his apparent motives, lest
he should be prompted to his more than ordinary religious observances, and be kept from participating
in the licentious pleasures of a dissipated age, not so much by a vigorous principle of internal
holiness, as by a fear of lessening himself in the good opinion of the stricter circle of his
associates, or of suffering even in the estimation of the world at large, by violating the
proprieties of his assumed character.

To those who, in the important particular which we have been so long discussing, wish to conform
themselves to the injunctions of the word of God, we must advise a laborious watchfulness,
a jealous guard, a close and frequent scrutiny of their own hearts, that they may not mistake
their real character, and too late find themselves to have been mistaken, as to what they had
conceived to be their governing motives. Above all, let them labour, with humble prayers for
the Divine assistance, to fix in themselves a deep, habitual, and practical sense of the excellence
of "that honour which cometh from God," and of the comparative worthlessness of all earthly
estimation and pre-eminence. In truth, unless the affections of the soul be thus predominantly
engaged on the side of heavenly in preference to that of human honour, though we may have relinquished
the pursuit of fame, we shall not have acquired that firm contexture of mind, which can bear
disgrace and shame, without yielding to the pressure. Between these two states there is a wide
interval, and he who, on a sober review of his conduct and motives, finds reason to believe
he has arrived at the one, must not therefore conclude he has reached the other. To the one,
a little natural moderation and quietness of temper may be sufficient to conduct us: but to
the other, we can only attain by much discipline and slow advances; and when we think we have
made great way, we shall often find reason to confess in the hour of trial, that we had greatly,
far too greatly, over-rated our progress.

When engaged too in the prosecution of this course, we must be aware of the snares which lie
in our way, and of the deceits to which we are liable: and we must be provided against these
impositions, by having obtained a full and distinct conception of the temper of mind with regard
to human favour, which is prescribed to us in Scripture; and by continually examining our hearts
and lives to ascertain how far they correspond with it. This will prevent our substituting
contemplation in the place of action, and giving ourselves too much up to those religious meditations
which were formerly recommended, in which we must not indulge to the neglect of the common
duties of life: this will prevent our mistaking the gratification of an indolent temper for
the Christian's disregard of fame; for, never let it be forgotten, we must deserve estimation,
though we may not possess it, forcing men of the world to acknowledge, that we do not want
their boasted spring of action to set us in motion; but that its place is better supplied to
us by another, which produces all the good of their's without its evil; thus demonstrating
the superiority of the principle which animates us, by the superior utility and excellence
of its effects. This principle, in order to be pure and genuine, though nerved with more than
mortal firmness, must be sweetened by love, and tempered with humility. The former of these
qualities will render us kind, friendly, and beneficent, preventing our being no longer on
the watch to promote the happiness or comfort of others, than whilst we are stimulated by the
desire of their applause; the produce of which passion, whatever may be vaunted of its effects
on social intercourse, is often nothing better than selfishness, but ill concealed under a
superficial covering of exterior courtesy.

Humility, again, reducing us in our own value, will moderate our claims on worldly estimation.
It will check our tendency to ostentation and display, prompting us rather to avoid, than to
attract notice. It will dispose us to sit down in quiet obscurity, though, judging ourselves
impartially, we believe ourselves better entitled to credit, than those on whom it is conferred;
closing the entrance against a proud, painful, and malignant passion, from which, under such
circumstances, we can otherwise be hardly free, the passion of "high disdain from sense of
injured merit."

Love and humility will concur in producing a frame of mind, not more distinct from an ardent
thirst of glory, than from that frigid disregard, or insolent contempt, or ostentatious renunciation
of human favour and distinction, which we have sometimes seen opposed to it. These latter qualities
may not infrequently be traced to a slothful, sensual, and selfish temper; to the consciousness
of being unequal to any great and generous attempts; to the disappointment of schemes of ambition
or of glory; to a little personal experience of the world's capricious and inconstant humour.
The renunciation in these cases, however sententious, is often far from sincere; and it is
even made not unfrequently, with a view to the attainment of that very distinction which it
affects to disclaim. In some other of these instances, the over-valuation and inordinate desire
of worldly credit, however disavowed, are abundantly evident, from the merit which is assumed
for relinquishing them; or from that sour and surly humour, which betrays a gloomy and a corroded
mind, galled and fretting under the irritating sense of the want of that which it most wishes
to possess.

But the Christian's is a far different temper: not a temper of sordid sensuality, or lazy apathy,
or dogmatizing pride, or disappointed ambition: more truly independent of worldly estimation
than philosophy with all her boasts, it forms a perfect contrast to Epicurean selfishness,
and to Stoical pride, and to Cynical brutality. It is a temper compounded of firmness, and
complacency, and peace, and love; and manifesting itself in acts of kindness and of courtesy;
a kindness, not pretended but genuine; a courtesy, not false and superficial, but cordial and
sincere. In the hour of popularity it is not intoxicated, or insolent; in the hour of unpopularity,
it is not desponding or morose; unshaken in constancy, unwearied in benevolence, firm without
roughness, and assiduous without servility.

Notwithstanding the great importance of the topic which we have been investigating, it will
require much indulgence on the part of the reader, to excuse the disproportionate length into
which the discussion has been almost insensibly drawn out: yet this, it is hoped, may not be
without its uses, if the writer have in any degree succeeded in his endeavour, to point out
the dangerous qualities and unchristian tendencies of a principle, of such general predominance
throughout the higher classes of society, and to suggest to the serious inquirer some practical
hints for its regulation and controul. Since the principle too, of which we have been treating,
is one of the most ordinary modifications of pride; the discussion may also serve in some degree
to supply a manifest deficiency, a deficiency to be ascribed to the fear of trespassing too
far on the reader's patience, in having but slightly touched on the allowed prevalence of that
master passion, and on the allowed neglect of its opposite, humility.

SECTION IV.

The generally prevailing Error, of substituting amiable Tempers and useful Lives in the place
of Religion, stated and confuted; with Hints to real Christians.

There is another practical error very generally prevalent, the effects of which are highly
injurious to the cause of Religion; and which in particular is often brought forward when,
upon Christian principles, any advocates for Christianity would press the practice of Christian
virtues. Before we proceed, therefore, to comment upon what remains to be discussed, of the
misconceptions and defects of the bulk of professed Christians, it may not be amiss to dispose
of this objection to our whole scheme.

The error in question is that of exaggerating the merit of certain amiable and useful qualities,
and of considering them as of themselves sufficient to compensate for the want of the supreme
love and fear of God.

It seems to be an opinion pretty generally prevalent, that kindness and sweetness of temper;
sympathizing, and benevolent, and generous affections; attention to what in the world's estimation
are the domestic, relative, and social duties; and above all a life of general activity and
usefulness, may well be allowed, in our imperfect state, to make up for the defect of what
in strict propriety of speech is termed Religion.

Many indeed will unreservedly declare, and more will hint the opinion, that "the difference
between the qualities above-mentioned and Religion, is rather a verbal or logical, than a real
and essential difference; for in truth what are they but Religion in substance if not in name?
Is it not the great end of Religion, and in particular the glory of Christianity, to extinguish
the malignant passions; to curb the violence, to controul the appetites, and to smooth the
asperities of man; to make us compassionate and kind, and forgiving one to another; to make
us good husbands, good fathers, good friends, and to render us active and useful in the discharge
of the relative, social, and civil duties? We do not deny that in the general mass of society,
and particularly in the lower orders, such conduct and tempers cannot be diffused and maintained
by any other medium than that of Religion. But if the end be effected, surely it is only unnecessary
refinement to dispute about the means. It is even to forget your own principles; and to refuse
its just place to solid practical virtue, while you assign too high a value to speculative
opinions."

Thus a fatal distinction is admitted between Morality and Religion: a great and desperate error,
of which it is the more necessary to take notice; because many who would condemn, as too strong,
the language in which this opinion is sometimes openly avowed, are yet more or less tinctured
with the notion itself; and under the habitual and almost unperceived influence of this beguiling
suggestion, are vainly solacing their imaginations, and repressing their well-grounded fears
concerning their own state; and are also quieting their just solicitude concerning the spiritual
condition of others, and soothing themselves in the neglect of friendly endeavours for their
improvement.

There can hardly be a stronger proof of the cursory and superficial views, with which men are
apt to satisfy themselves in religious concerns, than the prevalence of the opinion here in
question; the falsehood and sophistry of which must be acknowledged by any one who, admitting
the authority of Scripture, will examine it with ever so little seriousness and impartiality
of mind.

Appealing indeed to a less strict standard, it would not be difficult to shew that the moral
worth of these sweet and benevolent tempers, and of these useful lives, is apt to be greatly
over-rated. The former involuntarily gain upon our affections and disarm our severer judgments,
by their kindly, complying, and apparently disinterested nature; by their prompting men to
flatter instead of mortifying our pride, to sympathize either with our joys or our sorrows,
to abound in obliging attentions and offices of courtesy; by their obvious tendency to produce
and maintain harmony and comfort in social and domestic life. It is not however unworthy of
remark, that from the commendations which are so generally bestowed on these qualities, and
their rendering men universally acceptable and popular, there is many a false pretender to
them, who gains a credit for them which he by no means deserves; in whom they are no more than
the proprieties of his assumed character, or even a mask which is worn in public, only the
better to conceal an opposite temper. Would you see this man of courtesy and sweetness stripped
of his false covering, follow him unobserved into his family; and you shall behold, too plain
to be mistaken, selfishness and spleen harassing and vexing the wretched subjects of their
unmanly tyranny; as if being released at length from their confinement, they were making up
to themselves for the restraint which had been imposed on them in the world.

But where the benevolent qualities are genuine, they often deserve the name rather of amiable
instincts, than of moral virtues. In many cases, they imply no mental conflict, no previous
discipline: they are apt to evaporate in barren sensibilities, and transitory sympathies, and
indolent wishes, and unproductive declarations: they possess not that strength and energy of
character, which, in contempt of difficulties and dangers, produce alacrity in service, vigour
and perseverance in action. Destitute of proper firmness, they often encourage that vice and
folly which it is their especial duty to repress; and it is well if, from their soft complying
humour, they are not often drawn in to participate in what is wrong, as well as to connive
at it. Thus their possessors are frequently, in the eye of truth and reason, bad magistrates,
bad parents, bad friends; defective in those very qualities, which give to each of those several
relations its chief and appropriate value. And this, let it be also observed, is a defect which
might well bring into question that freedom from selfishness, which is so often claimed for
them; inasmuch as there is too great reason to fear, that it often arises in us chiefly from
indisposition to submit to a painful effort, though real good-will commands the sacrifice,
or from the fear of lessening the regard in which we are held, and the good opinion which is
entertained of us.

It should farther also be observed concerning these qualities, when they are not grounded and
rooted in religion, that they are of a sickly and short-lived nature, and want that hardy and
vigorous temperament, which is requisite for enabling them to bear without injury, or even
to survive, the rude shocks and the variable and churlish seasons, to which in such a world
as this they must ever be exposed. It is only a Christian love of which it is the character,
that "it suffereth long, and yet is kind;" "that it is not easily provoked, that it beareth
all things, and endureth all things." In the spring of youth indeed, the blood flows freely
through the veins; we are flushed with health and confidence; hope is young and ardent, our
desires are unsated, and whatever we see has the grace of novelty; we are the more disposed
to be good-natured because we are pleased; pleased, because universally well received. Wherever
we cast our eyes, we see some face of friendship, and love, and gratulation: All nature smiles
around us. Now the amiable tempers of which we have been speaking naturally spring up. The
soil suits, the climate favours them. They appear to shoot forth vigorously and blossom in
gay luxuriance. To the superficial eye, all is fair and flourishing; we anticipate the fruits
of Autumn, and promise ourselves an ample produce. But by and by the sun scorches, the frost
nips, the winds rise, the rains descend; our golden dreams are blasted, all our fond expectations
are no more. Our youthful efforts let it be supposed have been successful; and we rise to wealth
or eminence. A kind flexible temper and popular manners have produced in us, as they are too
apt, a youth of easy social dissipation, and unproductive idleness; and we are overtaken too
late by the consciousness of having wasted that time which cannot be recalled, and those opportunities
which we cannot now recover. We sink into disregard and obscurity when, there being a call
for qualities of more energy, indolent good nature must fall back. We are thrust out of notice
by accident or misfortunes. We are left behind by those with whom we started on equal terms,
and who, originally perhaps having less pretensions and fewer advantages, have greatly outstripped
us in the race of honour: and their having got before us is often the more galling, because
it appears to us, and perhaps with reason, to have been chiefly owing to a generous easy good-natured
humour on our part, which disposed us to allow them at first to pass by us without jealousy,
and led us to give place without a struggle to their more lofty pretensions. Thus we suffered
them quietly to occupy a station to which originally we had as fair a claim as they; but, this
station being once tamely surrendered, we have forfeited it for ever. Our aukward and vain
endeavours meanwhile to recover it, while they shew that we want self-knowledge and composure
in our riper years, as much as in our younger we had been destitute of exertion, serve only
to make our inferiority more manifest, and to bring our discontent into the fuller notice of
an ill-natured world, which however not unjustly condemns and ridicules our misplaced ambition.

It may be sufficient to have hinted at a few of the vicissitudes and changes of advancing life;
let the reader's own mind fill up the catalogue. Now the bosom is no longer cheerful and placid;
and if the countenance preserve its exterior character, this is no longer the honest expression
of the heart. Prosperity and luxury, gradually extinguishing sympathy, and puffing up with
pride, harden and debase the soul. In other instances, shame secretly clouds, and remorse begins
to sting, and suspicion to corrode, and jealousy and envy to embitter. Disappointed hopes,
unsuccessful competitions, and frustrated pursuits, sour and irritate the temper. A little
personal experience of the selfishness of mankind, damps our generous warmth and kind affections;
reproving the prompt sensibility and unsuspecting simplicity of our earlier years. Above all,
ingratitude sickens the heart, and chills and thickens the very life's-blood of benevolence:
till at length our youthful Nero, soft and susceptible, becomes a hard and cruel tyrant; and
our youthful Timon, the gay, the generous, the beneficent, is changed into a cold, sour, silent
misanthrope.

And as in the case of amiable tempers, so in that also of what are called useful lives, it
must be confessed that their intrinsic worth, arguing still merely on principles of reason,
is apt to be greatly over-rated. They are often the result of a disposition naturally bustling
and active, which delights in motion, and finds its labour more than repaid, either by the
very pleasure which it takes in its employments, or by the credit which it derives from them.
More than this; if it be granted that Religion tends in general to produce usefulness, particularly
in the lower orders, who compose a vast majority of every society; and therefore that these
irreligious men of useful lives are rather exceptions to the general rule; it must at least
be confessed that they are so far useless, or even positively mischievous, as they either neglect
to encourage or actually discourage that principle, which is the great operative spring of
usefulness in the bulk of mankind.

Thus it might well perhaps be questioned, estimating these men by their own standard, whether
the particular good in this case, is not more than counterbalanced by the general evil; still
more, if their conduct being brought to a strict account, they should be charged, as they justly
ought, with the loss of the good which, if they had manifestly and avowedly acted from a higher
principle, might have been produced, not only directly in themselves, but indirectly and remotely
in others, from the extended efficacy of a religious example. They may be compared, not unaptly,
to persons whom some peculiarity of constitution enables to set at defiance those established
rules of living, which must be observed by the world at large. These healthy debauchees, however
they may plead in their defence that they do themselves no injury, would probably, but for
their excesses, have both enjoyed their health better, and preserved it longer, as well as
have turned it to better account; and it may at least be urged against them, that they disparage
the laws of temperance, and fatally betray others into the breach of them, by affording an
instance of their being transgressed with impunity.

But were the merit of the qualities in question greater than it is, and though it were not
liable to the exceptions which have been alleged against it, yet could they be in no degree
admitted, as a compensation for the want of the supreme love and fear of God, and of a predominant
desire to promote his glory. The observance of one commandment, however clearly and forcibly
enjoined, cannot make up for the neglect of another, which is enjoined with equal clearness
and equal force. To allow this plea in the present instance, would be to permit men to abrogate
the first table of the law on condition of their obeying the second. But Religion suffers not
any such composition of duties. It is on the very self same miserable principle, that some
have thought to atone for a life of injustice and rapine by the strictness of their religious
observances. If the former class of men can plead the diligent discharge of their duties to
their fellow-creatures, the latter will urge that of their's to God. We easily see the falsehood
of the plea in the latter case; and it is only self deceit and partiality which prevent its
being equally visible in the former. Yet so it is; such is the unequal measure, if I may be
allowed the expression, which we deal out to God, and to each other. It would justly and universally
be thought false confidence in the religious thief or the religious adulterer, (to admit for
the sake of argument such a solecism in terms) to solace himself with the firm persuasion of
the Divine favour: but it will, to many, appear hard and precise, to deny this firm persuasion
of Divine approbation to the avowedly irreligious man of social and domestic usefulness.

Will it here be urged, that the writer is not doing justice to his opponent's argument; which
is not, that irreligious men of useful lives may be excused for neglecting their duties towards
God, in consideration of their exemplary discharge of their duties towards their fellow-creatures;
but that in performing the latter they perform the former virtually, and substantially, if
not in name?

Can then our opponent deny, that the Holy Scriptures are in nothing more full, frequent, strong,
and unequivocal, than in their injunctions on us supremely to love and fear God, and to worship
and serve him continually with humble and grateful hearts; habitually regarding him as our
Benefactor, and Sovereign, and Father, and abounding in sentiments of gratitude and loyalty,
and respectful affection? Can he deny that these positive precepts are rendered, if possible,
still more clear, and their authority still more binding, by illustrations and indirect confirmations
almost innumerable? And who then is that bold intruder into the counsels of infinite wisdom,
who, in palpable contempt of these precise commands, thus illustrated also and confirmed, will
dare to maintain that, knowing the intention with which they were primarily given and the ends
they were ultimately designed to produce, he may innocently neglect or violate their plain
obligations; on the plea that he conforms himself, though in a different manner, to this primary
intention, and produces, though by different means, these real and ultimate ends?

This mode of arguing is one, with which, to say nothing of its insolent prophaneness, the heart
of man, prone to deceive himself and partial in his own cause, is not fit to be trusted. Here
again, more cautious and jealous in the case of our worldly, than of our religious interests,
we readily discern the fallacy of this reasoning and protest against it, when it is attempted
to be introduced into the commerce of life. We see clearly that it would afford the means of
refining away by turns every moral obligation. The adulterer might allow himself with a good
conscience, to violate the bed of his unsuspecting friend, whenever he could assure himself
that his crime would escape detection; for then, where would be the evil and misery, the prevention
of which was the real ultimate object of the prohibition of adultery? The thief, in like manner,
and even the murderer, might find abundant room for the innocent exercise of their respective
occupations, arguing from the primary intention and real objects of the commands, by which
theft and murder were forbidden. There perhaps exists not a crime, to which this crooked morality
would not furnish some convenient opening.

But this miserable sophistry deserves not that we should spend so much time in the refutation
of it. To discern its fallaciousness, requires not acuteness of understanding, so much as a
little common honesty. "There is indeed no surer mark of a false and hollow heart, than a disposition
thus to quibble away the clear injunctions of duty and conscience[81]:" It is the wretched
resource of a disingenuous mind, endeavouring to escape from convictions before which it cannot
stand, and to evade obligations which it dares not disavow.

The arguments which have been adduced would surely be sufficient to disprove the extravagant
pretensions of the qualities under consideration, though those qualities were perfect in their
nature. But they are not perfect. On the contrary, they are radically defective and corrupt;
they are a body without a soul; they want the vital actuating principle, or rather they are
animated and actuated by a false one. Christianity, let me avail myself of the very words of
a friend[82] in maintaining her argument, is "a Religion of Motives." That only is Christian
practice, which flows from Christian principles; and none else will be admitted as such by
Him, who will be obeyed as well as worshipped "in spirit and in truth."

This also is a position of which, in our intercourse with our fellow-creatures, we clearly
discern the justice, and universally admit the force. Though we have received a benefit at
the hands of any one, we scarcely feel grateful, if we do not believe the intention towards
us to have been friendly. Have we served any one from motives of kindness, and is a return
of service made to us? We hardly feel ourselves worthily requited, except that return be dictated
by gratitude. We should think ourselves rather injured than obliged by it, if it were merely
prompted by a proud unwillingness to continue in our debt[83]. What husband, or what father,
not absolutely dead to every generous feeling, would be satisfied with a wife or a child; who,
though he could not charge them with any actual breach of their respective obligations, should
yet confessedly perform them from a cold sense of duty, in place of the quickening energies
of conjugal, and filial affection? What an insult would it be to such an one, to tell him gravely
that he had no reason to complain!

The unfairness, with which we suffer ourselves to reason in matters of Religion, is no where
more striking than in the instance before us. It were perhaps not unnatural to suppose that,
as we cannot see into each other's bosoms, and have no sure way of judging any one's internal
principles but by his external actions, it would have grown into an established rule, that
when the latter were unobjectionable, the former were not to be questioned; and on the other
hand, that in reference to a Being who searches the heart, our motives, rather than our external
actions, would be granted to be the just objects of inquiry. But we exactly reverse these natural
principles of reasoning. In the case of our fellow-creatures, the motive is that which we principally
inquire after and regard. But in the case of our Supreme Judge, from whom no secrets are hid,
we suffer ourselves to believe that internal principles may be dispensed with, if the external
action be performed!

Let us not however be supposed ready to concede, in contradiction to what has been formerly
contended, that where the true motive is wanting, the external actions themselves will not
generally betray the defect. Who is there that will not confess in the instance so lately put,
of a wife and a child who should discharge their respective obligations merely from a cold
sense of duty, that the inferiority of their actuating principle would not be confined to its
nature, but would be discoverable also in its effects? Who is there that does not feel that
these domestic services, thus robbed of their vital spirit, would be so debased and degraded
in our estimation, as to become not barely lifeless and uninteresting, but even distasteful
and loathsome? Who will deny that these would be performed in fuller measure, with more wakeful
and unwearied attention, as well as with more heart; where with the same sense of duty the
enlivening principle of affection should be also associated?

The enemies of Religion are sometimes apt to compare the irreligious man, of a temper naturally
sweet and amiable, with the religious man of natural roughness and severity; the irreligious
man of natural activity, with the religious man who is naturally indolent; and thence to draw
their inferences. But this mode of reasoning is surely unjust. If they would argue the question
fairly, they should make their comparisons between persons of similar natural qualities, and
not in one or two examples, but in a mass of instances. They would then be compelled to confess
the efficacy of Religion, in heightening the benevolence and increasing the usefulness of men:
and to admit that, granting the occasional but rare existence of genuine and persevering benevolence
of disposition and usefulness of life, where the religious principle is wanting; yet that experience
gives us reason to believe, that true Religion, while it would have implanted these qualities
in persons in whom before they had no place, would in general have given, to these very characters
in whom they do exist, additional force in the same direction. It would have rendered the amiable
more amiable, the useful more useful, with fewer inconsistencies, with less abatement.

Let true Christians meanwhile be ever mindful, that they are loudly called upon to make this
argument still more clear, these positions still less questionable. You are every where commanded
to be tender and sympathetic, diligent and useful; and it is the character of that "wisdom
from above," in which you are to be proficients, that it "is gentle and easy to be intreated,
full of mercy and good fruits." Could the efficacy of Christianity in softening the heart be
denied by those, who saw in the instance of the great Apostle of the Gentiles, that it was
able to transform a bigotted, furious, and cruel persecutor, into an almost unequalled example
of candour, and gentleness, and universal tenderness and love? Could its spirit of active beneficence
be denied by those, who saw its Divine Author so diligent and unwearied in his benevolent labours,
as to justify the compendious description which was given of him by a personal witness of his
exertions, that he "went about doing good?" Beat the world at its own best weapons. Let your
love be more affectionate, your mildness less open to irritation, your diligence more laborious,
your activity more wakeful and persevering. Consider sweetness of temper and activity of mind,
if they naturally belong to you, as talents of special worth and utility, for which you will
have to give account. Carefully watch against whatever might impair them, cherish them with
constant assiduity, keep them in continual exercise, and direct them to their noblest ends.
The latter of these qualities renders it less difficult, and therefore more incumbent on you,
to be ever abounding in the work of the Lord; and to be copious in the production of that species
of good fruit, of which mankind in general will be most ready to allow the excellence, because
they best understand its nature. In your instance, the solid substance of Christian practice
is easily susceptible of that high and beautiful polish, which may attract the attention, and
extort the admiration of a careless and undiscerning world, so slow to notice, and so backward
to acknowledge, intrinsic worth, when concealed under a less sightly exterior. Know then, and
value as ye ought, the honourable office which is especially devolved on you. Let it be your
acceptable service to recommend the discredited cause, and sustain the fainting interests of
Religion, to furnish to her friends matter of sound and obvious argument, and of honest triumph;
and if your best endeavours cannot conciliate, to refute at least, and confound her enemies.

If on the other hand, you are conscious that you are naturally rough and austere, that disappointments
have soured, or prosperity has elated you, or that habits of command have rendered you quick
in expression, and impatient of contradiction; or if, from whatever other cause, you have contracted
an unhappy peevishness of temper, or asperity of manners, or harshness and severity of language,
(remember that these defects are by no means incompatible with an aptness to perform services
of substantial kindness); if nature has been confirmed by habit till at length your soul seems
thoroughly tinctured with these evil dispositions, yet do not despair. Remember that the Divine
Agency is promised, "to take away the heart of stone, and give a heart of flesh," of which
it is the natural property to be tender and susceptible. Pray then earnestly and perseveringly,
that the blessed aid of Divine Grace may operate effectually on your behalf. Beware of acquiescing
in the evil tempers in question, under the idea that they are the ordinary imperfections of
the best of men; that they shew themselves only in little instances; that they are only occasional,
hasty, and transient effusions, when you are taken off your guard; the passing shade of your
mind, and not the settled colour. Beware of excusing or allowing them in yourself, under the
notion of warm zeal for the cause of Religion and virtue, which you perhaps own is now and
then apt to carry you into somewhat over-great severity of judgment, or sharpness in reproof.
Listen not to these, or any other such flattering excuses, which your own heart will be but
too ready to suggest to you. Scrutinize yourself rather with rigorous strictness; and where
there is so much room for self-deceit, call in the aid of some faithful friend, and unbosoming
yourself to him without concealment, ask his impartial and unreserved opinion of your behaviour
and condition. Our unwillingness to do this, often betrays to others, (not seldom it first
discovers to ourselves) that we entertain a secret distrust of our own character and conduct.
Instead also of extenuating to yourself the criminality of the vicious tempers under consideration,
strive to impress your mind deeply with a sense of it. For this end, often consider seriously,
that these rough and churlish tempers are a direct contrast to the "meekness and gentleness
of Christ;" and that Christians are strongly and repeatedly enjoined to copy after their great
Model in these particulars, and to be themselves patterns of "mercy and kindness, and humbleness
of mind, and meekness, and long suffering." They are to "put away all bitterness, and wrath,
and anger, and clamour, and evil speaking," not only "being ready to every good work, but being
gentle unto all men," "shewing all meekness unto all men," "forbearing, forgiving," tender
hearted. Remember the Apostle's declaration, that "if any man bridleth not his tongue, he only
seemeth to be religious, and deceiveth his own heart;" and that it is one of the characters
of that love, without which all pretensions to the name of Christian are but vain, that "it
doth not behave itself unseemly." Consider how much these acrimonious tempers must break in
upon the peace, and destroy the comfort, of those around you. Remember also that the honour
of your Christian profession is at stake, and be solicitous not to discredit it: justly dreading
lest you should disgust those whom you ought to conciliate; and by conveying an unfavourable
impression of your principles and character, should incur the guilt of putting an "offence
in your brother's way;" thereby "hindering the Gospel of Christ," the advancement of which
should be your daily and assiduous care.

Thus having come to the full knowledge of your disease, and to a just impression of its malignity,
strive against it with incessant watchfulness. Guard with the most jealous circumspection against
its breaking forth into act. Force yourself to abound in little offices of courtesy and kindness;
and you shall gradually experience in the performance of these a pleasure hitherto unknown,
and awaken in yourself the dormant principles of sensibility. But take not up with external
amendment; guard against a false shew of sweetness of disposition; and remember that the Christian
is not to be satisfied with the world's superficial courtliness of demeanor, but that his "Love
is to be without dissimulation." Examine carefully, whether the unchristian tempers, which
you would eradicate, are not maintained in vigour by selfishness and pride; and strive to subdue
them effectually, by extirpating the roots from which they derive their nutriment. Accustom
yourself to endeavour to look attentively upon a careless and inconsiderate world, which, while
it is in such imminent peril, is so ignorant of its danger. Dwell upon this affecting scene,
till it has excited your pity; and this pity, while it melts the mind to Christian love, shall
insensibly produce a temper of habitual sympathy and softness. By means like these, perseveringly
used in constant dependence on Divine aid, you may confidentially hope to make continual progress.
Among men of the world, a youth of softness and sweetness will often, as we formerly remarked,
harden into insensibility, and sharpen into moroseness. But it is the office of Christianity
to reverse this order. It is pleasing to witness this blessed renovation: to see, as life advances,
asperities gradually smoothing down, and roughnesses mellowing away: while the subject of this
happy change experiences within, increasing measures of the comfort which he diffuses around
him; and feeling the genial influences of that heavenly flame which can thus give life, and
warmth, and action, to what had been hitherto rigid and insensible, looks up with gratitude
to him who has shed abroad this principle of love in his heart;

    Miraturque novas frondes et non sua poma.

Let it not be thought that in the foregoing discussion, the amiable and useful qualities, where
they are not prompted and governed by a principle of religion, have been spoken of in too disparaging
terms. Nor would I be understood as unwilling to concede to those who are living in the exercise
of them, their proper tribute of commendation: Inest sua gratia. Of such persons it must be
said, in the language of scripture, "they have their reward." They have it in the inward complacency,
which a sweet temper seldom fails to inspire; in the comforts of the domestic or social circle;
in the pleasure which from the constitution of our nature accompanies pursuit and action. They
are always beloved in private, and generally respected in public life. But when devoid of Religion,
if the word of God be not a fable, "they cannot enter into the kingdom of Heaven." True practical
Christianity (never let it be forgotten) consists in devoting the heart and life to God; in
being supremely and habitually governed by a desire to know, and a disposition to fulfil his
will, and in endeavouring under the influence of these motives to "live to his glory." Where
these essential requisites are wanting, however amiable the character may be, however creditable
and respectable among men; yet as it possesses not the grand distinguishing essence, it must
not be complimented with the name, of Christianity. This however, when the external decorums
of Religion are not violated, must commonly be a matter between God and a man's own conscience;
and we ought never to forget how strongly we are enjoined to be candid and liberal in judging
of the motives of others, while we are strict in scrutinizing and severe in questioning our
own. And this strict scrutiny is no where more necessary, because there is no where more room
for the operation of self-deceit. We are all extremely prone to lend ourselves to the good
opinion which, however falsely, is entertained of us by others; and though we at first confusedly
suspect, or even indubitably know, that their esteem is unfounded, and their praises undeserved,
and that they would have thought and spoken of us very differently, if they had discerned our
secret motives, or had been accurately acquainted with all the circumstances of our conduct;
we gradually suffer ourselves to adopt their judgment of us, and at length feel that we are
in some sort injured or denied our due, when these false commendations are contradicted or
withheld. Without the most constant watchfulness, and the most close and impartial self-examination,
irreligious people of amiable tempers, and still more those of useful lives, from the general
popularity of their character, will be particularly liable to become the dupes of this propensity.
Nor is it they only who have here need to be on their guard: men of real religion will also
do well to watch against this delusion. There is however another danger to which these are
still more exposed, and against which it is the rather necessary to warn them, because of our
having insisted so strongly on their being bound to be diligent in the discharge of the active
duties of life. In their endeavours to fulfil this obligation, let them specially beware, lest
setting out on right principles, they insensibly lose them in the course of their progress;
lest engaging originally in the business and bustle of the world, from a sincere and earnest
desire to promote the glory of God, their minds should become so heated and absorbed in the
pursuit of their object, as that the true motive of action should either altogether cease to
be an habitual principle, or should at least lose much of its life and vigour; lest their thoughts
and affections being engrossed by temporal concerns, their sense of the reality of "unseen
things" should fade away, and they should lose their relish for the employments and offices
of Religion.

The Christian's path is beset with dangers--On the one hand, he justly dreads an inactive and
unprofitable life; on the other, he no less justly trembles for the loss of that spiritual-mindedness,
which is the very essence and power of his profession. This is not quite the place for the
full discussion of the difficult topic here in question: and if it were, the writer of these
sheets is too conscious of his own incompetencies, not to be desirous of asking rather than
of giving advice respecting it. Yet, as it is a matter which has often engaged his most serious
consideration, and has been the frequent subject of his anxious inquiry into the writings and
opinions of far better instructors, he will venture to deliver a few words on it, offering
them with unaffected diffidence.

Does then the Christian discover in himself, judging not from accidental and occasional feelings,
on which little stress is either way to be laid, but from the permanent and habitual temper
of his mind, a settled, and still more a growing, coldness and indisposition towards the considerations
and offices of Religion? And has he reason to apprehend that this coldness and indisposition
are owing to his being engaged too much or too earnestly in worldly business, or to his being
too keen in the pursuit of worldly objects? Let him carefully examine the state of his own
heart, and seriously and impartially survey the circumstances of his situation in life; humbly
praying to the Father of light and mercy, that he may be enabled to see his way clearly in
this difficult emergency. If he finds himself pursuing wealth, or dignity, or reputation, with
earnestness and solicitude; if these things engage many of his thoughts; if his mind naturally
and inadvertently runs out into contemplations of them; if success in these respects greatly
gladdens, and disappointments dispirit and distress his mind; he has but too plain grounds
for self-condemnation. "No man can serve two masters." The world is evidently in possession
of his heart, and it is no wonder that he finds himself dull, or rather dead, to the impression
and enjoyment of spiritual things.

But though the marks of predominant estimation and regard for earthly things be much less clear
and determinate; yet if the object which he is pursuing be one which, by its attainment, would
bring him a considerable accession of riches, station, or honour, let him soberly and fairly
question and examine whether the pursuit be warrantable? here also, asking the advice of some
judicious friend; his backwardness to do which, in instances like these, should justly lead
him, as was before remarked, to distrust the reasonableness of the schemes which he is prosecuting.
In such a case as this, we have good cause to distrust ourselves. Though the inward hope, that
we are chiefly prompted by a desire to promote the glory of our Maker, and the happiness of
our fellow-creatures, by increasing our means of usefulness, may suggest itself to allay, yet
let it not altogether remove, our suspicions. It is not improbable, that beneath this plausible
mask we conceal, more successfully perhaps from ourselves than from others, an inordinate attachment
to the pomps and transitory distinctions of this life; and as this attachment gains the ascendency,
it will ever be found, that our perception and feeling of the supreme excellence of heavenly
things will proportionably subside.

But when the consequences which would follow from the success of our worldly pursuits do not
render them so questionable, as in the case we have been just considering; yet, having such
good reason to believe that there is somewhere a flaw, could we but discover it, let us carefully
scrutinize the whole of our conduct, taking that word in its largest sense; in order to discover
whether we may not be living either in the breach or in the omission of some known duty, and
whether it may not therefore have pleased God to withdraw from us the influence of his Holy
Spirit; particularly inquiring, whether the duties of self-examination, of secret and public
prayer, the reading of the Holy Scriptures, and the other prescribed means of Grace, have not
been either wholly intermitted at their proper seasons, or at least been performed with precipitation
or distraction? And if we find reason to believe, that the allotment of time, which it would
be most for our spiritual improvement to assign to our religious offices, is often broken in
upon and curtailed; let us be extremely backward to admit excuses for such interruptions and
abridgments. It is more than probable, for many obvious reasons, that even our worldly affairs
themselves will not on the long run, go on the better for encroaching upon those hours, which
ought to be dedicated to the more immediate service of God, and to the cultivation of the inward
principles of Religion. Our hearts at least and our conduct will soon exhibit proofs of the
sad effects of this fatal negligence. They who in a crazy vessel navigate a sea wherein are
shoals and currents innumerable, if they would keep their course or reach their port in safety,
must carefully repair the smallest injuries, and often throw out their line and take their
observations. In the voyage of life also the Christian who would not make shipwreck of his
faith, while he is habitually watchful and provident, must often make it his express business
to look into his state, and ascertain his progress.

But to resume my subject; let us when engaged in this important scrutiny, impartially examine
ourselves whether the worldly objects which engross us, are all of them such as properly belong
to our profession, or station, or circumstances in life; which therefore we could not neglect
with a good conscience? If they be, let us consider whether they do not consume a larger share
of our time than they really require; and whether, by not trifling over our work, by deducting
somewhat which might be spared from our hours of relaxation, or by some other little management,
we might not fully satisfy their just claims, and yet have an increased overplus of leisure,
to be devoted to the offices of Religion.

But if we deliberately and honestly conclude that we ought not to give these worldly objects
less of our time, let us endeavour at least to give them less of our hearts: striving that
the settled frame of our desires and affections may be more spiritual; and that in the motley
intercourses of life we may constantly retain a more lively sense of the Divine presence, and
a stronger impression of the reality of unseen things; thus corresponding with the Scripture
description of true Christians, "walking by faith and not by sight, and having our conversation
in Heaven."

Above all, let us guard against the temptation, to which we shall certainly be exposed, of
lowering down our views to our state, instead of endeavouring to rise to the level of our views.
Let us rather determine to know the worst of our case, and strive to be suitably affected with
it; not forward to speak peace to ourselves, but patiently carrying about with us a deep conviction
of our backwardness and inaptitude to religious duties, and a just sense of our great weakness
and numerous infirmities. This cannot be an unbecoming temper, in those who are commanded to
"work out their salvation with fear and trembling." It prompts to constant and earnest prayer.
It produces that sobriety, and lowliness and tenderness of mind, that meekness of demeanor
and circumspection in conduct, which are such eminent characteristics of the true Christian.

Nor is it a state devoid of consolation--"O tarry thou the Lord's leisure, be strong and he
shall comfort thy heart."--"They that wait on the Lord, shall renew their strength."--"Blessed
are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted." These Divine assurances sooth and encourage
the Christian's disturbed and dejected mind, and insensibly diffuse a holy composure. The tint
may be solemn, nay even melancholy, but it is mild and grateful. The tumult of his soul has
subsided, and he is possessed by complacency, and hope, and love. If a sense of undeserved
kindness fill his eyes with tears, they are tears of reconciliation and joy: while a generous
ardour springing up within him sends him forth to his worldly labours "fervent in spirit;"
resolving through the Divine aid to be henceforth more diligent and exemplary in living to
the Glory of God, and longing meanwhile for that blessed time, when, "being freed from the
bondage of corruption," he shall be enabled to render to his Heavenly Benefactor more pure
and acceptable service.

After having discussed so much at large the whole question concerning amiable tempers in general,
it may be scarcely necessary to dwell upon that particular class of them which belongs to the
head of generous emotions, or of exquisite sensibility. To these almost all which has been
said above is strictly applicable; to which it may be added, that the persons in whom the latter
qualities most abound, are often far from conducing to the peace and comfort of their nearest
connections. These qualities indeed may be rendered highly useful instruments, when enlisted
into the service of Religion. But we ought to except against them the more strongly, when not
under her controul; because there is still greater danger than in the former case, that persons
in whom they abound, may be flattered into a false opinion of themselves by the excessive commendations
often paid to them by others, and by the beguiling complacencies of their own minds, which
are apt to be puffed up with a proud though secret consciousness of their own superior acuteness
and sensibility. But it is the less requisite to enlarge on this topic, because it has been
well discussed by many, who have unfolded the real nature of those fascinating qualities; who
have well remarked, that though shewy and apt to catch the eye, they are of a flimsy and perishable
fabric, not of that less gaudy but more substantial and durable texture, which, imparting permanent
warmth and comfort, will long preserve its more sober honours, and stand the wear and tear
of life, and the vicissitudes of seasons. It has been shewn, that these qualities often fail
us when most we want their aid; that their possessors can solace themselves with their imaginary
exertions in behalf of ideal misery, and yet shrink from the labours of active benevolence,
or retire with disgust from the homely forms of real poverty and wretchedness. In fine, the
superiority of true Christian charity and of plain practical beneficence has been ably vindicated;
and the school of Rousseau has been forced to yield to the school of Christ, when the question
has been concerning the best means of promoting the comfort of family life, or the temporal
well-being of society[84].

SECTION V.

Some other grand defects in the practical system of the Bulk of nominal Christians.

In the imperfect sketch which has been drawn of the Religion of the bulk of nominal Christians,
their fundamental error respecting the essential nature of Christianity has been discussed,
and traced into some of its many mischievous consequences. Several of their particular misconceptions
and allowed defects have also been pointed out and illustrated. It may not be improper to close
the survey by noticing some others, for the existence of which we may now appeal to almost
every part of the preceding delineation.

In the first place, then, there appears throughout, both in the principles and allowed conduct
of the bulk of nominal Christians, a most inadequate idea of the guilt and evil of sin. We
every where find reason to remark, that, as was formerly observed, Religion is suffered to
dwindle away into a mere matter of police. Hence the guilt of actions is estimated, not by
the proportion in which, according to Scripture, they are offensive to God, but by that in
which they are injurious to society. Murder, theft, fraud in all its shapes, and some species
of lying, are manifestly, and in an eminent degree, injurious to social happiness. How different
accordingly, in the moral scale, is the place they hold, from that which is assigned to idolatry,
to general irreligion, to swearing, drinking, fornication, lasciviousness, sensuality, excessive
dissipation; and in particular circumstances, to pride, wrath, malice, and revenge!

Indeed, several of the above-mentioned vices are held to be grossly criminal in the lower ranks,
because manifestly ruinous to their temporal interests: but in the higher, they are represented
as "losing half their evil by losing all their grossness," as flowing naturally from great
prosperity, from the excess of gaiety and good humour; and they are accordingly "regarded with
but a small degree of disapprobation, and censured very slightly or not at all[85]."--"Non
meus hic sermo est." These are the remarks of authors, who have surveyed the stage of human
life with more than ordinary observation; one of whom in particular cannot be suspected of
having been misled by religious prejudices, to form a judgment of the superior orders too unfavourable
and severe.

Will these positions however be denied? Will it be maintained that there is not the difference
already stated, in the moral estimation of these different classes of vices? Will it be said,
that the one class is indeed more generally restrained, and more severely punished by human
laws, because more properly cognizable by human judicatures, and more directly at war with
the well-being of society; but that when brought before the tribunal of internal opinion they
are condemned with equal rigour?

Facts may be denied, and charges laughed out of countenance: but where the general sentiment
and feeling of mankind are in question, our common language is often the clearest and most
impartial witness; and the conclusions thus furnished, are not to be parried by wit, or eluded
by sophistry. In the present case, our ordinary modes of speech furnish sufficient matter for
the determination of the argument; and abundantly prove our disposition to consider as matters
of small account, such sins as are not held to be injurious to the community. We invent for
them diminutive and qualifying terms, which, if not, as in the common uses of language[86],
to be admitted as signs of approbation and good will, must at least be confessed to be proofs
of our tendency to regard them with palliation and indulgence. Free-thinking, gallantry, jollity[87],
and a thousand similar phrases might be adduced as instances. But it is worthy of remark, that
no such soft and qualifying terms are in use, for expressing the smaller degrees of theft,
or fraud, or forgery, or any other of those offences, which are committed by men against their
fellow-creatures, and in the suppression of which we are interested by our regard to our temporal
concerns.

The charge which we are urging is indeed undeniable. In the case of any question of honour,
or of moral honesty, we are sagacious in discerning and inexorable in judging the offence.
No allowance is made for the suddenness of surprise, or the strength of temptations. One single
failure is presumed to imply the absence of the moral or honourable principle. The memory is
retentive on these occasions, and the man's character is blasted for life. Here, even the mere
suspicion of having once offended can scarcely be got over: "There is an aukward story about
that man, which must be explained before he and I can become acquainted." But in the case of
sins against God, there is no such watchful jealousy, none of this rigorous logic. A man may
go on in the frequent commission of known sins, yet no such inference is drawn respecting the
absence of the religious principle. On the contrary, we say of him, that "though his conduct
be a little incorrect, his principles are untouched;"--that he has a good heart: and such a
man may go quietly through life, with the titles of a mighty worthy creature, and a very good
Christian.

But in the Word of God actions are estimated by a far less accommodating standard. There we
read of no little sins. Much of our Saviour's sermon on the mount, which many of the class
we are condemning affect highly to admire, is expressly pointed against so dangerous a misconception.
There, no such distinction is made between the rich and the poor. No notices are to be traced
of one scale of morals for the higher, and of another for the lower classes of society. Nay,
the former are expressly guarded against any such vain imagination; and are distinctly warned,
that their condition in life is the more dangerous, because of the more abundant temptations
to which it exposes them. Idolatry, fornication, lasciviousness, drunkenness, revellings, inordinate
affection, are, by the apostle likewise classed with theft and murder, and with what we hold
in even still greater abomination; and concerning them all it is pronounced alike, that "they
which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God[88]."

In truth, the instance which we have lately specified, of the loose system of these nominal
Christians, betrays a fatal absence of the principle which is the very foundation of all Religion.
Their slight notions of the guilt and evil of sin discover an utter want of all suitable reverence
for the Divine Majesty. This principle is justly termed in Scripture, "the beginning of wisdom,"
and there is perhaps no one quality which it is so much the studious endeavour of the sacred
writers to impress upon the human heart[89].

Sin is considered in Scripture as rebellion against the sovereignty of God, and every different
act of it equally violates his law, and, if persevered in, disclaims his supremacy. To the
inconsiderate and the gay this doctrine may seem harsh, while, vainly fluttering in the sunshine
of worldly prosperity, they lull themselves into a fond security. Who then shall take upon
him to pronounce what might be the issue, if sin were suffered to pass unpunished in one corner
of this universal empire? Who shall say what confusion might be the consequence, what disorder
it might spread through the creation of God? Be this however as it may, the language of Scripture
is clear and decisive;--"The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the people that forget God."

It should be carefully observed too, that these awful denunciations of the future punishment
of sin derive additional weight from this consideration, that they are represented, not merely
as a judicial sentence which, without violence to the settled order of things, might be remitted
through the mere mercy of our Almighty Governor, but as arising out of the established course
of nature; as happening in the way of natural consequence, just as a cause is necessarily connected
with its effect; as resulting from certain connections and relations which rendered them suitable
and becoming. It is stated, that the kingdom of God and the kingdom of Satan are both set up
in the world, and that to the one or the other of these we must belong. They are become "the
children," and "the subjects of God." While on earth, they love his day, his service, his people;
they "speak good of his name;" they abound in his works. Even here they are in some degree
possessed of his image, by and by it shall be perfected; they shall awake up after his "likeness,"
and being "heirs of eternal life," they shall receive "an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled,
and that fadeth not away."

Is it possible that these declarations should not strike terror, or at least excite serious
and fearful apprehension in the lightest and most inconsiderate mind? But the imaginations
of men are fatally prone to suggest to them fallacious hopes in the very face of these positive
declarations. "We cannot persuade ourselves that God will in fact prove so severe." It was
the very delusion to which our first parents listened; "Ye shall not surely die."

Let me ask these rash men, who are thus disposed to trifle with their immortal interests, had
they lived in the antediluvian world, would they have conceived it possible that God would
then execute his predicted threatening? Yet the event took place at the appointed time; the
flood came and swept them all away: and this awful instance of the anger of God against sin
is related in the inspired writings for our instruction. Still more to rouse us to attention,
the record is impressed in indelible characters on the solid substance of the very globe we
inhabit; which thus, in every country upon earth, furnishes practical attestations to the truth
of the sacred writings, and to the actual accomplishment of their awful predictions. For myself
I must declare, that I never can read without awe the passage, in which our Saviour is speaking
of the state of the world at the time of this memorable event. The wickedness of men is represented
to have been great and prevalent; yet not as we are ready to conceive, such as to interrupt
the course, and shake the very frame of society. The general face of things was, perhaps, not
very different from that which is exhibited in many of the European nations. It was a selfish,
a luxurious, an irreligious, and an inconsiderate world. They were called, but they would not
hearken; they were warned, but they would not believe--"They did eat, they drank, they married
wives, they were given in marriage:" such is the account of one of the Evangelists; in that
of another it is stated nearly in the same words; "They were eating and drinking, marrying
and giving in marriage, and knew not until the flood came and swept them all away."

Again, we see throughout, in the system which we have been describing a most inadequate conception
of the difficulty of becoming true Christians; and an utter forgetfulness of its being the
great business of life to secure our admission into Heaven, and to prepare our hearts for its
service and enjoyments. The general notion appears to be, that, if born in a country of which
Christianity is the established religion, we are born Christians. We do not therefore look
out for positive evidence of our really being of that number; but putting the onus probandi,
(if it may be so expressed) on the wrong side, we conceive ourselves such of course, except
our title be disproved by positive evidence to the contrary. And we are so slow in giving ear
to what conscience urges to us on this side; so dexterous in justifying what is clearly wrong,
in palliating what we cannot justify, in magnifying the merit of what is fairly commendable,
in flattering ourselves that our habits of vice are only occasional acts, and in multiplying
our single acts into habits of virtue, that we must be bad indeed, to be compelled to give
a verdict against ourselves. Besides, having no suspicion of our state, we do not set ourselves
in earnest to the work of self-examination; but only receive in a confused and hasty way some
occasional notices of our danger, when sickness, or the loss of a friend, or the recent commission
of some act of vice of greater size than ordinary, has awakened in our consciences a more than
usual degree of sensibility.

Thus, by the generality, it is altogether forgotten, that the Christian has a great work to
execute; that of forming himself after the pattern of his Lord and Master, through the operation
of the Holy Spirit of God, which is promised to our fervent prayers and diligent endeavours.
Unconscious of the obstacles which impede, and of the enemies which resist their advancement;
they are naturally forgetful also of the ample provision which is in store, for enabling them
to surmount the one, and to conquer the other. The scriptural representations of the state
of the Christian on earth, by the images of "a race," and "a warfare;" of its being necessary
to rid himself of every encumbrance which might retard him in the one, and to furnish himself
with the whole armour of God for being victorious in the other, are, so far as these nominal
Christians are concerned, figures of no propriety or meaning. As little (as was formerly shewn)
have they, in correspondence with the Scripture descriptions of the feelings and language of
real Christians, any idea of acquiring a relish while on earth, for the worship and service
of Heaven. If the truth must be told, their notion is rather a confused idea of future gratification
in Heaven, in return for having put a force upon their inclinations, and endured so much religion
while on earth.

But all this is only nominal Christianity, which exhibits a more inadequate image of her real
excellencies, than the cold copyings, by some insipid pencil, convey of the force and grace
of Nature, or of Raphael. In the language of Scripture, Christianity is not a geographical,
but a moral term. It is not the being a native of a Christian country: it is a condition, a
state; the possession of a peculiar nature, with the qualities and properties which belong to it.

Farther than this, it is a state into which we are not born, but into which we must be translated;
a nature which we do not inherit, but into which we are to be created anew. To the undeserved
grace of God, which is promised on our use of the appointed means, we must be indebted for
the attainment of this nature; and, to acquire and make sure of it, is that great "work of
our salvation," which we are commanded to "work out with fear and trembling." We are every
where reminded, that this is a matter of labour and difficulty, requiring continual watchfulness,
and unceasing effort, and unwearied patience. Even to the very last, towards the close of a
long life consumed in active service, or in cheerful suffering, we find St. Paul himself declaring,
that he conceived bodily self-denial and mental discipline to be indispensably necessary to
his very safety. Christians, who are really worthy of the name, are represented as being "made
meet for the inheritance of the Saints in light;" as "waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ;" as "looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God." It is stated as
being enough to make them happy, that "Christ should receive them to himself;" and the songs
of the blessed spirits in Heaven are described to be the same, as those in which the servants
of God on earth pour forth their gratitude and adoration.

Conscious therefore of the indispensable necessity, and of the arduous nature of the service
in which he is engaged, the true Christian sets himself to the work with vigour, and prosecutes
it with diligence. His motto is that of the painter; "nullus dies sine linea." Fled as it were
from a country in which the plague is raging, he thinks it not enough just to pass the boundary
line, but would put out of doubt his escape beyond the limbs of infection. Prepared to meet
with difficulties, he is not discouraged when they occur; warned of his numerous adversaries,
he is not alarmed on their approach, or unprovided for encountering them. He knows that the
beginnings of every new course may be expected to be rough and painful; but he is assured that
the paths on which he is entering will ere long seem smoother, and become indeed "paths of
pleasantness and peace."

Now of the state of such an one the expressions of Pilgrim and Stranger are a lively description;
and all the other figures and images, by which Christians are represented in Scripture, have
in his case a determinate meaning and a just application. There is indeed none, by which the
Christian's state on earth is in the word of God more frequently imaged, or more happily illustrated,
than by that of a journey: and it may not be amiss to pause for a while in order to survey
it under that resemblance. The Christian is travelling on business through a strange country,
in which he is commanded to execute his work with diligence, and pursue his course homeward
with alacrity. The fruits which he sees by the way-side he gathers with caution; he drinks
of the streams with moderation; he is thankful when the sun shines, and his way is pleasant;
but if it be rough and rainy, he cares not much, he is but a traveller. He is prepared for
vicissitudes; he knows that he must expect to meet with them in the stormy and uncertain climate
of this world. But he is travelling to "a better country," a country of unclouded light and
undisturbed serenity. He finds also by experience, that when he has had the least of external
comforts, he has always been least disposed to loiter; and if for the time it be a little disagreeable,
he can solace himself with the idea of his being thereby forwarded in his course. In a less
unfavourable season, he looks round him with an eye of observation; he admires what is beautiful;
he examines what is curious; he receives with complacency the refreshments which are set before
him, and enjoys them with thankfulness. Nor does he churlishly refuse to associate with the
inhabitants of the country through which he is passing; nor, so far as he may, to speak their
language, and adopt their fashions. But he neither suffers pleasure, nor curiosity, nor society,
to take up too much of his time, and is still intent on transacting the business which he has
to execute, and on prosecuting the journey which he is ordered to pursue. He knows also that,
to the very end of life, his journey will be through a country in which he has many enemies;
that his way is beset with snares; that temptations throng around him, to seduce him from his
course or check his advancement in it; that the very air disposes to drowsiness, and that therefore
to the very last it will be requisite for him to be circumspect and collected. Often therefore
he examines whereabouts he is, how he has got forward, and whether or not he is travelling
in the right direction. Sometimes he seems to himself to make considerable progress, sometimes
he advances but slowly, too often he finds reason to fear that he has fallen backward in his
course. Now he is cheered with hope, and gladdened by success; now he is disquieted with doubts,
and damped by disappointments. Thus while in nominal Christians, Religion is a dull uniform
thing, and they have no conception of the desires and disappointments, the hopes and fears,
the joys and sorrows, which it is calculated to bring into exercise; in the true Christian
all is life and motion, and his great work calls forth alternately the various passions of
the soul. Let it not therefore be imagined that his is a state of unenlivened toil and hardship.
His very labours are "the labours of love;" if "he has need of patience," it is "the patience
of hope;" and he is cheered in his work by the constant assurance of present support, and of
final victory. Let it not be forgotten, that this is the very idea given us of happiness by
one of the ablest examiners of the human mind; "a constant employment for a desired end, with
the consciousness of continual progress." So true is the Scripture declaration, that "Godliness
has the promise of the life that now is, as well as of that which is to come."

Our review of the character of the bulk of nominal Christians has exhibited abundant proofs
of their allowed defectiveness in that great constituent of the true Christian character, the
love of God. Many instances, in proof of this assertion, have been incidentally pointed out,
and the charge is in itself so obvious, that it were superfluous to spend much time in endeavouring
to establish it. Put the question fairly to the test. Concerning the proper marks and evidences
of affection, there can be little dispute. Let the most candid investigator examine the character,
and conduct, and language of the persons of whom we have been speaking; and he will be compelled
to acknowledge, that so far as love towards the Supreme Being is in question, these marks and
evidences are no where to be met with. It is in itself a decisive evidence of a contrary feeling
in those nominal Christians, that they find no pleasure in the service and worship of God.
Their devotional acts resemble less the free-will offerings of a grateful heart, than that
constrained and reluctant homage, which is exacted by some hard master from his oppressed dependents,
and paid with cold sullenness, and slavish apprehension. It was the very charge brought by
God against his ungrateful people of old, that, while they called him Sovereign and Father,
they withheld from him the regards which severally belong to those respected and endearing
appellations. Thus we likewise think it enough to offer to the most excellent and amiable of
Beings, to our supreme and unwearied Benefactor, a dull, artificial, heartless gratitude, of
which we should be ashamed in the case of a fellow-creature, who had ever so small a claim
on our regard and thankfulness! This passion, operative and vigorous in its very nature, like
a master spring, would put and maintain in action all the complicated movements of the human
soul. Soon also would it terminate many practical questions concerning the allowableness of
certain compliances; questions which, with other similar difficulties, are often only the cold
offspring of a spirit of reluctant submission, and cannot stand the encounter of this trying
principle. If, for example, it were disputed, whether or not the law of God were so strict
as had been stated, in condemning the slightest infraction of its precepts; yet, when, from
the precise demands of justice, the appeal should be made to the more generous principle of
love, there would be at once an end of the discussion. Fear will deter from acknowledged crimes,
and self-interest will bribe to laborious services: but it is the peculiar glory, and the very
characteristic, of this more generous passion, to shew itself in ten thousand little and undefinable
acts of sedulous attention, which love alone can pay, and of which, when paid, love alone can
estimate the value. Love outruns the deductions of reasoning; it scorns the refuge of casuistry;
it requires not the slow process of laborious and undeniable proof that an action would be
injurious and offensive, or another beneficial or gratifying, to the object of affection. The
least hint, the slightest surmise, is sufficient to make it start from the former, and fly
with eagerness to the latter.

I am well aware that I am now about to tread on very tender ground; but it would be an improper
deference to the opinions and manners of the age altogether to avoid it. There has been much
argument concerning the lawfulness of theatrical amusements[92]. Let it be sufficient to remark,
that the controversy would be short indeed, if the question were to be tried by this criterion
of love to the Supreme Being. If there were any thing of that sensibility for the honour of
God, and of that zeal in his service, which we shew in behalf of our earthly friends, or of
our political connections, should we seek our pleasure in that place which the debauchee, inflamed
with wine, or bent on the gratification of other licentious appetites, finds most congenial
to his state and temper of mind? In that place, from the neighbourhood of which, (how justly
termed a school of morals might hence alone be inferred) decorum, and modesty, and regularity
retire, while riot and lewdness are invited to the spot, and invariably select it for their
chosen residence! where the sacred name of God is often prophaned! where sentiments are often
heard with delight, and motions and gestures often applauded, which would not be tolerated
in private company, but which may far exceed the utmost licence allowed in the social circle,
without at all transgressing the large bounds of theatrical decorum! where, when moral principles
are inculcated, they are not such as a Christian ought to cherish in his bosom, but such as
it must be his daily endeavour to extirpate; not those which Scripture warrants, but those
which it condemns as false and spurious, being founded in pride and ambition, and the over-valuation
of human favour! where surely, if a Christian should trust himself at all, it would be requisite
for him to prepare himself with a double portion of watchfulness and seriousness of mind, instead
of selecting it as the place in which he may throw off his guard, and unbend without danger!
The justness of this last remark, and the general tendency of theatrical amusements, is attested
by the same well instructed master in the science of human life, to whom we had before occasion
to refer. By him they are recommended as the most efficacious expedient for relaxing, among
any people, that "preciseness and austerity of morals," to use his own phrase, which, under
the name of holiness, it is the business of Scripture to inculcate and enforce. Nor is this
position merely theoretical. The experiment was tried, and tried successfully, in a city upon
the continent[93], in which it was wished to corrupt the simple morality of purer times.

Let us try the question by a parallel instance.

What judgment should we form of the warmth of that man's attachment to his Sovereign, who,
at seasons of recreation, should seek his pleasures in scenes as ill accordant with the principle
of loyalty, as those of which we have been speaking are with the genius of religion? If for
this purpose he were to select the place, and frequent the amusements, to which Democrats and
Jacobins[94] should love to resort for entertainment, and in which they should find themselves
so much at home, as invariably to select the spot for their abiding habitation; where dialogue,
and song, and the intelligible language of gesticulation, should be used to convey ideas and
sentiments, not perhaps palpably treasonable, or directly falling within the strict precision
of any legal limits, but yet palpably contrary to the spirit of monarchical government; which,
further, the highest authorities had recommended as sovereign specifics for cooling the warmth,
and enlarging the narrowness of an excessive loyalty! What opinion should we form of the delicacy
of that friendship, or of the fidelity of that love, which, in relation to their respective
objects, should exhibit the same contradictions?

In truth, the hard measure, if the phrase may be pardoned, which, as has been before remarked,
we give to God; and the very different way in which we allow ourselves to act, and speak, and
feel, where he is concerned, from that which we require, or even practise in the case of our
fellow-creatures, is in itself the most decisive proof that the principle of the love of God,
if not altogether extinct in us, is at least in the lowest possible degree of languor.

From examining the degree in which the bulk of nominal Christians are defective in the love
of God, if we proceed to inquire concerning the strength of their love towards their fellow-creatures,
the writer is well aware of its being generally held, that here at least they may rather challenge
praise than submit to censure. And the many beneficent institutions in which this country abounds,
probably above every other, whether in ancient or modern times, may be perhaps appealed to
in proof of the opinion. Much of what might have been otherwise urged in the discussion of
this topic, has been anticipated in the inquiry into the grounds of the extravagant estimation,
assigned to amiable tempers and useful lives, when unconnected with religious principle. What
was then stated may serve in many cases to lower, in the present instance, the loftiness of
the pretensions of these nominal Christians; and we shall hereafter have occasion to mention
another consideration, of which the effect must be, still further to reduce their claims. Meanwhile,
let it suffice to remark, that we must not rest satisfied with merely superficial appearances,
if we would form a fair estimate of the degree of purity and vigour, in which the principle
of good will towards men warms the bosoms of the generality of professed Christians in the
higher and more opulent classes in this country. In a highly polished state of society, for
instance, we do not expect to find moroseness; and in an age of great profusion, though we
may reflect with pleasure on those numerous charitable institutions, which are justly the honour
of Great Britain; we are not too hastily to infer a strong principle of internal benevolence,
from liberal contributions to the relief of indigence and misery. When these contributions
indeed are equally abundant in frugal times, or from individuals personally oeconomical, the
source from which they originate becomes less questionable. But a vigorous principle of philanthropy
must not be at once conceded, on the ground of liberal benefactions to the poor, in the case
of one who by his liberality in this respect is curtailed in no necessary, is abridged of no
luxury, is put to no trouble either of thought or of action; who, not to impute a desire of
being praised for his benevolence, is injured in no man's estimation; in whom also familiarity
with large sums has produced that freedom in the expenditure of money, which (thereby affording
a fresh illustration of the justice of the old proverb, "Familiarity breeds contempt,") it
never fails to operate, except in minds under the influence of a strong principle of avarice.

Our conclusion, perhaps, would be less favourable, but not less fair, if we were to try the
characters in question by those surer tests, which are stated by the Apostle to be less ambiguous
marks of a real spirit of philanthropy. The strength of every passion is to be estimated by
its victory over passions of an opposite nature. What judgment then shall we form of the force
of the benevolence of the age, when measured by this standard? How does it stand the shock,
when it comes into encounter with our pride, our vanity, our self-love, our self-interest,
our love of ease or of pleasure, with our ambition, with our desire of worldly estimation?
Does it make us self-denying, that we may be liberal in relieving others? Does it make us persevere
in doing good in spite of ingratitude; and only pity the ignorance, or prejudice, or malice,
which misrepresents our conduct, or misconstrues our motives? Does it make us forbear from
what we conceive may probably prove the occasion of harm to a fellow-creature; though the harm
should not seem naturally or even fairly to flow from our conduct, but to be the result only
of his own obstinacy or weakness? Are we slow to believe any thing to our neighbour's disadvantage?
and when we cannot but credit it, are we disposed rather to cover, and as far as we justly
can, to palliate, than to divulge or aggravate it? Suppose an opportunity to occur of performing
a kindness, to one who from pride or vanity should be loth to receive, or to be known to receive,
a favour from us; should we honestly endeavour, so far as we could with truth, to lessen in
his own mind and in that of others the merit of our good offices, and by so doing dispose him
to receive them with diminished reluctance, and a less painful weight of obligation? This end,
however, must be accomplished, if to be accomplished at all, by a simple and fair explanation
of the circumstances, which may render the action in no wise inconvenient to ourselves, though
highly beneficial to another; not by speeches of affected disparagement, which we might easily
foresee, and in fact do foresee, must produce the contrary effect.