Transcriber's Note:

      Archaic spellings of place names have been retained
      as they appear in the original.

      A table of contents has been provided for the reader's
      convenience.

   A Year of the War in Africa and Asia

   An "Insult" to War

   The Drive at Warsaw

   Naval Losses During the War

   Battles in the West

   France's "Eyewitness" Reports

   The Crown Prince in the Argonne

   Gallipoli's Shambles

   Italy's War on Austria

   The Task of Italy

   Two Devoted Nations

   Rumania, Serbia, Bulgaria, Greece

   Dr. Conybeare's Recantation

   The Case of Muenter

   Devotion to the Kaiser

   Scientists and the Military

   Hudson Maxim on Explosives

   Thor!

   "I am the Gravest Danger"

   THE EUROPEAN WAR AS SEEN BY CARTOONISTS

   The Belligerents' Munitions

   The Power of the Purse

   Cases Reserved

   New Recruiting in Britain

   American War Supplies

   Magazinists of the World on the War

   Germany's Long-Nourished Powers

   "To Avenge"

   The Pope, the Vatican, and Italy

   Are the Allies Winning?

   Selling Arms to the Allies

   War and Non-Resistance

   "Good Natured Germany"

   Italy's Defection

   Apologies for English Words

   Germanic Peace Terms

   France's Bill of Damages

   A French Rejoinder

   Dr. Von Bode's Polemic

   "Carnegie and German Peace"

   Russia's Supply of Warriors

   Austria and the Balkans

   Italy's Publications in War-Time

   Sweden and the Lusitania

   A Threatened Despotism of Spirit

   "Gott Mit Uns"

   On the Psychology of Neutrals

   Chlorine Warfare

   Rheims Cathedral

   The English Falsehood

   Calais or Suez?

   Note on the Principle of Nationality

   Singer of "La Marseillaise"

   Depression--Common-Sense and the Situation

   The War and Racial Progress

   The English Word, Thought, and Life

   Evviva L'Italia

   Who Died Content!

   "The Germans, Destroyers of Cathedrals"

   Chronology of the War

THE LUSITANIA CASE

The American Note to Berlin of July 21

Steps Leading Up to President Wilson's Rejection of Germany's Proposals

The German Admiralty on Feb. 4 proclaimed a war zone around Great Britain announcing that every
enemy merchant ship found therein would be destroyed "without its being always possible to
avert the dangers threatening the crews and passengers on that account."

The text of this proclamation was made known by Ambassador Gerard on Feb. 6. Four days later
the United States Government sent to Germany a note of protest which has come to be known as
the "strict accountability note."

The war-zone decree went into effect on Feb. 18. Two days later dispatches were cabled to Ambassador
Page at London and to Ambassador Gerard at Berlin suggesting that a modus vivendi be entered
into by England and Germany by which submarine warfare and sowing of mines at sea might be
abandoned if foodstuffs were allowed to reach the German civil population under American consular
inspection.

Germany replied to this on March 1, expressing her willingness to act favorably on the proposal.
The same day the British Government stated that because of the war-zone decree of the German
Government the British Government must take measures to prevent commodities of all kinds from
reaching or leaving Germany. On March 15 the British Government flatly refused the modus vivendi
suggestion.

On April 4 Count von Bernstorff, the German Ambassador at Washington, submitted a memorandum
to the United States Government regarding German-American trade and the exportation of arms.
Mr. Bryan replied to the memorandum on April 21, insisting that the United States was preserving
her strict status of neutrality according to the accepted laws of nations.

