The most attractive feature of these shows appears to be the orchideous or air-plants, as they
are popularly known. A greater number of persons are always collected round them than in any
other part of the tents; nor is this to be wondered at. Nothing can be more singular in appearance
or gorgeous in colouring. Their fragrance, too, is so delightful. Description can convey but
a faint idea of their great beauty and diversity of character. They seem to mimic the insect
world in the shapes of their blossoms; nor are the resemblances distant. Every one has heard
of the butterfly-plant: there is one on the stage now before us, and as the breeze gently waves
its slender stalks, each tipped with a vegetable butterfly, it becomes almost difficult to
imagine that we are not watching the movements of a real insect flitting among the plants.
Here is a spike of Gongora maculata, bearing no faint resemblance to a quantity of brown insects
with expanded wings collected round the stem. Close to it are some Brassias, mimicking with
equal fidelity insects of a paler colour, besides hundreds of others equally curious and beautiful.
Some bear their flowers in erect spikes, or loose heads; others have drooping racemes a yard
in length, as some of the dendrobiums. More have a slender flower-stalk making a graceful curve,
with the flowers placed on the uppermost side, as Pholænopsis amablis, which bears a profusion
of white blossoms closely resembling large moths with expanded wings. Here are some remarkable
plants we must not pass without noticing: they are equally attractive both by their beauty
and associations. They are two plants of Stanhopea tigrina, exhibited by Her Majesty, and a
fine specimen of Acincta Humboldtii, named in honour of the philosophic traveller. They are
all worthy of the associations they call up; they grow in open baskets, and the flowers are
produced from below, directly opposite the leaves. The ordinary law of flowering-plants is
reversed in them.

We pass on: everywhere gorgeous masses of flower are before us. Huge plants of Indian azaleas,
filling a space of several feet, literally covered with blossoms of every hue. Heaths from
the Cape, far outrivalling their brethren in their native wilds; rhododendrons from the Himalaya;
and cactuses from the plains of South America. In fact, here are collected examples of the
flora of almost every known country of the globe. But we must not be carried away by these
more showy plants to the exclusion of some very curious and interesting little things which
I see we are in danger of forgetting. Here, carefully covered by a bell-glass, is a fine specimen
of Dionæa muscipula, or Venus's fly-trap. Every reader of natural history is familiar with
its economy; but one does not often get a sight of it. By the side of it are many other curious
plants, covered with equal care. Anoectochillis argenteus, a little dwarf plant, with leaves
which, both in their beautiful lustre and peculiar markings, resemble a green lizard, must
serve for an example. Among other curiosities, is a small plant of one of the species of rhododendrons,
recently introduced by Dr Hooker from the mountains of Sikkim Himalaya; close to it are some
azaleas imported from the northern parts of the Celestial Empire. There are also some very
rare and valuable specimens of hardy trees, from the mountains of Patagonia. They belong to
the very extensive family of coniferous plants, and have been named respectively Fitz-Roya
Patagonica and Saxe-Gothea conspicua. There is also a remarkably handsome creeper, Hexacentras
mysorensis, having pendent racemes of large flowers in shape resembling the snap-dragon, and
of a rich orange and chocolate colour.

