MASTER FRANCIS RABELAIS

FIVE BOOKS OF THE LIVES, HEROIC DEEDS AND SAYINGS OF

GARGANTUA AND HIS SON PANTAGRUEL

Book III.

Translated into English by

Sir Thomas Urquhart of Cromarty

and

Peter Antony Motteux

The text of the first Two Books of Rabelais has been reprinted from the first edition (1653)
of Urquhart's translation.  Footnotes initialled 'M.' are drawn from the Maitland Club edition
(1838); other footnotes are by the translator.  Urquhart's translation of Book III. appeared
posthumously in 1693, with a new edition of Books I. and II., under Motteux's editorship. Motteux's
rendering of Books IV. and V. followed in 1708.  Occasionally (as the footnotes indicate) passages
omitted by Motteux have been restored from the 1738 copy edited by Ozell.

THE THIRD BOOK

Francois Rabelais to the Soul of the Deceased Queen of Navarre.

  Abstracted soul, ravished with ecstasies,
  Gone back, and now familiar in the skies,
  Thy former host, thy body, leaving quite,
  Which to obey thee always took delight,--
  Obsequious, ready,--now from motion free,
  Senseless, and as it were in apathy,
  Wouldst thou not issue forth for a short space,
  From that divine, eternal, heavenly place,
  To see the third part, in this earthy cell,
  Of the brave acts of good Pantagruel?

The Author's Prologue.

Good people, most illustrious drinkers, and you, thrice precious gouty gentlemen, did you ever
see Diogenes, and cynic philosopher?  If you have seen him, you then had your eyes in your
head, or I am very much out of my understanding and logical sense.  It is a gallant thing to
see the clearness of (wine, gold,) the sun.  I'll be judged by the blind born so renowned in
the sacred Scriptures, who, having at his choice to ask whatever he would from him who is Almighty,
and whose word in an instant is effectually performed, asked nothing else but that he might
see.  Item, you are not young, which is a competent quality for you to philosophate more than
physically in wine, not in vain, and henceforwards to be of the Bacchic Council; to the end
that, opining there, you may give your opinion faithfully of the substance, colour, excellent
odour, eminency, propriety, faculty, virtue, and effectual dignity of the said blessed and
desired liquor.

If you have not seen him, as I am easily induced to believe that you have not, at least you
have heard some talk of him.  For through the air, and the whole extent of this hemisphere
of the heavens, hath his report and fame, even until this present time, remained very memorable
and renowned. Then all of you are derived from the Phrygian blood, if I be not deceived. If
you have not so many crowns as Midas had, yet have you something, I know not what, of him,
which the Persians of old esteemed more of in all their otacusts, and which was more desired
by the Emperor Antonine, and gave occasion thereafter to the Basilico at Rohan to be surnamed
Goodly Ears. If you have not heard of him, I will presently tell you a story to make your wine
relish.  Drink then,--so, to the purpose.  Hearken now whilst I give you notice, to the end
that you may not, like infidels, be by your simplicity abused, that in his time he was a rare
philosopher and the cheerfullest of a thousand.  If he had some imperfection, so have you,
so have we; for there is nothing, but God, that is perfect.  Yet so it was, that by Alexander
the Great, although he had Aristotle for his instructor and domestic, was he held in such estimation,
that he wished, if he had not been Alexander, to have been Diogenes the Sinopian.

When Philip, King of Macedon, enterprised the siege and ruin of Corinth, the Corinthians having
received certain intelligence by their spies that he with a numerous army in battle-rank was
coming against them, were all of them, not without cause, most terribly afraid; and therefore
were not neglective of their duty in doing their best endeavours to put themselves in a fit
posture to resist his hostile approach and defend their own city.

Some from the fields brought into the fortified places their movables, bestial, corn, wine,
fruit, victuals, and other necessary provision.

Others did fortify and rampire their walls, set up little fortresses, bastions, squared ravelins,
digged trenches, cleansed countermines, fenced themselves with gabions, contrived platforms,
emptied casemates, barricaded the false brays, erected the cavaliers, repaired the counterscarps,
plastered the curtains, lengthened ravelins, stopped parapets, morticed barbacans, assured
the portcullises, fastened the herses, sarasinesques, and cataracts, placed their sentries,
and doubled their patrol.  Everyone did watch and ward, and not one was exempted from carrying
the basket. Some polished corslets, varnished backs and breasts, cleaned the headpieces, mail-coats,
brigandines, salads, helmets, morions, jacks, gushets, gorgets, hoguines, brassars, and cuissars,
corslets, haubergeons, shields, bucklers, targets, greaves, gauntlets, and spurs.  Others made
ready bows, slings, crossbows, pellets, catapults, migrains or fire-balls, firebrands, balists,
scorpions, and other such warlike engines expugnatory and destructive to the Hellepolides.
They sharpened and prepared spears, staves, pikes, brown bills, halberds, long hooks, lances,
zagayes, quarterstaves, eelspears, partisans, troutstaves, clubs, battle-axes, maces, darts,
dartlets, glaives, javelins, javelots, and truncheons.  They set edges upon scimitars, cutlasses,
badelairs, backswords, tucks, rapiers, bayonets, arrow-heads, dags, daggers, mandousians, poniards,
whinyards, knives, skeans, shables, chipping knives, and raillons.

Every man exercised his weapon, every man scoured off the rust from his natural hanger; nor
was there a woman amongst them, though never so reserved or old, who made not her harness to
be well furbished; as you know the Corinthian women of old were reputed very courageous combatants.

Diogenes seeing them all so warm at work, and himself not employed by the magistrates in any
business whatsoever, he did very seriously, for many days together, without speaking one word,
consider and contemplate the countenance of his fellow-citizens.

Then on a sudden, as if he had been roused up and inspired by a martial spirit, he girded his
cloak scarfwise about his left arm, tucked up his sleeves to the elbow, trussed himself like
a clown gathering apples, and, giving to one of his old acquaintance his wallet, books, and
opistographs, away went he out of town towards a little hill or promontory of Corinth called
(the) Cranie; and there on the strand, a pretty level place, did he roll his jolly tub, which
served him for a house to shelter him from the injuries of the weather:  there, I say, in a
great vehemency of spirit, did he turn it, veer it, wheel it, whirl it, frisk it, jumble it,
shuffle it, huddle it, tumble it, hurry it, jolt it, justle it, overthrow it, evert it, invert
it, subvert it, overturn it, beat it, thwack it, bump it, batter it, knock it, thrust it, push
it, jerk it, shock it, shake it, toss it, throw it, overthrow it, upside down, topsy-turvy,
arsiturvy, tread it, trample it, stamp it, tap it, ting it, ring it, tingle it, towl it, sound
it, resound it, stop it, shut it, unbung it, close it, unstopple it.  And then again in a mighty
bustle he bandied it, slubbered it, hacked it, whittled it, wayed it, darted it, hurled it,
staggered it, reeled it, swinged it, brangled it, tottered it, lifted it, heaved it, transformed
it, transfigured it, transposed it, transplaced it, reared it, raised it, hoised it, washed
it, dighted it, cleansed it, rinsed it, nailed it, settled it, fastened it, shackled it, fettered
it, levelled it, blocked it, tugged it, tewed it, carried it, bedashed it, bewrayed it, parched
it, mounted it, broached it, nicked it, notched it, bespattered it, decked it, adorned it,
trimmed it, garnished it, gauged it, furnished it, bored it, pierced it, trapped it, rumbled
it, slid it down the hill, and precipitated it from the very height of the Cranie; then from
the foot to the top (like another Sisyphus with his stone) bore it up again, and every way
so banged it and belaboured it that it was ten thousand to one he had not struck the bottom
of it out.

Which when one of his friends had seen, and asked him why he did so toil his body, perplex
his spirit, and torment his tub, the philosopher's answer was that, not being employed in any
other charge by the Republic, he thought it expedient to thunder and storm it so tempestuously
upon his tub, that amongst a people so fervently busy and earnest at work he alone might not
seem a loitering slug and lazy fellow.  To the same purpose may I say of myself,

  Though I be rid from fear,
  I am not void of care.

For, perceiving no account to be made of me towards the discharge of a trust of any great concernment,
and considering that through all the parts of this most noble kingdom of France, both on this
and on the other side of the mountains, everyone is most diligently exercised and busied, some
in the fortifying of their own native country for its defence, others in the repulsing of their
enemies by an offensive war; and all this with a policy so excellent and such admirable order,
so manifestly profitable for the future, whereby France shall have its frontiers most magnifically
enlarged, and the French assured of a long and well-grounded peace, that very little withholds
me from the opinion of good Heraclitus, which affirmeth war to be the father of all good things;
and therefore do I believe that war is in Latin called bellum, not by antiphrasis, as some
patchers of old rusty Latin would have us to think, because in war there is little beauty to
be seen, but absolutely and simply; for that in war appeareth all that is good and graceful,
and that by the wars is purged out all manner of wickedness and deformity.  For proof whereof
the wise and pacific Solomon could no better represent the unspeakable perfection of the divine
wisdom, than by comparing it to the due disposure and ranking of an army in battle array, well
provided and ordered.

Therefore, by reason of my weakness and inability, being reputed by my compatriots unfit for
the offensive part of warfare; and on the other side, being no way employed in matter of the
defensive, although it had been but to carry burthens, fill ditches, or break clods, either
whereof had been to me indifferent, I held it not a little disgraceful to be only an idle spectator
of so many valorous, eloquent, and warlike persons, who in the view and sight of all Europe
act this notable interlude or tragi-comedy, and not make some effort towards the performance
of this, nothing at all remains for me to be done ('And not exert myself, and contribute thereto
this nothing, my all, which remained for me to do.'--Ozell.).  In my opinion, little honour
is due to such as are mere lookers-on, liberal of their eyes, and of their crowns, and hide
their silver; scratching their head with one finger like grumbling puppies, gaping at the flies
like tithe calves; clapping down their ears like Arcadian asses at the melody of musicians,
who with their very countenances in the depth of silence express their consent to the prosopopoeia.
Having made this choice and election, it seemed to me that my exercise therein would be neither
unprofitable nor troublesome to any, whilst I should thus set a-going my Diogenical tub, which
is all that is left me safe from the shipwreck of my former misfortunes.

At this dingle dangle wagging of my tub, what would you have me to do?  By the Virgin that
tucks up her sleeve, I know not as yet.  Stay a little, till I suck up a draught of this bottle;
it is my true and only Helicon; it is my Caballine fountain; it is my sole enthusiasm.  Drinking
thus, I meditate, discourse, resolve, and conclude.  After that the epilogue is made, I laugh,
I write, I compose, and drink again.  Ennius drinking wrote, and writing drank.  Aeschylus,
if Plutarch in his Symposiacs merit any faith, drank composing, and drinking composed.  Homer
never wrote fasting, and Cato never wrote till after he had drunk.  These passages I have brought
before you to the end you may not say that I lived without the example of men well praised
and better prized.  It is good and fresh enough, even as if you would say it is entering upon
the second degree. God, the good God Sabaoth, that is to say, the God of armies, be praised
for it eternally!  If you after the same manner would take one great draught, or two little
ones, whilst you have your gown about you, I truly find no kind of inconveniency in it, provided
you send up to God for all some small scantling of thanks.

Since then my luck or destiny is such as you have heard--for it is not for everybody to go
to Corinth--I am fully resolved to be so little idle and unprofitable, that I will set myself
to serve the one and the other sort of people.  Amongst the diggers, pioneers, and rampire-builders,
I will do as did Neptune and Apollo at Troy under Laomedon, or as did Renault of Montauban
in his latter days:  I will serve the masons, I'll set on the pot to boil for the bricklayers;
and, whilst the minced meat is making ready at the sound of my small pipe, I'll measure the
muzzle of the musing dotards. Thus did Amphion with the melody of his harp found, build, and
finish the great and renowned city of Thebes.

For the use of the warriors I am about to broach of new my barrel to give them a taste (which
by two former volumes of mine, if by the deceitfulness and falsehood of printers they had not
been jumbled, marred, and spoiled, you would have very well relished), and draw unto them,
of the growth of our own trippery pastimes, a gallant third part of a gallon, and consequently
a jolly cheerful quart of Pantagruelic sentences, which you may lawfully call, if you please,
Diogenical:  and shall have me, seeing I cannot be their fellow-soldier, for their faithful
butler, refreshing and cheering, according to my little power, their return from the alarms
of the enemy; as also for an indefatigable extoller of their martial exploits and glorious
achievements.  I shall not fail therein, par lapathium acutum de dieu; if Mars fail not in
Lent, which the cunning lecher, I warrant you, will be loth to do.

I remember nevertheless to have read, that Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, one day, amongst the
many spoils and booties which by his victories he had acquired, presenting to the Egyptians,
in the open view of the people, a Bactrian camel all black, and a party-coloured slave, in
such sort as that the one half of his body was black and the other white, not in partition
of breadth by the diaphragma, as was that woman consecrated to the Indian Venus whom the Tyanean
philosopher did see between the river Hydaspes and Mount Caucasus, but in a perpendicular dimension
of altitude; which were things never before that seen in Egypt.  He expected by the show of
these novelties to win the love of the people.  But what happened thereupon?  At the production
of the camel they were all affrighted, and offended at the sight of the party-coloured man--some
scoffed at him as a detestable monster brought forth by the error of nature; in a word, of
the hope which he had to please these Egyptians, and by such means to increase the affection
which they naturally bore him, he was altogether frustrate and disappointed; understanding
fully by their deportments that they took more pleasure and delight in things that were proper,
handsome, and perfect, than in misshapen, monstrous, and ridiculous creatures.  Since which
time he had both the slave and the camel in such dislike, that very shortly thereafter, either
through negligence, or for want of ordinary sustenance, they did exchange their life with death.

This example putteth me in a suspense between hope and fear, misdoubting that, for the contentment
which I aim at, I will but reap what shall be most distasteful to me:  my cake will be dough,
and for my Venus I shall have but some deformed puppy:  instead of serving them, I shall but
vex them, and offend them whom I purpose to exhilarate; resembling in this dubious adventure
Euclion's cook, so renowned by Plautus in his Pot, and by Ausonius in his Griphon, and by divers
others; which cook, for having by his scraping discovered a treasure, had his hide well curried.
Put the case I get no anger by it, though formerly such things fell out, and the like may occur
again.  Yet, by Hercules! it will not.  So I perceive in them all one and the same specifical
form, and the like individual properties, which our ancestors called Pantagruelism; by virtue
whereof they will bear with anything that floweth from a good, free, and loyal heart.  I have
seen them ordinarily take goodwill in part of payment, and remain satisfied therewith when
one was not able to do better.  Having despatched this point, I return to my barrel.

Up, my lads, to this wine, spare it not!  Drink, boys, and trowl it off at full bowls!  If
you do not think it good, let it alone.  I am not like those officious and importunate sots,
who by force, outrage, and violence, constrain an easy good-natured fellow to whiffle, quaff,
carouse, and what is worse.  All honest tipplers, all honest gouty men, all such as are a-dry,
coming to this little barrel of mine, need not drink thereof if it please them not; but if
they have a mind to it, and that the wine prove agreeable to the tastes of their worshipful
worships, let them drink, frankly, freely, and boldly, without paying anything, and welcome.
This is my decree, my statute and ordinance.

And let none fear there shall be any want of wine, as at the marriage of Cana in Galilee; for
how much soever you shall draw forth at the faucet, so much shall I tun in at the bung.  Thus
shall the barrel remain inexhaustible; it hath a lively spring and perpetual current.  Such
was the beverage contained within the cup of Tantalus, which was figuratively represented amongst
the Brachman sages.  Such was in Iberia the mountain of salt so highly written of by Cato.
Such was the branch of gold consecrated to the subterranean goddess, which Virgil treats of
so sublimely.  It is a true cornucopia of merriment and raillery.  If at any time it seem to
you to be emptied to the very lees, yet shall it not for all that be drawn wholly dry.  Good
hope remains there at the bottom, as in Pandora's bottle; and not despair, as in the puncheon
of the Danaids.  Remark well what I have said, and what manner of people they be whom I do
invite; for, to the end that none be deceived, I, in imitation of Lucilius, who did protest
that he wrote only to his own Tarentines and Consentines, have not pierced this vessel for
any else but you honest men, who are drinkers of the first edition, and gouty blades of the
highest degree.  The great dorophages, bribe-mongers, have on their hands occupation enough,
and enough on the hooks for their venison.  There may they follow their prey; here is no garbage
for them.  You pettifoggers, garblers, and masters of chicanery, speak not to me, I beseech
you, in the name of, and for the reverence you bear to the four hips that engendered you and
to the quickening peg which at that time conjoined them.  As for hypocrites, much less; although
they were all of them unsound in body, pockified, scurvy, furnished with unquenchable thirst
and insatiable eating.  (And wherefore?)  Because indeed they are not of good but of evil,
and of that evil from which we daily pray to God to deliver us.  And albeit we see them sometimes
counterfeit devotion, yet never did old ape make pretty moppet.  Hence, mastiffs; dogs in a
doublet, get you behind; aloof, villains, out of my sunshine; curs, to the devil!  Do you jog
hither, wagging your tails, to pant at my wine, and bepiss my barrel?  Look, here is the cudgel
which Diogenes, in his last will, ordained to be set by him after his death, for beating away,
crushing the reins, and breaking the backs of these bustuary hobgoblins and Cerberian hellhounds.
Pack you hence, therefore, you hypocrites, to your sheep-dogs; get you gone, you dissemblers,
to the devil!  Hay!  What, are you there yet?  I renounce my part of Papimanie, if I snatch
you, Grr, Grrr, Grrrrrr.  Avaunt, avaunt!  Will you not be gone? May you never shit till you
be soundly lashed with stirrup leather, never piss but by the strapado, nor be otherwise warmed
than by the bastinado.

THE THIRD BOOK.

Chapter 3.I.

How Pantagruel transported a colony of Utopians into Dipsody.

Pantagruel, having wholly subdued the land of Dipsody, transported thereunto a colony of Utopians,
to the number of 9,876,543,210 men, besides the women and little children, artificers of all
trades, and professors of all sciences, to people, cultivate, and improve that country, which
otherwise was ill inhabited, and in the greatest part thereof but a mere desert and wilderness;
and did transport them (not) so much for the excessive multitude of men and women, which were
in Utopia multiplied, for number, like grasshoppers upon the face of the land.  You understand
well enough, nor is it needful further to explain it to you, that the Utopian men had so rank
and fruitful genitories, and that the Utopian women carried matrixes so ample, so gluttonous,
so tenaciously retentive, and so architectonically cellulated, that at the end of every ninth
month seven children at the least, what male what female, were brought forth by every married
woman, in imitation of the people of Israel in Egypt, if Anthony (Nicholas) de Lyra be to be
trusted.  Nor yet was this transplantation made so much for the fertility of the soil, the
wholesomeness of the air, or commodity of the country of Dipsody, as to retain that rebellious
people within the bounds of their duty and obedience, by this new transport of his ancient
and most faithful subjects, who, from all time out of mind, never knew, acknowledged, owned,
or served any other sovereign lord but him; and who likewise, from the very instant of their
birth, as soon as they were entered into this world, had, with the milk of their mothers and
nurses, sucked in the sweetness, humanity, and mildness of his government, to which they were
all of them so nourished and habituated, that there was nothing surer than that they would
sooner abandon their lives than swerve from this singular and primitive obedience naturally
due to their prince, whithersoever they should be dispersed or removed.

And not only should they, and their children successively descending from their blood, be such,
but also would keep and maintain in this same fealty and obsequious observance all the nations
lately annexed to his empire; which so truly came to pass that therein he was not disappointed
of his intent.  For if the Utopians were before their transplantation thither dutiful and faithful
subjects, the Dipsodes, after some few days conversing with them, were every whit as, if not
more, loyal than they; and that by virtue of I know not what natural fervency incident to all
human creatures at the beginning of any labour wherein they take delight:  solemnly attesting
the heavens and supreme intelligences of their being only sorry that no sooner unto their knowledge
had arrived the great renown of the good Pantagruel.

Remark therefore here, honest drinkers, that the manner of preserving and retaining countries
newly conquered in obedience is not, as hath been the erroneous opinion of some tyrannical
spirits to their own detriment and dishonour, to pillage, plunder, force, spoil, trouble, oppress,
vex, disquiet, ruin and destroy the people, ruling, governing and keeping them in awe with
rods of iron; and, in a word, eating and devouring them, after the fashion that Homer calls
an unjust and wicked king, Demoboron, that is to say, a devourer of his people.

I will not bring you to this purpose the testimony of ancient writers.  It shall suffice to
put you in mind of what your fathers have seen thereof, and yourselves too, if you be not very
babes.  Newborn, they must be given suck to, rocked in a cradle, and dandled.  Trees newly
planted must be supported, underpropped, strengthened and defended against all tempests, mischiefs,
injuries, and calamities.  And one lately saved from a long and dangerous sickness, and new
upon his recovery, must be forborn, spared, and cherished, in such sort that they may harbour
in their own breasts this opinion, that there is not in the world a king or a prince who does
not desire fewer enemies and more friends.  Thus Osiris, the great king of the Egyptians, conquered
almost the whole earth, not so much by force of arms as by easing the people of their troubles,
teaching them how to live well, and honestly giving them good laws, and using them with all
possible affability, courtesy, gentleness, and liberality.  Therefore was he by all men deservedly
entitled the Great King Euergetes, that is to say, Benefactor, which style he obtained by virtue
of the command of Jupiter to (one) Pamyla.

And in effect, Hesiod, in his Hierarchy, placed the good demons (call them angels if you will,
or geniuses,) as intercessors and mediators betwixt the gods and men, they being of a degree
inferior to the gods, but superior to men.  And for that through their hands the riches and
benefits we get from heaven are dealt to us, and that they are continually doing us good and
still protecting us from evil, he saith that they exercise the offices of kings; because to
do always good, and never ill, is an act most singularly royal.

Just such another was the emperor of the universe, Alexander the Macedonian.  After this manner
was Hercules sovereign possessor of the whole continent, relieving men from monstrous oppressions,
exactions, and tyrannies; governing them with discretion, maintaining them in equity and justice,
instructing them with seasonable policies and wholesome laws, convenient for and suitable to
the soil, climate, and disposition of the country, supplying what was wanting, abating what
was superfluous, and pardoning all that was past, with a sempiternal forgetfulness of all preceding
offences, as was the amnesty of the Athenians, when by the prowess, valour, and industry of
Thrasybulus the tyrants were exterminated; afterwards at Rome by Cicero exposed, and renewed
under the Emperor Aurelian.  These are the philtres, allurements, iynges, inveiglements, baits,
and enticements of love, by the means whereof that may be peaceably revived which was painfully
acquired.  Nor can a conqueror reign more happily, whether he be a monarch, emperor, king,
prince, or philosopher, than by making his justice to second his valour. His valour shows itself
in victory and conquest; his justice will appear in the goodwill and affection of the people,
when he maketh laws, publisheth ordinances, establisheth religion, and doth what is right to
everyone, as the noble poet Virgil writes of Octavian Augustus:

    Victorque volentes
  Per populos dat jura.

Therefore is it that Homer in his Iliads calleth a good prince and great king Kosmetora laon,
that is, the ornament of the people.

Such was the consideration of Numa Pompilius, the second king of the Romans, a just politician
and wise philosopher, when he ordained that to god Terminus, on the day of his festival called
Terminales, nothing should be sacrificed that had died; teaching us thereby that the bounds,
limits, and frontiers of kingdoms should be guarded, and preserved in peace, amity, and meekness,
without polluting our hands with blood and robbery.  Who doth otherwise, shall not only lose
what he hath gained, but also be loaded with this scandal and reproach, that he is an unjust
and wicked purchaser, and his acquests perish with him; Juxta illud, male parta, male dilabuntur.
And although during his whole lifetime he should have peaceable possession thereof, yet if
what hath been so acquired moulder away in the hands of his heirs, the same opprobry, scandal,
and imputation will be charged upon the defunct, and his memory remain accursed for his unjust
and unwarrantable conquest; Juxta illud, de male quaesitis vix gaudet tertius haeres.

Remark, likewise, gentlemen, you gouty feoffees, in this main point worthy of your observation,
how by these means Pantagruel of one angel made two, which was a contingency opposite to the
counsel of Charlemagne, who made two devils of one when he transplanted the Saxons into Flanders
and the Flemings into Saxony.  For, not being able to keep in such subjection the Saxons, whose
dominion he had joined to the empire, but that ever and anon they would break forth into open
rebellion if he should casually be drawn into Spain or other remote kingdoms, he caused them
to be brought unto his own country of Flanders, the inhabitants whereof did naturally obey
him, and transported the Hainaults and Flemings, his ancient loving subjects, into Saxony,
not mistrusting their loyalty now that they were transplanted into a strange land.  But it
happened that the Saxons persisted in their rebellion and primitive obstinacy, and the Flemings
dwelling in Saxony did imbibe the stubborn manners and conditions of the Saxons.

Chapter 3.II.

How Panurge was made Laird of Salmigondin in Dipsody, and did waste his revenue before it came in.

Whilst Pantagruel was giving order for the government of all Dipsody, he assigned to Panurge
the lairdship of Salmigondin, which was yearly worth 6,789,106,789 reals of certain rent, besides
the uncertain revenue of the locusts and periwinkles, amounting, one year with another, to
the value of 435,768, or 2,435,769 French crowns of Berry.  Sometimes it did amount to 1,230,554,321
seraphs, when it was a good year, and that locusts and periwinkles were in request; but that
was not every year.

Now his worship, the new laird, husbanded this his estate so providently well and prudently,
that in less than fourteen days he wasted and dilapidated all the certain and uncertain revenue
of his lairdship for three whole years.  Yet did not he properly dilapidate it, as you might
say, in founding of monasteries, building of churches, erecting of colleges, and setting up
of hospitals, or casting his bacon-flitches to the dogs; but spent it in a thousand little
banquets and jolly collations, keeping open house for all comers and goers; yea, to all good
fellows, young girls, and pretty wenches; felling timber, burning great logs for the sale of
the ashes, borrowing money beforehand, buying dear, selling cheap, and eating his corn, as
it were, whilst it was but grass.

Pantagruel, being advertised of this his lavishness, was in good sooth no way offended at the
matter, angry nor sorry; for I once told you, and again tell it you, that he was the best,
little, great goodman that ever girded a sword to his side.  He took all things in good part,
and interpreted every action to the best sense.  He never vexed nor disquieted himself with
the least pretence of dislike to anything, because he knew that he must have most grossly abandoned
the divine mansion of reason if he had permitted his mind to be never so little grieved, afflicted,
or altered at any occasion whatsoever.  For all the goods that the heaven covereth, and that
the earth containeth, in all their dimensions of height, depth, breadth, and length, are not
of so much worth as that we should for them disturb or disorder our affections, trouble or
perplex our senses or spirits.

He drew only Panurge aside, and then, making to him a sweet remonstrance and mild admonition,
very gently represented before him in strong arguments, that, if he should continue in such
an unthrifty course of living, and not become a better mesnagier, it would prove altogether
impossible for him, or at least hugely difficult, at any time to make him rich.  Rich! answered
Panurge; have you fixed your thoughts there?  Have you undertaken the task to enrich me in
this world?  Set your mind to live merrily, in the name of God and good folks; let no other
cark nor care be harboured within the sacrosanctified domicile of your celestial brain.  May
the calmness and tranquillity thereof be never incommodated with, or overshadowed by any frowning
clouds of sullen imaginations and displeasing annoyance!  For if you live joyful, merry, jocund,
and glad, I cannot be but rich enough.  Everybody cries up thrift, thrift, and good husbandry.
But many speak of Robin Hood that never shot in his bow, and talk of that virtue of mesnagery
who know not what belongs to it.  It is by me that they must be advised.  From me, therefore,
take this advertisement and information, that what is imputed to me for a vice hath been done
in imitation of the university and parliament of Paris, places in which is to be found the
true spring and source of the lively idea of Pantheology and all manner of justice.  Let him
be counted a heretic that doubteth thereof, and doth not firmly believe it.  Yet they in one
day eat up their bishop, or the revenue of the bishopric--is it not all one?--for a whole year,
yea, sometimes for two.  This is done on the day he makes his entry, and is installed.  Nor
is there any place for an excuse; for he cannot avoid it, unless he would be hooted at and
stoned for his parsimony.

It hath been also esteemed an act flowing from the habit of the four cardinal virtues.  Of
prudence in borrowing money beforehand; for none knows what may fall out.  Who is able to tell
if the world shall last yet three years?  But although it should continue longer, is there
any man so foolish as to have the confidence to promise himself three years?

  What fool so confident to say,
  That he shall live one other day?

Of commutative justice, in buying dear, I say, upon trust, and selling goods cheap, that is,
for ready money.  What says Cato in his Book of Husbandry to this purpose?  The father of a
family, says he, must be a perpetual seller; by which means it is impossible but that at last
he shall become rich, if he have of vendible ware enough still ready for sale.

Of distributive justice it doth partake, in giving entertainment to good --remark, good--and
gentle fellows, whom fortune had shipwrecked, like Ulysses, upon the rock of a hungry stomach
without provision of sustenance; and likewise to the good--remark, the good--and young wenches.
For, according to the sentence of Hippocrates, Youth is impatient of hunger, chiefly if it
be vigorous, lively, frolic, brisk, stirring, and bouncing. Which wanton lasses willingly and
heartily devote themselves to the pleasure of honest men; and are in so far both Platonic and
Ciceronian, that they do acknowledge their being born into this world not to be for themselves
alone, but that in their proper persons their acquaintance may claim one share, and their friends
another.

The virtue of fortitude appears therein by the cutting down and overthrowing of the great trees,
like a second Milo making havoc of the dark forest, which did serve only to furnish dens, caves,
and shelter to wolves, wild boars, and foxes, and afford receptacles, withdrawing corners,
and refuges to robbers, thieves, and murderers, lurking holes and skulking places for cutthroat
assassinators, secret obscure shops for coiners of false money, and safe retreats for heretics,
laying them even and level with the plain champaign fields and pleasant heathy ground, at the
sound of the hautboys and bagpipes playing reeks with the high and stately timber, and preparing
seats and benches for the eve of the dreadful day of judgment.

I gave thereby proof of my temperance in eating my corn whilst it was but grass, like a hermit
feeding upon salads and roots, that, so affranchising myself from the yoke of sensual appetites
to the utter disclaiming of their sovereignty, I might the better reserve somewhat in store
for the relief of the lame, blind, crippled, maimed, needy, poor, and wanting wretches.

In taking this course I save the expense of the weed-grubbers, who gain money,--of the reapers
in harvest-time, who drink lustily, and without water,--of gleaners, who will expect their
cakes and bannocks,--of threshers, who leave no garlic, scallions, leeks, nor onions in our
gardens, by the authority of Thestilis in Virgil,--and of the millers, who are generally thieves,--and
of the bakers, who are little better.  Is this small saving or frugality?  Besides the mischief
and damage of the field-mice, the decay of barns, and the destruction usually made by weasels
and other vermin.

Of corn in the blade you may make good green sauce of a light concoction and easy digestion,
which recreates the brain and exhilarates the animal spirits, rejoiceth the sight, openeth
the appetite, delighteth the taste, comforteth the heart, tickleth the tongue, cheereth the
countenance, striking a fresh and lively colour, strengthening the muscles, tempers the blood,
disburdens the midriff, refresheth the liver, disobstructs the spleen, easeth the kidneys,
suppleth the reins, quickens the joints of the back, cleanseth the urine-conduits, dilates
the spermatic vessels, shortens the cremasters, purgeth the bladder, puffeth up the genitories,
correcteth the prepuce, hardens the nut, and rectifies the member.  It will make you have a
current belly to trot, fart, dung, piss, sneeze, cough, spit, belch, spew, yawn, snuff, blow,
breathe, snort, sweat, and set taut your Robin, with a thousand other rare advantages.  I understand
you very well, says Pantagruel; you would thereby infer that those of a mean spirit and shallow
capacity have not the skill to spend much in a short time.  You are not the first in whose
conceit that heresy hath entered.  Nero maintained it, and above all mortals admired most his
uncle Caius Caligula, for having in a few days, by a most wonderfully pregnant invention, totally
spent all the goods and patrimony which Tiberius had left him.

But, instead of observing the sumptuous supper-curbing laws of the Romans --to wit, the Orchia,
the Fannia, the Didia, the Licinia, the Cornelia, the Lepidiana, the Antia, and of the Corinthians--by
the which they were inhibited, under pain of great punishment, not to spend more in one year
than their annual revenue did amount to, you have offered up the oblation of Protervia, which
was with the Romans such a sacrifice as the paschal lamb was amongst the Jews, wherein all
that was eatable was to be eaten, and the remainder to be thrown into the fire, without reserving
anything for the next day.  I may very justly say of you, as Cato did of Albidius, who after
that he had by a most extravagant expense wasted all the means and possessions he had to one
only house, he fairly set it on fire, that he might the better say, Consummatum est.  Even
just as since his time St. Thomas Aquinas did, when he had eaten up the whole lamprey, although
there was no necessity in it.

Chapter 3.III.

How Panurge praiseth the debtors and borrowers.

But, quoth Pantagruel, when will you be out of debt?  At the next ensuing term of the Greek
kalends, answered Panurge, when all the world shall be content, and that it be your fate to
become your own heir.  The Lord forbid that I should be out of debt, as if, indeed, I could
not be trusted.  Who leaves not some leaven over night, will hardly have paste the next morning.

Be still indebted to somebody or other, that there may be somebody always to pray for you,
that the giver of all good things may grant unto you a blessed, long, and prosperous life;
fearing, if fortune should deal crossly with you, that it might be his chance to come short
of being paid by you, he will always speak good of you in every company, ever and anon purchase
new creditors unto you; to the end, that through their means you may make a shift by borrowing
from Peter to pay Paul, and with other folk's earth fill up his ditch.  When of old, in the
region of the Gauls, by the institution of the Druids, the servants, slaves, and bondmen were
burnt quick at the funerals and obsequies of their lords and masters, had not they fear enough,
think you, that their lords and masters should die?  For, perforce, they were to die with them
for company.  Did not they incessantly send up their supplications to their great god Mercury,
as likewise unto Dis, the father of wealth, to lengthen out their days, and to preserve them
long in health?  Were not they very careful to entertain them well, punctually to look unto
them, and to attend them faithfully and circumspectly?  For by those means were they to live
together at least until the hour of death. Believe me, your creditors with a more fervent devotion
will beseech Almighty God to prolong your life, they being of nothing more afraid than that
you should die; for that they are more concerned for the sleeve than the arm, and love silver
better than their own lives.  As it evidently appeareth by the usurers of Landerousse, who
not long since hanged themselves because the price of the corn and wines was fallen by the
return of a gracious season.  To this Pantagruel answering nothing, Panurge went on in his
discourse, saying, Truly and in good sooth, sir, when I ponder my destiny aright, and think
well upon it, you put me shrewdly to my plunges, and have me at a bay in twitting me with the
reproach of my debts and creditors.  And yet did I, in this only respect and consideration
of being a debtor, esteem myself worshipful, reverend, and formidable.  For against the opinion
of most philosophers, that of nothing ariseth nothing, yet, without having bottomed on so much
as that which is called the First Matter, did I out of nothing become such (a) maker and creator,
that I have created--what?--a gay number of fair and jolly creditors.  Nay, creditors, I will
maintain it, even to the very fire itself exclusively, are fair and goodly creatures.  Who
lendeth nothing is an ugly and wicked creature, and an accursed imp of the infernal Old Nick.
And there is made--what?  Debts. A thing most precious and dainty, of great use and antiquity.
Debts, I say, surmounting the number of syllables which may result from the combinations of
all the consonants, with each of the vowels heretofore projected, reckoned, and calculated
by the noble Xenocrates.  To judge of the perfection of debtors by the numerosity of their
creditors is the readiest way for entering into the mysteries of practical arithmetic.

You can hardly imagine how glad I am, when every morning I perceive myself environed and surrounded
with brigades of creditors--humble, fawning, and full of their reverences.  And whilst I remark
that, as I look more favourably upon and give a cheerfuller countenance to one than to another,
the fellow thereupon buildeth a conceit that he shall be the first despatched and the foremost
in the date of payment, and he valueth my smiles at the rate of ready money, it seemeth unto
me that I then act and personate the god of the passion of Saumure, accompanied with his angels
and cherubims.

These are my flatterers, my soothers, my clawbacks, my smoothers, my parasites, my saluters,
my givers of good-morrows, and perpetual orators; which makes me verily think that the supremest
height of heroic virtue described by Hesiod consisteth in being a debtor, wherein I held the
first degree in my commencement.  Which dignity, though all human creatures seem to aim at
and aspire thereto, few nevertheless, because of the difficulties in the way and encumbrances
of hard passages, are able to reach it, as is easily perceivable by the ardent desire and vehement
longing harboured in the breast of everyone to be still creating more debts and new creditors.

Yet doth it not lie in the power of everyone to be a debtor.  To acquire creditors is not at
the disposure of each man's arbitrament.  You nevertheless would deprive me of this sublime
felicity.  You ask me when I will be out of debt.  Well, to go yet further on, and possibly
worse in your conceit, may Saint Bablin, the good saint, snatch me, if I have not all my lifetime
held debt to be as a union or conjunction of the heavens with the earth, and the whole cement
whereby the race of mankind is kept together; yea, of such virtue and efficacy that, I say,
the whole progeny of Adam would very suddenly perish without it.  Therefore, perhaps, I do
not think amiss, when I repute it to be the great soul of the universe, which, according to
the opinion of the Academics, vivifieth all manner of things.  In confirmation whereof, that
you may the better believe it to be so, represent unto yourself, without any prejudicacy of
spirit, in a clear and serene fancy, the idea and form of some other world than this; take,
if you please, and lay hold on the thirtieth of those which the philosopher Metrodorus did
enumerate, wherein it is to be supposed there is no debtor or creditor, that is to say, a world
without debts.

There amongst the planets will be no regular course, all will be in disorder.  Jupiter, reckoning
himself to be nothing indebted unto Saturn, will go near to detrude him out of his sphere,
and with the Homeric chain will be like to hang up the intelligences, gods, heavens, demons,
heroes, devils, earth and sea, together with the other elements.  Saturn, no doubt, combining
with Mars will reduce that so disturbed world into a chaos of confusion.

Mercury then would be no more subjected to the other planets; he would scorn to be any longer
their Camillus, as he was of old termed in the Etrurian tongue.  For it is to be imagined that
he is no way a debtor to them.

Venus will be no more venerable, because she shall have lent nothing.  The moon will remain
bloody and obscure.  For to what end should the sun impart unto her any of his light?  He owed
her nothing.  Nor yet will the sun shine upon the earth, nor the stars send down any good influence,
because the terrestrial globe hath desisted from sending up their wonted nourishment by vapours
and exhalations, wherewith Heraclitus said, the Stoics proved, Cicero maintained, they were
cherished and alimented.  There would likewise be in such a world no manner of symbolization,
alteration, nor transmutation amongst the elements; for the one will not esteem itself obliged
to the other, as having borrowed nothing at all from it.  Earth then will not become water,
water will not be changed into air, of air will be made no fire, and fire will afford no heat
unto the earth; the earth will produce nothing but monsters, Titans, giants; no rain will descend
upon it, nor light shine thereon; no wind will blow there, nor will there be in it any summer
or harvest.  Lucifer will break loose, and issuing forth of the depth of hell, accompanied
with his furies, fiends, and horned devils, will go about to unnestle and drive out of heaven
all the gods, as well of the greater as of the lesser nations.  Such a world without lending
will be no better than a dog-kennel, a place of contention and wrangling, more unruly and irregular
than that of the rector of Paris; a devil of an hurlyburly, and more disordered confusion than
that of the plagues of Douay.  Men will not then salute one another; it will be but lost labour
to expect aid or succour from any, or to cry fire, water, murder, for none will put to their
helping hand.  Why?  He lent no money, there is nothing due to him.  Nobody is concerned in
his burning, in his shipwreck, in his ruin, or in his death; and that because he hitherto had
lent nothing, and would never thereafter have lent anything.  In short, Faith, Hope, and Charity
would be quite banished from such a world--for men are born to relieve and assist one another;
and in their stead should succeed and be introduced Defiance, Disdain, and Rancour, with the
most execrable troop of all evils, all imprecations, and all miseries.  Whereupon you will
think, and that not amiss, that Pandora had there spilt her unlucky bottle.  Men unto men will
be wolves, hobthrushers, and goblins (as were Lycaon, Bellerophon, Nebuchodonosor), plunderers,
highway robbers, cutthroats, rapparees, murderers, poisoners, assassinators, lewd, wicked,
malevolent, pernicious haters, set against everybody, like to Ishmael, Metabus, or Timon the
Athenian, who for that cause was named Misanthropos, in such sort that it would prove much
more easy in nature to have fish entertained in the air and bullocks fed in the bottom of the
ocean, than to support or tolerate a rascally rabble of people that will not lend.  These fellows,
I vow, do I hate with a perfect hatred; and if, conform to the pattern of this grievous, peevish,
and perverse world which lendeth nothing, you figure and liken the little world, which is man,
you will find in him a terrible justling coil and clutter.  The head will not lend the sight
of his eyes to guide the feet and hands; the legs will refuse to bear up the body; the hands
will leave off working any more for the rest of the members; the heart will be weary of its
continual motion for the beating of the pulse, and will no longer lend his assistance; the
lungs will withdraw the use of their bellows; the liver will desist from convoying any more
blood through the veins for the good of the whole; the bladder will not be indebted to the
kidneys, so that the urine thereby will be totally stopped. The brains, in the interim, considering
this unnatural course, will fall into a raving dotage, and withhold all feeling from the sinews
and motion from the muscles.  Briefly, in such a world without order and array, owing nothing,
lending nothing, and borrowing nothing, you would see a more dangerous conspiration than that
which Aesop exposed in his Apologue.  Such a world will perish undoubtedly; and not only perish,
but perish very quickly.  Were it Aesculapius himself, his body would immediately rot, and
the chafing soul, full of indignation, take its flight to all the devils of hell after my money.

Chapter 3.IV.

Panurge continueth his discourse in the praise of borrowers and lenders.

On the contrary, be pleased to represent unto your fancy another world, wherein everyone lendeth
and everyone oweth, all are debtors and all creditors.  O how great will that harmony be, which
shall thereby result from the regular motions of the heavens!  Methinks I hear it every whit
as well as ever Plato did.  What sympathy will there be amongst the elements! O how delectable
then unto nature will be our own works and productions! Whilst Ceres appeareth laden with corn,
Bacchus with wines, Flora with flowers, Pomona with fruits, and Juno fair in a clear air, wholesome
and pleasant.  I lose myself in this high contemplation.

Then will among the race of mankind peace, love, benevolence, fidelity, tranquillity, rest,
banquets, feastings, joy, gladness, gold, silver, single money, chains, rings, with other ware
and chaffer of that nature be found to trot from hand to hand.  No suits at law, no wars, no
strife, debate, nor wrangling; none will be there a usurer, none will be there a pinch-penny,
a scrape-good wretch, or churlish hard-hearted refuser.  Good God!  Will not this be the golden
age in the reign of Saturn? the true idea of the Olympic regions, wherein all (other) virtues
cease, charity alone ruleth, governeth, domineereth, and triumpheth?  All will be fair and
goodly people there, all just and virtuous.

O happy world!  O people of that world most happy!  Yea, thrice and four times blessed is that
people!  I think in very deed that I am amongst them, and swear to you, by my good forsooth,
that if this glorious aforesaid world had a pope, abounding with cardinals, that so he might
have the association of a sacred college, in the space of very few years you should be sure
to see the saints much thicker in the roll, more numerous, wonder-working and mirific, more
services, more vows, more staves and wax-candles than are all those in the nine bishoprics
of Britany, St. Yves only excepted.  Consider, sir, I pray you, how the noble Patelin, having
a mind to deify and extol even to the third heavens the father of William Josseaulme, said
no more but this, And he did lend his goods to those who were desirous of them.

O the fine saying!  Now let our microcosm be fancied conform to this model in all its members;
lending, borrowing, and owing, that is to say, according to its own nature.  For nature hath
not to any other end created man, but to owe, borrow, and lend; no greater is the harmony amongst
the heavenly spheres than that which shall be found in its well-ordered policy. The intention
of the founder of this microcosm is, to have a soul therein to be entertained, which is lodged
there, as a guest with its host, (that) it may live there for a while.  Life consisteth in
blood, blood is the seat of the soul; therefore the chiefest work of the microcosm is, to be
making blood continually.

At this forge are exercised all the members of the body; none is exempted from labour, each
operates apart, and doth its proper office.  And such is their heirarchy, that perpetually
the one borrows from the other, the one lends the other, and the one is the other's debtor.
The stuff and matter convenient, which nature giveth to be turned into blood, is bread and
wine. All kind of nourishing victuals is understood to be comprehended in these two, and from
hence in the Gothish tongue is called companage.  To find out this meat and drink, to prepare
and boil it, the hands are put to work, the feet do walk and bear up the whole bulk of the
corporal mass; the eyes guide and conduct all; the appetite in the orifice of the stomach,
by means of (a) little sourish black humour, called melancholy, which is transmitted thereto
from the milt, giveth warning to shut in the food.  The tongue doth make the first essay, and
tastes it; the teeth do chew it, and the stomach doth receive, digest, and chylify it.  The
mesaraic veins suck out of it what is good and fit, leaving behind the excrements, which are,
through special conduits for that purpose, voided by an expulsive faculty. Thereafter it is
carried to the liver, where it being changed again, it by the virtue of that new transmutation
becomes blood.  What joy, conjecture you, will then be found amongst those officers when they
see this rivulet of gold, which is their sole restorative?  No greater is the joy of alchemists,
when after long travail, toil, and expense they see in their furnaces the transmutation.  Then
is it that every member doth prepare itself, and strive anew to purify and to refine this treasure.
The kidneys through the emulgent veins draw that aquosity from thence which you call urine,
and there send it away through the ureters to be slipped downwards; where, in a lower receptacle,
and proper for it, to wit, the bladder, it is kept, and stayeth there until an opportunity
to void it out in his due time.  The spleen draweth from the blood its terrestrial part, viz.,
the grounds, lees, or thick substance settled in the bottom thereof, which you term melancholy.
The bottle of the gall subtracts from thence all the superfluous choler; whence it is brought
to another shop or work-house to be yet better purified and fined, that is, the heart, which
by its agitation of diastolic and systolic motions so neatly subtilizeth and inflames it, that
in the right side ventricle it is brought to perfection, and through the veins is sent to all
the members.  Each parcel of the body draws it then unto itself, and after its own fashion
is cherished and alimented by it.  Feet, hands, thighs, arms, eyes, ears, back, breast, yea,
all; and then it is, that who before were lenders, now become debtors.  The heart doth in its
left side ventricle so thinnify the blood, that it thereby obtains the name of spiritual; which
being sent through the arteries to all the members of the body, serveth to warm and winnow
the other blood which runneth through the veins.  The lights never cease with its lappets and
bellows to cool and refresh it, in acknowledgment of which good the heart, through the arterial
vein, imparts unto it the choicest of its blood.  At last it is made so fine and subtle within
the rete mirabile, that thereafter those animal spirits are framed and composed of it, by means
whereof the imagination, discourse, judgment, resolution, deliberation, ratiocination, and
memory have their rise, actings, and operations.

Cops body, I sink, I drown, I perish, I wander astray, and quite fly out of myself when I enter
into the consideration of the profound abyss of this world, thus lending, thus owing.  Believe
me, it is a divine thing to lend,--to owe, an heroic virtue.  Yet is not this all.  This little
world thus lending, owing, and borrowing, is so good and charitable, that no sooner is the
above-specified alimentation finished, but that it forthwith projecteth, and hath already forecast,
how it shall lend to those who are not as yet born, and by that loan endeavour what it may
to eternize itself, and multiply in images like the pattern, that is, children.  To this end
every member doth of the choicest and most precious of its nourishment pare and cut off a portion,
then instantly despatcheth it downwards to that place where nature hath prepared for it very
fit vessels and receptacles, through which descending to the genitories by long ambages, circuits,
and flexuosities, it receiveth a competent form, and rooms apt enough both in man and woman
for the future conservation and perpetuating of human kind. All this is done by loans and debts
of the one unto the other; and hence have we this word, the debt of marriage.  Nature doth
reckon pain to the refuser, with a most grievous vexation to his members and an outrageous
fury amidst his senses.  But, on the other part, to the lender a set reward, accompanied with
pleasure, joy, solace, mirth, and merry glee.

Chapter 3.V.

How Pantagruel altogether abhorreth the debtors and borrowers.

I understand you very well, quoth Pantagruel, and take you to be very good at topics, and thoroughly
affectioned to your own cause.  But preach it up, and patrocinate it, prattle on it, and defend
it as much as you will, even from hence to the next Whitsuntide, if you please so to do, yet
in the end you will be astonished to find how you shall have gained no ground at all upon me,
nor persuaded me by your fair speeches and smooth talk to enter never so little into the thraldom
of debt.  You shall owe to none, saith the holy Apostle, anything save love, friendship, and
a mutual benevolence.

You serve me here, I confess, with fine graphides and diatyposes, descriptions and figures,
which truly please me very well.  But let me tell you, if you will represent unto your fancy
an impudent blustering bully and an importunate borrower, entering afresh and newly into a
town already advertised of his manners, you shall find that at his ingress the citizens will
be more hideously affrighted and amazed, and in a greater terror and fear, dread, and trembling,
than if the pest itself should step into it in the very same garb and accoutrement wherein
the Tyanean philosopher found it within the city of Ephesus.  And I am fully confirmed in the
opinion, that the Persians erred not when they said that the second vice was to lie, the first
being that of owing money.  For, in very truth, debts and lying are ordinarily joined together.
I will nevertheless not from hence infer that none must owe anything or lend anything.  For
who so rich can be that sometimes may not owe, or who can be so poor that sometimes may not lend?

Let the occasion, notwithstanding, in that case, as Plato very wisely sayeth and ordaineth
in his laws, be such that none be permitted to draw any water out of his neighbour's well until
first they by continual digging and delving into their own proper ground shall have hit upon
a kind of potter's earth, which is called ceramite, and there had found no source or drop of
water; for that sort of earth, by reason of its substance, which is fat, strong, firm, and
close, so retaineth its humidity, that it doth not easily evaporate it by any outward excursion
or evaporation.

In good sooth, it is a great shame to choose rather to be still borrowing in all places from
everyone, than to work and win.  Then only in my judgment should one lend, when the diligent,
toiling, and industrious person is no longer able by his labour to make any purchase unto himself,
or otherwise, when by mischance he hath suddenly fallen into an unexpected loss of his goods.

Howsoever, let us leave this discourse, and from henceforwards do not hang upon creditors,
nor tie yourself to them.  I make account for the time past to rid you freely of them, and
from their bondage to deliver you.  The least I should in this point, quoth Panurge, is to
thank you, though it be the most I can do.  And if gratitude and thanksgiving be to be estimated
and prized by the affection of the benefactor, that is to be done infinitely and sempiternally;
for the love which you bear me of your own accord and free grace, without any merit of mine,
goeth far beyond the reach of any price or value.  It transcends all weight, all number, all
measure; it is endless and everlasting; therefore, should I offer to commensurate and adjust
it, either to the size and proportion of your own noble and gracious deeds, or yet to the contentment
and delight of the obliged receivers, I would come off but very faintly and flaggingly.  You
have verily done me a great deal of good, and multiplied your favours on me more frequently
than was fitting to one of my condition.  You have been more bountiful towards me than I have
deserved, and your courtesies have by far surpassed the extent of my merits, I must needs confess
it.  But it is not, as you suppose, in the proposed matter.  For there it is not where I itch,
it is not there where it fretteth, hurts, or vexeth me; for, henceforth being quit and out
of debt, what countenance will I be able to keep?  You may imagine that it will become me very
ill for the first month, because I have never hitherto been brought up or accustomed to it.
I am very much afraid of it.  Furthermore, there shall not one hereafter, native of the country
of Salmigondy, but he shall level the shot towards my nose. All the back-cracking fellows of
the world, in discharging of their postern petarades, use commonly to say, Voila pour les quittes,
that is, For the quit.  My life will be of very short continuance, I do foresee it.  I recommend
to you the making of my epitaph; for I perceive I will die confected in the very stench of
farts.  If, at any time to come, by way of restorative to such good women as shall happen to
be troubled with the grievous pain of the wind-colic, the ordinary medicaments prove nothing
effectual, the mummy of all my befarted body will straight be as a present remedy appointed
by the physicians; whereof they, taking any small modicum, it will incontinently for their
ease afford them a rattle of bumshot, like a sal of muskets.

Therefore would I beseech you to leave me some few centuries of debts; as King Louis the Eleventh,
exempting from suits in law the Reverend Miles d'Illiers, Bishop of Chartres, was by the said
bishop most earnestly solicited to leave him some few for the exercise of his mind.  I had
rather give them all my revenue of the periwinkles, together with the other incomes of the
locusts, albeit I should not thereby have any parcel abated from off the principal sums which
I owe.  Let us waive this matter, quoth Pantagruel, I have told it you over again.

Chapter 3.VI.

Why new married men were privileged from going to the wars.

But, in the interim, asked Panurge, by what law was it constituted, ordained, and established,
that such as should plant a new vineyard, those that should build a new house, and the new
married men, should be exempted and discharged from the duty of warfare for the first year?
By the law, answered Pantagruel, of Moses.  Why, replied Panurge, the lately married? As for
the vine-planters, I am now too old to reflect on them; my condition, at this present, induceth
me to remain satisfied with the care of vintage, finishing and turning the grapes into wine.
Nor are these pretty new builders of dead stones written or pricked down in my Book of Life.
It is all with live stones that I set up and erect the fabrics of my architecture, to wit,
men.  It was, according to my opinion, quoth Pantagruel, to the end, first, that the fresh
married folks should for the first year reap a full and complete fruition of their pleasures
in their mutual exercise of the act of love, in such sort, that in waiting more at leisure
on the production of posterity and propagating of their progeny, they might the better increase
their race and make provision of new heirs. That if, in the years thereafter, the men should,
upon their undergoing of some military adventure, happen to be killed, their names and coats-of-arms
might continue with their children in the same families.  And next, that, the wives thereby
coming to know whether they were barren or fruitful--for one year's trial, in regard of the
maturity of age wherein of old they married, was held sufficient for the discovery--they might
pitch the more suitably, in case of their first husband's decease, upon a second match. The
fertile women to be wedded to those who desire to multiply their issue; and the sterile ones
to such other mates, as, misregarding the storing of their own lineage, choose them only for
their virtues, learning, genteel behaviour, domestic consolation, management of the house,
and matrimonial conveniences and comforts, and such like.  The preachers of Varennes, saith
Panurge, detest and abhor the second marriages, as altogether foolish and dishonest.

Foolish and dishonest? quoth Pantagruel.  A plague take such preachers! Yea but, quoth Panurge,
the like mischief also befall the Friar Charmer, who, in a full auditory making a sermon at
Pereilly, and therein abominating the reiteration of marriage and the entering again in the
bonds of a nuptial tie, did swear and heartily give himself to the swiftest devil in hell,
if he had not rather choose, and would much more willingly undertake the unmaidening or depucelating
of a hundred virgins, than the simple drudgery of one widow.  Truly I find your reason in that
point right good and strongly grounded.

But what would you think, if the cause why this exemption or immunity was granted had no other
foundation but that, during the whole space of the said first year, they so lustily bobbed
it with their female consorts, as both reason and equity require they should do, that they
had drained and evacuated their spermatic vessels; and were become thereby altogether feeble,
weak, emasculated, drooping, and flaggingly pithless; yea, in such sort that they in the day
of battle, like ducks which plunge over head and ears, would sooner hide themselves behind
the baggage, than, in the company of valiant fighters and daring military combatants, appear
where stern Bellona deals her blows and moves a bustling noise of thwacks and thumps? Nor is
it to be thought that, under the standard of Mars, they will so much as once strike a fair
stroke, because their most considerable knocks have been already jerked and whirrited within
the curtains of his sweetheart Venus.

In confirmation whereof, amongst other relics and monuments of antiquity, we now as yet often
see, that in all great houses, after the expiring of some few days, these young married blades
are readily sent away to visit their uncles, that in the absence of their wives reposing themselves
a little they may recover their decayed strength by the recruit of a fresh supply, the more
vigorous to return again and face about to renew the duelling shock and conflict of an amorous
dalliance, albeit for the greater part they have neither uncle nor aunt to go to.

Just so did the King Crackart, after the battle of the Cornets, not cashier us (speaking properly),
I mean me and the Quail-caller, but for our refreshment remanded us to our houses; and he is
as yet seeking after his own.  My grandfather's godmother was wont to say to me when I was a boy,--

  Patenostres et oraisons
  Sont pour ceux-la, qui les retiennent.
  Ung fiffre en fenaisons
  Est plus fort que deux qui en viennent.

  Not orisons nor patenotres
  Shall ever disorder my brain.
  One cadet, to the field as he flutters,
  Is worth two, when they end the campaign.

That which prompteth me to that opinion is, that the vine-planters did seldom eat of the grapes,
or drink of the wine of their labour, till the first year was wholly elapsed.  During all which
time also the builders did hardly inhabit their new-structured dwelling-places, for fear of
dying suffocated through want of respiration; as Galen hath most learnedly remarked, in the
second book of the Difficulty of Breathing.  Under favour, sir, I have not asked this question
without cause causing and reason truly very ratiocinant.  Be not offended, I pray you.

Chapter 3.VII.

How Panurge had a flea in his ear, and forbore to wear any longer his magnificent codpiece.

Panurge, the day thereafter, caused pierce his right ear after the Jewish fashion, and thereto
clasped a little gold ring, of a ferny-like kind of workmanship, in the beazil or collet whereof
was set and enchased a flea; and, to the end you may be rid of all doubts, you are to know
that the flea was black.  O, what a brave thing it is, in every case and circumstance of a
matter, to be thoroughly well informed!  The sum of the expense hereof, being cast up, brought
in, and laid down upon his council-board carpet, was found to amount to no more quarterly than
the charge of the nuptials of a Hircanian tigress; even, as you would say, 600,000 maravedis.
At these vast costs and excessive disbursements, as soon as he perceived himself to be out
of debt, he fretted much; and afterwards, as tyrants and lawyers use to do, he nourished and
fed her with the sweat and blood of his subjects and clients.

He then took four French ells of a coarse brown russet cloth, and therein apparelling himself,
as with a long, plain-seamed, and single-stitched gown, left off the wearing of his breeches,
and tied a pair of spectacles to his cap.  In this equipage did he present himself before Pantagruel;
to whom this disguise appeared the more strange, that he did not, as before, see that goodly,
fair, and stately codpiece, which was the sole anchor of hope wherein he was wonted to rely,
and last refuge he had midst all the waves and boisterous billows which a stormy cloud in a
cross fortune would raise up against him.  Honest Pantagruel, not understanding the mystery,
asked him, by way of interrogatory, what he did intend to personate in that new-fangled prosopopoeia.
I have, answered Panurge, a flea in mine ear, and have a mind to marry.  In a good time, quoth
Pantagruel, you have told me joyful tidings.  Yet would not I hold a red-hot iron in my hand
for all the gladness of them.  But it is not the fashion of lovers to be accoutred in such
dangling vestments, so as to have their shirts flagging down over their knees, without breeches,
and with a long robe of a dark brown mingled hue, which is a colour never used in Talarian
garments amongst any persons of honour, quality, or virtue.  If some heretical persons and
schismatical sectaries have at any time formerly been so arrayed and clothed (though many have
imputed such a kind of dress to cosenage, cheat, imposture, and an affectation of tyranny upon
credulous minds of the rude multitude), I will nevertheless not blame them for it, nor in that
point judge rashly or sinistrously of them.  Everyone overflowingly aboundeth in his own sense
and fancy; yea, in things of a foreign consideration, altogether extrinsical and indifferent,
which in and of themselves are neither commendable nor bad, because they proceed not from the
interior of the thoughts and heart, which is the shop of all good and evil; of goodness, if
it be upright, and that its affections be regulated by the pure and clean spirit of righteousness;
and, on the other side, of wickedness, if its inclinations, straying beyond the bounds of equity,
be corrupted and depraved by the malice and suggestions of the devil.  It is only the novelty
and new-fangledness thereof which I dislike, together with the contempt of common custom and
the fashion which is in use.

The colour, answered Panurge, is convenient, for it is conform to that of my council-board
carpet; therefore will I henceforth hold me with it, and more narrowly and circumspectly than
ever hitherto I have done look to my affairs and business.  Seeing I am once out of debt, you
never yet saw man more unpleasing than I will be, if God help me not.  Lo, here be my spectacles.
To see me afar off, you would readily say that it were Friar (John) Burgess.  I believe certainly
that in the next ensuing year I shall once more preach the Crusade.  Bounce, buckram.  Do you
see this russet? Doubt not but there lurketh under it some hid property and occult virtue known
to very few in the world.  I did not take it on before this morning, and, nevertheless, am
already in a rage of lust, mad after a wife, and vehemently hot upon untying the codpiece-point;
I itch, I tingle, I wriggle, and long exceedingly to be married, that, without the danger of
cudgel-blows, I may labour my female copes-mate with the hard push of a bull-horned devil.
O the provident and thrifty husband that I then will be!  After my death, with all honour and
respect due to my frugality, will they burn the sacred bulk of my body, of purpose to preserve
the ashes thereof, in memory of the choicest pattern that ever was of a perfectly wary and
complete householder.  Cops body, this is not the carpet whereon my treasurer shall be allowed
to play false in his accounts with me, by setting down an X for a V, or an L for an S.  For
in that case should I make a hail of fisticuffs to fly into his face.  Look upon me, sir, both
before and behind,--it is made after the manner of a toga, which was the ancient fashion of
the Romans in time of peace.  I took the mode, shape, and form thereof in Trajan's Column at
Rome, as also in the Triumphant Arch of Septimus Severus.  I am tired of the wars, weary of
wearing buff-coats, cassocks, and hoquetons.  My shoulders are pitifully worn and bruised with
the carrying of harness.  Let armour cease, and the long robe bear sway! At least it must be
so for the whole space of the succeeding year, if I be married; as yesterday, by the Mosaic
law, you evidenced.  In what concerneth the breeches, my great-aunt Laurence did long ago tell
me, that the breeches were only ordained for the use of the codpiece, and to no other end;
which I, upon a no less forcible consequence, give credit to every whit, as well as to the
saying of the fine fellow Galen, who in his ninth book, Of the Use and Employment of our Members,
allegeth that the head was made for the eyes.  For nature might have placed our heads in our
knees or elbows, but having beforehand determined that the eyes should serve to discover things
from afar, she for the better enabling them to execute their designed office, fixed them in
the head, as on the top of a long pole, in the most eminent part of all the body--no otherwise
than we see the phares, or high towers erected in the mouths of havens, that navigators may
the further off perceive with ease the lights of the nightly fires and lanterns.  And because
I would gladly, for some short while, a year at least, take a little rest and breathing time
from the toilsome labour of the military profession, that is to say, be married, I have desisted
from wearing any more a codpiece, and consequently have laid aside my breeches.  For the codpiece
is the principal and most especial piece of armour that a warrior doth carry; and therefore
do I maintain even to the fire (exclusively, understand you me), that no Turks can properly
be said to be armed men, in regard that codpieces are by their law forbidden to be worn.

Chapter 3.VIII.

Why the codpiece is held to be the chief piece of armour amongst warriors.

Will you maintain, quoth Pantagruel, that the codpiece is the chief piece of a military harness?
It is a new kind of doctrine, very paradoxical; for we say, At spurs begins the arming of a
man.  Sir, I maintain it, answered Panurge, and not wrongfully do I maintain it.  Behold how
nature, having a fervent desire, after its production of plants, trees, shrubs, herbs, sponges,
and plant-animals, to eternize and continue them unto all succession of ages (in their several
kinds or sorts, at least, although the individuals perish) unruinable, and in an everlasting
being, hath most curiously armed and fenced their buds, sprouts, shoots, and seeds, wherein
the above-mentioned perpetuity consisteth, by strengthening, covering, guarding, and fortifying
them with an admirable industry, with husks, cases, scurfs and swads, hulls, cods, stones,
films, cartels, shells, ears, rinds, barks, skins, ridges, and prickles, which serve them instead
of strong, fair, and natural codpieces.  As is manifestly apparent in pease, beans, fasels,
pomegranates, peaches, cottons, gourds, pumpions, melons, corn, lemons, almonds, walnuts, filberts,
and chestnuts; as likewise in all plants, slips, or sets whatsoever, wherein it is plainly
and evidently seen, that the sperm and semence is more closely veiled, overshadowed, corroborated,
and thoroughly harnessed, than any other part, portion, or parcel of the whole.

Nature, nevertheless, did not after that manner provide for the sempiternizing of (the) human
race; but, on the contrary, created man naked, tender, and frail, without either offensive
or defensive arms; and that in the estate of innocence, in the first age of all, which was
the golden season; not as a plant, but living creature, born for peace, not war, and brought
forth into the world with an unquestionable right and title to the plenary fruition and enjoyment
of all fruits and vegetables, as also to a certain calm and gentle rule and dominion over all
kinds of beasts, fowls, fishes, reptiles, and insects.  Yet afterwards it happening in the
time of the iron age, under the reign of Jupiter, when, to the multiplication of mischievous
actions, wickedness and malice began to take root and footing within the then perverted hearts
of men, that the earth began to bring forth nettles, thistles, thorns, briars, and such other
stubborn and rebellious vegetables to the nature of man.  Nor scarce was there any animal which
by a fatal disposition did not then revolt from him, and tacitly conspire and covenant with
one another to serve him no longer, nor, in case of their ability to resist, to do him any
manner of obedience, but rather, to the uttermost of their power, to annoy him with all the
hurt and harm they could.  The man, then, that he might maintain his primitive right and prerogative,
and continue his sway and dominion over all, both vegetable and sensitive creatures, and knowing
of a truth that he could not be well accommodated as he ought without the servitude and subjection
of several animals, bethought himself that of necessity he must needs put on arms, and make
provision of harness against wars and violence.  By the holy Saint Babingoose, cried out Pantagruel,
you are become, since the last rain, a great lifrelofre,--philosopher, I should say.  Take
notice, sir, quoth Panurge, when Dame Nature had prompted him to his own arming, what part
of the body it was, where, by her inspiration, he clapped on the first harness.  It was forsooth
by the double pluck of my little dog the ballock and good Senor Don Priapos Stabo-stando--which
done, he was content, and sought no more.  This is certified by the testimony of the great
Hebrew captain (and) philosopher Moses, who affirmeth that he fenced that member with a brave
and gallant codpiece, most exquisitely framed, and by right curious devices of a notably pregnant
invention made up and composed of fig-tree leaves, which by reason of their solid stiffness,
incisory notches, curled frizzling, sleeked smoothness, large ampleness, together with their
colour, smell, virtue, and faculty, were exceeding proper and fit for the covering and arming
of the satchels of generation--the hideously big Lorraine cullions being from thence only excepted,
which, swaggering down to the lowermost bottom of the breeches, cannot abide, for being quite
out of all order and method, the stately fashion of the high and lofty codpiece; as is manifest
by the noble Valentine Viardiere, whom I found at Nancy, on the first day of May--the more
flauntingly to gallantrize it afterwards--rubbing his ballocks, spread out upon a table after
the manner of a Spanish cloak.  Wherefore it is, that none should henceforth say, who would
not speak improperly, when any country bumpkin hieth to the wars, Have a care, my roister,
of the wine-pot, that is, the skull, but, Have a care, my roister, of the milk-pot, that is,
the testicles.  By the whole rabble of the horned fiends of hell, the head being cut off, that
single person only thereby dieth.  But, if the ballocks be marred, the whole race of human
kind would forthwith perish, and be lost for ever.

This was the motive which incited the goodly writer Galen, Lib. 1. De Spermate, to aver with
boldness that it were better, that is to say, a less evil, to have no heart at all than to
be quite destitute of genitories; for there is laid up, conserved, and put in store, as in
a secessive repository and sacred warehouse, the semence and original source of the whole offspring
of mankind.  Therefore would I be apt to believe, for less than a hundred francs, that those
are the very same stones by means whereof Deucalion and Pyrrha restored the human race, in
peopling with men and women the world, which a little before that had been drowned in the overflowing
waves of a poetical deluge.  This stirred up the valiant Justinian, L. 4. De Cagotis tollendis,
to collocate his Summum Bonum, in Braguibus, et Braguetis.  For this and other causes, the
Lord Humphrey de Merville, following of his king to a certain warlike expedition, whilst he
was in trying upon his own person a new suit of armour, for of his old rusty harness he could
make no more use, by reason that some few years since the skin of his belly was a great way
removed from his kidneys, his lady thereupon, in the profound musing of a contemplative spirit,
very maturely considering that he had but small care of the staff of love and packet of marriage,
seeing he did no otherwise arm that part of the body than with links of mail, advised him to
shield, fence, and gabionate it with a big tilting helmet which she had lying in her closet,
to her otherwise utterly unprofitable.  On this lady were penned these subsequent verses, which
are extant in the third book of the Shitbrana of Paltry Wenches.

  When Yoland saw her spouse equipp'd for fight,
  And, save the codpiece, all in armour dight,
  My dear, she cried, why, pray, of all the rest
  Is that exposed, you know I love the best?
  Was she to blame for an ill-managed fear,--
  Or rather pious, conscionable care?
  Wise lady, she!  In hurlyburly fight,
  Can any tell where random blows may light?

Leave off then, sir, from being astonished, and wonder no more at this new manner of decking
and trimming up of myself as you now see me.

Chapter 3.IX.

How Panurge asketh counsel of Pantagruel whether he should marry, yea, or no.

To this Pantagruel replying nothing, Panurge prosecuted the discourse he had already broached,
and therewithal fetching, as from the bottom of his heart, a very deep sigh, said, My lord
and master, you have heard the design I am upon, which is to marry, if by some disastrous mischance
all the holes in the world be not shut up, stopped, closed, and bushed.  I humbly beseech you,
for the affection which of a long time you have borne me, to give me your best advice therein.
Then, answered Pantagruel, seeing you have so decreed, taken deliberation thereon, and that
the matter is fully determined, what need is there of any further talk thereof, but forthwith
to put it into execution what you have resolved?  Yea but, quoth Panurge, I would be loth to
act anything therein without your counsel had thereto.  It is my judgment also, quoth Pantagruel,
and I advise you to it. Nevertheless, quoth Panurge, if I understood aright that it were much
better for me to remain a bachelor as I am, than to run headlong upon new hairbrained undertakings
of conjugal adventure, I would rather choose not to marry.  Quoth Pantagruel, Then do not marry.
Yea but, quoth Panurge, would you have me so solitarily drive out the whole course of my life,
without the comfort of a matrimonial consort?  You know it is written, Vae soli! and a single
person is never seen to reap the joy and solace that is found with married folks.  Then marry,
in the name of God, quoth Pantagruel.  But if, quoth Panurge, my wife should make me a cuckold--as
it is not unknown unto you, how this hath been a very plentiful year in the production of that
kind of cattle--I would fly out, and grow impatient beyond all measure and mean.  I love cuckolds
with my heart, for they seem unto me to be of a right honest conversation, and I truly do very
willingly frequent their company; but should I die for it, I would not be one of their number.
That is a point for me of a too sore prickling point.  Then do not marry, quoth Pantagruel,
for without all controversy this sentence of Seneca is infallibly true, What thou to others
shalt have done, others will do the like to thee.  Do you, quoth Panurge, aver that without
all exception?  Yes, truly, quoth Pantagruel, without all exception.  Ho, ho, says Panurge,
by the wrath of a little devil, his meaning is, either in this world or in the other which
is to come.  Yet seeing I can no more want a wife than a blind man his staff--(for) the funnel
must be in agitation, without which manner of occupation I cannot live--were it not a great
deal better for me to apply and associate myself to some one honest, lovely, and virtuous woman,
than as I do, by a new change of females every day, run a hazard of being bastinadoed, or,
which is worse, of the great pox, if not of both together.  For never--be it spoken by their
husbands' leave and favour--had I enjoyment yet of an honest woman.  Marry then, in God's name,
quoth Pantagruel.  But if, quoth Panurge, it were the will of God, and that my destiny did
unluckily lead me to marry an honest woman who should beat me, I would be stored with more
than two third parts of the patience of Job, if I were not stark mad by it, and quite distracted
with such rugged dealings.  For it hath been told me that those exceeding honest women have
ordinarily very wicked head-pieces; therefore is it that their family lacketh not for good
vinegar.  Yet in that case should it go worse with me, if I did not then in such sort bang
her back and breast, so thumpingly bethwack her gillets, to wit, her arms, legs, head, lights,
liver, and milt, with her other entrails, and mangle, jag, and slash her coats so after the
cross-billet fashion that the greatest devil of hell should wait at the gate for the reception
of her damnel soul.  I could make a shift for this year to waive such molestation and disquiet,
and be content to lay aside that trouble, and not to be engaged in it.

Do not marry then, answered Pantagruel.  Yea but, quoth Panurge, considering the condition
wherein I now am, out of debt and unmarried; mark what I say, free from all debt, in an ill
hour, for, were I deeply on the score, my creditors would be but too careful of my paternity,
but being quit, and not married, nobody will be so regardful of me, or carry towards me a love
like that which is said to be in a conjugal affection.  And if by some mishap I should fall
sick, I would be looked to very waywardly.  The wise man saith, Where there is no woman--I
mean the mother of a family and wife in the union of a lawful wedlock--the crazy and diseased
are in danger of being ill used and of having much brabbling and strife about them; as by clear
experience hath been made apparent in the persons of popes, legates, cardinals, bishops, abbots,
priors, priests, and monks; but there, assure yourself, you shall not find me.  Marry then,
in the name of God, answered Pantagruel.  But if, quoth Panurge, being ill at ease, and possibly
through that distemper made unable to discharge the matrimonial duty that is incumbent to an
active husband, my wife, impatient of that drooping sickness and faint-fits of a pining languishment,
should abandon and prostitute herself to the embraces of another man, and not only then not
help and assist me in my extremity and need, but withal flout at and make sport of that my
grievous distress and calamity; or peradventure, which is worse, embezzle my goods and steal
from me, as I have seen it oftentimes befall unto the lot of many other men, it were enough
to undo me utterly, to fill brimful the cup of my misfortune, and make me play the mad-pate
reeks of Bedlam.  Do not marry then, quoth Pantagruel.  Yea but, said Panurge, I shall never
by any other means come to have lawful sons and daughters, in whom I may harbour some hope
of perpetuating my name and arms, and to whom also I may leave and bequeath my inheritances
and purchased goods (of which latter sort you need not doubt but that in some one or other
of these mornings I will make a fair and goodly show), that so I may cheer up and make merry
when otherwise I should be plunged into a peevish sullen mood of pensive sullenness, as I do
perceive daily by the gentle and loving carriage of your kind and gracious father towards you;
as all honest folks use to do at their own homes and private dwelling-houses. For being free
from debt, and yet not married, if casually I should fret and be angry, although the cause
of my grief and displeasure were never so just, I am afraid, instead of consolation, that I
should meet with nothing else but scoffs, frumps, gibes, and mocks at my disastrous fortune.
Marry then, in the name of God, quoth Pantagruel.

Chapter 3.X.

How Pantagruel representeth unto Panurge the difficulty of giving advice in the matter of marriage;
and to that purpose mentioneth somewhat of the Homeric and Virgilian lotteries.

Your counsel, quoth Panurge, under your correction and favour, seemeth unto me not unlike to
the song of Gammer Yea-by-nay.  It is full of sarcasms, mockeries, bitter taunts, nipping bobs,
derisive quips, biting jerks, and contradictory iterations, the one part destroying the other.
I know not, quoth Pantagruel, which of all my answers to lay hold on; for your proposals are
so full of ifs and buts, that I can ground nothing on them, nor pitch upon any solid and positive
determination satisfactory to what is demanded by them.  Are not you assured within yourself
of what you have a mind to?  The chief and main point of the whole matter lieth there.  All
the rest is merely casual, and totally dependeth upon the fatal disposition of the heavens.

We see some so happy in the fortune of this nuptial encounter, that their family shineth as
it were with the radiant effulgency of an idea, model, or representation of the joys of paradise;
and perceive others, again, to be so unluckily matched in the conjugal yoke, that those very
basest of devils which tempt the hermits that inhabit the deserts of Thebais and Montserrat
are not more miserable than they.  It is therefore expedient, seeing you are resolved for once
to take a trial of the state of marriage, that, with shut eyes, bowing your head, and kissing
the ground, you put the business to a venture, and give it a fair hazard, in recommending the
success of the residue to the disposure of Almighty God.  It lieth not in my power to give
you any other manner of assurance, or otherwise to certify you of what shall ensue on this
your undertaking.  Nevertheless, if it please you, this you may do.  Bring hither Virgil's
poems, that after having opened the book, and with our fingers severed the leaves thereof three
several times, we may, according to the number agreed upon betwixt ourselves, explore the future
hap of your intended marriage.  For frequently by a Homeric lottery have many hit upon their
destinies; as is testified in the person of Socrates, who, whilst he was in prison, hearing
the recitation of this verse of Homer, said of Achilles in the Ninth of the Iliads--

  Emati ke tritato Phthien eribolon ikoimen,

  We, the third day, to fertile Pthia came--

thereby foresaw that on the third subsequent day he was to die.  Of the truth whereof he assured
Aeschines; as Plato, in Critone, Cicero, in Primo, de Divinatione, Diogenes Laertius, and others,
have to the full recorded in their works.  The like is also witnessed by Opilius Macrinus,
to whom, being desirous to know if he should be the Roman emperor, befell, by chance of lot,
this sentence in the Eighth of the Iliads--

  O geron, e mala de se neoi teirousi machetai,
  Ze de bin lelutai, chalepon de se geras opazei.

  Dotard, new warriors urge thee to be gone.
  Thy life decays, and old age weighs thee down.

In fact, he, being then somewhat ancient, had hardly enjoyed the sovereignty of the empire
for the space of fourteen months, when by Heliogabalus, then both young and strong, he was
dispossessed thereof, thrust out of all, and killed.  Brutus doth also bear witness of another
experiment of this nature, who willing, through this exploratory way by lot, to learn what
the event and issue should be of the Pharsalian battle wherein he perished, he casually encountered
on this verse, said of Patroclus in the Sixteenth of the Iliads--

  Alla me moir oloe, kai Letous ektanen uios.

  Fate, and Latona's son have shot me dead.

And accordingly Apollo was the field-word in the dreadful day of that fight.  Divers notable
things of old have likewise been foretold and known by casting of Virgilian lots; yea, in matters
of no less importance than the obtaining of the Roman empire, as it happened to Alexander Severus,
who, trying his fortune at the said kind of lottery, did hit upon this verse written in the
Sixth of the Aeneids--

  Tu regere imperio populos, Romane, memento.

  Know, Roman, that thy business is to reign.

He, within very few years thereafter, was effectually and in good earnest created and installed
Roman emperor.  A semblable story thereto is related of Adrian, who, being hugely perplexed
within himself out of a longing humour to know in what account he was with the Emperor Trajan,
and how large the measure of that affection was which he did bear unto him, had recourse, after
the manner above specified, to the Maronian lottery, which by haphazard tendered him these
lines out of the Sixth of the Aeneids--

  Quis procul ille autem, ramis insignis olivae
  Sacra ferens?  Nosco crines incanaque menta
  Regis Romani.

  But who is he, conspicuous from afar,
  With olive boughs, that doth his offerings bear?
  By the white hair and beard I know him plain,
  The Roman king.

Shortly thereafter was he adopted by Trajan, and succeeded to him in the empire.  Moreover,
to the lot of the praiseworthy Emperor Claudius befell this line of Virgil, written in the
Sixth of his Aeneids--

  Tertia dum Latio regnantem viderit aestas.

  Whilst the third summer saw him reign, a king
  In Latium.

And in effect he did not reign above two years.  To the said Claudian also, inquiring concerning
his brother Quintilius, whom he proposed as a colleague with himself in the empire, happened
the response following in the Sixth of the Aeneids--

  Ostendent terris hunc tantum fata.

    Whom Fate let us see,
  And would no longer suffer him to be.

And it so fell out; for he was killed on the seventeenth day after he had attained unto the
management of the imperial charge.  The very same lot, also, with the like misluck, did betide
the Emperor Gordian the younger. To Claudius Albinus, being very solicitous to understand somewhat
of his future adventures, did occur this saying, which is written in the Sixth of the Aeneids--

  Hic rem Romanam magno turbante tumultu
  Sistet Eques, &c.

  The Romans, boiling with tumultuous rage,
  This warrior shall the dangerous storm assuage:
  With victories he the Carthaginian mauls,
  And with strong hand shall crush the rebel Gauls.

Likewise, when the Emperor D. Claudius, Aurelian's predecessor, did with great eagerness research
after the fate to come of his posterity, his hap was to alight on this verse in the First of
the Aeneids--

  Hic ego nec metas rerum, nec tempora pono.

  No bounds are to be set, no limits here.

Which was fulfilled by the goodly genealogical row of his race.  When Mr. Peter Amy did in
like manner explore and make trial if he should escape the ambush of the hobgoblins who lay
in wait all-to-bemaul him, he fell upon this verse in the Third of the Aeneids--

  Heu! fuge crudeles terras, fuge littus avarum!

  Oh, flee the bloody land, the wicked shore!

Which counsel he obeying, safe and sound forthwith avoided all these ambuscades.

Were it not to shun prolixity, I could enumerate a thousand such like adventures, which, conform
to the dictate and verdict of the verse, have by that manner of lot-casting encounter befallen
to the curious researchers of them.  Do not you nevertheless imagine, lest you should be deluded,
that I would upon this kind of fortune-flinging proof infer an uncontrollable and not to be
gainsaid infallibility of truth.

Chapter 3.XI.

How Pantagruel showeth the trial of one's fortune by the throwing of dice to be unlawful.

It would be sooner done, quoth Panurge, and more expeditely, if we should try the matter at
the chance of three fair dice.  Quoth Pantagruel, That sort of lottery is deceitful, abusive,
illicitous, and exceedingly scandalous.  Never trust in it.  The accursed book of the Recreation
of Dice was a great while ago excogitated in Achaia, near Bourre, by that ancient enemy of
mankind, the infernal calumniator, who, before the statue or massive image of the Bourraic
Hercules, did of old, and doth in several places of the world as yet, make many simple souls
to err and fall into his snares.  You know how my father Gargantua hath forbidden it over all
his kingdoms and dominions; how he hath caused burn the moulds and draughts thereof, and altogether
suppressed, abolished, driven forth, and cast it out of the land, as a most dangerous plague
and infection to any well-polished state or commonwealth.  What I have told you of dice, I
say the same of the play at cockall.  It is a lottery of the like guile and deceitfulness;
and therefore do not for convincing of me allege in opposition to this my opinion, or bring
in the example of the fortunate cast of Tiberius, within the fountain of Aponus, at the oracle
of Gerion. These are the baited hooks by which the devil attracts and draweth unto him the
foolish souls of silly people into eternal perdition.

Nevertheless, to satisfy your humour in some measure, I am content you throw three dice upon
this table, that, according to the number of the blots which shall happen to be cast up, we
may hit upon a verse of that page which in the setting open of the book you shall have pitched
upon.

Have you any dice in your pocket?  A whole bagful, answered Panurge.  That is provision against
the devil, as is expounded by Merlin Coccaius, Lib. 2. De Patria Diabolorum.  The devil would
be sure to take me napping, and very much at unawares, if he should find me without dice. 
With this, the three dice being taken out, produced, and thrown, they fell so pat upon the
lower points that the cast was five, six, and five.  These are, quoth Panurge, sixteen in all.
Let us take the sixteenth line of the page.  The number pleaseth me very well; I hope we shall
have a prosperous and happy chance.  May I be thrown amidst all the devils of hell, even as
a great bowl cast athwart at a set of ninepins, or cannon-ball shot among a battalion of foot,
in case so many times I do not boult my future wife the first night of our marriage!  Of that,
forsooth, I make no doubt at all, quoth Pantagruel.  You needed not to have rapped forth such
a horrid imprecation, the sooner to procure credit for the performance of so small a business,
seeing possibly the first bout will be amiss, and that you know is usually at tennis called
fifteen.  At the next justling turn you may readily amend that fault, and so complete your
reckoning of sixteen.  Is it so, quoth Panurge, that you understand the matter?  And must my
words be thus interpreted?  Nay, believe me never yet was any solecism committed by that valiant
champion who often hath for me in Belly-dale stood sentry at the hypogastrian cranny.  Did
you ever hitherto find me in the confraternity of the faulty?  Never, I trow; never, nor ever
shall, for ever and a day.  I do the feat like a goodly friar or father confessor, without
default.  And therein am I willing to be judged by the players.  He had no sooner spoke these
words than the works of Virgil were brought in. But before the book was laid open, Panurge
said to Pantagruel, My heart, like the furch of a hart in a rut, doth beat within my breast.
Be pleased to feel and grope my pulse a little on this artery of my left arm. At its frequent
rise and fall you would say that they swinge and belabour me after the manner of a probationer,
posed and put to a peremptory trial in the examination of his sufficiency for the discharge
of the learned duty of a graduate in some eminent degree in the college of the Sorbonists.

But would you not hold it expedient, before we proceed any further, that we should invocate
Hercules and the Tenetian goddesses who in the chamber of lots are said to rule, sit in judgment,
and bear a presidential sway? Neither him nor them, answered Pantagruel; only open up the leaves
of the book with your fingers, and set your nails awork.

Chapter 3.XII.

How Pantagruel doth explore by the Virgilian lottery what fortune Panurge shall have in his
marriage.

This response, quoth Pantagruel, maketh not very much for your benefit or advantage; for it
plainly signifies and denoteth that your wife shall be a strumpet, and yourself by consequence
a cuckold.  The goddess, whom you shall not find propitious nor favourable unto you, is Minerva,
a most redoubtable and dreadful virgin, a powerful and fulminating goddess, an enemy to cuckolds
and effeminate youngsters, to cuckold-makers and adulterers.  The god is Jupiter, a terrible
and thunder-striking god from heaven.  And withal it is to be remarked, that, conform to the
doctrine of the ancient Etrurians, the manubes, for so did they call the darting hurls or slinging
casts of the Vulcanian thunderbolts, did only appertain to her and to Jupiter her father capital.
This was verified in the conflagration of the ships of Ajax Oileus, nor doth this fulminating
power belong to any other of the Olympic gods.  Men, therefore, stand not in such fear of them.
Moreover, I will tell you, and you may take it as extracted out of the profoundest mysteries
of mythology, that, when the giants had enterprised the waging of a war against the power of
the celestial orbs, the gods at first did laugh at those attempts, and scorned such despicable
enemies, who were, in their conceit, not strong enough to cope in feats of warfare with their
pages; but when they saw by the gigantine labour the high hill Pelion set on lofty Ossa, and
that the mount Olympus was made shake to be erected on the top of both, then was it that Jupiter
held a parliament, or general convention, wherein it was unanimously resolved upon and condescended
to by all the gods, that they should worthily and valiantly stand to their defence.  And because
they had often seen battles lost by the cumbersome lets and disturbing encumbrances of women
confusedly huddled in amongst armies, it was at that time decreed and enacted that they should
expel and drive out of heaven into Egypt and the confines of Nile that whole crew of goddesses,
disguised in the shapes of weasels, polecats, bats, shrew-mice, ferrets, fulmarts, and other
such like odd transformations; only Minerva was reserved to participate with Jupiter in the
horrific fulminating power, as being the goddess both of war and learning, of arts and arms,
of counsel and despatch--a goddess armed from her birth, a goddess dreaded in heaven, in the
air, by sea and land.  By the belly of Saint Buff, quoth Panurge, should I be Vulcan, whom
the poet blazons?  Nay, I am neither a cripple, coiner of false money, nor smith, as he was.
My wife possibly will be as comely and handsome as ever was his Venus, but not a whore like
her, nor I a cuckold like him.  The crook-legged slovenly slave made himself to be declared
a cuckold by a definite sentence and judgment, in the open view of all the gods.  For this
cause ought you to interpret the afore-mentioned verse quite contrary to what you have said.
This lot importeth that my wife will be honest, virtuous, chaste, loyal, and faithful; not
armed, surly, wayward, cross, giddy, humorous, heady, hairbrained, or extracted out of the
brains, as was the goddess Pallas; nor shall this fair jolly Jupiter be my co-rival.  He shall
never dip his bread in my broth, though we should sit together at one table.

Consider his exploits and gallant actions.  He was the manifest ruffian, wencher, whoremonger,
and most infamous cuckold-maker that ever breathed. He did always lecher it like a boar, and
no wonder, for he was fostered by a sow in the Isle of Candia, if Agathocles the Babylonian
be not a liar, and more rammishly lascivious than a buck; whence it is that he is said by others
to have been suckled and fed with the milk of the Amalthaean goat. By the virtue of Acheron,
he justled, bulled, and lastauriated in one day the third part of the world, beasts and people,
floods and mountains; that was Europa.  For this grand subagitatory achievement the Ammonians
caused draw, delineate, and paint him in the figure and shape of a ram ramming, and horned
ram.  But I know well enough how to shield and preserve myself from that horned champion. 
He will not, trust me, have to deal in my person with a sottish, dunsical Amphitryon, nor with
a silly witless Argus, for all his hundred spectacles, nor yet with the cowardly meacock Acrisius,
the simple goose-cap Lycus of Thebes, the doting blockhead Agenor, the phlegmatic pea-goose
Aesop, rough-footed Lycaon, the luskish misshapen Corytus of Tuscany, nor with the large-backed
and strong-reined Atlas.  Let him alter, change, transform, and metamorphose himself into a
hundred various shapes and figures, into a swan, a bull, a satyr, a shower of gold, or into
a cuckoo, as he did when he unmaidened his sister Juno; into an eagle, ram, or dove, as when
he was enamoured of the virgin Phthia, who then dwelt in the Aegean territory; into fire, a
serpent, yea, even into a flea; into Epicurean and Democratical atoms, or, more Magistronostralistically,
into those sly intentions of the mind, which in the schools are called second notions,--I'll
catch him in the nick, and take him napping.  And would you know what I would do unto him?
Even that which to his father Coelum Saturn did--Seneca foretold it of me, and Lactantius hath
confirmed it--what the goddess Rhea did to Athis.  I would make him two stone lighter, rid
him of his Cyprian cymbals, and cut so close and neatly by the breech, that there shall not
remain thereof so much as one--, so cleanly would I shave him, and disable him for ever from
being Pope, for Testiculos non habet.  Hold there, said Pantagruel; ho, soft and fair, my lad!
Enough of that,--cast up, turn over the leaves, and try your fortune for the second time. 
Then did he fall upon this ensuing verse:

  Membra quatit, gelidusque coit formidine sanguis.

  His joints and members quake, he becomes pale,
  And sudden fear doth his cold blood congeal.

This importeth, quoth Pantagruel, that she will soundly bang your back and belly.  Clean and
quite contrary, answered Panurge; it is of me that he prognosticates, in saying that I will
beat her like a tiger if she vex me. Sir Martin Wagstaff will perform that office, and in default
of a cudgel, the devil gulp him, if I should not eat her up quick, as Candaul the Lydian king
did his wife, whom he ravened and devoured.

You are very stout, says Pantagruel, and courageous; Hercules himself durst hardly adventure
to scuffle with you in this your raging fury.  Nor is it strange; for the Jan is worth two,
and two in fight against Hercules are too too strong.  Am I a Jan? quoth Panurge.  No, no,
answered Pantagruel. My mind was only running upon the lurch and tricktrack.  Thereafter did
he hit, at the third opening of the book, upon this verse:

  Foemineo praedae, et spoliorum ardebat amore.

  After the spoil and pillage, as in fire,
  He burnt with a strong feminine desire.

This portendeth, quoth Pantagruel, that she will steal your goods, and rob you.  Hence this,
according to these three drawn lots, will be your future destiny, I clearly see it,--you will
be a cuckold, you will be beaten, and you will be robbed.  Nay, it is quite otherwise, quoth
Panurge; for it is certain that this verse presageth that she will love me with a perfect liking.
Nor did the satyr-writing poet lie in proof hereof, when he affirmed that a woman, burning
with extreme affection, takes sometimes pleasure to steal from her sweetheart.  And what, I
pray you?  A glove, a point, or some such trifling toy of no importance, to make him keep a
gentle kind of stirring in the research and quest thereof.  In like manner, these small scolding
debates and petty brabbling contentions, which frequently we see spring up and for a certain
space boil very hot betwixt a couple of high-spirited lovers, are nothing else but recreative
diversions for their refreshment, spurs to and incentives of a more fervent amity than ever.
As, for example, we do sometimes see cutlers with hammers maul their finest whetstones, therewith
to sharpen their iron tools the better.  And therefore do I think that these three lots make
much for my advantage; which, if not, I from their sentence totally appeal.  There is no appellation,
quoth Pantagruel, from the decrees of fate or destiny, of lot or chance; as is recorded by
our ancient lawyers, witness Baldus, Lib. ult. Cap. de Leg.  The reason hereof is, Fortune
doth not acknowledge a superior, to whom an appeal may be made from her or any of her substitutes.
And in this case the pupil cannot be restored to his right in full, as openly by the said author
is alleged in L. Ait Praetor, paragr. ult. ff. de minor.

Chapter 3.XIII.

How Pantagruel adviseth Panurge to try the future good or bad luck of his marriage by dreams.

Now, seeing we cannot agree together in the manner of expounding or interpreting the sense
of the Virgilian lots, let us bend our course another way, and try a new sort of divination.
Of what kind? asked Panurge.  Of a good ancient and authentic fashion, answered Pantagruel;
it is by dreams.  For in dreaming, such circumstances and conditions being thereto adhibited,
as are clearly enough described by Hippocrates, in Lib. Peri ton enupnion, by Plato, Plotin,
Iamblicus, Sinesius, Aristotle, Xenophon, Galen, Plutarch, Artemidorus, Daldianus, Herophilus,
Q. Calaber, Theocritus, Pliny, Athenaeus, and others, the soul doth oftentimes foresee what
is to come.  How true this is, you may conceive by a very vulgar and familiar example; as when
you see that at such a time as suckling babes, well nourished, fed, and fostered with good
milk, sleep soundly and profoundly, the nurses in the interim get leave to sport themselves,
and are licentiated to recreate their fancies at what range to them shall seem most fitting
and expedient, their presence, sedulity, and attendance on the cradle being, during all that
space, held unnecessary.  Even just so, when our body is at rest, that the concoction is everywhere
accomplished, and that, till it awake, it lacks for nothing, our soul delighteth to disport
itself and is well pleased in that frolic to take a review of its native country, which is
the heavens, where it receiveth a most notable participation of its first beginning with an
imbuement from its divine source, and in contemplation of that infinite and intellectual sphere,
whereof the centre is everywhere, and the circumference in no place of the universal world,
to wit, God, according to the doctrine of Hermes Trismegistus, to whom no new thing happeneth,
whom nothing that is past escapeth, and unto whom all things are alike present, remarketh not
only what is preterit and gone in the inferior course and agitation of sublunary matters, but
withal taketh notice what is to come; then bringing a relation of those future events unto
the body of the outward senses and exterior organs, it is divulged abroad unto the hearing
of others.  Whereupon the owner of that soul deserveth to be termed a vaticinator, or prophet.
Nevertheless, the truth is, that the soul is seldom able to report those things in such sincerity
as it hath seen them, by reason of the imperfection and frailty of the corporeal senses, which
obstruct the effectuating of that office; even as the moon doth not communicate unto this earth
of ours that light which she receiveth from the sun with so much splendour, heat, vigour, purity,
and liveliness as it was given her.  Hence it is requisite for the better reading, explaining,
and unfolding of these somniatory vaticinations and predictions of that nature, that a dexterous,
learned, skilful, wise, industrious, expert, rational, and peremptory expounder or interpreter
be pitched upon, such a one as by the Greeks is called onirocrit, or oniropolist.  For this
cause Heraclitus was wont to say that nothing is by dreams revealed to us, that nothing is
by dreams concealed from us, and that only we thereby have a mystical signification and secret
evidence of things to come, either for our own prosperous or unlucky fortune, or for the favourable
or disastrous success of another. The sacred Scriptures testify no less, and profane histories
assure us of it, in both which are exposed to our view a thousand several kinds of strange
adventures, which have befallen pat according to the nature of the dream, and that as well
to the party dreamer as to others.  The Atlantic people, and those that inhabit the (is)land
of Thasos, one of the Cyclades, are of this grand commodity deprived; for in their countries
none yet ever dreamed.  Of this sort (were) Cleon of Daulia, Thrasymedes, and in our days the
learned Frenchman Villanovanus, neither of all which knew what dreaming was.

Fail not therefore to-morrow, when the jolly and fair Aurora with her rosy fingers draweth
aside the curtains of the night to drive away the sable shades of darkness, to bend your spirits
wholly to the task of sleeping sound, and thereto apply yourself.  In the meanwhile you must
denude your mind of every human passion or affection, such as are love and hatred, fear and
hope, for as of old the great vaticinator, most famous and renowned prophet Proteus, was not
able in his disguise or transformation into fire, water, a tiger, a dragon, and other such
like uncouth shapes and visors, to presage anything that was to come till he was restored to
his own first natural and kindly form; just so doth man; for, at his reception of the art of
divination and faculty of prognosticating future things, that part in him which is the most
divine, to wit, the Nous, or Mens, must be calm, peaceable, untroubled, quiet, still, hushed,
and not embusied or distracted with foreign, soul-disturbing perturbations.  I am content,
quoth Panurge. But, I pray you, sir, must I this evening, ere I go to bed, eat much or little?
I do not ask this without cause.  For if I sup not well, large, round, and amply, my sleeping
is not worth a forked turnip.  All the night long I then but doze and rave, and in my slumbering
fits talk idle nonsense, my thoughts being in a dull brown study, and as deep in their dumps
as is my belly hollow.

Not to sup, answered Pantagruel, were best for you, considering the state of your complexion
and healthy constitution of your body.  A certain very ancient prophet, named Amphiaraus, wished
such as had a mind by dreams to be imbued with any oracle, for four-and-twenty hours to taste
no victuals, and to abstain from wine three days together.  Yet shall not you be put to such
a sharp, hard, rigorous, and extreme sparing diet.  I am truly right apt to believe that a
man whose stomach is replete with various cheer, and in a manner surfeited with drinking, is
hardly able to conceive aright of spiritual things; yet am not I of the opinion of those who,
after long and pertinacious fastings, think by such means to enter more profoundly into the
speculation of celestial mysteries.  You may very well remember how my father Gargantua (whom
here for honour sake I name) hath often told us that the writings of abstinent, abstemious,
and long-fasting hermits were every whit as saltless, dry, jejune, and insipid as were their
bodies when they did compose them.  It is a most difficult thing for the spirits to be in a
good plight, serene and lively, when there is nothing in the body but a kind of voidness and
inanity; seeing the philosophers with the physicians jointly affirm that the spirits which
are styled animal spring from, and have their constant practice in and through the arterial
blood, refined and purified to the life within the admirable net which, wonderfully framed,
lieth under the ventricles and tunnels of the brain.  He gave us also the example of the philosopher
who, when he thought most seriously to have withdrawn himself unto a solitary privacy, far
from the rustling clutterments of the tumultuous and confused world, the better to improve
his theory, to contrive, comment, and ratiocinate, was, notwithstanding his uttermost endeavours
to free himself from all untoward noises, surrounded and environed about so with the barking
of curs, bawling of mastiffs, bleating of sheep, prating of parrots, tattling of jackdaws,
grunting of swine, girning of boars, yelping of foxes, mewing of cats, cheeping of mice, squeaking
of weasels, croaking of frogs, crowing of cocks, cackling of hens, calling of partridges, chanting
of swans, chattering of jays, peeping of chickens, singing of larks, creaking of geese, chirping
of swallows, clucking of moorfowls, cucking of cuckoos, bumbling of bees, rammage of hawks,
chirming of linnets, croaking of ravens, screeching of owls, whicking of pigs, gushing of hogs,
curring of pigeons, grumbling of cushat-doves, howling of panthers, curkling of quails, chirping
of sparrows, crackling of crows, nuzzing of camels, wheening of whelps, buzzing of dromedaries,
mumbling of rabbits, cricking of ferrets, humming of wasps, mioling of tigers, bruzzing of
bears, sussing of kitlings, clamouring of scarfs, whimpering of fulmarts, booing of buffaloes,
warbling of nightingales, quavering of mavises, drintling of turkeys, coniating of storks,
frantling of peacocks, clattering of magpies, murmuring of stock-doves, crouting of cormorants,
cigling of locusts, charming of beagles, guarring of puppies, snarling of messens, rantling
of rats, guerieting of apes, snuttering of monkeys, pioling of pelicans, quacking of ducks,
yelling of wolves, roaring of lions, neighing of horses, crying of elephants, hissing of serpents,
and wailing of turtles, that he was much more troubled than if he had been in the middle of
the crowd at the fair of Fontenay or Niort.  Just so is it with those who are tormented with
the grievous pangs of hunger.  The stomach begins to gnaw, and bark, as it were, the eyes to
look dim, and the veins, by greedily sucking some refection to themselves from the proper substance
of all the members of a fleshy consistence, violently pull down and draw back that vagrant,
roaming spirit, careless and neglecting of his nurse and natural host, which is the body; as
when a hawk upon the fist, willing to take her flight by a soaring aloft in the open spacious
air, is on a sudden drawn back by a leash tied to her feet.

To this purpose also did he allege unto us the authority of Homer, the father of all philosophy,
who said that the Grecians did not put an end to their mournful mood for the death of Patroclus,
the most intimate friend of Achilles, till hunger in a rage declared herself, and their bellies
protested to furnish no more tears unto their grief.  For from bodies emptied and macerated
by long fasting there could not be such supply of moisture and brackish drops as might be proper
on that occasion.

Mediocrity at all times is commendable; nor in this case are you to abandon it.  You may take
a little supper, but thereat must you not eat of a hare, nor of any other flesh.  You are likewise
to abstain from beans, from the preak, by some called the polyp, as also from coleworts, cabbage,
and all other such like windy victuals, which may endanger the troubling of your brains and
the dimming or casting a kind of mist over your animal spirits. For, as a looking-glass cannot
exhibit the semblance or representation of the object set before it, and exposed to have its
image to the life expressed, if that the polished sleekedness thereof be darkened by gross
breathings, dampish vapours, and foggy, thick, infectious exhalations, even so the fancy cannot
well receive the impression of the likeness of those things which divination doth afford by
dreams, if any way the body be annoyed or troubled with the fumish steam of meat which it had
taken in a while before; because betwixt these two there still hath been a mutual sympathy
and fellow-feeling of an indissolubly knit affection.  You shall eat good Eusebian and Bergamot
pears, one apple of the short-shank pippin kind, a parcel of the little plums of Tours, and
some few cherries of the growth of my orchard.  Nor shall you need to fear that thereupon will
ensue doubtful dreams, fallacious, uncertain, and not to be trusted to, as by some peripatetic
philosophers hath been related; for that, say they, men do more copiously in the season of
harvest feed on fruitages than at any other time.  The same is mystically taught us by the
ancient prophets and poets, who allege that all vain and deceitful dreams lie hid and in covert
under the leaves which are spread on the ground--by reason that the leaves fall from the trees
in the autumnal quarter.  For the natural fervour which, abounding in ripe, fresh, recent fruits,
cometh by the quickness of its ebullition to be with ease evaporated into the animal parts
of the dreaming person--the experiment is obvious in most--is a pretty while before it be expired,
dissolved, and evanished.  As for your drink, you are to have it of the fair, pure water of
my fountain.

The condition, quoth Panurge, is very hard.  Nevertheless, cost what price it will, or whatsoever
come of it, I heartily condescend thereto; protesting that I shall to-morrow break my fast
betimes after my somniatory exercitations.  Furthermore, I recommend myself to Homer's two
gates, to Morpheus, to Iselon, to Phantasus, and unto Phobetor.  If they in this my great need
succour me and grant me that assistance which is fitting, I will in honour of them all erect
a jolly, genteel altar, composed of the softest down.  If I were now in Laconia, in the temple
of Juno, betwixt Oetile and Thalamis, she suddenly would disentangle my perplexity, resolve
me of my doubts, and cheer me up with fair and jovial dreams in a deep sleep.

Then did he say thus unto Pantagruel:  Sir, were it not expedient for my purpose to put a branch
or two of curious laurel betwixt the quilt and bolster of my bed, under the pillow on which
my head must lean?  There is no need at all of that, quoth Pantagruel; for, besides that it
is a thing very superstitious, the cheat thereof hath been at large discovered unto us in the
writings of Serapion, Ascalonites, Antiphon, Philochorus, Artemon, and Fulgentius Planciades.
I could say as much to you of the left shoulder of a crocodile, as also of a chameleon, without
prejudice be it spoken to the credit which is due to the opinion of old Democritus; and likewise
of the stone of the Bactrians, called Eumetrides, and of the Ammonian horn; for so by the Aethiopians
is termed a certain precious stone, coloured like gold, and in the fashion, shape, form, and
proportion of a ram's horn, as the horn of Jupiter Ammon is reported to have been:  they over
and above assuredly affirming that the dreams of those who carry it about them are no less
veritable and infallible than the truth of the divine oracles.  Nor is this much unlike to
what Homer and Virgil wrote of these two gates of sleep, to which you have been pleased to
recommend the management of what you have in hand.  The one is of ivory, which letteth in confused,
doubtful, and uncertain dreams; for through ivory, how small and slender soever it be, we can
see nothing, the density, opacity, and close compactedness of its material parts hindering
the penetration of the visual rays and the reception of the specieses of such things as are
visible.  The other is of horn, at which an entry is made to sure and certain dreams, even
as through horn, by reason of the diaphanous splendour and bright transparency thereof, the
species of all objects of the sight distinctly pass, and so without confusion appear, that
they are clearly seen.  Your meaning is, and you would thereby infer, quoth Friar John, that
the dreams of all horned cuckolds, of which number Panurge, by the help of God and his future
wife, is without controversy to be one, are always true and infallible.

Chapter 3.XIV.

Panurge's dream, with the interpretation thereof.

At seven o'clock of the next following morning Panurge did not fail to present himself before
Pantagruel, in whose chamber were at that time Epistemon, Friar John of the Funnels, Ponocrates,
Eudemon, Carpalin, and others, to whom, at the entry of Panurge, Pantagruel said, Lo! here
cometh our dreamer.  That word, quoth Epistemon, in ancient times cost very much, and was dearly
sold to the children of Jacob.  Then said Panurge, I have been plunged into my dumps so deeply,
as if I had been lodged with Gaffer Noddy-cap.  Dreamed indeed I have, and that right lustily;
but I could take along with me no more thereof that I did goodly understand save only that
I in my vision had a pretty, fair, young, gallant, handsome woman, who no less lovingly and
kindly treated and entertained me, hugged, cherished, cockered, dandled, and made much of me,
as if I had been another neat dilly-darling minion, like Adonis.  Never was man more glad than
I was then; my joy at that time was incomparable.  She flattered me, tickled me, stroked me,
groped me, frizzled me, curled me, kissed me, embraced me, laid her hands about my neck, and
now and then made jestingly pretty little horns above my forehead.  I told her in the like
disport, as I did play the fool with her, that she should rather place and fix them in a little
below mine eyes, that I might see the better what I should stick at with them; for, being so
situated, Momus then would find no fault therewith, as he did once with the position of the
horns of bulls.  The wanton, toying girl, notwithstanding any remonstrance of mine to the contrary,
did always drive and thrust them further in; yet thereby, which to me seemed wonderful, she
did not do me any hurt at all.  A little after, though I know not how, I thought I was transformed
into a tabor, and she into a chough.

My sleeping there being interrupted, I awaked in a start, angry, displeased, perplexed, chafing,
and very wroth.  There have you a large platterful of dreams, make thereupon good cheer, and,
if you please, spare not to interpret them according to the understanding which you may have
in them.  Come, Carpalin, let us to breakfast.  To my sense and meaning, quoth Pantagruel,
if I have skill or knowledge in the art of divination by dreams, your wife will not really,
and to the outward appearance of the world, plant or set horns, and stick them fast in your
forehead, after a visible manner, as satyrs use to wear and carry them; but she will be so
far from preserving herself loyal in the discharge and observance of a conjugal duty, that,
on the contrary, she will violate her plighted faith, break her marriage-oath, infringe all
matrimonial ties, prostitute her body to the dalliance of other men, and so make you a cuckold.
This point is clearly and manifestly explained and expounded by Artemidorus just as I have
related it.  Nor will there be any metamorphosis or transmutation made of you into a drum or
tabor, but you will surely be as soundly beaten as ever was tabor at a merry wedding.  Nor
yet will she be changed into a chough, but will steal from you, chiefly in the night, as is
the nature of that thievish bird.  Hereby may you perceive your dreams to be in every jot conform
and agreeable to the Virgilian lots.  A cuckold you will be, beaten and robbed.  Then cried
out Father John with a loud voice, He tells the truth; upon my conscience, thou wilt be a cuckold--an
honest one, I warrant thee.  O the brave horns that will be borne by thee!  Ha, ha, ha!  Our
good Master de Cornibus.  God save thee, and shield thee!  Wilt thou be pleased to preach but
two words of a sermon to us, and I will go through the parish church to gather up alms for
the poor.

You are, quoth Panurge, very far mistaken in your interpretation; for the matter is quite contrary
to your sense thereof.  My dream presageth that I shall by marriage be stored with plenty of
all manner of goods--the hornifying of me showing that I will possess a cornucopia, that Amalthaean
horn which is called the horn of abundance, whereof the fruition did still portend the wealth
of the enjoyer.  You possibly will say that they are rather like to be satyr's horns; for you
of these did make some mention. Amen, Amen, Fiat, fiatur, ad differentiam papae.  Thus shall
I have my touch-her-home still ready.  My staff of love, sempiternally in a good case, will,
satyr-like, be never toiled out--a thing which all men wish for, and send up their prayers
to that purpose, but such a thing as nevertheless is granted but to a few.  Hence doth it follow
by a consequence as clear as the sunbeams that I will never be in the danger of being made
a cuckold, for the defect hereof is Causa sine qua non; yea, the sole cause, as many think,
of making husbands cuckolds.  What makes poor scoundrel rogues to beg, I pray you?  Is it not
because they have not enough at home wherewith to fill their bellies and their pokes?  What
is it makes the wolves to leave the woods?  Is it not the want of flesh meat? What maketh women
whores?  You understand me well enough.  And herein may I very well submit my opinion to the
judgment of learned lawyers, presidents, counsellors, advocates, procurers, attorneys, and
other glossers and commentators on the venerable rubric, De frigidis et maleficiatis.  You
are, in truth, sir, as it seems to me (excuse my boldness if I have transgressed), in a most
palpable and absurd error to attribute my horns to cuckoldry.  Diana wears them on her head
after the manner of a crescent. Is she a cucquean for that?  How the devil can she be cuckolded
who never yet was married?  Speak somewhat more correctly, I beseech you, lest she, being offended,
furnish you with a pair of horns shapen by the pattern of those which she made for Actaeon.
The goodly Bacchus also carries horns, --Pan, Jupiter Ammon, with a great many others.  Are
they all cuckolds?  If Jove be a cuckold, Juno is a whore.  This follows by the figure metalepsis:
as to call a child, in the presence of his father and mother, a bastard, or whore's son, is
tacitly and underboard no less than if he had said openly the father is a cuckold and his wife
a punk.  Let our discourse come nearer to the purpose.  The horns that my wife did make me
are horns of abundance, planted and grafted in my head for the increase and shooting up of
all good things.  This will I affirm for truth, upon my word, and pawn my faith and credit
both upon it.  As for the rest, I will be no less joyful, frolic, glad, cheerful, merry, jolly,
and gamesome, than a well-bended tabor in the hands of a good drummer at a nuptial feast, still
making a noise, still rolling, still buzzing and cracking.  Believe me, sir, in that consisteth
none of my least good fortunes.  And my wife will be jocund, feat, compt, neat, quaint, dainty,
trim, tricked up, brisk, smirk, and smug, even as a pretty little Cornish chough.  Who will
not believe this, let hell or the gallows be the burden of his Christmas carol.

I remark, quoth Pantagruel, the last point or particle which you did speak of, and, having
seriously conferred it with the first, find that at the beginning you were delighted with the
sweetness of your dream; but in the end and final closure of it you startingly awaked, and
on a sudden were forthwith vexed in choler and annoyed.  Yea, quoth Panurge, the reason of
that was because I had fasted too long.  Flatter not yourself, quoth Pantagruel; all will go
to ruin.  Know for a certain truth, that every sleep that endeth with a starting, and leaves
the person irksome, grieved, and fretting, doth either signify a present evil, or otherwise
presageth and portendeth a future imminent mishap.  To signify an evil, that is to say, to
show some sickness hardly curable, a kind of pestilentious or malignant boil, botch, or sore,
lying and lurking hid, occult, and latent within the very centre of the body, which many times
doth by the means of sleep, whose nature is to reinforce and strengthen the faculty and virtue
of concoction, being according to the theorems of physic to declare itself, and moves toward
the outward superficies.  At this sad stirring is the sleeper's rest and ease disturbed and
broken, whereof the first feeling and stinging smart admonisheth that he must patiently endure
great pain and trouble, and thereunto provide some remedy; as when we say proverbially, to
incense hornets, to move a stinking puddle, and to awake a sleeping lion, instead of these
more usual expressions, and of a more familiar and plain meaning, to provoke angry persons,
to make a thing the worse by meddling with it, and to irritate a testy choleric man when he
is at quiet.  On the other part, to presage or foretell an evil, especially in what concerneth
the exploits of the soul in matter of somnial divinations, is as much to say as that it giveth
us to understand that some dismal fortune or mischance is destinated and prepared for us, which
shortly will not fail to come to pass.  A clear and evident example hereof is to be found in
the dream and dreadful awaking of Hecuba, as likewise in that of Eurydice, the wife of Orpheus,
neither of which was (no) sooner finished, saith Ennius, but that incontinently thereafter
they awaked in a start, and were affrighted horribly.  Thereupon these accidents ensued:  Hecuba
had her husband Priamus, together with her children, slain before her eyes, and saw then the
destruction of her country; and Eurydice died speedily thereafter in a most miserable manner.
Aeneas, dreaming that he spoke to Hector a little after his decease, did on a sudden in a great
start awake, and was afraid.  Now hereupon did follow this event:  Troy that same night was
spoiled, sacked, and burnt.  At another time the same Aeneas dreaming that he saw his familiar
geniuses and penates, in a ghastly fright and astonishment awaked, of which terror and amazement
the issue was, that the very next day subsequent, by a most horrible tempest on the sea, he
was like to have perished and been cast away.  Moreover, Turnus being prompted, instigated,
and stirred up by the fantastic vision of an infernal fury to enter into a bloody war against
Aeneas, awaked in a start much troubled and disquieted in spirit; in sequel whereof, after
many notable and famous routs, defeats, and discomfitures in open field, he came at last to
be killed in a single combat by the said Aeneas.  A thousand other instances I could afford,
if it were needful, of this matter.  Whilst I relate these stories of Aeneas, remark the saying
of Fabius Pictor, who faithfully averred that nothing had at any time befallen unto, was done,
or enterprised by him, whereof he preallably had not notice, and beforehand foreseen it to
the full, by sure predictions altogether founded on the oracles of somnial divination.  To
this there is no want of pregnant reasons, no more than of examples.  For if repose and rest
in sleeping be a special gift and favour of the gods, as is maintained by the philosophers,
and by the poet attested in these lines,

  Then sleep, that heavenly gift, came to refresh
  Of human labourers the wearied flesh;

such a gift or benefit can never finish or terminate in wrath and indignation without portending
some unlucky fate and most disastrous fortune to ensue.  Otherwise it were a molestation, and
not an ease; a scourge, and not a gift; at least, (not) proceeding from the gods above, but
from the infernal devils our enemies, according to the common vulgar saying.

Suppose the lord, father, or master of a family, sitting at a very sumptuous dinner, furnished
with all manner of good cheer, and having at his entry to the table his appetite sharp set
upon his victuals, whereof there was great plenty, should be seen rise in a start, and on a
sudden fling out of his chair, abandoning his meat, frighted, appalled, and in a horrid terror,
who should not know the cause hereof would wonder, and be astonished exceedingly.  But what?
he heard his male servants cry, Fire, fire, fire, fire! his serving-maids and women yell, Stop
thief, stop thief! and all his children shout as loud as ever they could, Murder, O murder,
murder!  Then was it not high time for him to leave his banqueting, for application of a remedy
in haste, and to give speedy order for succouring of his distressed household?  Truly I remember
that the Cabalists and Massorets, interpreters of the sacred Scriptures, in treating how with
verity one might judge of evangelical apparitions (because oftentimes the angel of Satan is
disguised and transfigured into an angel of light), said that the difference of these two mainly
did consist in this:  the favourable and comforting angel useth in his appearing unto man at
first to terrify and hugely affright him, but in the end he bringeth consolation, leaveth the
person who hath seen him joyful, well-pleased, fully content, and satisfied; on the other side,
the angel of perdition, that wicked, devilish, and malignant spirit, at his appearance unto
any person in the beginning cheereth up the heart of his beholder, but at last forsakes him,
and leaves him troubled, angry, and perplexed.

Chapter 3.XV.

Panurge's excuse and exposition of the monastic mystery concerning powdered beef.

The Lord save those who see, and do not hear! quoth Panurge.  I see you well enough, but know
not what it is that you have said.  The hunger-starved belly wanteth ears.  For lack of victuals,
before God, I roar, bray, yell, and fume as in a furious madness.  I have performed too hard
a task to-day, an extraordinary work indeed.  He shall be craftier, and do far greater wonders
than ever did Mr. Mush, who shall be able any more this year to bring me on the stage of preparation
for a dreaming verdict. Fie! not to sup at all, that is the devil.  Pox take that fashion!
Come, Friar John, let us go break our fast; for, if I hit on such a round refection in the
morning as will serve thoroughly to fill the mill-hopper and hogs-hide of my stomach, and furnish
it with meat and drink sufficient, then at a pinch, as in the case of some extreme necessity
which presseth, I could make a shift that day to forbear dining.  But not to sup!  A plague
rot that base custom, which is an error offensive to Nature!  That lady made the day for exercise,
to travel, work, wait on and labour in each his negotiation and employment; and that we may
with the more fervency and ardour prosecute our business, she sets before us a clear burning
candle, to wit, the sun's resplendency; and at night, when she begins to take the light from
us, she thereby tacitly implies no less than if she would have spoken thus unto us:  My lads
and lasses, all of you are good and honest folks, you have wrought well to-day, toiled and
turmoiled enough,--the night approacheth,--therefore cast off these moiling cares of yours,
desist from all your swinking painful labours, and set your minds how to refresh your bodies
in the renewing of their vigour with good bread, choice wine, and store of wholesome meats;
then may you take some sport and recreation, and after that lie down and rest yourselves, that
you may strongly, nimbly, lustily, and with the more alacrity to-morrow attend on your affairs
as formerly.

Falconers, in like manner, when they have fed their hawks, will not suffer them to fly on a
full gorge, but let them on a perch abide a little, that they may rouse, bait, tower, and soar
the better.  That good pope who was the first institutor of fasting understood this well enough;
for he ordained that our fast should reach but to the hour of noon; all the remainder of that
day was at our disposure, freely to eat and feed at any time thereof.  In ancient times there
were but few that dined, as you would say, some church men, monks and canons; for they have
little other occupation.  Each day is a festival unto them, who diligently heed the claustral
proverb, De missa ad mensam.  They do not use to linger and defer their sitting down and placing
of themselves at table, only so long as they have a mind in waiting for the coming of the abbot;
so they fell to without ceremony, terms, or conditions; and everybody supped, unless it were
some vain, conceited, dreaming dotard.  Hence was a supper called coena, which showeth that
it is common to all sorts of people.  Thou knowest it well, Friar John.  Come, let us go, my
dear friend, in the name of all the devils of the infernal regions, let us go.  The gnawings
of my stomach in this rage of hunger are so tearing, that they make it bark like a mastiff.
Let us throw some bread and beef into his throat to pacify him, as once the sibyl did to Cerberus.
Thou likest best monastical brewis, the prime, the flower of the pot.  I am for the solid,
principal verb that comes after --the good brown loaf, always accompanied with a round slice
of the nine-lecture-powdered labourer.  I know thy meaning, answered Friar John; this metaphor
is extracted out of the claustral kettle.  The labourer is the ox that hath wrought and done
the labour; after the fashion of nine lectures, that is to say, most exquisitely well and thoroughly
boiled. These holy religious fathers, by a certain cabalistic institution of the ancients,
not written, but carefully by tradition conveyed from hand to hand, rising betimes to go to
morning prayers, were wont to flourish that their matutinal devotion with some certain notable
preambles before their entry into the church, viz., they dunged in the dungeries, pissed in
the pisseries, spit in the spitteries, melodiously coughed in the cougheries, and doted in
their dotaries, that to the divine service they might not bring anything that was unclean or
foul.  These things thus done, they very zealously made their repair to the Holy Chapel, for
so was in their canting language termed the convent kitchen, where they with no small earnestness
had care that the beef-pot should be put on the crook for the breakfast of the religious brothers
of our Lord and Saviour; and the fire they would kindle under the pot themselves.  Now, the
matins consisting of nine lessons, (it) it was so incumbent on them, that must have risen the
rather for the more expedite despatching of them all.  The sooner that they rose, the sharper
was their appetite and the barkings of their stomachs, and the gnawings increased in the like
proportion, and consequently made these godly men thrice more a-hungered and athirst than when
their matins were hemmed over only with three lessons.  The more betimes they rose, by the
said cabal, the sooner was the beef-pot put on; the longer that the beef was on the fire, the
better it was boiled; the more it boiled, it was the tenderer; the tenderer that it was, the
less it troubled the teeth, delighted more the palate, less charged the stomach, and nourished
our good religious men the more substantially; which is the only end and prime intention of
the first founders, as appears by this, that they eat not to live, but live to eat, and in
this world have nothing but their life.  Let us go, Panurge.

Now have I understood thee, quoth Panurge, my plushcod friar, my caballine and claustral ballock.
I freely quit the costs, interest, and charges, seeing you have so egregiously commented upon
the most especial chapter of the culinary and monastic cabal.  Come along, my Carpalin, and
you, Friar John, my leather-dresser.  Good morrow to you all, my good lords; I have dreamed
too much to have so little.  Let us go.  Panurge had no sooner done speaking than Epistemon
with a loud voice said these words:  It is a very ordinary and common thing amongst men to
conceive, foresee, know, and presage the misfortune, bad luck, or disaster of another; but
to have the understanding, providence, knowledge, and prediction of a man's own mishap is very
scarce and rare to be found anywhere.  This is exceeding judiciously and prudently deciphered
by Aesop in his Apologues, who there affirmeth that every man in the world carrieth about his
neck a wallet, in the fore-bag whereof were contained the faults and mischances of others always
exposed to his view and knowledge; and in the other scrip thereof, which hangs behind, are
kept the bearer's proper transgressions and inauspicious adventures, at no time seen by him,
nor thought upon, unless he be a person that hath a favourable aspect from the heavens.

Chapter 3.XVI.

How Pantagruel adviseth Panurge to consult with the Sibyl of Panzoust.

A little while thereafter Pantagruel sent for Panurge and said unto him, The affection which
I bear you being now inveterate and settled in my mind by a long continuance of time, prompteth
me to the serious consideration of your welfare and profit; in order whereto, remark what I
have thought thereon.  It hath been told me that at Panzoust, near Crouly, dwelleth a very
famous sibyl, who is endowed with the skill of foretelling all things to come.  Take Epistemon
in your company, repair towards her, and hear what she will say unto you.  She is possibly,
quoth Epistemon, some Canidia, Sagana, or Pythonissa, either whereof with us is vulgarly called
a witch, --I being the more easily induced to give credit to the truth of this character of
her, that the place of her abode is vilely stained with the abominable repute of abounding
more with sorcerers and witches than ever did the plains of Thessaly.  I should not, to my
thinking, go thither willingly, for that it seems to me a thing unwarrantable, and altogether
forbidden in the law of Moses.  We are not Jews, quoth Pantagruel, nor is it a matter judiciously
confessed by her, nor authentically proved by others that she is a witch.  Let us for the present
suspend our judgment, and defer till after your return from thence the sifting and garbling
of those niceties.  Do we know but that she may be an eleventh sibyl or a second Cassandra?
But although she were neither, and she did not merit the name or title of any of these renowned
prophetesses, what hazard, in the name of God, do you run by offering to talk and confer with
her of the instant perplexity and perturbation of your thoughts?  Seeing especially, and which
is most of all, she is, in the estimation of those that are acquainted with her, held to know
more, and to be of a deeper reach of understanding, than is either customary to the country
wherein she liveth or to the sex whereof she is.  You may remember to have read, or heard at
least, that Alexander the Great, immediately after his having obtained a glorious victory over
the King Darius in Arbela, refused, in the presence of the splendid and illustrious courtiers
that were about him, to give audience to a poor certain despicable-like fellow, who through
the solicitations and mediation of some of his royal attendants was admitted humbly to beg
that grace and favour of him.  But sore did he repent, although in vain, a thousand and ten
thousand times thereafter, the surly state which he then took upon him to the denial of so
just a suit, the grant whereof would have been worth unto him the value of a brace of potent
cities.  He was indeed victorious in Persia, but withal so far distant from Macedonia, his
hereditary kingdom, that the joy of the one did not expel the extreme grief which through occasion
of the other he had inwardly conceived; for, not being able with all his power to find or invent
a convenient mean and expedient how to get or come by the certainty of any news from thence,
both by reason of the huge remoteness of the places from one to another, as also because of
the impeditive interposition of many great rivers, the interjacent obstacle of divers wild
deserts, and obstructive interjection of sundry almost inaccessible mountains,--whilst he was
in this sad quandary and solicitous pensiveness, which, you may suppose, could not be of a
small vexation to him, considering that it was a matter of no great difficulty to run over
his whole native soil, possess his country, seize on his kingdom, install a new king in the
throne, and plant thereon foreign colonies, long before he could come to have any advertisement
of it:  for obviating the jeopardy of so dreadful inconveniency, and putting a fit remedy thereto,
a certain Sidonian merchant of a low stature but high fancy, very poor in show, and to the
outward appearance of little or no account, having presented himself before him, went about
to affirm and declare that he had excogitated and hit upon a ready mean and way by the which
those of his territories at home should come to the certain notice of his Indian victories,
and himself be perfectly informed of the state and condition of Egypt and Macedonia within
less than five days.  Whereupon the said Alexander, plunged into a sullen animadvertency of
mind, through his rash opinion of the improbability of performing a so strange and impossible-like
undertaking, dismissed the merchant without giving ear to what he had to say, and vilified
him.  What could it have cost him to hearken unto what the honest man had invented and contrived
for his good?  What detriment, annoyance, damage, or loss could he have undergone to listen
to the discovery of that secret which the good fellow would have most willingly revealed unto
him?  Nature, I am persuaded, did not without a cause frame our ears open, putting thereto
no gate at all, nor shutting them up with any manner of enclosures, as she hath done unto the
tongue, the eyes, and other such out-jetting parts of the body.  The cause, as I imagine, is
to the end that every day and every night, and that continually, we may be ready to hear, and
by a perpetual hearing apt to learn.  For, of all the senses, it is the fittest for the reception
of the knowledge of arts, sciences, and disciplines; and it may be that man was an angel, that
is to say, a messenger sent from God, as Raphael was to Tobit.  Too suddenly did he contemn,
despise, and misregard him; but too long thereafter, by an untimely and too late repentance,
did he do penance for it.  You say very well, answered Epistemon, yet shall you never for all
that induce me to believe that it can tend any way to the advantage or commodity of a man to
take advice and counsel of a woman, namely, of such a woman, and the woman of such a country.
Truly I have found, quoth Panurge, a great deal of good in the counsel of women, chiefly in
that of the old wives amongst them; for every time I consult with them I readily get a stool
or two extraordinary, to the great solace of my bumgut passage.  They are as sleuthhounds in
the infallibility of their scent, and in their sayings no less sententious than the rubrics
of the law. Therefore in my conceit it is not an improper kind of speech to call them sage
or wise women.  In confirmation of which opinion of mine, the customary style of my language
alloweth them the denomination of presage women.  The epithet of sage is due unto them because
they are surpassing dexterous in the knowledge of most things.  And I give them the title of
presage, for that they divinely foresee and certainly foretell future contingencies and events
of things to come.  Sometimes I call them not maunettes, but monettes, from their wholesome
monitions.  Whether it be so, ask Pythagoras, Socrates, Empedocles, and our master Ortuinus.
I furthermore praise and commend above the skies the ancient memorable institution of the pristine
Germans, who ordained the responses and documents of old women to be highly extolled, most
cordially reverenced, and prized at a rate in nothing inferior to the weight, test, and standard
of the sanctuary.  And as they were respectfully prudent in receiving of these sound advices,
so by honouring and following them did they prove no less fortunate in the happy success of
all their endeavours.  Witness the old wife Aurinia, and the good mother Velled, in the days
of Vespasian. You need not any way doubt but that feminine old age is always fructifying in
qualities sublime--I would have said sibylline.  Let us go, by the help, let us go, by the
virtue of God, let us go.  Farewell, Friar John, I recommend the care of my codpiece to you.
Well, quoth Epistemon, I will follow you, with this protestation nevertheless, that if I happen
to get a sure information, or otherwise find that she doth use any kind of charm or enchantment
in her responses, it may not be imputed to me for a blame to leave you at the gate of her house,
without accompanying you any further in.

Chapter 3.XVII.

How Panurge spoke to the Sibyl of Panzoust.

Their voyage was three days journeying.  On the third whereof was shown unto them the house
of the vaticinatress standing on the knap or top of a hill, under a large and spacious walnut-tree.
Without great difficulty they entered into that straw-thatched cottage, scurvily built, naughtily
movabled, and all besmoked.  It matters not, quoth Epistemon; Heraclitus, the grand Scotist
and tenebrous darksome philosopher, was nothing astonished at his introit into such a coarse
and paltry habitation; for he did usually show forth unto his sectators and disciples that
the gods made as cheerfully their residence in these mean homely mansions as in sumptuous magnific
palaces, replenished with all manner of delight, pomp, and pleasure.  I withal do really believe
that the dwelling-place of the so famous and renowned Hecate was just such another petty cell
as this is, when she made a feast therein to the valiant Theseus; and that of no other better
structure was the cot or cabin of Hyreus, or Oenopion, wherein Jupiter, Neptune, and Mercury
were not ashamed, all three together, to harbour and sojourn a whole night, and there to take
a full and hearty repast; for the payment of the shot they thankfully pissed Orion.  They finding
the ancient woman at a corner of her own chimney, Epistemon said, She is indeed a true sibyl,
and the lively portrait of one represented by the Grei kaminoi of Homer.  The old hag was in
a pitiful bad plight and condition in matter of the outward state and complexion of her body,
the ragged and tattered equipage of her person in the point of accoutrement, and beggarly poor
provision of fare for her diet and entertainment; for she was ill apparelled, worse nourished,
toothless, blear-eyed, crook-shouldered, snotty, her nose still dropping, and herself still
drooping, faint, and pithless; whilst in this woefully wretched case she was making ready for
her dinner porridge of wrinkled green coleworts, with a bit skin of yellow bacon, mixed with
a twice-before-cooked sort of waterish, unsavoury broth, extracted out of bare and hollow bones.
Epistemon said, By the cross of a groat, we are to blame, nor shall we get from her any response
at all, for we have not brought along with us the branch of gold. I have, quoth Panurge, provided
pretty well for that, for here I have it within my bag, in the substance of a gold ring, accompanied
with some fair pieces of small money.  No sooner were these words spoken, when Panurge coming
up towards her, after the ceremonial performance of a profound and humble salutation, presented
her with six neat's tongues dried in the smoke, a great butter-pot full of fresh cheese, a
borachio furnished with good beverage, and a ram's cod stored with single pence, newly coined.
At last he, with a low courtesy, put on her medical finger a pretty handsome golden ring, whereinto
was right artificially enchased a precious toadstone of Beausse.  This done, in few words and
very succinctly, did he set open and expose unto her the motive reason of his coming, most
civilly and courteously entreating her that she might be pleased to vouchsafe to give him an
ample and plenary intelligence concerning the future good luck of his intended marriage.

The old trot for a while remained silent, pensive, and grinning like a dog; then, after she
had set her withered breech upon the bottom of a bushel, she took into her hands three old
spindles, which when she had turned and whirled betwixt her fingers very diversely and after
several fashions, she pried more narrowly into, by the trial of their points, the sharpest
whereof she retained in her hand, and threw the other two under a stone trough.  After this
she took a pair of yarn windles, which she nine times unintermittedly veered and frisked about;
then at the ninth revolution or turn, without touching them any more, maturely perpending the
manner of their motion, she very demurely waited on their repose and cessation from any further
stirring.  In sequel whereof she pulled off one of her wooden pattens, put her apron over her
head, as a priest uses to do his amice when he is going to sing mass, and with a kind of antique,
gaudy, party-coloured string knit it under her neck.  Being thus covered and muffled, she whiffed
off a lusty good draught out of the borachio, took three several pence forth of the ramcod
fob, put them into so many walnut-shells, which she set down upon the bottom of a feather-pot,
and then, after she had given them three whisks of a broom besom athwart the chimney, casting
into the fire half a bavin of long heather, together with a branch of dry laurel, she observed
with a very hush and coy silence in what form they did burn, and saw that, although they were
in a flame, they made no kind of noise or crackling din.  Hereupon she gave a most hideous
and horribly dreadful shout, muttering betwixt her teeth some few barbarous words of a strange
termination.

This so terrified Panurge that he forthwith said to Epistemon, The devil mince me into a gallimaufry
if I do not tremble for fear!  I do not think but that I am now enchanted; for she uttereth
not her voice in the terms of any Christian language.  O look, I pray you, how she seemeth
unto me to be by three full spans higher than she was when she began to hood herself with her
apron.  What meaneth this restless wagging of her slouchy chaps?  What can be the signification
of the uneven shrugging of her hulchy shoulders? To what end doth she quaver with her lips,
like a monkey in the dismembering of a lobster?  My ears through horror glow; ah! how they
tingle!  I think I hear the shrieking of Proserpina; the devils are breaking loose to be all
here.  O the foul, ugly, and deformed beasts!  Let us run away!  By the hook of God, I am like
to die for fear!  I do not love the devils; they vex me, and are unpleasant fellows.  Now let
us fly, and betake us to our heels.  Farewell, gammer; thanks and gramercy for your goods!
I will not marry; no, believe me, I will not.  I fairly quit my interest therein, and totally
abandon and renounce it from this time forward, even as much as at present.  With this, as
he endeavoured to make an escape out of the room, the old crone did anticipate his flight and
make him stop.  The way how she prevented him was this:  whilst in her hand she held the spindle,
she flung out to a back-yard close by her lodge, where, after she had peeled off the barks
of an old sycamore three several times, she very summarily, upon eight leaves which dropped
from thence, wrote with the spindle-point some curt and briefly-couched verses, which she threw
into the air, then said unto them, Search after them if you will; find them if you can; the
fatal destinies of your marriage are written in them.

No sooner had she done thus speaking than she did withdraw herself unto her lurking-hole, where
on the upper seat of the porch she tucked up her gown, her coats, and smock, as high as her
armpits, and gave them a full inspection of the nockandroe; which being perceived by Panurge,
he said to Epistemon, God's bodikins, I see the sibyl's hole!  She suddenly then bolted the
gate behind her, and was never since seen any more.  They jointly ran in haste after the fallen
and dispersed leaves, and gathered them at last, though not without great labour and toil,
for the wind had scattered them amongst the thorn-bushes of the valley.  When they had ranged
them each after other in their due places, they found out their sentence, as it is metrified
in this octastich:

  Thy fame upheld
  (Properly, as corrected by Ozell:
  Thy fame will be shell'd
    By her, I trow.),
    Even so, so:
  And she with child
    Of thee:  No.
  Thy good end
    Suck she shall,
  And flay thee, friend,
    But not all.

Chapter 3.XVIII.

How Pantagruel and Panurge did diversely expound the verses of the Sibyl of Panzoust.

The leaves being thus collected and orderly disposed, Epistemon and Panurge returned to Pantagruel's
court, partly well pleased and other part discontented; glad for their being come back, and
vexed for the trouble they had sustained by the way, which they found to be craggy, rugged,
stony, rough, and ill-adjusted.  They made an ample and full relation of their voyage unto
Pantagruel, as likewise of the estate and condition of the sibyl.  Then, having presented to
him the leaves of the sycamore, they show him the short and twattle verses that were written
in them. Pantagruel, having read and considered the whole sum and substance of the matter,
fetched from his heart a deep and heavy sigh; then said to Panurge, You are now, forsooth,
in a good taking, and have brought your hogs to a fine market.  The prophecy of the sibyl doth
explain and lay out before us the same very predictions which have been denoted, foretold,
and presaged to us by the decree of the Virgilian lots and the verdict of your own proper dreams,
to wit, that you shall be very much disgraced, shamed, and discredited by your wife; for that
she will make you a cuckold in prostituting herself to others, being big with child by another
than you, --will steal from you a great deal of your goods, and will beat you, scratch and
bruise you, even to plucking the skin in a part from off you,--will leave the print of her
blows in some member of your body.  You understand as much, answered Panurge, in the veritable
interpretation and expounding of recent prophecies as a sow in the matter of spicery.  Be not
offended, sir, I beseech you, that I speak thus boldly; for I find myself a little in choler,
and that not without cause, seeing it is the contrary that is true. Take heed, and give attentive
ear unto my words.  The old wife said that, as the bean is not seen till first it be unhusked,
and that its swad or hull be shelled and peeled from off it, so is it that my virtue and transcendent
worth will never come by the mouth of fame to be blazed abroad proportionable to the height,
extent, and measure of the excellency thereof, until preallably I get a wife and make the full
half of a married couple.  How many times have I heard you say that the function of a magistrate,
or office of dignity, discovereth the merits, parts, and endowments of the person so advanced
and promoted, and what is in him. That is to say, we are then best able to judge aright of
the deservings of a man when he is called to the management of affairs; for when before he
lived in a private condition, we could have no more certain knowledge of him than of a bean
within his husk.  And thus stands the first article explained; otherwise, could you imagine
that the good fame, repute, and estimation of an honest man should depend upon the tail of a whore?

Now to the meaning of the second article!  My wife will be with child, --here lies the prime
felicity of marriage,--but not of me.  Copsody, that I do believe indeed!  It will be of a
pretty little infant.  O how heartily I shall love it!  I do already dote upon it; for it will
be my dainty feedle- darling, my genteel dilly-minion.  From thenceforth no vexation, care,
or grief shall take such deep impression in my heart, how hugely great or vehement soever it
otherwise appear, but that it shall evanish forthwith at the sight of that my future babe,
and at the hearing of the chat and prating of its childish gibberish.  And blessed be the old
wife.  By my truly, I have a mind to settle some good revenue or pension upon her out of the
readiest increase of the lands of my Salmigondinois; not an inconstant and uncertain rent-seek,
like that of witless, giddy-headed bachelors, but sure and fixed, of the nature of the well-paid
incomes of regenting doctors.  If this interpretation doth not please you, think you my wife
will bear me in her flanks, conceive with me, and be of me delivered, as women use in childbed
to bring forth their young ones; so as that it may be said, Panurge is a second Bacchus, he
hath been twice born; he is re-born, as was Hippolytus,--as was Proteus, one time of Thetis,
and secondly, of the mother of the philosopher Apollonius,--as were the two Palici, near the
flood Simaethos in Sicily.  His wife was big of child with him.  In him is renewed and begun
again the palintocy of the Megarians and the palingenesy of Democritus.  Fie upon such errors!
To hear stuff of that nature rends mine ears.

The words of the third article are:  She will suck me at my best end.  Why not?  That pleaseth
me right well.  You know the thing; I need not tell you that it is my intercrural pudding with
one end.  I swear and promise that, in what I can, I will preserve it sappy, full of juice,
and as well victualled for her use as may be.  She shall not suck me, I believe, in vain, nor
be destitute of her allowance; there shall her justum both in peck and lippy be furnished to
the full eternally.  You expound this passage allegorically, and interpret it to theft and
larceny.  I love the exposition, and the allegory pleaseth me; but not according to the sense
whereto you stretch it.  It may be that the sincerity of the affection which you bear me moveth
you to harbour in your breast those refractory thoughts concerning me, with a suspicion of
my adversity to come.  We have this saying from the learned, That a marvellously fearful thing
is love, and that true love is never without fear.  But, sir, according to my judgment, you
do understand both of and by yourself that here stealth signifieth nothing else, no more than
in a thousand other places of Greek and Latin, old and modern writings, but the sweet fruits
of amorous dalliance, which Venus liketh best when reaped in secret, and culled by fervent
lovers filchingly.  Why so, I prithee tell?  Because, when the feat of the loose-coat skirmish
happeneth to be done underhand and privily, between two well-disposed, athwart the steps of
a pair of stairs lurkingly, and in covert behind a suit of hangings, or close hid and trussed
upon an unbound faggot, it is more pleasing to the Cyprian goddess, and to me also --I speak
this without prejudice to any better or more sound opinion--than to perform that culbusting
art after the Cynic manner, in the view of the clear sunshine, or in a rich tent, under a precious
stately canopy, within a glorious and sublime pavilion, or yet on a soft couch betwixt rich
curtains of cloth of gold, without affrightment, at long intermediate respites, enjoying of
pleasures and delights a bellyfull, at all great ease, with a huge fly-flap fan of crimson
satin and a bunch of feathers of some East-Indian ostrich serving to give chase unto the flies
all round about; whilst, in the interim, the female picks her teeth with a stiff straw picked
even then from out of the bottom of the bed she lies on.  If you be not content with this my
exposition, are you of the mind that my wife will suck and sup me up as people use to gulp
and swallow oysters out of the shell? or as the Cilician women, according to the testimony
of Dioscorides, were wont to do the grain of alkermes?  Assuredly that is an error.  Who seizeth
on it, doth neither gulch up nor swill down, but takes away what hath been packed up, catcheth,
snatcheth, and plies the play of hey-pass, repass.

The fourth article doth imply that my wife will flay me, but not all.  O the fine word!  You
interpret this to beating strokes and blows.  Speak wisely.  Will you eat a pudding?  Sir,
I beseech you to raise up your spirits above the low-sized pitch of earthly thoughts unto that
height of sublime contemplation which reacheth to the apprehension of the mysteries and wonders
of Dame Nature.  And here be pleased to condemn yourself, by a renouncing of those errors which
you have committed very grossly and somewhat perversely in expounding the prophetic sayings
of the holy sibyl. Yet put the case (albeit I yield not to it) that, by the instigation of
the devil, my wife should go about to wrong me, make me a cuckold downwards to the very breech,
disgrace me otherwise, steal my goods from me, yea, and lay violently her hands upon me;--she
nevertheless should fail of her attempts and not attain to the proposed end of her unreasonable
undertakings.  The reason which induceth me hereto is grounded totally on this last point,
which is extracted from the profoundest privacies of a monastic pantheology, as good Friar
Arthur Wagtail told me once upon a Monday morning, as we were (if I have not forgot) eating
a bushel of trotter-pies; and I remember well it rained hard.  God give him the good morrow!
The women at the beginning of the world, or a little after, conspired to flay the men quick,
because they found the spirit of mankind inclined to domineer it, and bear rule over them upon
the face of the whole earth; and, in pursuit of this their resolution, promised, confirmed,
swore, and covenanted amongst them all, by the pure faith they owe to the nocturnal Sanct Rogero.
But O the vain enterprises of women!  O the great fragility of that sex feminine!  They did
begin to flay the man, or peel him (as says Catullus), at that member which of all the body
they loved best, to wit, the nervous and cavernous cane, and that above five thousand years
ago; yet have they not of that small part alone flayed any more till this hour but the head.
In mere despite whereof the Jews snip off that parcel of the skin in circumcision, choosing
far rather to be called clipyards, rascals, than to be flayed by women, as are other nations.
My wife, according to this female covenant, will flay it to me, if it be not so already.  I
heartily grant my consent thereto, but will not give her leave to flay it all.  Nay, truly
will I not, my noble king.

Yea but, quoth Epistemon, you say nothing of her most dreadful cries and exclamations when
she and we both saw the laurel-bough burn without yielding any noise or crackling.  You know
it is a very dismal omen, an inauspicious sign, unlucky indice, and token formidable, bad,
disastrous, and most unhappy, as is certified by Propertius, Tibullus, the quick philosopher
Porphyrius, Eustathius on the Iliads of Homer, and by many others.  Verily, verily, quoth Panurge,
brave are the allegations which you bring me, and testimonies of two-footed calves.  These
men were fools, as they were poets; and dotards, as they were philosophers; full of folly,
as they were of philosophy.

Chapter 3.XIX.

How Pantagruel praiseth the counsel of dumb men.

Pantagruel, when this discourse was ended, held for a pretty while his peace, seeming to be
exceeding sad and pensive, then said to Panurge, The malignant spirit misleads, beguileth,
and seduceth you.  I have read that in times past the surest and most veritable oracles were
not those which either were delivered in writing or uttered by word of mouth in speaking. For
many times, in their interpretation, right witty, learned, and ingenious men have been deceived
through amphibologies, equivoques, and obscurity of words, no less than by the brevity of their
sentences.  For which cause Apollo, the god of vaticination, was surnamed Loxias.  Those which
were represented then by signs and outward gestures were accounted the truest and the most
infallible.  Such was the opinion of Heraclitus. And Jupiter did himself in this manner give
forth in Ammon frequently predictions.  Nor was he single in this practice; for Apollo did
the like amongst the Assyrians.  His prophesying thus unto those people moved them to paint
him with a large long beard, and clothes beseeming an old settled person of a most posed, staid,
and grave behaviour; not naked, young, and beardless, as he was portrayed most usually amongst
the Grecians.  Let us make trial of this kind of fatidicency; and go you take advice of some
dumb person without any speaking.  I am content, quoth Panurge.  But, says Pantagruel, it were
requisite that the dumb you consult with be such as have been deaf from the hour of their nativity,
and consequently dumb; for none can be so lively, natural, and kindly dumb as he who never heard.

How is it, quoth Panurge, that you conceive this matter?  If you apprehend it so, that never
any spoke who had not before heard the speech of others, I will from that antecedent bring
you to infer very logically a most absurd and paradoxical conclusion.  But let it pass; I will
not insist on it.  You do not then believe what Herodotus wrote of two children, who, at the
special command and appointment of Psammeticus, King of Egypt, having been kept in a petty
country cottage, where they were nourished and entertained in a perpetual silence, did at last,
after a certain long space of time, pronounce this word Bec, which in the Phrygian language
signifieth bread. Nothing less, quoth Pantagruel, do I believe than that it is a mere abusing
of our understandings to give credit to the words of those who say that there is any such thing
as a natural language.  All speeches have had their primary origin from the arbitrary institutions,
accords, and agreements of nations in their respective condescendments to what should be noted
and betokened by them.  An articulate voice, according to the dialecticians, hath naturally
no signification at all; for that the sense and meaning thereof did totally depend upon the
good will and pleasure of the first deviser and imposer of it.  I do not tell you this without
a cause; for Bartholus, Lib. 5. de Verb. Oblig., very seriously reporteth that even in his
time there was in Eugubia one named Sir Nello de Gabrielis, who, although he by a sad mischance
became altogether deaf, understood nevertheless everyone that talked in the Italian dialect
howsoever he expressed himself; and that only by looking on his external gestures, and casting
an attentive eye upon the divers motions of his lips and chaps.  I have read, I remember also,
in a very literate and eloquent author, that Tyridates, King of Armenia, in the days of Nero,
made a voyage to Rome, where he was received with great honour and solemnity, and with all
manner of pomp and magnificence.  Yea, to the end there might be a sempiternal amity and correspondence
preserved betwixt him and the Roman senate, there was no remarkable thing in the whole city
which was not shown unto him.  At his departure the emperor bestowed upon him many ample donatives
of an inestimable value; and besides, the more entirely to testify his affection towards him,
heartily entreated him to be pleased to make choice of any whatsoever thing in Rome was most
agreeable to his fancy, with a promise juramentally confirmed that he should not be refused
of his demand. Thereupon, after a suitable return of thanks for a so gracious offer, he required
a certain Jack-pudding whom he had seen to act his part most egregiously upon the stage, and
whose meaning, albeit he knew not what it was he had spoken, he understood perfectly enough
by the signs and gesticulations which he had made.  And for this suit of his, in that he asked
nothing else, he gave this reason, that in the several wide and spacious dominions which were
reduced under the sway and authority of his sovereign government, there were sundry countries
and nations much differing from one another in language, with whom, whether he was to speak
unto them or give any answer to their requests, he was always necessitated to make use of divers
sorts of truchman and interpreters.  Now with this man alone, sufficient for supplying all
their places, will that great inconveniency hereafter be totally removed; seeing he is such
a fine gesticulator, and in the practice of chirology an artist so complete, expert, and dexterous,
that with his very fingers he doth speak. Howsoever, you are to pitch upon such a dumb one
as is deaf by nature and from his birth; to the end that his gestures and signs may be the
more vively and truly prophetic, and not counterfeit by the intermixture of some adulterate
lustre and affectation.  Yet whether this dumb person shall be of the male or female sex is
in your option, lieth at your discretion, and altogether dependeth on your own election.

I would more willingly, quoth Panurge, consult with and be advised by a dumb woman, were it
not that I am afraid of two things.  The first is, that the greater part of women, whatever
be that they see, do always represent unto their fancies, think, and imagine, that it hath
some relation to the sugared entering of the goodly ithyphallos, and graffing in the cleft
of the overturned tree the quickset imp of the pin of copulation.  Whatever signs, shows, or
gestures we shall make, or whatever our behaviour, carriage, or demeanour shall happen to be
in their view and presence, they will interpret the whole in reference to the act of androgynation
and the culbutizing exercise, by which means we shall be abusively disappointed of our designs,
in regard that she will take all our signs for nothing else but tokens and representations
of our desire to entice her unto the lists of a Cyprian combat or catsenconny skirmish.  Do
you remember what happened at Rome two hundred and threescore years after the foundation thereof?
A young Roman gentleman encountering by chance, at the foot of Mount Celion, with a beautiful
Latin lady named Verona, who from her very cradle upwards had always been both deaf and dumb,
very civilly asked her, not without a chironomatic Italianizing of his demand, with various
jectigation of his fingers and other gesticulations as yet customary amongst the speakers of
that country, what senators in her descent from the top of the hill she had met with going
up thither.  For you are to conceive that he, knowing no more of her deafness than dumbness,
was ignorant of both.  She in the meantime, who neither heard nor understood so much as one
word of what he had said, straight imagined, by all that she could apprehend in the lovely
gesture of his manual signs, that what he then required of her was what herself had a great
mind to, even that which a young man doth naturally desire of a woman.  Then was it that by
signs, which in all occurrences of venereal love are incomparably more attractive, valid, and
efficacious than words, she beckoned to him to come along with her to her house; which when
he had done, she drew him aside to a privy room, and then made a most lively alluring sign
unto him to show that the game did please her. Whereupon, without any more advertisement, or
so much as the uttering of one word on either side, they fell to and bringuardized it lustily.

The other cause of my being averse from consulting with dumb women is, that to our signs they
would make no answer at all, but suddenly fall backwards in a divarication posture, to intimate
thereby unto us the reality of their consent to the supposed motion of our tacit demands. 
Or if they should chance to make any countersigns responsory to our propositions, they would
prove so foolish, impertinent, and ridiculous, that by them ourselves should easily judge their
thoughts to have no excursion beyond the duffling academy.  You know very well how at Brignoles,
when the religious nun, Sister Fatbum, was made big with child by the young Stiffly-stand-to't,
her pregnancy came to be known, and she cited by the abbess, and, in a full convention of the
convent, accused of incest.  Her excuse was that she did not consent thereto, but that it was
done by the violence and impetuous force of the Friar Stiffly-stand-to't.  Hereto the abbess
very austerely replying, Thou naughty wicked girl, why didst thou not cry, A rape, a rape!
then should all of us have run to thy succour.  Her answer was that the rape was committed
in the dortour, where she durst not cry because it was a place of sempiternal silence.  But,
quoth the abbess, thou roguish wench, why didst not thou then make some sign to those that
were in the next chamber beside thee?  To this she answered that with her buttocks she made
a sign unto them as vigorously as she could, yet never one of them did so much as offer to
come to her help and assistance.  But, quoth the abbess, thou scurvy baggage, why didst thou
not tell it me immediately after the perpetration of the fact, that so we might orderly, regularly,
and canonically have accused him?  I would have done so, had the case been mine, for the clearer
manifestation of mine innocency.  I truly, madam, would have done the like with all my heart
and soul, quoth Sister Fatbum, but that fearing I should remain in sin, and in the hazard of
eternal damnation, if prevented by a sudden death, I did confess myself to the father friar
before he went out of the room, who, for my penance, enjoined me not to tell it, or reveal
the matter unto any.  It were a most enormous and horrid offence, detestable before God and
the angels, to reveal a confession.  Such an abominable wickedness would have possibly brought
down fire from heaven, wherewith to have burnt the whole nunnery, and sent us all headlong
to the bottomless pit, to bear company with Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.

You will not, quoth Pantagruel, with all your jesting, make me laugh.  I know that all the
monks, friars, and nuns had rather violate and infringe the highest of the commandments of
God than break the least of their provincial statutes.  Take you therefore Goatsnose, a man
very fit for your present purpose; for he is, and hath been, both dumb and deaf from the very
remotest infancy of his childhood.

Chapter 3.XX.

How Goatsnose by signs maketh answer to Panurge.

Goatsnose being sent for, came the day thereafter to Pantagruel's court; at his arrival to
which Panurge gave him a fat calf, the half of a hog, two puncheons of wine, one load of corn,
and thirty francs of small money; then, having brought him before Pantagruel, in presence of
the gentlemen of the bed-chamber he made this sign unto him.  He yawned a long time, and in
yawning made without his mouth with the thumb of his right hand the figure of the Greek letter
Tau by frequent reiterations.  Afterwards he lifted up his eyes to heavenwards, then turned
them in his head like a she-goat in the painful fit of an absolute birth, in doing whereof
he did cough and sigh exceeding heavily.  This done, after that he had made demonstration of
the want of his codpiece, he from under his shirt took his placket-racket in a full grip, making
it therewithal clack very melodiously betwixt his thighs; then, no sooner had he with his body
stooped a little forwards, and bowed his left knee, but that immediately thereupon holding
both his arms on his breast, in a loose faint-like posture, the one over the other, he paused
awhile.  Goatsnose looked wistly upon him, and having heedfully enough viewed him all over,
he lifted up into the air his left hand, the whole fingers whereof he retained fistwise close
together, except the thumb and the forefinger, whose nails he softly joined and coupled to
one another.  I understand, quoth Pantagruel, what he meaneth by that sign.  It denotes marriage,
and withal the number thirty, according to the profession of the Pythagoreans.  You will be
married.  Thanks to you, quoth Panurge, in turning himself towards Goatsnose, my little sewer,
pretty master's mate, dainty bailie, curious sergeant-marshal, and jolly catchpole-leader.
Then did he lift higher up than before his said left hand, stretching out all the five fingers
thereof, and severing them as wide from one another as he possibly could get done.  Here, says
Pantagruel, doth he more amply and fully insinuate unto us, by the token which he showeth forth
of the quinary number, that you shall be married.  Yea, that you shall not only be affianced,
betrothed, wedded, and married, but that you shall furthermore cohabit and live jollily and
merrily with your wife; for Pythagoras called five the nuptial number, which, together with
marriage, signifieth the consummation of matrimony, because it is composed of a ternary, the
first of the odd, and binary, the first of the even numbers, as of a male and female knit and
united together.  In very deed it was the fashion of old in the city of Rome at marriage festivals
to light five wax tapers; nor was it permitted to kindle any more at the magnific nuptials
of the most potent and wealthy, nor yet any fewer at the penurious weddings of the poorest
and most abject of the world.  Moreover, in times past, the heathen or paynims implored the
assistance of five deities, or of one helpful, at least, in five several good offices to those
that were to be married.  Of this sort were the nuptial Jove, Juno, president of the feast,
the fair Venus, Pitho, the goddess of eloquence and persuasion, and Diana, whose aid and succour
was required to the labour of child-bearing.  Then shouted Panurge, O the gentle Goatsnose,
I will give him a farm near Cinais, and a windmill hard by Mirebalais!  Hereupon the dumb fellow
sneezeth with an impetuous vehemency and huge concussion of the spirits of the whole body,
withdrawing himself in so doing with a jerking turn towards the left hand.  By the body of
a fox new slain, quoth Pantagruel, what is that?  This maketh nothing for your advantage; for
he betokeneth thereby that your marriage will be inauspicious and unfortunate.  This sneezing,
according to the doctrine of Terpsion, is the Socratic demon.  If done towards the right side,
it imports and portendeth that boldly and with all assurance one may go whither he will and
do what he listeth, according to what deliberation he shall be pleased to have thereupon taken;
his entries in the beginning, progress in his proceedings, and success in the events and issues
will be all lucky, good, and happy.  The quite contrary thereto is thereby implied and presaged
if it be done towards the left.  You, quoth Panurge, do take always the matter at the worst,
and continually, like another Davus, casteth in new disturbances and obstructions; nor ever
yet did I know this old paltry Terpsion worthy of citation but in points only of cosenage and
imposture.  Nevertheless, quoth Pantagruel, Cicero hath written I know not what to the same
purpose in his Second Book of Divination.

Panurge then, turning himself towards Goatsnose, made this sign unto him. He inverted his eyelids
upwards, wrenched his jaws from the right to the left side, and drew forth his tongue half
out of his mouth.  This done, he posited his left hand wholly open, the mid-finger wholly excepted,
which was perpendicularly placed upon the palm thereof, and set it just in the room where his
codpiece had been.  Then did he keep his right hand altogether shut up in a fist, save only
the thumb, which he straight turned backwards directly under the right armpit, and settled
it afterwards on that most eminent part of the buttocks which the Arabs call the Al-Katim.
Suddenly thereafter he made this interchange:  he held his right hand after the manner of the
left, and posited it on the place wherein his codpiece sometime was, and retaining his left
hand in the form and fashion of the right, he placed it upon his Al-Katim.  This altering of
hands did he reiterate nine several times; at the last whereof he reseated his eyelids into
their own first natural position.  Then doing the like also with his jaws and tongue, he did
cast a squinting look upon Goatsnose, diddering and shivering his chaps, as apes use to do
nowadays, and rabbits, whilst, almost starved with hunger, they are eating oats in the sheaf.

Then was it that Goatsnose, lifting up into the air his right hand wholly open and displayed,
put the thumb thereof, even close unto its first articulation, between the two third joints
of the middle and ring fingers, pressing about the said thumb thereof very hard with them both,
and, whilst the remanent joints were contracted and shrunk in towards the wrist, he stretched
forth with as much straightness as he could the fore and little fingers.  That hand thus framed
and disposed of he laid and posited upon Panurge's navel, moving withal continually the aforesaid
thumb, and bearing up, supporting, or under-propping that hand upon the above-specified fore
and little fingers, as upon two legs.  Thereafter did he make in this posture his hand by little
and little, and by degrees and pauses, successively to mount from athwart the belly to the
stomach, from whence he made it to ascend to the breast, even upwards to Panurge's neck, still
gaining ground, till, having reached his chin, he had put within the concave of his mouth his
afore-mentioned thumb; then fiercely brandishing the whole hand, which he made to rub and grate
against his nose, he heaved it further up, and made the fashion as if with the thumb thereof
he would have put out his eyes.  With this Panurge grew a little angry, and went about to withdraw
and rid himself from this ruggedly untoward dumb devil. But Goatsnose in the meantime, prosecuting
the intended purpose of his prognosticatory response, touched very rudely, with the above-mentioned
shaking thumb, now his eyes, then his forehead, and after that the borders and corners of his
cap.  At last Panurge cried out, saying, Before God, master fool, if you do not let me alone,
or that you will presume to vex me any more, you shall receive from the best hand I have a
mask wherewith to cover your rascally scroundrel face, you paltry shitten varlet.  Then said
Friar John, He is deaf, and doth not understand what thou sayest unto him. Bulliballock, make
sign to him of a hail of fisticuffs upon the muzzle.

What the devil, quoth Panurge, means this busy restless fellow?  What is it that this polypragmonetic
ardelion to all the fiends of hell doth aim at? He hath almost thrust out mine eyes, as if
he had been to poach them in a skillet with butter and eggs.  By God, da jurandi, I will feast
you with flirts and raps on the snout, interlarded with a double row of bobs and finger-fillipings!
Then did he leave him in giving him by way of salvo a volley of farts for his farewell.  Goatsnose,
perceiving Panurge thus to slip away from him, got before him, and, by mere strength enforcing
him to stand, made this sign unto him.  He let fall his right arm toward his knee on the same
side as low as he could, and, raising all the fingers of that hand into a close fist, passed
his dexter thumb betwixt the foremost and mid fingers thereto belonging.  Then scrubbing and
swingeing a little with his left hand alongst and upon the uppermost in the very bough of the
elbow of the said dexter arm, the whole cubit thereof, by leisure, fair and softly, at these
thumpatory warnings, did raise and elevate itself even to the elbow, and above it; on a sudden
did he then let it fall down as low as before, and after that, at certain intervals and such
spaces of time, raising and abasing it, he made a show thereof to Panurge.  This so incensed
Panurge that he forthwith lifted his hand to have stricken him the dumb roister and given him
a sound whirret on the ear, but that the respect and reverence which he carried to the presence
of Pantagruel restrained his choler and kept his fury within bounds and limits.  Then said
Pantagruel, If the bare signs now vex and trouble you, how much more grievously will you be
perplexed and disquieted with the real things which by them are represented and signified!
All truths agree and are consonant with one another.  This dumb fellow prophesieth and foretelleth
that you will be married, cuckolded, beaten, and robbed.  As for the marriage, quoth Panurge,
I yield thereto, and acknowledge the verity of that point of his prediction; as for the rest,
I utterly abjure and deny it:  and believe, sir, I beseech you, if it may please you so to
do, that in the matter of wives and horses never any man was predestinated to a better fortune
than I.

Chapter 3.XXI.

How Panurge consulteth with an old French poet, named Raminagrobis.

I never thought, said Pantagruel, to have encountered with any man so headstrong in his apprehensions,
or in his opinions so wilful, as I have found you to be and see you are.  Nevertheless, the
better to clear and extricate your doubts, let us try all courses, and leave no stone unturned
nor wind unsailed by.  Take good heed to what I am to say unto you.  The swans, which are fowls
consecrated to Apollo, never chant but in the hour of their approaching death, especially in
the Meander flood, which is a river that runneth along some of the territories of Phrygia.
This I say, because Aelianus and Alexander Myndius write that they had seen several swans in
other places die, but never heard any of them sing or chant before their death.  However, it
passeth for current that the imminent death of a swan is presaged by his foregoing song, and
that no swan dieth until preallably he have sung.

After the same manner, poets, who are under the protection of Apollo, when they are drawing
near their latter end do ordinarily become prophets, and by the inspiration of that god sing
sweetly in vaticinating things which are to come.  It hath been likewise told me frequently,
that old decrepit men upon the brinks of Charon's banks do usher their decease with a disclosure
all at ease, to those that are desirous of such informations, of the determinate and assured
truth of future accidents and contingencies.  I remember also that Aristophanes, in a certain
comedy of his, calleth the old folks Sibyls, Eith o geron Zibullia.  For as when, being upon
a pier by the shore, we see afar off mariners, seafaring men, and other travellers alongst
the curled waves of azure Thetis within their ships, we then consider them in silence only,
and seldom proceed any further than to wish them a happy and prosperous arrival; but when they
do approach near to the haven, and come to wet their keels within their harbour, then both
with words and  gestures we salute them, and heartily congratulate their access safe to the
port wherein we are ourselves.  Just so the angels, heroes, and good demons, according to the
doctrine of the Platonics, when they see mortals drawing near unto the harbour of the grave,
as the most sure and calmest port of any, full of repose, ease, rest, tranquillity, free from
the  troubles and solicitudes of this tumultuous and tempestuous world; then is  it that they
with alacrity hail and salute them, cherish and comfort them, and, speaking to them lovingly,
begin even then to bless them with illuminations, and to communicate unto them the abstrusest
mysteries of divination.  I will not offer here to confound your memory by quoting antique
examples of Isaac, of Jacob, of Patroclus towards Hector, of Hector towards Achilles, of Polymnestor
towards Agamemnon, of Hecuba, of the Rhodian renowned by Posidonius, of Calanus the Indian
towards Alexander the Great, of Orodes towards Mezentius, and of many others.  It shall suffice
for the present that I commemorate unto you the learned and valiant knight and cavalier William
of Bellay, late Lord of Langey, who died on the Hill of Tarara, the 10th of January, in the
climacteric year of his age, and of our supputation 1543, according to the Roman account. 
The last three or four hours of his life he did employ in the serious utterance of a very pithy
discourse, whilst with a clear judgment and spirit void of all trouble he did foretell several
important things, whereof a great deal is come to pass, and the rest we wait for.  Howbeit,
his prophecies did at that time seem unto us somewhat strange, absurd, and unlikely, because
there did not then appear any sign of efficacy enough to engage our faith to the belief of
what he did prognosticate.  We have here, near to the town of Villomere, a man that is both
old and a poet, to wit, Raminagrobis, who to his second wife espoused my Lady Broadsow, on
whom he begot the fair Basoche.  It hath been told me he is a-dying, and so near unto his latter
end that he is almost upon the very last moment, point, and article thereof. Repair thither
as fast as you can, and be ready to give an attentive ear to what he shall chant unto you.
It may be that you shall obtain from him what you desire, and that Apollo will be pleased by
his means to clear your scruples.  I am content, quoth Panurge.  Let us go thither, Epistemon,
and that both instantly and in all haste, lest otherwise his death prevent our coming.  Wilt
thou come along with us, Friar John?  Yes, that I will, quoth Friar John, right heartily to
do thee a courtesy, my billy-ballocks; for I love thee with the best of my milt and liver.

Thereupon, incontinently, without any further lingering, to the way they all three went, and
quickly thereafter--for they made good speed--arriving at the poetical habitation, they found
the jolly old man, albeit in the agony of his departure from this world, looking cheerfully,
with an open countenance, splendid aspect, and behaviour full of alacrity.  After that Panurge
had very civilly saluted him, he in a free gift did present him with a gold ring, which he
even then put upon the medical finger of his left hand, in the collet or bezel whereof was
enchased an Oriental sapphire, very fair and large.  Then, in imitation of Socrates, did he
make an oblation unto him of a fair white cock, which was no sooner set upon the tester of
his bed, than that, with a high raised head and crest, lustily shaking his feather-coat, he
crowed stentoriphonically loud.  This done, Panurge very courteously required of him that he
would vouchsafe to favour him with the grant and report of his sense and judgment touching
the future destiny of his intended marriage.  For answer hereto, when the honest old man had
forthwith commanded pen, paper, and ink to be brought unto him, and that he was at the same
call conveniently served with all the three, he wrote these following verses:

  Take, or not take her,
    Off, or on:
  Handy-dandy is your lot.
  When her name you write, you blot.
  'Tis undone, when all is done,
  Ended e'er it was begun:
  Hardly gallop, if you trot,
  Set not forward when you run,
  Nor be single, though alone,
    Take, or not take her.

  Before you eat, begin to fast;
  For what shall be was never past.
  Say, unsay, gainsay, save your breath:
  Then wish at once her life and death.
    Take, or not take her.

These lines he gave out of his own hands unto them, saying unto them, Go, my lads, in peace!
the great God of the highest heavens be your guardian and preserver! and do not offer any more
to trouble or disquiet me with this or any other business whatsoever.  I have this same very
day, which is the last both of May and of me, with a greal deal of labour, toil, and difficulty,
chased out of my house a rabble of filthy, unclean, and plaguily pestilentious rake-hells,
black beasts, dusk, dun, white, ash-coloured, speckled, and a foul vermin of other hues, whose
obtrusive importunity would not permit me to die at my own ease; for by fraudulent and deceitful
pricklings, ravenous, harpy-like graspings, waspish stingings, and such-like unwelcome approaches,
forged in the shop of I know not what kind of insatiabilities, they went about to withdraw
and call me out of those sweet thoughts wherein I was already beginning to repose myself and
acquiesce in the contemplation and vision, yea, almost in the very touch and taste of the happiness
and felicity which the good God hath prepared for his faithful saints and elect in the other
life and state of immortality.  Turn out of their courses and eschew them, step forth of their
ways and do not resemble them; meanwhile, let me be no more troubled by you, but leave me now
in silence, I beseech you.

Chapter 3.XXII.

How Panurge patrocinates and defendeth the Order of the Begging Friars.

Panurge, at his issuing forth of Raminagrobis's chamber, said, as if he had been horribly affrighted,
By the virtue of God, I believe that he is an heretic; the devil take me, if I do not! he doth
so villainously rail at the Mendicant Friars and Jacobins, who are the two hemispheres of the
Christian world; by whose gyronomonic circumbilvaginations, as by two celivagous filopendulums,
all the autonomatic metagrobolism of the Romish Church, when tottering and emblustricated with
the gibble-gabble gibberish of this odious error and heresy, is homocentrically poised.  But
what harm, in the devil's name, have these poor devils the Capuchins and Minims done unto him?
Are not these beggarly devils sufficiently wretched already? Who can imagine that these poor
snakes, the very extracts of ichthyophagy, are not thoroughly enough besmoked and besmeared
with misery, distress, and calamity?  Dost thou think, Friar John, by thy faith, that he is
in the state of salvation?  He goeth, before God, as surely damned to thirty thousand basketsful
of devils as a pruning-bill to the lopping of a vine-branch.  To revile with opprobrious speeches
the good and courageous props and pillars of the Church,--is that to be called a poetical fury?
I cannot rest satisfied with him; he sinneth grossly, and blasphemeth against the true religion.
I am very much offended at his scandalizing words and contumelious obloquy.  I do not care
a straw, quoth Friar John, for what he hath said; for although everybody should twit and jerk
them, it were but a just retaliation, seeing all persons are served by them with the like sauce:
therefore do I pretend no interest therein.  Let us see, nevertheless, what he hath written.
Panurge very attentively read the paper which the old man had penned; then said to his two
fellow-travellers, The poor drinker doteth. Howsoever, I excuse him, for that I believe he
is now drawing near to the end and final closure of his life.  Let us go make his epitaph.
By the answer which he hath given us, I am not, I protest, one jot wiser than I was.  Hearken
here, Epistemon, my little bully, dost not thou hold him to be very resolute in his responsory
verdicts?  He is a witty, quick, and subtle sophister.  I will lay an even wager that he is
a miscreant apostate.  By the belly of a stalled ox, how careful he is not to be mistaken in
his words.  He answered but by disjunctives, therefore can it not be true which he saith; for
the verity of such-like propositions is inherent only in one of its two members.  O the cozening
prattler that he is!  I wonder if Santiago of Bressure be one of these cogging shirks.  Such
was of old, quoth Epistemon, the custom of the grand vaticinator and prophet Tiresias, who
used always, by way of a preface, to say openly and plainly at the beginning of his divinations
and predictions that what he was to tell would either come to pass or not.  And such is truly
the style of all prudently presaging prognosticators.  He was nevertheless, quoth Panurge,
so unfortunately misadventurous in the lot of his own destiny, that Juno thrust out both his eyes.

Yes, answered Epistemon, and that merely out of a spite and spleen for having pronounced his
award more veritable than she, upon the question which was merrily proposed by Jupiter.  But,
quoth Panurge, what archdevil is it that hath possessed this Master Raminagrobis, that so unreasonably,
and without any occasion, he should have so snappishly and bitterly inveighed against these
poor honest fathers, Jacobins, Minors, and Minims? It vexeth me grievously, I assure you; nor
am I able to conceal my indignation.  He hath transgressed most enormously; his soul goeth
infallibly to thirty thousand panniersful of devils.  I understand you not, quoth Epistemon,
and it disliketh me very much that you should so absurdly and perversely interpret that of
the Friar Mendicants which by the harmless poet was spoken of black beasts, dun, and other
sorts of other coloured animals.  He is not in my opinion guilty of such a sophistical and
fantastic allegory as by that phrase of his to have meant the Begging Brothers.  He in downright
terms speaketh absolutely and properly of fleas, punies, hand worms, flies, gnats, and other
such-like scurvy vermin, whereof some are black, some dun, some ash-coloured, some tawny, and
some brown and dusky, all noisome, molesting, tyrannous, cumbersome, and unpleasant creatures,
not only to sick and diseased folks, but to those also who are of a sound, vigorous, and healthful
temperament and constitution.  It is not unlikely that he may have the ascarids, and the lumbrics,
and worms within the entrails of his body.  Possibly doth he suffer, as it is frequent and
usual amongst the Egyptians, together with all those who inhabit the Erythraean confines, and
dwell along the shores and coasts of the Red Sea, some sour prickings and smart stingings in
his arms and legs of those little speckled dragons which the Arabians call meden.  You are
to blame for offering to expound his words otherwise, and wrong the ingenuous poet, and outrageously
abuse and miscall the said fraters, by an imputation of baseness undeservedly laid to their
charge. We still should, in such like discourses of fatiloquent soothsayers, interpret all
things to the best.  Will you teach me, quoth Panurge, how to discern flies among milk, or
show your father the way how to beget children?  He is, by the virtue of God, an arrant heretic,
a resolute, formal heretic; I say, a rooted, combustible heretic, one as fit to burn as the
little wooden clock at Rochelle.  His soul goeth to thirty thousand cartsful of devils.  Would
you know whither?  Cocks-body, my friend, straight under Proserpina's close-stool, to the very
middle of the self-same infernal pan within which she, by an excrementitious evacuation, voideth
the faecal stuff of her stinking clysters, and that just upon the left side of the great cauldron
of three fathom height, hard by the claws and talons of Lucifer, in the very darkest of the
passage which leadeth towards the black chamber of Demogorgon.  O the villain!

Chapter 3.XXIII.

How Panurge maketh the motion of a return to Raminagrobis.

Let us return, quoth Panurge, not ceasing, to the uttermost of our abilities, to ply him with
wholesome admonitions for the furtherance of his salvation.  Let us go back, for God's sake;
let us go, in the name of God. It will be a very meritorious work, and of great charity in
us to deal so in the matter, and provide so well for him that, albeit he come to lose both
body and life, he may at least escape the risk and danger of the eternal damnation of his soul.
We will by our holy persuasions bring him to a sense and feeling of his escapes, induce him
to acknowledge his faults, move him to a cordial repentance of his errors, and stir up in him
such a sincere contrition of heart for his offences, as will prompt him with all earnestness
to cry mercy, and to beg pardon at the hands of the good fathers, as well of the absent as
of such as are present.  Whereupon we will take instrument formally and authentically extended,
to the end he be not, after his decease, declared an heretic, and condemned, as were the hobgoblins
of the provost's wife of Orleans, to the undergoing of such punishments, pains, and tortures
as are due to and inflicted on those that inhabit the horrid cells of the infernal regions;
and withal incline, instigate, and persuade him to bequeath and leave in legacy (by way of
an amends and satisfaction for the outrage and injury done to those good religious fathers
throughout all the convents, cloisters, and monasteries of this province), many bribes, a great
deal of mass-singing, store of obits, and that sempiternally, on the anniversary day of his
decease, every one of them all be furnished with a quintuple allowance, and that the great
borachio replenished with the best liquor trudge apace along the tables, as well of the young
duckling monkitoes, lay brothers, and lowermost degree of the abbey lubbards, as of the learned
priests and reverend clerks,--the very meanest of the novices and mitiants unto the order being
equally admitted to the benefit of those funerary and obsequial festivals with the aged rectors
and professed fathers.  This is the surest ordinary means whereby from God he may obtain forgiveness.
Ho, ho, I am quite mistaken; I digress from the purpose, and fly out of my discourse, as if
my spirits were a-wool-gathering.  The devil take me, if I go thither!  Virtue God! The chamber
is already full of devils.  O what a swinging, thwacking noise is now amongst them!  O the
terrible coil that they keep!  Hearken, do you not hear the rustling, thumping bustle of their
strokes and blows, as they scuffle with one another, like true devils indeed, who shall gulp
up the Raminagrobis soul, and be the first bringer of it, whilst it is hot, to Monsieur Lucifer?
Beware, and get you hence! for my part, I will not go thither.  The devil roast me if I go!
Who knows but that these hungry mad devils may in the haste of their rage and fury of their
impatience take a qui for a quo, and instead of Raminagrobis snatch up poor Panurge frank and
free?  Though formerly, when I was deep in debt, they always failed.  Get you hence!  I will
not go thither.  Before God, the very bare apprehension thereof is like to kill me.  To be
in a place where there are greedy, famished, and hunger-starved devils; amongst factious devils--amidst
trading and trafficking devils--O the Lord preserve me!  Get you hence!  I dare pawn my credit
on it, that no Jacobin, Cordelier, Carmelite, Capuchin, Theatin, or Minim will bestow any personal
presence at his interment.  The wiser they, because he hath ordained nothing for them in his
latter will and testament.  The devil take me, if I go thither.  If he be damned, to his own
loss and hindrance be it.  What the deuce moved him to be so snappish and depravedly bent against
the good fathers of the true religion? Why did he cast them off, reject them, and drive them
quite out of his chamber, even in that very nick of time when he stood in greatest need of
the aid, suffrage, and assistance of their devout prayers and holy admonitions?  Why did not
he by testament leave them, at least, some jolly lumps and cantles of substantial meat, a parcel
of cheek-puffing victuals, and a little belly-timber and provision for the guts of these poor
folks, who have nothing but their life in this world?  Let him go thither who will, the devil
take me if I go; for, if I should, the devil would not fail to snatch me up.  Cancro.  Ho,
the pox!  Get you hence, Friar John!  Art thou content that thirty thousand wainload of devils
should get away with thee at this same very instant?  If thou be, at my request do these three
things.  First, give me thy purse; for besides that thy money is marked with crosses, and the
cross is an enemy to charms, the same may befall to thee which not long ago happened to John
Dodin, collector of the excise of Coudray, at the ford of Vede, when the soldiers broke the
planks.  This moneyed fellow, meeting at the very brink of the bank of the ford with Friar
Adam Crankcod, a Franciscan observantin of Mirebeau, promised him a new frock, provided that
in the transporting of him over the water he would bear him upon his neck and shoulders, after
the manner of carrying dead goats; for he was a lusty, strong-limbed, sturdy rogue.  The condition
being agreed upon, Friar Crankcod trusseth himself up to his very ballocks, and layeth upon
his back, like a fair little Saint Christopher, the load of the said supplicant Dodin, and
so carried him gaily and with a good will, as Aeneas bore his father Anchises through the conflagration
of Troy, singing in the meanwhile a pretty Ave Maris Stella.  When they were in the very deepest
place of all the ford, a little above the master-wheel of the water-mill, he asked if he had
any coin about him.  Yes, quoth Dodin, a whole bagful; and that he needed not to mistrust his
ability in the performance of the promise which he had made unto him concerning a new frock.
How! quoth Friar Crankcod, thou knowest well enough that by the express rules, canons, and
injunctions of our order we are forbidden to carry on us any kind of money.  Thou art truly
unhappy, for having made me in this point to commit a heinous trespass.  Why didst thou not
leave thy purse with the miller?  Without fail thou shalt presently receive thy reward for
it; and if ever hereafter I may but lay hold upon thee within the limits of our chancel at
Mirebeau, thou shalt have the Miserere even to the Vitulos.  With this, suddenly discharging
himself of his burden, he throws me down your Dodin headlong.  Take example by this Dodin,
my dear friend Friar John, to the end that the devils may the better carry thee away at thine
own ease.  Give me thy purse.  Carry no manner of cross upon thee.  Therein lieth an evident
and manifestly apparent danger.  For if you have any silver coined with a cross upon it, they
will cast thee down headlong upon some rocks, as the eagles use to do with the tortoises for
the breaking of their shells, as the bald pate of the poet Aeschylus can sufficiently bear
witness.  Such a fall would hurt thee very sore, my sweet bully, and I would be sorry for it.
Or otherwise they will let thee fall and tumble down into the high swollen waves of some capacious
sea, I know not where; but, I warrant thee, far enough hence, as Icarus fell, which from thy
name would afterwards get the denomination of the Funnelian Sea.

Secondly, be out of debt.  For the devils carry a great liking to those that are out of debt.
I have sore felt the experience thereof in mine own particular; for now the lecherous varlets
are always wooing me, courting me, and making much of me, which they never did when I was all
to pieces. The soul of one in debt is insipid, dry, and heretical altogether.

Thirdly, with the cowl and Domino de Grobis, return to Raminagrobis; and in case, being thus
qualified, thirty thousand boatsful of devils forthwith come not to carry thee quite away,
I shall be content to be at the charge of paying for the pint and faggot.  Now, if for the
more security thou wouldst some associate to bear thee company, let not me be the comrade thou
searchest for; think not to get a fellow-traveller of me,--nay, do not.  I advise thee for
the best.  Get you hence; I will not go thither.  The devil take me if I go.  Notwithstanding
all the fright that you are in, quoth Friar John, I would not care so much as might possibly
be expected I should, if I once had but my sword in my hand.  Thou hast verily hit the nail
on the head, quoth Panurge, and speakest like a learned doctor, subtle and well-skilled in
the art of devilry.  At the time when I was a student in the University of Toulouse (Tolette),
that same reverend father in the devil, Picatrix, rector of the diabological faculty, was wont
to tell us that the devils did naturally fear the bright glancing of swords as much as the
splendour and light of the sun.  In confirmation of the verity whereof he related this story,
that Hercules, at his descent into hell to all the devils of those regions, did not by half
so much terrify them with his club and lion's skin as afterwards Aeneas did with his clear
shining armour upon him, and his sword in his hand well-furbished and unrusted, by the aid,
counsel, and assistance of the Sybilla Cumana.  That was perhaps the reason why the senior
John Jacomo di Trivulcio, whilst he was a-dying at Chartres, called for his cutlass, and died
with a drawn sword in his hand, laying about him alongst and athwart around the bed and everywhere
within his reach, like a stout, doughty, valorous and knight-like cavalier; by which resolute
manner of fence he scared away and put to flight all the devils that were then lying in wait
for his soul at the passage of his death. When the Massorets and Cabalists are asked why it
is that none of all the devils do at any time enter into the terrestrial paradise? their answer
hath been, is, and will be still, that there is a cherubin standing at the gate thereof with
a flame-like glistering sword in his hand.  Although, to speak in the true diabological sense
or phrase of Toledo, I must needs confess and acknowledge that veritably the devils cannot
be killed or die by the stroke of a sword, I do nevertheless avow and maintain, according to
the doctrine of the said diabology, that they may suffer a solution of continuity (as if with
thy shable thou shouldst cut athwart the flame of a burning fire, or the gross opacous exhalations
of a thick and obscure smoke), and cry out like very devils at their sense and feeling of this
dissolution, which in real deed I must aver and affirm is devilishly painful, smarting, and
dolorous.

When thou seest the impetuous shock of two armies, and vehement violence of the push in their
horrid encounter with one another, dost thou think, Ballockasso, that so horrible a noise as
is heard there proceedeth from the voice and shouts of men, the dashing and jolting of harness,
the clattering and clashing of armies, the hacking and slashing of battle-axes, the justling
and crashing of pikes, the bustling and breaking of lances, the clamour and shrieks of the
wounded, the sound and din of drums, the clangour and shrillness of trumpets, the neighing
and rushing in of horses, with the fearful claps and thundering of all sorts of guns, from
the double cannon to the pocket pistol inclusively?  I cannot goodly deny but that in these
various things which I have rehearsed there may be somewhat occasionative of the huge yell
and tintamarre of the two engaged bodies. But the most fearful and tumultuous coil and stir,
the terriblest and most boisterous garboil and hurry, the chiefest rustling black santus of
all, and most principal hurlyburly springeth from the grievously plangorous howling and lowing
of devils, who pell-mell, in a hand-over-head confusion, waiting for the poor souls of the
maimed and hurt soldiery, receive unawares some strokes with swords, and so by those means
suffer a solution of and division in the continuity of their aerial and invisible substances;
as if some lackey, snatching at the lard-slices stuck in a piece of roast meat on the spit,
should get from Mr. Greasyfist a good rap on the knuckles with a cudgel.  They cry out and
shout like devils, even as Mars did when he was hurt by Diomedes at the siege of Troy, who,
as Homer testifieth of him, did then raise his voice more horrifically loud and sonoriferously
high than ten thousand men together would have been able to do.  What maketh all this for our
present purpose?  I have been speaking here of well-furbished armour and bright shining swords.
But so is it not, Friar John, with thy weapon; for by a long discontinuance of work, cessation
from labour, desisting from making it officiate, and putting it into that practice wherein
it had been formerly accustomed, and, in a word, for want of occupation, it is, upon my faith,
become more rusty than the key-hole of an old powdering-tub.  Therefore it is expedient that
you do one of these two things:  either furbish your weapon bravely, and as it ought to be,
or otherwise have a care that, in the rusty case it is in, you do not presume to return to
the house of Raminagrobis.  For my part, I vow I will not go thither.  The devil take me if I go.

Chapter 3.XXIV.

How Panurge consulteth with Epistemon.

Having left the town of Villomere, as they were upon their return towards Pantagruel, Panurge,
in addressing his discourse to Epistemon, spoke thus: My most ancient friend and gossip, thou
seest the perplexity of my thoughts, and knowest many remedies for the removal thereof; art
thou not able to help and succour me?  Epistemon, thereupon taking the speech in hand, represented
unto Panurge how the open voice and common fame of the whole country did run upon no other
discourse but the derision and mockery of his new disguise; wherefore his counsel unto him
was that he would in the first place be pleased to make use of a little hellebore for the purging
of his brain of that peccant humour which, through that extravagant and fantastic mummery of
his, had furnished the people with a too just occasion of flouting and gibing, jeering and
scoffing him, and that next he would resume his ordinary fashion of accoutrement, and go apparelled
as he was wont to do.  I am, quoth Panurge, my dear gossip Epistemon, of a mind and resolution
to marry, but am afraid of being a cuckold and to be unfortunate in my wedlock.  For this cause
have I made a vow to young St. Francis--who at Plessis-les-Tours is much reverenced of all
women, earnestly cried unto by them, and with great devotion, for he was the first founder
of the confraternity of good men, whom they naturally covet, affect, and long for--to wear
spectacles in my cap, and to carry no codpiece in my breeches, until the present inquietude
and perturbation of my spirits be fully settled.

Truly, quoth Epistemon, that is a pretty jolly vow of thirteen to a dozen. It is a shame to
you, and I wonder much at it, that you do not return unto yourself, and recall your senses
from this their wild swerving and straying abroad to that rest and stillness which becomes
a virtuous man.  This whimsical conceit of yours brings me to the remembrance of a solemn promise
made by the shag-haired Argives, who, having in their controversy against the Lacedaemonians
for the territory of Thyrea, lost the battle which they hoped should have decided it for their
advantage, vowed to carry never any hair on their heads till preallably they had recovered
the loss of both their honour and lands.  As likewise to the memory of the vow of a pleasant
Spaniard called Michael Doris, who vowed to carry in his hat a piece of the shin of his leg
till he should be revenged of him who had struck it off. Yet do not I know which of these two
deserveth most to wear a green and yellow hood with a hare's ears tied to it, either the aforesaid
vainglorious champion, or that Enguerrant, who having forgot the art and manner of writing
histories set down by the Samosatian philosopher, maketh a most tediously long narrative and
relation thereof.  For, at the first reading of such a profuse discourse, one would think it
had been broached for the introducing of a story of great importance and moment concerning
the waging of some formidable war, or the notable change and mutation of potent states and
kingdoms; but, in conclusion, the world laugheth at the capricious champion, at the Englishman
who had affronted him, as also at their scribbler Enguerrant, more drivelling at the mouth
than a mustard pot.  The jest and scorn thereof is not unlike to that of the mountain of Horace,
which by the poet was made to cry out and lament most enormously as a woman in the pangs and
labour of child-birth, at which deplorable and exorbitant cries and lamentations the whole
neighbourhood being assembled in expectation to see some marvellous monstrous production, could
at last perceive no other but the paltry, ridiculous mouse.

Your mousing, quoth Panurge, will not make me leave my musing why folks should be so frumpishly
disposed, seeing I am certainly persuaded that some flout who merit to be flouted at; yet,
as my vow imports, so will I do.  It is now a long time since, by Jupiter Philos (A mistake
of the translator's.--M.), we did swear faith and amity to one another.  Give me your advice,
billy, and tell me your opinion freely, Should I marry or no? Truly, quoth Epistemon, the case
is hazardous, and the danger so eminently apparent that I find myself too weak and insufficient
to give you a punctual and peremptory resolution therein; and if ever it was true that judgment
is difficult in matters of the medicinal art, what was said by Hippocrates of Lango, it is
certainly so in this case.  True it is that in my brain there are some rolling fancies, by
means whereof somewhat may be pitched upon of a seeming efficacy to the disentangling your
mind of those dubious apprehensions wherewith it is perplexed; but they do not thoroughly satisfy
me.  Some of the Platonic sect affirm that whosoever is able to see his proper genius may know
his own destiny.  I understand not their doctrine, nor do I think that you adhere to them;
there is a palpable abuse.  I have seen the experience of it in a very curious gentleman of
the country of Estangourre.  This is one of the points.  There is yet another not much better.
If there were any authority now in the oracles of Jupiter Ammon; of Apollo in Lebadia, Delphos,
Delos, Cyrra, Patara, Tegyres, Preneste, Lycia, Colophon, or in the Castalian Fountain; near
Antiochia in Syria, between the Branchidians; of Bacchus in Dodona; of Mercury in Phares, near
Patras; of Apis in Egypt; of Serapis in Canope; of Faunus in Menalia, and Albunea near Tivoli;
of Tiresias in Orchomenus; of Mopsus in Cilicia; of Orpheus in Lesbos, and of Trophonius in
Leucadia; I would in that case advise you, and possibly not, to go thither for their judgment
concerning the design and enterprise you have in hand.  But you know that they are all of them
become as dumb as so many fishes since the advent of that Saviour King whose coming to this
world hath made all oracles and prophecies to cease; as the approach of the sun's radiant beams
expelleth goblins, bugbears, hobthrushes, broams, screech-owl-mates, night-walking spirits,
and tenebrions.  These now are gone; but although they were as yet in continuance and in the
same power, rule, and request that formerly they were, yet would not I counsel you to be too
credulous in putting any trust in their responses.  Too many folks have been deceived thereby.
It stands furthermore upon record how Agrippina did charge the fair Lollia with the crime of
having interrogated the oracle of Apollo Clarius, to understand if she should be at any time
married to the Emperor Claudius; for which cause she was first banished, and thereafter put
to a shameful and ignominious death.

