OUR STAGE AND ITS CRITICS

BY

"E.F.S."

OF "THE WESTMINSTER GAZETTE"

1910

PREFACE

Whilst reading the proof-sheets of these articles I have been oppressed by the thought that
they give a gloomy idea about the state of our Stage. Yet I am naturally sanguine. Indeed,
no one taking a deep interest in our drama could have written for a score or so of years about
it unless of a naturally sanguine temperament. There has been great progress during my time,
yet we still are far from possessing a modern national drama creditable to us. Some imagine
that the British have no inborn genius for writing drama, or acting it, and look upon those
dramatists and players whose greatness cannot be denied as mere exceptions to a rule. Without
alleging that at the moment we have a Shakespeare, a Garrick or a Siddons, I assert confidently
that we own dramatists and players able, if rightly used, to make our theatre worthy of our
country and also that the misuse of them is appalling. For very many years the history of the
English stage has been chiefly a record of waste, of gross commercialism and of honest efforts
ruined by adherence to mischievous traditions: the Scottish and Irish stage have been mere
reflections of our own.

At the moment Ireland is making a brave and remarkably successful effort at emancipation, and
during the last few years has laid the foundations of a National Theatre and built a good deal
upon them. Scotland lags a little, yet the energy and enthusiasm of Mr Alfred Wareing and the
citizens of Glasgow have enabled them to create an institution not unlikely to serve as the
home of a real Scots drama. They offer to the native playwright an opportunity of showing that
a national drama--not a drama merely echoing the drama of other lands--lies inherent in the
race. Who knows that they may not induce that wayward man of genius, J.M. Barrie, to become
the parent of Scots drama by honestly and sincerely using his rare gifts as dramatist in an
effort to express the pathos and the humour, the courage and the shyness, the shrewdness and
the imagination, and also the less agreeable qualities and characteristics of our brothers
across the border.

And England? I have little first-hand knowledge of the provinces, but with such as I possess,
and the aid of the Era Annual and the Stage Year Book, can state unhesitatingly that the position
is very unsatisfactory. Admirable, valuable work is being done bravely by Miss Horniman at
Manchester; Mr F.R. Benson and his company devotedly carry the banner of Shakespeare through
the land; but in the main the playhouses of the provinces and great cities of England offer
little more than echoes of the London theatres, and such original works as are produced in
them generally are mere experiments made on the dog before a piece is presented in London.
In this respect, the suburbs resemble the provinces, although Mr J.B. Mulholland courageously
makes efforts to give Hammersmith something new and good. The Coronet has seen some valuable
ventures--perhaps Notting Hill is not a suburb--and at the moment is devoted to the production
of real novelties.

In the West End theatres of London the position at first sight seems desperate. During the
last twenty years, in consequence of the intervention of middlemen, rents have risen 100 per
cent.; owing to the folly of managers the salaries of the company have increased to a similar
extent; whilst the cost of scenery, costumes and the like also has grown enormously. Indeed,
it is probably an under-statement to allege that the money spent in running a theatre on the
customary commercial lines is twice as great as it was in 1890. Yet the price of seats has
not been raised. Consequently theatre management has become a huge gamble, in which there are
few prizes, and the amount of money lost annually is great. Naturally, under such circumstances
the principal, almost the only, aim of the ordinary manager is to please the masses. Many concessions
are made to the wishes of the crowd, and by way of excuse the phrase "the drama's laws the
drama's patrons give" is quoted. It is painful to think that people can quote Johnson's line
without a feeling of scorn, yet it necessarily contains an awful amount of truth when theatres
are managed under the present mad conditions. What art has ever made progress under laws dictated
by the great half-washed?

Half-a-dozen of the West End theatres are devoted to musico-dramatic works which, whatever
their merits in other respects, have none as drama, and certainly have done little for the
development of English music. As a rule several houses are under the management of American
managers and they, putting Mr Frohman aside, rarely prove anything but the sterility of America
drama or their contempt for the taste of our playgoers who, however, as a rule prefer native
to imported rubbish--hence grumbles in the United States about prejudice and unfair play. Mr
Frohman, as part of his repertory scheme, and otherwise as well, has done something to help
the modern English dramatist. Putting Shakespeare out of the question, for of course he has
nothing to do with English modern drama, we have little in the ordinary London theatre that
is not the natural result of bad traditions, and the only progress made is in the direction
of increased dexterity in playwriting--unfortunately increased dexterity as a rule in handling
old subjects according to the old traditions, which leave the stage curiously outside the world
of literature and also of ordinary human life.

On the other hand, thanks to the efforts of many enthusiasts working by means of societies
and clubs, such as the Independent Theatre--the first of all--the Century Theatre, the (Incorporated)
Stage Society, the Pioneers, the Play Actors and others, and the Play-goers' Club, the O.P.
Club and the Gallery First Nighters, and also thanks to the efforts of Messrs Vedrenne and
Barker, at the Court Theatre, real progress has been made in London towards the creation of
an English modern theatre, and we now possess a valuable body of dramatists, some to a great
extent, others altogether, neglected by the ordinary theatre. Speaking of these dramatists
collectively, it may fairly be said that their gifts are greater, their ambitions higher and
their theories of drama sounder than those of their rivals who work for the ordinary theatre;
and I should add that the ordinary theatre is far richer in dramatists of quality than it was
twenty years ago. So we have the playwrights.

Also we have the plays. The publication in book form of the best native pieces presented by
the enthusiasts of whom I have spoken, but not offered to the general public for a run, would
satisfy any critic that the English modern drama exists although we are still waiting for the
English modern theatre.

Moreover, we have the players. Some, though not many, of the fashionable stars would serve,
whilst there are numbers of really able actresses and actors who have proved their ability
to represent modern comedy, but owing to the strange policy of managers are rarely employed
by the ordinary theatre--in London. In several cases the policy may be sound, since the regular
fare of the fashionable houses as a rule demands a showy, but insincere, style out of the range,
or at least the demonstrated range, of the neglected players.

Does the public for such a theatre exist? I think so. The number of playgoers is very large,
and although only a comparatively small proportion goes out of its way to patronise the non-commercial
drama a very large proportion has grown weary of the ordinary drama--a fact shown by the recent
failure of plays which not many years ago would have been successful.

Do the critics exist? They are an important element in the matter. The question is a delicate
one for me to answer. Certainly some of our dramatic critics are men of culture and courage,
able to appreciate new ideas. The difficulty is more with the newspapers than their representatives.
For a sad aspect of the present state of affairs lies in the fact that the desire to obtain
tittle-tattle and gossip concerning the players often outweighs the desire to obtain sincere,
intelligent criticism, and the result is obvious. There is ten times more "copy" published
about the persons and personal affairs of the author of a play and of its players than concerning
its merits and faults.

However, after taking all the elements into account, it may confidently be asserted that within
the lifetime of the present generation of playgoers radical changes will have taken place,
and even if we may not possess tragedy of the highest quality we shall have a theatre of modern
English drama--serious comedy and also light comedy and farce--really expressive of current
life and thought and fine enough in style to render the most critical Englishman proud of his
country's drama.

E.F.S.

October 1910

The thanks of the author are due to the Proprietors and the Editor of The Westminster Gazette
for kindly consenting to the republication of articles which have already appeared in that journal.

CONTENTS

                                                                  PAGE
CHAPTER I

THE DRAMATIC CRITIC

His Qualifications--His Knowledge of Fashionable Society--His Duties and Difficulties--His
Stock Phrases--The Circumstances under which he writes--His Fear of Libel Actions         
1

CHAPTER II

THE DRAMATIC CRITIC

His Duty to be tolerant--His Sympathies when young--The Jaded Critic--His Unpaid Labours and
his Letter Bag                                                                 28

CHAPTER III

THE DRAMATIC CRITIC

An Attack upon him--Why he is disliked--His Honesty--His Abolition--The Threatened Theatrical
Trust                          49

CHAPTER IV

PLAYS OF PARTICULAR TYPES

The Pseudo-Historical--The Horrible in Drama--The Immorality Play--Scripture Plays--Anecdotal
Plays--The Supernatural                                                        72

CHAPTER V

PLAYS OF PARTICULAR TYPES

Unsentimental Drama--The Second-hand Drama--Plays with a Purpose--Drama and Social Reform 
99

CHAPTER VI

THE PHENOMENA OF THE STAGE

The Optics--Make-up--Gesture--Scenery at the French Plays--Stage Costumes--Colour--Stage Meals
118

CHAPTER VII

THE MORALITY OF OUR DRAMA

Mr Harry Lauder on the Morals of Our Drama--Double Entente--Moral Effect on Audience--An Advantage
of French Dramatists                                                  149

CHAPTER VIII

CASUAL NOTES ON ACTING

Mr H.B. Irving on his Art--Mr Bourchier and "Max" on English Acting--The Sicilian Players--Alleged
Dearth of Great Actresses--Character Actresses--Stage Misfits--Stars      167

CHAPTER IX

STAGE DANCING

The Skirts of the Drama--Isadora Duncan                            195

CHAPTER X

THINGS IN THE THEATRE

A Defence of the Matinée Hat--A Justification of certain Deadheads--Theatrical Advertisements--Music
205

CHAPTER XI

IN THE PLAYHOUSE

Laughter--Smoking in the Auditorium--Conduct of the Audience--Concerning the Pit--Why do we
go to the Theatre?                                                           229

CHAPTER XII

MISCELLANEOUS

Signor Borsa on the English Theatre--G.B.S. and the Amateurs--Cant about Shakespeare--Yvette
Guilbert on Dramatists                                                      252

CHAPTER XIII

MISCELLANEOUS

Finance in Plays--Some Unsuccessful Dramatists--The Ending of the Play--Preposterous Stage
Types--The Professions of the Dramatis Personae                               271

CHAPTER I

THE DRAMATIC CRITIC

His Qualifications

The production of a play in the Russian tongue renders topical a phrase once used, not unhappily,
by Mr Cecil Raleigh concerning the qualifications of the dramatic critic. After listening to
a somewhat extravagant speech about the duties of the critic, he said that the dramatic critic
ought, apparently, to be a "polyglot archangel." During the last few years we have had plays
in Russian, Japanese, Bavarian patois, Dutch, German, French and Italian, to say nothing of
East End performances in Hebrew and Yiddish, which we neglect. Latin drama we hear at Westminster;
a Greek company came to the Court but did not act. A Chinese has been promised, and a Turkish
drama threatened; Danish has been given; there are awful hopes of Gaelic and Erse; and goodness
knows why we have escaped Echegaray, Lope di Vega and Calderon in the original. A Mezzofanti
would be at a premium in the craft if knowledge of languages alone were sufficient; but one
may know many tongues and possess no judgment.

We have to accept great responsibilities. Some people measure the greatness of the responsibilities
by the amount of money involved in theatrical enterprises; it is hardly necessary to discuss
seriously this point of view. Nevertheless the fact remains that the voice of the critics has
some effect upon the fortunes of ventures involving large sums of money and the employment
of many people. It is rather curious to see how lightly as a rule the influence of the critics
is regarded; for instance, from some remarks uttered by Sir John Hare it appears that he thinks
they are not influential. Here are his words taken from an interview published in a newspaper.

The Interviewer: "How is public taste formed? Do newspaper criticisms affect it?"

Mr Hare: "Very little."

This view is rarely pressed upon a jury by the plaintiff in a libel action, and it may be remarked
that although, when a play is running well, some managers almost ignore us, as soon as business
drops they become delightfully amiable and long for our presence. Moreover, at considerable
expense, they quote our opinions if favourable--even with judicious modifications when unfavourable.

Perhaps the matter of languages is not of very great importance, seeing that most of the critic's
work concerns English Drama, or drama in what is supposed to be English, which, too often,
is quite a different thing. What, then, are the necessary qualifications of the critic who
takes his work and himself seriously?

He should have some knowledge of music--enough, at least, to know whether incidental or "melodrama"
music is congruous with the time, place and occasion of the play, and to be able to identify
well-known works. At a time when money is spent very lavishly upon scenery and costumes, he
ought to possess some theories, or at least ideas, concerning pictorial art, the history of
modern painting and the like, and be capable of guessing what a daring experimentalist like
Mr Gordon Craig is aiming at and what relation his scene-pictures bear to the current cant
of the art critic. It is deplorable when one finds serious critics gushing about the beauty
of costly stage effects belonging to the standard of taste exhibited by wedding-cakes, Christmas
crackers, old-fashioned valentines and Royal Academicians. Dancing must mean something more
to him than a whirling and twirling of human beings--he should at the least know the distinctive
styles and figures of different countries, and not confuse an entrechat with a pirouette, should
be aware of the meaning of the terms arabesque and rond de jambe, and understand to some extent
the conventional language and history of grand ballet. No one will deny that his study of history
must be substantial and, to put the matter compendiously, he must have a good general education,
which, however, will not carry him very far, since he must own a special knowledge of the history
of drama and of literature and modern literary movements.

Then comes the question of theories of criticism--can he do with less than, say, an acquaintance
with Aristotle, and Lessing's "Laocoon," or even with so little? With Shakespeare and some
of his commentators he ought to be at home; the "Paradoxe sur le Comédien" he can hardly escape,
and the works of some of the modern English and latest French critics may not be overlooked.
Of course he must have read and considered a large number of plays, and the theories on which
they are based. Politics he may almost neglect unless there be successors to John Bull's Other
Island, though he will have to keep abreast of the facts and fancies of modern life, including,
to some extent, political matters. How he is to study the customs, usage and manners of polite
society among the upper ten thousand it is hard to say. Not a few of us are weak on this point,
and feel ill at ease when dealing with the nuances of the customs of Mayfair. The study of
books on Savoir Faire and the Manners of Polite Society certainly will give very little assistance.

Lastly, in this catalogue, which is far from exhaustive, he must study the art of writing,
so that he may at least be able to keep clear of the vulgar faults. No one expects him to show
any absolute merit in style--space and circumstances of time and place are against him, and
to accomplish the negative is quite a positive triumph. Correct grammar, avoidance of hackneyed
clichés, clearness of phrase, reasonably scholar-like use of words, abstinence from alliteration
unless there be due cause, and escape from uncouthness of expression and monotony of sound
are all he can hope to exhibit in the way of virtue. Of course a little wit or humour does
no harm, provided that no sacrifice of truth is made for the sake of it. Of the moral qualities
nothing need be said; he will be exposed to a few great temptations and many little ones: to
some of the latter he is certain to yield.

If and when he has acquired all this knowledge, it will be his duty almost to conceal it. It
is to be employed as apparatus for the formation of judgments rather than the embellishment
of them, though, of course, it may be used reticently by way of illustration, explanation and
the like. Yet it may be useful and not illegitimate for him sometimes to try to convince the
reader that his criticism is from the pen of one who knows more about the subject than lies
within the range of the Man in the Street.

The critic is not superior to the amateur judge by reason of a greater natural aptitude for
judging, but because he has a larger stock of knowledge on which to base his judgments, possesses
a wider basis for comparison--the foundation of all opinion--and has trained his natural aptitudes;
consequently, whilst his criticism necessarily, like that of the Man in the Street, is relative,
not absolute, is after all merely an ipse dixit, it is the personal view of the better-trained
person.

The pessimist may suggest that it is hardly worth while to endeavour to become such an Admirable
Crichton, that the labour will not be sufficiently remunerated, that the existing British Drama
does not demand or deserve criticism by such cultured experts.

There are few of us fully qualified, according to the standard put forward in these lines,
and it may be added, without anything in the nature of mock-modesty, that the author is well
aware of the fact that he cannot be reckoned among the few.

His Knowledge of Fashionable Society

A passage in Lady Huntworth's Experiment did not earn the laugh deserved by it. Captain Dorvaston
was supposed to read a passage from The Special Monthly Journal, to this effect: "The shield
bore for device a bar sinister, with fleur-de-lys rampant"; then he said, "That ain't heraldry."
Lady Huntworth replied, "Yes, it is; Family Heraldry," and he laughed. The passage in the play
brought forward vividly the thought that those who really live in the aristocratic world may
smile at our high-life dramas just as they do at the stories that appear concerning the nobility
in obscure "family" papers. There is, and during a long time has been, a mania among playwrights
for putting aristocratic characters upon the stage. It may be that this is due to the snobbishness
of players, who, in comedy, love to represent a lord: they can be kings and queens only in
tragedies; or to that of the audience, which likes to see the representation of the nobility;
or, again, it may be caused by the snobbishness of the dramatist and his wish to suggest that
he knows all about the "upper succles."

It need not be assumed that we are much worse in this respect than our neighbours across that
Channel which some desire to have destroyed and so nullify the famous John of Gaunt speech.
In books and plays the Gallic writers are almost as fond of presenting the French aristocracy
as are our dramatists and novelists of writing works concerning the British Peerage. Even putting
the actual peerage aside, the question is important, whether the pictures in fiction--particularly
in drama--of what one may call Belgravia or Mayfair are correct. We critics hardly know; and
it may be a solecism to suggest that the same applies to the studies of the Faubourg St Germain.
Perhaps that famous faubourg has lost its distinction.

The question may seem a little difficult yet must be asked: How do our dramatists and the French
manage to get a first-hand study of the real aristocracy? Of course, nowadays, there are a
large number of houses owned by people with titles, and sometimes very noble titles, which
can easily be penetrated. Speaking quite apart from politics, one may say that the British
aristocracy year by year makes itself cheaper and cheaper, losing thereby its title to existence.
The city clerk can do better than Dick Swiveller, and decorate his bed-sitting room with a
photographic gallery of décolletées duchesses, and bare-legged ladies of noble family, and
he is able to obtain a vast amount of information, part of it quite accurate, concerning their
doings.

Yet, even when we get far higher than the city clerk, and reach the fashionable playwright,
to say nothing of the dramatic critic, there are mysteries unexplorable. There is a Lhassa
in Mayfair, our efforts to attain which are Burked.

A big Bohemian, sporting "smart-set," Anglo-American, South African millionaire society exists
which has in it a good many people acknowledged by Debrett, and this it is quite easy to enter.
There are a score or so of peers, and twice the number of peeresses, as well as smaller fry,
possessing titles by birth or marriage, with whom it is not difficult, and not always desirable,
to become acquainted. The real aristocracy looks askance at them. When we see pictures of these,
or studies on the French stage of the titled faiseurs, or rastaquouères, we know that they
may be correct, and indeed the figures in them have become to such an extent despecialised
that we can judge of the truthfulness of the study by the simple process of assuming that they
do not possess any titles at all.

Still, there remains a world beyond, where, to some extent at least, manners and ideas are
different from those of the upper-middle-class, or the middle-middle-class, to whichever it
may be that our craft belongs. People will recollect Thackeray's remarks concerning the impossibility
of getting to know the real domestic life of your French friends; whether his words are well
founded or not, they illustrate the essential unknowability to the outsider of some of the
great noble and even untitled county families of the land. It is said that there still exist
some great ladies who have not cheapened themselves by allowing their photographs to be published
in the sixpenny papers. Yet our dramatists, or some at least, seem to think that a play is
vulgar unless amongst the dramatis personae one can find a lord or two.

Perhaps indolence is their excuse. You call a character the Duke of Smithfield, and thereby
save yourself much trouble; you need not explain that he is rich, or how he came to be rich,
or why he has no work to do. You have ready-made for you the supposition of a mass of details
as to manner and prejudices. If the heroine's father is an earl and the hero a commoner, such
as a barrister or a doctor, the mere statement of these facts is useful matter for your story.
If the dramatist writes about the kind of earl who belongs to that inner set of the aristocracy,
in the existence of which some of us innocently believe, how does he set about his task?

Even when the ordinary playwright handles the ruck-and-run of the "nobs," his acquaintance
with them can hardly justify him in regarding his studies as founded upon observation. To see
people in the stalls and meet them at public "functions," or the large entertainments of a
semi-private character which it is easy to penetrate, gives poor opportunity for close scrutiny.
Is there amongst the dramatists--and novelists too--something akin to the system of the islanders
who earned a living by taking in one another's washing? Is there a vicious circle, in which
each and all accept as true what others have written? Do they merely help themselves out of
the common fund of ignorance?

Possibly this is based upon a delusion. The whole aristocracy may have become so democratic
that it is quite easy to study the most exclusive at first hand, if you happen to be a successful
dramatist, but very few of the dramatic critics are successful dramatists.

The opportunities for the critic are limited except when a peeress happens to have written
a play, and even then a candid critic does not get very far. Perhaps, too, if some inner circle
exists there is no need to study it; for a knowledge of the titled folk floating in the great
three-quarter world that is taking the place of Society may suffice, and to have met a countess
at a musical reception, of five hundred or so, given by some millionaire amateur, or to have
been on the board of a catchpenny company with a baron, or to have suffered long at a charity
ball and obtained introductions from a ducal steward, or to have bought a cup of bad tea at
an Albert Hall bazaar from a marchioness whose manners would shock a cook, is a sufficient
acquaintance with the customs, thoughts and ideals of all the inhabitants of Debrett, and entitles
one to present or to criticize the shyest member of the august House that is now beginning
to wonder what is going to happen next.

His Duty and Difficulties

The title is the Duty--not the duties--of a dramatic critic--the latter would be too large
a subject. Obviously his duty is to tell the truth. How easy it sounds! How difficult it is
to tell even the relative truth; the absolute is out of the question. Suppose that the critic
has come to the conclusion that he knows the truth about a play, with what is he to tell it?
With language, of course--an appallingly bad piece of machinery, which grows worse and worse
every day. When a number of critics have formed the same opinion about a piece, and all wish
to say that it is good--a very bad term to employ--one will call it good, another very good;
a third, exceedingly good; a fourth, great; a fifth, splendid, a sixth, superb; and so on till
some reckless language-monger uses the state-occasion term--a "work of genius." How is the
reader to guess that they all mean the same thing? Moreover, if they were to use identical
words every reader would put a somewhat different meaning upon them.

"One of my greatest difficulties," a famous physician once said, "lies in the fact that to
a great extent I have to rely upon a patient's description of the nature and quantity of pain
he or she has suffered from. One will speak of pain where another employs the word agony; the
third complains of intense torture; a fourth describes it as intolerable anguish; and a fifth
says it hurts a little. Yet they all refer to the same thing. No wonder we are often at sea."

The difficulty increases. Many new words are coined, but old ones are rarely demonetised; they
remain in circulation, defaced and worn, till the precise image and superscription are barely
recognizable. We multiply negatives in order to get fine shades. If, then, the critic knows
the truth he is aware that he has no means of conveying it to the reader. Wherefore some make
little effort and indulge merely in fine writing. Hence, too, some excuse for the common incivility
of our friends when they say to us, "Well, old man, I read your notice on the ----; tell me,
is it worth going to see?"

The difficulty of expressing an opinion is hardly less than that of forming it; assume that
the critic possesses all the qualifications, so far as knowledge and the natural gift for criticising
are concerned--and, alas! knowledge and the gift are very often far apart--and then think of
the obstacles to the proper employment of them.

The play may belong to a class which the critic does not like, although it is legitimate; he
may not flout it on that account. You should not blame a bream because it is not a barbel,
or a chub for not being a trout, yet the angler grumbles if he catches the humbler fish when
aiming at the noble; we are all agreed that the gardener was not justified in "larning" with
a spade the squalid batrachians to be toads; even musical comedies ought not to be criticized
with spade strokes, although in connection with them it is a pity that a spade so rarely has
been called by its proper name. Moreover, one may have an entirely unreasonable prejudice against
the works of the particular dramatist. We all suffer from strange aversions in literary matters.
There are readers of culture who find no pleasure in Borrow, and some nearly shriek at the
mere name of Peacock and so on. In fact we have dislikes founded, or rather unfounded, upon
the basis of Bussy Rabutin's lines:

    "Je ne vous aime point, Hylas;
    Je n'en saurois dire la cause.
    Je sais seulement une chose.
    C'est que je ne vous aime pas."

Next comes an even more intimate personal element--the critic's condition. The day may have
been vexing. The present indecent haste of the income-tax collector may have worried him. His
dinner may have been bad. Perhaps he had to rush off without his coffee; new boots are a conceivable
element; a bad seat in the theatre may annoy him; many managers give better places to their
friends in the profession than to the critics. Before now critics have sat out a boisterous
farce when suffering from an excruciating tooth-ache.

Moreover, some of the principal players may not be to his taste. There are artists of indisputable
merit who are no more palatable to some of us than an untravelled cigar or wines from across
the ocean. Think, then, of the unfortunate critic honestly endeavouring to make reasonable
allowances for all the matters which may have affected him when forming his judgment.

Such elements are wickedly insidious; it is difficult to believe when one is bored that one
would not be bored but for some such adventitious matter. The conscientious critic makes a
great effort to be just under such circumstances, and there is great danger that he may out-Brutus
Brutus--in the opposite direction. It is very galling, after writing a favourable notice on
what seemed to be a tedious play, to have your fellow-workers ask why on earth you treated
it so favourably. Consequently, it will be seen that is it often difficult even for the qualified
to form a true judgment.

Assuming that the critic has formed what he considers a true judgment, and flatters himself
that he is able to find language in which to express it accurately, the question arises how
far he ought to tell the whole truth and nothing but the truth. "Praise, praise, praise," said
Mr Pinero; and there is a fine maxim of Vauvenargues--"C'est un grand signe de médiocrité de
louer toujours modérément."

However, the question whether we are or, worse still, seem mere mediocrities does not greatly
trouble most of us poor "brushers of noblemen's clothes"; by-the-by the expression quoted by
Bacon might serve as an argument in a certain great controversy, if it be assumed that it was
applied to the dramatic critics of his day. Yet unmerited praise on the whole does more harm
than undeserved blame.

On the other hand, truth is wisely kept at the bottom of a well, for the world cannot stand
much of it. Perhaps it is judicious in the critic sometimes to be a little more amiable than
the truth, in order to encourage the beginner and the manager who has given him a chance, and
also sometimes to insist disproportionately upon defects, so as to stir up a too complacent
dramatist of reputation. Moreover, whilst the point is immaterial to the audience, the critic's
expression of a judgment upon a particular piece must vary with the author, since, for instance,
to censure without allowances the work of the tyro for faults of inexperience is obviously
unreasonable, whilst one may easily praise with excess the mere dexterities of the trained
pack. Taking all these matters into account, it will be seen that it is very difficult for
the critic to do his duty, and yet truth will out sometimes in a criticism.

His Stock Phrases

There are moments when the critics think that it might almost be wise to begin their notices
on a new play by dealing with the acting. For the criticism of the acting is the most trying
part of our work, and though, as a rule, it does not occupy more than say a fourth of the article--if
so much--it often takes as long to write as the rest. Indeed, the shorter it is the longer
it takes, for the difficulty of nice employment of language is in direct ratio to the brevity
of matter. With half-a-column in which to move about there is no trouble in finding finely
contrasted adjectives and avoiding repetition of epithets.

We all feel--and correctly--that when the play is new our greatest energy should be devoted
to it. Indeed, there is a strong tendency to adopt the idea contained in a phrase of Mr Gordon
Craig's to the effect that the players are "performers in an orchestra," and since a play is
not like a piece of chamber-music, where the performers are treated individually, but rather
resembles a work performed by a full band, there is an almost valid excuse for paying comparatively
little attention to the acting. Sometimes one makes desperate endeavours to avoid dealing with
the company in a lump at the end by referring in the descriptive account (which is the journalistic
contribution to the criticism) to the individual performers; but it is not easy to do so without
interfering with the course of the description.

There are many difficulties in treating the work of the actors and actresses briefly, but to
handle it at length and in proportion would require a space which editors are unable to give.
No doubt the first of the difficulties is the one already indicated. Wrongly or rightly, it
is felt (even by journalists who do not accept the traditions of The Daily Telegraph) that
there is a poverty-stricken air about the use of the same adjective in consecutive sentences,
and though we try to be honest in opinion, we have a workman's vanity in our efforts which
asserts itself strongly and causes us, at some sacrifice of accuracy, to vary the epithets.

Moreover, single adjectives tell very little.

To say that Mr X. acted admirably, Miss Y. gave a capital performance, Mr Z. played in excellent
style, gives little information, and when there are half-a-dozen to be named it is almost impossible
to ring the changes. Furthermore, perhaps unconsciously, we are moved, fatuously no doubt,
by the feeling that the earlier part of the article is intensely interesting to all the world,
but that no one save the players and their personal friends and enemies will even glance at
these concluding sentences. Yet one knows that they are of serious importance to the persons
actually concerned, though some of them say that they never read them.

The fact that so many theatres are in the hands of actor-managers is one reason why these phrases
are important, for the actor-manager is compelled very often to choose or refuse a player on
the strength of hearsay testimony: ours is hearsay evidence in the most accessible form, and
even the managers have some belief in the soundness of the judgment of several of us. They
all recognise the fact that we tend to create public opinion, and that an actor or actress
much spoken of admiringly in the papers excites the curiosity of playgoers, and is a useful
addition to a cast. Consequently we feel that in speaking of or ignoring individual performers
we are affecting them to some extent in earning their livelihood.

There is a story concerning a critic upon whose death half the stage went into quarter-mourning.
If it be true, it showed that he was very short-sighted in his amiability, for when dealing
with an overcrowded profession one must remember that ill-earned praise of A may keep B, who
is more worthy, from getting A's place, to which, of course, he has a better title. It is very
hard to act upon this proposition, although it involves a duty, for it is much easier to imagine
the positive hurt to A than the negative injury to B; the critic in question probably shut
his eyes to this, if he ever thought of it, and died comfortably unaware of the fact that his
indiscriminating praise had kept many meritorious people out of their rights.

Even supposing one masters the illogical feeling of the lamented critic, difficulties arise.
We have grown very velvet-tongued in these days. There was no nonsense about our predecessors;
if the leading lady was plain, they said so, whilst if one of us were to suggest that the heroine,
whose beauty is talked of tiresomely during the play, in real life might sit in unflattering
safety under mistletoe till the berries shrivelled he would be regarded as an ungentle manlike
brute. This is rather awkward.

There is an injustice in being forced into a conspiracy of silence about the figure or face
of a lady who would catch cold at kiss-in-the-ring, yet is supposed at first sight to set Romeo's
pulses throbbing madly, and when the dear creatures whom we loved a quarter of a century ago
appear to us unsuitable for ingenue parts we feel that it is a terrible breach of duty not
to say so, yet it is painful to be candid.

Now and again the matter becomes ridiculous, and we venture to make oblique suggestions; but
even this is a poor accomplishment of our task. Yet it seems appallingly rude and direct to
say that Miss X. showed intelligence and technical skill, but is too old or too fat or too
ugly for her part; and managers rely upon our reticence and upon pictures in which the sun
helps photographers in a game of deception--perhaps that unfortunate victim of the November
fogs may resent the suggestion of conspiracy, and complain of fraudulent tricks with negatives--and
so the public is deceived. Also, undated photographs are used--fraudulently. This is a very
irksome matter, for our friends are candid about our backwardness, and ask indignantly why
we fail to mention that Miss ---- is ugly enough to stop a clock, or that it is a long day's
walk round the jeune premier at the Footlights Theatre.

Something at least might be done by the managers to help us. They ought to cut the references
to the heroine's beauty when it is obvious that she has none. It may be suggested that is this
hard upon the plain women who possess the mysterious gift of charm. The answer is that no charming
woman is ever plain, even if someone--Voltaire, perhaps--spoke of "les laides charmeuses."

The list of difficult points is not exhausted. For the question arises whether one ought to
mention at all any acting that is not extraordinarily good or bad. As a rule, mediocrity has
to pass unnoticed in this world; in most professions the person whose worth is not above or
below the average is rarely mentioned. Why should an exception be made in case of a player?
If we know that the performance of Miss X. is no better or worse than would have been that
of the average actress, why should we torture our brains to find adjectives concerning her?

Perhaps in dealing with this, attention ought to be drawn to the fact that the point really
relates almost exclusively to criticisms of new plays. When Hamlet is given, or any other classic
drama, by a queer twist one finds in fact that from a journalistic point of view the performance
is of more importance than the piece. We are not expected to add to the intolerable mass of
matter already written about the Prince; nobody cares twopence what we write concerning the
play, since we have nothing to say that has not been said already, and by more important people;
and the curiosity of the public in this case relates only to the acting and the setting.

The Circumstances under which he Writes

A little while ago the critic of an evening paper received a letter partly in the following
words:--"I am deeply grateful to you, but for you, I should not have known that Réjane made
a speech at the end of La Souris. Such morning papers as I saw said nothing about it. Things
have changed sadly, you see. I write slowly, and I hate last acts; they always spoil a play.
I noticed that a little while ago you suggested that it might be a good idea to begin a play
with the last act; the idea is a mere hysteron-proteron, absolutely preposterous, prae-post-erous."
This sounds as if the writer were the ghost of De Quincey.

"In the past I got my morning paper early enough to be able to send down to the office a correction
of any error in my conjectural notice of the last act, and reception of the play, or even a
report of the speech at the end; and if the theatre had been burnt down, or the leading player
had fallen in a fit, I would have sent an account of it, so as not to lose my berth for apparent
inattention to business. There are editors who think that they can get critics strong enough
to sit out the whole of a play. Now, alas! the morning papers do not help me."

Certainly there was a curious and pathetic humour about his position, for one of the features
of the modern journal is that the more "up-to-date" the paper the staler the news. Once upon
a time the ordinary daily went to press at about half-past one; but now the printer's devil
is at rest after midnight in some of these offices, and several terrifically modern morning
papers, a copy of which you can read with your breakfast at Timbuctoo, are completely printed
before the extra-special edition of the evening paper of the (nominal) day before is sold out.
The last statement may only be applicable to the country editions, by which the yokels are
deceived.

The result is strange so far as the theatre is concerned, for on an important occasion even
a writer with such a rapid pen as that of Clement Scott needed the full time-allowance of the
old system. The consequence is seen in two sets of announcements. According to one, there is
to be a répétition générale of several forthcoming plays, which, in plain English, means an
anticipatory performance to a private audience, given in order to assist the critics--or some
of them--in carrying out their duties and fighting the clock, and perhaps also for the purpose
of giving seats to some of the swagger "deadheads" who crowd the stalls on a first night.

The other announcement was by Sir Herbert Tree, that his coming first night was to begin at
seven o'clock, in order that we might have leisure on the same evening for the performance
of our tasks. The representatives of the morning papers have a melancholy choice between having
no time to dine and no time to write.

Perhaps the répétition générale system will come into vogue, but it has disadvantages. For
years it was worked at the Savoy during the days of that theatre's vitality; but the public
rehearsal was a real rehearsal, with three rows of stalls left empty for the to-and-fro of
people directing the performance, and scenes were acted over again and songs resung. A procession
in Utopia Limited was sent back half-a-dozen times because it did not reach a particular position
on the stage at the right moment.

Répétitions of this character--and, it may be, of any character--are not wholly satisfactory
to the critic. There is a sham-fight air about them--a good many of the players cannot work
themselves up to the full fury of real combat; they are affected by the fact that the affair
is not exactly genuine. One can even imagine that some of them say to themselves, "It will
be all right on the night," and justice is by no means restored even if the critic afterwards
sees the first public performance. The dress rehearsal has left him somewhat unfairly cold,
because the circumstances were hostile, and in most cases a second dose of the affair within
twenty-four hours makes him colder still, since, unless the work is the rare masterpiece, he
does not wish to see it twice within a space of less than forty-eight hours, or years. No doubt
the public will get the benefit of the critic's views as to the nature of the reception, since,
having already written his notice, which he is not likely to alter in the least degree so far
as impressions of the piece and acting are concerned, he will have plenty of time for a last
paragraph about the "boos" or cheers and the non-appearance of the author or the speech.

There was even a third announcement, for the critic of the paper lovingly called The Tizer
by the members of the industry whose interests it protects with the utmost vehemence of laborious
alliteration stated that in the future his first-night notices would only contain an account
of the plot and reception, to which presumably were to be added the words Cur adv. vult--let
us hope there was no misunderstanding as to the middle word--whilst a day later his considered
judgment was to be given.

Certainly this method is not quite a novelty, and has often been recommended. Probably the
reason why it has not hitherto been adopted has been the repugnance to it of the critics, based
on a sneaking belief that the public does not take enough interest in criticism of the drama
to read the second notice, on which, of course, the writer would have bestowed the greater labour.

There is something very human in the belief; few of us have sufficient self-confidence to fancy
that the public does more than glance at a notice to discover what sort of piece it deals with,
and whether it was well received, and is the sort of thing the reader wants to see; and we
fear there is only a very small percentage that pays any attention to our finest phrases, aptest
quotations, and subtlest evidence of acquaintance with the easy aids to universal knowledge.

Indeed, we have a humiliating certainty that our friends would never get beyond the account
of the plot and the reception and remarks about individual performers in whom they happen to
take particular interest, friendly or otherwise. Moreover, it is to be noted that the public
has come to doubt the value of the first-night receptions which we record, the fact being incontestable
that a good deal of the applause is quite unreal.

Perhaps an advantage of the répétition générale system will be that if the managements can
only persuade their friends that it is more chic to be at the répétition than the first performance
we shall have genuine audiences at premières, whose verdict will be of real weight.

There are certain difficulties about the new system. The invitation performance is an admirable
means for the manufacture of enmities: to classify one's friends into boxes, stalls, dress
circle, etc., is no doubt to have a delightful opportunity of snubbing people, but it is sure
to breed bitter quarrels; whilst on the other hand, to let the guests shift for themselves
creates no little trouble and imposes a very difficult task upon the attendants. It sounds
easy under such circumstances to reserve places for the critics, but unless they come a long
time in advance they are not likely to get them.

His Fear of Libel Actions

Some while ago--it was in 1902-1903--the critics were aghast--editors, too, perhaps. Mr Justice
Ridley had permitted a jury to give £100 as damages for libel in respect of a dramatic criticism
less severe than dozens that most of us have written: it was said that some critics consulted
their solicitors as to the best means of rendering their property "judgment proof"--a picturesque
term that comes from America.

Later on the Court of Appeal interfered effectively, though possibly many actions were begun
and settled before the appeal was heard; and it was held that in a libel action founded upon
a criticism written concerning a work of art, unless there is some evidence of malice it is
the judge's duty to consider whether the criticism can fairly be construed as being outside
the range of fair comment, and if he thinks that the comments lie within the range of criticism
he should decide the case in favour of the defendant, and not let it go to the jury. Then the
critics breathed again, and the story goes that Fleet Street laid in a large stock of vitriol.

The next, and at present last, act in the matter was the recovery by Mr Frederick Moy Thomas
of £300 damages for a libel which appeared in Punch upon his book called "Fifty Years of Fleet
Street." Although the matter related to a book, and not to a play, the dramatic critics felt
anxious again, because no distinction could be drawn between criticisms upon the two kinds
of work. The case was peculiarly interesting to the dramatic critics because the plaintiff,
who had been one of our craft for some length of time, enjoyed the reputation of being very
learned in matters connected with the drama, as well as sound and conscientious.

Moreover, his father, William Moy Thomas, whose name was introduced into the case, was for
many years past one of the most esteemed and admired of our profession, owing to his knowledge,
fairness, judgment and excellence of style. The Court of Appeal upheld the verdict, and Punch's
record of long existence without a verdict against it for libel is spoilt. Its licence, the
licence of a nation's jester, has been endorsed.

It may be asked whether this is not a mere matter for the craft: in reality the public is concerned.
The letter written by one friend to another, gossiping about a play or a book or a picture,
exposes the writer to an action for libel unless it can be protected on the ground of truth,
privilege or fair comment; and casually written remarks concerning any matter of public interest
may result in damages and costs. Indeed, to put the matter simply, the professional critics
have no greater rights or privileges of criticism than any member of the public. It is therefore
very important to all of us to know how the matter stands, and since the judgment of the Master
of the Rolls is rather technical, it seems worth while briefly to state the law in unscientific
phrases.

The written opinion upon any matter of public interest--a play, a book, a piece of music, a
picture, the speech of a politician, the sermon of a parson, the behaviour of a general, the
conduct of an admiral, the methods of a judge, etc.--must fulfil two conditions. It must be
honest and it must be expressed fairly in the point of form. In the "Ridley" action the honesty
of the opinion was admitted, and the question arose whether the opinion was fair in form. In
the famous Whistler v. Ruskin cause there was no doubt about the critic's honesty--fancy doubting
Ruskin's honesty! However, the jury thought that he went too far in his phrase "nearly approached
the aspect of wilful imposture," and probably the word "coxcomb" was fatal, for it was irrelevant.

It might almost be said that relevancy is the test of fairness in the form of a criticism.
It was irrelevant as well as inaccurate to speak of a "naughty wife" in a criticism upon The
Whip Hand, because there was "no naughty wife" in the play, and therefore the jury gave one
shilling damages and the Court of Appeal upheld the verdict.

In criticism of a book, play, picture, etc., the private life and character of the author are
irrelevant; even his character as author, except in relation to the particular work or works
criticized, is irrelevant. If you think that a book or play is immoral or indecent, say so,
say so strongly, and if the criticism, though unsound, represents your honest opinion you will
escape; but it is irrelevant to say that the author caused it to be immoral or indecent in
order to obtain a succès de scandale, and you must prove that charge to be true or be punished.
There is a distinction between alleging that Smith's book, "The Biography of Brown," is dull,
and that Smith is a writer of dull books--ex pede Herculem would not be a valid plea.

If honest and discreet in language you may be abominably incorrect in opinion. You are at liberty
to say that a composition by Strauss is a mess of hideous sounds, that one of Sargent's pictures
is ridiculous, that a novel by Meredith is tiresome, but you must be very careful, when criticizing
a particular work, if you make general allegations concerning the author. Nevertheless, it
is permissible to criticize the works of a dramatist generally upon a reasonable opportunity;
yet there is a danger of your getting into trouble on the point of honesty, for it is not honest
to comment upon his works generally unless you are well acquainted with them.

To sum up: if the opinion expressed is honest and relevant, then mere unsoundness of judgment
will not hurt you. The opinion of the jury, or even of the judge, is not to be substituted
for yours, otherwise we should have to burn our pens. There is sense in this. The butcher,
the baker, the candlestick-maker, and even the learned judge, may have less knowledge of art,
or less taste in music, than the starving critic of Fleet Street.

Honesty is the other element. Yet it has been suggested, though unsuccessfully, that honesty
is not a necessary ingredient in the defence of "fair comment." It was argued that a criticism,
defensible if written by an honest critic, could not be indefensible because written by one
whose motive was malicious--in other words, that the matter was objective, not subjective.
Certainly, at first sight, it seems strange that A can say with impunity that Smith's book
is dull and B may have to pay damages for saying the same thing in the same words. Clearly
the injury to the author may be the same in each case, might be greater in A's if he wrote
for a paper of larger circulation than the one which published "B's" criticism.

On the other hand, few acts can be regarded in law from the point of view of their consequences
only. Smith may be killed by "A" or "B," and the former, on account of the circumstances, may
commit non-culpable homicide, the latter murder.

To eliminate the ingredient of malice or, and it is the same thing, to say that a criticism
need not be honest might lead to shocking consequences. The skilful craftsman would be able
to write a fiendish criticism with impunity and boast of the gratification of his hatred. There
is no half-way house. A plaintiff must be entitled to offer evidence to a jury that the so-called
critic has stated that, although he called the plaintiff's book dull and clumsy, he really
thought it a delightful masterpiece; or he must be limited to inviting judge and jury to study
the defendant's article. Who would be satisfied that justice had not slept if such evidence
were excluded?

If, then, you dislike the author, dip your pen in honey rather than in vinegar or, wiser still,
leave his work alone. You must be more than human not to be biassed and if, to contradict the
bias, you praise the book against your judgment, you act wrongly as a critic. What is honesty?
There is the crux. Courts of law are but man-made machinery and very imperfect, juries are
often very stupid, even judges--but perhaps we ought to pause here. Consequently, if the author
has any grounds for suggesting that you are ill-disposed towards him, and yet you must act
as critic (amateur or professional), be scrupulously relevant and decidedly colourless. At
present the honesty has not been analysed by the courts; some day the question will be raised
whether competence is not a necessary ingredient. Could a Gautier who hated music honestly
criticize a symphony; could a blind man honestly criticize a picture? These are extreme cases,
and a line must be drawn somewhere. Still, some day the courts may require the defendant to
give evidence of his fitness to act as a critic if his fitness be challenged. To these remarks
one obvious matter should be added. All statements of fact in a criticism must be accurate.
The line between matters of fact and matters of opinion is sometimes fine, but the law is clear.
An allegation of fact is not comment, and all such allegations, if injurious, must be justified--that
is--proved to be true, if the defence of fair comment is pleaded.

CHAPTER II

THE DRAMATIC CRITIC

His Duty to be Tolerant

Some remarks which appeared in a popular weekly paper concerning Mrs Patrick Campbell's Deirdre
and Electra deserve a little consideration. One of the critics attached to the paper spoke
of the affair as being an "indifferent performance of indifferent tragedies," and then said
it was "a simple affectation to profess to enjoy it," and that it was not, "as some people
seem to think, a mark of culture, but only of insufficient culture not to acknowledge that
one is bored by this kind of thing."

An affronted critic wrote to the paper, complaining of the charge of affectation and insufficient
culture, and was promptly rebuked as a "bumptious correspondent," and told that his letter
convinced the critic that he was one of those affected persons whose misdirected zeal the writer
deplored. This attitude is not a novelty. Many of the critics, at one period, charged the professed
admirers of Wagner with being impostors or imbeciles; later on, anyone who professed to like
the pictures of Whistler or Rossetti or Burne-Jones, or of any of the Impressionists, was accused
of affectation. When Ibsen was introduced to England the conservative critics raved, and alleged
that the Ibsenites (or "Obscenites"--the word was considered very witty) were humbugs; this
was one of the least offensive charges. The same kind of thing happened in the case of Maeterlinck.
Many other instances might be cited.

It is a curious form of attack. Why should a critic who alleged that he had much pleasure and
certainly no boredom from Mr Yeats' play and Mrs Campbell's beautiful acting, be charged with
affectation and also with insufficient culture? Of course, the critics are insufficiently cultured.
There are thousands of plays and books that they ought to have read, of dramas they ought to
have witnessed, of pictures they ought to have seen, masses of music they ought to have heard--and
have not--and, therefore, they are persons of very insufficient culture. But the writer in
question should offer some evidence of his own sufficiency of culture before alleging that
the critic's opinion concerning the play and the performance was due to a lack of culture.

After all, one would seem entitled to express an opinion on a question of art or pleasure without
being called a liar by someone who takes a different view. The matter is one of some importance
because the attack is insidious and dangerous. The deadliest weapon in the hands of the critic
is the allegation of boredom. You can say that a piece is vulgar, indelicate, inartistic, indecent,
full of "chestnuts," old-fashioned, "melodramatic," ill-constructed or unoriginal, without
doing fatal injury, but if you allege that you and everybody else suffered from boredom your
attack may be fatal. This is the reason why the charge is so often made by people with strong
prejudices.

There is something to be said on both sides. No doubt the lovers of the severer form of drama,
the worshippers of Shaw, the playgoers who supported the societies of which the Independent
Theatre was the first and regarded the Court Theatre for a while as a kind of Mecca, are not
always judicious when talking about musical comedy and comic opera, and some of them have been
very narrow-minded. They have refused to admit the merit of any comic operas, except those
of Gilbert and Sullivan, they have lavished indiscriminating abuse upon almost all others,
have looked upon Daly's Theatre and the Gaiety and the Prince of Wales' as so many Nazareths.
This, of course, has caused a great deal of annoyance to the lovers of musico-dramatic work.

Moreover, some of the austere folk have denounced melodrama and farce, and the so-called romantic
comedy, without drawing nice distinctions. This indiscriminate denunciation has naturally caused
annoyance and reprisals. Because some critics disliked A Chinese Honeymoon enormously, because
wild motor 'buses could not drag them to see The Scarlet Pimpernel, they do not doubt, or pretend
to doubt, that hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of people have enjoyed these pieces.
Without for one moment believing in the phrase "De gustibus non est disputandum" as ordinarily
interpreted, one must fully recognise that palates differ. If M. Steinheil chose to dine upon
cold pork-pie, sausage, cold veal and lobster as the papers allege, it is not surprising that
he died, only a little amazing that the French police were puzzled as to the cause of his death,
but there was no reason for charging him with affectation in eating such a meal or insufficient
culture, though it was hardly the banquet of a gourmet. One may pull a wry face at a costly
Bouillabaisse chez Roubillon at Marseilles without doubting that poor old "G.A.S.," and Thackeray
too, loved the dish. Some prefer homely beer to any of the white wines of the Rhine, yet many
people honestly enjoy those high-priced varieties of weak-minded vinegar; and no doubt it is
not affectation which causes some people to allege that they like black pudding and tripe and
onions.

The matter has its serious aspect. The attacks made, very unfairly, upon the novel forms of
drama by conservative critics, when they take this form of alleging that not only the critic
but the audience was bored, and that professed admirers are insincere, undoubtedly are very
effective, and certainly are sometimes made in good faith.

There are people so foolish as to think that nobody can like what they do not; also so fatuous
as to consider that no one ought to like what they do not; but to jump from this to alleging
that the professed admirers of ambitious works are humbugs is outrageous. The butcher boy enjoys
Sweeney Todd, the Barber of Fleet Street: why should he disbelieve my statement that others
get pleasure from a performance of a Hedda Gabler, which would hardly appeal to him?

Large numbers of playgoers have been kept away from able and ambitious dramas, written by dramatists
with a true artistic aim, because of the oft-repeated allegations by newspaper writers, who
did not like them, that everybody was bored; also the wholesale denunciation of the lighter
forms of dramatic and musico-dramatic forms of entertainment by some of the critics has weakened
their influence, has led the man in the street to think that if Mr X. or Y. or Z. can find
no pleasure in what he likes that he will get no entertainment from what they admire. One supposes,
at least hopes, that dramatic critics of all kinds and grades have an honest desire for the
advance and success of British Drama. They will hardly be successful in their wishes unless
on each side a little more tolerance is shown for the opinions professed by members of the other.

His Sympathies when Young

In some criticisms on certain demi-semi-private performances given in London by a well-known
French actress and her company there seemed to be a note not often discoverable in English
articles dealing with the theatre. It appeared as if several of the writers had a kind of fierce
exultation in the thought that the play represented was likely to shock a good many people--people
presumably entitled to have their feelings considered seriously. In the annals of English art
there has been rather a scanty exhibition of the desire to do what may be most easily described
by two French phrases, "épater le bourgeois" or "ébouriffer le bourgeois."

It is, in fact, noticeable that we possess no recognised English set phrase, such as "to startle
the Philistine" or "to ruffle the hair of the Philistine." Indeed, before Matthew Arnold imported
the term Philistine from Germany, as equivalent in art matters to the French "le bourgeois"
or the later expression "l'épicier," we really had nothing at all to correspond with these
terms. For to shock "Mrs Grundy" is quite off the point. This is the more remarkable because
the bourgeois feeling--treated, by the way, admirably in Balzac's short story "Pierre Grassou"--has
long been the curse of English art, and, as represented by the Royal Academy, still remains
a paramount power for evil.

It cannot be said that the desire to "ébouriffer le bourgeois" often leads to valuable results
so far as the works intended to accomplish the feat are concerned, although it is possible
that some of them have otherwise had a beneficial result. Another French phrase, "pour activer
la digestion," contains a hint that such an attempt may indirectly render service to art. Our
popular ideas of medical treatment have never adopted the theory suggested by the foreign phrase,
which is that when the digestive apparatus is sluggish it is advisable to eat something violently
indigestible so that the stomach, summoning all its forces to deal with the intruder, may be
aroused to a state of activity. This is a kind of theory to be tried on the dog--not your own
dog, of course.

Yet it may be that an occasional slap in the face of the public in respect of artistic matters
awakens it from the complacent state of lethargy in which it lies with regard to most questions
of art.

The young English dramatist has very few opportunities of making the hair of the Philistine
stand on end or activating his digestion; he is worse off than the youthful British painter
who, as those that have haunted the English studios and the ateliers on the Surrey side of
the Seine well know, can give a kind of birth to his insults to the taste of the churchwarden.
Once down upon canvas a picture is at least half-alive, whilst nothing is more pitifully dead
than the audacious play in manuscript.

The Théâtre de l'Oeuvre gave to French revolutionaries in dramatic art the chance of setting
the Seine on fire, but the Censor has allowed our playwrights little scope. The evasion of
his authority by means of nominally private performances has brought into brief life on the
boards very few pieces in my time in which one can really see evidence of the youthful desire
to shock the Philistine. In Ghosts, Les Trois Filles de M. Dupont, and Monna Vanna, though
all three were prohibited by the authority, there is no sign of the particular element in question.
The first two are serious, sober studies of social problems, not intended to shock or startle
but to educate the orthodox. The prohibition of the third was simply an official blunder in
relation to a dignified work of art.

On the other hand there is a trace of the spirit in Mrs Warren's Profession, and Salome seems
full of it. Curiously enough, in some of the permitted dramas by Mr Bernard Shaw there is evidence
of this desire. Mr Shaw often seems to be saying, "I'm going to make your flesh creep." He
is a brilliant dramatist, and also, desperately in earnest, and it may well be that they are
right who think that his plays will live along after the death of most English works produced
since the public and critics were bewildered at the first performance of Widowers' Houses,
and he certainly appears to adopt as a policy the theory of stirring up into activity the lethargic
stomach of the British playgoer by devices carefully calculated to make him howl.

Salome stands in another category: the author had no lesson to teach. As a work of art his
play would not be invalidated or even weakened if, instead of the biblical characters and phrases,
he had invented his prophet, slightly altered time and place, and left out the quotations;
but to have done this would have been to avoid shocking people. Of course it is not always
easy to be certain whether an audacity is employed with the desire to "ébouriffer le bourgeois"
that may be excusable, or with the object of beating the big drum and calling attention, ignobly,
to the existence of a work which, but for such means of publicity, might have remained unnoticed.
In the case of Salome it is hard to guess to which of these two motives one ought to ascribe
the choice of treatment made by the lamentable man of genius who illustrated the truth of the
theory advocated by the late dramatic critic of The Times in his work "The Insanity of Genius."

Such audacities often deceive the youthful critic, and, in some of the notices referred to,
the signs of youth are manifest in the ill-balanced enthusiasm, as well as in the employment
of phrases of praise which the old hand shirks with a curious kind of bashfulness.

In criticism there is a difficulty analogous to that which is supposed to beset the performance
of the part of Juliet; it is rather nicely put in the title of one of Béranger's poems--and
also of a rather dreary, once popular, novel, "Si Jeunesse Savait, si Vieillesse Pouvait."
In youth one has intense sympathy with the lost causes, or, rather, with those that have not
yet been found, and superb contempt for the conventional, without possessing the judgment to
distinguish the tares from the wheat; every novelty attracts, every audacity appeals, and we
introduce obscure artists of alleged genius by the dozen to an unsympathetic world; as age
and judgment come enthusiasm wanes, till at last the inevitable crystallization begins and
new ideas beat vainly at the doors of our minds.

Even before the crystallization has become serious it is very hard to appreciate the rare novelties
of idea offered in our theatres; weariness of stale conventions which affects the young critic
in a less degree than the old, does not easily induce one to accept mere outrages upon them.
Salome, indeed, has some outrages upon stale conventions, but they are rather stale outrages.

Certain French comedies have reduced unconventionality in morals to a kind of spurious conventionality;
in some of them the idea of marriage as a preliminary to connubial relations is regarded as
rather shocking. Some day Madame Granier will hide her face in her hands, shameful at the insult
of "married woman" hurled at her; and our youthful critic will admire the audacity. Caution
requires the statement that it was not Madame Granier who gave the semi-demi-private performances:
honesty compels one to admit that these remarks constitute a moan about lost youth, and are
full of envy, hatred and malice towards those blessed with splendidly indiscreet enthusiasm
for flaunting audacity in artistic matters.

The Jaded Critic

At this, the season of the country cousin, the gift and sometimes receipt of game, the abandonment
of autumn underclothing and the overhauling of pike tackle, a question is often put to the
critic. It comes from the country cousin, and is generally in these words or thereabouts: "What
piece ought we to take tickets for?" which generally has an under-surface suggestion, and might
be translated into: "For what theatre are you going to get us seats?" Of course we are dense
enough not to notice that the inquiry is more than skin-deep; the question of "paper" for the
critics is not one concerning which it is necessary or desirable to write. The answer to the
surface inquiry generally provokes a discussion. In a guarded way the critic makes a reply
containing the formula "I think you would like ----" which does not altogether please the inquirer.
For the country cousin suspects the existence of a lurking insult to him upon the point of
taste or intelligence.

The end of it is always, or nearly, the same, and to the effect that of course we "jaded critics"
do not really care about any pieces at all, and only visit the theatre because we are paid
to go, and that it is awfully unfair that such "jaded"--one cannot help insisting upon the
word "jaded"--people should be allowed to act as critics. It has been suggested bluntly that
we ought to be dismissed after fifteen years' labour, and of course, if there were a pension--but
then we are no better off in that respect than county-court judges.

Yet even the cleverest country cousin cannot suggest any useful employment for superannuated,
middle-aged dramatic critics.

No doubt we have been advising our cousins quite wisely as to what is likely to please them,
for if we learn nothing else by our labour we certainly get to know what kind of play and performance
is to the taste of other people.

Sometimes one asks oneself what truth there is in the jaded critic theory. It cannot be pretended
that a man who goes to the theatre three times or so a week pays each visit in the hopeful
state of mind or with the expectation of intense enjoyment possible to those who only patronize
the playhouse now and then and pick their pieces. Indeed, he very often sets out with the knowledge
that he is going to pass a dull evening. If he is unable to guess that, his experience will
have told him little and his capacity is small. Moreover, he cannot be expected to take such
pleasure in the average play as if his visits were rare, and what has been said about the play
necessarily applies to the acting.

Sometimes when watching a work of common quality, a painful idea comes into one's mind, and
we wonder how people, compelled to see it night after night perhaps for half-a-year, can endure
the strain. What, for instance, must be the sufferings of the conductor or of a member of the
orchestra at a successful second-rate musical comedy; of a stage manager compelled for months,
one after another, to direct a brainless farce? Of course the people lumped together in the
technical term as "the front of the house" have a remedy, and after the first night or two
only appear in the auditorium when the curtain is down, or, to be more accurate, just before
it descends, when all hands are expected to be on deck.

There are critics that resemble the person who denied that any beer could be bad, and would
sooner pass an evening in a theatre watching a mediocre play acted in a style no better than
it deserves than at home in a well-stocked library. They resemble the journalist in a story
by Balzac who, when blind, haunted a newspaper office and revelled in the smell of printers'
ink, and they have been known for their own pleasure to pay a second visit to a piece on which
they wrote a condemnatory criticism. In fact, they have the curious mania for the theatre which
induces many people with no talent for acting to abandon comfortable careers and starve on
the stage--or at the stage door.

That the critic's sufferings in the playhouse are considerable is incontestable, and they are
keener at the performance of works of mediocrity than when watching very bad plays. Fortunately
there are two sides to every hedge. When the play has any touch of originality, or even novelty,
our pleasure is far keener than that of the unsophisticated, and we often perceive originality
or novelty where the public notices none. A whole field of enjoyment is open to us in the triumphs
of technique which is almost untrodden by the general public. Our poles of pain and pleasure
are farther apart than those of the Man in the Street. There have been pieces and performances
concerning which the praise of the critics, or some of them, has seemed mere raving to the
ordinary playgoer. Several actors and actresses whom we prefer to some of the popular favourites
have been banished from London by the indifference of Londoners, and there are "stars" beloved
in the theatres who irritate the observant because they have never learnt their art, and nevertheless
triumph by mere force of personality.

No doubt the critics, so far as acting is concerned, often--very often--fall into an error
and censure acting which does not move them yet impresses the audience, forgetting that it
is the advantage and disadvantage of the actor that he need only affect, and must affect, those
before him, and that to move only a minority of a normal audience is to act badly. One may
write but cannot act for posterity, and therefore the actor, the pianist, the violinist, and
the like should not be grudged their noisy, obvious demonstrations of admiration.

Does the critic really get jaded? Is it unfair that the "jaded" critic should deal with the
average play? In answering the latter question one should consider whether the notices of the
younger critics, too fresh to have become jaded, are more valuable than those of the veterans.
Perhaps the two questions should be treated together.

Most critics do get jaded. The critic is jaded when he is saturated with theatrical impressions
and cannot take up any more, when new pieces merely recall memories of old pieces or are disliked
and distrusted because they do not. After a certain age, varying with the individual, all,
or almost all, of us gradually move towards a condition of repugnance to new ideas--a repugnance
that becomes hatred when they are inconsistent with the old theories that have grown to be
part of ourselves as well as of our stock-in-trade; and when this movement has gone far we
are "jaded," are unfit to estimate the value of new ideas; we are still competent to apply
the old theories to plays and acting based on them, but of course cumber the ground and retard
progress. In youth, having few theories of our own or that have cost us enough labour in acquirement
to seem very precious, we tend to be over-hospitable to new ideas and accept dangerous guests.

The notices of the veterans, even of the jaded, upon the average work are sounder, as a rule,
than those of the young hands, because the latter very often mistake things merely new to them
for things actually new, and they are kinder for the reason that the writers know how great
are the difficulties in the way of writing plays from a novel standpoint and of getting them
produced when written. There is less violence in their views.

Happy the critic during the years when he is old enough to be cautious about accepting new
ideas and young enough to be enthusiastic concerning them after careful consideration, when
he is so mature as not to desire to stagger the orthodox by the impudence of his opinions,
and sufficiently youthful to be willing to shock the conservative by the audacity of his views.
He may then seem jaded because he is not easily moved, but will be quicker to give encouragement
to sincere effort, to perceive talent imperfectly manifested, and to appreciate technical triumphs
than when he was younger and yet able to welcome novel ideas even if they assail cherished
theories.

His Unpaid Labours

Probably many of the craft have wasted a good deal of the last few first-nightless weeks in
the trying task of reading plays, not the printed plays by dramatists of reputation, but the
manuscripts with which we, or some of us, are flooded. It is hard to guess why strangers should
assume that we are willing to spend our time in reading their plays, but they do. Some apparently
deem it to be part of our duties, and even believe that there exists a Government fund which
pays our expenses of postages and stationery, for many of the amateur authors make no provision
for the return of their work. Occasionally there comes a suggestion that we are really conferring
no favour because the pleasure of reading the play will pay for our pains. Some imagine us
to be agents for the managers. Even the proposal to pay a commission if we place the piece
is not rare; now and then it is wrapped up gracefully, but frequently is expressed in the bluntest
fashion.

Upon consideration of the batch lately waded through several things stand out. Firstly, most
of them exhibit no trace of cleverness; so far as one can see the writers are people without
any gift at all for writing--for writing anything--but are ordinary commonplace people who,
unless their conversation is more brilliant than their written matter, would not be considered
clever by their friends in everyday life.

They write farces or comedies, in an orthodox form, which contain a surprisingly small number
of jokes or efforts at wit and humour. Their works have the air of being mere preliminary plays--the
playwrights apparently have set out scenes and written dialogue intended to indicate the nature
of the proposed piece with the view afterwards not, indeed of polishing, for there is nothing
to polish, but of rewriting, putting in the vital passages during the process. One cannot offer
any useful advice to these people, save that of suggesting they should turn their attention
to gardening or golf. They have only one fault, and it is that they have no quality. Such writers,
as a rule, have at least one small quite useless virtue--their pieces are not ridiculously
unsuitable in point of form for the stage.

A more interesting class consists of authors who possess some talent and no idea how to use
it. They write comedies which have some clever passages, some lines witty enough to deserve
a laugh, and exhibit capacity in character-drawing, but are not at all in an acceptable form.
A comedy in six acts, with twenty scenes, would not be considered for a moment by a modern manager.

We have returned in a curious way to something like the ideas underlying "the unities"; perhaps
that statement is incorrect, but, at least, we have put upon our dramatists certain working
laws almost as embarrassing as the unities. The average playgoer has no idea of the skill involved
in writing the ordinary successful comedy of the present time.

The modern dramatist has nothing approaching the licence of his predecessors. Construction
was comparatively easy in the time of a Sheridan or a Goldsmith; not only were they allowed
to use explanatory dialogue, in which A told B a number of things which B knew already, because
the author desired the audience to learn them; but they were permitted to give direct statements
of fact in soliloquies. Such licence has gone: asides are dead, statements of fact in soliloquies
are only permitted in formal tragedies. Moreover, having the right to make almost an unlimited
number of changes of scenery, they were enabled to present in action the facts which in our
days have to be told to the audience in dialogue--dialogue written under severe limitations.
In consequence, the mechanical difficulties of construction were then very small. Nowadays,
except in the case of melodrama, complicated stories have to be told in three or four acts,
with no change of scenery during an act.

Let anyone who doubts whether this creates a difficulty take an ordinary famous old comedy
and rewrite it in a form in which it would be accepted as a new play by a London manager, and
he will find the difficulty enormous. To the youthful dramatist this exercise is very valuable
means of studying the art of construction. When, unassisted by the work of former adapters,
he has succeeded in converting half-a-dozen eighteenth-century comedies into three or four
act comedies, without any changes of scenery during an act, and has used all the matter of
the old comedies in his versions and yet avoided the employment of the soliloquy, or the aside,
or the explanatory dialogue in which A tells B what B knows already, he will have learnt a
great deal of his craft. This explanatory dialogue is the sort of passage in which a son reminds
his mother of the date of his birth, and the profession of his father, and of the period when
she sent him to school and so on.

It may be doubted confidently whether a change of style, which has increased so enormously
the practical difficulties of writing acceptable plays, has been beneficial to drama. There
are writers with wit and a sense of character who under the freer system of old days might
have produced successful plays, but are never able to acquire the mechanical skill now demanded,
and are kept off the stage by artificial regulations, some of them not based upon essential
ideas of drama but in reality upon questions connected with scenery.

One cannot have many changes of the elaborate scenery nowadays employed in comedy, and the
illusion sought and to some extent obtained by these costly, complicated sets makes the very
useful carpenter's scene impossible. It often happens that incongruities and absurdities in
modern plays are due to desperate efforts to overcome these difficulties. Scenes take place
in the drawing-room that ought to have been out of doors; things are said that should have
been done; and there are long passages of dialogue where short scenes of action would be preferable.

In a large number of cases the manuscripts we read are unacceptable because the authors have
not complied with these requirements of the modern stage; and it is impossible for us, with
the best will in the world, to reconstruct the works. We can only point out, regretfully, that
they do not comply with these modern regulations, and we know quite well that the dramatists
will be unable to make the necessary changes. The modern system has had the great disadvantage
of putting out of the range of the average writer of comedy a good many subjects that deserve
treatment, but can only be handled with success by writers of great experience or those who
possess remarkable gifts for the semi-mechanical work of construction, which are not necessarily
allied to the higher qualities needed by the dramatist.

Of course, some of the manuscripts are ridiculous: five-act plays that would not last an hour
and a half upon the stage and three-act comedies which would require an evening per act; tragedies
in rhymed verse not up to the standard of cracker poetry. It is difficult to understand how
such things come to be written. The authors must sometimes go to the theatre or read plays,
and therefore ought to know that their works are unsuitable, and that they are wasting money
in getting their stuff typewritten. Presumably the phenomenon is somehow connected with the
curious glamour of the stage. The person who would not dream of trying to cook a chop without
some little study of the methods of the kitchen will try to write farce or comedy or tragedy
and not deem it necessary seriously to consider the elementary laws governing such works.

His Letter Bag

Possibly the editor sometimes looks with curiosity at the envelopes of letters addressed to
a dramatic critic at the editorial office. Let us trust that in the case of those envelopes
obviously bearing a lady's handwriting curiosity is not tinged with suspicion. Letters directed
to "The Dramatic Editor" are generally American, and contain statements of tremendous importance
concerning, as a rule, people of whom one has never heard and requesting the critic to publish
them in the next issue of "his" paper.

The documents forwarded by the office are only a tithe of those which come to the critic officially,
there being several ways of ascertaining addresses. Many consist of requests to read plays,
and exhibit pitifully the strange blindness of parents. A number are almost according to a
pattern and run about thus: "DEAR SIR,--Having been a constant reader of your admirable criticisms
and sharing sincerely your views about the drama, now, alas! in such a deplorable condition,
I feel that there is sufficient sympathy between us for you to be anxious to read the MS. that
I enclose and give me your candid opinion about it ["candid" is generally underlined], and
if you share the opinion that my friends entertain concerning its merits you will perhaps be
of assistance to me in getting it brought to the attention of the managers." With this there
arrives, unaccompanied by stamps for its return, some work of a hopeless character, often an
indifferent specimen of the sort of mechanical farce which, even when good, amuses us little.

Occasionally a romantic drama is received. Once there came a really touching letter from a
lady in great trouble on account of want of money, such trouble that she not only failed to
enclose stamps for return of her MS. but did not use half enough to frank the heavy packet.
She felt sure that the novelty of her plot would make up for any trifling defects due to inexperience.
The drama, which was full of "Gadzooks!" and the like, and Roundheads and Cavaliers, concerned
Oliver Cromwell and Charles I., and included a plot to rescue the unhappy monarch on the scaffold,
which was only frustrated by the direct intervention of "Old Noll," who, after a struggle,
used the axe with his own hands. It had seven acts and thirty-three scenes.

We read scores of these pieces, and in most cases our "candid" criticism is not well received.
Ere now the reward for the unpaid labour of five or six hours has been a postcard explaining
that the author can well understand the deplorable condition of our drama, seeing how incompetent
the critics are. There is, of course, another side to the matter. A few pieces--a very small
proportion, alas!--have merit, and a few of the authors of the few pieces accept the unpaid
critic's remarks reasonably.

Another crop consists of letters from indignant authors or players, which contain argument
or abuse, or both. The epistles from authors in some cases are so interesting that it is sad
to think we are too obscure to have a biographer who might use them. Those of the players have
their humours, particularly when from the aggrieved actresses. One deserves to be mentioned;
it stated that, reading between the lines, the lady understood the critic to suggest she was
too old for the part of Juliet, and therefore sent a copy of her birth certificate.

It was only a copy--there was only her word to show that it was a copy of her certificate;
in the law courts they will not accept your own evidence that you are a minor, even if you
bring a certificate issued by Somerset House; they want proof of your being the person named
in the certificate. If the letter had contained a photograph it would have shown that, although
alleged to be only twenty-two years old, the lady weighed about 200 lbs., and had a large,
flat face, with an inadequate pug-nose.

In a number of cases one is implored to come to the Pier Concert Hall at Flushington-on-Sea,
or the like, because, "owing to your appreciative remarks about my performance as the Second
Gravedigger in Hamlet, I am sure you would like to see my King Lear." These give a good deal
of trouble, because it is difficult to decline without hurting feelings. Another branch lies
in the simple request from people with whom one is unacquainted for introduction to managers
whom one does not know.

Fortunately there is another and a pleasanter side. There are letters that we prize, and unfortunately
cannot quote, from authors, generally young authors, with thanks for words of encouragement,
particularly in relation to unsuccessful work that seemed to have been unlucky; and there are
letters from actors and actresses, speaking with gratitude--gratitude unearned, since only
duty has been done--for words of praise which have helped to get an engagement or at least
to give courage where hope had grown faint. They must be difficult letters to write, since
it is clear that the writers generally feel doubtful whether they ought to be written. An ingenious
phrase from one of them may be quoted: "I can hardly be taking a liberty in giving a harmless
pleasure to a stranger, and I am sure from what I have read of your criticisms that it will
be a pleasure to you to know that you have given great comfort and encouragement to one whom
you deem worthy of praise."

Last of all are letters from persons who are or profess to be impartial critics of our criticisms,
and desire to cause us to change our opinions. An unimportant article--a second-hand article
borrowed from Charles Lamb--concerning the effect, on the stage, of Shakespeare's dramas has
brought in a respectable revenue to the Post Office, whilst correspondence concerning the wickedness
of praising problem plays, however interesting, must have substantially helped some stationers
to pay their rent. Fewer but far more exasperating are the epistles in which people express
their hearty agreement with opinions which we have never expressed, and give praise and encouragement
to us for attacking institutions that we do not think undesirable or defending conduct really
deplored by us. Even the obscure are often misunderstood.

CHAPTER III

THE DRAMATIC CRITIC

An Attack upon him

After careful consideration, and almost taking the trouble of rereading some of my little essays,
we have failed to discover exactly why the letter set out hereafter was written. Apparently
the articles have been a little bitter concerning what some of us call commercial drama, even
rather ferocious about a recent crop of plays.

Certainly it seems well that the other side should be heard, that the middle-class sensualist--perhaps
"the average hedonist" is a better translation of "l'homme moyen sensual"--should be allowed
to express his views; for one is disinclined to attach importance to the Philistine observations
in the theatrical trade papers or in the interviews with managers. At the same time, some doubts
are possible concerning the letter; it seems to contain some implicit evidence that it was
concocted by somebody holding a brief, by a person accustomed to controversy; it is written
on the Sports Club notepaper, and merely signed "A Middle-Aged Pleasure-Seeker."

"DEAR SIR,--I have read a great deal about the theatres in The Westminster Gazette, signed
by 'E.F.S.' I take in the paper because I disagree with its views on all topics--particularly
the drama--and I like to hear the other side. Why have you not got a sense of humour? Why do
you not cease flogging that dead horse, the British Drama? Do you think you can flog it into
life? Do you believe that British Drama, as you understand it, ever did live, or ever will?
I don't. There is too much common sense in London.

"Why do you persist in girding at Mr Tree because he gives beautiful scenery instead of what
you think fine plays? Lots of people enjoy his entertainments. I don't myself, for I agree
with you that Shakespeare and Phillips are tiresome. I notice, by the way, that you even begin
to gibe at the scenery and suggest that it is not beautiful because it is too pretty, which
is a mere paradox, and of course absurd. Why do you keep howling against melodrama and musical
comedy?

"Above all, what grounds have you for supposing that we can have, or ought to have, a drama
based upon true observation of life? Every one of us, every day of his existence, is the hero
of a drama based upon the true observation of life, and a very tiresome drama too, as a rule,
and we all want to see dramas in the theatre that take us out of ourselves. You seem to think
that we can and ought to have a drama like the novels of Meredith, which I believe nobody ever
reads, or the pictures of Whistler, that are simply ridiculous, or the ugly music of Strauss--I
don't mean the one who writes waltzes.

"Even assuming that there are people who like such novels, or pictures, or music, your case
is none the better, for ordinary people don't get trapped into being bored by them, and such
works can live without general support, whilst drama has to appeal to the bulk of us, and you
cannot stick over the proscenium-arch some phrase such as 'Philistines will be irritated.'

"Of course there are people who think drama ought to be educational, and preach moral lessons,
and so on. Well, the popular drama is pretty moral, except, perhaps, musical comedy, which
does seem a little topsy-turvy in its lessons; and the Censor prevents politics being introduced
or religion being attacked. Every attempt to teach what you would call moral lessons must fall
because we know that after all the play is not real. I confess that the romantic and the sentimental
rather bore me; but you cannot expect a fifty-year-old stockbroker to be sentimental or romantic.
My wife and daughters enjoy that sort of thing, and they simply worship Mr Lewis Waller, of
whom I get a bit jealous at times.

"I like the exciting pieces and the funny farces, and all the pretty dresses and pretty undresses
and the pretty girls and pretty music of the musical comedies.

"You appear to imagine that the business of the theatre is to make the audience think; perhaps
that would be all right if it appealed merely to idle people, but ninety-nine folk out of a
hundred who go to a theatre in the evening have already done a day's work; even those who don't
earn their living are pretty tired after dinner. So it is clear that there are not people enough
to support a drama which it is difficult to understand. Moreover, you forget that when we have
to read, as sometimes happens, the high-class books, we can skip the dull parts; indeed, I
get to know all that I need about the important books by reading the reviews that tear the
guts out of them and merely leave the padding behind; but, unfortunately, you cannot skip the
dull parts of a play unless it is a very well-known work, like Hamlet or Macbeth, when, if
a man has a good seat, he can escape quite a lot of the philosophising passages.

"The solid truth is that we English, like the Americans, have too much good sense to worry
about drama. There are a certain number of cranks and faddists who get an unholy delight out
of eccentric plays, but they are few in the Anglo-Saxon countries, where good sense reigns.
We only take fairy tales seriously when we are children; we never get intoxicated by ideas;
this is where we differ from the Continentals. Art is all very well in its way and in its proper
place. I like a good picture, or a good song, or a rattling story as well as anybody; but art
ought not to be shoved down our throats. You will observe that the Americans, really a great
people, are like us in this respect, and none of their plays--at least those that come over
here--belong to the intellectual drama about which you rave. When they want to be intellectual
they play Shakespeare, not giving us more of the Bard than is absolutely necessary, but letting
us have full measure of pretty music, scenery and dresses. Augustin Daly used to do it perfectly.

"By all means have a little theatre of your own and enjoy dull plays in it, but don't denounce
our cakes and ale, or think yourself any better than people with healthy tastes who can enjoy
such works as Mrs Dot, or The Explorer, or The Duke's Motto. And what does it matter where
the plays come from any more than where the nuts come from? Anyone would think you were a rabid
Protectionist who reads your howls about imported plays. Art is universal, not local--I read
that in some real high-toned book--and if a play is good, don't worry whether its author is
French or German or American. You don't grumble if he is Norwegian. Why not? Do be consistent
even if you cannot be broad-minded. And, lastly, let the Censor alone; you have flung enough
mud at him; I am tired of reading energetic attacks which you know quite well are mere beating
of the wind. Your unfortunate reader,

"A MIDDLE-AGED PLEASURE-SEEKER"

It is fair to add that the amiable correspondent is inaccurate in some of his allegations.
We have never said that the plays of Shakespeare or Phillips are tiresome, or that Mr Tree's
scenery is not beautiful because it is too pretty, but have hinted that it is sometimes too
academically or conventionally pretty. And we have not protested against the importation of
plays, but against the importation of rubbish no better than our rubbish of a similar character.
We have not demanded that all drama should be intellectual, but merely that the intellectual
should be given a fair hearing.

Why he is Disliked

It is to be feared that the dramatic critics are not really popular; people have even spoken
of them as parasites, without displaying a nice acquaintance with language. On this side of
the footlights most people regard us as mere beefeaters, but taste the fare approved by us
suspiciously. There is a lurking doubt in the general mind as to our honesty.

The people on the other side know that the "champagne and chicken" idea is ill-founded: perhaps
they even regret this occasionally, but they love us none the better. Clement Scott used to
be very bitter in print about the ingratitude of players; there was an article by him complaining
that those who loved him on account of half-a-dozen laudatory notices turned round and reviled
him because of an unflattering phrase in a seventh, and the topic was one upon which he had
a means of knowledge quite unequalled. Services weigh less than disservices.

Under such circumstances, mindful of the fact that our remarks are read very closely by people
whom they affect deeply, it is most important that our censure should appear just--to others.
We ought to be extremely careful that those whom we blame cannot point out that upon their
face our remarks are unfair. It is not always easy to remember this, particularly when one
is young, and sometimes it is difficult to sacrifice the pleasure of a neat phrase because
it may do a little injustice. When looking at such a neat, crushing sentence as "A better company
would have been wasted upon such a play, a better play upon such a company," one wonders anxiously
whether, in order to write it, the critic may not have been unjust to somebody.

There are dangerous phrases such as this one from a notice upon a play given a little while
ago--it runs as follows:--"Mr X. did everything that mortal actor could do for this indifferent
comedy. Whenever he had a chance to be funny he was very funny. More than that, he almost made
a live figure of a dummy, and that means that Mr X. did more for his author than his author
had done for him." How on earth could the critic know whether his suggestions were true? The
play was new; the part taken by Mr X. had never been acted by anybody else; there was no basis
for comparison. Obviously there was no foundation for suggesting that from the performance
it could be seen that the actor did anything not intended by the author. He spoke the author's
text, and nothing indicates that he introduced any "business" unsuggested by him. The piece
happens to have been printed for private circulation, so that one can make the assertion confidently.

What means, then, could the writer have of coming to the conclusion that the part, as acted,
was any better than the part as written, or that the actor had done more or less than carry
out admirably the ideas of the dramatist?

There are instances, of course, where a playwright does owe more to the actor than the actor
to him. In L'Auberge des Adrets, known in England as Robert Macaire, Frédéric Lemaître put
the author under an immense debt, perhaps without earning his gratitude, by deliberately converting
a turgid, inept, hopeless melodrama into an almost immortal lucrative burlesque. In Our American
Cousin Sothern worked up a minor part, that of Dundreary, into something like the whole play,
with the result that a piece which might have died in a month lived many years.

It is well known that in certain classes of musico-dramatic pieces the so-called authors expect
the leading low comedian to find his own jokes, or most of them, and certainly Mr Arthur Roberts
and others have contributed a bigger share of the effective dialogue than that of the persons
supposed to have written the book. The case under discussion is quite different. There was
nothing to indicate that the actor did more than carry out admirably the very clever ideas
of the author--an author, by-the-by, who happens to be very meticulous about having his ideas
carried out, and therefore is in the habit of attending rehearsals and expressing his opinion
at them. It is regrettable that criticism should be written in this fashion, since it causes
a feeling of distrust. Probably the writer had no desire to be unjust, or even unfair in the
comparatively venial way of doing rather less than justice to the author in his desire to do
rather more to the actor.

It may be urged, by way of answer, that all of us at times are in peril of undervaluing the
efforts of the player by suggesting that he has not got full measure out of his part. Perhaps
we do occasionally some injustice in this respect; we may imagine that a character ought to
act better than it is acted when in fact the author has failed to carry out his intentions,
and it is impossible for the player to make the part seem other than that of a dummy. Even
in cases where we make such a mistake there may be grounds for the opinion expressed. It cannot
be shown a priori that our opinion is unjust, though a failure afterwards by several actors
of incontestable excellence to give life to the part might prove that we were wrong. In other
words, the criticism upon the face of it is fair, and here is its distinction from what is
being blamed. Possibly it looks as if the whole matter were one of form; even if this be so,
the fact is no answer. In some aspects of life it is more important to seem just than to be
just. It is of real moment that nothing should be done to diminish the by no means extravagant
weight of dramatic criticism either in the opinion of the public or that of authors and players.

His Honesty

A little while ago there was a meeting of creditors. The debtor was a dramatic critic. There
was a great deal of talking. The assets were in inverse ratio to the debts and one creditor,
registered under the Moneylenders Act, was very wrathful. Time after time he kept making his
suggestion that the debtor was able to get something from his friends wherewith to pay his
enemies; and at last, under some pressure, he spoke clearly.

He suggested that as the debtor was still the dramatic critic of an important paper he ought
to go and see some of the leading managers and get assistance from them. The speaker was confident
that they would gladly advance a substantial sum to a man in the debtor's position without
any expectation of direct repayment. What happened after this, of course, was a matter of no
importance; but it was interesting and surprising to find a man of business believing that
the dramatic critics are easily corruptible, corrupt and corrupted. We are very honest, without
being entitled to boast of our honesty; we are like the ladies who from time to time on the
stage are bitterly attacked by a heroine with a past. We are ferociously virtuous because we
have not been sufficiently charming to be tempted. The phrase "chicken and champagne" still
lingers, and I have heard it suggested, in the country, that after the play is over we are
regaled by a banquet behind the scenes: "regaled" was the word actually used. It is not difficult
to answer that suggestion since most of the critics who count are busily consuming midnight
oil, not champagne, as soon as the play is over, and then go to bed tired. Mr Archer, in feigned
indignation, once complained that he had never been insulted by the offer of a bribe, and,
if my memory is accurate, he even suggested a doubt whether there existed a manager who would
lend him half-a-crown! He certainly underrated his weight as well as his value. Yet there is
a memorable utterance of a manager to the effect that those of the critics worth bribing could
not be bribed, and those willing to be bribed were not worth bribing. Still, there have been
instances of efforts. A manager, now no more, once sent an expensive trifle at Christmas to
one of us, who, embarrassed by it, indulged in a graceful but rather costly victory by sending
a still more expensive trifle to the manager on his birthday, and this closed the incident.
Into the nice question whether and how far, apart from anything so vulgar as bribery, we are
always strictly impartial I do not care to venture; it may be that even Brutus was sometimes
"influenced" without knowing it.

It is painful to be honest and yet suspected. The other day it was brutally suggested that
the formation of the Society of Dramatic Critics had some connexion with the coming into force
of the Act for the suppression of bribery. Foreigners always presume that we have itching palms,
salved in due course by the managers or by the players. Not long ago one of us received a letter
from a Continental artist saying that she was about to appear in London; that for a long time
past she had received much pleasure and profit from his articles in The ----: that she was
very anxious that an article concerning her should appear in The ----; and that if he would
be so charming as to arrange it, she would be glad to pay any price--the word "any" was underlined.

No photograph accompanied the letter. No answer came to his reply; probably she was surprised
at the attitude adopted by him in referring her to the advertisement manager.

It used to be--perhaps is still--the custom in France for players and dramatists to call upon
the critics before or immediately after the premières; and not long ago some of the French
actresses in London sent their cards to the representatives of the leading English newspapers.
The most charitable would guess that these visits to the dramatic critic sometimes influence
his notice to an undesirable extent.

It has been said, no doubt untruly, that the rate of pay of the critics of Paris is based in
part upon the supposition that their post gives them collateral advantages. In England the
popular idea is that the critics are paid vast sums by their editors and also enjoy these little
extras.

This idea is possibly the explanation of the fact that editors sometimes get letters from people
offering to act as dramatic critics without any salary at all. Apparently the writers of such
letters think that the work would be well enough paid for otherwise. Of course they may be
merely sufferers from the curious first-night mania which induces a great many people to go
to what, as a rule, is the worst but one of the performances of a play. The second, we know,
is absolutely the worst, since the performers are suffering from a reaction and fatigue, and
there has been no time for improvements to be made in consequence of criticism, amateur and
professional. Undoubtedly, in the case of many people, the desire to be present on the first
night is merely a snobbish wish to take part in what journalists call "a function," and a large
number of first-nighters would attend certain premières even if absolutely sure that the performance
would be tedious to them. They are present to be seen, and not to see, although nine out of
ten of them are of no importance.

The topic is one of delicacy, since everyone is anxious, naturally, not to write anything which
could enable his friends to suggest that he is vexed because nobody has attempted to bribe
him. The supreme humiliation is for the person who is willing to sin and never gets tempted.
It is a little curious, seeing what large sums are at stake, that the new Bribery Act may be
regarded as needless so far as we are concerned. In the past there may have been dishonesty;
indeed, there was in the case of one or two very well-known critics. The best story in connection
with this attempted briber relates to one of the most esteemed of our craft, a writer who has
lately retired from the active service of life. A manager sent to him a present of game, and
the critic, feeling embarrassed, applied to his editor, Sir John Robinson, for advice. Sir
John, who was rich enough in sense of humour, told him that he had better eat the birds promptly
in order that corruption might not be added to bribery.

In the fact that, except in rare cases, no efforts are made to bribe London critics there is
an agreeable tribute to their honesty. A good many thousands of pounds are at stake; there
are not a dozen critics worth bribing; the production budget would only require a small proportionate
increase to provide quite a handsome sum to the dozen, yet the offer is not made.

The uncharitable will say that there are not a dozen, or even two or three, worth bribing;
yet, although from time to time managers, or rather actor-managers, allege that the critics
have little influence, nearly all the managers, actor-managers included, occasionally admit
that even if the critics cannot make plays succeed they may be able to kill some.

After all, a failure may be more or less disastrous: the receipts of a piece which runs only
three weeks may amount to a thousand pounds more or less; and, using a slightly Irish phrase,
the three weeks may be either a fortnight or a month, during which there are gross takings
greater or less, while the disbursements are a constant figure. Probably the critics could
not kill a production--the word "production" is ugly, but needed to cover both play and performance--which
has real elements of popularity in it, assuming that the management has the bold wisdom to
run it against bad notices. Moreover, the most amiable criticisms in the world could do no
more than mitigate the disaster of an essentially unpopular production.

Some managers place a rather extravagant reliance upon our fairness. Not only do they dissemble
their love for some of us, but they even kick us upstairs, and some of us are compelled to
pretend that we can see a play better from the dress circle than the stalls. On a first night
in certain theatres there are unimportant deadheads in the best seats of the stalls, and the
representatives of great English newspapers are hidden behind pillars or put in what, after
the first night, will be fourth or fifth rows of the pit, or sent to Coventry in the dress
circle--sometimes back rows of it--and one may well feel proud to belong to a craft in the
honesty of which the managers have such profound confidence.

There are moments when the thought comes that managers put some of us into very bad seats because
they feel that, conscious of unmerited ill-treatment, we will write opinions more favourable
than we really hold, for fear lest what we think our true opinions have been unjustly affected
by our ill-treatment. Since this was written, one of us heard something quaint about the craft.
He was in the torture chair of the dentist, who was talking of the theatres, ignorant of the
fact that his victim was a dramatic critic--such is fame--and he spoke about the difficulty
of getting tickets for a first-night, and said that most of the seats are given to the press
and the only way is to go to the box office on the evening of the first night, since some tickets
are generally sold back to the management by the poor hacks anxious to earn a dishonest penny.
The sufferer did not contradict him or tell him that most of us get only one ticket and have
to use it. You see, no wise man disputes with his "gum architect," who has too many methods
of avenging himself if defeated in a controversy. No man is a hero to his dentist.

His Abolition

The sun was on and the fish were off. Strenuous efforts had failed to put the angler in the
position of the gentleman qui peut brâmer ses amis. Dr Tench, the fresh-water physician, whose
medical powers have been somewhat overrated, though he can keep himself alive for an astonishing
length of time out of the water, declined the most abominably tempting baits. The pike were
only represented by baby jacklets: the rudd and the roach were rare and almost microscopic;
as for the carp, of course one did not expect to catch the sly, shy creatures. The friend who
had been lured to fish in the big lake, modestly called a pond, put down his rod, and, after
a few remarks about the fish, which ought not to be set out in print, said in a meditative
way, "I wonder what would happen if there were no dramatic critics." To which came the reply,
that there would be no performances, since performances without an audience are almost unimaginable,
and every spectator acts to some extent as a dramatic critic.

By the way, it is a curious distinction of the actor's art that he needs an audience more than
any other artist. The singer, violinist, and other executants of music, if they really love
music, can to almost the full extent of such love enjoy performing to themselves alone as much
as before a crowd. The painter and sculptor have a keen pleasure in doing their work and seek
no spectator save a model; it is true they desire the world to see the child of their efforts,
but that is partly because they are creators, as well as executants. Certainly, the singer
would sing for pure pleasure in singing if stranded alone upon a desert island, and marooned
men would write books or music if they could, and stranded painters would paint. Would an actor
in the position of Robinson Crusoe act to amuse himself--at least, would he do so before he
had his man Friday as an involuntary and perhaps ungratified spectator?

The hapless piscator--the word ceased to be pretentious after Walton's use of it--refused to
bait his hook again, and said, "I mean, what would happen if there were none of you professional
chaps who write criticisms that nobody reads except the other dramatic critics?" To remark
that if only the critics read criticisms the suppression of criticism obviously would be needless
was an easy triumph, so he continued in a grumbling way,

"What I mean is--suppose that after a play you merely gave some sort of account of the plot
and did not say whether the piece was good or bad, or proper or shocking, or how it was acted,
and so on, would it make any difference? I mean," he added, hastily anticipating a question,
"would people go more or less to the theatre, or would the kind of plays and acting change?
I suppose it would make a little difference; would the difference be great?"

The answer was "Yes."

After all, the public may award the farthings, but the critics are of weight upon the question
of fame; the crowd to some extent acts as jury, the critics are judges; and to pursue the figure,
whilst the verdicts are of immediate influence, the judgments remain on record. In the future
it will often be difficult to find out what were the verdicts; but there will be no doubt about
the judgments. Moreover, whilst, as in the law courts, the verdicts are often due to prejudice
and to mere temporary causes, the reasoned judgments, when and so far as reasonable, are based
on a firmer foundation.

Probably the theatres would suffer, since there would be less talk about them. For the average
Englishman is timid in opinion, and, unless fortified by ideas gleaned from the papers, scamps
his conversation on topics concerning which opinions may be expressed. When he has exhausted
such subjects as the weather, his health, his private affairs and those of his neighbours,
he is accustomed to bestow upon his listeners, in a distorted form, the opinions concerning
books, plays, pictures, etc., that he has read in the papers and understood imperfectly; and
he certainly would talk far less about plays if he had not the aid of the critic's views.

Of course he would be able to call a piece "awfully good," "simply ripping," "sweetly pretty,"
"beastly rot," "awfully dull," and to use ill-assorted adjectives concerning the players; but
beyond this he would hardly venture for fear of uttering absurdities. A curious humour is that
people who have read the opinions which he is misrepresenting, in the papers from which he
got them, will listen without patent signs of boredom, and in their turn utter second-hand
opinions on similar subjects.

Clearly, then, talk on the topic would languish but for our promptings; and if the theatres
were less talked of there would be fewer visitors to them. Furthermore, if there were to be
no newspaper criticisms of plays or players, the gossip about them would be diminished even
in the papers, for the thrilling personal paragraphs would lose their point if given without
adjectives, and adjectives involve criticism of one kind or another.

Would the pieces and performances be affected by the suppression of criticism? Certainly, to
some extent. For even if the professional critics tell little more than the amateurs who offer
friendly advice, their remarks have a greater weight--partly, indeed, because in a sense they
are not gratuitous. All observers have noticed the fact that we rarely act on the opinion of
mere friends, however sound. Moreover, no one can deny that when the critics, belonging as
they do to many schools of thought and thoughtlessness, agree, they are likely to be correct.

Even putting them on a humbler level, and assuming that some merely express the views of the
public, they are serviceable, since the opinions of the world at large are almost wordless,
and the author or player unguided save by those immediately around him, and unable to learn
more of the public ideas concerning a play or performance than is shown by inarticulate noises
and by good or bad houses, would remain curiously ignorant of errors against art and mistakes
as to the desires of playgoers.

No doubt, to voice the public's thoughts is not our loftiest task, but it is useful to do so,
and there can be no denial of the fact that we know very well what the public likes. It has
often been said that we make remarkably bad prophecies as to the fate of plays, but some of
the instances quoted are not in point, since they concern works ultimately licked into shape,
which, but for the adverse notices, would have remained unchanged till early death ended them.

Real mistakes are made by us in this respect, but generally the mistake is in believing that
a piece will be successful which, however, proves to be a failure; we overrate the public taste,
or fail to take into account matters quite foreign to the qualities of an entertainment which
nevertheless determine its fate.

Of the more important aspect of the critic's mission, his duty in trying to aid in the development
of art, the luckless angler was not thinking. Certainly, few, even of those who denounce the
critics, will, if they think the matter over, refuse to admit that to the public, the players,
and even authors, the humble craftsmen render useful services, quite apart from the value of
the work they do for art, by their power of giving voice to the public, whom they study carefully
and under favourable circumstances, and by exercising to some extent the function of censor
in addition to those of beefeater and guide.

The Threatened Theatrical Trust

Somebody has forwarded from America a newspaper article called "The Theatrical Syndicate's
Reply to Its Critics," to which is given the signature of Mr Marc Klaw, partner of Messrs Klaw
& Erlanger, well-known American managers. During the last few years The Referee has been uttering
a note of warning about the danger of the establishment in London or England of a theatrical
trust. Other papers have handled the subject, and in particular an interview with Mr David
Belasco has appeared, in which he explained and vehemently defended his attitude towards the
theatrical trust in the United States.

Mr Klaw's article is amusing in its unconscious humour. In one part he denies the existence
of certain facts, whilst in another he attempts to show that their existence is beneficial
to everybody. The important feature of it is a candid admission that the aims of the syndicate
are entirely commercial and that he, one of its principal members, looks upon the theatre from
no other point of view than that of business.

"The theatre," he says, "is governed by the rules and observances of all other commercial enterprises.
It is not out to dictate to public taste. It is out to satisfy the public demand. While even
such a purely business undertaking must be hedged about with essential suggestions of artistic
refinement, I do not believe that the public demands of us that we should give over our commercialism.
Moreover, the public would have no such right."

There is no need to criticise Mr Klaw's style: still it is rather amusing to think that he
sometimes discusses the literary quality of his wares.

If there be any chance of our theatres becoming subject to a syndicate which replies officially
to its critics in such a fashion there is serious danger to be considered. Now, according to
certain statements by Mr Belasco and by writers in and to The Referee, the Theatrical Syndicate
does, in fact, control to a very great extent the drama in America, and there is no real doubt
about the accuracy of the proposition that the drama in the States is in a worse plight than
the drama in London. If, judging by the ordinary picked American productions over here, the
evidence were otherwise insufficient, the tone of Mr Klaw's article would render it satisfying.

According to Mr Klaw, the Syndicate has conferred certain advantages upon all persons connected
with the theatre--except the critics and the public. He does not venture to put his case any
higher than that of a trade combination, and it is clear that he at least does not consider
the theatre from the point of view of dramatic art. It is difficult to accept this with equanimity.
A phrase of his--"the theatre itself is a business house, exhibiting the pictures of the dramatist
and composer under the proper light and most attractive auspices, just as the picture-dealer
has a picture-house in which he displays the best efforts of the painters and illustrators"--is
based on a curious fallacy.

The picture-dealer will not hurt his business if, in addition to stocking the Royal Academy
works, upon which he relies for his bread-and-butter, in the front window, he devotes a little
space at the back to the unconventional efforts of the true artists. To do this costs him nothing,
and he may even make money by such a policy.

The manager of the strictly commercial theatre cannot follow the picture-dealer's example;
he must risk serious loss every time that he produces a non-commercial piece. In one respect
Mr Klaw is in agreement with some of the English antagonists of the trust system; like them,
he is almost indignant at the idea that the theatre should attempt to educate or dictate to
the public. As a corollary, he and they must be opposed to the idea that the dramatist or player
should have an educational value. Do they think that the public needs no education in theatrical
art? Are they content that the great half-washed should remain in their present condition,
which exhibits painfully a great lack of education? Presumably.

Mr Klaw deals with the dramatic critic. Here, of course, our withers are wrung and we write
with a bias. He is indignant because the Syndicate is accused of an attempt to "stifle and
muzzle" dramatic criticism. He thinks that it is "to his best interests to have it [dramatic
criticism] absolutely impartial, absolutely just, and always on the most dignified plane."
Then he explains that it is because certain American dramatic critics have fallen from this
high standard, or never reached it, that they have been driven from the Syndicate's paradises.
Who is to decide whether the critic in a particular case is "absolutely impartial, absolutely
just, and on the most dignified plane"? Mr Klaw and his colleagues, of course.

There is a certain fable in which a wolf set itself up to judge the conduct of the relatives
of an appetising lamb, and executed a vicarious injustice. From time to time London dramatic
critics of the highest standard and most respected character have been excluded by particular
managers for a while from their houses, because the managers thought they had not been "absolutely
impartial, absolutely just, and on the most dignified plane." Time and their friends have convinced
the managers that they had blundered, and peace was made.

Suppose, however, that those individual managers, who really are people taking a far more dignified
view of their calling than that of putting it on the level of the dry-goods store, had been
part of a syndicate of Klaws, would those critics have been readmitted? Would the fact have
been recognized that the unfavourable notices were really honest dignified criticisms, even
if disputable upon the point of justice? Of course not. If the newspapers had combined against
the theatres, the Syndicate managers would have climbed down. Would they have combined? I think
not. Here, indeed, is the peril.

It appears that the Syndicate has already laid its claws on some of the London theatres. What
combination is likely to be formed to fight it; and if there be none, what is the inevitable
result? In this land, many centuries ago, even before the famous statute of James I. that regulates
our Patent Law, the British feeling has been hostile to monopolies. Apparently this spirit
was thrown overboard during the famous passage of The Mayflower, or when Boston Bay was turned
into a teapot, and certainly the American takes everything on trust, except, indeed, the honesty
of his rulers and judges. Unfortunately one of the things we are importing from America--would
that there were a real prohibitive tariff against it!--is the monopolistic spirit; and this
being the case, it is very rash to hope that we shall band ourselves adequately to resist the
attacks of the theatre syndicates.

It is easy to see how such a thing would be worked: at the beginning quietly, pleasantly, until
the hold became so strong that the gloves could be taken off and players might be warned not
to accept engagements from outsiders on pain of getting none from the trust; and dramatists
informed that unless they kept all their wares for the Syndicate they must look to the few
outsiders for a living. The American managers, in their big way, would buy up some of the irreconcilable
newspapers, would acquire a preponderating influence in the neutral, and discover that the
critics representing the independent journals were not "absolutely impartial, absolutely just,
and always on the most dignified plane." Truly, if we are to be judged by such a method, few,
if any, of us will escape a whipping. Does the Syndicate regard any critic who expresses an
unfavourable opinion about its wares as "absolutely impartial," etc.? Surely no one who is
not "absolutely impartial," etc., is entitled to apply such a standard to the critics: would
this consideration prevent Mr Klaw from judging them and carrying out his sentences? It is
to be feared that he would do Jedburgh justice on some of us, and the out-of-work critics would
join the crowd at Poverty Corner.

CHAPTER IV

PLAYS OF PARTICULAR TYPES

The Pseudo-Historical

A play running at the Savoy in March 1905, concerning Madame du Barri, called forth the usual
complaints about inaccuracy in detail and undesirability of subject. The latter point is not
our theme, and may be dismissed with the remark that there was nothing in the life of the creature
as presented upon the stage to serve as an excuse for requiring us to spend an evening with
such a worthless baggage.

At an early stage of his career the critic welcomes this class of pseudo-historical drama--but
his welcome takes an unamiable form. He likes to have it produced on a Saturday evening, so
that he may pass a happy Sunday. The inaccuracies fascinate him. They offer such a splendid
chance of showing the knowledge possessed by him--and his library. When very young he deals
with the matter in a straightforward fashion, and trounces the author for every unwitting solecism
and willing falsification that is discovered.

He writes a learned little disquisition headed by a remark, in the Macaulay vein, as to matters
of common knowledge, and shows from direct authority that the dramatist is quite wrong in mixing
up the Du Barri who married the heroine with the Du Barri who took her away from the milliner's
shop, and gives a facetious touch of lightness to his remarks by pointing out that neither
of the scoundrels was connected with a certain much-advertised proprietary food.

The more obscure the blunder the greater the writer's joy in it, for he will be able to introduce
observations beginning "That little known but elegant author," etc., and if the subject is
earlier than the Du Barri period he will present some quotations in the uneconomically spelt
old French.

A little later in his career his method changes: he relies upon his batterie de cuisine as
much as ever, but uses some art to conceal the employment of his apparatus. There will be mere
hints about the errors; an adjective between two commas will sometimes represent a severe correction.
The books are not referred to, the corrections are made in a fashion which suggests that no
greater authority is needed than that of the critic.

A time arrives when he comes to the conclusion that it is no part of his duties to deal with
the historical aspect of the matter; but, of course, the habit is upon him, and he excuses
himself by saying, after he has pointed out all the errors which he has noticed, that they
would not matter in the least if the play were meritorious in other respects.

It is difficult to defend his attitude, which, however, is due to his appreciation of the fact
that nowadays a little knowledge is a well-paid thing. Moreover, he does not wish it to be
thought that his knowledge of history--and books--is less than that of his rivals. Of course
the inaccuracies do not matter very much unless they are so gross as to shock the great half-literate.

There is, however, a more valid objection to the historical play than that it is certain to
be inaccurate; the historical drama is rarely a good drama.

The author is compelled by his matter to present it in a conventional fashion, for to give
a Du Barri or a Napoleon, a Nelson or a Wellington, not in accordance with the popular concept
of such personages would be to seek failure. Moreover, the writer is necessarily forced to
belittle the subject if not bold enough to take a simple episode in the life of his hero or
heroine, and even then, unless the miracle-working power of genius is employed, the great figure
comes out as a small puppet.

The player may be made to look up like Napoleon, may follow traditions as to his gestures and
mode of speech, but in none of the vast number of plays concerning the wonderful monster has
he ever appeared to be a person of genius: whether handled facetiously, as in Mr Shaw's ingenious
play The Man of Destiny, or Madame Sans-Gene, pathetically as in the play presented by Mr Martin
Harvey, or formidably as in most works, he never seems at all different from any commonplace
man put into the like circumstances. Exactly that in which he differed from all others is exactly
what cannot be put upon the stage. We have had Nelson, and of course it was quite impassible
to get any suggestion of the qualities that made him Nelson.

The modern tendency in the matter seems to be to choose the reprehensible--such, for instance,
as Mlle. Mars, Madame de Pompadour, Madame du Barri, and La Montansier, women in the career
of whom no doubt there were many dramas, similar, however, to the dramas in the lives of other
women of their class less famous and infamous. When, however, they are put upon the stage they
cease to be remarkable, and the characters introduced to support them have the same fate; for
instance, the Louis XV. at the Savoy does not give the faintest idea of the ineffably vile
monarch, whilst no glimpse is shown of the quality which enabled a Du Barri to obtain her tremendous
power.

It is always a case of mountain and mouse in these plays; take as an example the Sardou Dante
play produced with prodigious drum-beating a while ago at Drury Lane. Who, if names had been
altered, would have guessed that the hero of the piece was the author of the immortal poems?
There has been hardly a historical play in modern times in which the identity of the famous
personages could be guessed except from the names, the make-up, the costumes, and the specific
facts; at the best the pieces are tableaux vivants.

Perhaps there is nothing illegitimate in the ambition of the player to pose as one of the mighty
dead, and it is rather humility in the author which urges him to seek adventitious interest
than vanity that causes him to believe himself really able to give a true idea of a Napoleon.
Into such delicate questions it is needless to inquire. The point is that the lives of the
great are not more dramatic than the lives of the small. Napoleon at St Helena was not more
unhappy than were millions of people of his day. There is a drama as poignant in the history
of César Birotteau as in that of Marie Antoinette, as big a tragedy in the career of Whitaker
Wright as in that of Napoleon III.

There was a reason, which exists no longer, why the authors of the Middle Ages chose characters
of great social status for their principal parts, and even this reason was not altogether well
founded. It would be wrong to assert that historical plays ought not to be written, for, whilst
not recommending the use of the stage instead of history classes, one can see that a historical
play may illustrate ideas that could hardly be presented otherwise.

There is a noteworthy instance in the work of the much-abused Ibsen. The Pretenders is a historical
drama amazingly rich in idea; whether the idea of kingship superbly handled in it is an anachronism
it is hard to say, or to tell whether the dramatist chose his subject to illustrate his idea
or the idea to embellish his subject; but in it, though obviously there is scope for magnificent
mounting and interesting detail, one feels that the genius of the author has prevented him
from making any sacrifice of the dramatic aspect. He has not chosen a popular historical personage
and made him into the hero of the melodrama, as happens in the case of nine out of ten of the
so-called historical plays, but has written a drama that demands a royal atmosphere, which
he handles admirably.

What a pity that the money lavished upon the Du Barri play--and lavished very cleverly, it
must be admitted, so far as the production of beautiful stage-pictures is concerned--was not
spent in the mounting of a great drama like The Pretenders, rich in strong acting parts, magnificent
in presentation of character, and really illuminated by ideas!

The Horrible in Drama

It has been alleged that The Monkey's Paw, a clever one-act play by Messrs Jacobs and Barker,
formerly presented at the Haymarket Theatre, is too horrible for the stage. The part complained
of is confined to the last scene of three.

A young man has been killed in a factory, and his body was so mangled by the fatal wheels that
even his father was not allowed to see it. Late at night the father, by means of a diabolical
talisman--the Monkey's Paw--succeeds in recalling his son to life, and the audience hears a
knocking at the door. What is knocking? The mother is making frantic efforts to pull back the
bolts. Her son is there, returned from the grave. The father, aware that the talisman, which
promised the fulfilment of three wishes, is of a fiendish malignity, guesses that if the door
be opened his son will stand before them alive, but fearfully mangled and mutilated, so he
is groping upon the floor for the Monkey's Paw, and the audience feels that on the other side
of the door is an obscene horror fresh from the grave. There was a sigh of relief in the theatre
when the father found the talisman, and, using the last wish, prayed successfully that his
son might be dead and at peace.

The knock, knock, was decidedly impressive, like the knocking at the door in Macbeth, which
greatly affected Charles Lamb. Is this matter too horrible for the stage? One may compare it
with another horror given not long ago, The Soothing System, which Mr Bourchier adapted cleverly
from a story by Edgar Poe and produced at the Garrick, showing the terrible adventures of two
visitors to a lunatic asylum, the inmates of which had overpowered their keepers. This was
very powerful and horrible, and perhaps would have given a shiver to the hero of a famous tale
in the collection of goblin stories by the Brothers Grimm.

Nevertheless it was not legitimate, partly because the circumstances are rare when it is permissible
to present madness on the stage, partly because some of the mad people were repulsive to the
eye, and partly because horror was the sole means and end of the piece. Many condemned The
Monkey's Paw, yet a line can be drawn between it and The Soothing System--not a nice sharp
line, but one of those blurred lines so faint and so uncertain, that even if their existence
be admitted, there is always room for a fight on the question whether a work lies on this or
that side of it.

Speaking roughly, one may say that The Monkey's Paw is legitimate because there is nothing
in it repulsive to the eye, and for the reason that horror is not the sole means and end of
it: the story, like its prototype folk-lore tale, "The Three Wishes," has an obvious moral.
It belongs to art because the emotion caused is due to a stimulus to our imagination by the
force of an idea and not of a thing exhibited. If an effort were made to show us any ghastly
creature knocking, the work would be out of court.

To illustrate the line of definition already indicated, a few instances of the horrible presented
on the stage in our time may be given usefully; it must be added that most appear to lie on
the wrong side.

Shakespeare's adventures in the horrible are legitimate, with an exception in the case of one
play of doubtful authenticity, Titus Andronicus. On the other hand, Sweeney Todd; or, The Barber
of Fleet Street, would probably find no defender; whilst a historical drama I once saw in the
South of France, where the hero was put upon the rack in front of the footlights and squirmed
and screamed, was quite unendurable; and this is rather a pity, since there is a very powerful
dramatic scene in Balzac's Notes sur Catherine de Medicis, which in consequence of this objection
should not be used. There is a mitigated form of the torture business in La Tosca that caused
great discussion. Perhaps those who deem it illegitimate are somewhat supersensitive; it would
be more polite, and perhaps accurate, to call them hyper-modern.

Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde presented a very difficult case. I can remember nothing so "creepy" and
"shuddery" as the first appearance of Mr Mansfield at the Lyceum in the character of the evil
doctor; the house gasped at the half-seen image of a sort of obscene beast at the conservatory
window, and there was the silence of breathless horror when it bounded into the room and seized
its victim. Until the impression wore off the Mansfield Hyde was almost as horrible as the
fantastic things born of the cruel imagination and brilliant pencil of Mr S.H. Sime, whose
work is sometimes so richly embellished by imagination as well as by superb technique that
one cannot deny its claim to be regarded as art.

Something of the distinction here discussed can be seen by comparing Mr Sime's drawings with
the pictures of the mad painter Wirtz, whose abominable gallery at Brussels is a chamber of
unimaginative horrors. It may be remembered that Mr Mansfield had a competitor in Mr Bandman
Palmer, who, however, missed horror by the simple vulgarity of his horrors, and, though he
may have impressed the simple-minded, was ludicrous to the thoughtful.

Returning for a moment to the clearly unpermissible, one might take a book like "Frankenstein."
Certainly any presentation on the stage of the man-monster as described by the talented authoress
would fall under the censure of being disgusting. This term may be used concerning several
needless exhibitions of blood on the stage, and of such a matter as Nana, once presented in
Paris. When the hapless heroine appeared in the last act with wax spots to indicate the pustules
of smallpox, she very nearly "took a lot out of us," if one may borrow a phrase from "Mr Hopkinson."
Obviously anything that reminds one of the ghastly horrors at the Royal College of Surgeons
or the Polyclinic Institute is quite unforgivable.

This brings us not unnaturally to a matter in which there has been some change of taste. A
fearful exhibition of a man in a fit, given with horrible power by that admirable actor Mr
Pateman in a melodrama called Master and Man, would perhaps not be condemned in our days, but
probably we would not endure, and certainly there would be little praise for, some of the death
scenes once famous in drama. The critics nowadays would apply to the actress the phrase of
the auctioneer to his wife, and implore her to "get on with her dying."

There was the famous Mlle. Croizette in Le Sphinx, by that detestable dramatist Octave Feuillet;
she squirmed horribly after taking poison from a ring; and it was alleged that she had studied
the death of patients in hospitals--a brutal, horrible thing to do. There is a good deal too
much dying in Frou-Frou, La Dame aux Camellias and Adrienne Lecouvrer. Without going back to
the traditions of the Greek theatre, one may say confidently that, if death on the stage is
permissible, dying is almost illegitimate, and trick falls, exhibitions of agony, and the like
are mere pandering to a very vulgar taste. Occasionally the dying is so handled that, though
somewhat prolonged, such a vigorous phrase ought not to be applied to it. For instance, one
may refer to In the Hospital, once presented at the Court, where Mr Beveridge, in an admirable
performance, gave a very tactful, restrained exhibition of approaching death and actual decease.
Another objection exists to any exhibition upon the stage of dying as compared with death.
The symptoms often call up terrible memories to some members of the audience which are not
evoked by the simple fact of death itself. It cannot be pretended that these references to
instances of the horrible and the trifling comments upon them establish the existence of the
distinction indicated, but they may be of some assistance to those who endeavour to explore
the matter. It is at least pleasant to note that there is a modern tendency to obtain effects
of the horrible by appeals to the imagination rather than to the senses.

It should be added that Mr F.R. Benson presented a Frankenstein play written by Mr Stephen
Phillips, but the question of the horrible appearance was discreetly avoided.

The Immorality Play

The summer visit to London of foreign players generally gives birth to discussions upon several
topics. Of course the question as to the relative merits of French and English acting is raised.
Upon this, one may give a warning to the thoughtless not to accept as universal the vague proposition
that the French are a nation of born actors. Of course everybody each year points out that
it is absurd there should be several foreign companies at a time in London cutting the throats
of one another, as to which one may say that the matter is far more complicated than most people
suppose.

The point worth nothing is the choice of plays by our visitors. Some of them no doubt are wise;
Bernhardt, for instance, recognizes the fact that a showy piece with a big part for her is
exactly the right thing provided that it is easily understood by the Berlitzians and Ollendorffians.
There are others, however, such as Madame Réjane, more ambitious, who in their selection of
plays do some disservice to their country.

The humour of Mr Gilbert's line "The not too French French bean" appeals irresistibly to the
English.

There has long been a vague idea in British bosoms that our neighbours in sexual matters are
far more immoral than ourselves. This is not the occasion upon which to examine the causes
and origin of such a decidedly erroneous view. One may, however, single out one of them. It
is largely the fault of writers of fiction that we remain in ignorance, or rather--and this
is worse--in error concerning the character of our amiable neighbours.

In former days, putting aside the naughty farces not supposed to present a picture of actual
life, most French dramas were quite sound in conventional morality. Augier presented some wicked
people, such as Olympe, concerning whom he invented the phrase la nostalgie de la boue; but
he was unequivocably moral in his aims, and preached the sanctity of marriage and maternity.
Dumas fils, putting aside one indiscretion, was equally vigorous in his desire to support accepted
views of morality. His illustrious father, it may be admitted, occasionally propounded startling
propositions, but without prejudice, I fancy, to a sound belief in the idea that exceptional
cases must be regarded as exceptions.

None, however, of these writers, however artificial their views of life, ever offered pictures
of society based upon the proposition that the chastity of woman is of no importance.

Many of the present school of French dramatists write plays--unfortunately chosen for presentation
in England--which assume the existence in society of a large class of people, otherwise amiable,
who act upon the proposition that in Paris as in heaven there is neither marrying nor giving
in marriage. Unmarried men and women live together, the males paying for the board and lodging,
etc., of the females without there being any pretence that the intimacy of their relations
is radically immoral under normal circumstances. They do not even indulge in fireworks in such
plays. You do not have parodies of the famous phrase "Property is theft"; for the heroines
fail to justify themselves by remarking that marriage is immorality. There is simply a business
of union and disunion, collage and décollage, coupled with what one may call cross-unions,
all of them apparently free from the embarrassment of children and none of them involving any
of the more dignified of the human emotions. One of the worst of the number was L'Age d'Aimer,
by M. Pierre Wolff, a piece so cynically immoral, and written with such an air of truth, that
it might well cause some of us to shrink in horror from the idea of an entente cordiale with
a people which, if truly represented by its fashionable dramatists, has no concept of cleanliness
of life. Without posing as a champion of orthodox morality and certainly without taking objection
to the study of sex questions on the stage, one may protest against works in which it is assumed
there is no sex question, because every form of union, on any basis, except perhaps that of
marriage, is permissible.

By-the-by, why was the press that was so indignant about the so-called problem play almost
silent concerning these French dramas? Where were the phrases, such as miasmatic putrescence
or putrescent miasma--I forget which it was--that used to greet the dramas of Ibsen? Where
are the splendid Puritans who howled about A Wife without a Smile? Could it be--the thought
is painful--that they did not quite understand L'Age d'Aimer and imagined that all the people
were married? This idea is simply humiliating to one of the craft. "Ne rien comprendre, c'est
tout pardonner" is a very novel view of a famous phrase.

Madame Réjane, it was stated in the papers, has expressed herself shocked by A Wife without
a Smile, and alleged that she would never act in such a piece; but it may well be that her
horror lay in the fact that the parties concerned in the farce had been through a ceremony
of marriage, and that she would have accepted it as permissible if it were correctly entitled
A Cocotte without a Leer. The point is, not that those who understand these plays or those
who do not are affected in their moral ideas by them, but that they give a deplorable picture
of French life and in such a guise as to suggest that it is a picture of normal French life;
unfortunately L'Age d'Aimer is only one of many.

It is a great pity to use such a powerful vehicle as the stage for slandering a nation. That
there is a certain amount of truth in works of the Zaza, Sapho, Les Demi-Vierges and L'Age
d'Aimer type is incontestable; yet so far as they are true to general life one can find their
parallel in this holy island. Unfortunately, whilst the fast society of Paris is no bigger
than that of London, and whilst Paris is infinitely less in relation to France than London
in relation to England, the great French nation is generally judged over here by flashy pictures
of the fast section of Paris society, drawn, very often, if not always, from the outside, by
clever people too indolent to know that the psychology of decent people is quite as interesting
and dramatic as that of the gutter-creatures of mere passion who dignify their cynical desires
with noble names, and, so far as the latest school is concerned, fail even to reach the humblest
concept of free love.

Scripture Plays

There have been some complaints about the attitude of several of the dramatic critics concerning
Mr Jerome's drama The Passing of the Third Floor Back. It has been suggested that they have
not welcomed with sufficient warmth a sincere attempt "to broaden the basis," a phrase apparently
borrowed from the Tariff Reformers, to enlarge the boundaries of the British drama, but have
treated the production of the piece as an everyday affair, confining their remarks to criticism
concerning the workmanship.

In The Third Floor Back a character is introduced who is called "The Stranger," but known by
everybody in the theatre to represent Jesus Christ; and "The Stranger" visits a somewhat remarkable
boarding-house in which all the boarders and the landlady are vile, and after his visit all
of them are fit for immediate translation to heaven.

Certainly, many of us are anxious to broaden the basis of our drama. A little while ago an
important foreign paper contained a article saying that the object of the London stage is "to
introduce living pictures to say pretty things for young girls," and that "of the social, religious,
economic or intellectual struggles which agitate our time no trace is observable in the English
stage literature of the day," and that English stage literature "has become nothing more than
an insipid and dying study of the doings of the aristocratic and the rich." How sickening to
know that in the main the charges are true, and that our drama, with, fortunately some exceptions,
is merely a kind of Pap and Puppet affair.

On the other hand, the broadening effect of a play such as Mr Jerome's is not obvious. The
Censor has been dodged, just as he was dodged many years ago, when Verdi's opera Nebuchadonozor
was called Ninus or when Ben Hur was presented or The Daughters of Babylon. That official has
already permitted the performance of Everyman and Hannele. Consequently, it is not easy to
see that the suggested broadening of the basis has taken place.

Moreover, there are many who doubt whether broadening, so as to admit a free trade in what
could be called religious or Scripture drama, is desirable. We do not pretend that the office
of Censor ought to be maintained merely to keep back a flood of plays introducing Scriptural
characters. The office, no doubt, does good as well as harm, but the harm far outweighs the
good. Would it be beneficial if this particular restriction--this working rule that characters
bearing the names of personages of the Old and New Testament are not to be presented on the
stage--were relaxed. There are enthusiastic persons who desire a closer union between Church
and the Stage, and wish to have the theatre employed as a kind of pulpit, who believe that
Scripture plays would be beneficial. It is conceivable that under certain circumstances the
attitude of these persons would be sound, but not under the present circumstances.

Most of our theatres are run as a mere commercial speculation by people who care little enough
about art, and probably nothing about religion. We have had one instance of the sort of thing
that might be expected, The Sign of the Cross, in which a commonplace melodrama was mixed up
with hymns and pseudo-religious talk and miracles, and a ballet as immodest, as pulse-disturbing,
as any given in the theatres or the halls. Many visited the play who had never been to a theatre
before, since they believed that it was really a religious drama outside their ban. Some were
horrified, and from being potential playgoers became rapidly adverse to the stage and all its
works; others were shocked and disturbed and delighted by the exhibition of female flesh in
the ballet, with a result which can easily be guessed. No doubt a number of persons believed
that the piece did good to them and other folk--some people will believe anything.

The people of taste and sensibility, who, whatever their state of religious belief, would regard
with abhorrence the exhibition on the ordinary commercial stage of the Christ whom they were
brought up to regard as Divine, have a title to consideration. The traffic in blasphemy that
would immediately follow the suggested enlargement of the boundary of the theatre is horrible
to contemplate. Such abominations as a combination of Christ and semi-naked women doing more
or less mitigated danses du ventre, would be justified as giving an Oriental colour.

There is another side. It may be taken that our laws against blasphemy have moved a good deal
since Lord Coleridge's famous summing-up concerning the essential mutability of the Common
Law about blasphemy which he gave in Regina v. Ramsey and Foote; if the restriction were removed
what power would prevent the atheists from producing distinctly anti-Christian plays which
might very well cause riots, which certainly would prove a serious counterblast, if discreetly
handled, to the efforts of the Church and Stage enthusiasts. One can conceive every kind of
crank with money producing a play to advocate his particular brand of religion.

We could not expect all the actors chosen to represent Christ to be gentlemen of fine sensibility,
high character, and sincere feeling for art, like Mr Forbes Robertson; it is hardly pleasant
to think of the character in the hands of some members of the profession. One can imagine a
feeling of revulsion if any of the actresses who have made history--in the Divorce Court--were
chosen for the part of the Virgin Mary.

This is said without for one moment suggesting that the players are one whit the worse in their
way of living than the rest of us, or that managers of theatres are wickeder or more unscrupulously
commercial than anyone else. Yet, speaking of the managers, one is forced to admit that the
majority consult the taste of the majority, that many are willing enough to pander to vulgar
cravings, and it is not imaginable that, unless our stage can be put upon a new basis, a freedom
to produce religious or Scriptural drama would fail to cause great scandals.

As the matter stands, the attitude of the Censor, though not logical, is not wholly unsatisfactory;
it is ludicrous enough that he should have adopted an ostrich policy towards Mr Jerome's piece,
yet no harm has been done by the production of this sincere and respectful drama. Indeed, some
good may have come from it. In an ideal world, no doubt, we should all be severely logical;
in England we are radically illogical, and we carry out most of our affairs on a basis of compromises.

If you do not call your leading character Christ in the theatre you may call him Christ outside,
seems the proposition implied in the licence for The Passing of the Third Floor Back, but the
very basis of the authority of the Lord Chamberlain is such that one cannot apply logic to
his decrees and say that because he has permitted this he must sanction that. Some of these
remarks may seem to suggest that it is advisable the office should be retained, which is not
the case. We pay too high a price for it since it tends to paralyse the drama; on the other
hand it is to be hoped that so long as the office exists the holders of it will be very careful
concerning any efforts to exploit the Scriptures for the profit of the theatres.

The success of the St James's play will cause a rush of people, anxious to go "one better"--or
worse--than Mr Jerome. No harm--possibly some good--may come from the present piece, but the
circumstances should be regarded as exceptional. We have few playwrights so earnest as Mr Jerome,
few actors or managers with such high ideals as those of Mr Forbes Robertson. It seems permissible
and advisable to add that this article is not written from the point of view of one who professes
to be "on the side of the angels," but merely as a protest against what in the long run would
be one more blow to our staggering stage.

Anecdotal Plays

It appears that "Percival" of The Referee has made a great discovery. He has found out the
reason why French plays are better than English, is able to put his "finger on the real difference
which exists between French plays and English," he now knows why "many more plays are successfully
adapted from French into English than vice versa." This sounded thrilling, but after finishing
his article the reader was about in the humour of a person who has been promised "an awfully
rippin' new story" and receives a feeble "chestnut."

Mr "Percival" is really like the American who discovered on going home very late at night the
fact that the sun rises in the east, and cackled as much about his discovery as a hen over
her first egg. His explanation is that, "with one exception--Pinero--the English playwright
invents a plot and then writes in characters to carry that plot out. Your French playwright
does not do this.... He takes an idea and works it out with dramatic action instead of taking
a dramatic action and working it out with such incident ideas as may happen along. And sometimes
your French dramatist just takes people with characteristics and lets them work their own play
out for him."

There is no need to seek deeply to find out why "many more plays are successfully adopted from
French into English than vice versa." The explanation is that owing to Parisian prejudice hardly
any English plays of any merit, Shakespeare's excepted, have been adapted, and there is a ferocious
hostility in France to foreign drama.

The modern French drama may be better than the English; perhaps "Percival" hardly asserts that
it is, unless in the passage already quoted and in this phrase: "There is something about three
plays in four in France which is lacking at home, and that something is something good." No
doubt, if we take the past fifty years as a basis for comparison of the two dramas, the French
is the better; but during the last fifteen there has been a change, and one could not make
any sweeping assertion upon the subject as regards the plays of this period, unless it be limited
to the plays produced in the ordinary way of theatrical commerce.

If the alleged superiority exists, one can offer two reasons for it without relying upon the
brilliant discovery of "Percival." The first is the greater freedom of the French dramatist
in choice of subject, and also in treatment; this gives him an enormous advantage.

The second is that, whilst there are almost as many people in Paris who will welcome rubbish
as there are in London, there can also be found a large number of playgoers with a good deal
of intellectual curiosity, whilst the intelligent amateur--using the phrase in its French sense--is
comparatively rare in London. Consequently, the French dramatist has not only more freedom
in subject and treatment than the English, but in addition a greater public of playgoers who
bring their intellect into the auditorium. Probably "Percival" will claim that this second
ground of explanation enters into his, and there is some truth in this.

On the other hand, his statement of fact that our dramatists, with the exception of Pinero,
are mere story-tellers, and that the French authors write plays based upon ideas, is quite
inaccurate.

Roughly, one may put dramas into three categories--the play of anecdote, the play of idea,
and the play of character. As a matter of fact, few plays belong exclusively to any one of
these categories. In which would "Percival" place Shakespeare's? He began to write a play by
borrowing the plot from somebody, and primarily all his pieces may be regarded as anecdotal,
but, in the passage of the story through his mind to the pen, in some cases it became the vehicle
for an idea, and, in all, the story grew to be of infinitely less importance than the characters.

Take Othello. You may give an account of it as a story in which it is merely an adaptation
of another man's work. You may treat it as a study of the idea of jealousy, and be uncertain
whether suspicion is not more correct as a definition than jealousy, or you may consider it
as an amazing gallery of pictures of character. It may be put into each category, and belongs
to all.

Probably the question whether a drama belongs primarily to this, that, or the other of the
categories is as otiose as the discussion whether the hen or the egg came first. No play lives
that does not belong to the second and third category, and it cannot be put upon the boards
without some reliance upon the first. On the other hand, whatever may be the belief of individual
dramatists, it is doubtful whether any dramas are produced primarily based upon "taking people
with characteristics and letting them work out their own play." It is obvious that people,
even people with strongly marked characteristics, can live for years in juxtaposition without
their relation to one another resulting in anything dramatic, or even theatrical. Paula Tanqueray
and her husband might have lived and died unhappily together without offering any materials
to the playwright, and so indeed might any of the characters in any of the plays by the brilliant
author. Only when facts exterior to them begin to play upon the characters dramatically is
there room for drama. There is an enormous amount of plot, psychological or physical, in every
play.

Next to the first, the second category produces the plays most clearly defined. One might take
the plays of Brieux, and some of the dead-and-gone dramas of Charles Reade. Here we have dramas
of idea, more accurately of subject, still more accurately of problem. They are works in which
the dramatist tries to prove something, or, at least, present some problem of social life,
leaving to the audience the task of coming to a conclusion.

However, even M. Brieux cannot get on without category number one, whilst he puts as much of
category number three in his work as he can. He invents a story, and he chooses and endeavours
to display characters as a vehicle for exhibiting his subject. Sometimes, to be just, he gets
along--in a fashion--with a surprisingly small amount of plot, as in Les Bienfaiteurs. Even
then the necessity of having some sort of form makes a good deal of story necessary. Jean Jullien,
the inventor of the phrase "Une tranche de la vie," endeavoured to give plays without formal
beginning or end, unconsciously, perhaps, tried to carry out a desire of Merimée's to write
a play in respect of which the audience needs no knowledge of antecedent facts; but his success--in
more senses than one--was only partial.

The English dramatists of what one might call the Independent Theatre, Stage Society, and Court
Theatre management have struggled to avoid the anecdotal play, sometimes with a brilliant result,
as in The Voysey Inheritance, John Bull's Other Island, or Strife; Mr J.M. Barrie in several
successful works has minimised the story as much as possible.

Why does "Percival" ignore them? Has he overlooked the fact that most of the French dramas
successfully adapted belong primarily to the category he condemns, and nearly all the rest
to a subdivision of number three, ignored by him. This subdivision consists of star plays--that
is, of dramas of theatrical character--in the manufacture of which the French dramatists excel.
Many of the dramas by Dumas fils show an ingenious combination of this subdivision with the
anecdotal play. And Pinero--our exception--how would "Percival" classify His House in Order,
which has a strong story? In reality it is a very adroit mixture of story, idea, and comedy
of character, this is the case with the other works of our leading dramatist.

The fact is that "Percival" has mistaken treatment for conception. All dramatists try to combine
the three categories, but the worst class attaches too much importance to the mere story; unfortunately
our audiences are like the bad dramatist in this respect: hence the almost purely anecdotal
play, like the anecdotal picture, is the most popular.

The Supernatural

That the forbidden is attractive is a commonplace and true. The third party in the divorce
case is often less beautiful than the petitioner, the length of water beyond our own always
promises better sport, the mushrooms seem to grow more thickly in the fields of others. In
drama we see the same law in operation. No canon of art makes the "supernatural" unlawful to
the dramatist, but it is generally looked upon as illegitimate in serious drama. The word "supernatural"
is used in its popular sense, which is well enough understood, but indefinable. Naturally the
dramatist is tempted the more when he sees the novelist using the supernatural effectively.

No wonder the playwright has tried to adapt Frankenstein; he has merely succeeded in presenting
a grotesque unterrible figure where Mrs Shelley gave a thrill of horror. We have had several
plays on the boards which overstep bounds. One can read Mr Jerome's tale "The Passing of the
Third Floor Back" without being oppressed by a sense of the inadequacy of his machinery, but
when Mr Forbes Robertson is supposed on the stage to "blarney" eight or nine people who have
ugly souls into righteousness we are not only unconvinced but actively incredulous. Possibly
to simple minds the affair would be more impressive if the lodger wore a halo supposed to be
invisible to the people on the stage, or produced an occasional flash of lightning or growl
of thunder.

Take that dear old crusted melodrama The Corsican Brothers. The story was thrilling enough
when merely read; it was easy to believe that the Dei Franchi had a special brand of constitution
which enabled them to see the family ghost whilst the more sceptical could talk of brain waves
and suggestions and of subjective phenomena. That is where the modern novelist gets out of
all hobbles; if you will not accept his spook as a genuine, old-fashioned spook, you can hardly
refuse to swallow it as a subjective phenomenon. The blessed word "subjective" extricates him
from all troubles.

The poor dramatist has no such refuge. Occasionally he can work his plot by means of a vision;
and the hypnotic trance has served, as in the case of The Polish Jew; but his ghosts have to
be strictly objective. In fact, using a technical term frivolously, his ghosts expect the ghost
to walk regularly on Fridays. There is no humbug about them; no "Pepper"--but they have to
be taken with a ton of salt!

This difficulty was, perhaps, of no great importance at a time when most people had faith in
ghosts; when the most sceptical did not go further than Madame de Staël, who alleged that she
did not believe in them but was afraid of them. It is not recorded what Benjamin Constant,
her unhappy lover, thought about them. Nowadays things have changed and ghosts and the personal
devil have joined the ranks of the unemployed, or only obtain employment with Mr Stead and
his Julia.

There is, of course, the spook of the spiritualist, who demands serious consideration; but
plays dealing with spiritualism are not common. Perhaps because such playgoers as will accept
the more or less material ghost are even more sceptical than the scientific as to the objective
phenomena of the spiritualist. No doubt managers try to rise to the occasion and to make a
steady advance in ghosts, devils and angels, but the mechanical improvements seem small. Indeed,
in a sense there has been no advance since the days when Pepper's ghost terrified us at the
poor old Polytechnic, and unfortunately the system of Pepper can only be used to a limited
extent. There were moments of thrill in Ulysses at His Majesty's.

The stage angels are the worst of the supernaturals. Because angels are supposed to dwell off
the earth it is assumed that they must fly. Furthermore, it is imagined that as fliers they
belong to the heavier-than-air order, the monoplane variety, and so must have gigantic wings;
no one makes provision for the working of the wings, which would involve tremendous muscular
energy. You may answer that they have miraculous energy wherewith to flap them. If, however,
the miraculous enters into the matter, why not imagine a miraculous method of flying which
does not demand wings--by so doing you would avoid the necessity of making the angels look
like ill-constructed birds. Something "smart" might be done in the way of a "dirigible balloon"
species of angel! Fiends are modelled as flying-machines on the lines of the bat--this may
be taken from the latest Mephisto. The contrivers of stage effects are not to be blamed because
they cannot overcome the difficulties offered by the playwrights. Yet they have not exhausted
their means. They seem to be working on wrong lines, and so, too, are our scene-painters generally;
but that is raising a very large question demanding separate treatment.

Certainly some years ago Mr Gordon Craig experimentally, in a curious piece called Sword or
Song, presented at the Shaftesbury, gave suggestions in the supernatural that deserved attention,
and in a broad way showed the possibility of arriving at striking stage effects by suggestion
rather than actual depiction. It is, indeed, the fault of our play-mounters that they are too
precise about dotting "i's" and crossing "t's," and like the pet photographers of amateurs
they show too much detail.

Years ago, on the first night of Hansel und Gretel at Daly's--what a delightful first night!--for
a while the effect of the troops of angels on the stairs was quite charming--for a while--but,
alas! the stage grew lighter, gauzes were raised, and then we saw plainly the young women of
the chorus, with big wings, and could identify face after face, recollecting this young lady
as formerly a peasant boy in one comic opera, and that as a village maiden in another, and
so on. What a "give away," to use a common effective phrase!

The last prodigious production of Faust? Well, what thinking person can swallow the devil and
the electric sparks from the sword, the wine drawn from the table, the comicalities of the
witches' kitchen, or be moved by the Brocken scenes? It is very well to say that Goethe intended
and expected his drama to be put on the stage, though this can hardly apply to the second part.
Even if he did he cannot have expected such material matters to be treated as of serious importance--of
such importance that, as represented, his great drama seems chiefly contrived to lead up to
spectacular effects, plus a seduction story occasionally hurt by needlessly plain phrases.

It may be said that this is the jam used to induce us to swallow the powder; but really there
is so much jam and so little powder that the benefit of the dose is doubtful. To be just to
Sir Herbert Tree--his Faust sinned no more in the matter than did the Lyceum setting; perhaps
even a little less. Certainly there is rather more Goethe in the matter than Wills introduced.

It may be said that Shakespeare's plays were intended for the stage, and that he introduced
"ghosts," as in Hamlet, Macbeth and Richard III.; possibly he believed in them. Yet, so far
as one can judge from such knowledge as we have of the stage as he knew it and its resources,
the treatment of his ghosts must have been really quite conventional and scenically unimpressive.
There was some gain in this, for the more directly the ghost business is effective the more
the attention of the audience is drawn to it; though the interest of the scene is not in the
ghost but the effect it produces on the other characters; the case is one that may be summed
up in the phrase quoted for us by Bacon--the better the worse.

CHAPTER V

PLAYS OF PARTICULAR TYPES

Unsentimental Drama

It was suggested long ago that all the conceivable tunes would soon have been written, and
possibly, if for "conceivable" one substitutes the word "obvious," there was truth in the suggestion.
On the other hand experience breeds in us the belief that composers of genius could go on inventing
novel melodies for centuries to come. Things have been happening lately, and threaten soon
to occur again, which appear to show that our popular dramatists imagine that there are no
new plots or subjects open to them. It is said that one playwright is busily engaged upon a
novel version of La Dame aux Camellias which is to be distinguished from Dumas' novel and drama
by the fact that the heroine is chaste and does nothing worse than "a bit of flirting." It
is to be hoped that Dumas will never hear of this astounding impudent perversion of his play.
Perhaps ere now he has become hardened by the fact that the Duse has represented Marguerite
as a creature of exquisite purity.

Moreover, it is alleged that somebody is going to write another version of Faust--presumably
the pantomime edition by Wills is copyright. In addition, it appears that Mr Stephen Phillips
has concocted an adaptation of The Bride of Lammermoor in which the story and characters are
vastly improved. Alas, poor Scott! On top of all this we hear of countless adaptations on the
market, so that the ignorant wonder whether our dramatists are played out.

Perhaps the secret is to be discovered in some passages that occurred during the trial of an
action a little while ago, between two publishers, in which there was evidence to the effect
that a book could not be a novel unless it had a love-story.

Of course, if upon our playwrights is imposed the limitation that all their plays must contain
a love-story, the difficulty of the position is very great, and the greater still because they
are not allowed to tell naughty love-stories unless they force upon them a moral ending, and
they are very rarely permitted to indulge in a love-story which does not end in a wedding or
the reconciliation of respectably wedded citizens. No wonder that as a body they seem to be
getting bankrupt in imagination; they appear to be in the position of a cook who is never allowed
to handle anything but sweets.

The state of things is rather curious. It may be often asserted truthfully of the West End
theatres that there are as many love-stories as playhouses. Of late years, notwithstanding
the evidence referred to, some of our novelists have shown a tendency to break away from the
tradition; also some of the unfashionable playwrights exhibit signs of revolt; but the managers
are timid, very timid, in the matter, and this is curious, because one has only to turn to
Shakespeare to see that we have had modern successes with plays in which the love-story is
trifling when it exists at all--Hamlet, for instance, and Macbeth, Julius Caesar, King Lear,
Henry VIII., and other historical pieces. Indeed, as soon as one begins to enumerate it appears
that in most of the Shakespearean plays presented of late years the love interest, if any,
has been a minor matter. Our managers might learn something from this.

There is mighty little sentimental love in the plays of "G.B.S." that have, or have had, a
perilously disturbing vogue. And, indeed, when that ferocious dramatist does handle love it
is in an intensely unsentimental fashion.

Moreover, love in the Gilbert and Sullivan operas is treated with cruel levity. Turn, by the
way, to another great social satirist, Molière; one finds again that love sometimes is ignored,
and when handled at all often treated dryly, or as a matter of little moment. Our most popular
comedy, The School for Scandal, though it has a reconciliation business, is quite independent
of any sentimental matter of importance. In several of the works of Mr Barrie, our most original
popular dramatist, the sentimental interest is slight where it exists at all.

It seems needless to multiply instances; enough has been said to show that it is quite possible
to make money with plays that are not at all sentimental. What a pity, then, that the dramatists
who aim at general popularity should feel themselves constrained to be more or less sentimental,
and also that managers should fight shy of the works of those dramatists, other than Mr Barrie,
who have the courage to write unsentimental plays! For it is to be noticed that in the last
ten years a great many unsentimental English plays have been written and produced by non-commercial
managements. It does not from this follow that all of them ignore love and the relation of
the sexes, or even avoid actual love-stories; but as a class they eschew the sentimental treatment
which is and for a long time has been the distinguishing feature of British Drama.

A particular instance of the effect of the modern tradition may be mentioned. The Beloved Vagabond
had a great success as a novel; it enjoyed a London run as a play of about two months only.
In the book the love-story is a minor matter, treated mainly with a sub-acid humour, and the
author wisely avoids an absurd happy-ever-after conclusion. The play was supersaturated with
sentiment, with a sentiment which drove out nearly all the humour and, roughly speaking, all
the plausibility. Is it easy to doubt that it is the sentimental treatment which has caused
the history of the play to be so different from that of the novel?

There are signs that the public is growing rather tired of molasses, which in fact is ceasing
to be "golden" syrup. The main effect, apart from purely technical matters, of the new drama,
that practically speaking began with the production of The Doll's House at the Great Queen
Street Theatre, has been destructive; the outcome has included some brilliant plays, the drawing
power of which has never been fairly and fully tested; but the most important result has been
the discontentment of the ordinary playgoer with the fare which once would have delighted him.
Many bubbles have been pricked; many conventions killed; many plays ridiculed by houses that
once would have accepted them eagerly.

Numerous causes have contributed to the fact that during the last few years the total sum lost
in the London playhouses has been enormous, despite some big successes, several of which have
been of unsentimental plays--such as Little Mary--and it seems to be time for the managers
and playwrights to begin to consider the question whether they cannot go farther afield and
handle themes from which they have held aloof hitherto. Gorgeousness of mounting has ceased
to help managers; even the maidens in their teens have grown sophisticated, and jeer at the
bread-and-butter love-stories; and successful modern French drama offers a much smaller proportion
of adaptable plays than used to be the case. There must be a bottom to the deepest purse, and
things can hardly go on in the legitimate playhouses as they have during the last few years;
so it seems to be almost time for the managers to try to get out of a groove and look about
for the unsentimental drama.

Since this was written the Phillips-Comyns Carr version of Faust was produced and not accepted
by the critical, whilst the Phillips version of The Bride of Lammermoor, called The Lost Heir,
was a failure and deserved its fate. Also it may be added Mr Frohman has produced Strife, Justice,
Misalliance and The Madras House.

The Second-hand Drama

For some time past people have been seeking an explanation of the weakness of our modern drama,
of the fact that except in the byways of the theatre, and with rare instances on the highways,
it is sadly unoriginal. Numerous causes have been suggested, and probably many have played
their part. There is one element in the matter the importance of which has been overlooked--it
is the mania for making adaptations. No one will deny that most of the adaptations make bad
plays, and that a large proportion prove unsuccessful; and the making of them has an evil effect
upon the makers. The matter under discussion is not adaptations for the English stage of foreign
plays--a topic of great importance, for the lack of protection to the foreign dramatists during
a long period was a great cause of the sterility of British drama; and the habit of importing
has not ceased merely because the foreigner acquired the right to payment. Many a playwright
who might have become an original dramatist had all his power of imagination and invention
atrophied through disuse.

Nowadays we import less than formerly, but our playwrights still produce the second-hand drama,
getting their material ready-made from novels, and they suffer in the same way as their predecessors,
and injure their natural gifts. This is not an entirely new thing. It may be suggested that
Shakespeare was one of the most persistent of adapters. He may very well be left out of the
question. Such genius as his has its own laws and privileges, and cannot very well be brought
in as an element when discussing the procedure of much lesser men, and yet few critics will
deny that in some instances his plays were injured by his following too closely the course
of his original. Perhaps in his case the gifts of imagination and invention were sometimes
dulled because he was to such a great extent an adapter.

The idea of the novelist may inspire a dramatist with an idea for a play, but the novelist's
treatment of his idea hardly ever supplies the dramatist with useful materials. We have had
scores of radically bad plays adapted by clever men from good novels. At first sight it looks
as if the playwright would gain an advantage from using ready-made materials, but careful consideration
and experience show that this is not the case; he is overwhelmed by excess of material, and
his task of selection is appallingly difficult.

Moreover, his material is all in the wrong form, and has to be transformed--and the process
of transformation requires great skill.

For it must be remembered that the methods of the dramatist and the novelist as a broad proposition
are entirely different; and when the playwright is dealing with a long, finely-written, complex
novel he can hardly expect his adaptation to bear a greater resemblance to the original than
that of an easy pianoforte transcription to one of the later operas of Wagner.

One need only consider any of the novels of Dickens and the stage version that impudently bears
its name to see how entirely crushed the dramatist has been by excess of material--like a Tarpeia
by the gifts of the enemy--by difficulty in selection, and in transformation, and recollect
that the product has almost always been an inconsecutive story, unintelligible to those unacquainted
with the book, destitute of the peculiar atmosphere of Dickens, irritating to lovers of the
novel because pet characters have been entirely suppressed or cut down nearly to nothing, and
only recognisable in many cases as a version of the original on account of costumes, names,
make-up, scraps of eccentric dialogue, and general trend of the mutilated story.

Now, seeing that there are upon record a vast number of adaptations that have failed, a number
that bears a proportion to the successful far higher than the proportion of failures in original
works, it seems worth while to consider for a little what is at the bottom of the matter, since
to do so may prevent some playwrights from wasting their time and other people's money.

First, one may ask why so many dramatists indulge in the rather inglorious work of adaptation.
No doubt there is one great advantage in producing an adaptation of a successful novel. A large
mass of ready-made advertisement exists: of the thousands or tens or hundreds of thousands
who read a popular novel, a very large proportion feel curious to see it upon the stage. Consequently
the adaptation starts with the enormous aid of having been advertised very effectively on a
big scale. This element alone is not sufficient to command success; for if the piece is indifferent,
if the critics condemn it, if the reception is unfavourable and the unofficial opinion of playgoers
is hostile, it can do little to save the work, since the readers of the book get the idea that
the dramatist has made a mess of it and they keep away, and so of course does the general public.

It is, however, commonly believed that it is easier to manufacture a play from a book than
to write an original drama. People imagine that the playwright, finding characters, plot and
incidents ready-made in the novel, can produce the piece with less trouble and difficulty than
if he has to look for them at large. This is a delusion founded upon the failure to perceive
the radical difference between the technique of the novelist and the dramatist. It is true
that in some cases adaptations have had enormous success: one might take two modern instances,
The Little Minister and Sherlock Holmes. The latter really confirms these remarks. The general
public would fancy that in the stories of "Sherlock Holmes" there are plenty of effective plots.
The ingenious authors of the play were shrewd enough to perceive this was not the case; consequently
they merely used certain characters from the tales and invented an entirely new story. Later
on Sir Arthur did find one story suitable, and The Speckled Band has been successful as a lurid
melodrama at the Adelphi and the Globe.

In The Little Minister success was achieved by entirely vulgarising a charming book, by throwing
away all that distinguished it, and converting what might be called a delicately sentimental
comedy into a farce. We are not, however, dealing with the question from the point of view
of the novelist's credit; incidentally it must be observed that there are few modern cases
on record where the play has not borne to the novel the relation of a crude black-and-white
copy to a picture.

The difficulties are two: objective and subjective. The second is the subtler, therefore the
more dangerous. The adapter, being well acquainted with the novel, rarely succeeds in forgetting
that the general public is not, and he almost invariably assumes that the audience will supply
from memory matters that he has left out. In the case of most adapted plays events that appear
utterly improbable to those ignorant of the novel seem quite likely to the people who have
read it and can supply the missing facts which explain the improbable matters. To the adapter,
particularly when he is also the novelist, the characters and events have a real existence,
and his task, unlike that of the original playwright, does not seem to be that of bringing
them into existence but merely of exhibiting them. Naturally, then, he takes comparatively
little pains to prove what to him is axiomatic.

The main objective difficulty is due to the fact that a play is a very short thing--though,
alas! this does not always seem to be the case--and a novel is relatively long and often has
many characters. In some cases, the playwright attempts to deal with this difficulty by ignoring
the existence of half the people who figure in the original. Even then, a mass of explanations
has to be jettisoned. There is worse trouble than this: the characters built up in the novel
by hundreds of fine touches have to be presented in the play by a few bold strokes. An extraordinary
art is necessary in what is not a work of mere transcription, but almost a work of reconception.

There is the further vast difficulty that whilst in most cases the novelist's procedure is
to work on a system of exciting curiosity, it is an unwritten law of drama, almost universally
true, that there must be no surprises for the audience, except, it may be, in farcical plays
that do not pretend to represent life truly and in matters of detail. No doubt, unconscientious
readers often commit an act of treason to the author, and cheat him by beginning at the end.
One may urge that no one expects a play to do full justice to the novel, and that it is permissible
to leave out much. The important fact, however, is that the much necessarily left out in the
case of good novels as a rule is exactly that which distinguishes them from the bad. The atmosphere
vanishes; secondary characters, often the most pleasing, have to be eliminated or rendered
shadowy; thrilling incidents must be cut for want of space, and the remainder is almost inevitably
the bare bones of the book, which never, however, really constitute anything like a complete
skeleton.

Plays with a Purpose

During one season we had a comparatively large number of plays with a purpose--for instance,
An Englishman's Home, The Head of the Finn, Strife, and The House of Bondage.

For the sake of convenience let us refer to them and works of a similar character as "problem
plays" although that useful term got spoilt some years ago by acquiring a secondary meaning,
and became applied almost exclusively to pieces concerning fallen women.

In respect of this rather rare branch of drama there is one matter worthy of notice which has
not been quite sufficiently discussed. Yet the point is one referred to several times in criticisms
contained in these articles. This is the author's duty to write in such a fashion as to seem
impartial. It is needless to suggest that he ought to be impartial, since no one ever takes
a real interest in any debatable matter without ceasing to be impartial, and nobody will ever
write a play worth seeing unless he takes a deep interest in his subject.

Now, looking at the four plays already mentioned, one may see to some extent how this impartiality
operates. There is a difficulty connected with An Englishman's Home, for it was alleged--and
also denied--that the author had no intention when writing it of dealing seriously with the
question of national defence and invasion, and it must be recollected that some alterations
were made without his knowledge, which included the addition of a vulgar clap-trap ending,
that may do him real injustice. It has generally been regarded as a problem play, as intended
to exhibit to us dramatically the fact that we live fondly in fancied security. As drama, it
was seriously injured by the obvious bias, by the want of impartiality; it was taken by some
to be a warning that we must not trust to the Territorials; but, although the conscriptionist
party has welcomed it as establishing their view, its manifest injustice to the citizen soldier
has actually caused it to be used as an argument the other way. Moreover, the feeling of insincerity
caused by the bias seriously diminished its acting value in the eyes of the critical. The fact
of its use as an argument by people of almost opposite views does not prove its impartiality,
but rather that its injustice has bred a reaction.

The next of the four is The House of Bondage, which had less success than it deserved. The
piece manifestly was intended to prove that a woman ought to be entitled at law to a dissolution
of marriage on the single ground of her husband's infidelity; the proposition was put in the
form of a claim to equality of rights in the sexes to divorce. The question has more than one
side, and there is a good deal to be said against Mr Obermer's contention; unfortunately, the
author did not attempt to put forward the other view, or even to suggest that there is one.
The result was that only those who share the opinion of the author were in sympathy with the
piece; to others it seemed manifestly unfair; in fact, the author appeared anxious to convince
those who favour his own views, and not those opposed to them.

In The Head of the Firm and Strife one had quite a different state of things. The dramatist
played the advocatus diaboli very cleverly, and the other side felt that its case had been
stated fairly. The best way to convince people of anything is to present their own views to
them in a fashion which they deem just, and then offer them reasons for doubting the truth
of their opinions. Both works obviously are anti-capitalist in tendency, and yet, in different
degrees and different ways, the capitalist view was stated so fairly, whilst the evil consequences
of it were shown so vigorously, that many people who were on the side of the capitalist were
forced to think, and therefore to doubt.

Mr Galsworthy bravely went so far as to hint, without stating the proposition, that what seems
bad in the labour point of view is really an evil consequence of the capitalist attitude. In
this respect he has followed, legitimately, the treatment of the greatest "problem play" yet
written, The Doll's House, a work that in hundreds of thousands of households has caused something
like a revolution in the relations between husband and wife. Ibsen used the appearance of impartiality
so finely, stated the husband's case so fairly, that there were terrific quarrels as to what
was his point of view, and the result of the quarrels and discussions was the serious consideration
by people of the question dealt with in the drama. It is this discussion that the reformer
desires, being confident that the discussion of things long deemed right without discussion
is the surest road to reform.

From the point of view of dramatic art this impartiality is essential, because without it the
necessary impersonal element cannot be given to a play. In such a work as the prison drama
It's never too Late to Mend, by Charles Reade, one seems to see all the time the hand of the
perfervid, almost frantic, reformer, and the same remark applies to several of his novels.
Of course, one does not ask the playwright to be, but only to seem, impartial. To demand real
impartiality would be to ask that reality which is out of place upon the stage, the function
of which is, not to present themselves, but, to borrow Hamlet's idea, reflections of them,
and, it would be more accurate to say, to give ideas of them by presenting images intentionally
distorted.

For that fourth wall, the existence of which Mr Jerome K. Jerome rather quaintly and childishly
suggested by the fender and fireirons laid in front of the footlights in The Passing of the
Third Floor Back, really operates as a distorting glass, although it is not there. This sounds
a little paradoxical, yet is clear enough. Things upon the stage have not the same effect if
regarded from the farther side of the footlights as when considered from the nearer. This does
not apply merely to things seen, but also to things heard. In this respect there is a resemblance
to the work of the impressionist painter. Speaking more closely, one may say that the scene-painter's
canvas, with what, when seen at a few feet, are coarse splashes and daubs of colour, is typical
of the whole theatrical production. It is imperative, then, that even the impartiality should
not be real impartiality. Moreover, absolute impartiality would involve in many cases the suppression
of the criticism of life which is the essence of comedy.

"Problem plays," works endeavouring truly to represent to the audience real life, and involving
a criticism of life, are so rare that it is worth drawing attention to a danger to dramatists.
There is no need to point it out to Mr Galsworthy, who in The Silver Box and in Strife shows
that he fully appreciates the point; nor to Mr Granville Barker, who produced Strife, for in
Waste, which is in most respects the greatest English drama of our times, he exhibited it with
extraordinary intensity, and also in The Voysey Inheritance, an admirable play, which it is
to be hoped we shall soon see again. It is to the beginners that one would like to insist on
the proposition that you must not push your views down the throats of the audience, but leave
spectators to draw their own conclusions, taking pains to see that the conclusions which they
fancy are drawn voluntarily by them in reality are forced upon them. Indeed, you must imitate
the skilful professor of legerdemain, and "palm" your views upon the audience as he "palms"
a card upon his victim.

Drama and Social Reform

Probably at no time and in no country has there been so much fuss about the stage as nowadays
in England, and the annual budget of our theatre involves millions. Moreover, people often
talk about it as a great educational force, a great instrument for progress, a great vehicle
for the dissemination of ideas and so on. Yet the theatre in England remains almost entirely
aloof from real life. To the majority of playgoers, an immense majority, it is merely a place
of entertainment, except so far as the plays of Shakespeare are concerned; they are supposed
to have some educational value, of what nature goodness knows.

Perhaps this phenomenon is not surprising, if one regards the matter historically. The theatre
has never forgotten that the Puritans suppressed it for a time and have always been hostile,
and it identifies them with the Whig, the Liberal, the Radical, and the Socialist. It recollects
that the Royalists revived it, and have always been friendly, and they are represented by the
Tory, the Conservative, the Unionists and the Tariff Reformers. So the stage does not lend
itself readily to ideas of reform, or sober study of life, or sober anything--indeed, it has
long been a little too closely connected with the trade.

There must be players, managers, and some playgoers belonging to the Liberals or Radicals,
but they are much in the minority: rarely, if ever, is a suggestion of Liberalism uttered in
a theatre except by way of well-welcomed scorn. We are almost all pro-Bungs, House-of-Lords
men, and ardent Tariff Reformers.

There is another important element in the matter--the theatre appears to be peculiarly engrossing
to those connected with it. Persons entitled to speak have often said that to most of the people
attached to the stage the theatre is a little world apart, in which they are content to live
almost oblivious of the greater world around. It has been asserted that during the last siege
of Paris, whilst some of the players went out and fought bravely, the majority were more concerned
at the fate of the stage than that of the city, and an actor of some eminence once bitterly
declared that the majority of his confrères had no interest outside the "shop" and never talked
anything but "shop."

It may be that all classes of stage-folk are tarred with the same brush; that these remarks
concerning the actors apply to the managers, the dramatists, and the critics. Moreover, there
are certainly exceptions; indeed, it is well known that several players of distinction take
an active part in civic life. At any rate, the fact remains that the stage seems to concern
itself very little with the improvements of social life.

In a nebulous way the theatre plays with certain aspects of the relations between the two sexes,
but without seriously considering any question of feasible reform. Upon one aspect which seemed
to promise matter for powerful drama we had only one important work--I refer to the Deceased
Wife's Sister question, which was handled in an able play by a Mr Gatti, and presented at the
Court Theatre. Miss Olga Nethersole acted very powerfully in it. One would have thought that
this and other questions of legislation would have attracted the attention of dramatists; they
did at one time. The strenuous Charles Reade was prodigious in his stage attacks upon bad laws,
and effective as well. At the present moment MM. Brieux and Paul Hervieux are flogging some
of the laws of France, and the German stage has seen a good many pieces which before the word
became demonetised one would have called Problem plays.

Looking back upon the English drama of the last twenty years one notices as a curiosity that
it is the woman rather than the man dramatist who appreciates the utility of the stage as a
means for seeking reform. Uncle Tom's Cabin, one of the most tremendous law-changing influences
ever exercised by fiction, came from the pen of a woman, though it may be that Mrs Beecher
Stowe was not the author of any of the stage versions presented over here. Taking a long jump
from the sixties, one finds that in modern times--indeed, within the last few years--four women
dramatists have tackled political or politico-social problems. There was the Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttleton, and her able, interesting play called Warp and Woof, dealing with the question of
shopgirls and the Factory Act. Next in order of date came Votes for Women, by Miss Elizabeth
Robins, a brilliant novelist and admirable actress, a little too much carried away by her subject
to do more than write one big living scene in a conventional play. Mrs Alfred Mond (now Lady
Alfred Mond) is the author of a short piece dealing with Tariff Reform. Not long ago we had
a revival of Diana of Dobson's, Miss Cicely Hamilton's valuable comedy, in which the "living-in"
system of shopgirls and the question of the cruel fines imposed upon them was vividly exhibited.
Lady Bell gave us a very able drama concerning a social question in The Way the Money Goes.

What native plays have we had by men during the period covered by these four ladies dealing
with similar questions? Mr Bernard Shaw has been running amok during this time and before in
a kind of "down-with-everything" way, but his philosophy of the stage is as terribly destructive
as that of Ibsen, and except in Widowers' Houses, and perhaps Mrs Warren's Profession, few
of his works handle directly matters capable of being dealt with by legislation. Years earlier,
in The Middleman and Judah, Mr Henry Arthur Jones tackled two questions and strikes have been
treated more than once--notably in George Moore's clever, interesting, uneven work, The Strike
at Arlingford. Much further back there was Man and Wife, an attack upon the system of irregular
marriages still existing in Scotland and some of the States of the Union. Probably there have
been some other native works touching more or less directly upon questions of legislative reform
within my time, but it is difficult to remember all of them; yet there are many burning matters
to-day with ample elements of drama in them.

Probably the Censor is almost blameless in this affair. Since the days of The Happy Land he
has not allowed politicians to be presented upon the stage; but this has little bearing upon
the question. There has been interference with some scenes concerning "ragging" in the army.
The office bearer has always been very fidgety as far as the army is concerned; but, in all
likelihood, would not prevent the reasonable treatment upon the stage of any of the matters
already referred to, though perhaps an Education Bill play would have difficulties in his hands,
owing to the introduction of religious topics. It seems curious that the women are keener in
seeking to use the stage, a tremendous weapon for the purposes of reform, than men, and the
explanation is by no means obvious or necessarily flattering to men.

Some day those whom one may generally designate as Puritans will become sensible of the vast
potentialities of drama, and will see that it is foolish to leave all the good tunes to the
devil. As a result, no doubt, we shall suffer for a while from a lot of bad plays with a good
purpose. Yet there will be a useful infusion of new blood and new ideas, and our drama, instead
of running round and round after its tail, will get out of its present little vicious circle
and become a living force in the country, instead of a mere medium of entertainment, and of
entertainment which rarely has any substantial value from an artistic point of view.

In connexion with these remarks the section "Plays with a Purpose" should be read--if possible.
It should be added that Mr Galsworthy's admirable play, Justice, has had some effect upon the
treatment of prisoners.

CHAPTER VI

THE PHENOMENA OF THE STAGE

The Optics

Thick-and-thin admirers of Duse, an actress of indisputable genius, used to praise her because
she dispensed with the "make-up" that other players deem necessary. They saw in this a glorious
fidelity to nature. Their position became a little ridiculous when, somewhat later, the actress--possibly
in compliance with the advice of critical worshippers--adopted the ordinary devices of the
stage and pressed into service the make-up box and even the aid of the wigmaker.

Presumably the change in policy was due to a more careful consideration of the optics of the
stage. For it may be assumed that she "made up" in order to counteract the privative effects
of the stage lights and appear neither more nor less beautiful and expressive to the public
in the playhouse than to her friends in her drawing-room. This leads to the important paradox
that in the theatre you must be artificial if you wish to appear natural; that on the stage,
verisimilitude is greater truth than truth itself; or, to use the popular oxymoron, you must
be "falsely true." In this respect the matter of "make-up" is only an instance of a general
law prevailing in all matters theatrical.

Let no one think less of the players on account of it, for it is this fact that entitles the
actor to speak of his art and not merely of his craft. It is because the player must select,
eliminate, exaggerate, diminish and, in a word, modify his matter but may not be photographic,
that he is entitled to call himself an artist.

The term "photographic" used in this sense is rather unfair, for the photographer has become
an artist by recognizing the fact that he too must select, etc. No doubt "make-up" renders
other services, and belongs to the artifices as well as the arts of the stage, since it has
the advantage in some cases of rendering the plain beautiful--to the discomfiture of stage-door
loafers, and, indeed, possesses an abominable democratic effect. Of course, too, it has legitimate
value in effecting disguises, in changing young into old--its efforts in the contrary direction,
as a rule, are ghastly failures--and in effecting transformations of the exterior of persons.
However, "make-up," despite its mysteries, is but a small element in "the optics of the theatre,"
which term is here used largely--and inaccurately--in relation to all the phenomena covered
by the paradox already mentioned.

The player, having counterbalanced with "make-up" the robbery effected by the stage illumination
and also by the disadvantage of distance, has to turn himself to the adjustment of other matters.
One is this--he must recognize that his author labours under similar conditions, and should
not be "photographic."

When the dramatist in the dialogue has exaggerated the play of light and shade, bringing, indeed,
legitimately for the sake of effect to his speeches, that energy of chiaroscuro which gives
us a pleasure, somewhat distrustful in the pictures of Joseph Wright of Derby, the player must
attune his manner in order to make it congruous with the highly seasoned conversation so that
there being no clash of methods, no jarring will result.

Every change of convention on the part of the author demands a corresponding change in the
actor. Clearly, he must speak verse differently from prose, though there are foes to poetry
who beg him to break up the lines and defeat the efforts of the poet; and he must adopt a manner
in a blank-verse tragedy unsuitable to a play by Mr Barrie. Moreover, he ought to aim at seeming
natural in both. Here is the rub; he must aim at seeming, not being, natural. Obviously, one
cannot deliver blank verse naturally; such, however, is the power of make-believe in the audience
that if the dramatist and his company can engage the sympathy of the spectators, a fairy tale
in rhymed lines, a tragedy in unrhymed verse, a melodrama with flatulent phrases, and a comedy
seeking the most exact reproduction of modern life permissible may seem equally plausible,
credible, natural.

It is to be noted, too, that the form of artificiality of truth varies not only with the type
and quality of the drama but with the nature of the audience. Speaking of our times, one may
say that a little greater vigour of contrast is desirable in the provinces than in town, and
in the "B" towns than the "A," in the "C" than the "B," and goodness knows what violence is
not needed in the "fit-up" shows. There are reasons for believing that our ancestors demanded
a more full-blooded style of acting than is relished by their anaemic descendants, and it is
possible that such a performance as convinced the eighteenth century of the genius of some
of its players might cause laughter nowadays, though neither audience nor actors would deserve
censure.

Within the time of even our younger critics there have been at least two tragedians who enjoyed
an immense reputation save in town, but failed to win success in the West End of the Metropolis,
though outside they held their own against the greatest favourites; and the London critics
levelled at them the dreadful charge of "barn-storming"--a charge which some of us no doubt
would make against several of the greatest tragedians in our proud records were they to appear
to-day and act as in their own times.

It is a feature of the actor's art that its excellence is never absolute. An audience is entitled
to say, "What care I how good he be if he seem not good to me?" A performance that does not
move the spectators is not only a failure but to some extent a culpable failure, since the
actor's art is more utterly ephemeral than any other--possibly by aid of gramophone, biograph,
and the like some fairly effective records will be made in the future--but, this consideration
apart, he may not even take heed for the morrow. At the moment his mission is to move the particular
collection of people before him, and though they may be culpable for not being moved he will
not be wholly blameless.

Possibly this is putting the matter a little too harshly, and the observations should be considered
as applicable only to a particular "run" and not to an individual night. Doubtless, even thus
restricted, it suggests that the player should make a remarkable series of modifications in
his methods which are not within the practical politics of the stage; and, indeed, these remarks
are pushed purposely too far in order to draw attention to the fact that the actors are prone
to consider their own "reading" of a part without reference to the audience, and even, in some
cases, to the author. In other words, they are misled by the delusive term "create," so often
applied to acting as well as to millinery. The word is inappropriate to the rapidly evanescent.
"Original interpreters" is the highest phrase that can be justified.

These observations would be incomplete without some reference to more material aspects of the
"optics." For instance, one may comment on the fact that, regardless of seating arrangements,
which in almost every theatre cause a considerable number of people to be unable to see the
exits on one side or the other, important business is often transacted in the wings, to the
intense annoyance of would-be spectators, who are left out in the cold, and of course imagine
that what they miss is the plum of the play; also valuable scenes are sometimes played so far
back that people in the higher parts of the house are unable to see them properly. This sounds
perilously like an invitation to players to take the centre of the stage close to the footlights,
but of course the matter is one of degree.

Yet, at the least, it must be urged that nothing, the exact understanding of which is necessary
to the audience, should happen much on one side or very far back; to this may be added the
suggestion, hardly novel, that the first few minutes of each act should be confined to immaterial
affairs; blame the unpunctual--even if you blame unfairly, since, as a rule, the entr'acte
warning bell is inaudible in most parts of the theatre--but do not make the guiltless suffer
by presenting important matters during the time when the stage is half hidden by the people
struggling (through a passage as a rule shamefully narrow) to get to their seats. Sardou's
precepts may be pushed too far, and we do not need a whole first act of nothing in particular,
but facts should be recognized and simple common-sense considered. There is always some trouble
during the first few minutes of each act.

Make-up

The word "make-up" is very ugly, but seems irreplaceable, and therefore is employed in the
book called "The Art of Theatrical Make-up," by Mr Cavendish Morton, the object of which is
to tell players--amateurs as well as professionals--how to make-up. No doubt it will render
useful service to the actor--to the actor, since nothing is said in it about the actress and
make-up in relation to her.

Thereby hangs something of importance. The actress has held her own against the actor: even
the most unkind critic of the fair sex cannot deny that the achievements of women on the stage
are as great as the achievements of men, although they have been a shorter time at the game,
and have not had so many splendid parts written for them. Yet make-up has been of little assistance
to actresses.

Eleanora Duse at the present moment is probably accepted as the greatest living player of the
world. Of late years she has, to some extent, used make-up, but with great moderation. One
can imagine her tossing aside a book such as Mr Morton's, and asking what on earth it has to
do with the art of acting, and I fancy that tremendously rapid speech of hers would be used
effectively if she were to read such a sentence as this: "Is not half the battle won when one
perfectly physically realizes the character to be impersonated?" By which the author clearly
means that half the battle is won when, by the aid of nose-paste or "toupee" paste and grease-paint,
powder, crêpe hair, spirit-gum, wig and the like, one has arrived at looking like the character.

Instead of this being half the battle, it does not amount to a tenth. Of course something must
be done to counteract the effect of the lighting on the stage, and no one can complain if the
players use the well-known devices to heighten their charms; and wigs and false beards and
moustaches and whiskers may be serviceable at times; but to take such matters seriously seems
an egregious mistake. Indeed, when looking at the result, one is inclined, unconsciously, to
use a criticism by employing the phrase, "What a capital make-up." Mr So-and-so enters as Caliban,
or Napoleon Bonaparte, or Charles II., or Falstaff. In a few seconds, or it may be minutes,
we can identify him without the aid of the programme; and, of course, we say, "what a capital
make-up," but the whole thing is merely a Madame Tussaud aspect of drama.

Make-up has comparatively little to do with the capacity of an actor for differentiating his
parts. Take Mr Dennis Eadie, who has an extraordinary gift for changing his personality. Those
who have seen this admirable actor as Henry Jackson in The Return of the Prodigal, as Lord
Charles Cantelupe in Waste, and Mr Wylder in Strife, must admit that changes of voice, of gesture
and manner, and general expression of countenance are of greater value than tons of the cleverest
make-up.

The service of make-up in its higher branches is merely to render, or, rather, seem to render,
actors fit for tasks for which they are physically unsuited. Take for instance, the nose; there
is a picture of Mr Morton with flattened nose and enlarged nostrils; he is said to represent
Othello. "The nose is first depressed by crossing it near the tip with a silk thread, which
is tied at the back of the head. A small piece of kid is placed under the thread, thus keeping
it from coming in contact with the skin. The nostrils are built out until the nose has a Moorish
appearance."

Now, nobody thinks a whit the worse or less of Mr Forbes Robertson's Othello because he played
no tricks with his striking aquiline nose; and the idea that he would have gained anything
by flattening it with a bit of silk thread is absurd. What he would have gained would have
been a feeling of physical inconvenience during the quiet passages, and terror during the tremendous
scenes of passion at the thought that the string might snap.

There are photographs of other noses, built up with nose-paste or, preferably, with "toupee"
paste; one is of Falstaff, another of Shylock, and there is also one called "the Professor."
In each case the whole nose looks wooden; it may be suggested that in an ordinary way movements
of the nose do not play much of a part in expressing emotions, yet we have phrases about swelling
nostrils and turning up one's nose that possess some foundation in fact. Further, one can hardly
render the nose a dead thing without, to some extent, effecting the mobility of other features.
Probably the built-up nose of Coquelin as Cyrano de Bergerac will be thrown in my face; it
must, however, be remembered, that apart from his large elastic mouth Coquelin's face was rather
wooden, and he relied for expression chiefly on voice, mouth, gesture and movement. No doubt
in this particular character there is a necessity, and, therefore, a justification for a built-up
nose; but more than one actor has failed to fight successfully against the artificial proboscis
of Cyrano.

Used as more than a counteracting or embellishing contrivance, "make-up" is curiously ineffective.
Many Napoleons have appeared on the stage, only one of them by a writer capable of even suggesting
the distinguishing qualities of the man of genius. In most cases there have been advance paragraphs
about the pictures, miniatures, statues, statuettes, medallions, bas-reliefs, etc., consulted
by the actor, and concerning the contrivances of the wigmaker, even the bootmaker and tailor.
What has been the outcome? Merely that for half-a-minute people have said: "What a clever make-up,"
and for the rest of the time one has been no more content to accept the player as Jupiter Scapin
than if he had washed his face, brushed his hair and acted in his dress clothes.

Does Mr Cavendish Morton think players were really worse off before the latest refinements
in make-up were invented? Some of the greatest acting triumphs of the world were accomplished
when the players dressed their parts absurdly, trusting almost exclusively to their own powers.

One is forced to wonder to what extent covering the face with the mass of muck hinders the
actor in his work. People can be trained to endure it, but it would be interesting to see the
difference in the performance of a given part by an actor with an elaborate make-up--false
nose, etc.--and by the same actor without. Mr Arthur Bourchier, when growing a beard for the
purpose of playing Henry VIII., stated that he would have been embarrassed by a sham beard.
Can it be that the triumph that we sometimes see, of the actress over the actor, is partly
due to the fact that she reduces make-up to the minimum?

No one denies the necessity for make-up. When young players have to represent old people it
is their duty to take advantage of the advice of experts such as Mr Morton, and every one may
find valuable hints in his book.

Gesture

Some years ago, at one of the theatrical clubs, the existence of which is one of the many tokens
of the great interest at present taken in the drama, Mr Alfred Robbins, a very able, highly
esteemed critic, gave a lecture upon "The Value of Ballet in Dramatic Art," which was illustrated
charmingly. For, in order to show how a story could be interpreted without words, Miss Genée,
the brilliant dancer, ably assisted by Miss D. Craske, represented the ballet scene from Nicholas
Nickleby, between the infant phenomenon and the Indian.

There was no little discussion afterwards upon the question whether the art of miming, one
of the two main elements of the ballet, is or can be serviceable to the ordinary stage. Several
seemed to have the opinion that the art of dumb show is almost useless to the player, the argument
being that, as far at least as modern comedies are concerned, so little gesture is used on
the stage that training in the mode of employing it is superfluous. The introduction of trouser
pockets was said to have destroyed the need for gesture. In such views lie certain dangerous
fallacies.

The actor who thinks that by mode of speech and facial display, and without carefully calculated
gesture, he can carry through a part in a modern comedy probably is misled by the thought that
the English are more sober in gesture than the Latin races: and his contempt for the work of
the mime is based on a belief that certain purely conventional gestures, inapplicable save
in wordless scenes, constitute the whole materials of the mime's art. The mime certainly has
a kind of dumb language with a limited vocabulary, understood, unfortunately, by few English
people save those connected with the stage; part of his silent speech has never crept into
the common language; yet to sneer at it as conventional is wrong, it is merely a case of certain
conventional gestures not having been generally adopted, and therefore remaining unintelligible
to the world.

For most of our gestures are conventional. Nearly all peoples understand what the European
means when he shakes his head and when he nods it; nevertheless, there are races which use
these movements in an exactly opposite sense. The offer to rub noses as a sign of welcome employed
by some tribes was misunderstood by early explorers, and when, in friendly spirit, certain
tribes stroked the waistcoat of the missionary, he guessed that they were cannibals.

Kissing (in one aspect a matter of gesture) is unused by whole nations, and so, too, is handshaking.
It has been said by a traveller that the vulgar operation described by Barham in the line "Put
his thumb unto his nose and spread his fingers out" is a mark of courtesy and esteem in one
remote nation; nor is putting out the tongue a sign of contempt everywhere. Certain of the
gestures of ballet still strictly conventional in England are employed outside the theatre
in France. Gesture and facial expression, except so far as mechanically due to emotion, are
entirely conventional, though some of the conventions are so old as to have become second nature.

Most people are unaware how largely they adopt the conventions; this unconscious adoption in
the end has turned the conventional into the natural. It is the study of this conventional-natural
which enables the mime to accomplish remarkable feats; combining it with simple descriptive
movements, and a few of the gestures still purely conventional in England, Signor Rossi, in
A Pierrot's Life, was able to delight our audiences by his dumb-show narration of the complicated
tale of the two pigeons, and Signora Litini in the same piece showed with subtlety a whole
gamut of emotions. Miss Genée, at the Empire, without uttering a sound, used to be more eloquent
than many of our players with whole lengths of dialogue. To a great extent Duse fascinates
most playgoers by her plastic art, since they do not understand her speech.

Now, to employ to its full extent the art of the mime in conjunction with spoken speech would
be absurd. The light and shade in the speech of the most "natural" actor--say, Mr Charles Hawtrey--is
violently exaggerated on account of the peculiar acoustics of the theatre; amongst other things,
the player has to address those far off in the galleries as well as those close to in the stalls,
and therefore his work requires a series of compromises like that of a piano-tuner anxious
to avoid "wolves" or a politician eager to win votes. Moreover, on account of the lack of speech
the plastic art of the mime involves great exaggeration in the conventional-natural gestures
and also in the movements and facial expression intended to represent those mechanically caused
by emotion.

