The year 1796 was a formidable year for England. Prussia and Spain had given up her alliance.
Belgium and Holland had been taken possession of by the French. Austria was still firm, but
her armies were dispirited, her generals had lost their reputation, her statesmen had been
baffled, her finances were supported only by English loans, and France was already by anticipation
marking out a campaign under the walls of Vienna. The English Opposition, at once embittered
by defeat, and stimulated by a new hope of storming the cabinet, carried on a perpetual assault
in the shape of motions for peace. The remnants of Jacobinism in England united their strength
with the populace once more; and, taking advantage of the continental defeats, of the general
timidity of our allies, and of the apparent hopelessness of all success against an enemy who
grew stronger every day, made desperate efforts to reduce the government to the humiliation
of a forced treaty of peace.

The necessity for raising eighteen millions, followed by seven millions and a half more, increased
the public discontent; and, although the solid strength of England was still untouched, and
the real opinion of the country was totally opposed to their rash demands for peace, there
can be no question, that the louder voice of the multitude seemed to carry the day. A bad harvest
also had increased the public difficulties; and, as if every thing was to be unfortunate at
this moment, Admiral Christian's expedition--one of the largest which had ever left an English
port, and which was prepared to sweep the French out of the West Indies--sailing in December,
encountered such a succession of gales in the chops of the Channel that a great part of this
noble armament was lost, and the admiral reached the West Indies with the survivors, only to
see them perish by the dreadful maladies of the climate.

But, to complete the general disastrous aspect of affairs, a new phenomenon suddenly blazed
over Europe. The year 1796 first saw Napoleon Buonaparte at the head of an army. Passing the
Alps on the 9th of April, he fell with such skill and vigour on the Austrian and Italian troops,
that in his first campaign he destroyed five successive Austrian armies; broke up the alliances
of that cluster of feeble and contemptible sovereignties which had so long disgraced Italy
in the eyes of Europe; trampled on their effeminate and debauched population, with the sternness
of an executioner rather than the force of a conqueror; and after sending the plunder of their
palaces to Paris, in the spirit and with the pomp of the old Roman triumphs, dragged their
princes after him to swell his own triumphal progress through Italy.

The war now engrossed every feeling of the nation; and England showed her national spirit in
her gallant defiance of the threat of invasion. The whole kingdom was ready to rise in arms
on the firing of the first beacon;--men of the highest rank headed their tenantry; men even
of those grave and important avocations and offices, which might seem to imply a complete exemption
from arms, put themselves at the head of corps in every part of the empire; and England showed
her prime minister as Colonel Pitt of the Walmer volunteers, and the speaker of her House of
Commons, as Captain Addington of the Woodley cavalry.

But a brilliant change was at hand. In September, Addington received the following note from
Pitt, enclosing the bulletin of the battle of the Nile:--

     "I have just time to send you the enclosed Bulletin (vive la
     Marine Anglaise,) and to tell you, that we mean, (out of
     precaution) the meeting of Parliament for the 6th of November.

     "Sir, ever yours, W. P."

The bulletin which gave value to this note, belongs to history, and gives to history one of
the noblest events of our naval annals. It exhibits a singular contrast to the present rapidity
of communication, that even the "rumour" of Nelson's immortal victory did not reach until fifty-seven
days after the event. The Gazette could not be published until the 2d of October.

But the star of Pitt, which had hitherto shone with increasing brightness from year to year,
and which had passed through all the clouds of time uneclipsed, was now to wane. The Irish
attempt to establish a separate Regency, the Irish Rebellion, and the growing influence of
the Popish party, combined with Liberalism in the Irish legislature, had determined Pitt to
unite the parliaments of the two kingdoms. For this purpose, he made overtures to the Popish
party, whose influence he most dreaded in the Irish House; and, in a species of "understanding"
rather than a distinct compact, he proposed to the Popish body the measure which has been subsequently
called "Emancipation," with some general intimation of pensioning their priesthood.

The Union was carried; and Lord Castlereagh, who had conducted it in Ireland, was appointed
to bring the Popish proposition forward. It had been a subject of deliberation in the cabinet
for nearly six months before they mentioned it to the king. His Majesty virtually pronounced
it irreconcilable to his conscience; and, after having received the opinion of Lord Kenyon,
the chief-justice, in complete confirmation of his own, he sent for the speaker. Pitt had written,
in the meantime, to the king, that he must carry the measure or resign. The king then proposed
that Addington should take the conduct of the government. On his entreating to decline the
proposal, the king said emphatically "Put your hand upon your heart, and ask yourself where
I am to turn for support, if you do not stand by me?" Addington then honourably attempted once
more to induce Pitt to be reconciled to the king's desire, who replied, as to Addington's taking
the cabinet, "I see nothing but ruin if you hesitate." A letter from the king to Pitt still
left an opening for his return, but his answer was still inflexible; and, on the 5th of January,
1801, the correspondence was concluded by the royal announcement that "a new arrangement would
be made without delay."

The determination of George III. was personal and purely conscientious. An anecdote is given
by General Garth strikingly in accordance with this opinion. The General, who was one of the
royal equerries, was riding out with the king one day at this time, when his Majesty said to
him, "I have not had any sleep this night, and am very bilious and unwell;" he added, "that
it was in consequence of Mr Pitt's applying to him on the subject of Catholic Emancipation."

On his arrival at Kew, he desired Garth to read the Coronation Oath, and then followed the
exclamation,--"Where is that power on earth to absolve me from the due observance of every
sentence of that oath, particularly the one requiring me to maintain the Protestant religion?
Was not my family seated on the throne for that express purpose? And shall I be the first to
suffer it to be undermined, perhaps overturned? No. I had rather beg my bread from door to
door throughout Europe, than consent to any such measure."

This was the language of an honest man, and it was also the language of a wise one. What has
the introduction of Papists into parliament occasioned to England, but political confusion?
What benefit has it produced to Ireland? No country in the wildest portion of the earth has
exhibited a more lamentable picture of insubordination, dissension, and public misery. The
peasantry gradually sinking into the most abject poverty; the gentry living on loans; the laws
set at defiance; the demand for rents answered by assassination; a fierce faction existing
in the bowels of the land, as if for the express purpose of inflaming every passion of an ignorant
people into frenzy, and deepening every visitation of nature into national ruin. At this moment,
England is paying for the daily food of two millions of people; employing seven hundred thousand
labourers, simply to keep them alive; and burthening the most heavily-taxed industry in the
world with millions of pounds more, for the sole object of rescuing Ireland from the last extremities
of famine.

We take our leave of this most distressing subject, by the obvious remark, that Pitt and the
politicians, in treating popery as a political object, have all alike overlooked the true nature
of the question. Popery is a religion, and if that religion be false, no crime can be greater
in the sight of Heaven, nor more sure to bring evil on man, than to give it any assistance
in its temptations, progress, or power, by any means whatever. To propagate a false religion
is to declare war against the Divine will, and in that warfare suffering must follow. But what
Protestant can have a doubt upon the subject? England may regard herself as signally fortunate,
if the just penalty of her weakness is already paid.

Mr Addington's Ministry began auspiciously, with the peace of Amiens. The world was weary of
war. France had just learned the power of the British army, by the capture of her army in Egypt;
she was without a ship on the seas; Napoleon was desirous of consolidating his power, and ascending
a throne; and thus, all interests coinciding, peace was proclaimed.

Lord Sidmouth's life from this period was connected with the highest transactions of the state,
until 1822, when he retired from office, followed by the universal respect of the country,
and bearing with him into his retirement a conscience as void of offence, as perhaps ever belonged
to any Minister of England.

Then followed a period, which might have been regarded as, even here, the fitting reward of
such a life. Prom 1822 to 1844, he lived in the enjoyment of health, and that honour, and those
troops of friends, which are the noblest human evidence of a well-spent existence.

Old age came on him at last, but with singular gentleness. Some of his maxims exhibit the mild
philosophy of his temperament. "In youth," said he, "the absence of pleasure is pain, in age
the absence of pain is pleasure." He characteristically observed, "At my age, it strikes me
very much, what little proportion there is between man's ambition, and the shortness of his
life." Of the wars during his time he said, "I used to think all the sufferings of war lost
in its glory; I now consider all its glory lost in its sufferings." In allusion to the desponding
tone of some public men, he said, "I have always fought under the standard of hope, and I never
shall desert it." At another time, he expressed the truth, which only the wise man feels--"It
is a very important part of wisdom, to know what to overlook." He repeated a fine expression
of George III, of which he acknowledged the full value,--"Give me the man who judges one human
being with severity, and every other with indulgence."

His religious feelings were such as might be expected from his well-spent life,--pure, benevolent,
and high-toned. Speaking to his family, in his last illness, he said, "Kind, dutiful, affectionate
children, all have been to me; and if I am permitted to attain to that happy state to which
I aspire, and am permitted to look down, how often shall I be with you, my children!"

On the 3d of February, 1844, he was seized with an attack of influenza, which on the 10th became
hopeless; and on the 15th he calmly died, in his 87th year.

We have preferred giving an abstract of the leading portions of this able and amiable man's
ministerial career, to following it minutely through his later public years, as the earlier
were those which decided the character of the whole: and we have also preferred the tracing
the course of the individual, to criticisms on the volumes of his biographer. But the work
deserves much approval, for its general intelligence, the clearness of its arrangement, and
the fulness of its information. It exercises judgment in the spirit of independence, and, expressing
its opinions without severity, exhibits the grave sagacity of a man of sense, the style of
a scholar, and the temper of a divine.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] The Life and Correspondence of the Right Honourable Henry Addington, First Viscount Sidmouth.
By the Honourable GEORGE PELLEW, D.D., Dean of Norwich. 3 vols. J. Murray.

HOW THEY MANAGE MATTERS IN THE MODEL REPUBLIC.

In our last April number--on the appropriate Day of Fools--we laid before our readers a few
stray flowers of speech, culled with little labour in that rich garden of oratorical delight--the
Congress of the United States. Sweets to the sweet!--We confess that we designed that salutary
exposure less for the benefit of our readers and subscribers in the Old World, than of those
who are our readers, but not our subscribers, in the New. For, in the absence of an international
copyright law, Maga is extensively pirated in the United States, extensively read, and we fear
very imperfectly digested. This arrangement appears to us to work badly for all the parties
concerned. It robs the British publisher, and impoverishes the native author. As to the American
public, if our precepts had exercised any influence upon their practice, they would have learned
long ago that ill-gotten goods never prosper, and that they who make booty of other men's wits,
are not excepted from the general condemnation of wrong-doers. Some day, perhaps, they will
consent to profit by what they prig, and thus, like the fat knight, turn their diseases to
commodity--the national disease of appropriation to the commodity of self-knowledge and self-rebuke.

An American journalist, however, has put the matter in quite a new light, so far as we are
concerned. Lord Demus, it appears, like other despots, is a hard master, and exacts from his
most oppressed slaves a tribute of constant adulation. We, too, are invited to applaud his
felonious favours, and assured that the honour and glory of being read by him on his own free
and easy terms, is enough for the like of us.

"So long," says the editor of the New York Gazette and Times "as our National Legislature refuses
to give the Republic an International Copyright Law, so that American periodicals of a higher
class may be supported among us, the English reviews will do the thinking of our people upon
a great variety of subjects. They make no money, indeed, directly, by their circulation here;
but their conductors cannot but feel the importance, and value the influence of having the
whole American literary area to themselves. Blackwood, whose circulation on this side of the
Atlantic is, on account of its cheapness, double perhaps that which it can claim in the British
islands, is more and more turning its attention to American subjects, which it handles generally
with its wonted humorous point, and witty spitefulness."

