The murderer reloaded his pistol after cleansing the lock and barrel from the appearances of
late explosion, and rode calmly after the litter, satisfying himself that he had so adroitly
removed a troublesome witness to many of his intrigues, and the bearer of mandates which he
had no intentions to obey, and which, therefore, he was desirous it should be thought had never
reached his hand.

The remainder of the journey was made with a degree of speed which showed the little care they
had for the health of the unhappy Countess. They paused only at places where all was under
their command, and where the tale they were prepared to tell of the insane Lady Varney would
have obtained ready credit had she made an attempt to appeal to the compassion of the few persons
admitted to see her. But Amy saw no chance of obtaining a hearing from any to whom she had
an opportunity of addressing herself; and besides, was too terrified for the presence of Varney
to violate the implied condition under which she was to travel free from his company. The authority
of Varney, often so used during the Earl's private journeys to Cumnor, readily procured relays
of horses where wanted, so that they approached Cumnor Place upon the night after they left
Kenilworth.

At this period of the journey Varney came up to the rear of the litter, as he had done before
repeatedly during their progress, and asked, "How does she?"

"She sleeps," said Foster. "I would we were home--her strength is exhausted."

"Rest will restore her," answered Varney. "She shall soon sleep sound and long. We must consider
how to lodge her in safety."

"In her own apartments, to be sure," said Foster. "I have sent Janet to her aunt's with a proper
rebuke, and the old women are truth itself--for they hate this lady cordially."

"We will not trust them, however, friend Anthony," said Varney; "We must secure her in that
stronghold where you keep your gold."

"My gold!" said Anthony, much alarmed; "why, what gold have I? God help me, I have no gold--I
would I had!"

"Now, marry hang thee, thou stupid brute, who thinks of or cares for thy gold? If I did, could
I not find an hundred better ways to come at it? In one word, thy bedchamber, which thou hast
fenced so curiously, must be her place of seclusion; and thou, thou hind, shalt press her pillows
of down. I dare to say the Earl will never ask after the rich furniture of these four rooms."

This last consideration rendered Foster tractable; he only asked permission to ride before,
to make matters ready, and spurring his horse, he posted before the litter, while Varney falling
about threescore paces behind it, it remained only attended by Tider.

When they had arrived at Cumnor Place, the Countess asked eagerly for Janet, and showed much
alarm when informed that she was no longer to have the attendance of that amiable girl.

"My daughter is dear to me, madam," said Foster gruffly; "and I desire not that she should
get the court-tricks of lying and 'scaping--somewhat too much of that has she learned already,
an it please your ladyship."

The Countess, much fatigued and greatly terrified by the circumstances of her journey, made
no answer to this insolence, but mildly expressed a wish to retire to her chamber.

"Ay, ay," muttered Foster, "'tis but reasonable; but, under favour, you go not to your gew-gaw
toy-house yonder--you will sleep to-night in better security."

"I would it were in my grave," said the Countess; "but that mortal feelings shiver at the idea
of soul and body parting."

"You, I guess, have no chance to shiver at that," replied Foster. "My lord comes hither to-morrow,
and doubtless you will make your own ways good with him."

"But does he come hither?--does he indeed, good Foster?"

"Oh, ay, good Foster!" replied the other. "But what Foster shall I be to-morrow when you speak
of me to my lord--though all I have done was to obey his own orders?"

"You shall be my protector--a rough one indeed--but still a protector," answered the Countess.
"Oh that Janet were but here!"

"She is better where she is," answered Foster--"one of you is enough to perplex a plain head.
But will you taste any refreshment?"

"Oh no, no--my chamber--my chamber! I trust," she said apprehensively, "I may secure it on
the inside?"

"With all my heart," answered Foster, "so I may secure it on the outside;" and taking a light,
he led the way to a part of the building where Amy had never been, and conducted her up a stair
of great height, preceded by one of the old women with a lamp. At the head of the stair, which
seemed of almost immeasurable height, they crossed a short wooden gallery, formed of black
oak, and very narrow, at the farther end of which was a strong oaken door, which opened and
admitted them into the miser's apartment, homely in its accommodations in the very last degree,
and, except in name, little different from a prison-room.

Foster stopped at the door, and gave the lamp to the Countess, without either offering or permitting
the attendance of the old woman who had carried it. The lady stood not on ceremony, but taking
it hastily, barred the door, and secured it with the ample means provided on the inside for
that purpose.

Varney, meanwhile, had lurked behind on the stairs; but hearing the door barred, he now came
up on tiptoe, and Foster, winking to him, pointed with self-complacence to a piece of concealed
machinery in the wall, which, playing with much ease and little noise, dropped a part of the
wooden gallery, after the manner of a drawbridge, so as to cut off all communication between
the door of the bedroom, which he usually inhabited, and the landing-place of the high, winding
stair which ascended to it. The rope by which this machinery was wrought was generally carried
within the bedchamber, it being Foster's object to provide against invasion from without; but
now that it was intended to secure the prisoner within, the cord had been brought over to the
landing-place, and was there made fast, when Foster with much complacency had dropped the unsuspected
trap-door.

Varney looked with great attention at the machinery, and peeped more than once down the abyss
which was opened by the fall of the trap-door. It was dark as pitch, and seemed profoundly
deep, going, as Foster informed his confederate in a whisper, nigh to the lowest vault of the
Castle. Varney cast once more a fixed and long look down into this sable gulf, and then followed
Foster to the part of the manor-house most usually inhabited.

When they arrived in the parlour which we have mentioned, Varney requested Foster to get them
supper, and some of the choicest wine. "I will seek Alasco," he added; "we have work for him
to do, and we must put him in good heart."

Foster groaned at this intimation, but made no remonstrance. The old woman assured Varney that
Alasco had scarce eaten or drunken since her master's departure, living perpetually shut up
in the laboratory, and talking as if the world's continuance depended on what he was doing there.

"I will teach him that the world hath other claims on him," said Varney, seizing a light, and
going in quest of the alchemist. He returned, after a considerable absence, very pale, but
yet with his habitual sneer on his cheek and nostril. "Our friend," he said, "has exhaled."

"How!--what mean you?" said Foster--"run away--fled with my forty pounds, that should have
been multiplied a thousand-fold? I will have Hue and Cry!"

"I will tell thee a surer way," said Varney.

"How!--which way?" exclaimed Foster; "I will have back my forty pounds--I deemed them as surely
a thousand times multiplied--I will have back my in-put, at the least."

"Go hang thyself, then, and sue Alasco in the Devil's Court of Chancery, for thither he has
carried the cause."

"How!--what dost thou mean is he dead?"

"Ay, truly is he," said Varney; "and properly swollen already in the face and body. He had
been mixing some of his devil's medicines, and the glass mask which he used constantly had
fallen from his face, so that the subtle poison entered the brain, and did its work."

"SANCTA MARIA!" said Foster--"I mean, God in His mercy preserve us from covetousness and deadly
sin!--Had he not had projection, think you? Saw you no ingots in the crucibles?"

"Nay, I looked not but at the dead carrion," answered Varney; "an ugly spectacle--he was swollen
like a corpse three days exposed on the wheel. Pah! give me a cup of wine."

"I will go," said Foster, "I will examine myself--" He took the lamp, and hastened to the door,
but there hesitated and paused. "Will you not go with me?" said he to Varney.

"To what purpose?" said Varney; "I have seen and smelled enough to spoil my appetite. I broke
the window, however, and let in the air; it reeked of sulphur, and such like suffocating steams,
as if the very devil had been there."

"And might it not be the act of the demon himself?" said Foster, still hesitating; "I have
heard he is powerful at such times, and with such people."

"Still, if it were that Satan of thine," answered Varney, "who thus jades thy imagination,
thou art in perfect safety, unless he is a most unconscionable devil indeed. He hath had two
good sops of late."

"How TWO sops--what mean you?" said Foster--"what mean you?"

"You will know in time," said Varney;--"and then this other banquet--but thou wilt esteem Her
too choice a morsel for the fiend's tooth--she must have her psalms, and harps, and seraphs."

Anthony Foster heard, and came slowly back to the table. "God! Sir Richard, and must that then
be done?"

"Ay, in very truth, Anthony, or there comes no copyhold in thy way," replied his inflexible
associate.

"I always foresaw it would land there!" said Foster. "But how, Sir Richard, how?--for not to
win the world would I put hands on her."

"I cannot blame thee," said Varney; "I should be reluctant to do that myself. We miss Alasco
and his manna sorely--ay, and the dog Lambourne."

"Why, where tarries Lambourne?" said Anthony.

"Ask no questions," said Varney, "thou wilt see him one day if thy creed is true. But to our
graver matter. I will teach thee a spring, Tony, to catch a pewit. Yonder trap-door--yonder
gimcrack of thine, will remain secure in appearance, will it not, though the supports are withdrawn
beneath?"

"Ay, marry, will it," said Foster; "so long as it is not trodden on."

"But were the lady to attempt an escape over it," replied Varney, "her weight would carry it down?"

"A mouse's weight would do it," said Foster.

"Why, then, she dies in attempting her escape, and what could you or I help it, honest Tony?
Let us to bed, we will adjust our project to-morrow."

On the next day, when evening approached, Varney summoned Foster to the execution of their
plan. Tider and Foster's old man-servant were sent on a feigned errand down to the village,
and Anthony himself, as if anxious to see that the Countess suffered no want of accommodation,
visited her place of confinement. He was so much staggered at the mildness and patience with
which she seemed to endure her confinement, that he could not help earnestly recommending to
her not to cross the threshold of her room on any account whatever, until Lord Leicester should
come, "which," he added, "I trust in God, will be very soon." Amy patiently promised that she
would resign herself to her fate, and Foster returned to his hardened companion with his conscience
half-eased of the perilous load that weighed on it. "I have warned her," he said; "surely in
vain is the snare set in the sight of any bird!"

He left, therefore, the Countess's door unsecured on the outside, and, under the eye of Varney,
withdrew the supports which sustained the falling trap, which, therefore, kept its level position
merely by a slight adhesion. They withdrew to wait the issue on the ground-floor adjoining;
but they waited long in vain. At length Varney, after walking long to and fro, with his face
muffled in his cloak, threw it suddenly back and exclaimed, "Surely never was a woman fool
enough to neglect so fair an opportunity of escape!"

"Perhaps she is resolved," said Foster, "to await her husband's return."

"True!--most true!" said Varney, rushing out; "I had not thought of that before."

In less than two minutes, Foster, who remained behind, heard the tread of a horse in the courtyard,
and then a whistle similar to that which was the Earl's usual signal. The instant after the
door of the Countess's chamber opened, and in the same moment the trap-door gave way. There
was a rushing sound--a heavy fall--a faint groan--and all was over.

At the same instant, Varney called in at the window, in an accent and tone which was an indescribable
mixture betwixt horror and raillery, "Is the bird caught?--is the deed done?"

"O God, forgive us!" replied Anthony Foster.

"Why, thou fool," said Varney, "thy toil is ended, and thy reward secure. Look down into the
vault--what seest thou?"

"I see only a heap of white clothes, like a snowdrift," said Foster. "O God, she moves her arm!"

"Hurl something down on her--thy gold chest, Tony--it is an heavy one."

"Varney, thou art an incarnate fiend!" replied Foster.

"There needs nothing more--she is gone!"

"So pass our troubles," said Varney, entering the room; "I dreamed not I could have mimicked
the Earl's call so well."

"Oh, if there be judgment in heaven, thou hast deserved it," said Foster, "and wilt meet it!
Thou hast destroyed her by means of her best affections--it is a seething of the kid in the
mother's milk!"

"Thou art a fanatical ass," replied Varney; "let us now think how the alarm should be given--the
body is to remain where it is."

But their wickedness was to be permitted no longer; for even while they were at this consultation,
Tressilian and Raleigh broke in upon them, having obtained admittance by means of Tider and
Foster's servant, whom they had secured at the village.

Anthony Foster fled on their entrance, and knowing each corner and pass of the intricate old
house, escaped all search. But Varney was taken on the spot; and instead of expressing compunction
for what he had done, seemed to take a fiendish pleasure in pointing out to them the remains
of the murdered Countess, while at the same time he defied them to show that he had any share
in her death. The despairing grief of Tressilian, on viewing the mangled and yet warm remains
of what had lately been so lovely and so beloved, was such that Raleigh was compelled to have
him removed from the place by force, while he himself assumed the direction of what was to be done.

Varney, upon a second examination, made very little mystery either of the crime or of its motives---alleging,
as a reason for his frankness, that though much of what he confessed could only have attached
to him by suspicion, yet such suspicion would have been sufficient to deprive him of Leicester's
confidence, and to destroy all his towering plans of ambition. "I was not born," he said, "to
drag on the remainder of life a degraded outcast; nor will I so die that my fate shall make
a holiday to the vulgar herd."

From these words it was apprehended he had some design upon himself, and he was carefully deprived
of all means by which such could be carried into execution. But like some of the heroes of
antiquity, he carried about his person a small quantity of strong poison, prepared probably
by the celebrated Demetrius Alasco. Having swallowed this potion over-night, he was found next
morning dead in his cell; nor did he appear to have suffered much agony, his countenance presenting,
even in death, the habitual expression of sneering sarcasm which was predominant while he lived.
"The wicked man," saith Scripture, "hath no bands in his death."

The fate of his colleague in wickedness was long unknown. Cumnor Place was deserted immediately
after the murder; for in the vicinity of what was called the Lady Dudley's Chamber, the domestics
pretended to hear groans, and screams, and other supernatural noises. After a certain length
of time, Janet, hearing no tidings of her father, became the uncontrolled mistress of his property,
and conferred it with her hand upon Wayland, now a man of settled character, and holding a
place in Elizabeth's household. But it was after they had been both dead for some years that
their eldest son and heir, in making some researches about Cumnor Hall, discovered a secret
passage, closed by an iron door, which, opening from behind the bed in the Lady Dudley's Chamber,
descended to a sort of cell, in which they found an iron chest containing a quantity of gold,
and a human skeleton stretched above it. The fate of Anthony Foster was now manifest. He had
fled to this place of concealment, forgetting the key of the spring-lock; and being barred
from escape by the means he had used for preservation of that gold, for which he had sold his
salvation, he had there perished miserably. Unquestionably the groans and screams heard by
the domestics were not entirely imaginary, but were those of this wretch, who, in his agony,
was crying for relief and succour.

The news of the Countess's dreadful fate put a sudden period to the pleasures of Kenilworth.
Leicester retired from court, and for a considerable time abandoned himself to his remorse.
But as Varney in his last declaration had been studious to spare the character of his patron,
the Earl was the object rather of compassion than resentment. The Queen at length recalled
him to court; he was once more distinguished as a statesman and favourite; and the rest of
his career is well known to history. But there was something retributive in his death, if,
according to an account very generally received, it took place from his swallowing a draught
of poison which was designed by him for another person. [See Note 9. Death of the Earl of Leicester.]

Sir Hugh Robsart died very soon after his daughter, having settled his estate on Tressilian.
But neither the prospect of rural independence, nor the promises of favour which Elizabeth
held out to induce him to follow the court, could remove his profound melancholy. Wherever
he went he seemed to see before him the disfigured corpse of the early and only object of his
affection. At length, having made provision for the maintenance of the old friends and old
servants who formed Sir Hugh's family at Lidcote Hall, he himself embarked with his friend
Raleigh for the Virginia expedition, and, young in years but old in grief, died before his
day in that foreign land.

Of inferior persons it is only necessary to say that Blount's wit grew brighter as his yellow
roses faded; that, doing his part as a brave commander in the wars, he was much more in his
element than during the short period of his following the court; and that Flibbertigibbet's
acute genius raised him to favour and distinction in the employment both of Burleigh and Walsingham.

NOTES.

Note 1. Ch. III.--FOSTER, LAMBOURNE, AND THE BLACK BEAR.

If faith is to be put in epitaphs, Anthony Foster was something the very reverse of the character
represented in the novel. Ashmole gives this description of his tomb. I copy from the ANTIQUITIES
OF BERKSHIRE, vol.i., p.143.

"In the north wall of the chancel at Cumnor church is a monument of grey marble, whereon, in
brass plates, are engraved a man in armour, and his wife in the habit of her times, both kneeling
before a fald-stoole, together with the figures of three sons kneeling behind their mother.
Under the figure of the man is this inscription:--

     "ANTONIUS FORSTER, generis generosa propago,
     Cumnerae Dominus, Bercheriensis erat.
     Armiger, Armigero prognatus patre Ricardo,
     Qui quondam Iphlethae Salopiensis erat.
     Quatuor ex isto fluxerunt stemmate nati,
     Ex isto Antonius stemmate quartus erat.
     Mente sagax, animo precellens, corpore promptus,
     Eloquii dulcis, ore disertus erat.
     In factis probitas; fuit in sermone venustas,
     In vultu gravitas, relligione fides,
     In patriam pietas, in egenos grata voluntas,
     Accedunt reliquis annumeranda bonis.
     Si quod cuncta rapit, rapuit non omnia Lethum,
     Si quod Mors rapuit, vivida fama dedit.

"These verses following are writ at length, two by two, in praise of him:--

     "Argute resonas Cithare pretendere chordas
     Novit, et Aonia concrepuisse Lyra.
     Gaudebat terre teneras defigere plantas;
     Et mira pulchras construere arte domos
     Composita varias lingua formare loquelas
     Doctus, et edocta scribere multa manu."

The arms over it thus:--

Quart. I. 3 HUNTER'S HORNS stringed.

II. 3 PINIONS with their points upwards.

"The crest is a STAG couchant, vulnerated through the neck by a broad arrow; on his side is
a MARTLETT for a difference."

From this monumental inscription it appears that Anthony Foster, instead of being a vulgar,
low-bred, puritanical churl, was, in fact, a gentleman of birth and consideration, distinguished
for his skill in the arts of music and horticulture, as also in languages. In so far, therefore,
the Anthony Foster of the romance has nothing but the name in common with the real individual.
But notwithstanding the charity, benevolence, and religious faith imputed by the monument of
grey marble to its tenant, tradition, as well as secret history, names him as the active agent
in the death of the Countess; and it is added that, from being a jovial and convivial gallant,
as we may infer from some expressions in the epitaph, he sunk, after the fatal deed, into a
man of gloomy and retired habits, whose looks and manners indicated that he suffered under
the pressure of some atrocious secret.

The name of Lambourne is still known in the vicinity, and it is said some of the clan partake
the habits, as well as name, of the Michael Lambourne of the romance. A man of this name lately
murdered his wife, outdoing Michael in this respect, who only was concerned in the murder of
the wife of another man.

I have only to add that the jolly Black Bear has been restored to his predominance over bowl
and bottle in the village of Cumnor.

Note 2. Ch. XIII.--LEGEND OF WAYLAND SMITH.

The great defeat given by Alfred to the Danish invaders is said by Mr. Gough to have taken
place near Ashdown, in Berkshire. "The burial place of Baereg, the Danish chief, who was slain
in this fight, is distinguished by a parcel of stones, less than a mile from the hill, set
on edge, enclosing a piece of ground somewhat raised. On the east side of the southern extremity
stand three squarish flat stones, of about four or five feet over either way, supporting a
fourth, and now called by the vulgar WAYLAND SMITH, from an idle tradition about an invisible
smith replacing lost horse-shoes there."--GOUGH'S edition of CAMDEN'S BRITANNIA, vol.i., p. 221.

The popular belief still retains memory of this wild legend, which, connected as it is with
the site of a Danish sepulchre, may have arisen from some legend concerning the northern Duergar,
who resided in the rocks, and were cunning workers in steel and iron. It was believed that
Wayland Smith's fee was sixpence, and that, unlike other workmen, he was offended if more was
offered. Of late his offices have been again called to memory; but fiction has in this, as
in other cases, taken the liberty to pillage the stores of oral tradition. This monument must
be very ancient, for it has been kindly pointed out to me that it is referred to in an ancient
Saxon charter as a landmark. The monument has been of late cleared out, and made considerably
more conspicuous.

Note 3. Ch. XIV.--LEICESTER AND SUSSEX.

Naunton gives us numerous and curious particulars of the jealous struggle which took place
between Ratcliffe, Earl of Sussex, and the rising favourite Leicester. The former, when on
his deathbed, predicted to his followers that after his death the gipsy (so he called Leicester,
from his dark complexion) would prove too many for them.

Note 4. Ch. XIV.--SIR WALTER RALEIGH.

Among the attendants and adherents of Sussex, we have ventured to introduce the celebrated
Raleigh, in the dawn of his court favour.

In Aubrey's Correspondence there are some curious particulars of Sir Walter Raleigh. "He was
a tall, handsome, bold man; but his naeve was that he was damnably proud. Old Sir Robert Harley
of Brampton Brian Castle, who knew him, would say it was a great question who was the proudest,
Sir Walter or Sir Thomas Overbury; but the difference that was, was judged in Sir Thomas's
side. In the great parlour at Downton, at Mr. Raleigh's, is a good piece, an original of Sir
Walter, in a white satin doublet, all embroidered with rich pearls, and a mighty rich chain
of great pearls about his neck. The old servants have told me that the real pearls were near
as big as the painted ones. He had a most remarkable aspect, an exceeding high forehead, long-faced,
and sour-eyelidded. A rebus is added to this purpose:--

     The enemy to the stomach, and the word of disgrace,
     Is the name of the gentleman with the bold face.

Sir Walter Raleigh's beard turned up naturally, which gave him an advantage over the gallants
of the time, whose moustaches received a touch of the barber's art to give them the air then
most admired.--See AUBREY'S CORRESPONDENCE, vol.ii., part ii., p.500.

Note 5. Ch. XV.--COURT FAVOUR OF SIR WALTER RALEIGH.

The gallant incident of the cloak is the traditional account of this celebrated statesman's
rise at court. None of Elizabeth's courtiers knew better than he how to make his court to her
personal vanity, or could more justly estimate the quantity of flattery which she could condescend
to swallow. Being confined in the Tower for some offence, and understanding the Queen was about
to pass to Greenwich in her barge, he insisted on approaching the window, that he might see,
at whatever distance, the Queen of his Affections, the most beautiful object which the earth
bore on its surface. The Lieutenant of the Tower (his own particular friend) threw himself
between his prisoner and the window; while Sir Waiter, apparently influenced by a fit of unrestrainable
passion, swore he would not be debarred from seeing his light, his life, his goddess! A scuffle
ensued, got up for effect's sake, in which the Lieutenant and his captive grappled and struggled
with fury, tore each other's hair, and at length drew daggers, and were only separated by force.
The Queen being informed of this scene exhibited by her frantic adorer, it wrought, as was
to be expected, much in favour of the captive Paladin. There is little doubt that his quarrel
with the Lieutenant was entirely contrived for the purpose which it produced.

Note 6. Ch. XVII.--ROBERT LANEHAM.

Little is known of Robert Laneham, save in his curious letter to a friend in London, giving
an account of Queen Elizabeth's entertainments at Kenilworth, written in a style of the most
intolerable affectation, both in point of composition and orthography. He describes himself
as a BON VIVANT, who was wont to be jolly and dry in the morning, and by his good-will would
be chiefly in the company of the ladies. He was, by the interest of Lord Leicester, Clerk of
the Council Chamber door, and also keeper of the same. "When Council sits," says he, "I am
at hand. If any makes a babbling, PEACE, say I. If I see a listener or a pryer in at the chinks
or lockhole, I am presently on the bones of him. If a friend comes, I make him sit down by
me on a form or chest. The rest may walk, a God's name!" There has been seldom a better portrait
of the pragmatic conceit and self-importance of a small man in office.

Note 7. Ch. XVIII.--DR. JULIO.

The Earl of Leicester's Italian physician, Julio, was affirmed by his contemporaries to be
a skilful compounder of poisons, which he applied with such frequency, that the Jesuit Parsons
extols ironically the marvellous good luck of this great favourite in the opportune deaths
of those who stood in the way of his wishes. There is a curious passage on the subject:--

"Long after this, he fell in love with the Lady Sheffield, whom I signified before, and then
also had he the same fortune to have her husband dye quickly, with an extreame rheume in his
head (as it was given out), but as others say, of an artificiall catarre that stopped his breath.

"The like good chance had he in the death of my Lord of Essex (as I have said before), and
that at a time most fortunate for his purpose; for when he was coming home from Ireland, with
intent to revenge himselfe upon my Lord of Leicester for begetting his wife with childe in
his absence (the childe was a daughter, and brought up by the Lady Shandoes, W. Knooles, his
wife), my Lord of Leicester hearing thereof, wanted not a friend or two to accompany the deputy,
as among other a couple of the Earles own servants, Crompton (if I misse not his name), yeoman
of his bottles, and Lloid his secretary, entertained afterward by my Lord of Leicester, and
so he dyed in the way of an extreame flux, caused by an Italian receipe, as all his friends
are well assured, the maker whereof was a chyrurgeon (as it is beleeved) that then was newly
come to my Lord from Italy---a cunning man and sure in operation, with whom, if the good Lady
had been sooner acquainted, and used his help, she should not have needed to sitten so pensive
at home, and fearefull of her husband's former returne out of the same country......Neither
must you marvaile though all these died in divers manners of outward diseases, for this is
the excellency of the Italian art, for which this chyrurgeon and Dr. Julio were entertained
so carefully, who can make a man dye in what manner or show of sickness you will--by whose
instructions, no doubt; but his lordship is now cunning, especially adding also to these the
counsell of his Doctor Bayly, a man also not a little studied (as he seemeth) in his art; for
I heard him once myselfe, in a publique act in Oxford, and that in presence of my Lord of Leicester
(if I be not deceived), maintain that poyson might be so tempered and given as it should not
appear presently, and yet should kill the party afterward, at what time should be appointed;
which argument belike pleased well his lordship, and therefore was chosen to be discussed in
his audience, if I be not deceived of his being that day present. So, though one dye of a flux,
and another of a catarre, yet this importeth little to the matter, but showeth rather the great
cunning and skill of the artificer."--PARSONS' LEICESTER'S COMMONWEALTH, p.23.

It is unnecessary to state the numerous reasons why the Earl is stated in the tale to be rather
the dupe of villains than the unprincipled author of their atrocities. In the latter capacity,
which a part at least of his contemporaries imputed to him, he would have made a character
too disgustingly wicked to be useful for the purposes of fiction.

I have only to add that the union of the poisoner, the quacksalver, the alchemist, and the
astrologer in the same person was familiar to the pretenders to the mystic sciences.

Note 8. Ch. XXXII.--FURNITURE OF KENILWORTH.

In revising this work, I have had the means of making some accurate additions to my attempt
to describe the princely pleasures of Kenilworth, by the kindness of my friend William Hamper,
Esq., who had the goodness to communicate to me an inventory of the furniture of Kenilworth
in the days of the magnificent Earl of Leicester. I have adorned the text with some of the
splendid articles mentioned in the inventory, but antiquaries especially will be desirous to
see a more full specimen than the story leaves room for.

EXTRACTS FROM KENILWORTH INVENTORY, A.D. 1584. A Salte, ship-fashion, of the mother of perle,
garnished with silver and divers workes, warlike ensignes, and ornaments, with xvj peeces of
ordinance whereof ij on wheles, two anckers on the foreparte, and on the stearne the image
of Dame Fortune standing on a globe with a flag in her hand. Pois xxxij oz.

A gilte salte like a swann, mother of perle. Pois xxx oz. iij quarters.

A George on horseback, of wood, painted and gilt, with a case for knives in the tayle of the
horse, and a case for oyster knives in the brest of the Dragon.

A green barge-cloth, embrother'd with white lions and beares.

A perfuming pann, of silver. Pois xix oz.

In the halle. Tabells, long and short, vj. Formes, long and short, xiiij.

HANGINGS. (These are minutely specified, and consisted of the following subjects, in tapestry,
and gilt, and red leather.)

Flowers, beasts, and pillars arched. Forest worke. Historie. Storie of Susanna, the Prodigall
Childe, Saule, Tobie, Hercules, Lady Fame, Hawking and Hunting, Jezabell, Judith and Holofernes,
David, Abraham, Sampson, Hippolitus, Alexander the Great, Naaman the Assyrian, Jacob, etc.

BEDSTEADS, WITH THEIR FURNITURE. (These are magnificent and numerous. I shall copy VERBATIM
the description of what appears to have been one of the best.)

A bedsted of wallnut-tree, toppe fashion, the pillers redd and varnished, the ceelor, tester,
and single vallance of crimson sattin, paned with a broad border of bone lace of golde and
silver. The tester richlie embrothered with my Lo. armes in a garland of hoppes, roses, and
pomegranetts, and lyned with buckerom. Fyve curteins of crimson sattin to the same bedsted,
striped downe with a bone lace of gold and silver, garnished with buttons and loops of crimson
silk and golde, containing xiiij bredths of sattin, and one yarde iij quarters deepe. The ceelor,
vallance, and curteins lyned with crymson taffata sarsenet.

A crymson sattin counterpointe, quilted and embr. with a golde twiste, and lyned with redd
sarsenet, being in length iij yards good, and in breadth iij scant.

A chaise of crymson sattin, suteable.

A fayre quilte of crymson sattin, vj breadths, iij yardes 3 quarters naile deepe, all lozenged
over with silver twiste, in the midst a cinquefoile within a garland of ragged staves, fringed
rounde aboute with a small fringe of crymson silke, lyned throughe with white fustian.

Fyve plumes of coolered feathers, garnished with bone lace and spangells of goulde and silver,
standing in cups knitt all over with goulde, silver, and crymson silk. [Probably on the centre
and four corners of the bedstead. Four bears and ragged staves occupied a similar position
on another of these sumptuous pieces of furniture.]

A carpett for a cupboarde of crymson sattin, embrothered with a border of goulde twiste, about
iij parts of it fringed with silk and goulde, lyned with bridges [That is, Bruges.] sattin,
in length ij yards, and ij bredths of sattin.

(There were eleven down beds and ninety feather beds, besides thirty-seven mattresses.)

CHYRES, STOOLES, AND CUSHENS. (These were equally splendid with the beds, etc. I shall here
copy that which stands at the head of the list.)

A chaier of crimson velvet, the seate and backe partlie embrothered, with R. L. in cloth of
goulde, the beare and ragged staffe in clothe of silver, garnished with lace and fringe of
goulde, silver, and crimson silck. The frame covered with velvet, bounde aboute the edge with
goulde lace, and studded with gilte nailes.

A square stoole and a foote stoole, of crimson velvet, fringed and garnished suteable.

A long cushen of crimson velvet, embr. with the ragged staffe in a wreathe of goulde, with
my Lo. posie "DROYTE ET LOYALL" written in the same, and the letters R. L. in clothe of goulde,
being garnished with lace, fringe, buttons, and tassels of gold, silver, and crimson silck,
lyned with crimson taff., being in length 1 yard quarter.

A square cushen, of the like velvet, embr. suteable to the long cushen.

CARPETS. (There were 10 velvet carpets for tables and windows, 49 Turkey carpets for floors,
and 32 cloth carpets. One of each I will now specify.)

A carpett of crimson velvet, richlie embr. with my Lo. posie, beares and ragged staves, etc.,
of clothe of goulde and silver, garnished upon the seames and aboute with golde lace, fringed
accordinglie, lyned with crimson taffata sarsenett, being 3 breadths of velvet, one yard 3
quarters long.

A great Turquoy carpett, the grounde blew, with a list of yelloe at each end, being in length
x yards, in bredthe iiij yards and quarter

A long carpett of blew clothe, lyned with bridges sattin, fringed with blew silck and goulde,
in length vj yards lack a quarter, the whole bredth of the clothe.

PICTURES. (Chiefly described as having curtains.)

The Queene's Majestie (2 great tables). 3 of my Lord. St. Jerome. Lo. of Arundell. Lord Mathevers.
Lord of Pembroke. Counte Egmondt. The Queene of Scotts. King Philip. The Baker's Daughters.
The Duke of Feria. Alexander Magnus. Two Yonge Ladies. Pompaea Sabina. Fred. D. of Saxony.
Emp. Charles. K. Philip's Wife. Prince of Orange and his Wife. Marq. of Berges and his Wife.
Counte de Home. Count Holstrate. Monsr. Brederode. Duke Alva. Cardinal Grandville. Duches of
Parma. Henrie E. of Pembrooke and his young Countess. Countis of Essex. Occacion and Repentance.
Lord Mowntacute. Sir Jas. Crofts. Sir Wr. Mildmay. Sr. Wm. Pickering. Edwin Abp. of York.

A tabell of an historie of men, women, and children, moulden in wax.

A little foulding table of ebanie, garnished with white bone, wherein are written verses with
lres. of goulde.

A table of my Lord's armes.

Fyve of the plannetts, painted in frames.

Twentie-three cardes, [That is charts.] or maps of countries.

INSTRUMENTS. (I shall give two specimens.)

An instrument of organs, regall, and virginalls, covered with crimson velvet, and garnished
with goulde lace.

A fair pair of double virginalls.

CABONETTS. A cabonett of crimson sattin, richlie embr. with a device of hunting the stagg,
in goulde, silver, and silck, with iiij glasses in the topp thereof, xvj cupps of flowers made
of goulde, silver, and silck, in a case of leather, lyned with greene sattin of bridges.

(Another of purple velvet. A desk of red leather.)

A CHESS BOARDE of ebanie, with checkars of christall and other stones, layed with silver, garnished
with beares and ragged staves, and cinquefoiles of silver. The xxxij men likewyse of christall
and other stones sett, the one sort in silver white, the other gilte, in a case gilded and
lyned with green cotton.

(Another of bone and ebanie. A pair of tabells of bone.)

A great BRASON CANDLESTICK to hang in the roofe of the howse, verie fayer and curiouslye wrought,
with xxiiij branches, xij greate and xij of lesser size, 6 rowlers and ij wings for the spreade
eagle, xxiiij socketts for candells, xij greater and xij of a lesser sorte, xxiiij sawcers,
or candlecups, of like proporcion to put under the socketts, iij images of men and iij of weomen,
of brass, verie finely and artificiallie done.

These specimens of Leicester's magnificence may serve to assure the reader that it scarce lay
in the power of a modern author to exaggerate the lavish style of expense displayed in the
princely pleasures of Kenilworth.

Note to Ch. XLI.--DEATH OF THE EARL OF LEICESTER.

In a curious manuscript copy of the information given by Ben Jonson to Drummond of Hawthornden,
as transcribed by Sir Robert Sibbald, Leicester's death is ascribed to poison administered
as a cordial by his countess, to whom he had given it, representing it to be a restorative
in any faintness, in the hope that she herself might be cut off by using it. We have already
quoted Jonson's account of this merited stroke of retribution in a note of the Introduction
to this volume. It may be here added that the following satirical epitaph on Leicester occurs
in Drummond's Collection, but is evidently not of his composition:--

     EPITAPH ON THE ERLE OF LEISTER.

     Here lies a valiant warriour,
     Who never drew a sword;
     Here lies a noble courtier,
     Who never kept his word;
     Here lies the Erle of Leister,
     Who governed the Estates,
     Whom the earth could never living love,
     And the just Heaven now hates.