CONTENTS

I. GHOST STORIES FROM LITERARY SOURCES

                                                                 PAGE

 1. THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER                                 17

 2. THE OLD NURSE'S STORY                                          40

 3. THE SUPERSTITIOUS MAN'S STORY                                  54

 4. A STORY OF RAVENNA                                             58

 5. TEIG O'KANE AND THE CORPSE                                     67

 6. THE HAUNTED AND THE HAUNTERS: OR THE HOUSE AND THE BRAIN       83

 7. THE BOTATHEN GHOST                                            128

 8. THE GHOST OF LORD CLARENCEUX                                  138

 9. DR DUTHOIT'S VISION                                           143

10. THE SEVEN LIGHTS                                              147

11. THE SPECTRAL COACH OF BLACKADON                               160

12. DRAKE'S DRUM                                                  169

13. THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM                                        171

14. THE POOL IN THE GRAVEYARD                                     179

15. THE LIANHAN SHEE                                              181

16. THE HAUNTED COVE                                              216

17. WANDERING WILLIE'S TALE                                       225

II. GHOST STORIES FROM LOCAL RECORDS, FOLK LORE, AND LEGEND

                                                                 PAGE

18. GLAMIS CASTLE                                                 249

19. POWYS CASTLE                                                  253

20. CROGLIN GRANGE                                                259

21. THE GHOST OF MAJOR SYDENHAM                                   264

22. THE MIRACULOUS CASE OF JESCH CLAES                            268

23. THE RADIANT BOY OF CORBY CASTLE                               270

24. CLERK SAUNDERS                                                274

25. DOROTHY DURANT                                                280

26. PEARLIN JEAN                                                  284

27. THE DENTON HALL GHOST                                         287

28. THE GOODWOOD GHOST STORY                                      293

29. CAPTAIN WHEATCROFT                                            300

30. THE IRON CAGE                                                 303

31. THE GHOST OF ROSEWARNE                                        310

32. THE IRON CHEST OF DURLEY                                      317

33. THE STRANGE CASE OF M. BEZUEL                                 320

34. THE MARQUIS DE RAMBOUILLET                                    326

35. THE ALTHEIM REVENANT                                          329

36. SERTORIUS AND HIS HIND                                        331

37. ERICHTHO                                                      334

III. OMENS AND PHANTASMS

                                                                 PAGE

38. PATROKLOS                                                    343

39. VISION OF CROMWELL                                           345

40. LORD STRAFFORD'S WARNING                                     346

41. KOTTER'S RED CIRCLE                                          348

42. THE VISION OF CHARLES XI. OF SWEDEN                          350

43. BEN JONSON'S PREVISION                                       359

44. QUEEN ULRICA                                                 360

45. DENIS MISANGER                                               362

46. THE PIED PIPER                                               365

47. JEANNE D'ARC                                                 367

48. ANNE WALKER                                                  368

49. THE HAND OF GLORY                                            371

50. THE BLOODY FOOTSTEP                                          375

51. THE GHOSTLY WARRIORS OF WORMS                                378

52. THE WANDERING JEW IN ENGLAND                                 379

53. BENDITH EU MAMMAU                                            382

54. THE RED BOOK OF APPIN                                        385

55. THE GOOD O'DONOGHUE                                          387

56. SARAH POLGRAIN                                               390

57. ELEANOR COBHAM, DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER                        393

INTRODUCTION

In this Ghost Book, M. Larigot, himself a writer of supernatural tales, has collected a remarkable
batch of documents, fictive or real, describing the one human experience that is hardest to
make good. Perhaps the very difficulty of it has rendered it more tempting to the writers who
have dealt with the subject. His collection, notably varied and artfully chosen as it is, yet
by no means exhausts the literature, which fills a place apart with its own recognised classics,
magic masters, and dealers in the occult. Their testimony serves to show that the forms by
which men and women are haunted are far more diverse and subtle than we knew. So much so, that
one begins to wonder at last if every person is not liable to be "possessed." For, lurking
under the seeming identity of these visitations, the dramatic differences of their entrances
and appearances, night and day, are so marked as to suggest that the experience is, given the
fit temperament and occasion, inevitable.

One would even be disposed, accepting this idea, to bring into the account, as valid, stories
and pieces of literature not usually accounted part of the ghostly canon. There are the novels
and tales whose argument is the tragedy of a haunted mind. Such are Dickens' Haunted Man, in
which the ghost is memory; Hawthorne's Scarlet Letter, in which the ghost is cruel conscience;
and Balzac's Quest of the Absolute, in which the old Flemish house of Balthasar Claes, in the
Rue de Paris at Douai, is haunted by a dæmon more potent than that of Canidia. One might add
some of Balzac's shorter stories, among them "The Elixir"; and some of Hawthorne's Twice-Told
Tales, including "Edward Randolph's Portrait." On the French side we might note too that terrible
graveyard tale of Guy de Maupassant, La Morte, in which the lover who has lost his beloved
keeps vigil at her grave by night in his despair, and sees--dreadful resurrection--"que toutes
les tombes étaient ouvertes, et tous les cadavres en étaient sortis." And why? That they might
efface the lying legends inscribed on their tombs, and replace them with the actual truth.
Villiers de l'Isle Adam has in his Contes Cruels given us the strange story of Véra, which
may be read as a companion study to La Morte, with another recall from the dead to end a lover's
obsession. Nature and supernature cross in de l'Isle Adam's mystical drama Axël a play which
will never hold the stage, masterly attempt as it is to dramatise the inexplainable mystery.

Among later tales ought to be reckoned Edith Wharton's Tales of Men and Ghosts, and Henry James's
The Two Magics, whose "Turn of the Screw" gives us new instances of the evil genii that haunt
mortals, in this case two innocent children. One remembers sundry folk-tales with the same
motive--of children bewitched or forespoken--inspiring them. And an old charm in Orkney which
used to run:

    "Father, Son, Holy Ghost!
    Bitten sall they be,
    Bairn, wha have bitten thee!
    Care to their black vein,
    Till thou hast thy health again!
    Mend thou in God's name!"

John Aubrey in his Miscellanies has many naïve evidences of the twilight region of consciousness,
like that between wake and sleep, which tends to fade when we are wideawake; so much so, that
we call it visionary. Yet it is very real to the haunted folk, to Aubrey's correspondent, the
Rector of Chedzoy, or to the false love of the Demon Lover, or that Mr Bourne of whom Glanvil
tells in The Iron Chest of Durley, or the Bishop Evodius who was St Augustine's friend, or
for that matter the son of Monica himself. The reality of these visitations may seem dim, but
the most sceptical of us cannot doubt that, whether from some quickened fear of death or impending
disaster, from evil conscience or swift intensification of vision; whether in the forms of
beloved sons lost at sea or of other revenants who were held indispensably dear in life, the
haunters have appeared, to the absolute belief of those who saw them or their simulacra.

"It poseth me," said Richard Baxter, "to think of what kind these visitants are. Do good spirits
dwell then so near us, or are they sent on such messages?" The question, indeed, poseth most
of us, but we cannot leave the inquiry alone. M. Larigot, realising this preoccupation, has
in the course of his investigations, during many years, arrived at the conclusion that there
is an Art of the Supernatural, apart from the difficult science of psychical research, worth
cultivating for its own sake. So he has gone to Glanvil and Arise Evans and the credulous old
books--to Edgar Poe and Lord Lytton and the modern writers who tell supernatural tales. He
gives us their material without positing its unquestionable effect as police-court evidence,
and if we recognise its artistic interest, he does not mind much if we say at last with one
great visionary, "Hoc est illusionum." But into those realms of illusion we ought not, if he
is right, to enter lightly. Those who do enter there are warned that, having done so, they
will not remain the same; they become aware of what Eugenius meant, who said:

    "I am unbody'd by thy Books, and Thee,
    And in thy papers find my Extasie;
    Or if I please but to descend a strain,
    Thy Elements do screen my Soul again.

    I can undress myself by thy bright Glass,
    And then resume th' Inclosure, as I was.
    Now I am Earth, and now a Star, and then
    A Spirit: now a Star, and earth again ..."

We see that there is another aspect to the occultation of Orion, and a very ominous one. Aurelius
appeared to St. Augustine and made clear a dark passage to him in his reading, and that great
Divine and Father of the Church knew it to be an enlightenment from above. But what of the
other visitants from regions that are unblessed? Paracelsus has taught us to be careful in
our dealings with the realities and the phantasies, as he would conceive them, of the other
world; for "under the Earth do wander half-men." And there are other and worse manifestations
due to Black Magic or Nigromancy, and to the black witches and white and the false sorcerers
who have violently intruded into the true mystery--"like swine broken into a delicate Garden."
Against these subtle and powerful magicians no weapons, coats of mail, or brigandines will
help, no shutting of doors or locks; for they penetrate through all things, and all things
are open to them.

Writing as a physician, Paracelsus sought to anticipate by his Celestial Medicine and his Twelve
Signs the whole mystery of healing, and the cure of the troubled souls and bodies of men and
women, which are not accorded but at odds with nature and supernature. The spirits of discord
are indeed always with us; and whether you see them as witches, disguised in the living human
form, or as monstrous and terrifying dream-figures, or as floating impalpable atmospheres,
they are vigilantly to be guarded against. We know

    "Vervain and dill
    Hinders witches from their will!"

in the old herbals; but we need new drugs. As for that witch which hath haunted all of us,
"Maladicta," Lilly in his Astrology has a remedy.

The haunting apparitions are not all of earth. Cornelius Agrippa, in his book of the Secret
Doctrine, shows that they are astral too.

But the spirits of Mercury are delightful. They indeed are "of colour clear and bright, like
unto a knight armed,--and the motion of them is as it were silver-coloured clouds." So, if
Mars has troubled the world, as in the unhappy history of our own time, we must hope for the
brighter forms, and the remedial and aerial messengers of Mercury.

We may seem to have strayed from the proper boundaries in going so far. But it is one of the
offices of this book to widen the area of research, and relate the ghost-story anew to the
whole literature of wonder and imagination. Such sagas as that which Dr Douglas Hyde has translated
with consummate art from the Irish, "Teig O'Kane and the Corpse," which Mr W.B. Yeats called
a little masterpiece; or Boccaccio's story of the spectre-hounds that pulled down the daughter
of Anastasio, or Scott's "Wandering Willie's Tale," or Hawker's "Cruel Coppinger," or Edgar
Poe's "Fall of the House of Usher," are of their kind not to be beaten. And in their own way
some of the later records are as telling. One can take the book as a text-book of the supernatural,
or as a story-book of that middle world which has given us the ghosts that Homer and Shakespeare
conjured up.

    ERNEST RHYS.

And so I look back upon the strange history of my past, sometimes asking myself: "Can it be
that all this has really happened to the same me, who am now thinking about it in doubt and
wonderment?" It was the seedman's father, who had hitherto kept silence.

"And what might that have been?" asked Mr Lackland.

IV

A STORY OF RAVENNA

By BOCCACCIO

Ravenna being a very ancient city in Romagna, there dwelt sometime a great number of worthy
gentlemen, among whom I am to speak of one more especially, named Anastasio, descended from
the family of Onesti, who by the death of his father, and an uncle of his, was left extraordinarily
abounding in riches and growing to years fitting for marriage. As young gallants are easily
apt enough to do, he became enamoured of a very beautiful gentlewoman, who was daughter of
Messer Paolo Traversario, one of the most ancient and noble families in all the country.

Thus Anastasio persevering still in his bootless affection, and his expenses not limited within
any compass, it appeared in the judgment of his kindred and friends that he was fallen into
a mighty consumption, both of his body and means. It was then about the ninth hour of the day,
and he walking on solitary all alone, having gone some half a mile distance from the tents,
entered into a grove of pine-trees, never minding dinner-time or anything else, but only the
unkind requital of his love. Two fierce bloodhounds also followed swiftly after, and where
their teeth took hold did most cruelly bite her. Last of all, mounted on a lusty black courser,
came galloping a knight, with a very stern and angry countenance, holding a drawn short sword
in his hand, giving her very dreadful speeches, and threatening every minute to kill her. But
through her coy disdain and cruelty, such was my heavy fate that desperately I slew myself
with this short sword which thou beholdest in mine hand; for which rash sinful deed I was and
am condemned to eternal punishment. Then am I enjoined therewith to open her accursed body,
and tear out her heart, with her other inwards, as now thou seest me do, which I give to my
hounds to feed on. Afterward--such is the appointment of the supreme powers--that she re-assumeth
life again, even as if she had not been dead at all, and falling to the same kind of flight,
I with my hounds am still to follow her, without any respite or intermission. Every Friday,
and just at this hour, our course is this way, where she suffereth the just punishment inflicted
on her. Nor do we rest any of the other days, but are appointed unto other places, where she
cruelly executed her malice against me, who am now, of her dear affectionate friend, ordained
to be her endless enemy, and to pursue her in this manner for so many years as she exercised
months of cruelty towards me. Hinder me not, then, in being the executioner of Divine justice,
for all thy interposition is but in vain in seeking to cross the appointment of supreme powers."

Anastasio having heard all this discourse, his hair stood upright, like porcupines' quills,
and his soul was so shaken with the terror, that he stepped back to suffer the knight to do
what he was enjoined, looking yet with mild commiseration on the poor woman, who kneeling most
humbly before the knight, and sternly seized on by the two bloodhounds, he opened her breast
with his weapon, drawing forth her heart and bowels, which instantly he threw to the dogs,
and they devoured them very greedily. Soon after the damsel, as if none of this punishment
had been inflicted on her, started up suddenly, running amain towards the seashore, and the
hounds swiftly following her, as the knight did the like, after he had taken his sword and
was mounted on horseback, so that Anastasio had soon lost all sight of them, and could not
guess what could become of them.

After he had heard and observed all these things, he stood a while as confounded with fear
and pity, like a simple silly man, hoodwinked with his own passions, not knowing the subtle
enemy's cunning illusions in offering false suggestions to the sight, to work his own ends
thereby, and increase the number of his deceived servants. As for the reason thereto moving
me, you shall then more at large be acquainted withal." Most of the gentlewomen there present,
being near allied to the unfortunate woman, and likewise to the knight, remembering well both
his love and death, did shed tears as plentifully as if it had been to the very persons themselves
in usual performance of the action indeed. For now she could call to mind how unkind and cruel
she had shown herself to Anastasio, even as the other gentlewoman formerly did to her lover,
still flying from him in great contempt and scorn, for which she thought the bloodhounds also
pursued her at the heels already, and a sword of vengeance to mangle her body. The maid knowing
sufficiently that he could not be more desirous of the match than her mistress showed herself
to be, made answer in her name that this motion would be most welcome to her.

Hereupon the gentlewoman herself became the solicitor to her father and mother, telling them
plainly that she was willing to be the wife of Anastasio; which news did so highly content
them, that upon the Sunday next following the marriage was very worthily solemnised, and they
lived and loved together very kindly. Thus the Divine bounty, out of the malignant enemy's
secret machinations, can cause good effects to arise and succeed. For from this conceit of
fearful imagination in her, not only happened this long-desired conversion of a maid so obstinately
scornful and proud, but likewise all the women of Ravenna, being admonished by her example,
grew afterward more tractable to men's honest motions than ever they showed themselves before.
Remember then this disdainful gentlewoman, but more especially her, who being the death of
so kind a lover was therefore condemned to perpetual punishment, and he made the minister thereof
whom she had cast off with coy disdain, from which I wish your minds to be free, as mine is
ready to do you any acceptable service.

V

TEIG O'KANE AND THE CORPSE

[Translated from the Irish]

By Dr DOUGLAS HYDE

There was once a grown-up lad in the County Leitrim, and he was strong and lively, and the
son of a rich farmer. His father had plenty of money, and he did not spare it on the son. Accordingly,
when the boy grew up he liked sport better than work, and, as his father had no other children,
he loved this one so much that he allowed him to do in everything just as it pleased himself.
He was very extravagant, and he used to scatter the gold money as another person would scatter
the white. He was seldom to be found at home, but if there was a fair, or a race, or a gathering
within ten miles of him, you were dead certain to find him there. And he seldom spent a night
in his father's house, but he used to be always out rambling, and, like Shawn Bwee long ago,
there was

    "grádh gach cailin i mbrollach a léine,"

"the love of every girl in the breast of his shirt," and it's many's the kiss he got and he
gave, for he was very handsome, and there wasn't a girl in the country but would fall in love
with him, only for him to fasten his two eyes on her, and it was for that someone made this
rann on him--

    "Look at the rogue, it's for kisses he's rambling,
      It isn't much wonder, for that was his way;
    He's like an old hedgehog, at night he'll be scrambling
      From this place to that, but he'll sleep in the day."

At last he became very wild and unruly. He wasn't to be seen day or night in his father's house,
but always rambling or going on his kailee (night visit) from place to place and from house
to house, so that the old people used to shake their heads and say to one another, "It's easy
seen what will happen to the land when the old man dies; his son will run through it in a year,
and it won't stand him that long itself."

He used to be always gambling and card-playing and drinking, but his father never minded his
bad habits, and never punished him. But it happened one day that the old man was told that
the son had ruined the character of a girl in the neighbourhood, and he was greatly angry,
and he called the son to him, and said to him, quietly and sensibly--"Avic," says he, "you
know I loved you greatly up to this, and I never stopped you from doing your choice thing whatever
it was, and I kept plenty of money with you, and I always hoped to leave you the house and
land, and all I had after myself would be gone; but I heard a story of you to-day that has
disgusted me with you. I cannot tell you the grief that I felt when I heard such a thing of
you, and I tell you now plainly that unless you marry that girl I'll leave house and land and
everything to my brother's son. I never could leave it to anyone who would make so bad a use
of it as you do yourself, deceiving women and coaxing girls. Settle with yourself now whether
you'll marry that girl and get my land as a fortune with her, or refuse to marry her and give
up all that was coming to you; and tell me in the morning which of the two things you have chosen."

"Och! Domnoo Sheery! father, you wouldn't say that to me, and I such a good son as I am. Who
told you I wouldn't marry the girl?" says he.

But his father was gone, and the lad knew well enough that he would keep his word too; and
he was greatly troubled in his mind, for as quiet and as kind as the father was, he never went
back of a word that he had once said, and there wasn't another man in the country who was harder
to bend than he was.

The boy did not know rightly what to do. He was in love with the girl indeed, and he hoped
to marry her sometime or other, but he would much sooner have remained another while as he
was, and follow on at his old tricks--drinking, sporting, and playing cards; and, along with
that, he was angry that his father should order him to marry, and should threaten him if he
did not do it.

"Isn't my father a great fool," says he to himself. "I was ready enough, and only too anxious,
to marry Mary; and now since he threatened me, faith I've a great mind to let it go another while."

His mind was so much excited that he remained between two notions as to what he should do.
He walked out into the night at last to cool his heated blood, and went on to the road. He
lit a pipe, and as the night was fine he walked and walked on, until the quick pace made him
begin to forget his trouble. The night was bright, and the moon half full. There was not a
breath of wind blowing, and the air was calm and mild. He walked on for nearly three hours,
when he suddenly remembered that it was late in the night, and time for him to turn. "Musha!
I think I forgot myself," says he; "it must be near twelve o'clock now."

The word was hardly out of his mouth, when he heard the sound of many voices, and the trampling
of feet on the road before him. "I don't know who can be out so late at night as this, and
on such a lonely road," said he to himself.

He stood listening, and he heard the voices of many people talking through other, but he could
not understand what they were saying. "Oh, wirra!" says he, "I'm afraid. It's not Irish or
English they have; it can't be they're Frenchmen!" He went on a couple of yards further, and
he saw well enough by the light of the moon a band of little people coming towards him, and
they were carrying something big and heavy with them. "Oh, murder!" says he to himself, "sure
it can't be that they're the good people that's in it!" Every rib of hair that was on his head
stood up, and there fell a shaking on his bones, for he saw that they were coming to him fast.

He looked at them again, and perceived that there were about twenty little men in it, and there
was not a man at all of them higher than about three feet or three feet and a half, and some
of them were grey, and seemed very old. He looked again, but he could not make out what was
the heavy thing they were carrying until they came up to him, and then they all stood round
about him. They threw the heavy thing down on the road, and he saw on the spot that it was
a dead body.

He became as cold as the Death, and there was not a drop of blood running in his veins when
an old little grey maneen came up to him and said, "Isn't it lucky we met you, Teig O'Kane?"

Poor Teig could not bring out a word at all, nor open his lips, if he were to get the world
for it, and so he gave no answer.

"Teig O'Kane," said the little grey man again, "isn't it timely you met us?"

Teig could not answer him.

"Teig O'Kane," says he, "the third time, isn't it lucky and timely that we met you?"

But Teig remained silent, for he was afraid to return an answer, and his tongue was as if it
was tied to the roof of his mouth.

The little grey man turned to his companions, and there was joy in his bright little eye. "And
now," says he, "Teig O'Kane hasn't a word, we can do with him what we please. Teig, Teig,"
says he, "you're living a bad life, and we can make a slave of you now, and you cannot withstand
us, for there's no use in trying to go against us. Lift that corpse."

Teig was so frightened that he was only able to utter the two words, "I won't"; for as frightened
as he was he was obstinate and stiff, the same as ever.

"Teig O'Kane won't lift the corpse," said the little maneen, with a wicked little laugh, for
all the world like the breaking of a lock of dry kippeens, and with a little harsh voice like
the striking of a cracked bell. "Teig O'Kane won't lift the corpse--make him lift it"; and
before the word was out of his mouth they had all gathered round poor Teig, and they all talking
and laughing through other.

Teig tried to run from them, but they followed him, and a man of them stretched out his foot
before him as he ran, so that Teig was thrown in a heap on the road. Then before he could rise
up the fairies caught him, some by the hands and some by the feet, and they held him tight,
in a way that he could not stir, with his face against the ground. Six or seven of them raised
the body then, and pulled it over to him, and left it down on his back. The breast of the corpse
was squeezed against Teig's back and shoulders, and the arms of the corpse were thrown around
Teig's neck. Then they stood back from him a couple of yards, and let him get up. He rose,
foaming at the mouth and cursing, and he shook himself, thinking to throw the corpse off his
back. But his fear and his wonder were great when he found that the two arms had a tight hold
round his own neck, and that the two legs were squeezing his hips firmly, and that, however
strongly he tried, he could not throw it off, any more than a horse can throw off its saddle.
He was terribly frightened then, and he thought he was lost. "Ochone! for ever," said he to
himself, "it's the bad life I'm leading that has given the good people this power over me.
I promise to God and Mary, Peter and Paul, Patrick and Bridget, that I'll mend my ways for
as long as I have to live, if I come clear out of this danger--and I'll marry the girl."

The little grey man came up to him again, and said he to him, "Now, Teigeen," says he, "you
didn't lift the body when I told you to lift it, and see how you were made to lift it; perhaps
when I tell you to bury it, you won't bury it until you're made to bury it!"

"Anything at all that I can do for your honour," said Teig, "I'll do it," for he was getting
sense already, and if it had not been for the great fear that was on him, he never would have
let that civil word slip out of his mouth.

The little man laughed a sort of laugh again. "You're getting quiet now, Teig," says he. "I'll
go bail but you'll be quiet enough before I'm done with you. Listen to me now, Teig O'Kane,
and if you don't obey me in all I'm telling you to do, you'll repent it. You must carry with
you this corpse that is on your back to Teampoll-Démus, and you must bring it into the church
with you, and make a grave for it in the very middle of the church, and you must raise up the
flags and put them down again the very same way, and you must carry the clay out of the church
and leave the place as it was when you came, so that no one could know that there had been
anything changed. But that's not all. Maybe that the body won't be allowed to be buried in
that church; perhaps some other man has the bed, and, if so, it's likely he won't share it
with this one. If you don't get leave to bury it in Teampoll-Démus, you must carry it to Carrick-fhad-vic-Orus,
and bury it in the churchyard there; and if you don't get it into that place, take it with
you to Teampoll-Ronan; and if that churchyard is closed on you, take it to Imlogue-Fada; and
if you're not able to bury it there, you've no more to do than to take it to Kill-Breedya,
and you can bury it there without hindrance. I cannot tell you what one of those churches is
the one where you will have leave to bury that corpse under the clay, but I know that it will
be allowed you to bury him at some church or other of them. If you do this work rightly, we
will be thankful to you, and you will have no cause to grieve; but if you are slow or lazy,
believe me we shall take satisfaction of you."

When the grey little man had done speaking, his comrades laughed and clapped their hands together.
"Glic! Glic! Hwee! Hwee!" they all cried; "go on, go on, you have eight hours before you till
daybreak, and if you haven't this man buried before the sun rises, you're lost." They struck
a fist and a foot behind on him, and drove him on in the road. He was obliged to walk, and
to walk fast, for they gave him no rest.

He thought himself that there was not a wet path, or a dirty boreen, or a crooked contrary
road in the whole county, that he had not walked that night. The night was at times very dark,
and whenever there would come a cloud across the moon he could see nothing, and then he used
often to fall. Sometimes he was hurt, and sometimes he escaped, but he was obliged always to
rise on the moment and to hurry on. Sometimes the moon would break out clearly, and then he
would look behind him and see the little people following at his back. And he heard them speaking
amongst themselves, talking and crying out, and screaming like a flock of sea-gulls; and if
he was to save his soul he never understood as much as one word of what they were saying.

He did not know how far he had walked, when at last one of them cried out to him, "Stop here!"
He stood, and they all gathered round him.

"Do you see those withered trees over there?" says the old boy to him again. "Teampoll-Démus
is among those trees, and you must go in there by yourself, for we cannot follow you or go
with you. We must remain here. Go on boldly."

Teig looked from him, and he saw a high wall that was in places half broken down, and an old
grey church on the inside of the wall, and about a dozen withered old trees scattered here
and there round it. There was neither leaf nor twig on any of them, but their bare crooked
branches were stretched out like the arms of an angry man when he threatens. He had no help
for it, but was obliged to go forward. He was a couple of hundred yards from the church, but
he walked on, and never looked behind him until he came to the gate of the churchyard. The
old gate was thrown down, and he had no difficulty in entering. He turned then to see if any
of the little people were following him, but there came a cloud over the moon, and the night
became so dark that he could see nothing. He went into the churchyard, and he walked up the
old grassy pathway leading to the church. When he reached the door, he found it locked. The
door was large and strong, and he did not know what to do. At last he drew out his knife with
difficulty, and stuck it in the wood to try if it were not rotten, but it was not.

"Now," said he to himself, "I have no more to do; the door is shut, and I can't open it."

Before the words were rightly shaped in his own mind, a voice in his ear said to him, "Search
for the key on the top of the door, or on the wall."

He started. "Who is that speaking to me?" he cried, turning round; but he saw no one. The voice
said in his ear again, "Search for the key on the top of the door, or on the wall."

"What's that?" said he, and the sweat running from his forehead; "who spoke to me?"

"It's I, the corpse, that spoke to you!" said the voice.

"Can you talk?" said Teig.

"Now and again," said the corpse.

Teig searched for the key, and he found it on the top of the wall. He was too much frightened
to say any more, but he opened the door wide, and as quickly as he could, and he went in, with
the corpse on his back. It was as dark as pitch inside, and poor Teig began to shake and tremble.

"Light the candle," said the corpse.

Teig put his hand in his pocket, as well as he was able, and drew out a flint and steel. He
struck a spark out of it, and lit a burnt rag he had in his pocket. He blew it until it made
a flame, and he looked round him. The church was very ancient, and part of the wall was broken
down. The windows were blown in or cracked, and the timber of the seats were rotten. There
were six or seven old iron candlesticks left there still, and in one of these candlesticks
Teig found the stump of an old candle, and he lit it. He was still looking round him on the
strange and horrid place in which he found himself, when the cold corpse whispered in his ear,
"Bury me now, bury me now; there is a spade and turn the ground." Teig looked from him, and
he saw a spade lying beside the altar. He took it up, and he placed the blade under a flag
that was in the middle of the aisle, and leaning all his weight on the handle of the spade,
he raised it. When the first flag was raised it was not hard to raise the others near it, and
he moved three or four of them out of their places. The clay that was under them was soft and
easy to dig, but he had not thrown up more than three or four shovelfuls when he felt the iron
touch something soft like flesh. He threw up three or four more shovelfuls from around it,
and then he saw that it was another body that was buried in the same place.

"I am afraid I'll never be allowed to bury the two bodies in the same hole," said Teig, in
his own mind. "You corpse, there on my back," says he, "will you be satisfied if I bury you
down here?" But the corpse never answered him a word.

"That's a good sign," said Teig to himself. "Maybe he's getting quiet," and he thrust the spade
down in the earth again. Perhaps he hurt the flesh of the other body, for the dead man that
was buried there stood up in the grave, and shouted an awful shout. "Hoo! hoo!! hoo!!! Go!
go!! go!!! or you're a dead, dead, dead man!" And then he fell back in the grave again. Teig
said afterwards, that of all the wonderful things he saw that night, that was the most awful
to him. His hair stood upright on his head like the bristles of a pig, the cold sweat ran off
his face, and then came a tremour over all his bones, until he thought that he must fall.

But after a while he became bolder, when he saw that the second corpse remained lying quietly
there, and he threw in the clay on it again, and he smoothed it overhead, and he laid down
the flags carefully as they had been before. "It can't be that he'll rise up any more," said he.

He went down the aisle a little further, and drew near to the door, and began raising the flags
again, looking for another bed for the corpse on his back. He took up three or four flags and
put them aside, and then he dug the clay. He was not long digging until he laid bare an old
woman without a thread upon her but her shirt. She was more lively than the first corpse, for
he had scarcely taken any of the clay away from about her, when she sat up and began to cry,
"Ho, you bodach (clown)! Ha, you bodach! Where has he been that he got no bed?"

Poor Teig drew back, and when she found that she was getting no answer, she closed her eyes
gently, lost her vigour, and fell back quietly and slowly under the clay. Teig did to her as
he had done to the man--he threw the clay back on her, and left the flags down overhead.

He began digging again near the door, but before he had thrown up more than a couple of shovelfuls,
he noticed a man's hand laid bare by the spade. "By my soul, I'll go no further, then," said
he to himself; "what use is it for me?" And he threw the clay in again on it, and settled the
flags as they had been before.

He left the church then, and his heart was heavy enough, but he shut the door and locked it,
and left the key where he found it. He sat down on a tombstone that was near the door, and
began thinking. He was in great doubt what he should do. He laid his face between his two hands,
and cried for grief and fatigue, since he was dead certain at this time that he never would
come home alive. He made another attempt to loosen the hands of the corpse that were squeezed
round his neck, but they were as tight as if they were clamped; and the more he tried to loosen
them, the tighter they squeezed him. He was going to sit down once more, when the cold, horrid
lips of the dead man said to him, "Carrick-fhad-vic-Orus," and he remembered the command of
the good people to bring the corpse with him to that place if he should be unable to bury it
where he had been.

He rose up, and looked about him. "I don't know the way," he said.

As soon as he had uttered the word, the corpse stretched out suddenly its left hand that had
been tightened round his neck, and kept it pointing out, showing him the road he ought to follow.
Teig went in the direction that the fingers were stretched, and passed out of the churchyard.
He found himself on an old rutty, stony road, and he stood still again, not knowing where to
turn. The corpse stretched out its bony hand a second time, and pointed out to him another
road--not the road by which he had come when approaching the old church. Teig followed that
road, and whenever he came to a path or road meeting it, the corpse always stretched out its
hand and pointed with its fingers, showing him the way he was to take.

Many was the cross-road he turned down, and many was the crooked boreen he walked, until he
saw from him an old burying-ground at last, beside the road, but there was neither church nor
chapel nor any other building in it. The corpse squeezed him tightly, and he stood. "Bury me,
bury me in the burying-ground," said the voice.

Teig drew over towards the old burying-place, and he was not more than about twenty yards from
it, when, raising his eyes, he saw hundreds and hundreds of ghosts--men, women, and children--sitting
on the top of the wall round about, or standing on the inside of it, or running backwards and
forwards, and pointing at him, while he could see their mouths opening and shutting as if they
were speaking, though he heard no word, nor any sound amongst them at all.

He was afraid to go forward, so he stood where he was, and the moment he stood, all the ghosts
became quiet, and ceased moving. Then Teig understood that it was trying to keep him from going
in, that they were. He walked a couple of yards forwards, and immediately the whole crowd rushed
together towards the spot to which he was moving, and they stood so thickly together that it
seemed to him that he never could break through them, even though he had a mind to try. But
he had no mind to try it. He went back broken and dispirited, and when he had gone a couple
of hundred yards from the burying-ground, he stood again, for he did not know what way he was
to go. He heard the voice of the corpse in his ear, saying, "Teampoll-Ronan," and the skinny
hand was stretched out again, pointing him out the road.

As tired as he was, he had to walk, and the road was neither short nor even. The night was
darker than ever, and it was difficult to make his way. Many was the toss he got, and many
a bruise they left on his body. At last he saw Teampoll-Ronan from him in the distance, standing
in the middle of the burying-ground. He moved over towards it, and thought he was all right
and safe, when he saw no ghosts nor anything else on the wall, and he thought he would never
be hindered now from leaving his load off him at last. He moved over to the gate, but as he
was passing in, he tripped on the threshold. Before he could recover himself, something that
he could not see seized him by the neck, by the hands, and by the feet, and bruised him, and
shook him, and choked him, until he was nearly dead; and at last he was lifted up, and carried
more than a hundred yards from that place, and then thrown down in an old dyke, with the corpse
still clinging to him.

He rose up, bruised and sore, but feared to go near the place again, for he had seen nothing
the time he was thrown down and carried away.

"You corpse, up on my back?" said he, "shall I go over again to the churchyard?"--but the corpse
never answered him. "That's a sign you don't wish me to try it again," said Teig.

He was now in great doubt as to what he ought to do, when the corpse spoke in his ear, and
said, "Imlogue-Fada."

"Oh, murder!" said Teig, "must I bring you there? If you keep me long walking like this, I
tell you I'll fall under you."

He went on, however, in the direction the corpse pointed out to him. He could not have told,
himself, how long he had been going, when the dead man behind suddenly squeezed him, and said,
"There!"

Teig looked from him, and he saw a little low wall, that was so broken down in places that
it was no wall at all. It was in a great wide field, in from the road; and only for three or
four great stones at the corners, that were more like rocks than stones, there was nothing
to show that there was either graveyard or burying-ground there.

"Is this Imlogue-Fada? Shall I bury you here?" said Teig.

"Yes," said the voice.

"But I see no grave or gravestone, only this pile of stones," said Teig.

The corpse did not answer, but stretched out its long fleshless hand to show Teig the direction
in which he was to go. Teig went on accordingly, but he was greatly terrified, for he remembered
what had happened to him at the last place. He went on, "with his heart in his mouth," as he
said himself afterwards; but when he came to within fifteen or twenty yards of the little low
square wall, there broke out a flash of lightning, bright yellow and red, with blue streaks
in it, and went round about the wall in one course, and it swept by as fast as the swallow
in the clouds, and the longer Teig remained looking at it the faster it went, till at last
it became like a bright ring of flame round the old graveyard, which no one could pass without
being burnt by it. Teig never saw, from the time he was born, and never saw afterwards, so
wonderful or so splendid a sight as that was. Round went the flame, white and yellow and blue
sparks leaping out from it as it went, and although at first it had been no more than a thin,
narrow line, it increased slowly until it was at last a great broad band, and it was continually
getting broader and higher, and throwing out more brilliant sparks, till there was never a
colour on the ridge of the earth that was not to be seen in that fire; and lightning never
shone and flame never flamed that was so shining and so bright as that.

Teig was amazed; he was half dead with fatigue, and he had no courage left to approach the
wall. There fell a mist over his eyes, and there came a soorawn in his head, and he was obliged
to sit down upon a great stone to recover himself. He could see nothing but the light, and
he could hear nothing but the whirr of it as it shot round the paddock faster than a flash
of lightning.

As he sat there on the stone, the voice whispered once more in his ear, "Kill-Breedya"; and
the dead man squeezed him so tightly that he cried out. He rose again, sick, tired, and trembling,
and went forward as he was directed. The wind was cold, and the road was bad, and the load
upon his back was heavy, and the night was dark, and he himself was nearly worn out, and if
he had had very much farther to go he must have fallen dead under his burden.

At last the corpse stretched out its hand, and said to him, "Bury me there."

"This is the last burying-place," said Teig in his own mind; "and the little grey man said
I'd be allowed to bury him in some of them, so it must be this; it can't be but they'll let
him in here."

The first, faint streak of the ring of day was appearing in the east, and the clouds were beginning
to catch fire, but it was darker than ever, for the moon was set, and there were no stars.

"Make haste, make haste!" said the corpse; and Teig hurried forward as well as he could to
the graveyard, which was a little place on a bare hill, with only a few graves in it. He walked
boldly in through the open gate, and nothing touched him, nor did he either hear or see anything.
He came to the middle of the ground, and then stood up and looked round him for a spade or
shovel to make a grave. As he was turning round and searching, he suddenly perceived what startled
him greatly--a newly-dug grave right before him. He moved over to it, and looked down, and
there at the bottom he saw a black coffin. He clambered down into the hole and lifted the lid,
and found that (as he thought it would be) the coffin was empty. He had hardly mounted up out
of the hole, and was standing on the brink, when the corpse, which had clung to him for more
than eight hours, suddenly relaxed its hold of his neck, and loosened its shins from round
his hips, and sank down with a plop into the open coffin.

Teig fell down on his two knees at the brink of the grave, and gave thanks to God. He made
no delay then, but pressed down the coffin lid in its place, and threw in the clay over it
with his two hands, and when the grave was filled up, he stamped and leaped on it with his
feet, until it was firm and hard, and then he left the place.

The sun was fast rising as he finished his work, and the first thing he did was to return to
the road, and look out for a house to rest himself in. He found an inn at last; and lay down
upon a bed there, and slept till night. Then he rose up and ate a little, and fell asleep again
till morning. When he awoke in the morning he hired a horse and rode home. He was more than
twenty-six miles from home where he was, and he had come all that way with the dead body on
his back in one night.

All the people at his own home thought that he must have left the country, and they rejoiced
greatly when they saw him come back. Everyone began asking him where he had been, but he would
not tell anyone except his father.

He was a changed man from that day. He never drank too much; he never lost his money over cards;
and especially he would not take the world and be out late by himself of a dark night.

He was not a fortnight at home until he married Mary, the girl he had been in love with, and
it's at their wedding the sport was, and it's he was the happy man from that day forward, and
it's all I wish that we may be as happy as he was.

       *       *       *       *       *

GLOSSARY.--Rann, a stanza; kailee (céilidhe), a visit in the evening; wirra (a mhuire), "Oh,
Mary!" an exclamation like the French dame; rib, a single hair (in Irish, ribe); a lock (glac),
a bundle or wisp, or a little share of anything; kippeen (cipín), a rod or twig; boreen (bóithrín),
a lane; bodach, a clown; soorawn (suarán), vertigo. Avic (a Mhic)=my son, or rather, Oh, son.
Mic is the vocative of Mac.

I unbarred the shutters--the window looked on the little backyard I have before described;
there was no ledge without--nothing but sheer descent.

"Granting mesmerism, so far carried, to be a fact, you are right. And you would infer from
this that a mesmeriser might produce the extraordinary effects you and others have witnessed
over inanimate objects--fill the air with sights and sounds?" The strange thing was this--the
instant I saw the miniature I recognised a startling likeness to one of the rarest portraits
in the world--the portrait of a man of a rank only below that of royalty, who in his own day
had made a considerable noise. History says little or nothing of him; but search the correspondence
of his contemporaries, and you find reference to his wild daring, his bold profligacy, his
restless spirit, his taste for the occult sciences. While still in the meridian of life he
died and was buried, so say the chronicles, in a foreign land. He died in time to escape the
grasp of the law, for he was accused of crimes which would have given him to the headsman.

After his death, the portraits of him, which had been numerous, for he had been a munificent
encourager of art, were bought up and destroyed--it was supposed by his heirs, who might have
been glad could they have razed his very name from their splendid line. He had enjoyed a vast
wealth; a large portion of this was believed to have been embezzled by a favourite astrologer
or soothsayer--at all events, it had unaccountably vanished at the time of his death. One portrait
alone of him was supposed to have escaped the general destruction; I had seen it in the house
of a collector some months before. It had made on me a wonderful impression, as it does on
all who behold it--a face never to be forgotten; and there was that face in the miniature that
lay within my hand. True, that in the miniature the man was a few years older than in the portrait
I had seen, or than the original was even at the time of his death. But a few years!--why,
between the date in which flourished that direful noble and the date in which the miniature
was evidently painted, there was an interval of more than two centuries. While I was thus gazing,
silent and wondering, Mr J---- said:

"But is it possible? I have known this man."

"How--where?" I cried.

"In India. He was high in the confidence of the Rajah of ----, and wellnigh drew him into a
revolt which would have lost the Rajah his dominions. The man was a Frenchman--his name de
V----, clever, bold, lawless. We insisted on his dismissal and banishment: it must be the same
man--no two faces like his--yet this miniature seems nearly a hundred years old."

But my story is not yet done. A few days after Mr J---- had removed into the house, I paid
him a visit. We were standing by the open window and conversing. A van containing some articles
of furniture which he was moving from his former house was at the door. I had just urged on
him my theory that all those phenomena regarded as supermundane had emanated from a human brain;
adducing the charm, or rather curse, we had found and destroyed in support of my philosophy.
Mr J---- was observing in reply, "That even if mesmerism, or whatever analogous power it might
be called, could really thus work in the absence of the operator, and produce effects so extraordinary,
still could those effects continue when the operator himself was dead? and if the spell had
been wrought, and, indeed, the room walled up, more than seventy years ago, the probability
was, that the operator had long since departed this life"; Mr J----, I say, was thus answering,
when I caught hold of his arm and pointed to the street below.

A well-dressed man had crossed from the opposite side, and was accosting the carrier in charge
of the van. His face, as he stood, was exactly fronting our window. It was the face of the
miniature we had discovered; it was the face of the portrait of the noble three centuries ago.

"Good Heavens!" cried Mr J----, "that is the face of de V----, and scarcely a day older than
when I saw it in the Rajah's court in my youth!"

Seized by the same thought, we both hastened downstairs. I was first in the street; but the
man had already gone. I caught sight of him, however, not many yards in advance, and in another
moment I was by his side.

I had resolved to speak to him, but when I looked into his face I felt as if it were impossible
to do so. That eye--the eye of the serpent--fixed and held me spellbound. And withal, about
the man's whole person there was a dignity, an air of pride and station and superiority, that
would have made anyone, habituated to the usages of the world, hesitate long before venturing
upon a liberty or impertinence. And what could I say? what was it I would ask? Thus ashamed
of my first impulse, I fell a few paces back, still, however, following the stranger, undecided
what else to do. Meanwhile he turned the corner of the street; a plain carriage was in waiting,
with a servant out of livery, dressed like a valet-de-place, at the carriage door. In another
moment he had stepped into the carriage, and it drove off. I returned to the house. Mr J----
was still at the street door. He had asked the carrier what the stranger had said to him.

"Merely asked whom that house now belonged to."

The same evening I happened to go with a friend to a place in town called the Cosmopolitan
Club, a place open to men of all countries, all opinions, all degrees. One orders one's coffee,
smokes one's cigar. One is always sure to meet agreeable, sometimes remarkable, persons.

I had not been two minutes in the room before I beheld at a table, conversing with an acquaintance
of mine, whom I will designate by the initial G----, the man--the Original of the Miniature.
He was now without his hat, and the likeness was yet more startling, only I observed that while
he was conversing there was less severity in the countenance; there was even a smile, though
a very quiet and very cold one. The dignity of mien I had acknowledged in the street was also
more striking; a dignity akin to that which invests some prince of the East--conveying the
idea of supreme indifference and habitual, indisputable, indolent, but resistless power.

G---- soon after left the stranger, who then took up a scientific journal, which seemed to
absorb his attention.

I drew G---- aside. "Who and what is that gentleman?"

"That? Oh, a very remarkable man indeed. I met him last year amidst the caves of Petra--the
scriptural Edom. He is the best Oriental scholar I know. We joined company, had an adventure
with robbers, in which he showed a coolness that saved our lives; afterwards he invited me
to spend a day with him in a house he had bought at Damascus--a house buried amongst almond
blossoms and roses--the most beautiful thing! He had lived there for some years, quite as an
Oriental, in grand style. I half suspect he is a renegade, immensely rich, very odd; by the
by, a great mesmeriser. I have seen him with my own eyes produce an effect on inanimate things.
If you take a letter from your pocket and throw it to the other end of the room, he will order
it to come to his feet, and you will see the letter wriggle itself along the floor till it
has obeyed his command. 'Pon my honour, 'tis true: I have seen him affect even the weather,
disperse or collect clouds, by means of a glass tube or wand. But he does not like talking
of these matters to strangers. He has only just arrived in England; says he has not been here
for a great many years; let me introduce him to you."

"Certainly! He is English, then? What is his name?"

"Oh!--a very homely one--Richards."

"And what is his birth--his family?"

"How do I know? What does it signify?--no doubt some parvenu, but rich--so infernally rich!"

G---- drew me up to the stranger, and the introduction was effected. The manners of Mr Richards
were not those of an adventurous traveller. Travellers are in general constitutionally gifted
with high animal spirits: they are talkative, eager, imperious. Mr Richards was calm and subdued
in tone, with manners which were made distant by the loftiness of punctilious courtesy--the
manners of a former age. I observed that the English he spoke was not exactly of our day. I
should even have said that the accent was slightly foreign. But then Mr Richards remarked that
he had been little in the habit for many years of speaking in his native tongue. The conversation
fell upon the changes in the aspect of London since he had last visited our metropolis. G----
then glanced off to the moral changes--literary, social, political--the great men who were
removed from the stage within the last twenty years--the new great men who were coming on.
In all this Mr Richards evinced no interest. He had evidently read none of our living authors,
and seemed scarcely acquainted by name with our younger statesmen. Once and only once he laughed;
it was when G---- asked him whether he had any thoughts of getting into Parliament. And the
laugh was inward--sarcastic--sinister--a sneer raised into a laugh. After a few minutes G----
left us to talk to some other acquaintances who had just lounged into the room, and I then
said quietly:

"I have seen a miniature of you, Mr Richards, in the house you once inhabited, and perhaps
built, if not wholly, at least in part, in ---- Street. You passed by that house this morning."

Not till I had finished did I raise my eyes to his, and then his fixed my gaze so steadfastly
that I could not withdraw it--those fascinating serpent eyes. But involuntarily, and if the
words that translated my thought were dragged from me, I added in a low whisper, "I have been
a student in the mysteries of life and nature; of those mysteries I have known the occult professors.
I have the right to speak to you thus." And I uttered a certain pass-word.

"Well," said he, dryly, "I concede the right--what would you ask?"

"To what extent human will in certain temperaments can extend?"

"To what extent can thought extend? Think, and before you draw breath you are in China!"

"True. But my thought has no power in China."

"Give it expression, and it may have: you may write down a thought which, sooner or later,
may alter the whole condition of China. What is a law but a thought? Therefore thought is infinite--therefore
thought has power; not in proportion to its value--a bad thought may make a bad law as potent
as a good thought can make a good one."

"Yes; what you say confirms my own theory. Through invisible currents one human brain may transmit
its ideas to other human brains with the same rapidity as a thought promulgated by visible
means. And as thought is imperishable--as it leaves its stamp behind it in the natural world
even when the thinker has passed out of this world--so the thought of the living may have power
to rouse up and revive the thoughts of the dead--such as those thoughts were in life--though
the thought of the living cannot reach the thoughts which the dead now may entertain. Is it
not so?"

"I decline to answer, if, in my judgment, thought has the limit you would fix to it; but proceed.
You have a special question you wish to put."

"Intense malignity in an intense will, engendered in a peculiar temperament, and aided by natural
means within the reach of science, may produce effects like those ascribed of old to evil magic.
It might thus haunt the walls of a human habitation with spectral revivals of all guilty thoughts
and guilty deeds once conceived and done within those walls; all, in short, with which the
evil will claims rapport and affinity--imperfect, incoherent, fragmentary snatches at the old
dramas acted therein years ago. Thoughts thus crossing each other haphazard, as in the nightmare
of a vision, growing up into phantom sights and sounds, and all serving to create horror, not
because those sights and sounds are really visitations from a world without, but that they
are ghastly monstrous renewals of what have been in this world itself, set into malignant play
by a malignant mortal.

"And it is through the material agency of that human brain that these things would acquire
even a human power--would strike as with the shock of electricity, and might kill, if the thought
of the person assailed did not rise superior to the dignity of the original assailer--might
kill the most powerful animal if unnerved by fear, but not injure the feeblest man, if, while
his flesh crept, his mind stood out fearless. Thus, when in old stories we read of a magician
rent to pieces by the fiends he had evoked--or still more, in Eastern legends, that one magician
succeeds by arts in destroying another--there may be so far truth, that a material being has
clothed, from its own evil propensities certain elements and fluids, usually quiescent or harmless,
with awful shape and terrific force--just as the lightning that had lain hidden and innocent
in the cloud becomes by natural law suddenly visible, takes a distinct shape to the eye, and
can strike destruction on the object to which it is attracted."

"You are not without glimpses of a very mighty secret," said Mr Richards, composedly. "According
to your view, could a mortal obtain the power you speak of, he would necessarily be a malignant
and evil being."

"If the power were exercised as I have said, most malignant and most evil--though I believe
in the ancient traditions that he could not injure the good. His will could only injure those
with whom it has established an affinity, or over whom it forces unresisted sway. I will now
imagine an example that may be within the laws of nature, yet seem wild as the fables of a
bewildered monk.

"You will remember that Albertus Magnus, after describing minutely the process by which spirits
may be invoked and commanded, adds emphatically that the process will instruct and avail only
to the few--that a man must be born a magician!--that is, born with a peculiar physical temperament,
as a man is born a poet. Rarely are men in whose constitution lurks this occult power of the
highest order of intellect;--usually in the intellect there is some twist, perversity, or disease.
But, on the other hand, they must possess, to an astonishing degree, the faculty to concentrate
thought on a single object--the energic faculty that we call will. Therefore, though their
intellect be not sound, it is exceedingly forcible for the attainment of what it desires. I
will imagine such a person, pre-eminently gifted with this constitution and its concomitant
forces. I will place him in the loftier grades of society. I will suppose his desires emphatically
those of the sensualist--he has, therefore, a strong love of life. He is an absolute egotist--his
will is concentrated in himself--he has fierce passions--he knows no enduring, no holy affections,
but he can covet eagerly what for the moment he desires--he can hate implacably what opposes
itself to his objects--he can commit fearful crimes, yet feel small remorse--he resorts rather
to curses upon others, than to penitence for his misdeeds. Circumstances, to which his constitution
guides him, lead him to a rare knowledge of the natural secrets which may serve his egotism.
He is a close observer where his passions encourage observation, he is a minute calculator,
not from love of truth, but where love of self sharpens his faculties--therefore he can be
a man of science.

"I suppose such a being, having by experience learned the power of his arts over others, trying
what may be the power of will over his own frame, and studying all that in natural philosophy
may increase that power. He loves life, he dreads death; he wills to live on. He cannot restore
himself to youth, he cannot entirely stay the progress of death, he cannot make himself immortal
in the flesh and blood; but he may arrest for a time so prolonged as to appear incredible,
if I said it--that hardening of the parts which constitutes old age. A year may age him no
more than an hour ages another. His intense will, scientifically trained into system, operates,
in short, over the wear and tear of his own frame. He lives on. That he may not seem a portent
and a miracle, he dies from time to time, seemingly, to certain persons. Having schemed the
transfer of a wealth that suffices to his wants, he disappears from one corner of the world,
and contrives that his obsequies shall be celebrated. He reappears at another corner of the
world, where he resides undetected, and does not revisit the scenes of his former career till
all who could remember his features are no more. He would be profoundly miserable if he had
affections--he has none but for himself. No good man would accept his longevity, and to no
men, good or bad, would he or could he communicate its true secret. Such a man might exist;
such a man as I have described I see now before me!--Duke of ----, in the court of ----, dividing
time between lust and brawl, alchemists and wizards;--again, in the last century, charlatan
and criminal, with name less noble, domiciled in the house at which you gazed to-day, and flying
from the law you had outraged, none knew whither; traveller once more revisiting London, with
the same earthly passions which filled your heart when races now no more walked through yonder
streets; outlaw from the school of all the nobler and diviner mystics; execrable Image of Life
in Death and Death in Life, I warn you back from the cities and homes of healthful men; back
to the ruins of departed empires; back to the deserts of nature unredeemed!"

There answered me a whisper so musical, so potently musical, that it seemed to enter into my
whole being, and subdue me despite myself. Thus it said:

"I have sought one like you for the last hundred years. Now I have found you, we part not till
I know what I desire. The vision that sees through the Past, and cleaves through the veil of
the Future, is in you at this hour; never before, never to come again. The vision of no puling
fantastic girl, of no sick-bed somnambule, but of a strong man, with a vigorous brain. Soar
and look forth!"

As he spoke I felt as if I rose out of myself upon eagle wings. All the weight seemed gone
from air--roofless the room, roofless the dome of space. I was not in the body--where I knew
not--but aloft over time, over earth.

Again I heard the melodious whisper,--"You say right. I have mastered great secrets by the
power of Will; true, by Will and by Science I can retard the process of years: but death comes
not by age alone. Can I frustrate the accidents which bring death upon the young?"

"No; every accident is a providence. Before a providence snaps every human will."

"Shall I die at last, ages and ages hence, by the slow, though inevitable, growth of time,
or by the cause that I call accident?"

"By a cause you call accident."

"Is not the end still remote?" asked the whisper, with a slight tremor.

"Regarded as my life regards time, it is still remote."

"And shall I, before then, mix with the world of men as I did ere I learned these secrets,
resume eager interest in their strife and their trouble--battle with ambition, and use the
power of the sage to win the power that belongs to kings?"

"You will yet play a part on the earth that will fill earth with commotion and amaze. For wondrous
designs have you, a wonder yourself, been permitted to live on through the centuries. All the
secrets you have stored will then have their uses--all that now makes you a stranger amidst
the generations will contribute then to make you their lord. As the trees and the straws are
drawn into a whirlpool--as they spin round, are sucked to the deep, and again tossed aloft
by the eddies, so shall races and thrones be plucked into the charm of your vortex. Awful Destroyer--but
in destroying, made, against your own will, a Constructor!"

"And that date, too, is far off?"

"Far off; when it comes, think your end in this world is at hand!"

"How and what is the end? Look east, west, south, and north."

"In the north, where you never yet trod towards the point whence your instincts have warned
you, there a spectre will seize you. 'Tis Death! I see a ship--it is haunted--'tis chased--it
sails on. Baffled navies sail after that ship. It enters the region of ice. It passes a sky
red with meteors. Two moons stand on high, over ice-reefs. I see the ship locked between white
defiles--they are ice-rocks. I see the dead strew the decks--stark and livid, green mould on
their limbs. All are dead but one man--it is you! But years, though so slowly they come, have
then scathed you. There is the coming of age on your brow, and the will is relaxed in the cells
of the brain. Still that will, though enfeebled, exceeds all that man knew before you, through
the will you live on, gnawed with famine; and nature no longer obeys you in that death-spreading
region; the sky is a sky of iron, and the air has iron clamps, and the ice-rocks wedge in the
ship. Hark how it cracks and groans. Ice will imbed it as amber imbeds a straw. And a man has
gone forth, living yet, from the ship and its dead; and he has clambered up the spikes of an
iceberg, and the two moons gaze down on his form. That man is yourself; and terror is on you--terror;
and terror has swallowed your will. And I see swarming up the steep ice-rock, grey grisly things.
The bears of the north have scented their quarry--they come near you and nearer, shambling
and rolling their bulk. And in that day every moment shall seem to you longer than the centuries
through which you have passed. And heed this--after life, moments continued make the bliss
or the hell of eternity."

"Hush," said the whisper; "but the day, you assure me, is far off--very far! I go back to the
almond and rose of Damascus!--sleep!"

The room swam before my eyes. I became insensible. When I recovered, I found G---- holding
my hand and smiling. He said, "You who have always declared yourself proof against mesmerism
have succumbed at last to my friend Richards."

"Where is Mr Richards?"

"Gone, when you passed into a trance--saying quietly to me, 'Your friend will not wake for
an hour.'"

I asked, as collectedly as I could, where Mr Richards lodged.

"At the Trafalgar Hotel."

"Give me your arm," said I to G----; "let us call on him; I have something to say."

When we arrived at the hotel, we were told that Mr Richards had returned twenty minutes before,
paid his bill, left directions with his servant (a Greek) to pack his effects and proceed to
Malta by the steamer that should leave Southampton the next day. Mr Richards had merely said
of his own movements that he had visits to pay in the neighbourhood of London, and it was uncertain
whether he should be able to reach Southampton in time for that steamer; if not, he should
follow in the next one.

The waiter asked me my name. On my informing him, he gave me a note that Mr Richards had left
for me, in case I called.

The note was as follows: "I wished you to utter what was in your mind. You obeyed. I have therefore
established power over you. For three months from this day you can communicate to no living
man what has passed between us--you cannot even show this note to the friend by your side.
During three months, silence complete as to me and mine. Do you doubt my power to lay on you
this command?--try to disobey me. At the end of the third month, the spell is raised. For the
rest I spare you. I shall visit your grave a year and a day after it has received you."

So ends this strange story, which I ask no one to believe. I write it down exactly three months
after I received the above note. I could not write it before, nor could I show to G----, in
spite of his urgent request, the note which I read under the gas-lamp by his side.

VII

THE BOTATHEN GHOST

By the Rev. S.R. HAWKER

The legend of Parson Rudall and the Botathen Ghost will be recognised by many Cornish people
as a local remembrance of their boyhood.

It appears from the diary of this learned master of the grammar-school--for such was his office,
as well as perpetual curate of the parish,--"that a pestilential disease did break forth in
our town in the beginning of the year A.D. 1665; yea, and it likewise invaded my school, insomuch
that therewithal certain of the chief scholars sickened and died." "Among others who yielded
to the malign influence was Master John Eliot, the eldest son and the worshipful heir of Edward
Eliot, Esquire of Trebursey, a stripling of sixteen years of age, but of uncommon parts and
hopeful ingenuity. At his own especial motion and earnest desire I did consent to preach his
funeral sermon." It should be remembered here that, howsoever strange and singular it may sound
to us that a mere lad should formally solicit such a performance at the hands of his master,
it was in consonance with the habitual usage of those times. The old services for the dead
had been abolished by law, and in the stead of sacrament and ceremony, month's mind and year's
mind, the sole substitute which survived was the general desire "to partake," as they called
it, of a posthumous discourse, replete with lofty eulogy and flattering remembrance of the
living and the dead. The diary proceeds:

"I fulfilled my undertaking and preached over the coffin in the presence of a full assemblage
of mourners and lachrymose friends. An ancient gentleman who was then and there in the church,
a Mr Bligh of Botathen, was much affected by my discourse, and he was heard to repeat to himself
certain parentheses therefrom, especially a phrase from Maro Virgilius, which I had applied
to the deceased youth, 'Et puer ipse fuit cantari dignus.'

"The cause wherefore this old gentleman was thus moved by my applications was this: He had
a first-born and only son--a child who, but a very few months before, had been not unworthy
of the character I drew of young Master Eliot, but who, by some strange accident, had of late
quite fallen away from his parent's hopes, and become moody, and sullen, and distraught. When
the funeral obsequies were over, I had no sooner come out of the church than I was accosted
by this aged parent, and he besought me incontinently, with a singular energy, that I would
resort with him forthwith to his abode at Botathen that very night; nor could I have delivered
myself from his importunity, had not Mr Eliot urged his claim to enjoy my company at his own
house. Hereupon I got loose, but not until I had pledged a fast assurance that I would pay
him, faithfully, an early visit the next day."

"The Place," as it was called, of Botathen, where old Mr Bligh resided, was a low-roofed gabled
manor-house of the fifteenth century, walled and mullioned, and with clustered chimneys of
dark-grey stone from the neighbouring quarries of Ventor-gan. The mansion was flanked by a
pleasaunce or enclosure in one space, of garden and lawn, and it was surrounded by a solemn
grove of stag-horned trees. It had the sombre aspect of age and of solitude, and looked the
very scene of strange and supernatural events. A legend might well belong to every gloomy glade
around, and there must surely be a haunted room somewhere within its walls. Hither, according
to his appointment, on the morrow, Parson Rudall betook himself. Another clergyman, as it appeared,
had been invited to meet him, who, very soon after his arrival, proposed a walk together in
the pleasaunce, on the pretext of showing him, as a stranger, the walks and trees, until the
dinner-bell should strike. There, with much prolixity, and with many a solemn pause, his brother
minister proceeded to "unfold the mystery."

"A singular infelicity," he declared, "had befallen young Master Bligh, once the hopeful heir
of his parents and of the lands of Botathen. Whereas he had been from childhood a blithe and
merry boy, 'the gladness,' like Isaac of old, of his father's age, he had suddenly of late
become morose and silent--nay, even austere and stern--dwelling apart, always solemn, often
in tears. The lad had at first repulsed all questions as to the origin of this great change,
but of late he had yielded to the importunate researches of his parents, and had disclosed
the secret cause. It appeared that he resorted, every day, by a pathway across the fields,
to this very clergyman's house, who had charge of his education, and grounded him in the studies
suitable to his age. In the course of his daily walk he had to pass a certain heath or down
where the road wound along through tall blocks of granite with open spaces of grassy sward
between. There in a certain spot and always in one and the same place, the lad declared that
he had encountered, every day, a woman with a pale and troubled face, clothed in a long loose
garment of frieze, with one hand always stretched forth, and the other pressed against her
side. Her name, he said, was Dorothy Dinglet, for he had known her well from his childhood,
and she often used to come to his parents' house; but that which troubled him was, that she
had now been dead three years, and he himself had been with the neighbours at her burial; so
that, as the youth alleged, with great simplicity, since he had seen her body laid in the grave,
this that he saw every day must needs be her soul or ghost. 'Questioned again and again,' said
the clergyman, 'he never contradicts himself; but he relates the same and the simple tale as
a thing that cannot be gainsaid. Indeed, the lad's observance is keen and calm for a boy of
his age. The hair of the appearance, sayeth he, is not like anything alive, but it is so soft
and light that it seemeth to melt away while you look; but her eyes are set, and never blink--no,
not when the sun shineth full upon her face. She maketh no steps, but seemeth to swim along
the top of the grass; and her hand, which is stretched out alway, seemeth to point at something
far away, out of sight. It is her continual coming; for she never faileth to meet him, and
to pass on, that hath quenched his spirits; and although he never seeth her by night, yet cannot
he get his natural rest.'

"Thus far the clergyman; whereupon the dinner clock did sound, and we went into the house.
After dinner, when young Master Bligh had withdrawn with his tutor, under excuse of their books,
the parents did forthwith beset me as to my thoughts about their son. Said I, warily, 'The
case is strange, but by no means impossible. It is one that I will study, and fear not to handle,
if the lad will be free with me, and fulfil all that I desire.' The mother was overjoyed, but
I perceived that old Mr Bligh turned pale, and was downcast with some thought which, however,
he did not express. Then they bade that Master Bligh should be called to meet me in the pleasaunce
forthwith. The boy came, and he rehearsed to me his tale with an open countenance, and, withal,
a modesty of speech. Verily he seemed 'ingenui vultus puer ingenuique pudoris.' Then I signified
to him my purpose. 'To-morrow,' said I, 'we will go together to the place; and if, as I doubt
not, the woman shall appear, it will be for me to proceed according to knowledge, and by rules
laid down in my books.'"

The unaltered scenery of the legend still survives, and, like the field of the forty footsteps
in another history, the place is still visited by those who take interest in the supernatural
tales of old. The pathway leads along a moorland waste, where large masses of rock stand up
here and there from the grassy turf, and clumps of heath and gorse weave their tapestry of
golden purple garniture on every side. Amidst all these, and winding along between the rocks,
is a natural footway worn by the scant, rare tread of the village traveller. Just midway, a
somewhat larger stretch than usual of green sod expands, which is skirted by the path, and
which is still identified as the legendary haunt of the phantom, by the name of Parson Rudall's
Ghost.

But we must draw the record of the first interview between the minister and Dorothy from his
own words. "We met," thus he writes, "in the pleasaunce very early, and before any others in
the house were awake; and together the lad and myself proceeded towards the field. The youth
was quite composed, and carried his Bible under his arm, from whence he read to me verses,
which he said he had lately picked out, to have always in his mind. These were Job vii. 14,
'Thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions'; and Deuteronomy xxviii. For
aught I knew this might be a dæmonium meridianum, the most stubborn spirit to govern and guide
that any man can meet, and the most perilous withal. We had hardly reached the accustomed spot,
when we both saw her at once gliding towards us; punctually as the ancient writers describe
the motion of their 'lemures, which swoon along the ground, neither marking the sand nor bending
the herbage.' The aspect of the woman was exactly that which had been related by the lad. There
was the pale and stony face, the strange and misty hair, the eyes firm and fixed, that gazed,
yet not on us, but something that they saw far, far away; one hand and arm stretched out, and
the other grasping the girdle of her waist. She floated along the field like a sail upon a
stream, and glided past the spot where we stood, pausingly. But so deep was the awe that overcame
me, as I stood there in the light of day, face to face with a human soul separate from her
bones and flesh, that my heart and purpose both failed me. I had resolved to speak to the spectre
in the appointed form of words, but I did not. I stood like one amazed and speechless, until
she had passed clean out of sight. One thing remarkable came to pass. A spaniel dog, the favourite
of young Master Bligh, had followed us, and lo! when the woman drew nigh, the poor creature
began to yell and bark piteously, and ran backward and away, like a thing dismayed and appalled.
We returned to the house, and after I had said all that I could to pacify the lad, and to soothe
the aged people, I took my leave for that time, with a promise that when I had fulfilled certain
business elsewhere, which I then alleged, I would return and take orders to assuage these disturbances
and their cause.

"January 7, 1665.--At my own house, I find, by my books, what is expedient to be done; and
then, Apage, Sathanas!

"January 9, 1665.--This day I took leave of my wife and family, under pretext of engagements
elsewhere, and made my secret journey to our diocesan city, wherein the good and venerable
bishop then abode.

"January 10.--Deo gratias, in safe arrival at Exeter; craved and obtained immediate audience
of his lordship; pleading it was for counsel and admonition on a weighty and pressing cause;
called to the presence; made obeisance; and then by command stated my case--the Botathen perplexity--which
I moved with strong and earnest instances and solemn asseverations of that which I had myself
seen and heard. Demanded by his lordship, what was the succour that I had come to entreat at
his hands? Replied, licence for my exorcism, that so I might, ministerially, allay this spiritual
visitant, and thus render to the living and the dead release from this surprise. 'But,' said
our bishop, 'on what authority do you allege that I am intrusted with faculty so to do? Our
Church, as is well known, hath abjured certain branches of her ancient power, on grounds of
perversion and abuse.' 'Nay, my Lord,' I humbly answered, 'under favour, the seventy-second
of the canons ratified and enjoined on us, the clergy, anno Domini 1604, doth expressly provide,
that "no minister, unless he hath the licence of his diocesan bishop, shall essay to exorcise
a spirit, evil or good." Therefore it was,' I did here mildly allege, 'that I did not presume
to enter on such a work without lawful privilege under your lordship's hand and seal.' Hereupon
did our wise and learned bishop, sitting in his chair, condescend upon the theme at some length
with many gracious interpretations from ancient writers and from Holy Scripture, and I did
humbly rejoin and reply, till the upshot was that he did call in his secretary and command
him to draw the aforesaid faculty, forthwith and without further delay, assigning him a form,
insomuch that the matter was incontinently done; and after I had disbursed into the secretary's
hands certain moneys for signitary purposes, as the manner of such officers hath always been,
the bishop did himself affix his signature under the sigillum of his see, and deliver the document
into my hands. When I knelt down to receive his benediction, he softly said, 'Let it be secret,
Mr R. Weak brethren! weak brethren!'"

This interview with the bishop, and the success with which he vanquished his lordship's scruples,
would seem to have confirmed Parson Rudall very strongly in his own esteem, and to have invested
him with that courage which he evidently lacked at his first encounter with the ghost.

The entries proceed: "January 11, 1665.--Therewithal did I hasten home and prepare my instruments,
and cast my figures for the onset of the next day. Took out my ring of brass, and put it on
the index-finger of my right hand, with the scutum Davidis traced thereon.

"January 12, 1665.--Rode into the gateway at Botathen, armed at all points, but not with Saul's
armour, and ready. There is danger from the demons, but so there is in the surrounding air
every day. At early morning then, and alone,--for so the usage ordains,--I betook me towards
the field. It was void, and I had thereby due time to prepare. First, I paced and measured
out my circle on the grass. Then did I mark my pentacle in the very midst, and at the intersection
of the five angles I did set up and fix my crutch of raun (rowan). Lastly, I took my station
south, at the true line of the meridian, and stood facing due north. I waited and watched for
a long time. At last there was a kind of trouble in the air, a soft and rippling sound, and
all at once the shape appeared, and came on towards me gradually. I opened my parchment scroll,
and read aloud the command. She paused, and seemed to waver and doubt; stood still; then I
rehearsed the sentence, sounding out every syllable like a chant. She drew near my ring, but
halted at first outside, on the brink. I sounded again, and now at the third time I gave the
signal in Syriac,--the speech which is used, they say, where such ones dwell and converse in
thoughts that glide.

"She was at last obedient, and swam into the midst of the circle, and there stood still, suddenly.
I saw, moreover, that she drew back her pointing hand. All this while I do confess that my
knees shook under me, and the drops of sweat ran down my flesh like rain. But now, although
face to face with the spirit, my heart grew calm, and my mind was composed. I knew that the
pentacle would govern her, and the ring must bind, until I gave the word. Then I called to
mind the rule laid down of old, that no angel or fiend, no spirit, good or evil, will ever
speak until they have been first spoken to. N.B.--This is the great law of prayer. God Himself
will not yield reply until man hath made vocal entreaty, once and again. So I went on to demand,
as the books advise; and the phantom made answer, willingly. Questioned wherefore not at rest?
Unquiet, because of a certain sin. Asked what, and by whom? Revealed it; but it is sub sigillo,
and therefore nefas dictu; more anon. Inquired, what sign she could give that she was a true
spirit and not a false fiend? Stated, before next Yule-tide a fearful pestilence would lay
waste the land and myriads of souls would be loosened from their flesh, until, as she piteously
said, 'our valleys will be full.' Asked again, why she so terrified the lad? Replied: 'It is
the law; we must seek a youth or a maiden of clean life, and under age, to receive messages
and admonitions.' We conversed with many more words, but it is not lawful for me to set them
down. Pen and ink would degrade and defile the thoughts she uttered, and which my mind received
that day. I broke the ring, and she passed, but to return once more next day. At even-song,
a long discourse with that ancient transgressor, Mr B. Great horror and remorse; entire atonement
and penance; whatsoever I enjoin; full acknowledgment before pardon.

"January 13, 1665.--At sunrise I was again in the field. She came in at once, and, as it seemed,
with freedom. Inquired if she knew my thoughts, and what I was going to relate? Answered, 'Nay,
we only know what we perceive and hear; we cannot see the heart.' Then I rehearsed the penitent
words of the man she had come up to denounce, and the satisfaction he would perform. Then said
she, 'Peace in our midst.' I went through the proper forms of dismissal, and fulfilled all
as it was set down and written in my memoranda; and then, with certain fixed rites, I did dismiss
that troubled ghost, until she peacefully withdrew, gliding towards the west. Neither did she
ever afterward appear, but was allayed until she shall come in her second flesh to the valley
of Armageddon on the last day."

These quaint and curious details from the "diurnal" of a simple-hearted clergyman of the seventeenth
century appear to betoken his personal persuasion of the truth of what he saw and said, although
the statements are strongly tinged with what some may term the superstition, and others the
excessive belief, of those times. It is a singular fact, however, that the canon which authorises
exorcism under episcopal licence is still a part of the ecclesiastical law of the Anglican
Church, although it might have a singular effect on the nerves of certain of our bishops if
their clergy were to resort to them for the faculty which Parson Rudall obtained. The general
facts stated in his diary are to this day matters of belief in that neighbourhood; and it has
been always accounted a strong proof of the veracity of the Parson and the Ghost, that the
plague, fatal to so many thousands, did break out in London at the close of that very year.
We may well excuse a triumphant entry, on a subsequent page of the "diurnal," with the date
of July 10, 1665: "How sorely must the infidels and heretics of this generation be dismayed
when they know that this Black Death, which is now swallowing its thousands in the streets
of the great city, was foretold six months agone, under the exorcisms of a country minister,
by a visible and suppliant ghost! And what pleasures and improvements do such deny themselves
who scorn and avoid all opportunity of intercourse with souls separate, and the spirits, glad
and sorrowful, which inhabit the unseen world!" I looked at it; no one would have taken it
for an apparition.

So we remained, for how long I do not know. I wanted to die.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: The Ghost: a Novel (1911).]

IX

DR DUTHOIT'S VISION

By ARTHUR MACHEN[3]

I knew a fine specimen of an English abbé when I was at school at Hereford. This was Dr Duthoit,
Prebendary of Consumpta per Sabulum in Hereford Cathedral, Rector of St Owen's, bookworm and,
chiefly, rose-grower. He was a middle-aged man when I was a little boy, but he suffered me
to walk with him in his garden sloping down to the Wye, near a pleasaunce of the Vicars Choral,
reciting sometimes the poems of Traherne, which he had in manuscript, but, for the most part,
demonstrating his progress in the art of growing a coal-black rose. This was the true work
of his life, and nearly forty years ago he could show blooms whose copper and crimson tints
were very near to utter darkness. I believe that his ideal was never attained in absolute perfection;
and perhaps the perfect end and attainment of desire do not prove happiness down here below.

After 1880 Prebendary Duthoit and I rarely saw each other, and rarely wrote. He was at rest
among his roses by the quiet Wye, and I dashed to and fro in wilder waters, but each contrived
to let the other know that he was still alive, and so I was not altogether surprised to see
the Prebendary's queer, niggly writing on an envelope a week or two ago. He said he had heard
of a good deal to talk about.... Well, with a popular legend with which I am understood to
be in some way concerned, and he thought that an odd experience of his might possibly interest
me. I do not give the text of his letter, chiefly because it is full of Latin phrases, which
I might be called upon to translate.

But the matter is as follows: On the 4th August, the day of the service at St Paul's, Dr Duthoit
was walking up and down and about that pleasant garden on slopes of the Wye. Just above the
water his gardener had prepared under direction and instruction a plot of ground in a very
special manner. I do not gather the precise purpose of the operation, but it seems that the
soil had been very fine and level for a superficies of about ten yards. To this place the Prebendary
walked, slowly and reflectively, wishing to assure himself that his orders had been accurately
carried out. The plot had been perfectly level the night before, but Dr Duthoit wanted to be
more than sure about it. But to his extreme annoyance, when he turned by the fig-tree, he saw
that the plot was very far from even. He is an old man, but his sight is good, and at a distance
of several yards he could discern quite plainly that there had been mischief. The chosen plot
was in a disgraceful state. At first the Prebendary thought that the Custos' sandy tom-cat
had scaled the wire entanglement on the top of the wall. Then he felt inclined to consider
the ruin done by Scamp, the Bishop's wire-haired fox-terrier, and then, going across, he put
on his spectacles and wondered what had been at work. For the level which had been so carefully
established was all undone. At first the Doctor thought it was the mischief of some random
beast, this confusion of hills and valleys which had taken place of the billiard-table of the
night before. And then it reminded him of the raised maps which he had seen in the Diocesan
Training Schools, and then it reminded him more distinctly of a sort of picture map which had
illustrated his morning paper a day or two before. And then he wondered violently, because
he saw that somebody had, with infinite pains, made this garden plot of his into an exact model
of Gallipoli Peninsula.

It was all so ingenious and perfect that the old clergyman held his wrath for the moment, and
peered into this miniature intricacy of peaks and steeps, and gullies and valleys. He had scarcely
gathered himself together to wonder who had had the ingenious impudence for the mischief, when
amazement once more seized him. For he saw now, stooping down, that this garden Gallipoli was
swarming with life. There were hosts on it and about it, and then Dr Duthoit forgot all about
what we call the realities and facts of life, forgot that this sort of thing does not happen,
and watched what was happening.

He writes that, queerly enough, he lost all sense of size. He was not a Gulliver looking down
upon Lilliput; the mounds ten inches high became to him actual and lofty summits. The tiny
precipices were tremendous. And the red ants swarmed to attack the black ants that held the
heights with savage and desperate fury. He says he panted with excitement as he watched the
courage of the attack and defence, the savagery of the "hand-to-hand" fighting. The black and
red fell by myriads, and the doctor had persuaded himself that he observed amazing incidents
of individual heroism. One particular range seemed to be the especial aim of the red forces,
and they swarmed up victorious and held it for a while, and then retreated. The doctor could
not quite make out the reason of this. He started violently when his man called to him. Roberts
said he had called for five minutes without getting an answer, and that the Dean was in a hurry,
with only five minutes to spare. So the Prebendary went into the house in a kind of dwam, as
the Scots put it, and had no notion of what the Dean had to say; and when he got back to the
garden he found his gardener smoothing the plot with a long rake, and raking in a lot of dead
ants with the mould. The gardener said it was the boys; but the doctor took no notice, and
went to the Custos that night, and the Custos reading his paper a fortnight later began to
think that the old Prebendary was a prophet.

And the Prebendary? He ends his letter: "Quod superius est sicut quod inferius" ("that which
is above is as that which is below"), as the Smaragdine Tablet of Hermes Trismegistus testifies,
and it is my belief that this is a world battle in the sense which we do not appreciate. There
have been some who have held that the earthly conflict is but a reflection of the war in heaven.
What if it be reflected infinitely, if it penetrate to the uttermost depths of creation? And
if a speck of dust be a cosmos--the universe--of revolving worlds? There may be battles between
creatures that no microscope shall ever discover.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: The Little Nations.]

X

THE SEVEN LIGHTS

From WILSON'S "Tales of the Borders"

John M'Pherson was a farmer and grazier in Kintyre--a genuine Highlander. In person, though
of rather low stature than otherwise, he was stout, athletic, and active; bold and fearless
in disposition, warm in temper, friendly, and hospitable--this last to such a degree that his
house was never without as many strangers and visitors of different descriptions, as nearly
doubled his own household.

To the vagrant beggar his house and meal-chest were ever open; and to no one, whatever his
condition, were a night's quarters ever refused. M'Pherson's house, in short, formed a kind
of focus, with a power to draw towards itself all the misery and poverty in the country within
a circle whose diameter might be reckoned at somewhere about twenty miles. The wandering mendicant
made it one of his regular stages, and the traveller of better degree toiled on his way with
increased activity, that he might make it his quarters for the night.

Fortunately for the character and credit of M'Pherson's hospitality, his wife was of an equally
kind and generous disposition with himself; so that his absences from home, which were frequent,
and sometimes long, did not at all affect the treatment of the stranger under his roof, or
make his welcome less cordial.

But the hospitality exercised at Morvane, which was the name of M'Pherson's farm, sometimes,
it must be confessed, led to occasional small depredations--such as the loss of a pair of blankets,
a sheet, or a pair of stockings, carried off by the ungrateful vagabonds whom he sometimes
sheltered. There were, however, one pair of blankets abstracted in this way, that found their
road back to their owner in rather a curious manner.

The morning was thick and misty, when the thief (in the case alluded to) decamped with his
booty, and continued so during the whole day, so that no object, at any distance, however large,
could be seen. After toiling for several hours, under the impression that he was leaving Morvane
far behind, the vagabond, who was also a stranger in the country, approached a house, with
the stolen blankets snugly and carefully bundled on his back, and knocked at the door, with
the view of seeking a night's quarters, as it was now dusk. The door was opened; but by whom,
think you, good reader? Why, by M'Pherson!

The thief, without knowing it, had landed precisely at the point from which he had set out.
Being instantly recognised, he was politely invited to walk in. To this kind invitation, the
thief replied by throwing down the blankets, and taking to his heels--thus making, with his
own hands, a restitution which was very far from being intended. Poor M'Pherson, however, did
not get all his stolen blankets back in this way.

This, however, is a digression. To proceed with our tale. One night, when M'Pherson was absent,
attending a market at some distance, an elderly female appeared at the door, with the usual
demand of a night's lodging, which, with the usual hospitality of Morvane, was at once complied
with. The stranger, who was a remarkably tall woman, was dressed in widow's weeds, and of rather
respectable appearance; her deportment was grave, even stern, and altogether she seemed as
if suffering from some recent affliction.

During the whole of the early part of the evening she sat before the fire, with her face buried
between her hands, heedless of what was passing around her, and was occasionally observed rocking
to and fro, with that kind of motion that bespeaks great internal anguish. It was noticed,
however, that she occasionally stole a look at those who were in the apartment with her; and
it was marked by all (but whether this was merely the effect of imagination, for all felt that
there was something singular and mysterious about the stranger, or was really the case, we
cannot decide) that, in these furtive glances, there was a peculiarly wild and appalling expression.
The stranger spoke none, however, during the whole night; but continued, from time to time,
rocking to and fro in the manner already described. Neither could she be prevailed upon to
partake of any refreshment, although repeatedly pressed to do so. All invitations of this kind
she declined, with a wave of the hand, or a melancholy, yet determined inclination of the head.
In words she made no reply.

The singular conduct of this woman threw a damp over all who were present. They felt chilled,
they knew not how; and were sensible of the influence of an indefinable terror, for which they
could not account. For once, therefore, the feeling of comfort and security, of which all were
conscious who were seated around M'Pherson's cheerful and hospitable hearth, was banished,
and a scene of awe and dread supplied its place.

No one could conjecture who this strange personage was, whence she had come, nor whither she
was going; nor were there any means of acquiring this information, as it was a rule of the
house--one of M'Pherson's special points of etiquette--that no stranger should ever be questioned
on such subjects. All being allowed to depart as they came, without question or inquiry, there
was never anything more known at Morvane, regarding any stranger who visited it, than what
he himself chose to communicate.

Under the painful feelings already described, the inmates of M'Pherson's house found, with
more than usual satisfaction, the hour for retiring to rest arrive. The general attention being
called to this circumstance by the hostess, everyone hastened to his appointed dormitory, with
an alacrity which but too plainly showed how glad they were to escape from the presence of
the mysterious stranger who, however, also retired to bed with the rest. The place appointed
for her to sleep in, was the loft of an outbuilding, as there was no room for her accommodation
within the house itself; all the spare beds being occupied.

We have already said that M'Pherson was from home on the evening of which we are speaking,
attending a market at some distance. He, however, returned shortly after midnight. On arriving
at his own house, he was much surprised, and not a little alarmed, to perceive a window in
one of the outhouses blazing with light (it was that in which the stranger slept), while all
around and within the house was as silent as the tomb. Afraid that some accident from fire
had taken place, he rode up to the building, and standing up in his stirrups--which brought
his head on a level with the window--looked in, when a sight presented itself that made even
the stout heart of M'Pherson beat with unusual violence.

In the middle of the floor, extended on her pallet, lay the mysterious stranger, surrounded
by seven bright and shining lights, arranged at equal distances--three on one side of the bed,
three on the other, and one at the head. M'Pherson gazed steadily at the extraordinary and
appalling sight for a few seconds, when three of the lights suddenly vanished. In an instant
afterwards, two more disappeared, and then another. There was now only that at the head of
the bed remaining. When this light had alone been left, M'Pherson saw the person who lay on
the pallet, raise herself slowly up, and gaze intently on the portentous beam, whose light
showed, to the terrified onlooker, a ghastly and unearthly countenance, surrounded with dishevelled
hair, which hung down in long, thick, irregular masses over her pale, clayey visage, so as
almost to conceal it entirely. This light, like all the others, at length suddenly disappeared,
and with its last gleam the person on the couch sank down with a groan that startled M'Pherson
from the trance of horror into which the extraordinary sight had thrown him. He was a bold
and fearless man, however; and, therefore, though certainly appalled by what he had seen, he
made no outcry, nor evinced any other symptom of alarm. He resolutely and calmly awaited the
conclusion of the extraordinary scene; and when the last light had disappeared, he deliberately
dismounted, led his horse into the stable, put him up, entered the house without disturbing
any one, and slipped quietly into bed, trusting that the morning would bring some explanation
of the mysterious occurrence of the night; but resolving, at the same time that, if it should
not, he would mention the circumstance to no one.

On awaking in the morning, M'Pherson asked his wife what strangers were in the house, and how
they were disposed of, and particularly, who it was that slept in the loft of the outhouse.
He was told that it was a woman in widow's dress, of rather a respectable appearance, but whose
conduct had been very singular. M'Pherson inquired no further, but desired that the woman might
be detained till he should see her, as he wished to speak with her.

On some one of the domestics, however, going up to her apartment, shortly after, to invite
her to breakfast, it was found that she was gone, no one could tell when or where, as her departure
had not been seen by any person about the house.

Baulked in his intention of eliciting some explanation of the extraordinary circumstance of
the preceding night, from the person who seemed to have been a party to it, M'Pherson became
more strengthened in the resolution of keeping the secret to himself, although it made an impression
upon him which all his natural strength of mind could not remove.

At this precise period of our story, M'Pherson had three sons employed in the herring fishing,
a favourite pursuit in its season, because often a lucrative one, of those who live upon or
near the coasts of the West Highlands.

The three brothers had a boat of their own; and, desirous of making their employment as profitable
as possible, they, though in sufficiently good circumstances to have hired assistance, manned
her themselves, and, with laudable industry, performed all the drudgery of their laborious
occupation with their own hands.

Their boat, like all the others employed in the business we are speaking of, by the natives
of the Highlands, was wherry-rigged; her name--she was called after the betrothed of the elder
of the three brothers--The Catherine. The take of herrings, as it is called, it is well known,
appears in different seasons in different places, sometimes in one loch, or arm of the sea,
sometimes in another.

In the season to which our story refers, the fishing was in the sound of Kilbrannan, where
several scores of boats, and amongst those that of the M'Phersons, were busily employed in
reaping the ocean harvest. When the take of herrings appears in this sound, Campbelton Loch,
a well-known harbour on the west coast of Scotland, is usually made the headquarters--a place
of rendezvous of the little herring fleet--and to this loch they always repair when threatened
with a boisterous night, although it was not always that they could, in such circumstances,
succeed in making it.

Such a night as the one alluded to, was that that succeeded the evening on which M'Pherson
saw the strange lights that form the leading feature of our tale. Violent gusts of wind came
in rapid succession down the sound of Kilbrannan; and a skifting rain, flung fitfully but fiercely
from the huge black clouds as they hurried along before the tempest that already raged above,
swept over the face of the angry sea, and seemed to impart an additional bitterness to the
rising wrath of the incipient storm. It was evident, in short, that what sailors call a "dirty
night" was approaching; and, under this impression, the herring boats left their station, and
were seen, in the dusk of the evening in question, hurrying towards Campbelton Loch. But the
storm had arisen in all its fury long before the desired haven could be gained. The little
fleet was dispersed. Some succeeded, however, in making the harbour; others, finding this impossible,
ran in for the Saddle and Carradale shores, and were fortunate enough to effect a landing.
All, in short, with the exception of one single boat, ultimately contrived to gain a place
of shelter of some kind. This unhappy exception was The Catherine. Long after all the others
had disappeared from the face of the raging sea, she was seen struggling alone with the warring
elements, her canvas down to within a few feet of her gunwale, and her keel only at times being
visible. The gallant brothers who manned her, however, had not yet lost either heart or hope,
although their situation at this moment was but too well calculated to deprive them of both.
Gravely and steadily, and in profound silence, they kept each by his perilous post, and endeavoured
to make the land on the Campbelton side; but, finding this impossible, they put about, and
ran before the wind for the island of Arran, which lay at the distance of about eight miles.
But alarmed, as they approached that rugged shore, by the tremendous sea which was breaking
on it, and which would have instantly dashed their frail bark to pieces, they again put about,
and made to windward. While the hardy brothers were thus contending with their fate, a person
mounted on horseback was seen galloping wildly along the Carradale shore, his eyes ever and
anon turned towards the struggling boat with a look of despair and mortal agony. It was M'Pherson,
the hapless father of the unfortunate youths by whom she was manned. There were others, too,
of their kindred, looking, with failing hearts, on the dreadful sight; for all felt that the
unequal contest could not continue long, and that the boat must eventually go down.

Amongst those who were thus watching, with intense interest and speechless agony, the struggle
of the doomed bark, was Catherine, the beloved of the elder of the brothers, who ran, in wild
distraction, along the shore, uttering the most heart-rending cries. "Oh, my Duncan!" she exclaimed,
stretching out her arms towards the pitiless sea. "Oh, my beloved, my dearest, come to me,
or allow me to come to you that I may perish with you!" But Duncan heard her not, although
it was very possible he might see her, as the distance was not great.

There were, at this moment also, several persons on horseback, friends of the young men, galloping
along the shore, from point to point, as the boat varied her direction, in the vain and desperate
hope of being able to render, though they knew not how, some assistance to the sufferers. But
the distracted father, urged on by the wild energy of despair, outrode them all, as they made,
on one occasion, for a rising ground near Carradale, from whence a wider view of the sea could
be commanded. For this height M'Pherson now pushed, and gained it just in time to see his gallant
sons, with their little bark, buried in the waves. He had not taken his station an instant
on the height, when The Catherine went down, and all on board perished.

The distracted father, when he had seen the last of his unfortunate sons, covered his eyes
with his hands, and for a moment gave way to the bitter agony that racked his soul. His manly
breast heaved with emotion, and that most affecting of all sounds, the audible sorrowing of
a strong man, might have been heard at a great distance. It was, however, of short continuance.
M'Pherson prayed to his God to strengthen him in this dread hour of trial, and to enable him
to bear with becoming fortitude the affliction with which it had pleased Him to visit him;
and the distressed man derived comfort from the appeal.

"My brave, my beautiful boys!" he said, "you are now with your God, and have entered, I trust,
on a life of everlasting happiness." Saying this, he rode slowly from the fatal spot from which
he had witnessed the death of his children. It was at this moment, and while musing on the
misfortune that had befallen him, that the strange occurrence of the preceding night recurred,
for the first time, to M'Pherson's mind. It was obtruded on his recollection by the force of
association.

"Can it be possible," he inquired of himself, "that the appearances of last night can have
any connection with the dreadful events of to-day? It must be so," he said; "for three of the
lights of my eyes, three of the guiding stars of my life, have been this day extinguished."
Thus reasoned M'Pherson; and, in the mysterious lights which he had seen, he saw that the doom
of his children had been announced. But there were seven, he recollected, and his heart sunk
within him as he thought of the three gallant boys who were still spared to him. One of them,
the youngest, was at home with himself, the other two were in the Army--soldiers in the 42nd
Regiment, which then boasted of many privates of birth and education. M'Pherson, however, still
kept the appalling secret of the mysterious lights to himself, and determined to await, with
resignation, the fulfilment of the destiny which had been read to him, and which he now felt
convinced to be inevitable.

The gallant regiment to which M'Pherson's sons belonged was, at this period, abroad on active
service. It was in America, and formed a part of the army which was employed in resisting the
encroachments of the French on the British territories in that quarter.

The 42nd had, during the campaigns in the western world of that period--viz. 1754 and 1758,--distinguished
themselves in many a sanguinary contest, for their singular bravery and general good conduct;
and the fame of their exploits rung through their native glens, and was spread far and wide
over their hills and mountains; for dear was the honour of their gallant regiment to the warlike
Highlanders. Many accounts had arrived, from time to time, in the country, of their achievements,
and joyfully were they received. But, on the very day after the loss of The Catherine, a low
murmur began to arise, in that part of the country which is the scene of our story, of some
dreadful disaster having befallen the national regiment. No one could say of what nature this
calamity was; but a buzz went round, whose ominous whispering of fearful slaughter made the
friends of the absent soldiers turn pale. Mothers and sisters wept, and fathers and brothers
looked grave and shook their heads. The rumour bore that, though there had been no loss of
honour, there had been a dreadful loss of life. Nay, it was said that the regiment had made
a mighty acquisition to its fame, but that it had been dearly bought.

At length, however, the truth arrived, in a distinct and intelligible shape. The well-known
and sanguinary affair of Ticonderago had been fought; and, in that murderous contest, the 42nd
Regiment, which had behaved with a gallantry unmatched before in the annals of war, had suffered
dreadfully--no less than forty-three officers, commissioned and non-commissioned, and six hundred
and three privates having been killed and wounded in that corps alone.

To many a heart and home in the Highlands did this disastrous, though glorious intelligence,
bring desolation and mourning; and amongst those on whom it brought these dismal effects, was
M'Pherson of Morvane.

On the third day after the occurrence of the events related at the outset of our narrative,
a letter, which had come, in the first instance, to a gentleman in the neighbourhood, and who
also had a son in the 42nd, was put into M'Pherson's hands, by a servant of the former.

The man looked feelingly grave as he delivered it, and hurried away before it was opened. The
letter was sealed with black wax. Poor M'Pherson's hand trembled as he opened it. It was from
the captain of the company to which his sons belonged, informing him that both had fallen in
the attack on Ticonderago. There was an attempt in the letter to soothe the unfortunate father's
feelings, and to reconcile him to the loss of his gallant boys, in a lengthened detail of their
heroic conduct during the sanguinary struggle. "Nobly," said the writer, "did your two brave
sons maintain the honour of their country in the bloody strife. Both Hugh and Alister fell--their
broadswords in their hands--on the very ramparts of Ticonderago, whither they had fought their
way with a dauntlessness of heart, and a strength of arm, that might have excited the envy
and admiration of the son of Fingal."

In this account of the noble conduct of his sons the broken-hearted father did find some consolation.
"Thank God!" he exclaimed, though in a tremulous voice, "my brave boys have done their duty,
and died as became their name, with their swords in their hands, and their enemies in their
front." But there was one circumstance mentioned in the letter, that affected the poor father
more than all the rest--this was the intimation, that the writer had, in his hands, a sum of
money and a gold brooch, which his son Alister had bequeathed, the first to his father, the
latter to his mother, as a token of remembrance. "These," he said, "had been deposited with
him by the young man previous to the engagement, under a presentiment that he should fall."

When he had finished the perusal of the letter, M'Pherson sought his wife, whom he found weeping
bitterly, for she had already learned the fate of her sons. On entering the apartment where
she was, he flung his arms around her, in an agony of grief, and, choking with emotion, exclaimed,
that two more of his fair lights had been extinguished by the hand of heaven. "One yet remains,"
he said, "but that, too, must soon pass away from before mine eyes. His doom is sealed; but
God's will be done."

"What mean ye, John?" said his sobbing wife, struck with the prophetic tone of his speech--"is
the measure of our sorrows not yet filled? Are we to lose him, too, who is now our only stay,
my fair-haired Ian. Why this foreboding of more evil--and whence have you it, John?" she said,
now looking her husband steadfastly in the face; and with an expression of alarm that indicated
that entire belief in supernatural intelligence regarding coming events, then so general in
the Highlands.

Urged by his wife, who implored him to tell her whence he had the tidings of her Ian's approaching
fate, M'Pherson related to her the circumstance of the mysterious lights.

"But there were seven, John," she said, when he had concluded--"how comes that?--our children
were but six." And immediately added, as if some fearful conviction had suddenly forced itself
on her mind--"God grant that the seventh light may have meant me!"

"God forbid!" exclaimed her husband, on whose mind a similar conviction with that with which
his wife was impressed, now obtruded itself for the first time; that conviction was, that he
himself was indicated by the seventh light. But neither of the sorrowing pair communicated
their fears to the other.

Two days subsequent to this, the fair hair of Ian was seen floating on the surface of a deep
pool, in the water of Bran; a small river that ran past the house of Morvane. By what accident
the poor boy had fallen into the river, was never ascertained. But the pool in which his body
was found was known to have been one of his favourite fishing stations. One only of the mysterious
lights now remained without its counterpart; but this was not long wanting. Ere the week had
expired, M'Pherson was killed by a fall from his horse, when returning from the funeral of
his son, and the symbolical prophecy was fulfilled--and thus concludes the story of "The Seven
Lights."

The old vicarage-house at Talland, as seen from the Looe road, its low roof and grey walls
peeping prettily from between the dense boughs of ash and elm that environed it, was as picturesque
an object as you could desire to see. The seclusion of its situation was enhanced by the character
of the house itself. It was an odd-looking, old-fashioned building, erected apparently in an
age when asceticism and self-denial were more in vogue than at present, with a stern disregard
of the comfort of the inhabitant, and in utter contempt of received principles of taste. As
if not secure enough in its retirement, a high wall, enclosing a courtelage in front, effectually
protected its inmates from the prying passenger, and only revealed the upper part of the house,
with its small Gothic windows, its slated roof, and heavy chimneys partly hidden by the evergreen
shrubs which grew in the enclosure. Such was it until its removal a few years since; and such
was it as it lay sweetly in the shadows of an autumnal evening one hundred and thirty years
ago, when a stranger in the garb of a country labourer knocked hesitatingly at the wicket gate
which conducted to the court. After a little delay a servant-girl appeared, and finding that
the countryman bore a message to the vicar, admitted him within the walls, and conducted him
along a paved passage to the little, low, damp parlour where sat the good man. The Rev. Mr
Dodge was in many respects a remarkable man. You would have judged as much of him as he sat
before the fire in his high-back chair, in an attitude of thought, arranging, it may have been,
the heads of his next Sabbath's discourse. His heavy eyebrows, throwing into shade his spacious
eyes, and indeed the whole contour of his face, marked him as a man of great firmness of character
and of much moral and personal courage. His suit of sober black and full-bottomed periwig also
added to his dignity, and gave him an appearance of greater age. He was then verging on sixty.
The time and the place gave him abundant exercise for the qualities we have mentioned, for
many of his parishioners obtained their livelihood by the contraband trade, and were mostly
men of unscrupulous and daring character, little likely to bear with patience, reflections
on the dishonesty of their calling. Nevertheless the vicar was fearless in reprehending it,
and his frank exhortations were, at least, listened to on account of the simple honesty of
the man, and his well-known kindness of heart. The eccentricity of his life, too, had a wonderful
effect in procuring him the respect, not to say the awe, of a people superstitious in a more
than ordinary degree. Ghosts in those days had more freedom accorded them, or had more business
with the visible world than at present; and the parson was frequently required by his parishioners
to draw from the uneasy spirit the dread secret which troubled it, or by the aid of the solemn
prayers of the church to set it at rest for ever. Mr Dodge had a fame as an exorcist, which
was not confined to the bounds of his parish, nor limited to the age in which he lived.

"Well, my good man, what brings you hither?" said the clergyman to the messenger.

"A letter, may it please your reverence, from Mr Mills of Lanreath," said the countryman, handing
him a letter.

Mr Dodge opened it and read as follows:--

     "MY DEAR BROTHER DODGE,--I have ventured to trouble
     you, at the earnest request of my parishioners, with a matter,
     of which some particulars have doubtless reached you, and which
     has caused, and is causing, much terror in my neighbourhood.
     For its fuller explication, I will be so tedious as to recount
     to you the whole of this strange story as it has reached my
     ears, for as yet I have not satisfied my eyes of its truth. It
     has been told me by men of honest and good report (witnesses of
     a portion of what they relate), with such strong assurances,
     that it behoves us to look more closely into the matter. There
     is in the neighbourhood of this village a barren bit of moor
     which had no owner, or rather more than one, for the lords of
     the adjoining manors debated its ownership between themselves,
     and both determined to take it from the poor, who have for many
     years past regarded it as a common. And truly, it is little to
     the credit of these gentlemen, that they should strive for a
     thing so worthless as scarce to bear the cost of law, and yet
     of no mean value to poor labouring people. The two litigants,
     however, contested it with as much violence as if it had been a
     field of great price, and especially one, an old man, (whose
     thoughts should have been less set on earthly possessions,
     which he was soon to leave,) had so set his heart on the
     success of his suit, that the loss of it, a few years back, is
     said to have much hastened his death. Nor, indeed, after death,
     if current reports are worthy of credit, does he quit his claim
     to it; for at night-time his apparition is seen on the moor,
     to the great terror of the neighbouring villagers. A public
     path leads by at no great distance from the spot, and on divers
     occasions has the labourer, returning from his work, been
     frightened nigh unto lunacy by sight and sounds of a very
     dreadful character. The appearance is said to be that of a man
     habited in black, driving a carriage drawn by headless horses.
     This is, I avow, very marvellous to believe, but it has had so
     much credible testimony, and has gained so many believers in my
     parish, that some steps seem necessary to allay the excitement
     it causes. I have been applied to for this purpose, and my
     present business is to ask your assistance in this matter,
     either to reassure the minds of the country people if it be
     only a simple terror; or, if there be truth in it, to set the
     troubled spirit of the man at rest. My messenger, who is an
     industrious, trustworthy man, will give you more information if
     it be needed, for, from report, he is acquainted with most of
     the circumstances, and will bring back your advice and promise
     of assistance.

     "Not doubting of your help herein, I do with my very hearty
     commendation commit you to God's protection and blessing, and
     am,--Your very loving brother, ABRAHAM MILLS."

This remarkable note was read and re-read, while the countryman sat watching its effects on
the parson's countenance, and was surprised that it changed not from its usual sedate and settled
character. Turning at length to the man, Mr Dodge inquired, "Are you, then, acquainted with
my good friend Mills?"

"I should know him, sir," replied the messenger, "having been sexton to the parish for fourteen
years, and being, with my family, much beholden to the kindness of the rector."

"You are also not without some knowledge of the circumstances related in this letter. Have
you been an eye-witness to any of those strange sights?"

"For myself, sir, I have been on the road at all hours of the night and day, and never did
I see anything which I could call worse than myself. One night my wife and I were awoke by
the rattle of wheels, which was also heard by some of our neighbours, and we are all assured
that it could have been no other than the black coach. We have every day such stories told
in the villages by so many creditable persons, that it would not be proper in a plain, ignorant
man like me to doubt it."

"And how far," asked the clergyman, "is the moor from Lanreath?"

"About two miles, and please your reverence. The whole parish is so frightened, that few will
venture far after nightfall, for it has of late come much nearer the village. A man who is
esteemed a sensible and pious man by many, though an Anabaptist in principle, went a few weeks
back to the moor ('tis called Blackadon) at midnight, in order to lay the spirit, being requested
thereto by his neighbours, and he was so alarmed at what he saw, that he hath been somewhat
mazed ever since."

"A fitting punishment for his presumption, if it hath not quite demented him," said the parson.
"These persons are like those addressed by St Chrysostom, fitly called the golden-mouthed,
who said, 'Miserable wretches that ye be! ye cannot expel a flea, much less a devil!' It will
be well if it serves no other purpose but to bring back these stray sheep to the fold of the
Church. So this story has gained much belief in the parish?"

"Most believe it, sir, as rightly they should, what hath so many witnesses," said the sexton,
"though there be some, chiefly young men, who set up for being wiser than their fathers, and
refuse to credit it, though it be sworn to on the book."

"If those things are disbelieved, friend," said the parson, "and without inquiry, which your
disbeliever is ever the first to shrink from, of what worth is human testimony? That ghosts
have returned to the earth, either for the discovery of murder, or to make restitution for
other injustice committed in the flesh, or compelled thereto by the incantations of sorcery,
or to communicate tidings from another world, has been testified to in all ages, and many are
the accounts which have been left us both in sacred and profane authors. Did not Brutus, when
in Asia, as is related by Plutarch, see----"

Just at this moment the parson's handmaid announced that a person waited on him in the kitchen,--or
the good clergyman would probably have detailed all those cases in history, general and biblical,
with which his reading had acquainted him, not much, we fear to the edification and comfort
of the sexton, who had to return to Lanreath, a long and dreary road, after nightfall. So,
instead, he directed the girl to take him with her, and give him such refreshment as he needed,
and in the meanwhile he prepared a note in answer to Mr Mills, informing him that on the morrow
he was to visit some sick persons in his parish, but that on the following evening he should
be ready to proceed with him to the moor.

On the night appointed the two clergymen left the Lanreath rectory on horseback, and reached
the moor at eleven o'clock. Bleak and dismal did it look by day, but then there was the distant
landscape dotted over with pretty homesteads to relieve its desolation. Now, nothing was seen
but the black patch of sterile moor on which they stood, nothing heard but the wind as it swept
in gusts across the bare hill, and howled dismally through a stunted grove of trees that grew
in a glen below them, except the occasional baying of dogs from the farmhouses in the distance.
That they felt at ease, is more than could be expected of them; but as it would have shown
a lack of faith in the protection of Heaven, which it would have been unseemly in men of their
holy calling to exhibit, they managed to conceal from each other their uneasiness. Leading
their horses, they trod to and fro through the damp fern and heath with firmness in their steps,
and upheld each other by remarks on the power of that Great Being whose ministers they were,
and the might of whose name they were there to make manifest. Still slowly and dismally passed
the time as they conversed, and anon stopped to look through the darkness for the approach
of their ghostly visitor. In vain. Though the night was as dark and murky as ghost could wish,
the coach and its driver came not.

After a considerable stay, the two clergymen consulted together, and determined that it was
useless to watch any longer for that night, but that they would meet on some other, when perhaps
it might please his ghostship to appear. Accordingly, with a few words of leave-taking, they
separated, Mr Mills for the rectory, and Mr Dodge, by a short ride across the moor, which shortened
his journey by half a mile, for the vicarage at Talland.

The vicar rode on at an ambling pace, which his good mare sustained up hill and down vale without
urging. At the bottom of a deep valley, however, about a mile from Blackadon, the animal became
very uneasy, pricked up her ears, snorted, and moved from side to side of the road, as if something
stood in the path before her. The parson tightened the reins, and applied whip and spur to
her sides, but the animal, usually docile, became very unruly, made several attempts to turn,
and, when prevented, threw herself upon her haunches. Whip and spur were applied again and
again, to no other purpose than to add to the horse's terror. To the rider nothing was apparent
which could account for the sudden restiveness of his beast. He dismounted, and attempted in
turns to lead or drag her, but both were impracticable, and attended with no small risk of
snapping the reins. She was remounted with great difficulty, and another attempt was made to
urge her forward, with the like want of success. At length the eccentric clergyman, judging
it to be some special signal from Heaven, which it would be dangerous to neglect, threw the
reins on the neck of his steed, which, wheeling suddenly round, started backward in a direction
towards the moor, at a pace which rendered the parson's seat neither a pleasant nor a safe
one. In an astonishingly short space of time they were once more at Blackadon.

By this time the bare outline of the moor was broken by a large black group of objects, which
the darkness of the night prevented the parson from defining. On approaching this unaccountable
appearance, the mare was seized with fresh fury, and it was with considerable difficulty that
she could be brought to face this new cause of fright. In the pauses of the horse's prancing,
the vicar discovered to his horror the much-dreaded spectacle of the black coach and the headless
steeds, and, terrible to relate, his friend Mr Mills lying prostrate on the ground before the
sable driver. Little time was left him to call up his courage for this fearful emergency; for
just as the vicar began to give utterance to the earnest prayers which struggled to his lips,
the spectre shouted, "Dodge is come! I must begone!" and forthwith leaped into his chariot,
and disappeared across the moor.

The fury of the mare now subsided, and Mr Dodge was enabled to approach his friend, who was
lying motionless and speechless, with his face buried in the heather.

Meanwhile the rector's horse, which had taken fright at the apparition, and had thrown his
rider to the ground on or near the spot where we have left him lying, made homeward at a furious
speed, and stopped not until he had reached his stable door. The sound of his hoofs as he galloped
madly through the village awoke the cottagers, many of whom had been some hours in their beds.
Many eager faces, staring with affright, gathered round the rectory, and added, by their various
conjectures, to the terror and apprehensions of the family.

The villagers, gathering courage as their numbers increased, agreed to go in search of the
missing clergyman, and started off in a compact body, a few on horseback, but the greater number
on foot, in the direction of Blackadon. There they discovered their rector, supported in the
arms of Parson Dodge, and recovered so far as to be able to speak. Still there was a wildness
in his eye, and an incoherency in his speech, that showed that his reason was, at least, temporarily
unsettled by the fright. In this condition he was taken to his home, followed by his reverend
companion.

Here ended this strange adventure; for Mr Mills soon completely regained his reason, Parson
Dodge got safely back to Talland, and from that time to this nothing has been heard or seen
of the black ghost or his chariot.[4]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: The Parson Dodge, whose adventure is related, was vicar of Talland from 1713 till
his death. So that the name as well as the story is true to tradition. Bond (History of East
and West Looe) says of him: "About a century since the Rev. Richard Dodge was vicar of this
parish of Talland, and was, by traditionary account, a very singular man. He had the reputation
of being deeply skilled in the black art, and would raise ghosts, or send them into the Dead
Sea, at the nod of his head. The common people, not only in his own parish, but throughout
the neighbourhood, stood in the greatest awe of him, and to meet him on the highway at midnight
produced the utmost horror; he was then driving about the evil spirits; many of them were seen,
in all sorts of shapes, flying and running before him, and he pursuing them with his whip in
a most daring manner. Not unfrequently he would be seen in the churchyard at dead of night
to the terror of passers-by.

Sir Francis, according to tradition, was enabled to destroy the Spanish Armada by the aid of
the devil. The old admiral went to Devil's Point, a well-known promontory jutting into Plymouth
Sound. He there cut pieces of wood into the water, and by the power of magic and the assistance
of his demon these became at once well-armed gunboats.

Queen Elizabeth gave Sir Francis Drake Buckland Abbey; and on every hand we hear of Drake and
his familiars.

An extensive building attached to the abbey--which was no doubt used as barns and stables after
the place had been deprived of its religious character--was said to have been built by the
devil in three nights.

Drake constructed the channel, carrying the waters from Dartmoor to Plymouth. Tradition says
he went with his demon to Dartmoor, walked into Plymouth, and the waters followed him. Even
now--as old Betty Donithorne, formerly the housekeeper at Buckland Abbey, told me,--if the
warrior hears the drum which hangs in the hall of the abbey, and which accompanied him round
the world, he rises and has a revel. This was to be sent to the residence of the inheritor
of this property. The carriage was at the abbey door, and a man easily lifted the box into it.

XIII

THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM

By WILLIAM HUNT

Long, long ago a farmer named Lenine lived in Boscean. He had but one son, Frank Lenine, who
was indulged into waywardness by both his parents. In addition to the farm servants, there
was one, a young girl, Nancy Trenoweth, who especially assisted Mrs Lenine in all the various
duties of a small farmhouse.

Nancy Trenoweth was very pretty, and although perfectly uneducated, in the sense in which we
now employ the term education, she possessed many native graces, and she had acquired much
knowledge, really useful to one whose aspirations would probably never rise higher than to
be mistress of a farm of a few acres. Educated by parents who had certainly never seen the
world beyond Penzance, her ideas of the world were limited to a few miles around the Land's-End.
But although her book of nature was a small one, it had deeply impressed her mind with its
influences. The wild waste, the small but fertile valley, the rugged hills, with their crowns
of cairns, the moors rich in the golden furze and the purple heath, the sea-beaten cliffs and
the silver sands, were the pages she had studied, under the guidance of a mother who conceived,
in the sublimity of her ignorance, that everything in nature was the home of some spirit form.
The soul of the girl was imbued with the deeply religious dye of her mother's mind, whose religion
was only a sense of an unknown world immediately beyond our own. The elder Nancy Trenoweth
exerted over the villagers around her considerable power. They did not exactly fear her. She
was too free from evil for that; but they were conscious of a mental superiority, and yielded
without complaining to her sway.

The result of this was, that the younger Nancy, although compelled to service, always exhibited
some pride, from a feeling that her mother was a superior woman to any around her.

She never felt herself inferior to her master and mistress, yet she complained not of being
in subjection to them. There were so many interesting features in the character of this young
servant girl that she became in many respects like a daughter to her mistress. There was no
broad line of division in those days, in even the manorial hall, between the lord and his domestics,
and still less defined was the position of the employer and the employed in a small farmhouse.
Consequent on this condition of things, Frank Lenine and Nancy were thrown as much together
as if they had been brother and sister. Frank was rarely checked in anything by his over-fond
parents, who were especially proud of their son, since he was regarded as the handsomest young
man in the parish. Frank conceived a very warm attachment for Nancy, and she was not a little
proud of her lover. Although it was evident to all the parish that Frank and Nancy were seriously
devoted to each other, the young man's parents were blind to it, and were taken by surprise
when one day Frank asked his father and mother to consent to his marrying Nancy.

The Lenines had allowed their son to have his own way from his youth up; and now, in a matter
which brought into play the strongest of human feelings, they were angry because he refused
to bend to their wills.

The old man felt it would be a degradation for a Lenine to marry a Trenoweth, and, in the most
unreasoning manner, he resolved it should never be.

The first act was to send Nancy home to Alsia Mill, where her parents resided; the next was
an imperious command to his son never again to see the girl.

The commands of the old are generally powerless upon the young where the affairs of the heart
are concerned. So were they upon Frank. He who was rarely seen of an evening beyond the garden
of his father's cottage, was now as constantly absent from his home. The house, which was wont
to be a pleasant one, was strangely altered. A gloom had fallen over all things; the father
and son rarely met as friends--the mother and her boy had now a feeling of reserve. Often there
were angry altercations between the father and son, and the mother felt she could not become
the defender of her boy, in his open acts of disobedience, his bold defiance of his parents'
commands.

Rarely an evening passed that did not find Nancy and Frank together in some retired nook. The
Holy Well was a favourite meeting-place, and here the most solemn vows were made. Locks of
hair were exchanged; a wedding-ring, taken from the finger of a corpse, was broken, when they
vowed that they would be united either dead or alive; and they even climbed at night the granite-pile
at Treryn, and swore by the Logan Rock the same strong vow.

Time passed onward unhappily, and as the result of the endeavours to quench out the passion
by force, it grew stronger under the repressing power, and, like imprisoned steam, eventually
burst through all restraint.

Nancy's parents discovered at length that moonlight meetings between two untrained, impulsive
youths, had a natural result, and they were now doubly earnest in their endeavours to compel
Frank to marry their daughter.

The elder Lenine could not be brought to consent to this, and he firmly resolved to remove
his son entirely from what he considered the hateful influences of the Trenoweths. He resolved
to go to Plymouth, to take his son with him, and, if possible, to send him away to sea, hoping
thus to wean him from his folly, as he considered this love-madness. Frank, poor fellow, with
the best intentions, was not capable of any sustained effort, and consequently he at length
succumbed to his father; and, to escape his persecution, he entered a ship bound for India,
and bade adieu to his native land.

Frank could not write, and this happened in days when letters could be forwarded only with
extreme difficulty, consequently Nancy never heard from her lover.

A babe had been born into a troublesome world, and the infant became a real solace to the young
mother. As the child grew, it became an especial favourite with its grandmother; the elder
Nancy rejoiced over the little prattler, and forgot her cause of sorrow. Young Nancy lived
for her child, and on the memory of its father. Subdued in spirit she was, but her affliction
had given force to her character, and she had been heard to declare that wherever Frank might
be, she was ever present with him, whatever might be the temptations of the hour, that her
influence was all powerful over him for good. She felt that no distance could separate their
souls, that no time could be long enough to destroy the bond between them.

A period of distress fell upon the Trenoweths, and it was necessary that Nancy should leave
her home once more, and go again into service. Her mother took charge of the babe, and she
found a situation in the village of Kimyall, in the parish of Paul. Nancy, like her mother,
contrived by force of character to maintain an ascendancy amongst her companions. She had formed
an acquaintance, which certainly never grew into friendship, with some of the daughters of
the small farmers around. These girls were all full of the superstitions of the time and place.

The winter was coming on, and nearly three years had passed away since Frank Lenine left his
country. As yet there was no sign. Nor father, nor mother, nor maiden had heard of him, and
they all sorrowed over his absence. The Lenines desired to have Nancy's child, but the Trenoweths
would not part with it. They went so far even as to endeavour to persuade Nancy to live again
with them, but Nancy was not at all disposed to submit to their wishes.

It was All-Hallows' eve, and two of Nancy's companions persuaded her,--no very difficult task,--to
go with them and sow hemp-seed.

At midnight the three maidens stole out unperceived into Kimyall town-place to perform their
incantation. Nancy was the first to sow, the others being less bold than she.

Boldly she advanced, saying, as she scattered the seed,--

    "Hemp-seed I sow thee,
    Hemp-seed grow thee;
    And he who will my true love be,
    Come after me
    And shaw thee."

This was repeated three times, when, looking back over her left shoulder, she saw Lenine; but
he looked so angry that she shrieked with fear, and broke the spell. One of the other girls,
however, resolved now to make trial of the spell, and the result of her labours was the vision
of a white coffin. Fear now fell on all, and they went home sorrowful, to spend, each one,
a sleepless night.

November came with its storms, and during one terrific night a large vessel was thrown upon
the rocks in Bernowhall Cliff, and, beaten by the impetuous waves, she was soon in pieces.
Amongst the bodies of the crew washed ashore, nearly all of whom had perished, was Frank Lenine.
He was not dead when found, but the only words he lived to speak were begging the people to
send for Nancy Trenoweth, that he might make her his wife before he died.

Rapidly sinking, Frank was borne by his friends on a litter to Boscean, but he died as he reached
the town-place. His parents, overwhelmed in their own sorrows, thought nothing of Nancy, and
without her knowing that Lenine had returned, the poor fellow was laid in his last bed, in
Burian Churchyard.

On the night of the funeral, Nancy went, as was her custom, to lock the door of the house,
and as was her custom too, she looked out into the night. At this instant a horseman rode up
in hot haste, called her by name, and hailed her in a voice that chilled her blood.

The voice was the voice of Lenine. She could never forget that; and the horse she now saw was
her sweetheart's favourite colt, on which he had often ridden at night to Alsia.

The rider was imperfectly seen; but he looked very sorrowful, and deathly pale, still Nancy
knew him to be Frank Lenine.

He told her that he had just arrived home, and that the first moment he was at liberty he had
taken horse to fetch his loved one, and to make her his bride.

Nancy's excitement was so great, that she was easily persuaded to spring on the horse behind
him, that they might reach his home before the morning.

When she took Lenine's hand a cold shiver passed through her, and as she grasped his waist
to secure herself in her seat, her arm became as stiff as ice. She lost all power of speech,
and suffered deep fear, yet she knew not why. The moon had arisen, and now burst out in a full
flood of light, through the heavy clouds which had obscured it. The horse pursued its journey
with great rapidity, and whenever in weariness it slackened its speed, the peculiar voice of
the rider aroused its drooping energies. Beyond this no word was spoken since Nancy had mounted
behind her lover. They now came to Trove Bottom, where there was no bridge at that time; they
dashed into the river. The moon shone full in their faces. Nancy looked into the stream, and
saw that the rider was in a shroud and other grave-clothes. She now knew that she was being
carried away by a spirit, yet she had no power to save herself; indeed, the inclination to
do so did not exist.

On went the horse at a furious pace, until they came to the blacksmith's shop, near Burian
Church-town, when she knew by the light from the forge fire thrown across the road that the
smith was still at his labours. She now recovered speech. "Save me! save me! save me!" she
cried with all her might. The smith sprang from the door of the smithy, with a red-hot iron
in his hand, and as the horse rushed by, caught the woman's dress, and pulled her to the ground.
The spirit, however, also seized Nancy's dress in one hand, and his grasp was like that of
a vice. The horse passed like the wind, and Nancy and the smith were pulled down as far as
the old Alms-houses, near the churchyard. Here the horse for a moment stopped. The smith seized
that moment, and with his hot iron burned off the dress from the rider's hand, thus saving
Nancy, more dead than alive; while the rider passed over the wall of the churchyard, and vanished
on the grave in which Lenine had been laid but a few hours before.

The smith took Nancy into his shop, and he soon aroused some of his neighbours, who took the
poor girl back to Alsia. Her parents laid her on her bed. She spoke no word, but to ask for
her child, to request her mother to give up her child to Lenine's parents, and her desire to
be buried in his grave. Before the morning light fell on the world Nancy had breathed her last
breath.

A horse was seen that night to pass through the Church-town like a ball from a musket, and
in the morning Lenine's colt was found dead in Bernowhall Cliff, covered with foam, its eyes
forced from its head, and its swollen tongue hanging out of its mouth. On Lenine's grave was
found the piece of Nancy's dress which was left in the spirit's hand when the smith burnt her
from his grasp.

It is said that one or two of the sailors who survived the wreck related after the funeral,
how, on the 30th of October, at night, Lenine was like one mad; they could scarcely keep him
in the ship. He seemed more asleep than awake, and, after great excitement, he fell as if dead
upon the deck, and lay so for hours. When he came to himself, he told them that he had been
taken to the village of Kimyall, and that if he ever married the woman who had cast the spell,
he would make her suffer the longest day she had to live for drawing his soul out of his body.

Poor Nancy was buried in Lenine's grave, and her companion in sowing hemp-seed, who saw the
white coffin, slept beside her within the year.

XIV

THE POOL IN THE GRAVEYARD

By GREVILLE MACDONALD[5]

By this corner of the graveyard the red dawn discovered to Jonas a little pool of clear water,
with mosses and parsley-ferns all around it, and so clear and cool-looking that he must drink.
The larger part of it was still shadowed by the wall. On knees and hands, he put his lips to
it and drank. The refreshment was wonderful. He rose with a sense that he should find the lost
sheep yet and bring her home. He looked down once more into the clear pool. It was wider than
he had thought--indeed, he had been mistaken; it was a great tarn on the mountain-side! Then
he saw that wonderful things were happening on the face of and all round the water. What appeared
to be little glow-worms were lying motionless in groups on the mosses in a still-shadowed region
by the side of the water. From beneath a low arch in the wall, where the water was slowly flowing
away in a river, there came, against stream and wave and wind, a fishing-boat. Its great red
sail was spread, and its pennant shone silvery blue in the sun. It came alongside a pier of
mossy stones, and cast anchor. From it leapt twelve strong young fishermen, all with bright
faces. They took up the little creatures with the glowing lights, and carried them aboard;
then back again to other groups, until all were gathered in. For they were all sleeping human
forms, close-wrapped in grave-clothes, but with their light still living, as might be seen
by anyone who had suffered. When all were safe aboard, the men cast off and the boat disappeared
under the arch. He maintained a profound silence--but it was not the silence of peace or reflection.

The shock produced by his death struck the miserable woman into the utter darkness of settled
derangement. She survived him some years, but wandered about through the province, still, according
to the superstitious belief of the people, tormented by the terrible enmity of the Lianhan Shee.

XVI

THE HAUNTED COVE

By SIR GEORGE DOUGLAS, Bart.

Commonplace in itself and showing positive vulgarity in the style in which its pleasure-grounds
are laid out, Clyffe, near Berwick-on-Tweed, has yet one delightful feature of its own,--to
wit, a private bay to which access is obtained by a tunnel seventy or eighty yards long, cut
through the soft formation of the cliff from the sloping gardens above. The result is that,
if you are a visitor at Clyffe, you have your own private bathing ground, your own private
beach where the children may play, without fear of being encroached upon, unless, indeed, a
boat should be run in among the rocks from seaward. In the early nineties of the last century,
the only daughter of the house of Clyffe was engaged to be married to a young officer quartered
at the military depot at Berwick. They were a blameless but not particularly interesting couple,
and one of their hobbies was to meet and promenade on the smooth sands of Clyffe bay in the
brilliant autumn moonlight. In order to prevent possible intrusion from the sea, the seaward
end of the tunnel was closed by a heavy iron gate, and upon the inner side of this gate the
Lieutenant was to wait until his fiancée should steal forth bringing with her the key which
should give access to the beach. It was all very foolish and romantic, no doubt, for they might
have met just as conveniently in the conservatory of Clyffe House, where their privacy would
have been equally respected, and where Miss Alix's satin shoes and diaphanous draperies would
have exposed her to no risk of a chill. Lovers are like that, however, and had they not been
so on this occasion, I should have had no story to tell.

Like the exemplary swain he was, Dick arrived early at the rendezvous,--that is to say, early
in respect to the time agreed upon, though, as a matter of fact, it was nearly eleven o'clock.
There he lit a cigarette, and approaching the heavy iron bars of the locked gate, looked forth
upon the peaceful scene beyond. It was a perfect night, the harvest moon riding through fleecy
cloud aloft, whilst the breaking of the sea between the rocky points to right and left was
soothing in its gentle iteration. Dick had been on parade extremely early that morning, and,
tell it not in Gath! his eyes involuntarily closed. Starting awake again, he saw with surprise
that, though Alix had not yet come forward, he was no longer alone. No! the sacred beach had
been invaded, and a female figure clad in light draperies was pacing slowly in the moonlight
betwixt himself and the distant rocks. Who on earth could she be, and how had she got there?
were the questions he asked himself, his first sensation being one of annoyance at so unexpected
and so ill-timed an intrusion. But as the moments passed and the figure came more clearly into
view, impatience gave way to curiosity, and curiosity to something like awe.

What he saw was the tall and slender form of a young girl whose hands were clasped in front
of her, and whose eyes were fixed on the ground in a pensive, not to say sorrowful, attitude.
Clear as was the moonlight, at least in the intervals of the moon's passage through the broken
clouds, her features were not plainly visible; but her every movement was instinct with grace.
What could she be doing there? Under other circumstances, possibly Dick might have felt inclined
to pass the gate and himself step forth on to the sands. But, besides that the gate was locked,
he gradually became conscious of a singular delicacy or unwillingness to intrude upon the privacy
of this solitary, inexplicable, and impressive figure. He was content, therefore, to watch
her noiseless progress, and, as he did so, even his untrained masculine eye seemed to note
something unusual--out of date, it might be--in the fashion of her garments. So perhaps might
some old-world portrait have appeared, had it stept down from its frame against the wall. This,
however, stirred him little. What he was not prepared for was the gesture of anguish, nay,
of positive despair, with which, when about opposite him, the figure threw her head back and
her arms aloft, as if in mute and agonised appeal to Heaven. The action was heart-rending even
to look on; nor, to a male eye, did it lose aught from the fact that, as the moonlight now
fell for the first time on her upturned face, it showed it to be deathly pale indeed, but also
exquisitely lovely. Another moment or two, and the graceful and appealing form had passed beyond
his field of vision, for, as the locked gate stood some little way back from the mouth of the
tunnel, his view was restricted.

A short time only, though he knew not exactly how long, had passed when Alix stood beside him.

"I had some difficulty," she archly explained, "in eluding prying eyes."

For an ardent lover, Dick's greetings were perfunctory; after which, being still powerfully
under the impression of what he had just seen, he told Alix all about it.

"We shall soon see who she is," replied that practical young lady, as she placed the heavy
key in the cumbrous lock, "and I shall also take leave to inform her that this bit of coast
is strictly private."

And strictly private it appeared to be when they emerged from the tunnel. For though their
eyes swept the beach to right and left, and though the moon just then was unobscured, they
saw no trace of any living form.

"She must have landed from a boat," said Alix; but as little trace of a boat could they discover.

Still it was quite possible that she might pass unobserved against the dark rocks, so they
turned first to the right, then to the left, keeping a keen look-out for any sign of motion.

They detected nothing.

And by this time I am bound to confess that a slightly uncomplimentary suspicion had more than
once crossed the brain of Alix. She knew that, as a rule, her Dick was a pattern of moderation.
But even the most prudent may be liable to be occasionally overtaken. And she recalled his
having mentioned that this was to be a guest-night at the mess. Indeed, it was chiefly upon
that account that the assignation had been fixed so late. This present portentous solemnity
was certainly most unlike him. Was it possible that the poor fellow had taken just one more
whisky-and-soda than he could conveniently carry? Outspoken by nature, she blurted out her
suspicion, which was strengthened rather than the reverse by the great earnestness with which
he repelled it.

Less convinced than before, Alix then exclaimed: "Look here, Dick! If, as you say, the young
woman passed this way, she must have left tracks on the smooth sand. Where do you say the place
was?"

With some uncertainty, Dick then led her to what he took to be the place. No tracks were there.
He then tried further back from the mouth of the tunnel, and with as little success. It was
true the tide was coming up, but it could scarcely yet have reached footmarks which had been
imprinted so far inshore as he supposed these to have been.

In a spirit of levity which jarred on him, Alix now recommended her lover to go back to his
quarters and have a good sleep; and then, having again passed through the gate and pushed their
way up the tunnel, the two young people parted in something very like a tiff.

Dick did not call at Clyffe House the next day, and when he called on the day following, Alix
met him in a complaisant mood. After all, she had no wish to quarrel with him. And very soon
she said, "Going back to what you told me you had seen the other night, Dick, it occurred to
me, after you were gone, that it fits in rather curiously with an old story connected with
this place." And then, at his request, she proceeded to tell him how, some thirty years ago,
her grandmother had had a favourite maid, a friendless orphan girl named Barbara, to whom attached
a mystery. Barbara was a very lovely creature of refinement and education above her station,
and she had of course numerous admirers. Young as she was, her discretion was faultless, with
the sole exception that her native amiability and desire to please sometimes betrayed her into
conduct which meant less than her admirers wished to think it did. Well, at last Barbara became
plighted to a respectable young fisherman, part-owner of a boat sailing from The Greenses,
and, though details were vague, it was generally understood that, as a consequence, several
hearts were severely damaged. As Barbara had no relatives, it was arranged by her employer
that she should remain in her situation until the wedding-day and should be married from Clyffe
House. Considerable preparations had also been made to do honour to the occasion, when--judge
of the consternation of the inmates of the house!--upon the morning of the wedding-day Barbara
was not to be found. She was believed to have retired to rest on the previous night as usual,
yet her bed had not been slept in. Nor, although most of her clothes were packed in anticipation
of her change of domicile, had she apparently taken anything with her. Nothing in the least
unusual had been observed in her demeanour; nor could the unhappy bridegroom suggest any possible
motive for her conduct. Exhaustive inquiries and exhaustive search were made; but, to cut the
story short, nothing had ever again been seen or heard of the fair Barbara to that day. Her
mistress, who had been sincerely attached to her, had long mourned for her, and in after times
would often sing her praises. But, in order to be quite candid, it must be acknowledged that
there were others, not a few, who declined to believe that the girl had come to an untimely
end; and, who, knowing that she had several suitors, and had sometimes appeared uncertain which
to favour, preferred to think that she had changed her mind at the last moment, and, deciding
to throw over her fisherman, had made her escape from Clyffe House during the night to join
some more eligible swain. This would have been a desperate step indeed; nor could her conduct
in withholding subsequent explanations be absolved of heartlessness. But, after all, she was
the sort of girl who, where no actual misconduct was involved, might easily allow herself to
be over-persuaded. And certainly the tangled skein of love does sometimes present a knot which
must be cut rather than untied.

The Lieutenant professed himself profoundly interested in this narrative, which he and Alix
then proceeded to discuss in all its bearings, and more particularly, of course, in its relation
to the figure seen by him in the cove. It is true that Alix never quite believed in the genuineness
of the apparition; but, seeing that Dick really wished to have it taken seriously, she decided
tactfully to humour him, and made quite a nine days' wonder of the mysterious occurrence. Their
own wedding-day was, however, fast drawing on, so they soon found other things to talk and
think of. To be brief, they were in due course married, and, amid the cares and pleasures of
wedded life, the story, though not forgotten, came to be very seldom referred to. So twenty
years passed; at the end of which time the Colonel (as he now was), accompanied by his wife
and several youngsters, paid one of his not very frequent visits to his wife's parents at Clyffe
House.

On the first night of the visit, after dinner, Alix's father had significantly recalled the
story of the maid Barbara's disappearance, and, after stating that the mystery had now been
finally cleared up, had gone on to relate the following particulars:--A few days previously
there had lain at the point of death in the infirmary at Berwick an aged fisherman, who had
long been known in the seaport town for his solitary habits and morose and violent ways. As
death drew near, it became evident that his mind was sorely troubled, and to one of the nurses
or doctors who had sought to comfort him he had been led to make the acknowledgment that a
guilty secret weighed upon his soul, making him fearful to confront his Maker. He then told
how, as a young man, he had passionately loved a pretty servant-girl employed at Clyffe House.
Misled by those smiles and that graciousness of manner which in the guileless amiability of
her nature the girl lavished upon all alike, he had for a moment imagined himself her favoured
suitor. How bitter, then, was the blow, and how rude the awakening when he learned that a younger
brother of his own, a mere boy, was preferred before himself! Nor was it only unrequited love
that grieved him. No, he believed, or managed to persuade himself, that an unfair advantage
had been taken of him, by which he had been made the lovers' dupe. A silent man, he took no
one into his confidence, but abode his time until the eve of the wedding-day. On that day he
had accidentally intercepted a note from the girl Barbara, addressed to his brother, in which
she had agreed to meet her bridegroom of the morrow in the cove below Clyffe House one hour
before midnight, to spend a final hour together before the momentous crisis in their lives.
Instantly it had occurred to the elder brother to use the knowledge gained from the note in
order to make one last desperate appeal on his own account to the sweet girl he loved so madly.
Accordingly he kept back the missive, and, to make assurance doubly sure, mixed a soporific
drug with his brother's drink when the latter came in from fishing. Then, whilst the youngster
slumbered heavily, he himself embarked in a cockle-boat and, unobserved, rowed quietly round
the headland, into Clyffe cove, where he ran his boat into a safe creek he knew of, and jumped
ashore. Poor Barbara had come down to the water's edge to meet the boat, and great was her
consternation on finding herself confronted by the wrong brother.

Then an impassioned scene was enacted, in which the seaman used every means of persuasion known
to him to get the girl to give up his brother and plight herself to him. But though alternately
distressed and terrified, Barbara had stood her ground, and, gentle and yielding though she
appeared to be, neither threats nor vows had had the slightest effect upon her constancy. And
then, of a sudden, the reckless brother had "seen red." If he could not have this girl to wife,
then neither should another, and a moment later her white form lay stretched upon the dark
rocks at his feet.

The sight brought him to himself. There was no room for doubt that life was extinct; and if
he was to escape suspicion, he must act at once, for the summer night was short and the dread
interview had lasted long. He accordingly placed the body in the boat, and, having collected
several heavy stones, proceeded to make use of his seacraft by binding them closely and firmly
about the poor girl's body by means of her clothing. Then he rowed out to sea, some mile or
more, and there quietly dropped the body overboard. Such, in essentials, was the story told
by the dying fisherman, and so it had come about that the bride of that fatal morning was never
seen or heard of more. Though possibly intended to be regarded as confidential, certain it
is that the confession had leaked out, and very soon became public property. For a few days
it attracted great attention; and then, like other more important things which had preceded
it, it ceased, save very occasionally, to be alluded to at all. But the Colonel never forgot
it, any more than he ever forgot the lovely and inexplicable vision which had appeared to him
for so brief an interval, in the moonlight, on the shore below Clyffe House. It is true that
he seldom referred to it. Nor did that stately dame, who had once been Miss Alix and who was
now believed to command the regiment, encourage him to do so. For she had observed that he
was always most ready to tell the story after an exceptionally good dinner. And, with her high
sense of what was due to his rank, she fancied that it made him mildly ridiculous. Neither,
it might be, had her earliest doubts been ever wholly laid to rest. But members of the fair
sex, when they are practical, are apt to be very practical indeed. He might else have been
charged for a warlock. There is a print of it given by Slezer in Charles II.'s reign--by which
it appears to have been anciently much more extensive, being a large quadrangular mass of buildings,
having two courts in front, with a tower in each, and gateway through below them; and on the
northern side was the principal tower, which now constitutes the central portion of the present
castle upwards of 100 feet in height. The building received the addition of a tower, in one
of its angles, for a spiral staircase from bottom to top, with conical roofs. The wings were
added, at the same time, by Patrick Earl of Strathmore, who repaired and modernised the structure,
under the directions of Inigo Jones. One of the wings has been renovated within the last forty
years, and other additions made, but not in harmony with Earl Patrick's repairs.

"There is also a secret room in it, only known to two or at most three individuals, at the
same time, who are bound not to reveal it, unless to their successors in the secret. It has
been frequently the object of search with the inquisitive, but the search has been in vain.
There are no records of the castle prior to the tenth century, when it is first noticed in
connection with the death of Malcolm II. in 1034. Tradition says that he was murdered in this
castle, and in a room which is still pointed out, in the centre of the principal tower; and
that the murderers lost their way in the darkness of the night, and by the breaking of the
ice, were drowned in the loch of Forfar. Fordun's account is, however, somewhat different and
more probable. He states that the King was mortally wounded in a skirmish, in the neighbourhood,
by some of the adherents of Kenneth V."

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us turn now to the ghosts of Glamis Castle. This fact, whatever it may be worth, is absolutely
established, so far as the testimony of a single witness can establish anything. The lady was
awakened by a loud knocking and hammering, as if somebody were putting up a scaffold, and the
noise did not alarm her in the least. On the contrary, she took it for an accident, due to
the presumed matutinal habits of the people. She knew, of course, that there were stories about
Glamis, but had not the remotest idea that the hammering she had heard was connected with any
story. She had regarded it simply as an annoyance, and was glad to get to sleep after an unrestful
time; but had no notion of the noise being supernatural until informed of it at the breakfast-table.

With what particular event in the stormy annals of the Lyon family the hammering is connected
is quite unknown, except to members of the family, but there is no lack of legends, possible
and impossible, to account for any sights or sounds in the magnificent old feudal edifice.

It is said that once a visitor stayed at Glamis Castle for a few days, and, sitting up late
one moonlight night, saw a face appear at the window opposite to him. The owner of the face--it
was very pale, with great sorrowful eyes--appeared to wish to attract attention; but vanished
suddenly from the window, as if plucked suddenly away by superior strength. For a long while
the horror-stricken guest gazed at the window, in the hope that the pale face and great sad
eyes would appear again. Nothing was seen at the window, but presently horrible shrieks penetrated
even the thick walls of the castle, and rent the night air. An hour later, a dark huddled figure,
like that of an old decrepit woman, carrying something in a bundle, came into the waning moonlight,
and presently vanished.

There is a modern story of a stonemason, who was engaged at Glamis Castle last century, and
who, having discovered more than he should have done, was supplied with a handsome competency,
upon the conditions that he emigrated and kept inviolable the secret he had learned.

The employment of a stonemason is explained by the conditions under which the mystery is revealed
to successive heirs and factors. The abode of the dread secret is in a part of the castle,
also haunted by the apparition of a bearded man, who flits about at night, but without committing
any other objectionable action. What connection, if any, the bearded spectre may have with
the mystery is not even guessed. He hovers at night over the couches of children for an instant,
and then vanishes. The secret itself abides in a room--a secret chamber--the very situation
of which, beyond a general idea that it is in the most ancient part of the castle, is unknown.
Where walls are fifteen feet thick, it is not impossible to have a chamber so concealed, that
none but the initiated can guess its position. It was once attempted by a madcap party of guests
to discover the locality of the secret chamber, by hanging their towels out of the window,
and thus deciding in favour of any window from which no spotless banner waved; but this escapade,
which is said to have been ill-received by the owners, ended in nothing but a vague conclusion
that the old square tower must be the spot sought. She told him that she was so often solicited
by curious people to relate the story that she was weary of repeating it; but, to oblige him,
she once more related the particulars, wishing now to have done with it. Mr Hampson said she
appeared to be a sensible, intelligent person, and that he saw no reason to doubt her veracity.
I know many persons in the present day laugh at such stories, and affect very much to doubt
their reality, while others totally deny the possibility of their existence. However, Scripture
and many well-attested relations seem to favour the idea, and the present story appeared so
singular and so well attested, and I had it so near the fountain-head, that I thought it might
perhaps be worth preserving, and I have therefore taken pains to record it. Admitting it to
be true, it should seem that the consequence to the family of what the hidden box contained
was the formal cause of the spirit's disquiet, and of its disturbing the house so much and
so long, in order to bring about the discovery; but why the departed spirit should concern
itself in the affairs of this world after it has left it--or why they should disquiet it so
as to cause it to reappear and make disturbances, in order to discover and have things righted,
as in the preceding case,--or why this should be done in some cases of apparently less moment,
while in other cases much greater family injuries seem to be suffered, and no spirit appears
to interest itself in the case--are circumstances for which we can by no means account. A cloud
sits deep on futurity; and we are so little acquainted with the laws of the spiritual world
that we are perhaps incapable, in our present state, of comprehending its nature or of giving
any satisfactory account of these matters.

XX

CROGLIN GRANGE

From ARCHDEACON HARE'S Autobiography[10]

"Fisher," said the Captain, "may sound a very plebeian name, but this family is of very ancient
lineage, and for many hundreds of years they have possessed a very curious old place in Cumberland,
which bears the weird name of Croglin Grange. The great characteristic of the house is that
never at any period of its very long existence has it been more than one story high, but it
has a terrace from which large grounds sweep away towards the church in the hollow, and a fine
distant view.

"When, in lapse of years, the Fishers outgrew Croglin Grange in family and fortune, they were
wise enough not to destroy the long-standing characteristic of the place by adding another
story to the house, but they went away to the south, to reside at Thorncombe near Guildford,
and they let Croglin Grange.

"They were extremely fortunate in their tenants, two brothers and a sister. They heard their
praises from all quarters. To their poorer neighbours they were all that is most kind and beneficent,
and their neighbours of a higher class spoke of them as a welcome addition to the little society
of the neighbourhood. On their part the tenants were greatly delighted with their new residence.
The arrangement of the house, which would have been a trial to many, was not so to them. In
every respect Croglin Grange was exactly suited to them.

"The winter was spent most happily by the new inmates of Croglin Grange, who shared in all
the little social pleasures of the district, and made themselves very popular. In the following
summer there was one day which was dreadfully, annihilatingly hot. The brothers lay under the
trees with their books, for it was too hot for any active occupation. The sister sat in the
verandah and worked, or tried to work, for in the intense sultriness of that summer day work
was next to impossible. They dined early, and after dinner they still sat out in the verandah,
enjoying the cool air which came with evening, and they watched the sun set, and the moon rise
over the belt of trees which separated the grounds from the churchyard, seeing it mount the
heavens till the whole lawn was bathed in silver light, across which the long shadows from
the shrubbery fell as if embossed, so vivid and distinct were they.

"When they separated for the night, all retiring to their rooms on the ground-floor (for, as
I said, there was no upstairs in that house), the sister felt that the heat was still so great
that she could not sleep, and having fastened her window, she did not close the shutters--in
that very quiet place it was not necessary--and, propped against the pillows, she still watched
the wonderful, the marvellous beauty of that summer night. Gradually she became aware of two
lights, two lights which flickered in and out in the belt of trees which separated the lawn
from the churchyard; and, as her gaze became fixed upon them, she saw them emerge, fixed in
a dark substance, a definite ghastly something, which seemed every moment to become nearer,
increasing in size and substance as it approached. Every now and then it was lost for a moment
in the long shadows which stretched across the lawn from the trees, and then it emerged larger
than ever, and still coming on--on. As she watched it, the most uncontrollable horror seized
her. She longed to get away, but the door was close to the window and the door was locked on
the inside, and while she was unlocking it, she must be for an instant nearer to it. She longed
to scream, but her voice seemed paralysed, her tongue glued to the roof of her mouth.

"Suddenly, she never could explain why afterwards, the terrible object seemed to turn to one
side, seemed to be going round the house, not to be coming to her at all, and immediately she
jumped out of bed and rushed to the door; but as she was unlocking it, she heard scratch, scratch,
scratch upon the window, and saw a hideous brown face with flaming eyes glaring in at her.
She rushed back to the bed, but the creature continued to scratch, scratch, scratch upon the
window. She felt a sort of mental comfort in the knowledge that the window was securely fastened
on the inside. Suddenly the scratching sound ceased, and a kind of pecking sound took its place.
Then, in her agony, she became aware that the creature was unpicking the lead! The noise continued,
and a diamond pane of glass fell into the room. Then a long bony finger of the creature came
in and turned the handle of the window, and the window opened, and the creature came in; and
it came across the room, and her terror was so great that she could not scream, and it came
up to the bed, and it twisted its long, bony fingers into her hair, and it dragged her head
over the side of the bed, and--it bit her violently in the throat.

"As it bit her, her voice was released, and she screamed with all her might and main. Her brothers
rushed out of their rooms, but the door was locked on the inside. A moment was lost while they
got a poker and broke it open. Then the creature had already escaped through the window, and
the sister, bleeding violently from a wound in the throat, was lying unconscious over the side
of the bed. One brother pursued the creature, which fled before him through the moonlight with
gigantic strides, and eventually seemed to disappear over the wall into the churchyard. Then
he rejoined his brother by the sister's bedside. She was dreadfully hurt, and her wound was
a very definite one; but she was of strong disposition, not either given to romance or superstition,
and when she came to herself she said, 'What has happened is most extraordinary, and I am very
much hurt. It seems inexplicable, but of course there is an explanation, and we must wait for
it. It will turn out that a lunatic has escaped from some asylum and found his way here.' The
wound healed, and she appeared to get well, but the doctor who was sent for would not believe
that she could bear so terrible a shock so easily, and insisted that she must have change,
mental and physical; so her brothers took her to Switzerland.

"Being a sensible girl, when she went abroad she threw herself at once into the interests of
the country she was in. She dried plants, she made sketches, she went up mountains, and, as
autumn came on, she was the person who urged that they should return to Croglin Grange. 'We
have taken it,' she said, 'for seven years, and we have only been there one; and we shall always
find it difficult to let a house which is only one story high, so we had better return there;
lunatics do not escape every day.' As she urged it, her brothers wished nothing better, and
the family returned to Cumberland. From there being no upstairs to the house it was impossible
to make any great change in their arrangements. The sister occupied the same room, but it is
unnecessary to say she always closed her shutters, which, however, as in many old houses, always
left one top pane of the window uncovered. The brothers moved, and occupied a room together,
exactly opposite that of their sister, and they always kept loaded pistols in their room.

"The winter passed most peacefully and happily. In the following March the sister was suddenly
awakened by a sound she remembered only too well--scratch, scratch, scratch upon the window,
and, looking up, she saw quite clearly in the topmost pane of the window the same hideous brown
shrivelled face, with glaring eyes, looking in at her. This time she screamed as loud as she
could. Her brothers rushed out of their room with pistols, and out of the front door. The creature
was already scudding away across the lawn. One of the brothers fired and hit it in the leg,
but still with the other leg it continued to make way, scrambled over the wall into the churchyard,
and seemed to disappear into a vault which belonged to a family long extinct.

"The next day the brothers summoned all the tenants of Croglin Grange, and in their presence
the vault was opened. A horrible scene revealed itself. The vault was full of coffins; they
had been broken open, and their contents, horribly mangled and distorted, were scattered over
the floor. One coffin alone remained intact. Of that the lid had been lifted, but still lay
loose upon the coffin. They raised it, and there, brown, withered, shrivelled, mummified, but
quite entire, was the same hideous figure which had looked in at the windows of Croglin Grange,
with the marks of a recent pistol-shot in the leg; and they did--the only thing that can lay
a vampire--they burnt it."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: The Story of my Life (Allen & Unwin).]

XXI

THE GHOST OF MAJOR SYDENHAM

By JOSEPH GLANVIL[11]

Concerning the apparition of the Ghost of Major George Sydenham, (late of Dulverton in the
County of Somerset) to Captain William Dyke, late of Skilgate in this County also, and now
likewise deceased: Be pleased to take the Relation of it as I have it from the worthy and learned
Dr Tho. Dyke, a near kinsman of the Captain's, thus: Shortly after the Major's Death, the Doctor
was desired to come to the House, to take care of a Child that was there sick, and in his way
thither he called on the Captain, who was very willing to wait on him to the place, because
he must, as he said, have gone thither that night, though he had not met with so encouraging
an opportunity. After their arrival there at the House, and the Civility of the People shewn
them in that Entertainment, they were seasonably conducted to their Lodging, which they desired
might be together in the same Bed: Where after they had lain a while, the Captain knocked,
and bids the Servant bring him two of the largest and biggest Candles lighted that he could
get. Whereupon the Doctor enquires what he meant by this? The Captain answers, You know Cousin
what Disputes my Major and I have had touching the Being of a God, and the Immortality of the
Soul; in which points we could never yet be resolv'd, though we so much sought for and desired
it; and therefore it was at length fully agreed between us, That he of us that died first,
should the third Night after his Funeral, between the Hours of Twelve and one, come to the
little House that is here in the Garden, and there give a full account to the Survivor touching
these Matters, who should be sure to be present there at the set time, and so receive a full
satisfaction; and this, says the Captain, is the very Night, and I am come on purpose to fulfil
my promise. The Doctor dissuaded him, minding him of the danger of following those strange
Counsels, for which we could have no Warrant, and that the Devil might by some cunning Device
make such an advantage of this rash attempt, as might work his utter Ruin. The Captain replies,
That he had solemnly engag'd, and that nothing should discourage him, and adds, that if the
Doctor would wake awhile with him, he would thank him, if not, he might compose himself to
his rest; but for his own part he was resolv'd to watch, that he might be sure to be present
at the Hour appointed: To that purpose he sets his watch by him, and as soon as he perceived
by it that it was half an Hour past 11, he rises, and taking a Candle in each Hand, goes out
by a back-door, of which he had before gotten the Key, and walks to the Garden-house, where
he continued two hours and a half, and at his return declared, that he had neither saw not
heard any thing more than what was usual. But I know, said he, that my Major would surely have
come, had he been able.

About 6 weeks after, the Captain rides to Eaton to place his Son a Scholar there, when the
Doctor went thither with him. They lodged there at an Inn, the Sign was the Christopher, and
tarried two or three Nights, not lying together now as before at Dulverton, but in two several
Chambers. The morning before they went thence, the Captain staid in his Chamber longer than
he was wont to do before he called upon the Doctor. At length he comes into the Doctor's Chamber,
but in a Visage and Form much differing from himself, with his Hair and Eyes staring, and his
whole Body shaking and trembling: Whereupon at the Doctor wondering, presently demanded: What
is the matter Cousin Captain? The Captain replies, I have seen my Major: At which the Doctor
seeming to smile, the Captain immediately confirms it, saying, If ever I saw him in my life,
I saw him but now: And then he related to the Doctor what had passed, thus: This morning after
it was light, someone comes to my bedside, and suddenly drawing back the Curtains, calls, Cap.
Cap. (which was the term of familiarity that the Major used to call the Captain by). To whom
I replied, What my Major? To which he returns, I could not come at the time appointed, but
I am now come to tell you, That there is a God, and a very just and terrible one, and if you
do not turn over a new leaf, (the very Expressions as is by the Doctor punctually remembered)
you will find it so. The Captain proceeded: On the Table by there lay a Sword, which the Major
had formerly given me. Now after the Apparition had walked a turn or two about the Chamber,
he took up the Sword, drew it out, and finding it not so clean and bright as it ought, Cap.
Cap. says he, this Sword did not use to be kept after this manner when it was mine. After which
Words he suddenly disappeared.

The Captain was not only thoroughly persuaded of what he had thus seen and heard, but was from
that time observed to be very much affected with it: and the Humour that before in him was
brisk and jovial, was then strangely alter'd; insomuch, as very little Meat would pass down
with him at Dinner, though at the taking leave of their Friends there was a very handsome Treat
provided: Yea it was observed that what the Captain had thus seen and heard, had a more lasting
Influence upon him, and 'tis judged by those who were well acquainted with his Conversation,
that the remembrance of this Passage stuck close to him, and that those words of his dead Friend
were frequently sounding fresh in his Ears, during the remainder of his Life, which was about
Two Years.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 11: Sadducismus Triumphatus.]

XXII

THE MIRACULOUS CASE OF JESCH CLAES

From CHRISTMAS' "Phantom World"

In the year 1676, about the 13th or 14th of this Month October, in the Night, between one and
two of the Clock, this Jesch Claes, a cripple, being in bed with her Husband, who was a Boatman,
she was three times pulled by her Arm, with which she awaked and cried out, "O Lord! what may
this be?"

Hereupon she heard an answer in plain words: "Be not afraid, I come in the Name of the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost. Your malady which hath for many years been upon you shall cease, and it
shall be given you from God Almighty to walk again. But keep this good news to yourself!" Whereupon
she cried aloud, "O Lord! that I had a light that I might know what this is." Then had she
this answer: "There needs no light, the light shall be given you from God."

Then came light all over the Room, and she saw a beautiful Youth about ten Years of Age, with
curled yellow Hair, cloathed in white to the Feet, who went from the Bed's-Head to the Chimney
with a light, which a little after vanished. Hereupon did there did shoot something through
her Leg, like water, from hip to toe, and when she did find life rising up in her dead limb,
she fell to crying out, "Lord give me now again the feeling, which I have not had in so many
years." And farther she continued crying and praying to the Lord according to her weak measure.

Yet she continued that day, Wednesday, and the next day Thursday, as before till Evening at
six a clock. At which time she sate at the Fire dressing the Food. Then came as like rushing
noise in both her Ears with which it was said to her, "Stand. Your going is given you again."

Then did she immediately stand up, that had so many years crept, and went to the door. Her
Husband meeting her, being exceedingly afraid, drew back. In the mean time while she cried
out, "My dear Husband, I can go again."

He thinking it was a Spirit, drew back, saying, "You are not my Wife."

His Wife taking hold of him, said, "My dear Husband, I am the self-same that hath been married
these thirty years to you. The Almighty God hath given me my going again."

But her Husband being amazed, drew back to the side of the Room, till at last she clasped her
Hand about his Neck. And yet he doubted, and said to his Daughter, "Is this your Mother?"

She answered, "Yes, Father! this we plainly see. I had seen her go also before you came in."

This befell upon Prince's-Island in Amsterdam, where Jesch Claes lived with her husband.

XXIII

THE RADIANT BOY OF CORBY CASTLE

Local Records

The haunted room forms part of the old house, with windows looking into the court. It adjoins
a tower built for defence, for Corby was, properly, more a border tower than a castle of any
consideration. There is a winding staircase in this tower, and the walls are from eight to
ten feet thick.

When the times became more peaceable, our ancestors enlarged the arrow-slit windows, and added
to that part of the building which looks towards the river Eden; the view of which, with its
beautiful banks, we now enjoy. But many additions and alterations have been made since that.

To return to the room in question: I must observe that it is by no means remote or solitary,
being surrounded on all sides by chambers that are constantly inhabited. It is accessible by
a passage cut through a wall eight feet in thickness, and its dimensions are twenty-one by
eighteen. One side of the wainscotting is covered with tapestry, the remainder is decorated
with old family pictures, and some ancient pieces of embroidery, probably the handiwork of
nuns. Over a press, which has doors of Venetian glass, is an ancient oaken figure, with a battle-axe
in his hand, which was one of those formerly placed on the walls of the City of Carlisle, to
represent guards. There used to be also an old-fashioned bed and some dark furniture in this
room; but so many were the complaints of those who slept there, that I was induced to replace
some of these articles of furniture by more modern ones, in the hope of removing a certain
air of gloom, which I thought might have given rise to the unaccountable reports of apparitions
and extraordinary noises which were constantly reaching us. But I regret to say, I did not
succeed in banishing the nocturnal visitor, which still continues to disturb our friends.

I shall pass over numerous instances, and select one as being especially remarkable, from the
circumstance of the apparition having been seen by a clergyman well known and highly respected
in this county, who, not six weeks ago, repeated the circumstances to a company of twenty persons,
amongst whom were some who had previously been entire disbelievers in such appearances.

The best way of giving you these particulars will be by subjoining an extract from my journal,
entered at the time the event occurred.

Sept. 8, 1803.--Amongst other guests invited to Corby Castle came the Rev. Henry A., of Redburgh,
and rector of Greystoke, with Mrs A., his wife, who was a Miss S., of Ulverstone. According
to previous arrangements, they were to have remained with us some days; but their visit was
cut short in a very unexpected manner. On the morning after their arrival we were all assembled
at breakfast, when a chaise and four dashed up to the door in such haste that it knocked down
part of the fence of my flower garden. Our curiosity was, of course, awakened to know who could
be arriving at so early an hour; when, happening to turn my eyes towards Mr A., I observed
that he appeared extremely agitated. "It is our carriage," said he; "I am very sorry, but we
must absolutely leave you this morning."

We naturally felt and expressed considerable surprise, as well as regret, at this unexpected
departure, representing that we had invited Colonel and Mrs S., some friends whom Mr A. particularly
desired to meet, to dine with us on that day. Our expostulations, however, were vain; the breakfast
was no sooner over than they departed, leaving us in consternation to conjecture what could
possibly have occasioned so sudden an alteration in their arrangements. I really felt quite
uneasy lest anything should have given them offence; and we reviewed all the occurrences of
the preceding evening in order to discover, if offence there was, whence it had arisen. But
our pains were vain; and after talking a great deal about it for some days, other circumstances
banished the matter from our minds.

It was not till we some time afterwards visited the part of the county in which Mr A. resides
that we learnt the real cause of his sudden departure from Corby. The relation of the fact,
as it here follows, is in his own words:--

"Soon after we went to bed, we fell asleep; it might be between one and two in the morning
when I awoke. I observed that the fire was totally extinguished; but, although that was the
case, and we had no light, I saw a glimmer in the centre of the room, which suddenly increased
to a bright flame. I looked out, apprehending that something had caught fire, when, to my amazement,
I beheld a beautiful boy, clothed in white, with bright locks resembling gold, standing by
my bedside, in which position he remained some minutes, fixing his eyes upon me with a mild
and benevolent expression. He then glided gently towards the side of the chimney, where it
is obvious there is no possible egress, and entirely disappeared. I found myself again in total
darkness, and all remained quiet until the usual hour of rising. I declare this to be a true
account of what I saw at Corby Castle, upon my word as a clergyman."

Mrs Crowe, alluding to this story in her "Night Side of Nature," said that she was acquainted
with some of the family and several of the friends of the Rev. Henry A., who, she continued,
"is still alive, though now an old man; and I can most positively assert that his own conviction
with regard to the nature of this appearance has remained ever unshaken. The circumstance made
a lasting impression upon his mind, and he never willingly speaks of it; but when he does,
it is always with the greatest seriousness, and he never shrinks from avowing his belief that
what he saw admits of no other interpretation than the one he then put upon it."

XXIV

CLERK SAUNDERS

"Border Minstrelsy"

    Clerk Saunders and May Margaret
      Walked owre yon garden green;
    And sad and heavy was the love
      That fell them twa between.

    And thro' the dark, and thro' the mirk,
      And thro' the leaves o' green,
    He cam that night to Margaret's door,
      And tirléd at the pin.

    "O wha is that at my bower door,
      Sae weel my name does ken?"
    "'Tis I, Clerk Saunders, your true love;
      You'll open and let me in?"

    "But in may come my seven bauld brithers,
      Wi' torches burning bright;
    They'll say--'We hae but ae sister,
      And behold she's wi' a knight!'"

    "Ye'll tak my brand I bear in hand,
      And wi' the same ye'll lift the pin;
    Then ye may swear, and save your aith,
      That ye ne'er let Clerk Saunders in.

    "Ye'll tak the kerchief in your hand,
      And wi' the same tie up your een;
    Then ye may swear and save your aith,
      Ye saw me na since yestere'en."

    It was about the midnight hour,
      When they asleep were laid,
    When in and cam her seven brothers,
      Wi' torches burning red.

    When in and cam her seven brothers,
      Wi' torches burning bright;
    They said, "We hae but ae sister,
      And behold she's wi' a knight."

    Then out and spak the first o' them,
      "We'll awa' and lat them be."
    And out and spak the second o' them,
      "His father has nae mair than he!"

    And out and spak the third o' them,
      "I wot they are lovers dear!"
    And out and spak the fourth o' them,
      "They hae lo'ed this mony a year!"

    Then out and spak the fifth o' them,
      "It were sin true love to twain!"
    "'Twere shame," out spak the sixth o' them,
      "To slay a sleeping man!"

    And they lay still and sleepit sound,
      Till the day began to daw;
    And kindly to him she did say,
      "It is time, love, you were awa'."

    But he lay still, and sleepit sound,
      Till the sun began to sheen;
    She looked atween her and the wa',
      And dull, dull were his een.

    She turned the blankets to the foot,
      The sheets unto the wa',
    And there she saw his bloody wound,
      And her tears fast doun did fa'.

    Then in and cam her father dear,
      Said, "Let a' your mournin' be;
    I'll carry the dead corpse to the clay
      And then come back and comfort thee.

    "Hold your tongue, my daughter dear,
      And let your mourning be;
    I'll wed you to a higher match
      Than his father's son could be."

    "Gae comfort weel your seven sons, father,
      For man sall ne'er comfort me;
    Ye'll marry me wi' the Queen o' Heaven,
      For wedded I ne'er sall be!"

    The clinking bell gaed through the toun,
      To carry the dead corse to the clay;
    And Clerk Saunders stood at Margaret's window,
      'Twas an hour before the day.

    "O'are ye sleeping, Margaret?" he says,
      "Or are ye waking presentlie?
    Gie me my faith and troth again,
      I wot, true love, I gied to thee.

    "Your faith and troth ye sall never get,
      Nor our true love sall never twin,
    Until ye come within my bower,
      And kiss me cheek and chin."

    "My mouth it is full cold, Margaret,
      It has the smell, now, of the ground;
    And if I kiss thy comely mouth,
      To the grave thou will be bound.

    "O, cocks are crawing a merry midnight,
      I wot the wild-fowls are boding day;
    Gie me my faith and troth again,
      And let me fare me on my way."

    "Thy faith and troth thou sall na get,
      And our true love shall never twin,
    Until ye tell what comes of women,
      I wot, who die in strong travailing."

    "Their beds are made in the heavens high,
      Down at the foot of our good Lord's knee,
    Weel set about wi' gillyflowers;
      I wot sweet company for to see.

    "O, cocks are crawing a merry midnight,
      I wot the wild-fowl are boding day;
    The psalms of heaven will soon be sung,
      And I, ere now, will be missed away."

    Then she has ta'en a crystal wand,
      And she has stroken her troth thereon,
    She has given it him out at the shot-window,
      Wi' mony a sigh and heavy groan.

    "I thank ye, Margaret; I thank ye, Margaret;
      And aye I thank ye heartilie;
    Gin ever the dead come for the quick,
      Be sure, Margaret, I'll come for thee."

    It's hosen, and shoon, and gown, alane,
      She clam the wa' and after him;
    Until she cam to the green forest,
      And there she lost the sight o' him.

    "There's nae room at my head, Margaret,
      There's nae room at my feet;
    My bed it is full lowly now:
      'Mang the hungry worms I sleep.

    "Cauld mould is my covering now,
      But and my winding-sheet;
    The dew it falls nae sooner down,
      Than my resting-place is weet.

    "But plait a wand o' the bonnie birk
      And lay it on my breast;
    And shed a tear upon my grave,
      And wish my saul gude rest.

    "And fair Margaret, and rare Margaret,
      And Margaret o' veritie,
    Gin e'er ye love anither man,
      Ne'er love him as ye did me."

    Then up and crew the milk-white cock,
      And up and crew the gray;
    Her lover vanished in the air,
      And she gaed weeping away.

XXV

DOROTHY DURANT

By Mrs CROWE

A schoolboy named Bligh, who went to Launceston Grammar School, of which the Rev. John Ruddle
was headmaster, from being a lad of bright parts and no common attainments, became on a sudden
moody, dejected, and melancholy. His friends, seeing the change without being able to find
the cause, attributed it to laziness, an aversion to school, or to some other motive which
he was ashamed to avow. He was led, however, to tell his brother, after some time, that in
a field through which he passed to and from school, he invariably met the apparition of a woman,
whom he personally knew while living, and who had been dead about eight years. Ridicule, threats,
persuasions, were alike used in vain by the family to induce him to dismiss these absurd ideas.
Finally, Mr Ruddle was sent for, and to him the boy ingenuously told the time, manner, and
frequency of this appearance. It was in a field called Higher Broomfield. The apparition, he
said, appeared dressed in female attire, met him two or three times while he passed through
the field, glided hastily by him, but never spoke. He had thus been occasionally met about
two months before he took any particular notice of it; at length the appearance became more
frequent, meeting him both morning and evening, but always in the same field, yet invariably
moving out of the path when it came close to him. He often spoke, but could never get any reply.
To avoid this unwelcome visitor he forsook the field, and went to school and returned from
it through a lane, in which place, between the quarry pack and nursery, it always met him.
Unable to disbelieve the evidence of his own senses, or to obtain credit with any of his family,
he prevailed upon Mr Ruddle to accompany him to the place.

"I arose," says this clergyman, "the next morning, and went with him. The field to which he
led me I guessed to be about twenty acres, in an open country, and about three furlongs from
any house. We went into the field, and had not gone a third part before the spectrum in the
shape of a woman, with all the circumstances he had described the day before, so far as the
suddenness of its appearance and transition would permit me to discover, passed by.

"I was a little surprised at it, and though I had taken up a firm resolution to speak to it,
I had not the power, nor durst I look back; yet I took care not to show any fear to my pupil
and guide, and therefore, telling him I was satisfied of the truth of his statement, we walked
to the end of the field and returned--nor did the ghost meet us that time but once.

"On the 27th July, 1665, I went to the haunted field by myself, and walked the breadth of it
without any encounter. I then returned and took the other walk, and then the spectre appeared
to me, much about the same place in which I saw it when the young gentleman was with me. It
appeared to move swifter than before, and seemed to be about ten feet from me on my right hand,
insomuch that I had not time to speak to it, as I had determined with myself beforehand. The
evening of this day, the parents, the son, and myself, being in the chamber where I lay, I
proposed to them our going altogether to the place next morning. We accordingly met at the
stile we had appointed; thence we all four walked into the field together. We had not gone
more than half the field before the ghost made its appearance. It then came over the stile
just before us, and moved with such rapidity that by the time we had gone six or seven steps
it passed by. I immediately turned my head and ran after it, with the young man by my side.
We saw it pass over the stile at which we entered, and no farther. I stepped upon the hedge
at one place and the young man at another, but we could discern nothing; whereas I do aver
that the swiftest horse in England could not have conveyed himself out of sight in that short
space of time. Two things I observed in this day's appearance: first, a spaniel dog, which
had followed the company unregarded, barked and ran away as the spectrum passed by; whence
it is easy to conclude that it was not our fear or fancy which made the apparition. Secondly,
the motion of the spectrum was not gradatim or by steps, or moving of the feet, but by a kind
of gliding, as children upon ice, or as a boat down a river, which punctually answers the description
the ancients give of the motion of these Lamures. This ocular evidence clearly convinced, but
withal strangely affrighted, the old gentleman and his wife. They well knew this woman, Dorothy
Durant, in her life-time; were at her burial, and now plainly saw her features in this apparition.

"The next morning, being Thursday, I went very early by myself, and walked for about an hour's
space in meditation and prayer in the field next adjoining. Soon after five I stepped over
the stile into the haunted field, and had not gone above thirty or forty paces before the ghost
appeared at the further stile. I spoke to it in some short sentences with a loud voice; whereupon
it approached me, but slowly, and when I came near it moved not. I spoke again, and it answered
in a voice neither audible nor very intelligible. I was not in the least terrified, and therefore
persisted until it spoke again and gave me satisfaction; but the work could not be finished
at this time. Whereupon the same evening, an hour after sunset, it met me again near the same
place, and after a few words on each side it quietly vanished, and neither doth appear now,
nor hath appeared since, nor ever will more to any man's disturbance. The discourse in the
morning lasted about a quarter of an hour.

"These things are true," concludes the Rev. John Ruddle, "and I know them to be so, with as
much certainty as eyes and ears can give me; and until I can be persuaded that my senses all
deceive me about their proper objects, and by that persuasion deprive me of the strongest inducement
to believe the Christian religion, I must and will assert that the things contained in this
paper are true."

XXVI

PEARLIN JEAN

By CHARLES KIRKPATRICK SHARPE

It was Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe, the antiquary, who furnished this account of Pearlin Jean's
hauntings at Allanbank.

"In my youth," he says, "Pearlin Jean was the most remarkable ghost in Scotland, and my terror
when a child. Our old nurse, Jenny Blackadder, had been a servant at Allanbank, and often heard
her rustling in silks up and down stairs, and along the passages. She never saw her; but her
husband did.

"She was a French woman, whom the first baronet of Allanbank, then Mr Stuart, met with at Paris,
during his tour to finish his education as a gentleman. Some people said she was a nun; in
which case she must have been a Sister of Charity, as she appears not to have been confined
to a cloister. After some time, young Stuart either became faithless to the lady or was suddenly
recalled to Scotland by his parents, and had got into his carriage at the door of the hotel,
when his Dido unexpectedly made her appearance, and stepping on the forewheel of the coach
to address her lover, he ordered the postilion to drive on; the consequence of which was that
the lady fell, and one of the wheels going over her forehead, killed her.

"In a dusky autumnal evening, when Mr Stuart drove under the arched gateway of Allanbank, he
perceived Pearlin Jean sitting on the top, her head and shoulders covered with blood.

"After this, for many years, the house was haunted; doors shut and opened with great noise
at midnight; the rustling of silks and pattering of high-heeled shoes were heard in bedrooms
and passages. Nurse Jenny said there were seven ministers called in together at one time to
lay the spirit; 'but they did no mickle good, my dear.'

"The picture of the ghost was hung between those of her lover and his lady, and kept her comparatively
quiet; but when taken away, she became worse-natured than ever. This portrait was in the present
Sir J.G.'s possession. I am unwilling to record its fate.

"The ghost was designated Pearlin, from always wearing a great quantity of that sort of lace.

"Nurse Jenny told me that when Thomas Blackadder was her lover (I remember Thomas very well),
they made an assignation to meet one moonlight night in the orchard at Allanbank. True Thomas,
of course, was the first comer; and seeing a female figure in a light-coloured dress, at some
distance, he ran forward with open arms to embrace his Jenny; when lo and behold! as he neared
the spot where the figure stood, it vanished; and presently he saw it again at the very end
of the orchard, a considerable way off. Thomas went home in a fright; but Jenny, who came last,
and saw nothing, forgave him, and they were married.

"Many years after this, about the year 1790, two ladies paid a visit at Allanbank--I think
the house was then let--and passed the night there. They had never heard a word about the ghost;
but they were disturbed the whole night with something walking backwards and forwards in their
bed-chamber. This I had from the best authority."

To this account may be added that a housekeeper, called Betty Norrie, who, in more recent times,
lived many years at Allanbank, positively averred that she, and many other persons, had frequently
seen Pearlin Jean; and, moreover, stated that they were so used to her as to be no longer alarmed
at the noises she made.

XXVII

THE DENTON HALL GHOST

Local Records

A day or two after my arrival at Denton Hall, when all around was yet new to me, I had accompanied
my friends to a ball given in the neighbourhood, and returned heartily fatigued. At this time
I need not blush, nor you smile, when I say that on that evening I had met, for the second
time, one with whose destinies my own were doomed to become connected.

I think I was sitting upon an antique carved chair, near to the fire, in the room where I slept,
busied in arranging my hair, and thinking over some of the events of the day. Whether I had
dropped into a half-slumber, I cannot say; but on looking up--for I had my face bent toward
the fire--there seemed sitting on a similar highbacked chair, on the other side of the ancient
tiled fireplace, an old lady, whose air and dress were so remarkable that to this hour they
seem as fresh in my memory as they were the day after the vision. She appeared to be dressed
in a flowered satin gown, of a cut then out of date. It was peaked and long-waisted. The fabric
of the satin had that extreme of glossy stiffness which old fabrics of this kind exhibit. She
wore a stomacher. On her wrinkled fingers appeared some rings of great size and seeming value;
but, what was most remarkable, she wore also a satin hood of a peculiar shape. It was glossy
like the gown, but seemed to be stiffened either by whalebone or some other material. Her age
seemed considerable, and the face, though not unpleasant, was somewhat hard and severe and
indented with minute wrinkles. I confess that so entirely was my attention engrossed by what
was passing in my mind, that, though I felt mightily confused, I was not startled (in the emphatic
sense) by the apparition. In fact, I deemed it to be some old lady, perhaps a housekeeper,
or dependent in the family, and, therefore, though rather astonished, was by no means frightened
by my visitant, supposing me to be awake, which I am convinced was the case, though few persons
believe me on this point.

My own impression is that I stared somewhat rudely, in the wonder of the moment, at the hard,
but lady-like features of my aged visitor. But she left me small time to think, addressing
me in a familiar half-whisper and with a constant restless motion of the hand which aged persons,
when excited, often exhibit in addressing the young. "Well, young lady," said my mysterious
companion, "and so you've been at yon hall to-night! and highly ye've been delighted there!
Yet if you could see as I can see, or could know as I can know, troth! I guess your pleasure
would abate. 'Tis well for you, young lady, peradventure, ye see not with my eyes"--and at
the moment, sure enough, her eyes, which were small, grey, and in no way remarkable, twinkled
with a light so severe that the effect was unpleasant in the extreme. "'Tis well for you and
them," she continued, "that ye cannot count the cost. Time was when hospitality could be kept
in England, and the guest not ruin the master of the feast--but that's all vanished now: pride
and poverty--pride and poverty, young lady, are an ill-matched pair, Heaven kens!" My tongue,
which had at first almost faltered in its office, now found utterance. By a kind of instinct,
I addressed my strange visitant in her own manner and humour. "And are we, then, so much poorer
than in days of yore?" were the words that I spoke. My visitor seemed half startled at the
sound of my voice, as at something unaccustomed, and went on, rather answering my question
by implication than directly: "'Twas not all hollowness then," she exclaimed, ceasing somewhat
her hollow whisper; "the land was then the lord's, and that which seemed, was. The child, young
lady, was not then mortgaged in the cradle, and, mark ye, the bride, when she kneeled at the
altar, gave not herself up, body and soul, to be the bondswoman of the Jew, but to be the helpmate
of the spouse." "The Jew!" I exclaimed in surprise, for then I understood not the allusion.
"Ay, young lady! the Jew," was the rejoinder. "'Tis plain ye know not who rules. 'Tis all hollow
yonder! all hollow, all hollow! to the very glitter of the side-board, all false! all false!
all hollow! Away with such make-believe finery!" And here again the hollow voice rose a little,
and the dim grey eye glistened. "Ye mortgage the very oaks of your ancestors--I saw the planting
of them; and now 'tis all painting, gilding, varnishing and veneering. Houses call ye them?
Whited sepulchres, young lady, whited sepulchres. Trust not all that seems to glisten. Fair
though it seems, 'tis but the product of disease--even as is the pearl in your hair, young
lady, that glitters in the mirror yonder,--not more specious than is all,--ay, all ye have
seen to-night."

As my strange visitor pronounced these words, I instinctively turned my gaze to a large old-fashioned
mirror that leaned from the wall of the chamber. 'Twas but for a moment. But when I again turned
my head, my visitant was no longer there! I heard plainly, as I turned, the distinct rustle
of the silk, as if she had risen and was leaving the room. I seemed distinctly to hear this,
together with the quick, short, easy footstep with which females of rank of that period were
taught to glide rather than to walk; this I seemed to hear, but of what appeared the antique
old lady I saw no more. The suddenness and strangeness of this event for a moment sent the
blood back to my heart. Could I have found voice, I should, I think, have screamed, but that
was, for a moment, beyond my power. A few seconds recovered me. By a sort of impulse I rushed
to the door, outside which I now heard the footsteps of some of the family, when, to my utter
astonishment, I found it was--locked! I now recollected that I myself locked it before sitting
down.

Though somewhat ashamed to give utterance to what I really believed as to this matter, the
strange adventure of the night was made a subject of conversation at the breakfast-table next
morning. On the words leaving my lips, I saw my host and hostess exchange looks with each other,
and soon found that the tale I had to tell was not received with the air which generally meets
such relations. I was not repelled by an angry or ill-bred incredulity, or treated as one of
diseased fancy, to whom silence is indirectly recommended as the alternative of being laughed
at. In short, it was not attempted to be denied or concealed that I was not the first who had
been alarmed in a manner, if not exactly similar, yet just as mysterious; that visitors, like
myself, had actually given way to these terrors so far as to quit the house in consequence;
and that servants were sometimes not to be prevented from sharing in the same contagion. At
the same time they told me this, my host and hostess declared that custom and continued residence
had long exempted all regular inmates of the mansion from any alarms or terrors. The visitations,
whatever they were, seemed to be confined to newcomers, and to them it was by no means a matter
of frequent occurrence.

In the neighbourhood, I found, this strange story was well known; that the house was regularly
set down as "haunted" all the country round, and that the spirit, or goblin, or whatever it
was that was embodied in these appearances, was familiarly known by the name of "Silky."

At a distance, those to whom I have related my night's adventure have one and all been sceptical,
and accounted for the whole by supposing me to have been half asleep, or in a state resembling
somnambulism. All I can say is, that my own impressions are directly contrary to this supposition;
and that I feel as sure that I saw the figure that sat before me with my bodily eyes, as I
am sure I now see you with them. Without affecting to deny that I was somewhat shocked by the
adventure, I must repeat that I suffered no unreasonable alarm, nor suffered my fancy to overcome
my better spirit of womanhood.

I certainly slept no more in that room, and in that to which I removed I had one of the daughters
of my hostess as a companion; but I have never, from that hour to this, been convinced that
I did not actually encounter something more than is natural--if not an actual being in some
other state of existence. My ears have not been deceived, if my eyes were--which, I repeat,
I cannot believe.

The warnings so strongly shadowed forth have been too true. The gentleman at whose house I
that night was a guest has long since filled an untimely grave! In that splendid hall, since
that time, strangers have lorded it--and I myself have long since ceased to think of such scenes
as I partook of that evening--the envied object of the attention of one whose virtues have
survived the splendid inheritance to which he seemed destined.

Whether this be a tale of delusion and superstition, or something more than that, it is, at
all events, not without a legend for its foundation. There is some obscure and dark rumour
of secrets strangely obtained and enviously betrayed by a rival sister, ending in deprivation
of reason and death; and that the betrayer still walks by times in the deserted Hall which
she rendered tenantless, always prophetic of disaster to those she encounters. So has it been
with me, certainly; and more than me, if those who say it say true. It is many, many years
since I saw the scene of this adventure; but I have heard that since that time the same mysterious
visitings have more than once been renewed; that midnight curtains have been drawn by an arm
clothed in rustling silks; and the same form, clad in dark brocade, has been seen gliding along
the dark corridors of that ancient, grey, and time-worn mansion, ever prophetic of death or
misfortune.

XXVIII

THE GOODWOOD GHOST STORY

(Doubtfully attributed to CHARLES DICKENS)

My wife's sister, Mrs M----, was left a widow at the age of thirty-five, with two children,
girls, of whom she was passionately fond. She carried on the draper's business at Bognor, established
by her husband. Being still a very handsome woman, there were several suitors for her hand.
The only favoured one amongst them was a Mr Barton. My wife never liked this Mr Barton, and
made no secret of her feelings to her sister, whom she frequently told that Mr Barton only
wanted to be master of the little haberdashery shop in Bognor. He was a man in poor circumstances,
and had no other motive in his proposal of marriage, so my wife thought, than to better himself.

On the 23rd of August 1831 Mrs M---- arranged to go with Barton to a picnic party at Goodwood
Park, the seat of the Duke of Richmond, who had kindly thrown open his grounds to the public
for the day. My wife, a little annoyed at her going out with this man, told her she had much
better remain at home to look after her children and attend to the business. Mrs M----, however,
bent on going, made arrangements about leaving the shop, and got my wife to promise to see
to her little girls while she was away.

The party set out in a four-wheeled phaeton, with a pair of ponies driven by Mrs M----, and
a gig for which I lent the horse.

Now we did not expect them to come back till nine or ten o'clock, at any rate. I mention this
particularly to show that there could be no expectation of their earlier return in the mind
of my wife, to account for what follows.

At six o'clock that bright summer's evening my wife went out into the garden to call the children.
Not finding them, she went all round the place in her search till she came to the empty stable;
thinking they might have run in there to play, she pushed open the door; there, standing in
the darkest corner, she saw Mrs M----. My wife was surprised to see her, certainly; for she
did not expect her return so soon; but, oddly enough, it did not strike her as being singular
to see her there. Vexed as she had felt with her all day for going, and rather glad, in her
woman's way, to have something entirely different from the genuine casus belli to hang a retort
upon, my wife said: "Well, Harriet, I should have thought another dress would have done quite
as well for your picnic as that best black silk you have on." My wife was the elder of the
twain, and had always assumed a little of the air of counsellor to her sister. Black silks
were thought a great deal more of at that time than they are just now, and silk of any kind
was held particularly inconsistent wear for Wesleyan Methodists, to which denomination we belonged.

Receiving no answer, my wife said: "Oh, well, Harriet, if you can't take a word of reproof
without being sulky, I'll leave you to yourself"; and then she came into the house to tell
me the party had returned and that she had seen her sister in the stable, not in the best of
tempers. At the moment it did not seem extraordinary to me that my wife should have met her
sister in the stable.

I waited indoors some time, expecting them to return my horse. Mrs M---- was my neighbour,
and, being always on most friendly terms, I wondered that none of the party had come in to
tell us about the day's pleasure. I thought I would just run in and see how they had got on.
To my great surprise the servant told me they had not returned. I began, then, to feel anxiety
about the result. My wife, however, having seen Harriet in the stable, refused to believe the
servant's assertion; and said there was no doubt of their return, but that they had probably
left word to say they were not come back, in order to offer a plausible excuse for taking a
further drive, and detaining my horse for another hour or so.

At eleven o'clock Mr Pinnock, my brother-in-law, who had been one of the party, came in, apparently
much agitated. As soon as she saw him, and before he had time to speak, my wife seemed to know
what he had to say.

"What is the matter?" she said; "something has happened to Harriet, I know!"

"Yes" replied Mr Pinnock; "if you wish to see her alive, you must come with me directly to
Goodwood."

From what he said it appeared that one of the ponies had never been properly broken in; that
the man from whom the turn-out was hired for the day had cautioned Mrs M---- respecting it
before they started; and that he had lent it reluctantly, being the only pony to match in the
stable at the time, and would not have lent it at all had he not known Mrs M---- to be a remarkably
good whip.

On reaching Goodwood, it seems, the gentlemen of the party had got out, leaving the ladies
to take a drive round the park in the phaeton. One or both of the ponies must then have taken
fright at something in the road, for Mrs M---- had scarcely taken the reins when the ponies
shied. Had there been plenty of room she would readily have mastered the difficulty; but it
was in a narrow road, where a gate obstructed the way. Some men rushed to open the gate--too
late. The three other ladies jumped out at the beginning of the accident; but Mrs M---- still
held on to the reins, seeking to control her ponies, until, finding it was impossible for the
men to get the gate open in time, she too sprang forward; and at the same instant the ponies
came smash on to the gate. She had made her spring too late, and fell heavily to the ground
on her head. The heavy, old-fashioned comb of the period, with which her hair was looped up,
was driven into her skull by the force of the fall. The Duke of Richmond, a witness to the
accident, ran to her assistance, lifted her up, and rested her head upon his knees. The only
words Mrs M---- had spoken were uttered at the time: "Good God, my children!" By direction
of the Duke she was immediately conveyed to a neighbouring inn, where every assistance, medical
and otherwise, that forethought or kindness could suggest was afforded her.

At six o'clock in the evening, the time at which my wife had gone into the stable and seen
what we now knew had been her spirit, Mrs M----, in her sole interval of returning consciousness,
had made a violent but unsuccessful attempt to speak. From her glance having wandered round
the room, in solemn awful wistfulness, it had been conjectured she wished to see some relative
or friend not then present. I went to Goodwood in the gig with Mr Pinnock, and arrived in time
to see my sister-in-law die at two o'clock in the morning. Her only conscious moments had been
those in which she laboured unsuccessfully to speak, which had occurred at six o'clock. She
wore a black silk dress.

When we came to dispose of her business, and to wind up her affairs, there was scarcely anything
left for the two orphan girls. Mrs M----'s father, however, being well-to-do, took them to
bring up. At his death, which happened soon afterwards, his property went to his eldest son,
who speedily dissipated the inheritance. During a space of two years the children were taken
as visitors by various relations in turn, and lived an unhappy life with no settled home.

For some time I had been debating with myself how to help these children, having many boys
and girls of my own to provide for. I had almost settled to take them myself, bad as trade
was with me, at the time, and bring them up with my own family, when one day business called
me to Brighton. The business was so urgent that it necessitated my travelling at night.

I set out from Bognor in a close-headed gig on a beautiful moonlight winter's night, when the
crisp frozen snow lay deep over the earth, and its fine glistening dust was whirled about in
little eddies on the bleak night-wind--driven now and then in stinging powder against my tingling
cheek, warm and glowing in the sharp air. I had taken my great "Bose" (short for "Boatswain")
for company. He lay, blinking wakefully, sprawled out on the spare seat of the gig beneath
a mass of warm rugs.

Between Littlehampton and Worthing is a lonely piece of road, long and dreary, through bleak
and bare open country, where the snow lay knee-deep, sparkling in the moonlight. It was so
cheerless that I turned round to speak to my dog, more for the sake of hearing the sound of
a voice than anything else. "Good Bose," I said, patting him, "there's a good dog!" Then suddenly
I noticed he shivered, and shrank underneath the wraps. Then the horse required my attention,
for he gave a start, and was going wrong, and had nearly taken me into the ditch.

Then I looked up. Walking at my horse's head, dressed in a sweeping robe, so white that it
shone dazzling against the white snow, I saw a lady, her back turned to me, her head bare;
her hair dishevelled and strayed, showing sharp and black against her white dress.

I was at first so much surprised at seeing a lady, so dressed, exposed to the open night, and
such a night as this, that I scarcely knew what to do. Recovering myself, I called out to know
if I could render assistance--if she wished to ride? No answer. I drove faster, the horse blinking,
and shying, and trembling the while, his ears laid back in abject terror. Still the figure
maintained its position close to my horse's head. Then I thought that what I saw was no woman,
but perchance a man disguised for the purpose of robbing me, seeking an opportunity to seize
the bridle and stop the horse. Filled with this idea, I said, "Good Bose! hi! look at it, boy!"
but the dog only shivered as if in fright. Then we came to a place where four cross-roads meet.

Determined to know the worst, I pulled up the horse. I fetched Bose, unwilling, out by the
ears. He was a good dog at anything from a rat to a man, but he slunk away that night into
the hedge, and lay there, his head between his paws, whining and howling. I walked straight
up to the figure, still standing by the horse's head. As I walked, the figure turned, and I
saw Harriet's face as plainly as I see you now--white and calm--placid, as idealised and beautified
by death. I must own that, though not a nervous man, in that instant I felt sick and faint.
Harriet looked me full in the face with a long, eager, silent look. I knew then it was her
spirit, and felt a strange calm come over me, for I knew it was nothing to harm me. When I
could speak, I asked what troubled her. She looked at me still, never changing that cold fixed
stare. Then I felt in my mind it was her children, and I said:

"Harriet! is it for your children you are troubled?"

No answer.

"Harriet," I continued, "if for these you are troubled, be assured they shall never want while
I have power to help them. Rest in peace!"

Still no answer.

I put up my hand to wipe from my forehead the cold perspiration which had gathered there. When
I took my hand away from shading my eyes, the figure was gone. I was alone on the bleak snow-covered
ground. The breeze, that had been hushed before, breathed coolly and gratefully on my face,
and the cold stars glimmered and sparkled sharply in the far blue heavens. My dog crept up
to me and furtively licked my hand, as who would say, "Good master, don't be angry. I have
served you in all but this."

I took the children and brought them up till they could help themselves.

XXIX

CAPTAIN WHEATCROFT

From DALE OWEN'S "Footfalls"

In the month of September 1857 Captain German Wheatcroft, of the 6th (Inniskilling) Dragoons,
went out to India to join his regiment.

His wife remained in England, residing at Cambridge. On the night between the 14th and 15th
of November 1857, towards morning, she dreamed that she saw her husband, looking anxious and
ill; upon which she immediately awoke, much agitated. It was bright moonlight; and, looking
up, she perceived the same figure standing by her bedside. He appeared in his uniform, the
hands pressed across the breast, the hair dishevelled, the face very pale. His large dark eyes
were fixed full upon her; their expression was that of great excitement, and there was a peculiar
contraction of the mouth, habitual to him when agitated. She saw him, even to each minute particular
of his dress, as distinctly as she had ever done in her life; and she remembers to have noticed
between his hands the white of his shirt-bosom, unstained, however, with blood. The figure
seemed to bend forward, as if in pain, and to make an effort to speak; but there was no sound.
It remained visible, the wife thinks, as long as a minute, and then disappeared.

Her first idea was to ascertain if she was actually awake. She rubbed her eyes with the sheet,
and felt that the touch was real. Her little nephew was in bed with her; she bent over the
sleeping child and listened to its breathing; the sound was distinct, and she became convinced
that what she had seen was no dream. It need hardly be added that she did not again go to sleep
that night.

Next morning she related all this to her mother, expressing her conviction, though she had
noticed no marks of blood on his dress, that Captain Wheatcroft was either killed or grievously
wounded. So fully impressed was she with the reality of that apparition, that she thenceforth
refused all invitations. A young friend urged her soon afterwards to go with her to a fashionable
concert, reminding her that she had received from Malta, sent by her husband, a handsome dress
cloak, which she had never yet worn. But she positively declined, declaring that, uncertain
as she was whether she was not already a widow, she would never enter a place of amusement
until she had letters from her husband (if indeed he still lived) of a later date than the
14th of November.

It was on a Tuesday, in the month of December 1857, that the telegram regarding the actual
fate of Captain Wheatcroft was published in London. It was to the effect that he was killed
before Lucknow on the fifteenth of November.

This news, given in the morning paper, attracted the attention of Mr Wilkinson, a London solicitor,
who had in charge Captain Wheatcroft's affairs. When at a later period this gentleman met the
widow, she informed him that she had been quite prepared for the melancholy news, but that
she had felt sure her husband could not have been killed on the 15th of November, inasmuch
as it was during the night between the 14th and 15th that he appeared to her.

The certificate from the War Office, however, which it became Mr Wilkinson's duty to obtain,
confirmed the date given in the telegram, its tenor being as follows:--

    "No. 9579/1       WAR OFFICE,
                       30th January 1858.

"These are to certify that it appears, by the records in this office, that Captain German Wheatcroft
of the 6th Dragoon Guards, was killed in action on the 15th of November 1857.

    "(Signed) B. HAWES."

The difference of longitude between London and Lucknow being about five hours, three or four
o'clock a.m. in London would be eight or nine o'clock a.m. at Lucknow. But it was in the afternoon
not in the morning, as will be seen in the sequel, that Captain Wheatcroft was killed. Had
he fallen on the 15th, therefore, the apparition to his wife would have appeared several hours
before the engagement in which he fell, and while he was yet alive and well.

XXX

THE IRON CAGE

From Mrs CROWE'S "Night Side of Nature"

[As you express a wish to know what credit is to be attached to a tale sent forth after a lapse
of between thirty and forty years, I will state the facts as they were recalled last year by
a daughter of Sir William A. C----.]

Sir James, my mother, with myself and my brother Charles, went abroad towards the end of the
year 1786. After trying several different places, we determined to settle at Lille, where we
had letters of introduction to several of the best French families. There Sir James left us,
and after passing a few days in an uncomfortable lodging, we engaged a nice large family house,
which we liked much, and which we obtained at a very low rent, even for that part of the world.

About three weeks after we were established there, I walked one day with my mother to the bankers,
for the purpose of delivering our letter of credit from Sir Robert Herries and drawing some
money, which being paid in heavy five-frank pieces, we found we could not carry, and therefore
requested the banker to send, saying, "We live in the Place du Lion d'Or." Whereupon he looked
surprised, and observed that he knew of no house there fit for us, "except, indeed," he added,
"the one that has been long uninhabited on account of the revenant that walks about it."

He said this quite seriously, and in a natural tone of voice; in spite of which we laughed,
and were quite entertained at the idea of a ghost; but, at the same time, we begged him not
to mention the thing to our servants, lest they should take any fancies into their heads; and
my mother and I resolved to say nothing about the matter to anyone. "I suppose it is the ghost,"
said my mother, laughing, "that wakes us so often by walking over our heads." We had, in fact,
been awakened several nights by a heavy foot, which we supposed to be that of one of the men-servants,
of whom we had three English and four French. The English ones, men and women, every one of
them, returned ultimately to England with us.

A night or two afterwards, being again awakened by the step, my mother asked Creswell: "Who
slept in the room above us?" "No one, my lady," she replied, "it is a large empty garret."

About a week or ten days after this, Creswell came to my mother, one morning, and told her
that all the French servants talked of going away, because there was a revenant in the house;
adding, that there seemed to be a strange story attached to the place, which was said, together
with some other property, to have belonged to a young man, whose guardian, who was also his
uncle, had treated him cruelly, and confined him in an iron cage; and as he had subsequently
disappeared, it was conjectured he had been murdered. This uncle, after inheriting the property,
had suddenly quitted the house, and sold it to the father of the man of whom we had hired it.
Since that period, though it had been several times let, nobody had ever stayed in it above
a week or two; and, for a considerable time past, it had had no tenant at all.

"And do you really believe all this nonsense, Creswell?" said my mother.

"Well, I don't know, my lady," answered she, "but there is the iron cage in the garret over
your bedroom, where you may see it, if you please."

Of course we rose to go, and just at that moment an old officer, with his Croix de St Louis,
called on us, we invited him to accompany us, and we ascended together. We found, as Creswell
had said, a large empty garret, with bare brick walls, and in the further corner of it stood
an iron cage, such as wild beasts are kept in, only higher; it was about four feet square,
and eight in height, and there was an iron ring in the wall at the back, to which was attached
an old rusty chain, with a collar fixed to the end of it! I confess it made my blood creep,
when I thought of the possibility of any human being having inhabited it! And our old friend
expressed as much horror as ourselves, assuring us that it must certainly have been constructed
for some such dreadful purpose. As, however, we were no believer in ghosts, we all agreed that
the noises must proceed from somebody who had an interest in keeping the house empty; and since
it was very disagreeable to imagine that there were secret means of entering it by night, we
resolved, as soon as possible, to look out for another residence, and, in the meantime, to
say nothing about the matter to anybody. About ten days after this determination, my mother,
observing one morning that Creswell, when she came to dress her, looked exceedingly pale and
ill, inquired if anything was the matter with her? "Indeed, my lady," answered she, "we have
been frightened to death; and neither I nor Mrs Marsh can sleep again in the room we are now in."

"Well," returned my mother, "you shall both come and sleep in the little spare room next us;
but what has alarmed you?"

"Someone, my lady, went through our room in the night; we both saw the figure, but we covered
our heads with the bed-clothes, and lay in a dreadful fright till morning."

On hearing this, I could not help laughing, upon which Creswell burst into tears; and seeing
how nervous she was, we comforted her by saying we had heard of a good house, and that we should
very soon abandon our present habitation.

A few nights afterwards, my mother requested me and Charles to go into her bedroom, and fetch
her frame, that she might prepare her work for the next day. It was after supper; and we were
ascending the stairs by the light of a lamp which was always kept burning, when we saw going
up before us, a tall, thin figure, with hair flowing down his back, and wearing a loose powdering
gown. We both at once concluded it was my sister Hannah, and called out: "It won't do, Hannah!
you cannot frighten us!" Upon which the figure turned into a recess in the wall; but as there
was nobody there when we passed, we concluded that Hannah had contrived, somehow or other,
to slip away and make her escape by the back stairs. On telling this to my mother, however,
she said, "It is very odd, for Hannah went to bed with a headache before you came in from your
walk"; and sure enough, on going to her room, there we found her fast asleep; and Alice, who
was at work there, assured us that she had been so for more than an hour. On mentioning this
circumstance to Creswell, she turned quite pale, and exclaimed that that was precisely the
figure she and Marsh had seen in their bedroom.

About this time my brother Harry came to spend a few days with us, and we gave him a room up
another pair of stairs, at the opposite end of the house. A morning or two after his arrival,
when he came down to breakfast, he asked my mother, angrily, whether she thought he went to
bed drunk and could not put out his own candle, that she sent those French rascals to watch
him. My mother assured him that she had never thought of doing such a thing; but he persisted
in the accusation, adding, "last night I jumped up and opened the door, and by the light of
the moon, through the skylight, I saw the fellow in his loose gown at the bottom of the stairs.
If I had not been in my shirt, I would have gone after him, and made him remember coming to
watch me."

We were now preparing to quit the house, having secured another, belonging to a gentleman who
was going to spend some time in Italy; but a few days before our removal, it happened that
a Mr and Mrs Atkyns, some English friends of ours, called, to whom we mentioned these strange
circumstances, observing how extremely unpleasant it was to live in a house that somebody found
means of getting into, though how they contrived it we could not discover, nor what their motive
could be, except it was to frighten us; observing that nobody could sleep in the room Marsh
and Creswell had been obliged to give up. Upon this, Mrs Atkyns laughed heartily, and said
that she should like, of all things, to sleep there, if my mother would allow her, adding that,
with her little terrier, she should not be afraid of any ghost that ever appeared. As my mother
had, of course, no objection to this fancy of hers, Mrs Atkyns requested her husband to ride
home with the groom, in order that the latter might bring her night-things before the gates
of the town were shut, as they were then residing a little way in the country. Mr Atkyns smiled,
and said she was very bold; but he made no difficulties, and sent the things, and his wife
retired with her dog to her room when we retired to ours, apparently without the least apprehension.

When she came down in the morning we were immediately struck at seeing her look very ill; and,
on inquiring if she, too, had been frightened, she said she had been awakened in the night
by something moving in her room, and that, by the light of the night lamp, she saw most distinctly
a figure, and that the dog, which was very spirited and flew at everything, never stirred,
although she endeavoured to make him. We saw clearly that she had been very much alarmed; and
when Mr Atkyns came and endeavoured to dissipate the feeling by persuading her that she might
have dreamt it, she got quite angry. We could not help thinking that she had actually seen
something; and my mother said, after she was gone, that though she could not bring herself
to believe it was really a ghost, still she earnestly hoped that she might get out of the house
without seeing this figure which frightened people so much.

We were now within three days of the one fixed for our removal; I had been taking a long ride,
and being tired, had fallen asleep the moment I lay down, but in the middle of the night I
was suddenly awakened--I cannot tell by what, for the step over our heads we had become so
used to that it no longer disturbed us. Well, I awoke; I had been lying with my face towards
my mother, who was asleep beside me, and, as one usually does on awaking, I turned to the other
side, where, the weather being warm, the curtain of the bed was undrawn, as it was also at
the foot, and I saw standing by a chest of drawers, which were betwixt me and the window, a
thin, tall figure, in a loose powdering gown, one arm resting on the drawers, and the face
turned towards me. I saw it quite distinctly by the night-light, which burnt clearly; it was
a long, thin, pale, young face, with oh! such a melancholy expression as can never be effaced
from my memory! I was, certainly, very much frightened; but my great horror was lest my mother
should awake and see the figure. I turned my head gently towards her, and heard her breathing
high in a sound sleep. Just then the clock on the stairs struck four. I daresay it was nearly
an hour before I ventured to look again; and when I did take courage to turn my eyes towards
the drawers there was nothing, yet I had not heard the slightest sound, though I had been listening
with the greatest intensity.

As you may suppose, I never closed my eyes again; and glad I was when Creswell knocked at the
door, as she did every morning, for we always locked it, and it was my business to get out
of bed and let her in. But on this occasion, instead of doing so, I called out, "Come in, the
door is not fastened"; upon which she answered that it was, and I was obliged to get out of
bed and admit her as usual.

When I told my mother what had happened she was very grateful to me for not waking her, and
commended me much for my resolution; but as she was always my first object, that was not to
be wondered at. She, however, resolved not to risk another night in the house, and we got out
of it that very day, after instituting, with the aid of the servants, a thorough search, with
a view to ascertain whether there was any possible means of getting into the rooms except by
the usual modes of ingress; but our search was vain; none could be discovered.

Considering the number of people that were in the house, the fearlessness of the family, and
their disinclination to believe in what is called the supernatural, together with the great
interest the owner of this large and handsome house must have had in discovering the trick,
if there had been one, I think it is difficult to find any other explanation of this strange
story than that the sad and disappointed spirit of this poor injured, and probably murdered
boy, had never been disengaged from its earthly relations, to which regret for its frustrated
hopes and violated rights still held it attached.

XXXI

THE GHOST OF ROSEWARNE

From HUNT'S "Romances of the West of England"

"Ezekiel Grosse, gent., attorney-at-law," bought the lands of Rosewarne from one of the De
Rosewarnes, who had become involved in debt by endeavouring, without sufficient means, to support
the dignity of his family. There is reason for believing that Ezekiel was the legal adviser
of this unfortunate Rosewarne, and that he was not over-honest in his transactions with his
client. However this may be, Ezekiel Grosse had scarcely made Rosewarne his dwelling-place,
before he was alarmed by noises, at first of an unearthly character, and subsequently, one
very dark night, by the appearance of the ghost himself in the form of a worn and aged man.
The first appearance was in the park, but he subsequently repeated his visits in the house,
but always after dark. Ezekiel Grosse was not a man to be terrified at trifles, and for some
time he paid but slight attention to his nocturnal visitor. Howbeit the repetition of visits,
and certain mysterious indications on the part of the ghost, became annoying to Ezekiel. One
night, when seated in his office examining some deeds, and being rather irritable, having lost
an important suit, his visitor approached him, making some strange indications which the lawyer
could not understand. Ezekiel suddenly exclaimed, "In the name of God, what wantest thou?"

"To show thee, Ezekiel Grosse, where the gold for which thou longest lies buried."

No one ever lived upon whom the greed of gold was stronger than on Ezekiel, yet he hesitated
now that his spectral friend had spoken so plainly, and trembled in every limb as the ghost
slowly delivered himself in sepulchral tones of this telling speech.

The lawyer looked fixedly on the spectre; but he dared not utter a word. He longed to obtain
possession of the secret, yet he feared to ask him where he was to find this treasure. The
spectre looked as fixedly at the poor trembling lawyer, as if enjoying the sight of his terror.
At length, lifting his finger, he beckoned Ezekiel to follow him, turning at the same time
to leave the room. Ezekiel was glued to his seat; he could not exert strength enough to move,
although he desired to do so.

"Come!" said the ghost, in a hollow voice. The lawyer was powerless to come.

"Gold!" exclaimed the old man, in a whining tone, though in a louder key.

"Where?" gasped Ezekiel.

"Follow me, and I will show thee," said the ghost. Ezekiel endeavoured to rise; but it was in vain.

"I command thee, come!" almost shrieked the ghost. Ezekiel felt that he was compelled to follow
his friend; and by some supernatural power rather than his own, he followed the spectre out
of the room, and through the hall, into the park.

They passed onward through the night--the ghost gliding before the lawyer, and guiding him
by a peculiar phosphorescent light, which appeared to glow from every part of the form, until
they arrived at a little dell, and had reached a small cairn formed of granite boulders. By
this the spectre rested; and when Ezekiel had approached it, and was standing on the other
side of the cairn, still trembling, the aged man, looking fixedly in his face, said, in low
tones, "Ezekiel Grosse, thou longest for gold, as I did. I won the glittering prize, but I
could not enjoy it. Heaps of treasure are buried beneath those stones; it is thine, if thou
diggest for it. Win the gold, Ezekiel. Glitter with the wicked ones of the world; and when
thou art the most joyous, I will look in upon thy happiness." The ghost then disappeared, and
as soon as Grosse could recover himself from the extreme trepidation,--the result of mixed
feelings,--he looked about him, and finding himself alone, he exclaimed, "Ghost or devil, I
will soon prove whether or not thou liest!" Ezekiel is said to have heard a laugh, echoing
between the hills, as he said those words.

The lawyer noted well the spot; returned to his house; pondered on all the circumstances of
his case; and eventually resolved to seize the earliest opportunity, when he might do so unobserved,
of removing the stones, and examining the ground beneath them.

A few nights after this, Ezekiel went to the little cairn, and by the aid of a crowbar, he
soon overturned the stones, and laid the ground bare. He then commenced digging, and had not
proceeded far when his spade struck against some other metal. He carefully cleared away the
earth, and he then felt--for he could not see, having no light with him--that he had uncovered
a metallic urn of some kind. He found it quite impossible to lift it, and he was therefore
compelled to cover it up again, and to replace the stones sufficiently to hide it from the
observation of any chance wanderer.

The next night Ezekiel found that this urn, which was of bronze, contained gold coins of a
very ancient date. He loaded himself with his treasure, and returned home. From time to time,
at night, as Ezekiel found he could do so without exciting the suspicions of his servants,
he visited the urn, and thus by degrees removed all the treasure to Rosewarne House. There
was nothing in the series of circumstances which had surrounded Ezekiel which he could less
understand than the fact, that the ghost of the old man had left off troubling him from the
moment when he had disclosed to him the hiding-place of this treasure.

The neighbouring gentry could not but observe the rapid improvements which Ezekiel Grosse made
in his mansion, his grounds, in his personal appearance, and indeed in everything by which
he was surrounded. In a short time he abandoned the law, and led in every respect the life
of a country gentleman. He ostentatiously paraded his power to procure all earthly enjoyments,
and, in spite of his notoriously bad character, he succeeded in drawing many of the landed
proprietors around him.

Things went well with Ezekiel. The man who could in those days visit London in his own carriage
and four was not without a large circle of flatterers. The lawyer who had struggled hard, in
the outset of life, to secure wealth, and who did not always employ the most honest means for
doing so, now found himself the centre of a circle to whom he could preach honesty, and receive
from them expressions of the admiration in which the world holds the possessor of gold. His
old tricks were forgotten, and he was put in places of honour. This state of things continued
for some time; indeed, Grosse's entertainments became more and more splendid, and his revels
more and more seductive to those he admitted to share them with him. The Lord of Rosewarne
was the Lord of the West. To him everyone bowed the knee: he walked the earth as the proud
possessor of a large share of the planet.

It was Christmas Eve, and a large gathering there was at Rosewarne. In the hall the ladies
and gentlemen were in the full enjoyment of the dance, and in the kitchen all the tenantry
and the servants were emulating their superiors. Everything went joyously; but when the mirth
was in full swing, and Ezekiel felt to the full the influence of wealth, it appeared as if
all in a moment the chill of death had fallen over everyone. The dancers paused, and looked
one at another, each one struck with the other's paleness; and there, in the middle of the
hall, everyone saw a strange old man looking angrily, but in silence, at Ezekiel Grosse, who
was fixed in terror, blank as a statue.

No one had seen this old man enter the hall, yet there he was in the midst of them. It was
but for a minute, and he was gone. Ezekiel, as if a frozen torrent of water had thawed in an
instant, recovered himself, and roared at them.

"What do you think of that for a Christmas play? Ha, ha, ha! How frightened you all look! Butler,
hand round the spiced wines! On with the dancing, my friends! It was only a trick, ay, and
a clever one, which I have put upon you. On with your dancing, my friends!"

But with all his boisterous attempts to restore the spirit of the evening, Ezekiel could not
succeed. There was an influence stronger than any he could command; and one by one, framing
sundry excuses, his guests took their departure, every one of them satisfied that all was not
right at Rosewarne.

From that Christmas Eve Grosse was a changed man. He tried to be his former self; but it was
in vain. Again and again he called his gay companions around him; but at every feast there
appeared one more than was desired. An aged man--weird beyond measure--took his place at the
table in the middle of the feast; and although he spoke not, he exerted a miraculous power
over all. No one dared to move; no one ventured to speak. Occasionally Ezekiel assumed an appearance
of courage, which he felt not; rallied his guests, and made sundry excuses for the presence
of his aged friend, whom he represented as having a mental infirmity, as being deaf and dumb.
On all such occasions the old man rose from the table, and looking at the host, laughed a demoniac
laugh of joy, and departed as quietly as he came.

The natural consequence of this was that Ezekiel Grosse's friends fell away from him, and he
became a lonely man, amidst his vast possessions--his only companion being his faithful clerk,
John Call.

The persecuting presence of the spectre became more and more constant; and wherever the poor
lawyer went, there was the aged man at his side. From being one of the finest men in the county,
he became a miserably attenuated and bowed old man. Misery was stamped on every feature--terror
was indicated in every movement. At length he appears to have besought his ghostly attendant
to free him of his presence. It was long before the ghost would listen to any terms; but when
Ezekiel at length agreed to surrender the whole of his wealth to anyone whom the spectre might
indicate, he obtained a promise that upon this being carried out, in a perfectly legal manner,
in favour of John Call, that he should no longer be haunted.

This was, after numerous struggles on the part of Ezekiel to retain his property, or at least
some portion of it, legally settled, and John Call became possessor of Rosewarne and the adjoining
lands. Grosse was then informed that this evil spirit was one of the ancestors of the Rosewarne,
from whom by his fraudulent dealings he obtained the place, and that he was allowed to visit
the earth again for the purpose of inflicting the most condign punishment on the avaricious
lawyer. His avarice had been gratified, his pride had been pampered to the highest; and then
he was made a pitiful spectacle, at whom all men pointed, and no one pitied. He lived on in
misery, but it was for a short time. He was found dead; and the country people ever said that
his death was a violent one; they spoke of marks on his body, and some even asserted that the
spectre of De Rosewarne was seen rejoicing amidst a crowd of devils, as they bore the spirit
of Ezekiel over Carn Brea.

XXXII

THE IRON CHEST OF DURLEY

By JOSEPH GLANVIL[12]

Mr John Bourne, for his Skill, Care and Honesty, was made by his Neighbour John Mallet, Esq.,
of Enmore, the chief of his Trustees, for his Son John Mallet (Father to Elizabeth, now Countess
Dowager of Rochester) and the rest of his Children in Minority. He had the reputation of a
worthy good Man, and was commonly taken notice of for an habitual Saying, by way of Interjection
almost to anything, viz. You say true, you say true, you are in the right. This Mr Bourne fell
sick at his House at Durley, in the year 1654, and Dr Raymond of Oak was sent for to him, who
after some time, gave the said Mr Bourne over. And he had not now spoken in twenty-four Hours,
when the said Dr Raymond, and Mrs Carlisle (Mr Bourne's Nephew's Wife, whose Husband he had
made one of his Heirs) sitting by his bedside, the Doctor opened the Bed-curtains at the Bed's-feet,
to give him air; when on a sudden, to the Horror and Amazement of Dr Raymond, and Mrs Carlisle,
the great Iron Chest by the Window, at his Bed's-feet, with three Locks to it (in which were
all the Writings and Evidences of the said Mr Mallet's Estate), began to open, first one Lock,
and then another, then the third; afterwards the Lid of the Chest, lifted up of itself, and
stood wide open. Then the patient, Mr Bourne, who had not spoke in 24 Hours, lifted himself
up also, and looking upon the Chest, cry'd: You say true, you say true, you are in the right,
I'll be with you by and by. So the Patient lay down, and spake no more. Then the Chest fell
again of itself, and lock'd itself, one Lock after another, as the 3 Locks opened; and they
tried to knock it open, and could not, and Mr Bourne died within an Hour after.

N.B.--This Narrative was sent in a Letter to J.C., directed for Dr H. More from Mr Thomas Alcock,
of Shear-Hampton; of which in a Letter to the said Doctor, he gives this Account. I am, said
he, very confident of the truth of the Story; for I had it from a very good Lady, the eldest
daughter of the said John Mallet (whose Trustee Mr Bourne was) and only Aunt to the Countess
of Rochester, who knew all the parties; and I have heard Dr Raymond, and Mr Carlisle, relate
it often with amazement, being both Persons of Credit.

The curious may be inquisitive what the meaning of the opening of the Chest may be, and of
Mr Bourne his saying You say true, etc., I'll be with you by and by. As for the former, it
is noted by Paracelsus especially, and by others, that there are signs often given of the Departure
of sick Men lying on their death beds, of which this opening of the Iron Coffer or Chest, and
closing again, is more than ordinary significant, especially if we recall to mind that of Virgil:

    "Olli dura quies oculos & ferreus urget
    Somnus----"

Though this quaintness is more than is requisite in these Prodigies presaging the sick Man's
Death. As for the latter, it seems to be nothing else but the saying Amen to the Presage, uttered
in his accustomary form of Speech, as if he should say, you of the invisible Kingdom of Spirits,
have given the Token of my sudden Departure, and you say true, I shall be with you by and by.
Which he was enabled so assuredly to assent to, upon the advantage of the relaxation of his
Soul now departing from the Body: Which Diodorus Siculus, lib. 18, notes to be the Opinion
of Pythagoras and his followers, that it is the privilege of the Soul near her Departure, to
exercise a fatidical Faculty, and to pronounce truly touching things future.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 12: Sadducismus Triumphatus.]

XXXIII

THE STRANGE CASE OF M. BEZUEL

From CHRISTMAS' "Phantom World"

XXXIV

THE MARQUIS DE RAMBOUILLET

"The Phantom World"

XXXV

THE ALTHEIM REVENANT

"The Phantom World"

XXXVII

ERICHTHO

By E.W. GODWIN.

III

OMENS AND PHANTASMS

XXXVIII

PATROKLOS

HOMER'S Iliad (E.H. Blakeney's translation[13])

Then there came unto him the ghost of poor Patroklos, in all things like unto the very man,
in stature, and fair eyes, and voice; and he was arrayed in vesture such as in life he wore.
He stood above the hero's head and challenged him:--

"Thou sleepest, Achilles, unmindful of me. Not in my lifetime wert thou neglectful, but in
death. Bury me with all speed; let me pass the gates of Hades. Far off the souls, wraiths of
the dead, keep me back, nor suffer me yet to join them beyond the river; forlorn I wander up
and down the wide-doored house of Hades. And now give me thy hand, I entreat; for never more
shall I return from Hades, when once ye have given me my meed of fire. Nay, never more shall
we sit, at least in life, apart from our comrades, taking counsel together; but upon me hateful
doom hath gaped--doom which was my portion even at birth. Aye and to thee thyself also, Achilles,
thou peer of the gods, it is fated to perish beneath the wall of the wealthy Trojans. Another
thing I will tell thee, and will straitly charge thee, if peradventure thou wilt hearken: lay
not my bones apart from thine, Achilles, but side by side; for we were brought up together
in thy house, when Menoitios brought me, a child, from Opöeis to thy father's house because
of woeful bloodshed on the day when I slew the son of Amphidamas, myself a child, unwittingly,
but in wrath over our games. Then did Peleus, the knight, take me into his home and rear me
kindly and name me thy squire. So let one urn also hide the bones of us both."

And swift-footed Achilles answered him and said:--

"Why, dearest and best-beloved, hast thou come hither to lay upon me these thy several behests?
Of a truth I will accomplish all, and bow to thy command. But stand nearer, I pray; for a little
space let us cast our arms about each other, and take our fill of dire sorrow."

With these words he stretched forth his hands to clasp him, but could not; for, like a smoke,
the spirit vanished earthward with a wailing cry. Amazed, Achilles sprang up, and smote his
hands together, and spake a piteous word:--

"O ye heavens! surely, even among the dead, the soul and wraith are something (yet is there
no life therein at all). For all night long the soul of poor Patroklos stood beside me, crying
and making lamentation, and bade me do his will; it was the perfect image of himself."

So he spake, and in the hearts of them all roused desire for lamentation; and while they yet
were mourning about the pitiful corpse appeared rosy-fingered dawn.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 13: George Bell & Sons.]

XXXIX

VISION OF CROMWELL

By "ARISE EVANS"

A vision that I had presently after the king's death--I thought that I was in a great hall,
like the king's hall, or the castle in Winchester, and there was none there but a judge that
sat upon the bench and myself; and as I turned to a window in the north-westward, and looking
into the palm of my hand, there appeared to me a face, head and shoulders like the Lord Fairfax's,
and presently it vanished. Then I turned to the judge and said to him, there arose in my hand
seven, and five of them had crowns; but when I turned my hand, the blood turned to its veins,
and these appeared no more: so I awoke. The interpretation of this vision is, that after the
Lord Cromwell, there shall be kings again in England, which thing is signified unto us by those
that arose after him, who were all crowned, but the generations to come may look for a change
of the blood, and of the name in the royal seat, after five kings once passed, 2 Kings x. 30.
(The words referred to in this text are these:) "And the Lord said unto Jehu, because thou
hast done well, etc., thy children of the fourth generation shall sit upon the throne of Israel."

XL

LORD STRAFFORD'S WARNING

By the Rev. JOHN MASTIN

In the Rev. John Mastin's History of Naseby is cited a story of an apparition that was supposed
to have appeared to Charles the First at Daintree, near Naseby, previous to the famous battle
of that name.

The army of Charles, says the historian, consisting of less than 5000 foot, and about as many
horse, was ordered to Daintree, whither the King went with a thorough resolution of fighting.
The next day, however, to the surprise of Prince Rupert and all the rest of the army, this
design was given up, and the former one of going to the north resumed. The reason of this alteration
in his plans was alleged to be some presages of ill-fortune which the King had received, and
which were related to me, says Mr Mastin's authority, by a person of Newark, at that time in
His Majesty's horse. About two hours after the King had retired to rest, said the narrator,
some of his attendants hearing an uncommon noise in his chamber, went into it, where they found
His Majesty sitting up in bed and much agitated, but nothing which could have produced the
noise they fancied they had heard. The King, in a tremulous voice, inquired after the cause
of their alarm, and told them how much he had been disturbed, apparently by a dream, by thinking
he had seen an apparition of Lord Strafford, who, after upbraiding him for his cruelty, told
him he was come to return him good for evil, and that he advised him by no means to fight the
Parliament army that was at that time quartered at Northampton, for it was one which the King
could never conquer by arms. Prince Rupert, in whom courage was the predominant quality, rated
the King out of his apprehensions the next day, and a resolution was again taken to meet the
enemy. The next night, however, the apparition appeared to him a second time, but with looks
of anger assuring him that would be the last advice he should be permitted to give him, but
that if he kept his resolution of fighting he was undone. If His Majesty had taken the advice
of the friendly ghost, and marched northward the next day, where the Parliament had few English
forces, and where the Scots were becoming very discontented, his affairs might, perhaps, still
have had a prosperous issue, or if he had marched immediately into the west he might afterwards
have fought on more equal terms. But the King, fluctuating between the apprehensions of his
imagination and the reproaches of his courage, remained another whole day at Daintree in a
state of inactivity. The battle of Naseby, fought 14th June 1645, put a finishing stroke to
the King's affairs. After this he could never get together an army fit to look the enemy in
the face. He was often heard to say that he wished he had taken the warning, and not fought
at Naseby; the meaning of which nobody knew but those to whom he had told of the apparition
which he had seen at Daintree, and all of whom were, subsequently, charged to keep the affair
secret.

XLI

KOTTER'S RED CIRCLE

From FERRIER'S "Apparitions"

Kotter's first vision was detailed by him, on oath, before the magistrates of Sprottaw, in
1619. While he was travelling on foot, in open daylight, in June 1616, a man appeared to him,
who ordered him to inform the civil and ecclesiastical authorities, that great evils were impending
over Germany, for the punishment of the sins of the people; after which he vanished. The same
apparition met him at different times, and compelled him at length, by threats, to make this
public declaration.

After this, his visions assumed a more imposing appearance: on one occasion the angel (for
such he was now confessed to be) showed him three suns, filling one half of the heavens; and
nine moons, with their horns turned towards the east, filling the other half. At the same time,
a superb fountain of pure water spouted from the arid soil, under his feet.

At another time, he beheld a mighty lion, treading on the moon, and seven other lions around
him, in the clouds.

Sometimes he beheld the encounter of hostile armies, splendidly accoutred; sometimes he wandered
through palaces, whose only inhabitants were devouring monsters; or beheld dragons of enormous
size, in various scenes of action.

He was at length attended by two angels, in his ecstasy; one of his visions at this time was
of the most formidable and impressive kind. "On the 13th day of September, says he, both the
youths returned to me, saying, be not afraid, but observe the thing which will be shewn to
thee. And I suddenly beheld a circle, like the sun, red, and as it were, bloody: in which were
black and white lines, or spots, so intermingled, that sometimes there appeared a greater number
of blacks, sometimes of white; and this sight continued for some space of time. And when they
had said to me, Behold! Attend! Fear not! No evil will befal thee! Lo, there were three successive
peals of thunder, at short intervals, so loud and dreadful, that I shuddered all over. But
the circle stood before me, and the black and white spots were disunited, and the circle approached
so near that I could have touched it with my hand. And it was so beautiful, that I had never
in my life seen any thing more agreeable: and the white spots were so bright and pleasant,
that I could not contain my admiration. But the black spots were carried away in cloud of horrible
darkness, in which I heard a dismal outcry, though I could see no one. Yet these words of lamentation
were audible: Woe unto us, who have committed ourselves unto the black cloud, to be withdrawn
from the circle coloured with the blood of divine grace, in which the grace of God, in his
well-beloved Son, had inclosed us."

After several other piteous exclamations, he saw a procession of many thousand persons, bearing
palms, and singing hymns, but of very small stature, enter the red circle, from the black cloud,
chanting halleluiah.

XLII

THE VISION OF CHARLES XI. OF SWEDEN

From a Procés-verbal

The authenticity of the following narrative rests upon a procés-verbal, drawn out in form,
and attested by the signatures of four credible witnesses.

Charles XI. was one of the most despotic and, at the same time, one of the ablest monarchs
that ever ruled the destinies of Sweden. History represents him as brave and enlightened, but
of a harsh and inflexible disposition; regulating his opinions by positive facts, and wholly
ungifted with imagination. At the period of which we are about to speak, death had bereaved
him of his Queen, Ulrica Eleonora. Notwithstanding the harshness which had marked his conduct
to the Princess during her lifetime, and which, in the opinion of his subjects, had precipitated
her into the grave, Charles revered her memory, and appeared more affected by her loss than
might have been imagined from the natural sternness of his character. Subsequently to this
event, he became more gloomy and taciturn than before, and devoted himself to study with an
intensity of application that evinced his anxiety to escape the tortures of his own painful
reflections. Towards the close of a dreary autumnal evening, the king, in slippers and robe
de chambre, was seated before a large fire, in a private cabinet of his palace at Stockholm.
Near him were his grand chamberlain, the Count de Brahe, who was honoured with the favourite
estimation of his sovereign, and the principal state physician, Baumgarten, a learned disciple
of Hippocrates, who aimed at the reputation of an esprit fort, and who would have pardoned
a disbelief in anything except in the efficacy of his own prescriptions. The last-mentioned
personage had on that evening been hastily summoned to the presence of the monarch, who felt
or fancied himself in need of his professional skill. The evening was already far advanced,
and the king, contrary to his wont, delayed bidding the customary "goodnight to all,"--the
well-understood signal at which his guests always retired. With his head bent down, and his
eyes fixed upon the decaying embers, that gradually withdrew even their mockery of warmth from
the spacious fireplace, he maintained a strict silence, evidently fatigued with his company,
yet dreading, though he scarcely knew why, to be left alone. The grand chamberlain, who perceived
that even his profound remarks failed to excite the attention of the monarch, ventured to hint
that his majesty would do well to seek repose; a gesture of the king retained him in his place.
The physician, in his turn, hazarded a casual observation on the injurious tendency of late
hours. The significant innuendoes were, however, thrown away on Charles, who replied to them
by muttering between his teeth, "You may remain; I have no wish to sleep." This permission,
with which the drowsy courtiers would willingly have dispensed, but which was really equivalent
to a command, was succeeded by an attempt on their part to enliven his majesty with different
subjects of conversation. No topic, however, that they introduced could outlive the second
or third phrase. The king was in one of his gloomy moods; for royalty, with reverence be it
spoken, has its moments of merriment and ill-humour, its mixture of sunshine and of cloud;
and be it known to thee, gentle reader, that ticklish is the position of a courtier when majesty
is in the dumps. To mend, or rather to mar the matter, the grand chamberlain, imagining that
the sadness which overshadowed the royal brow came from regret, fixed his eyes upon a portrait
of the queen, hung up in the cabinet, and with a sigh of pathos exclaimed, "How striking the
resemblance! and who could not recognise the expression of majesty and gentleness, that----"
"Fudge!" cried the king. Conscience had probably something to do with the abruptness of the
exclamation. The old chamberlain had unwittingly touched a tender chord; every allusion to
the queen appearing like a tacit reproach to the august and widowed spouse. "That portrait,"
added the king, "is too flattering, the queen was far from handsome"; then, as if inwardly
repentant of his harshness, he rose from his seat and paced the apartment with hasty strides,
to conceal the tears that had well-nigh betrayed his emotion. He sat in the embrasure of a
window which looked upon the court; the moon was obscured by a thick veil of clouds; not even
a solitary star twinkled through the darkness. The palace at present inhabited by the kings
of Sweden was not at that time finished; and Charles XI., in whose reign it had been commenced,
usually resided in an old-fashioned edifice, built something in the shape of a horseshoe, and
situated at the point of Ritterholm, commanding a view of Lake Mader. The royal cabinet was
at one of the extremities, nearly opposite to the grand hall or council-chamber, in which the
States were accustomed to assemble when a message or communication from the crown was expected.
Just at this moment the windows of the council-chamber appeared brilliantly illuminated. The
king was lost in surprise. He at first imagined the light to proceed from the torch of some
domestic. Yet what could occasion so unseasonable a visit to a place that for a considerable
time had been closed? Besides, the light was too vivid to be produced by one single torch,
it might have been attributed to a conflagration; but no smoke was perceptible, no noise was
heard, the window glasses were not broken, everything in short seemed to indicate an illumination,
such as takes place on public and solemn occasions. Charles, without uttering a word, remained
gazing at the windows of the council-chamber. The Count Brahe, who had already grasped the
bell-cord, was on the point of summoning a page, in order to ascertain the cause of this singular
illumination, when the king suddenly prevented him. "I will visit the chamber myself," said
his majesty; the seriousness of his deportment and the paleness of his countenance indicating
a strange mixture of determination and superstitious awe. He quitted the cabinet with the unhesitating
step of one resolved to obtain mastery over himself; the legislator of etiquette, and the regulator
of bodies, each with a lighted taper, followed him with fear and trembling. The keeper of the
keys had already retired to rest; Baumgarten was despatched by the king to awaken him, and
to order him forthwith to open the doors of the council-chamber. Unbounded was the worthy keeper's
surprise at the unexpected intimation. Benign Providence, however, has ordained monarchs to
command, and created keepers of keys to obey. The prudent Cerberus yawned, dressed himself
in haste, and presented himself before his sovereign with the insignia of his office, a bunch
of keys of various dimensions suspended at his girdle. He commenced by opening the door of
a gallery, which served as a sort of ante-room to the council-chamber. The king entered; but
his astonishment may be conceived, on finding the walls of the building entirely hung with
black. "By whose order has this been done?" demanded the king in a tone of anger. "Sire," replied
the trembling keeper of the keys, "I am ignorant; the last time the gallery was opened it was
wainscoted with oak, as usual, most assuredly these hangings are not from your majesty's wardrobe."
The king, however, had by this time traversed at a rapid pace two-thirds of the gallery, without
stopping to avail himself of the worshipful warden's conjectures. The latter personage and
the grand chamberlain followed his majesty, whilst the learned doctor lingered a little in
the rear. "Sire," cried the keeper of the keys, "I beseech your majesty to go no farther. As
I have a living soul, there is witchcraft in this matter. At this hour ... and since the death
of the queen, God be gracious to us! It is said that her majesty walks every night in this
gallery." "Hold, Sire!" cried the Count in his turn, "do you not hear a strange noise which
seems to proceed from the council-chamber? Who can foresee the danger to which your majesty
may expose your sacred person?" "Forward!" replied the resolute monarch in an imperative tone;
and as he stopped before the door of the council-chamber, "Quick! your keys!" said he to the
keeper. He pushed the door violently with his foot, and the noise, repeated by the echoes of
the vaulted roof, resounded through the gallery like the report of a cannon. The old keeper
trembled; he tried one key, then another, but without success; his hand shook, his sight was
confused. "A soldier, and afraid?" cried Charles with a smile. "Come, Count, you must be our
usher: open that door." "Sire," replied the grand chamberlain stepping backwards, "if your
majesty command me to walk up to the mouth of a Danish cannon, I will obey on the instant;
but you will not order me to combat with the devil and his imps?" The monarch snatched the
keys from the palsied hands of the infirm old keeper. "I see," said his majesty in a tone of
contempt, "that I must finish this adventure"; and before his terrified suite could prevent
his design, he had already opened the massy oaken door, and penetrated into the council-chamber,
first pronouncing the usual formula, "with the help of God." The companions of his midnight
excursion entered along with him, prompted by a sentiment of curiosity, stronger on this occasion
even than terror; their courage too was reinforced by a feeling of shame, which forbade them
to abandon their sovereign in the hour of peril. The council-chamber was illuminated with an
immense number of torches. The ancient figured tapestry had been replaced by a black drapery
suspended on the walls, along which were ranged, in regular order, and according to the custom
of those days, German, Danish, and Muscovite banners, trophies of the victories won by the
soldiers of Gustavus Adolphus. In the middle were distinguished the banners of Sweden, covered
with black crape. A numerous assemblage was seated on the benches of the hall. The four orders
of the state--the nobility, the clergy, the citizens, and the peasants,--were ranged according
to the respective disposition assigned to each. All were clothed in black; and the multitude
of human faces, that shone like so many luminous rays upon a dark ground, dazzled the sight
to such a degree that, of the four individuals who witnessed this extraordinary scene, not
one could discern amidst the crowd a countenance with which he was familiar; the position of
the four spectators might have been compared to that of actors, who, in presence of a numerous
audience, were incapable of distinguishing a single face among the confused mass. On the elevated
throne whence the monarch habitually harangued the assembly of the States, was seated a bleeding
corpse, invested with the emblems of royalty. On the right of this apparition stood a child,
a crown upon his head and the sceptre in his hand; on the left an aged man, or rather another
phantom, leaned upon the throne, opposite to which were several personages of austere and solemn
demeanour, clothed in long black robes, and seated before a table covered with thick folios
and parchments; from the gravity of their deportment the latter seemed to be judges. Between
the throne and the portion of the council-chamber above which it was elevated, were placed
an axe and a block covered with black crape. In this unearthly assembly none seemed at all
conscious of the presence of Charles, or of the three individuals by whom he was accompanied.
At last the oldest of the judges in black robes--he who appeared to discharge the functions
of president--rising with dignity, struck three times with his hand upon an open folio. Profound
silence immediately succeeded; some youths of distinguished appearance, richly dressed, and
with their hands fettered behind their backs, were led into the council-chamber by a door opposite
to that which Charles had opened. Behind them a man of vigrous mould held the extremity of
the cord with which their hands were pinioned. The prisoner who marched in the foremost rank,
and whose air was more imposing than that of the others, stopped in the midst of the council-chamber
before the block which he seemed to contemplate with haughty disdain. At the same instant the
corse seated on the throne was agitated by a convulsive tremor, and the purple tide flowed
afresh from his wounds. The youthful prisoner knelt upon the ground, and laid his head upon
the block; the fatal axe glittering in the air descended swiftly; a stream of blood forced
its way even to the platform of the throne, and mingled with that of the royal corse; whilst
the head of the victim, rebounding from the crimson pavement, rolled to the feet of Charles,
and stained them with blood. Hitherto, astonishment had rendered the monarch dumb; but at this
horrid spectacle his tongue was unloosed. He advanced a few steps towards the platform, and
addressing himself to the apparition on the left of the corse, boldly pronounced the customary
abjuration, "If thou art of God, speak; if of the Evil One, depart in peace." The phantom replied
in slow and emphatic accents, "Charles, not under thy reign shall this blood be shed [here
the voice became indistinct]; five monarchs succeeding thee shall first sit on the throne of
Sweden. Woe, woe, woe to the blood of Wasa!" Upon this the numerous figures composing this
extraordinary assemblage became less distinct, till at last they resembled a mass of coloured
shadows, soon after which they disappeared altogether. The fantastic torches were extinguished
of themselves, and those of Charles and his suite cast their dim, flickering light upon the
old-fashioned tapestry with which the chamber was usually hung, and which was now slightly
moved by the wind. During some minutes longer a strange sort of melody was heard, a harmony
compared by one of the eye-witnesses of this unparalleled scene to the murmur of the breeze
agitating the foliage, and by another to the sound emitted by the breaking of a harp-string.
All agreed upon one point, the duration of the apparition, which they stated to have lasted
about ten minutes. The black drapery, the decapitated victim, the stream of blood which had
inundated the platform, all had disappeared with the phantoms; every trace had vanished except
a crimson spot, which still stained the slipper of Charles, and which alone would have sufficed
to remind him of the horrid vision, had it been possible for any effort to erase it from his
memory. Returning to his private cabinet, the king committed to paper an exact relation of
what he had seen, signed it, and ordered his companions to do the same. Spite of the precautions
taken to conceal the contents of this statement from the public, they soon transpired, and
were generally known, even during the lifetime of Charles XI. The original document is still
in existence, and its authenticity has never been questioned; it concludes with the following
remarkable words:--"If," says the king, "all that I have just declared is not the exact truth,
I renounce my hopes of a happier existence which I may have merited by some good actions, and
by my zeal for the welfare of my people and for the maintenance of the religion of my fathers."
If the reader will call to mind the death of Gustavus III., and the trial of his assassin,
Ankarstroem, he will observe the intimate connection between these events and the circumstances
of the extraordinary prediction which we have just detailed. The apparition of the young man
beheaded in the presence of the assembled States prognosticated the execution of Ankarstroem.
The crowned corse represented Gustavus III., the child, his son and successor, Gustavus Adolphus
IV.; and lastly, by the old man was designated the uncle of Gustavus IV., the Duke of Sudermania,
regent of the kingdom and afterwards king, upon the deposition of his nephew.

XLIII

BEN JONSON'S PREVISION

DRUMMOND'S "Conversations"

XLIV

QUEEN ULRICA AND THE COUNTESS STEENBOCK

"Court Records"

When Queen Ulrica was dead, her corpse was placed in the usual way in an open coffin, in a
room hung with black and lighted with numerous wax candles; a company of the king's guards
did duty in the ante-room. One afternoon, the carriage of the Countess Steenbock, first lady
of the palace, and a particular favourite of the queen's, drove up from Stockholm. The officers
commanding the guard of honour went to meet the countess, and conducted her from the carriage
to the door of the room where the dead queen lay, which she closed after her.

The long stay of the lady in the death-chamber caused some uneasiness; but it was ascribed
to the vehemence of her grief; and the officers on duty, fearful of disturbing the further
effusion of it by their presence, left her alone with the corpse. At length, finding that she
did not return, they began to apprehend that some accident had befallen her, and the captain
of the guard opened the door. He instantly started back, with a face of the utmost dismay.
The other officers ran up, and plainly perceived, through the half-open door, the deceased
queen standing upright in her coffin, and ardently embracing the countess. The apparition seemed
to move, and soon after became enveloped in a dense smoke or vapour. When this had cleared
away, the body of the queen lay in the same position as before, but the countess was nowhere
to be found. In vain did they search that and the adjoining apartments, while some of the party
hastened to the door, thinking she must have passed unobserved to her carriage; but neither
carriage, horses, driver, or footmen were to be seen. A messenger was quickly despatched with
a statement of this extraordinary circumstance to Stockholm, and there he learnt that the Countess
Steenbock had never quitted the capital, and that she died at the very moment when she was
seen in the arms of the deceased queen.

XLV

DENIS MISANGER

"The Phantom World"

XLVI

THE PIED PIPER

"The Phantom World"

XLVII

JEANNE D'ARC

FERRIER'S "Apparitions"

Upon her trial, as it is repeated by Chartier, she spoke with the utmost simplicity and firmness
of her visions: "Que souvent alloit a une belle fontaine au pays de Lorraine, laquelle elle
nommoit bonne fontaine aux Feés Nostre Seigneur, at en icelluy lieu tous ceulx de pays quand
ils avoient fiebvre ils alloient pour recouvrer garison; et la alloit souvent ladite Jehanne
la Pucelle sous un grand arbre qui la fontaine ombroit; et s'apparurent a elle Ste Katerine
et Ste Marguerite qui lui dirent qu'elle allast a ung Cappitaine qu'elles lui nommerent, laquelle
y alla sans prendre congé ni a pere ni a mere; lequel Cappitaine la vestit en guise d'homme
et l'armoit et lui ceint l'epeé, et luy bailla un escuyer et quatre varlets; et en ce point
fut monteé sur un bon cheval; et en ce point vint aut Roy de France, et lui dit que du Commandement
de lui estoit venue a lui, et qu'elle le feroit le plus grand Seigneur du Monde, et qu'il fut
ordonné que tretou ceulx qui lui desobeiroient fussent occis sans mercy, et que St Michel et
plusieurs anges lui avoient baillé une Couronne moult riche pour lui."

XLVIII

ANNE WALKER

Local Records

In the year 1680, at Lumley, a hamlet near Chester-le-Street in the county of Durham, there
lived one Walker, a man well to do in the world, and a widower. A young relation of his, whose
name was Anne Walker, kept his house, to the great scandal of the neighbourhood, and that with
but too good cause. A few weeks before this young woman expected to become a mother, Walker
placed her with her aunt, one Dame Clare, in Chester-le-Street, and promised to take care both
of her and her future child. One evening in the end of November, this man, in company with
Mark Sharp, an acquaintance of his, came to Dame Clare's door, and told her that they had made
arrangements for removing her niece to a place where she could remain in safety till her confinement
was over. They would not say where it was; but as Walker bore, in most respects, an excellent
character, she was allowed to go with him; and he professed to have sent her off with Sharp
into Lancashire. Fourteen days after, one Graeme, a fuller, who lived about six miles from
Lumley, had been engaged till past midnight in his mill; and on going downstairs to go home,
in the middle of the ground floor he saw a woman, with dishevelled hair, covered with blood,
and having five large wounds on her head. Graeme, on recovering a little from his first terror,
demanded what the spectre wanted. "I," said the apparition, "am the spirit of Anne Walker";
and proceeded accordingly to tell Graeme the particulars which I have already related to you.
"When I was sent away with Mark Sharp, he slew me on such a moor," naming one that Graeme knew,
"with a collier's pick, threw my body into a coal-pit, and hid the pick under the bank; and
his shoes and stockings, which were covered with blood, he left in a stream." The apparition
proceeded to tell Graeme that he must give information of this to the nearest justice of peace,
and that till this was done, he must look to be continually haunted. Graeme went home very
sad; he dared not bring such a charge against a man of so unimpeachable a character as Walker;
and yet he as little dared to incur the anger of the spirit that had appeared to him. So, as
all weak minds will do, he went on procrastinating; only he took care to leave his mill early,
and while in it never to be alone. Notwithstanding this caution on his part, one night, just
as it began to be dark, the apparition met him again in a more terrible shape, and with every
circumstance of indignation. Yet he did not even then fulfil its injunction; till on St Thomas's
eve, as he was walking in his garden just after sunset, it threatened him so effectually that
in the morning he went to a magistrate and revealed the whole thing. The place was examined;
the body and the pickaxe found; and a warrant was granted against Walker and Sharp. They were,
however, admitted to bail; but in August, 1681, their trial came on before Judge Davenport
at Durham. Meanwhile the whole circumstances were known over all the north of England, and
the greatest interest was excited by the case. Against Sharp the fact was strong, that his
shoes and stockings, covered with blood, were found in the place where the murder had been
committed; but against Walker, except the account received from the ghost, there seemed not
a shadow of evidence. Nevertheless the judge summed up strongly against the prisoners, the
jury found them guilty, and the judge pronounced sentence upon them that night, a thing which
was unknown in Durham, either before or after. The prisoners were executed, and both died professing
their innocence to the last. Judge Davenport was much agitated during the trial; and it was
believed, says the historian, that the spirit had also appeared to him, as if to supply in
his mind the want of legal evidence. This case is certainly a solemn illustration of the mal-administration
of justice in an ancient court; yet the circumstantial evidence, arising from the appearance
of the spirit, appears very strong--the finding of the body, and the boots and stockings. Yet
we need perhaps to live more immediately within the circle of the circumstance to pronounce
upon it. None of us, however, reading this book, would like to take upon ourselves the responsibility
of those daring jurymen, who durst venture to throw away life upon evidence which, strong as
it appears to have been, did not come to them, but only to one who had borne witness to them.

XLIX

THE HAND OF GLORY

HENDERSON'S "Folk Lore"

One evening, between the years 1790 and 1800, a traveller, dressed in woman's clothes, arrived
at the Old Spital Inn, the place where the mail coach changed horses, in High Spital, on Bowes
Moor. The traveller begged to stay all night, but had to go away so early in the morning that
if a mouthful of food were set ready for breakfast there was no need the family should be disturbed
by her departure. The people of the house, however, arranged that a servant maid should sit
up till the stranger was out of the premises, and then went to bed themselves. The girl lay
down for a nap on the longsettle by the fire, but before she shut her eyes she took a good
look at the traveller, who was sitting on the opposite side of the hearth, and espied a pair
of man's trousers peeping out from under the gown. All inclination for sleep was now gone;
however, with great self-command, she feigned it, closed her eyes, and even began to snore.
On this the traveller got up, pulled out of his pocket a dead man's hand, fitted a candle to
it, lighted the candle, and passed hand and candle several times before the servant girl's
face, saying as he did so: "Let those who are asleep be asleep, and let those who are awake
be awake." This done, he placed the light on the table, opened the outer door, went down two
or three of the steps which led from the house to the road, and began to whistle for his companions.
The girl (who had hitherto had presence of mind enough to remain perfectly quiet) now jumped
up, rushed behind the ruffian, and pushed him down the steps. She then shut the door, locked
it, and ran upstairs to try and wake the family, but without success: calling, shouting, and
shaking were alike in vain. The poor girl was in despair, for she heard the traveller and his
comrades outside the house. So she ran down again, seized a bowl of blue (i.e. skimmed milk),
and threw it over the hand and candle; after which she went upstairs again, and awoke the sleepers
without any difficulty. The landlord's son went to the window, and asked the men outside what
they wanted. They answered that if the dead man's hand were but given them, they would go away
quietly, and do no harm to anyone. This he refused, and fired among them, and the shot must
have taken effect, for in the morning stains of blood were traced to a considerable distance.

These circumstances were related to my informant, Mr Charles Wastell, in the spring of 1861,
by an old woman named Bella Parkin, who resided close to High Spital, and was actually the
daughter of the courageous servant-girl. One dark night, when all was shut up, there came a
tap at the door of a lone inn in the middle of a barren moor. The door was opened, and there
stood without, shivering and shaking, a poor beggar, his rags soaked with rain, and his hands
white with cold. He asked piteously for a lodging, and it was cheerfully granted him; there
was not a spare bed in the house, but he could lie on the mat before the kitchen fire, and welcome.

So this was settled, and everyone in the house went to bed except the cook, who from the back
kitchen could see into the large room through a pane of glass let into the door. She watched
the beggar, and saw him, as soon as he was left alone, draw himself up from the floor, seat
himself at the table, extract from his pocket a brown withered human hand, and set it upright
in the candlestick. He then anointed the fingers, and applying a match to them, they began
to flame. Filled with horror, the cook rushed up the back stairs, and endeavoured to arouse
her master and the men of the house. But all was in vain--they slept a charmed sleep; so in
despair she hastened down again, and placed herself at her post of observation.

She saw the fingers of the hand flaming, but the thumb remained unlighted, because one inmate
of the house was awake. The beggar was busy collecting the valuables around him into a large
sack, and having taken all he cared for in the large room, he entered another. On this the
woman ran in, and, seizing the light, tried to extinguish the flames. But this was not so easy.
She blew at them, but they burnt on as before. She poured the dregs of a beer-jug over them,
but they blazed up the brighter. As a last resource, she caught up a jug of milk, and dashed
it over the four lambent flames, and they died out at once. Uttering a loud cry, she rushed
to the door of the apartment the beggar had entered, and locked it. The whole family was aroused,
and the thief easily secured and hanged. This tale is told in Northumberland.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 14: Delrio.

This is the legend of the Bloody Footstep, which I myself have seen at the Hall door.

LI

THE GHOSTLY WARRIORS OF WORMS

"The Phantom World"

LII

THE WANDERING JEW IN ENGLAND

"Notes and Queries"

When on the weary way to Golgotha, Christ fainting, and overcome under the burden of the cross,
asked Salathiel, as he was standing at his door, for a cup of water to cool His parched throat,
he spurned the supplication, and bade Him on the faster.

"I go," said the Saviour, "but thou shalt thirst and tarry till I come."

And ever since then, by day and night, through the long centuries he has been doomed to wander
about the earth, ever craving for water, and ever expecting the day of judgment which shall
end his toils:

    "Mais toujours le soleil se lève,
        Toujours, toujours
    Tourne la terre où moi je cours,
    Toujours, toujours, toujours, toujours!"

Sometimes, during the cold winter nights, the lonely cottager will be awoke by a plaintive
demand for "Water, good Christian! water for the love of God!" And if he looks out into the
moonlight, he will see a venerable old man in antique raiment, with grey flowing beard, and
a tall staff, who beseeches his charity with the most earnest gesture. Woe to the churl who
refuses him water or shelter. My old nurse, who was a Warwickshire woman, and, as Sir Walter
said of his grandmother, "a most awfu' le'er," knew a man who boldly cried out, "All very fine,
Mr Ferguson, but you can't lodge here." And it was decidedly the worst thing he ever did in
his life, for his best mare fell dead lame, and corn went down, I am afraid to say how much
per quarter. If, on the contrary, you treat him well, and refrain from indelicate inquiries
respecting his age--on which point he is very touchy--his visit is sure to bring good luck.
Perhaps years afterwards, when you are on your death-bed, he may happen to be passing; and
if he should, you are safe; for three knocks with his staff will make you hale, and he never
forgets any kindnesses. Many stories are current of his wonderful cures; but there is one to
be found in Peck's History of Stamford which possesses the rare merit of being written by the
patient himself. Upon Whitsunday, in the year of our Lord 1658, "about six of the clock, just
after evensong," one Samuel Wallis, of Stamford, who had been long wasted with a lingering
consumption, was sitting by the fire, reading in that delectable book called Abraham's Suit
for Sodom. He heard a knock at the door; and, as his nurse was absent, he crawled to open it
himself. What he saw there, Samuel shall say in his own style:--"I beheld a proper, tall, grave
old man. Thus he said: 'Friend, I pray thee, give an old pilgrim a cup of small beere!' And
I said, 'Sir, I pray you, come in and welcome.' And he said, 'I am no Sir, therefore call me
not Sir; but come in I must, for I cannot pass by thy doore.'"

After finishing the beer: "Friend," he said, "thou art not well." "I said, 'No, truly Sir,
I have not been well this many yeares.' He said, 'What is thy disease?' I said, 'A deep consumption,
Sir; our doctors say, past cure: for, truly, I am a very poor man, and not able to follow doctors'
councell.' 'Then,' said he, 'I will tell thee what thou shalt do; and, by the help and power
of Almighty God above, thou shalt be well. To-morrow, when thou risest up, go into thy garden,
and get there two leaves of red sage, and one of bloodworte, and put them into a cup of thy
small beere. Drink as often as need require, and when the cup is empty fill it again, and put
in fresh leaves every fourth day, and thou shalt see, through our Lord's great goodness and
mercy, before twelve dayes shall be past, thy disease shall be cured and thy body altered.'"

After this simple prescription, Wallis pressed him to eat: "But he said, 'No, friend, I will
not eat; the Lord Jesus is sufficient for me. Very seldom doe I drinke any beere neither, but
that which comes from the rocke. So, friend, the Lord God be with thee.'"

So saying, he departed, and was never more heard of; but the patient got well within the given
time, and for many a long day there was war hot and fierce among the divines of Stamford, as
to whether the stranger was an angel or a devil. His dress has been minutely described by honest
Sam. His coat was purple, and buttoned down to the waist; "his britches of the same couler,
all new to see to"; his stockings were very white, but whether linen or jersey, deponent knoweth
not; his beard and head were white, and he had a white stick in his hand. The day was rainy
from morning to night, "but he had not one spot of dirt upon his cloathes."

Aubrey gives an almost exactly similar relation, the scene of which he places in the Staffordshire
Moorlands. The Jew there appears in a "purple shag gown," and prescribes balm-leaves.

LIII

BENDITH EU MAMMAU[15]

By EDMUND JONES

They appeared diverse ways, but their most frequent way of appearing was like dancing-companies
with musick, or in the form of funerals. When they appeared like dancing-companies, they were
desirous to entice persons into their company, and some were drawn among them and remained
among them some time, usually a whole year; as did Edmund William Rees, a man whom I well knew,
and was a neighbour, who came back at the year's end, and looked very bad. But either they
were not able to give much account of themselves, or they durst not give it, only said they
had been dancing, and that the time was short. But there were some others who went with them
at night, and returned sometimes at night, and sometimes the next morning; especially those
persons who took upon them to cure the hurts received from the fairies, as Charles Hugh of
Coed yr Pame, in Langybi parish, and Rissiart Cap Dee, of Aberystruth; for the former of these
must certainly converse with them, for how else could he declare the words which his visitors
had spoken a day or days before they came to him, to their great surprise and wonder?

And as for Rissiart Cap Dee, so called because he wore a black cap, it is said of him that
when he lodged in some houses to cure those who were hurt by the fairies, he would suddenly
rise up in the night, and make a very hasty preparation to go downstairs; which when one person
observ'd, he said, "Go softly, Uncle Richard, least you fall": he made answer, "O, here are
some to receive me." But when he was called to one person, who had inadvertently fallen among
the fairies, and had been greatly hurt by them, and kept his bed upon it, whose relations had
sent for the said Rissiart Cap Dee to cure him; who, when he came up to the sick man's chamber,
the sick man took up a pound-weight stone, which was by the bed-side, and threw it at the infernal
charmer with all his might, saying, "Thou old villain, wast one of the worst of them to hurt
me!" for he had seen him among them acting his part against him; upon which the old charmer
went away muttering some words of malevolence against him. He lived at the foot of Rhyw Coelbren,
and there was a large hole in the side of the thatch of his house, thro' which the people believed
he went out at night to the fairies, and came in from them at night; but he pretended it was
that he might see the stars at night. The house is down long ago. He lived by himself, as did
the before-mentioned Charles Hugh, who was very famous in the county for his cures, and knowledge
of things at a distance; which he could not possibly know without conversing with evil spirits,
who walked the earth to and fro. He is yet said to be an affable, friendly man, and cheerful;
'tis then a pity he should be in alliance with hell, and an agent in the kingdom of darkness.

I will only give one instance of his knowledge of things at a distance, and of secret things.
Henry John Thomas, of the parish of Aberystruth, a relation of mine, an honest man, went with
the water of a young woman whom he courted, and was sick, to the said Charles Hugh, who, as
soon as he saw Henry John, pleasantly told him, "Ho! you come with your sweetheart's water
to me." And he told him the very words which they had spoken together in a secret place, and
described the place where they spoke. It was the general opinion in times past, when these
things were very frequent, that the fairies knew whatever was spoken in the air without the
houses, not so much what was spoken in the houses. I suppose they chiefly knew what was spoken
in the air at night. It was also said they rather appeared to an uneven number of persons,
to one, three, five, &c.; and oftener to men than to women. Thomas William Edmund, of Havodavel,
an honest, pious man, who often saw them, declared that they appeared with one bigger than
the rest, going before them in the company.

But they very often appeared in the form of a funeral before the death of many persons, with
a bier and a black cloth, in the midst of a company about it, on every side, before and after
it. The instances of this were so numerous, that it is plain, and past all dispute, that they
infallibly foreknew the time of men's death: the difficulty is, whence they had this knowledge.
It cannot be supposed that either God Himself, or His angels, discovered this to these spirits
of darkness. For the secrets of the Lord are with those that fear Him, not with His enemies.
Psalm xxv. 14. They must therefore have this knowledge from the position of the stars at the
time of birth, and their influence, which they perfectly understand beyond what mortal men
can do. We have a constant proof of this in the corps candles, whose appearance is an infallible
sign that death will follow, and they never fail going the way that the corps will go to be
buried, be the way ever so unlikely that it should go through. But to give some instances in
Aberystruth Parish.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 15: A Geographical, Historical, and Religious Account of the Parish of Aberystruth,
in the County of Monmouth. To which are added, Memoirs of several persons of Note, who lived
in the said Parish. By Edmund Jones. Trevecka: printed in the Year 1779.]

LIV

THE RED BOOK OF APPIN

CAMPBELL'S "Tales of the West Highlands"

Once upon a time, there lived a man at Appin, Argyllshire, and he took to his house an orphan
boy. When the boy was grown up, he was sent to herd; and upon a day of days, and him herding,
there came a fine gentleman where he was, who asked him to become his servant, and that he
would give him plenty to eat and drink, clothes, and great wages. The boy told him that he
would like very much to get a good suit of clothes, but that he would not engage till he would
see his master; but the fine gentleman would have him engaged without any delay; this the boy
would not do upon any terms till he would see his master. "Well," says the gentleman, "in the
meantime write your name in this book." Saying this, he puts his hand into his oxter pocket,
and pulling out a large red book, he told the boy to write his name in the book. This the boy
would not do; neither would he tell his name, till he would acquaint his master first. "Now,"
says the gentleman, "since you will neither engage, or tell your name, till you see your present
master, be sure to meet me about sunset to-morrow, at a certain place?" The boy promised that
he would be sure to meet him at the place about sunsetting. When the boy came home he told
his master what the gentleman said to him. "Poor boy," says he, "a fine master he would make;
lucky for you that you neither engaged nor wrote your name in his book; but since you promised
to meet him, you must go; but as you value your life, do as I tell you." His master gave him
a sword, and at the same time he told him to be sure to be at the place mentioned a while before
sunset, and to draw a circle round himself with the point of the sword in the name of Trinity.
"When you do this, draw a cross in the centre of the circle, upon which you will stand yourself;
and do not move out of that position till the rising of the sun next morning." He also told
him that he would wish him to come out of the circle to put his name in the book; but that
upon no account he was to leave the circle; "but ask the book till you would write your name
yourself, and when once you get hold of the book keep it, he cannot touch a hair of your head,
if you keep inside the circle."

So the boy was at the place long before the gentleman made his appearance; but sure enough
he came after sunset; he tried all his arts to get the boy outside the circle, to sign his
name in the red book, but the boy would not move one foot out from where he stood; but, at
the long last, he handed the book to the boy, so as to write his name therein. The book was
no sooner inside the circle than it fell out of the gentleman's hand inside the circle; the
boy cautiously stretched out his hand for the book, and as soon as he got hold of it, he put
it in his oxter. When the fine gentleman saw that he did not mean to give him back the book,
he got furious; and at last he transformed himself into great many likenesses, blowing fire
and brimstone out of his mouth and nostrils; at times he would appear as a horse, other times
a huge cat, and a fearful beast (uille bbeast); he was going round the circle the length of
the night; when day was beginning to break he let out one fearful screech; he put himself in
the shape of a large raven, and he was soon out of the boy's sight. The boy still remained
where he was till he saw the sun in the morning, which no sooner he observed, than he took
to his soles home as fast as he could. He gave the book to his master; and this is how the
far-famed red book of Appin was got.

LV

THE GOOD O'DONOGHUE

Irish Folk Tales

In an age so distant that the precise period is unknown, a chieftain named O'Donoghue ruled
over the country which surrounds the romantic Lough Lean, now called the Lake of Killarney.
Wisdom, beneficence, and justice distinguished his reign, and the prosperity and happiness
of his subjects were their natural results. He is said to have been as renowned for his warlike
exploits as for his pacific virtues; and as a proof that his domestic administration was not
the less rigorous because it was mild, a rocky island is pointed out to strangers, called "O'Donoghue's
Prison," in which this prince once confined his own son for some act of disorder and disobedience.

His end--for it cannot correctly be called his death--was singular and mysterious. At one of
those splendid feasts for which his court was celebrated, surrounded by the most distinguished
of his subjects, he was engaged in a prophetic relation of the events which were to happen
in ages yet to come. His auditors listened, now rapt in wonder, now fired with indignation,
burning with shame, or melted into sorrow, as he faithfully detailed the heroism, the injuries,
the crimes, and the miseries of their descendants. In the midst of his predictions he rose
slowly from his seat, advanced with a solemn, measured, and majestic tread to the shore of
the lake, and walked forward composedly upon its unyielding surface. When he had nearly reached
the centre he paused for a moment, then, turning slowly round, looked toward his friends, and
waving his arms to them with the cheerful air of one taking a short farewell, disappeared from
their view.

The memory of the good O'Donoghue has been cherished by successive generations with affectionate
reverence; and it is believed that at sunrise, on every May-day morning, the anniversary of
his departure, he revisits his ancient domains: a favoured few only are in general permitted
to see him, and this distinction is always an omen of good fortune to the beholders; when it
is granted to many it is a sure token of an abundant harvest--a blessing, the want of which
during this prince's reign was never felt by his people.

Some years have elapsed since the last appearance of O'Donoghue. The April of that year had
been remarkably wild and stormy; but on May-morning the fury of the elements had altogether
subsided. The air was hushed and still; and the sky, which was reflected in the serene lake,
resembled a beautiful but deceitful countenance, whose smiles, after the most tempestuous emotions,
tempt the stranger to believe that it belongs to a soul which no passion has ever ruffled.

The first beams of the rising sun were just gilding the lofty summit of Glenaa, when the waters
near the eastern shore of the lake became suddenly and violently agitated, though all the rest
of its surface lay smooth and still as a tomb of polished marble, the next morning a foaming
wave darted forward, and, like a proud high-crested war-horse, exulting in his strength, rushed
across the lake toward Toomies mountain. Behind this wave appeared a stately warrior fully
armed, mounted upon a milk-white steed; his snowy plume waved gracefully from a helmet of polished
steel, and at his back fluttered a light blue scarf. The horse, apparently exulting in his
noble burden, sprung after the wave along the water, which bore him up like firm earth, while
showers of spray that glittered brightly in the morning sun were dashed up at every bound.

The warrior was O'Donoghue; he was followed by numberless youths and maidens, who moved lightly
and unconstrained over the watery plain, as the moonlight fairies glide through the fields
of air; they were linked together by garlands of delicious spring flowers, and they timed their
movements to strains of enchanting melody. When O'Donoghue had nearly reached the western side
of the lake, he suddenly turned his steed, and directed his course along the wood-fringed shore
of Glenaa, preceded by the huge wave that curled and foamed up as high as the horse's neck,
whose fiery nostrils snorted above it. The long train of attendants followed with playful deviations
the track of their leader, and moved on with unabated fleetness to their celestial music, till
gradually, as they entered the narrow strait between Glenaa and Dinis, they became involved
in the mists which still partially floated over the lake, and faded from the view of the wondering
beholders: but the sound of their music still fell upon the ear, and echo, catching up the
harmonious strains, fondly repeated and prolonged them in soft and softer tones, till the last
faint repetition died away, and the hearers awoke as from a dream of bliss.

LVI

SARAH POLGRAIN

By WILLIAM HUNT

A woman, who had lived in Ludgvan, was executed at Bodmin for the murder of her husband. There
was but little doubt that she had been urged on to the diabolical deed by a horse-dealer, known
as Yorkshire Jack, with whom, for a long period, she was generally supposed to have been criminally
acquainted.

Now, it will be remembered that this really happened within the present century. One morning,
during my residence in Penzance, an old woman from Ludgvan called on me with some trifling
message. While she was waiting for my answer, I made some ordinary remark about the weather.

"It's all owing to Sarah Polgrain," said she.

"Sarah Polgrain," said I; "and who is Sarah Polgrain?"

Then the voluble old lady told me the whole story of the poisoning with which we need not,
at present, concern ourselves. By and by the tale grew especially interesting, and there I
resume it.

Sarah had begged that Yorkshire Jack might accompany her to the scaffold when she was led forth
to execution. This was granted; and on the dreadful morning there stood this unholy pair, the
fatal beam on which the woman's body was in a few minutes to swing, before them.

They kissed each other, and whispered words passed between them.

The executioner intimated that the moment of execution had arrived, and that they must part.
Sarah Polgrain, looking earnestly into the man's eyes, said:

"You will?"

Yorkshire Jack replied, "I will!" and they separated. The man retired amongst the crowd, the
woman was soon a dead corpse, pendulating in the wind.

Years passed on, Yorkshire Jack was never the same man as before, his whole bearing was altered.
His bold, his dashing air deserted him. He walked, or rather wandered, slowly about the streets
of the town, or the lanes of the country. He constantly moved his head from side to side, looking
first over one, and then over the other shoulder, as though dreading that someone was following
him.

The stout man became thin, his ruddy cheeks more pale, and his eyes sunken.

At length he disappeared, and it was discovered--for Yorkshire Jack had made a confidant of
some Ludgvan man--that he had pledged himself, "living or dead, to become the husband of Sarah
Polgrain, after the lapse of years."

To escape, if possible, from himself, Jack had gone to sea in the merchant service.

Well, the period had arrived when this unholy promise was to be fulfilled. Yorkshire Jack was
returning from the Mediterranean in a fruit-ship. He was met by the devil and Sarah Polgrain
far out at sea, off the Land's End. Jack would not accompany them willingly, so they followed
the ship for days, during all which time she was involved in a storm. Eventually Jack was washed
from the deck by such a wave as the oldest sailor had never seen; and presently, amidst loud
thunders and flashing lightnings, riding as it were in a black cloud, three figures were seen
passing onward. These were the devil, Sarah Polgrain, and Yorkshire Jack; and this was the
cause of the storm.

"It is all true, as you may learn if you will inquire," said the old woman; "for many of her
kin live in Churchtown."

LVII

ELEANOR COBHAM, DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER

GODWIN'S "Lives of the Necromancers"

PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY NEILL AND CO., LTD., EDINBURGH.

