My wife thought I had only been sitting up extra late at my work, and I told her nothing of
my night's adventure. But I summoned two able-bodied detectives to my aid, and they agreed
to await with me the lunatic's second visit. My family supposed that the detectives had come
to assist me in getting up a tale of crime, and I did not undeceive them. So I despatched them
to bed at an earlier hour than usual, on the plea that I did not wish to be disturbed, and
sat with my companions in the study watching for the madman.

Precisely at ten o'clock there was heard a heavy footstep on the gravel path without, and once
more a knock--a single knock.

"He has come," we whispered.

We had duly arranged our "plan of campaign," and now proceeded to carry it out. The most stalwart
of the detectives was to open the front door, and the other to hide behind it. My post was
on the threshold of my study, where I was to stand as a "reserve."

The men were wonderfully prompt in executing their operations. The street door had hardly been
opened when there was a scuffle and a heavy fall, accompanied by much growling and cursing,
and then the unmistakable sound of the snapping of a pair of handcuffs.

"It's all right," said the detective who had been behind the door, "we have got him and his
six-shooter too."

Whereupon he produced the very weapon with which the maniac had threatened me--the large, bright,
new revolver. I identified it at once.

"I got it out of his side pocket quick as thought," said the man.

Good! And now I retired into my study while the other detective brought the stranger forward.

"What the devil are you fools about?" I heard him cry, as he entered, handcuffed, at the door.

The sound of his voice startled me. It was not that of my visitor the night before. A single
glance showed me that it was quite a different sort of person.

"Halloa!" I cried, "there is some mistake here. That's not the lunatic."

"Lunatic!" exclaimed the captured man, "I should think not indeed. It is you who are the lunatics.
I am a policeman!"

And a policeman he was--in plain clothes. He had come to tell me that the maniac was dead.
He had shot himself almost immediately after leaving me, and the constable who had put me into
a hansom remembered my words and my name and address. Hence I was now summoned to give evidence
at the inquest.

Of course the policeman was easily pacified, and, indeed, regarded his rough treatment by two
of his own colleagues as a joke rather than otherwise.

I duly gave evidence at the inquest, but I am sorry to say that when I told my story it was
not listened to quite so gravely as I thought it ought to have been.

So altogether this adventure rather disgusted me with the occupation I had hitherto been following,
and now, for some time past, instead of composing tales of crime, I have gone in for writing
moral stories for boys.

[Sidenote: Miss Fanny Brough thinks that it is indispensable.]

Of course, there will be the usual outcry that we don't want an Academy of British Dramatic
Art because we have not had one hitherto; but there are many things wanted now-a-days which
our forefathers had to do without. I don't say for a moment that the heads of the profession
in England are not equal to those of France or other countries; it is the rank and file of
whom I complain. They never get a chance of learning how to walk or talk properly on the stage,
and, consequently, minor parts are frequently very badly played in English theatres. For instance,
I went on the stage--in the provinces--just when the old system of stock companies was dying
out. A few years before then it would have been possible to receive an admirable training in
the provinces. But when I went on the stage, touring companies took possession of the land,
and I had only two parts in eighteen months. What possible chance was there of learning to
act under such a system? None at all. The result was that when I came to London, and had a
comparatively good part offered me, I did not feel satisfied with the way I played it, and
returned to the provinces. The difficulty, of course, is how to exist whilst qualifying for
the stage. I maintain that a Dramatic Academy would do away with this difficulty, and tend
to the improvement of British Dramatic Art in numberless ways. There are hundreds of inefficient
teachers who profess to train people for the stage, although they themselves know nothing of
the art of acting. As long as there are wealthy tyros mad to go on the stage at any cost, so
long will inefficient teachers continue to flourish.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The Dramatic Academy must be subsidised.]

Of course, the Dramatic Academy would have to be subsidised, either by the Government or private
individuals. The experiment is not a new one. It has been tried at the Paris Conservatoire,
the National Dramatic Academy at Buda-Pesth, the theatrical school at Berlin, and the Dramatic
Conservatoires in Vienna and Amsterdam. Surely it would be possible to collate the experiences
of these various institutions and arrive at a basis on which to work. A committee of our leading
actors and managers might be appointed to report on the matter. There is a great deal of nonsense
talked about the heaven-born genius plunging into the first ranks of the profession at a bound,
but, as a rule, the heaven-born genius requires a great deal of preparatory work to fit him
for his profession. Mr. Grein, of the Independent Theatre, puts forward a very comprehensive
plan for the working of such an academy. He proposes--(1.) The school should be open to children
at thirteen. (2.) That they should pass a competitive examination. (3.) That the school should
be divided into five classes, the three lower ones to be entirely preparatory. (4.) That the
tuition for acting should not begin until these three classes are passed, or, in other words,
that the pupil should spend four years in merely preparatory work. (5.) That if the pupil then
shows no special aptitude, he should be recommended to give up all idea of the stage. (6.)
That six hours a week should be bestowed on diction and acting. (7.) That at the end of the
course the pupils should submit to a semi-public examination, and receive a diploma if proficient.
(8.) That the co-operation of managers should be invited, and that the conduct of the school
should be entrusted to one man (not an actor) under the supervision of three eminent actors
or actor-managers. (9.) That the school must be endowed amply enough to tide it over the first
five years of its existence, and that the fees to pupils should be made as low as possible.
If a certain amount of energy and determination are brought to bear on the subject, I see no
reason why it should not speedily be brought within the range of practical politics.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Mr. John Hare thinks not.]

I am loath to say anything to discourage any scheme framed for the purpose of benefiting our
art, but I cannot honestly say that, in my opinion, the establishment of a Dramatic Academy
would, in any way, serve that purpose. The question was fully gone into by a most influential
committee called together to consider the subject some ten years ago. It consisted of Mr. Irving,
Mr. Boucicault, Mr. Bancroft, Mr. Vezin, Mr. Kendal, Mr. Neville, Mr. H. J. Byrne, myself,
and many others. After a full discussion we found, amongst many other difficulties, it was
quite impossible to find enough competent teachers who would undertake the work of instruction,
so the matter fell through, and, as I do not believe in the "blind leading the blind," I am
convinced that any attempt to establish an English Dramatic Academy will prove abortive.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Mr. J. L. Toole is not quite prepared to express a decided opinion.]

I am not quite prepared to express a decided opinion on the matter. I am, however, more inclined
to the view that a sound provincial training will always be found the more beneficial course.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Mr. Edward Terry's experience.]

I think it desirable, but scarcely practicable. Some years ago I was concerned in a scheme
to promote the same object, my desire being that we should start by renting a small theatre,
and playing a répertoire of pieces--that established actors should give their services for
a minimum fee as professors, and when out of engagements should undertake to appear and act,
taking less than their regular salaries. If the theatre or academy succeeded, and held its
own for a year, I would then have asked for a Government subsidy. A great deal of good work
was done some few years ago by the "Dramatic Students," and I regret exceedingly the society
has ceased to exist.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sir Augustus Harris looks upon the idea as a myth.]

What can I say? Of course, a Dramatic Academy would be a splendid institution, with all the
best actors as masters teaching the young idea how to shoot--shoot straight, of course; and
what a saving it would be to poor managers, who then could refer the thousands of aspirants
for dramatic glory to it to become pupils and get prizes before asking for engagements. But
alas! and alas!! where are the actors who will give their time and trouble to such a noble
cause? I think our rough and ready way the only one suited to our peculiarities, and, therefore,
look upon the idea as a myth.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Miss Rose Norreys thinks it would be a difficult project.]

An Academy of Dramatic Art, where each student must first win a diploma before being eligible
for the stage, would be an inestimable advantage; but, unless this academy were founded and
endowed by the "State," it would again prove to be impracticable. Moreover, as there is an
universally accepted theory that the British public does not want Art, but merely demands to
be amused, or to have its attention attracted (by some means or other), I fear it would be
a somewhat difficult affair to induce the "State" to regard the proposition as anything but
a trivial one.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Mr. William Terriss thinks there is no necessity.]

I do not think the profession to which I have the honour to belong has any necessity for a
Dramatic Academy. Actors and actresses have come, and are constantly coming, to the front who
have learnt their business at the best of schools--the stage, which is always self-instructing.
It is not so much a lack of ability (which is the cause of a seeming lack of artists) as opportunity.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Cyril Maude thinks it necessary.]

It seems to me that under the existing state of affairs, actors and actresses have to spend
the best and most useful years of their life in a struggle to acquire a bare knowledge of the
principles of their art. Could not the acquisition of this knowledge be aided and accelerated
by a school in which, for reasonable terms, the beginner could learn the adjuncts of the art
he has chosen, such as ease of carriage, how to speak properly (let us drop that misused word
elocution, which only suggests the schoolgirl's recitation), fencing, production of voice,
dancing, etc., not forgetting how to make up? Then let the tyro go into the provinces, where
he must gain a certain amount of experience with constant change of theatres and of audience
week by week. Who will say that this preliminary training would not be of enormous advantage
to the beginner? But surely this school should not profess to teach acting, but the different
arts and accomplishments which go to help to make the actor.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Mr. Murray Carson is of opinion that the actor's own discretion should be his tutor.]

I do not think a Dramatic College is either practicable or necessary. You could not expect
the public, or the critics, to attend a series of performances given by novices; and as constant
appearances in public must outweigh all other forms of teaching, it would be more profitable
to the beginner to join a provincial répertoire company, and thus come into nightly encounter
with his final judges, the public, thereby learning the most essential quality of the art--how
to make his personality and his particular form or method the master of their feelings. Now,
as the personality of every actor differs, so, I contend, must his method vary, not only in
what is termed the "reading" of a part, but also in the technique of his execution. If to become
a mere walking, talking machine, be the object of a beginner, by all means let him be instructed
in calisthenics and elocution, and the art of first-night speech-making; but to call such a
combination of classes a School of Dramatic Art is degrading; it robs the calling of its highest
attribute--imagination. Innate ability must undoubtedly be developed, "which nobody can deny,"
but such an institution as is suggested would develop everything in the same form; and as there
is no accepted standard to aim at, the result would be, so many impressions of the mind of
the teacher, who might possibly be wrong. It is impossible to talk about learning to "walk
the stage," dancing, fencing, etc., etc., as being of sufficient importance to demand a national
institution. I have known very fine actors who neither walked well nor spoke distinctly. A
school supported by the profession, at which it would be possible for an actor to take lessons
in any of these accessories from accredited masters, for a small fee, would be invaluable,
but it could not by any possibility lay claim to the title "School of Dramatic Art." After
a few general hints, which are not in the nature of an academical lecture, Shakespeare himself
says, in that memorable address to the players, "But let your own discretion be your tutor."
You cannot learn discretion, it must be the result of experience--an experience made up of
hard work, many disappointments, self-analysis, and, above all, much patience.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Cecil Rayleigh does not believe in it.]

I do not believe in an Academy of Acting, because I do not believe that the art of acting can
be taught. The art of the actor is merely the faculty or instinct for simulation that everybody
possesses in a greater or less degree. Every savage can simulate or imitate the cries of birds
and beasts. Every savage can cover himself with a skin and stalk a herd of deer so disguised.
But some savages do these things better than others. Every child, when it wants to thoroughly
enjoy itself, plays at being something other than it really is. The girl takes a doll and plays
at being a mother. The boy puts on a paper cocked hat and plays at being a soldier. We can
all act more or less. Between Mr. Irving as King Lear, and the beggar who shivers on your door-step
and swears that his wife and six children have not tasted food for a fortnight, the difference
is one of degree, not of kind. The Pharisees of Scripture pretended to be what they were not,
and got roundly denounced as hypocrites for their pains. As a fact, they were only incipient
actors. The talk about teaching is, to my thinking, undiluted twaddle. The inherent desire
to simulate grows, or it does not grow. You cannot make it grow. If a naturally awkward man
can simulate the graces of a dancing master, if a naturally graceful man can simulate the limp
of a cripple or the clumsiness of a hobbledehoy, if a comparative dwarf--like Kean--can assume
the majesty of a monarch, then he is an actor. You may teach him to fence, and to dance, and
to elocute till he is black in the face; you will never teach him to play "Othello" unless
he is an actor. That fencing, dancing, and elocution are useful to the actor I do not deny.
But if he is an actor he will pick these things up for himself easily enough under existing
circumstances. A high development of the faculty for simulation necessarily implies a corresponding
development in the faculty of observation. The actor sees, notes, and reproduces. That is to
say, he simulates. Moreover, being an artist, he only reproduces just so much as is necessary.
He need not study anatomy, and walk a hospital, in order to indicate with a few graphic gestures
the cripple's limp. Equally he need not be a superb swordsman in order to get through an effective
stage combat. It is not absolutely essential that he should be elevated to the peerage before
being permitted to play a duke. People talk about fencing, dancing, and elocution, as if actors
had nothing to do but fence, dance, and spout. An actor has to simulate everything, from "shouts
off" to a crowned king in the centre of the stage. As in all probability neither the unseen
but angry shouters, nor the king, knew anything whatever of the acquirements alluded to, why
should the actor bother about them? They do not help in the least. If he is an actor he can
act. If he is not he can't. In the old days when an actor had to go before the curtain between
the weary acts of an interminable tragedy and engage in a broadsword combat or dance a hornpipe,
I can understand the necessity for his having to be a swordsman and a dancer. But I do not
see the use of those accomplishments now. In these days a man need not, like Mr. Gilbert's
"Jester," always climb an oak to say "I'm up a tree." In these days we prefer the actor who
thinks to the actor who dances. The institution of an Academy of Acting would do one thing,
and one thing only. It would deluge an already overcrowded profession with a flood of mediocre
automatons.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Addison Bright says it depends upon the style of acting which is required.]

Whether or no a Dramatic Academy be needed appears to me to depend on the kind of acting required.
Do you affect the French school? Is your aching void filled by the exquisite elaboration, the
delicacy, the half-tones, the subdued light and grey shadow, in which the French delight?--then,
obviously, it were best to adopt the Conservatoire system, which hitherto has ensured these
things being done better in France. "The proof of the pudding," and what better proof of the
value of a Dramatic Academy could be forthcoming than the brilliant work of Coquelin, Febvre,
Maubant, Delaunay, Got, Worms, Laroche, Blanche Barretta, Emilie Broisat, Madeleine Brohan?
Here is a group of clever men and women. There is not a genius among them. The Bernhardts,
Croizettes, Jane Hadings, and Mounet-Sullys, I purposely omit, as possibly unaffected by the
argument. But of this band of "merely talented," there is not one but has by some means or
other--and, in the first place, presumably, the method by which they were grounded in their
art--become an artist, matured, solid, unapproachable. If, therefore, this be what you want,
surely the Conservatoire system is the shortest cut to it. It is likely, however, that you,
being English, want nothing of the kind. Kickshaws and daintiness are your aversion. The histrionic
Roast Beef of Old England is your craving. You do not ask an actor to merge or transform himself
into the character he assumes, but simply to employ the author as a medium for the display
of his own more or less striking individuality. In this case, schooling of any kind would,
of course, be fatal. Teaching would only interfere with the development of that most precious
possession, his personality. There is, indeed, only one way to help the actor of this class--a
class numerous and highly popular in England and America--and that is by pointing out his faults.
This, at first sight, seems a simple matter. His faults are generally multitudinous and glaring.
But woe to the man who points the finger at them. He is merely qualifying for a species of
martyrdom. The libel laws, reinforcing the instinct of self-preservation, forbid the critics
doing it, and anybody else who tries is instantly regarded as a malignant private enemy of
the criticised. Yet something in this direction ought to be done, for even actors recruited
from the 'Varsities will murder the language, debase the currency of manners, mumble unchecked
of "libery," and "Febuery," and "seckertery," and in many other barbarous ways betray the vulgarising
influence of culture. Only one or two courses seem open to mitigate this evil--to end the harmful
conspiracy of silence which fosters it. The establishment of such an academy as Miss Brough,
Mr. Tree, and Mr. Alexander favour, if practicable (but where are the sufficiently eminent
teachers to inspire confidence?) might do much; but better still would be an institution where
not teaching, but criticism, real never-nowadays-practised criticism, was the object in view.
And I think the best kind of institution for the simultaneous correction of faults and encouragement
of promising talent would be a stock company, run at some big provincial theatre by a syndicate
of London managers, who might there produce their London successes, turn and turn about, all
the year round, and thus be brought into personal contact with the younger actors (who should
be bound to them for a term of apprenticeship) impelled in their own interests to impart advice
and admonition, and kept on the alert to discover genuine talent, and to snap it up when they
saw it for their London houses.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: J. T. Grein goes into figures.]

I have expressed my opinion on a Dramatic Academy in the Daily Chronicle some time ago, and
have been promptly abused for it. Consequently, I am most firmly convinced that the reasons
which I brought forward are sound. Nowadays, abuse is the highest form of approbation. There
are just two little points on which I wish to touch just now, not in defence, but to explain.
I mean that famous £50,000. It has been repeated that I want £50,000. I want them very much
indeed, privately, but for the academy--c'est autre chose. All that I really want is that someone
(the inevitable "someone," who plays such a star-part in our theatrical world) should lend
a sum of £50,000 for five years, which should be placed in a bank under trustees, and the usufruct
of which should serve to maintain the establishment during its period of dentition, if I may
call it so. After five years the capital would return to its owner, who would be none the poorer,
while art would have been a great deal the richer for it. It is also insinuated that, because
I opined that one man--not an actor--should stand at the head of affairs, I had clearly indicated
who should be that man. I--of course! Such accusations of self-nepotism are a sign of the times.
No one can speak disinterestedly about a subject now; we all must have a motive. We are all
mercenary, we are automatic advertising machines of our own selves, we are always insincere.
Charming! But for my own part, I wish to state it very plainly that I never have thought, or
could think, of putting my own candidature forward if ever the academy should become a fact.
I have no desire to fill such a post, an Englishman born should do it: it is a national affair.
One thing should not deter us from advocating the academy. I refer to the failure of the former
school. All I know about it is from hearsay, but it must have been a most miserable business,
and if half the tales which are in circulation about the management are true, it was fit for
anything except education. The radical and principal fault of the old school was that it had
too many heads and not one competent ruler. Big names alone will not accomplish the work, and
large committees are the most troublesome spoke in the wheel-work of any machinery. The former
draw the money and the latter spend it. When the funds had dried up the whole thing collapsed.
And what had it done? Nothing, absolutely nothing of any importance, nothing which could not
have been done better and cheaper. Let this precedent be a warning. Let us have patrons by
all means, a legion of titles and lions, for they may prompt munificence. But let the reins
be in competent hands: one director and three guardians (selected from the patrons), who should
keep a watchful eye on the management of the school. As for the raison d'être, the working,
the subject of a national Dramatic Academy, I have no more to say at this juncture. My plan
will be found summed up by Miss Brough. I hold that it is practical.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Jerome wishes to educate the Playgoer.]

I think the establishment of a Dramatic Academy would be of immense benefit to the stage. Whether
such an institution would be of practicable service in teaching actors and actresses the rudiments
of their art--whether it is advisable that they should be taught--whether it is possible to
teach them--are debatable questions that I will not here enter upon. But such an institution
would achieve a much more important and lasting result. It would educate the British Playgoer.
At present this individual is most lamentably ignorant concerning all things connected with
the theatre. He understands neither drama nor acting. To him the play is not an art, but an
entertainment. He does not yet know enough about the matter to dissociate the player from the
part. He speaks not of Hamlet as portrayed by Mr. H. Irving, but of Mr. Irving as Hamlet, which
sounds the same thing, but isn't. The following conversation is not invented, but recollected.
I heard it in an omnibus. Said the lady next to me to the lady opposite: "How did you like
Hare?" "Oh, not at all," replied the other, "I thought him a horrid man--so nasty to his mother."
"Oh, yes," said the first speaker, "you saw him in Robin Goodfellow, didn't you? Oh, it isn't
fair to judge him by that. You go and see him in The Spectacles. He's a dear old gentleman."
No doubt the second lady will take the next opportunity of seeing Mr. Hare in The Spectacles,
and will be delighted to notice how greatly he has improved. That this is the general attitude
taken up by the public towards its stage servants is proved by the fact that no favourite actor
can play an unsympathetic part with impunity. To "name" would be dangerous, but reflect for
a moment upon the many plays--good plays--that have failed in recent years simply because the
beloved actor-manager has been cast for the part of an objectionable person.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Thinks it can be done.]

