THE CONTEMPORARY REVIEW

VOLUME XLIII.

   JANUARY, 1883.

                                                                    PAGE

   The Americans. By Herbert Spencer                                   1

   University Elections. By Edward A. Freeman, D.C.L.                 16

   Hamlet: A New Reading. By Franklin Leifchild                       31

   Panislamism and the Caliphate                                      57

   The Bollandists. By the Rev. G. T. Stokes                          69

   England, France, and Madagascar. By the Rev. James Sibree          85

   The Religious Future of the World. I. By W. S. Lilly              100

   Syrian Colonization. By the Rev. W. Wright, D.D                   122

   The Conservative Dilemma. By Henry Dunckley                       141

   FEBRUARY, 1883.

   Contemporary Life and Thought in France. By Gabriel Monod         157

   Gambetta. By A German                                             179

   The Art of Rossetti. By Harry Quilter                             190

   The Religious Future of the World. II. By W. S. Lilly             204

   The "Silver Streak" and the Channel Tunnel. By Professor
     Boyd Dawkins                                                    240

   The Prospect of Reform. By Arthur Arnold, M.P.                    250

   Ancient International Law. By Professor Brougham Leech            260

   A Russian Prison. By Henry Lansdell, D.D.                         275

   Canonical Obedience. By the Rev. Edwin Hatch                      289

   Democratic Toryism. By Arthur B. Forwood                          294

   MARCH, 1883.

   County Government. By the Rt. Hon. Sir R. A. Cross, G.C.B., M.P.  305

   Léon Gambetta: A Positivist Discourse. By Frederic Harrison       311

   Discharged Prisoners: How to Aid Them. By C. E. Howard
     Vincent, Director of Criminal Investigations                    325

   Miss Burney's Own Story. By Mary Elizabeth Christie               332

   The Highland Crofters. By John Rae                                357

   Local Self-Government in India: The New Departure. By Sir
     Richard Temple, Bart., G.C.S.I.                                 373

   Siena. By Samuel James Capper                                     383

   The Limits of Science. By the Rev. George Edmundson               404

   Land Tenure and Taxation in Egypt. By Henry C. Kay                411

   The Enchanted Lake: An Episode from the Mahábhárata.
     By Edwin Arnold, C.S.I.                                         428

   The Municipal Organization of Paris. By Yves Guyot, Member
     of the Municipal Council of Paris                               439

   APRIL, 1883.

   PAGE

   The English Military Power, and the Egyptian Campaign of 1882.
     By A German Field-Officer                                       457

   M. Gambetta: Positivism and Christianity. By R. W. Dale, M.A.     476

   The Anti-Vivisectionist Agitation:
     1. By Dr. E. De Cyon                                            498
     2. By R. H. Hutton                                              510

   The Gospel According to Rembrandt. By Richard Heath               517

   Conseils de Prud'hommes. By W. H. S. Aubrey                       538

   The Manchester Ship Canal. By Major-General Hamley                549

   The Progress of Socialism. By Emile de Laveleye                   561

   Irish Murder-Societies. By Richard Pigott                         583

   Contemporary Life and Thought: Italian Politics. By Professor
     Villari                                                         592

   MAY, 1883.

   Mrs. Carlyle. By Mrs. Oliphant                                    609

   The Business of the House o£ Commons. By the Right
     Ho. W. E. Baxter, M.P.                                          629

   The Oxford Movement of 1833. By William Palmer                    636

   Radiation. By Professor Tyndall                                   660

   Cairo: The Old in the New. I. By Dr. Georg Ebers                  674

   Responsibilities of Unbelief. By Vernon Lee                       685

   Fiji. By the Hon Sir Arthur H. Gordon, G.C.M.G.                   711

   John Richard Green. By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M A.                732

   Fenianism. By F. H. O'Donnell, M.P.                               747

   JUNE, 1883.

   The Congo Neutralized. By Emile de Laveleye                       767

   Agnostic Morality. By Frances Power Cobbe                         783

   Native Indian Judges: Mr. Ilbert's Bill. By the Right Hon.
     Sir Arthur Hobhouse, K.C.S.I.                                   795

   The Philosophy of the Beautiful. By Professor John Stuart Blackie 812

   Nature and Thought. By G. J. Romanes, F.R.S.                      831

   Cairo: The Old in the New. II. By Dr. Georg Ebers                 842

   De Mortuis. By C. F. Gordon Cumming                               858

   Wanted, an Elisha. By H. D. Traill, D.C.L.                        870

   Two Aspects of Shakspeare's Art. By T. Hall Came                  883

   Insanity, Suicide and Civilization. By M. G. Mulhall              901

   The New Egyptian Constitution. By Sheldon Amos                    909

THE AMERICANS:

A CONVERSATION AND A SPEECH, WITH AN ADDITION.

BY HERBERT SPENCER.

I.--A CONVERSATION: October 20, 1882.

     [The state of Mr. Spencer's health unfortunately not permitting him
     to give in the form of articles the results of his observations on
     American society, it is thought useful to reproduce, under his own
     revision and with some additional remarks, what he has said on the
     subject; especially as the accounts of it which have appeared in
     this country are imperfect: reports of the conversation having been
     abridged, and the speech being known only by telegraphic summary.

     The earlier paragraphs of the conversation, which refer to Mr.
     Spencer's persistent exclusion of reporters and his objections to
     the interviewing system, are omitted, as not here concerning the
     reader. There was no eventual yielding, as has been supposed. It
     was not to a newspaper-reporter that the opinions which follow were
     expressed, but to an intimate American friend: the primary purpose
     being to correct the many misstatements to which the excluded
     interviewers had given currency; and the occasion being taken for
     giving utterance to impressions of American affairs.--ED.]

Has what you have seen answered your expectations?

It has far exceeded them. Such books about America as I had looked into had given me no adequate
idea of the immense developments of material civilization which I have everywhere found. The
extent, wealth, and magnificence of your cities, and especially the splendour of New York,
have altogether astonished me. Though I have not visited the wonder of the West, Chicago, yet
some of your minor modern places, such as Cleveland, have sufficiently amazed me by the results
of one generation's activity. Occasionally, when I have been in places of some ten thousand
inhabitants where the telephone is in general use, I have felt somewhat ashamed of our own
unenterprising towns, many of which, of fifty thousand inhabitants and more, make no use of it.

I suppose you recognize in these results the great benefits of free institutions?

Ah! Now comes one of the inconveniences of interviewing. I have been in the country less than
two months, have seen but a relatively small part of it, and but comparatively few people,
and yet you wish from me a definite opinion on a difficult question.

Perhaps you will answer, subject to the qualification that you are but giving your first impressions?

Well, with that understanding, I may reply that though the free institutions have been partly
the cause, I think they have not been the chief cause. In the first place, the American people
have come into possession of an unparalleled fortune--the mineral wealth and the vast tracts
of virgin soil producing abundantly with small cost of culture. Manifestly, that alone goes
a long way towards producing this enormous prosperity. Then they have profited by inheriting
all the arts, appliances, and methods, developed by older societies, while leaving behind the
obstructions existing in them. They have been able to pick and choose from the products of
all past experience, appropriating the good and rejecting the bad. Then, besides these favours
of fortune, there are factors proper to themselves. I perceive in American faces generally
a great amount of determination--a kind of "do or die" expression; and this trait of character,
joined with a power of work exceeding that of any other people, of course produces an unparalleled
rapidity of progress. Once more, there is the inventiveness which, stimulated by the need for
economizing labour, has been so wisely fostered. Among us in England, there are many foolish
people who, while thinking that a man who toils with his hands has an equitable claim to the
product, and if he has special skill may rightly have the advantage of it, also hold that if
a man toils with his brain, perhaps for years, and, uniting genius with perseverance, evolves
some valuable invention, the public may rightly claim the benefit. The Americans have been
more far-seeing. The enormous museum of patents which I saw at Washington is significant of
the attention paid to inventors' claims; and the nation profits immensely from having in this
direction (though not in all others) recognized property in mental products. Beyond question,
in respect of mechanical appliances the Americans are ahead of all nations. If along with your
material progress there went equal progress of a higher kind, there would remain nothing to
be wished.

That is an ambiguous qualification. What do you mean by it?

You will understand me when I tell you what I was thinking the other day. After pondering over
what I have seen of your vast manufacturing and trading establishments, the rush of traffic
in your street-cars and elevated railways, your gigantic hotels and Fifth Avenue palaces, I
was suddenly reminded of the Italian Republics of the Middle Ages; and recalled the fact that
while there was growing up in them great commercial activity, a development of the arts which
made them the envy of Europe, and a building of princely mansions which continue to be the
admiration of travellers, their people were gradually losing their freedom.

Do you mean this as a suggestion that we are doing the like?

It seems to me that you are. You retain the forms of freedom; but, so far as I can gather,
there has been a considerable loss of the substance. It is true that those who rule you do
not do it by means of retainers armed with swords; but they do it through regiments of men
armed with voting papers, who obey the word of command as loyally as did the dependants of
the old feudal nobles, and who thus enable their leaders to override the general will, and
make the community submit to their exactions as effectually as their prototypes of old. It
is doubtless true that each of your citizens votes for the candidate he chooses for this or
that office, from President downwards; but his hand is guided by an agency behind which leaves
him scarcely any choice. "Use your political power as we tell you, or else throw it away,"
is the alternative offered to the citizen. The political machinery as it is now worked, has
little resemblance to that contemplated at the outset of your political life. Manifestly, those
who framed your Constitution never dreamed that twenty thousand citizens would go to the poll
led by a "boss." America exemplifies at the other end of the social scale, a change analogous
to that which has taken place under sundry despotisms. You know that in Japan, before the recent
Revolution, the divine ruler, the Mikado, nominally supreme, was practically a puppet in the
hands of his chief minister, the Shogun. Here it seems to me that "the sovereign people" is
fast becoming a puppet which moves and speaks as wire-pullers determine.

Then you think that Republican institutions are a failure?

By no means: I imply no such conclusion. Thirty years ago, when often discussing politics with
an English friend, and defending Republican institutions, as I always have done and do still,
and when he urged against me the ill-working of such institutions over here, I habitually replied
that the Americans got their form of government by a happy accident, not by normal progress,
and that they would have to go back before they could go forward. What has since happened seems
to me to have justified that view; and what I see now, confirms me in it. America is showing,
on a larger scale than ever before, that "paper Constitutions" will not work as they are intended
to work. The truth, first recognized by Mackintosh, that Constitutions are not made but grow,
which is part of the larger truth that societies, throughout their whole organizations, are
not made but grow, at once, when accepted, disposes of the notion that you can work as you
hope any artificially-devised system of government. It becomes an inference that if your political
structure has been manufactured and not grown, it will forthwith begin to grow into something
different from that intended--something in harmony with the natures of the citizens, and the
conditions under which the society exists. And it evidently has been so with you. Within the
forms of your Constitution there has grown up this organization of professional politicians
altogether uncontemplated at the outset, which has become in large measure the ruling power.

But will not education and the diffusion of political knowledge fit men for free institutions?

No. It is essentially a question of character, and only in a secondary degree a question of
knowledge. But for the universal delusion about education as a panacea for political evils,
this would have been made sufficiently clear by the evidence daily disclosed in your papers.
Are not the men who officer and control your Federal, your State, and your Municipal organizations--who
manipulate your caucuses and conventions, and run your partisan campaigns--all educated men?
And has their education prevented them from engaging in, or permitting, or condoning, the briberies,
lobbyings, and other corrupt methods which vitiate the actions of your administrations? Perhaps
party newspapers exaggerate these things; but what am I to make of the testimony of your civil
service reformers--men of all parties? If I understand the matter aright, they are attacking,
as vicious and dangerous, a system which has grown up under the natural spontaneous working
of your free institutions--are exposing vices which education has proved powerless to prevent?

Of course, ambitious and unscrupulous men will secure the offices, and education will aid them
in their selfish purposes. But would not those purposes be thwarted, and better Government
secured, by raising the standard of knowledge among the people at large?

Very little. The current theory is that if the young are taught what is right, and the reasons
why it is right, they will do what is right when they grow up. But considering what religious
teachers have been doing these two thousand years, it seems to me that all history is against
the conclusion, as much as is the conduct of these well-educated citizens I have referred to;
and I do not see why you expect better results among the masses. Personal interests will sway
the men in the ranks, as they sway the men above them; and the education which fails to make
the last consult public good rather than private good, will fail to make the first do it. The
benefits of political purity are so general and remote, and the profit to each individual is
so inconspicuous, that the common citizen, educate him as you like, will habitually occupy
himself with his personal affairs, and hold it not worth his while to fight against each abuse
as soon as it appears. Not lack of information, but lack of certain moral sentiment, is the
root of the evil.

You mean that people have not a sufficient sense of public duty?

Well, that is one way of putting it; but there is a more specific way. Probably it will surprise
you if I say the American has not, I think, a sufficiently quick sense of his own claims, and,
at the same time, as a necessary consequence, not a sufficiently quick sense of the claims
of others--for the two traits are organically related. I observe that they tolerate various
small interferences and dictations which Englishmen are prone to resist. I am told that the
English are remarked on for their tendency to grumble in such cases; and I have no doubt it
is true.

Do you think it worth while for people to make themselves disagreeable by resenting every trifling
aggression? We Americans think it involves too much loss of time and temper, and doesn't pay.

Exactly; that is what I mean by character. It is this easy-going readiness to permit small
trespasses, because it would be troublesome or profitless or unpopular to oppose them, which
leads to the habit of acquiescence in wrong, and the decay of free institutions. Free institutions
can be maintained only by citizens, each of whom is instant to oppose every illegitimate act,
every assumption of supremacy, every official excess of power, however trivial it may seem.
As Hamlet says, there is such a thing as "greatly to find quarrel in a straw," when the straw
implies a principle. If, as you say of the American, he pauses to consider whether he can afford
the time and trouble--whether it will pay, corruption is sure to creep in. All these lapses
from higher to lower forms begin in trifling ways, and it is only by incessant watchfulness
that they can be prevented. As one of your early statesmen said--"The price of liberty is eternal
vigilance." But it is far less against foreign aggressions upon national liberty that this
vigilance is required, than against the insidious growth of domestic interferences with personal
liberty. In some private administrations which I have been concerned with, I have often insisted
that instead of assuming, as people usually do, that things are going right until it is proved
that they are going wrong, the proper course is to assume that they are going wrong until it
is proved that they are going right. You will find continually that private corporations, such
as joint-stock banking companies, come to grief from not acting on this principle; and what
holds of these small and simple private administrations holds still more of the great and complex
public administrations. People are taught, and I suppose believe, that the "heart of man is
deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked;" and yet, strangely enough, believing this,
they place implicit trust in those they appoint to this or that function. I do not think so
ill of human nature; but, on the other hand, I do not think so well of human nature as to believe
it will go straight without being watched.

You hinted that while Americans do not assert their own individualities sufficiently in small
matters, they, reciprocally, do not sufficiently respect the individualities of others.

Did I? Here, then, comes another of the inconveniences of interviewing. I should have kept
this opinion to myself if you had asked me no questions; and now I must either say what I do
not think, which I cannot, or I must refuse to answer, which, perhaps, will be taken to mean
more than I intend, or I must specify, at the risk of giving offence. As the least evil, I
suppose I must do the last. The trait I refer to comes out in various ways, small and great.
It is shown by the disrespectful manner in which individuals are dealt with in your journals--the
placarding of public men in sensational headings, the dragging of private people and their
affairs into print. There seems to be a notion that the public have a right to intrude on private
life as far as they like; and this I take to be a kind of moral trespassing. Then, in a larger
way, the trait is seen in this damaging of private property by your elevated railways without
making compensation; and it is again seen in the doings of railway autocrats, not only when
overriding the rights of shareholders, but in dominating over courts of justice and State governments.
The fact is that free institutions can be properly worked only by men, each of whom is jealous
of his own rights, and also sympathetically jealous of the rights of others--who will neither
himself aggress on his neighbours in small things or great, nor tolerate aggression on them
by others. The Republican form of government is the highest form of government; but because
of this it requires the highest type of human nature--a type nowhere at present existing. We
have not grown up to it; nor have you.

But we thought, Mr. Spencer, you were in favour of free government in the sense of relaxed
restraints, and letting men and things very much alone, or what is called laissez faire?

That is a persistent misunderstanding of my opponents. Everywhere, along with the reprobation
of Government intrusion into various spheres where private activities should be left to themselves,
I have contended that in its special sphere, the maintenance of equitable relations among citizens,
governmental action should be extended and elaborated.

To return to your various criticisms, must I then understand that you think unfavourably of
our future?

No one can form anything more than vague and general conclusions respecting your future. The
factors are too numerous, too vast, too far beyond measure in their quantities and intensities.
The world has never before seen social phenomena at all comparable with those presented in
the United States. A society spreading over enormous tracts, while still preserving its political
continuity, is a new thing. This progressive incorporation of vast bodies of immigrants of
various bloods, has never occurred on such a scale before. Large empires, composed of different
peoples, have, in previous cases, been formed by conquest and annexation. Then your immense
plexus of railways and telegraphs tends to consolidate this vast aggregate of States in a way
that no such aggregate has ever before been consolidated. And there are many minor co-operating
causes, unlike those hitherto known. No one can say how it is all going to work out. That there
will come hereafter troubles of various kinds, and very grave ones, seems highly probable;
but all nations have had, and will have, their troubles. Already you have triumphed over one
great trouble, and may reasonably hope to triumph over others. It may, I think, be concluded
that, both because of its size and the heterogeneity of its components, the American nation
will be a long time in evolving its ultimate form, but that its ultimate form will be high.
One great result is, I think, tolerably clear. From biological truths it is to be inferred
that the eventual mixture of the allied varieties of the Aryan race forming the population,
will produce a finer type of man than has hitherto existed; and a type of man more plastic,
more adaptable, more capable of undergoing the modifications needful for complete social life.
I think that whatever difficulties they may have to surmount, and whatever tribulations they
may have to pass through, the Americans may reasonably look forward to a time when they will
have produced a civilization grander than any the world has known.

II.--A SPEECH:

Delivered on the occasion of a Complimentary Dinner in New York, on November 9, 1882.

       *       *       *       *       *

[A few words may fitly be added respecting the causes of this over-activity in American life--causes
which may be identified as having in recent times partially operated among ourselves, and as
having wrought kindred, though less marked, effects. It is the more worth while to trace the
genesis of this undue absorption of the energies in work, since it well serves to illustrate
the general truth which should be ever present to all legislators and politicians, that the
indirect and unforeseen results of any cause affecting a society are frequently, if not habitually,
greater and more important than the direct and foreseen results.

This high pressure under which Americans exist, and which is most intense in places like Chicago,
where the prosperity and rate of growth are greatest, is seen by many intelligent Americans
themselves to be an indirect result of their free institutions and the absence of those class-distinctions
and restraints existing in older communities. A society in which the man who dies a millionaire
is so often one who commenced life in poverty, and in which (to paraphrase a French saying
concerning the soldier) every news-boy carries a president's seal in his bag, is, by consequence,
a society in which all are subject to a stress of competition for wealth and honour, greater
than can exist in a society whose members are nearly all prevented from rising out of the ranks
in which they were born, and have but remote possibilities of acquiring fortunes. In those
European societies which have in great measure preserved their old types of structure (as in
our own society up to the time when the great development of industrialism began to open ever-multiplying
careers for the producing and distributing classes) there is so little chance of overcoming
the obstacles to any great rise in position or possessions, that nearly all have to be content
with their places: entertaining little or no thought of bettering themselves. A manifest concomitant
is that, fulfilling, with such efficiency as a moderate competition requires, the daily tasks
of their respective situations, the majority become habituated to making the best of such pleasures
as their lot affords, during whatever leisure they get. But it is otherwise where an immense
growth of trade multiplies greatly the chances of success to the enterprising; and still more
is it otherwise where class-restrictions are partially removed or wholly absent. Not only are
more energy and thought put into the time daily occupied in work, but the leisure comes to
be trenched upon, either literally by abridgment, or else by anxieties concerning business.
Clearly, the larger the number who, under such conditions, acquire property, or achieve higher
positions, or both, the sharper is the spur to the rest. A raised standard of activity establishes
itself and goes on rising. Public applause given to the successful, becoming in communities
thus circumstanced the most familiar kind of public applause, increases continually the stimulus
to action. The struggle grows more and more strenuous, and there comes an increasing dread
of failure--a dread of being "left," as the Americans say: a significant word, since it is
suggestive of a race in which the harder any one runs, the harder others have to run to keep
up with him--a word suggestive of that breathless haste with which each passes from a success
gained to the pursuit of a further success. And on contrasting the English of to-day with the
English of a century ago, we may see how, in a considerable measure, the like causes have entailed
here kindred results.

Even those who are not directly spurred on by this intensified struggle for wealth and honour,
are indirectly spurred on by it. For one of its effects is to raise the standard of living,
and eventually to increase the average rate of expenditure for all. Partly for personal enjoyment,
but much more for the display which brings admiration, those who acquire fortunes distinguish
themselves by luxurious habits. The more numerous they become, the keener becomes the competition
for that kind of public attention given to those who make themselves conspicuous by great expenditure.
The competition spreads downwards step by step; until, to be "respectable," those having relatively
small means feel obliged to spend more on houses, furniture, dress, and food; and are obliged
to work the harder to get the requisite larger income. This process of causation is manifest
enough among ourselves; and it is still more manifest in America, where the extravagance in
style of living is greater than here.

Thus, though it seems beyond doubt that the removal of all political and social barriers, and
the giving to each man an unimpeded career, must be purely beneficial; yet there is (at first)
a considerable set-off from the benefits. Among those who in older communities have by laborious
lives gained distinction, some may be heard privately to confess that "the game is not worth
the candle;" and when they hear of others who wish to tread in their steps, shake their heads
and say--"If they only knew!" Without accepting in full so pessimistic an estimate of success,
we must still say that very generally the cost of the candle deducts largely from the gain
of the game. That which in these exceptional cases holds among ourselves, holds more generally
in America. An intensified life, which may be summed up as--great labour, great profit, great
expenditure--has for its concomitant a wear and tear which considerably diminishes in one direction
the good gained in another. Added together, the daily strain through many hours and the anxieties
occupying many other hours--the occupation of consciousness by feelings that are either indifferent
or painful, leaving relatively little time for occupation of it by pleasurable feelings--tend
to lower its level more than its level is raised by the gratifications of achievement and the
accompanying benefits. So that it may, and in many cases does, result that diminished happiness
goes along with increased prosperity. Unquestionably, as long as order is fairly maintained,
that absence of political and social restraints which gives free scope to the struggles for
profit and honour, conduces greatly to material advance of the society--develops the industrial
arts, extends and improves the business organizations, augments the wealth; but that it raises
the value of individual life, as measured by the average state of its feeling, by no means
follows. That it will do so eventually, is certain; but that it does so now seems, to say the
least, very doubtful.

The truth is that a society and its members act and react in such wise that while, on the one
hand, the nature of the society is determined by the natures of its members; on the other hand,
the activities of its members (and presently their natures) are redetermined by the needs of
the society, as these alter: change in either entails change in the other. It is an obvious
implication that, to a great extent, the life of a society so sways the wills of its members
as to turn them to its ends. That which is manifest during the militant stage, when the social
aggregate coerces its units into co-operation for defence, and sacrifices many of their lives
for its corporate preservation, holds under another form during the industrial stage, as we
at present know it. Though the co-operation of citizens is now voluntary instead of compulsory;
yet the social forces impel them to achieve social ends while apparently achieving only their
own ends. The man who, carrying out an invention, thinks only of private welfare to be thereby
secured, is in far larger measure working for public welfare: instance the contrast between
the fortune made by Watt and the wealth which the steam-engine has given to mankind. He who
utilizes a new material, improves a method of production, or introduces a better way of carrying
on business, and does this for the purpose of distancing competitors, gains for himself little
compared with that which he gains for the community by facilitating the lives of all. Either
unknowingly or in spite of themselves, Nature leads men by purely personal motives to fulfil
her ends: Nature being one of our expressions for the Ultimate Cause of things, and the end,
remote when not proximate, being the highest form of human life.

Hence no argument, however cogent, can be expected to produce much effect: only here and there
one may be influenced. As in an actively militant stage of society it is impossible to make
many believe that there is any glory preferable to that of killing enemies; so, where rapid
material growth is going on, and affords unlimited scope for the energies of all, little can
be done by insisting that life has higher uses than work and accumulation. While among the
most powerful of feelings continue to be the desire for public applause and dread of public
censure--while the anxiety to achieve distinction, now by conquering enemies, now by beating
competitors, continues predominant--while the fear of public reprobation affects men more than
the fear of divine vengeance (as witness the long survival of duelling in Christian societies);
this excess of work which ambition prompts, seems likely to continue with but small qualification.
The eagerness for the honour accorded to success, first in war and then in commerce, has been
indispensable as a means to peopling the Earth with the higher types of man, and the subjugation
of its surface and its forces to human use. Ambition may fitly come to bear a smaller ratio
to other motives, when the working out of these needs is approaching completeness; and when
also, by consequence, the scope for satisfying ambition is diminishing. Those who draw the
obvious corollaries from the doctrine of Evolution--those who believe that the process of modification
upon modification which has brought life to its present height must raise it still higher,
will anticipate that "the last infirmity of noble minds" will in the distant future slowly
decrease. As the sphere for achievement becomes smaller, the desire for applause will lose
that predominance which it now has. A better ideal of life may simultaneously come to prevail.
When there is fully recognized the truth that moral beauty is higher than intellectual power--when
the wish to be admired is in large measure replaced by the wish to be loved; that strife for
distinction which the present phase of civilization shows us will be greatly moderated. Along
with other benefits may then come a rational proportioning of work and relaxation; and the
relative claims of to-day and to-morrow may be properly balanced.--H. S.]

UNIVERSITY ELECTIONS.

The late election for the University of Cambridge had an ending which may well set many of
us a-thinking. That Mr. Raikes should have been chosen by an overwhelming majority rather than
Mr. Stuart means a good deal more than a mere party victory and party defeat. Combined with
several elections of late years at Oxford, it is enough to make us all turn over in our minds
the question of University representation in general. The facts taken altogether look as if
those constituencies to which we might naturally look for the return of members of more than
average personal eminence were committed, in the choice of their representatives, not only
to one particular political party, but to absolute indifference to every claim beyond membership
of that particular party. It would be unreasonable to expect a conscientious Conservative to
vote for a Liberal candidate; but one might expect any party, in choosing candidates for such
constituencies as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, to put forward its best men. And
we cannot, after all, think so ill of the great Conservative party as to believe that the present
representatives of Oxford and Cambridge are its best men. We ought indeed not to forget that,
whatever Mr. Beresford-Hope has since shown himself, he was brought forward, partly at least,
as a man of scholarship and intellectual tastes, and that he received many Liberal votes in
the belief that he was less widely removed from Liberal ideas than another Conservative candidate.
This would seem to have been the last trace of an old tradition, the last faint glimmering
of the belief that the representative of an University should have something about him specially
appropriate to the representation of an University. In Oxford that tradition had, on the Conservative
side, given way earlier. Another tradition gave way with it, one which I at least did not regret,
the tradition that an University seat should be a seat for life. It sounded degrading when
a proposer of Mr. Gladstone stooped to appeal to the doctrine, "ut semel electus semper eligatur."
But be that rule wise or foolish, it was on the Conservative side that it was broken down.
It gave way to the rule that Mr. Gladstone was always to be opposed, and that it did not matter
who could be got to oppose him. Again I cannot believe that the Conservative ranks did not
contain better men than the grotesque succession of nobodies by whom Mr. Gladstone was opposed.
But in the course of those elections the rule was established at Oxford, and it now seems to
be adopted at Cambridge, that anybody will do to be an University member, provided only he
is an unflinching supporter of the party which, as recent elections show, still keeps a large
majority in both Universities.

Mr. Gladstone was very nearly the ideal University member. I say "very nearly," because to
my mind the absolutely ideal state of things would be if the Universities could catch such
men as Mr. Gladstone young, and could bring them into Parliament as their own, before they
had been laid hold of by any other constituency. The late jubilee of Mr. Gladstone's political
life ought to have been the jubilee of his election, not for Newark but for Oxford. The Universities
should choose men who have already shown themselves to be scholars and who bid fair one day
to be statesmen. I am not sure about the policy of bringing forward actual University officials.
There is sure to be a cry against them, and it is not clear that they are the best choice in
themselves. It may be as well however to remember that the example was set, though in rather
an amusing shape, by the Conservatives themselves. Dr. Marsham, late Warden of Merton, who
was brought forward thirty years ago in opposition to Mr. Gladstone, did not belong to exactly
the same class of academical officials as Professor Stuart and Professor H. J. S. Smith; still,
as an academical official of some kind, he had something in common with them, as distinguished
from either Mr. Gladstone or Mr. Raikes. At the last elections both for Oxford and Cambridge,
the Liberal candidate was an actual Professor. Mr. Stuart indeed is much more than a mere professor;
he has shown his capacity for practical work of various kinds. But I could not but look on
the Oxford choice of 1878 as unlucky. Mr. H. J. S. Smith was brought forward purely on the
ground of "distinction," distinction, it would seem, so great that moral right and wrong went
for nothing by its side. Just at that moment right and wrong were emphatically weighing in
the balance; it was the very crisis of the fate of South-Eastern Europe. But we were told that
Mr. Smith's candidature had "no reference to the Eastern Question;" he was, we were told, supported
by men who took opposite views on that matter. That is to say, when the most distinct question
of right and wrong that ever was put before any people was at that moment placed before our
eyes, we were asked to put away all thought of moral right and moral duty in the presence of
the long string of letters after Mr. Smith's name. Better, I should have said, to choose, even
for the University, a man who could not read or write, if he had been ready to strive heart
and soul for justice and freedom alongside of Mr. Gladstone and the Duke of Argyll. Yet no
such hard choice was laid upon us. There was a man standing by, another bearer of the same
great Teutonic name, not young indeed in years, but who might have gone fresh to Parliament
as the University's own choice, one whom it would have been worth some effort to keep within
the bounds of England and of Europe, one who to a list of "distinctions" at least as long as
that of the candidate actually chosen, added the noblest distinction of all, that of having
been, through a life of varied experiences, the consistent and unflinching champion of moral
righteousness. I do not know that Mr. Goldwin Smith would have had a greater chance--perhaps
he might have had even less chance--of election than Mr. H. J. S. Smith. But there would have
been greater comfort in manly defeat in open strife under such a leader than there could be
in a defeat which it had been vainly hoped to escape by a compromise on the great moral question
of the moment. The Oxford Liberals lost, and, I must say, they deserved to lose. It is a great
gain for an University candidate to be "distinguished;" but one would think that it would commonly
be possible to find a "distinguished" candidate who is at once "distinguished" and something
better as well.

Still at Oxford in 1878 Mr. H. J. S. Smith was the accepted candidate of the Liberal party,
and in that character he underwent a crushing defeat. It may be, or it may not be, that a candidate
of more decided principles would have gained more votes than the actual candidate gained; he
certainly would not have gained enough to turn the scale. Mr. Smith was defeated by a candidate
who was utterly undistinguished; and who, instead of simply halting, like Mr. Smith, between
right and wrong, was definitely committed to the cause of wrong. Mr. Talbot became member for
the University on the same principle on which Mr. Gladstone's successive opponents were brought
forward, the principle that anybody will do, if only he be a Tory. Any stick is good enough
to beat the Liberal dog. When Toryism showed itself in its darkest colours, when it meant the
rule of Lord Beaconsfield, and when the rule of Lord Beaconsfield meant, before all things,
the strengthening of the power of evil in South-Eastern Europe, a constituency, in which the
clerical vote is said to be decisive, preferred, by an overwhelming majority, the candidate
who most distinctly represented the bondage of Christian nations under the yoke of the misbeliever.
It is quite possible that crowds voted at the Oxford election, as at other elections, in support
of Lord Beaconsfield's ministry, in utter indifference or in utter ignorance as to what support
of Lord Beaconsfield's ministry meant. The Conservative party was conventionally supposed to
be the Church party; and so men calling themselves Christians, calling themselves clergymen,
rushed, with the cry of "Church" in their mouths, to do all that in them lay for the sworn
allies of Antichrist.

A constituency which could return a supporter of Lord Beaconsfield in 1878 is hopelessly Tory--hopelessly
that is, till a new generation shall have supplanted the existing one. It is Conservative,
not in the sense of acting on any intelligible Conservative principle, but in the sense of
supporting anything that calls itself Conservative, be its principles what they may. No measure
could be less really Conservative, none could more be opposed to the feelings and traditions
of a large part of the clergy, than the Public Worship Act. A large part of the clergy grumbled
at it; some voted for the Liberals in 1880 on the strength of it; but it did not arouse a discontent
so strong or so general as seriously to deprive the so-called Conservative party of clerical
support. It was perhaps unreasonable to expect much change in the older class of electors,
clerical or lay; but the results of the two elections, of Oxford in 1878 and of Cambridge in
1882, are disappointing in another way. The Universities, and therewith the University constituencies,
have largely increased within the last few years. The number of electors at Oxford is far greater
than it was in the days of Mr. Gladstone's elections; at Cambridge the increase must be greater
still since any earlier election at which a poll was taken. And it was certainly hoped that
the increase would have been altogether favourable to the Liberal side. Among the new electors
there was a large lay element, a certain Nonconformist element; even among the clergy a party
was known to be growing who had found the way to reconcile strict Churchmanship with Liberal
politics, and whose Christianity was not of the kind which is satisfied to walk hand-in-hand
with the Turk. In these different ways it was only reasonable to expect that the result of
an University election was now likely to be, if not the actual return of a Liberal member,
yet at least a poll which should show that the Conservative majority was largely diminished.
Instead of this, both at Oxford in 1878 and at Cambridge in 1882 the Conservative candidate
comes in by a majority which is simply overwhelming. It must however be remembered that it
would be misleading to compare the poll at either of these elections with the polls at any
of Mr. Gladstone's contests. The issue was different in the two cases. The elections of 1878
and 1880 were far more distinctly trials between political parties than the several elections
in which Mr. Gladstone succeeded or the final one in which he failed. First of all, there is
a vast difference between Mr. Gladstone and any other candidate. This difference indeed cuts
both ways. The foremost man in the land is at once the best loved and the best hated man in
the land. Neither Mr. Smith nor Mr. Stuart nor any other candidate that could be thought of
could call forth either the depth of enthusiasm in his supporters or the depth of antagonism
in his opponents which is called forth by every public appearance of Mr. Gladstone. No other
man has, in the same measure as he has, won the glory of being the bugbear of cultivated "society"
and the object of the reverence and affection of thinking men. But, apart from this, the issues
were different. Mr. Smith and Mr. Stuart stood directly as Liberal candidates. Mr. Gladstone,
at least in his earlier elections, was still in party nomenclature counted among Conservatives,
and he received but little support from professed political Liberals. The constituency was
then confined to men who had signed the articles of the Established Church, and the election
largely turned on controversies within the Established Church. I venture to think that the
High Church party of that day was really a Liberal party, one that had far more in common with
the political Liberals than with the political Conservatives. But it is certain that neither
the High Churchmen nor the political Liberals would have acknowledged the kindred, and the
great mass of Mr. Gladstone's supporters in 1847, in 1852, and even later, would assuredly
not have voted for any avowedly Liberal candidate. In his later elections Mr. Gladstone received
a distinct Liberal support; still he was also supported by men who would not support a Liberal
candidate now. As he came nearer and nearer to the Liberal camp, his majorities forsook him
till he was at last rejected for Mr. Hardy. The two elections of the last four years have turned
more directly, we may say that they have turned wholly, on ordinary political issues. Controversies
within the Established Church have had little bearing on them. So far as ecclesiastical questions
have come in, the strife has been between "Church"--that kind of Church which is pue-fellow
to the Mosque--and something which is supposed not to be "Church." These late elections have
therefore been far better tests than the old ones of the strictly political feelings of the
constituencies. Looked at in that light, they certainly do not prove that the University constituencies
are more Conservative now than they were then. They do prove that the Liberal growth, the Liberal
reaction, or whatever we are to call it, in the University constituencies since that time has
been far less strong than Liberals had hoped that it had been. They do prove that the Conservatism
of those constituencies is still of a kind which, both for quantity and quality, has a very
ugly look in Liberal eyes.

Thus far we have been looking at Oxford and Cambridge only. But we must not forget that Oxford
and Cambridge are not the only Universities in the kingdom. The general results of University
elections were set forth a few weeks back in an article in the Spectator. They are certainly
not comfortable as a whole. We of Oxford and Cambridge may perhaps draw a very poor satisfaction
from the thought that we are at least not so bad as Dublin. But then we must feel in the like
proportion ashamed when we see how we stand by the side of London. A better comparison than
either is with the Universities of Scotland. From a Liberal point of view, they are much better
than Oxford and Cambridge, but still they are not nearly so good as they ought to be. The Liberalism
of the Universities of Scotland lags a long way behind the Liberalism of the Scottish people
in general. One pair of Universities returns a Liberal, the other a Conservative, in neither
case by majorities at all like the Conservative majorities at Oxford and Cambridge. Speaking
roughly, in the Scottish Universities the two parties are nearly equally balanced, a very different
state of things from what we see in the other constituencies of Scotland. If then in England
and Ireland the University constituencies are overwhelmingly Conservative, while in Liberal
Scotland they are more Conservative than Liberal, it follows that there is something amiss
either about Liberal principles or about University constituencies. And those who believe that
Liberal principles are the principles of right reason and that so-called Conservative principles
represent something other than right reason, will of course take that horn of the dilemma which
throws the blame on the University constituencies. For some reason or other, those constituencies
which might be supposed to be more enlightened, more thoughtful and better informed, than any
others are those in which the principles which we deem to be those of right reason find least
favour. Even in the most Liberal part of the kingdom, the University constituencies are the
least Liberal part of the electoral body. The facts are clear; we must grapple with them as
we can. There is something in education, in culture, in refinement, or whatever the qualities
are which are supposed to distinguish University electors from the electors of an ordinary
county or borough, which makes University electors less inclined to what we hold to be the
principles of right reason than the electors of an ordinary county or borough. Education, culture,
or whatever it is, clearly has, in political matters, a weak side to it. There is the fact;
we must look it in the face.

After all perhaps the fact is not very wonderful. There is no need to infer either that Liberal
principles are wrong or that University education is a bad thing. The Spectator goes philosophically
into the matter. The Universities give--that is, we may suppose, to those who take, only a
common degree--only a moderate education, an average education, a little knowledge and a little
culture springing from it. And the effect of this little knowledge and little culture is to
make those who have it satisfied with the state of things in which they find themselves, and
to separate themselves from those who have not even that little knowledge and little culture.
"Education," says the Spectator, "to the very moderate extent to which a University degree
attests it, is a Conservative force, because to that extent at all events it does much more
to stimulate the sense of privilege and caste than it does to enlarge the sympathies and to
strengthen the sense of justice." That is, it would seem, a pass degree tends to make a man
a Tory. It does not at all follow that even the passman's course is mischievous to him on the
whole, even if it does him no good politically. For, if it has the effect which the Spectator
says, the form which that effect takes is, in most cases, rather to keep a man a Tory than
to make him one. And it may none the less do him good in some other ways. But the Spectator
leaves it at least open to be inferred that a higher degree, or rather the knowledge and consequent
culture implied in the higher degree, does, or ought to do, something different even in the
political way. And such an inference would probably be borne out by facts. If Lord Carnarvon
looks on all passmen as "men of literary eminence and intellectual power," he must be very
nearly right in his figures when he says that three-fourths of such men are opposed to Mr.
Gladstone. But those who have really profited by their University work may doubt whether passmen
as such are entitled to that description. Indeed in the most ideal state of an University,
though it might be reasonable to expect its members to be men of intellectual power, it would
be unreasonable to expect all of them to be men of literary eminence. If by literary eminence
be meant the writing of books, some men of very high intellectual power are men of no literary
eminence whatever. Without therefore requiring the University members to be elected wholly
by men of literary eminence, we may fairly ask that they may be elected by men of more intellectual
power than the mass of the present electors. We should ask for this, even if we thought that
Lord Carnarvon was right, if we thought that, the higher the standard of the electors, the
safer would be the Tory seats. But it is perhaps only human nature to ask for it the more,
if we happen to think that the raising of the standard would have the exactly opposite result.

The evil then, to sum up the result of the Spectator's argument, is that the University elections
are determined by the votes of the passmen, and that the mass of the passmen are Tories. Now
what is the remedy for this evil? One very obvious remedy is always, on such occasions as that
which has just happened, whispered perhaps rather than very loudly proclaimed. This is the
doctrine that the representation of Universities in Parliament is altogether a mistake, and
that it would be well if the Universities were disfranchised by the next Reform Bill. And,
if the question could be discussed as a purely abstract one, there is no doubt much to be said,
from more grounds than one, against University representation. There is only one ground on
which separate University representation can be justified on the common principles on which
an English House of Commons is put together. This is the ground that each University is a distinct
community from the city or borough in which it is locally placed, something in the same way
in which it is held that a city or borough is a distinct community from the county in which
it locally stands. The University of Oxford has interests, feelings, a general corporate being,
distinct from the city of Oxford, just as the city of Oxford has interests, feelings, a general
corporate being, distinct from the county of Oxford. So, if one were maliciously given, one
might go on to argue that the choice of a representative made by the borough of Woodstock seems
to show that the inhabitants of that borough have something in them which makes them distinct
from University, county, city, or any other known division of mankind. Regarding then these
differences, the wisdom of our forefathers has ruled, not that the county of Oxford, the city,
the University, and the boroughs of Woodstock and Banbury, should join to elect nine members
after the principle of scrutin de liste, but that the nine members should be distributed among
them according to their local divisions, after the principle of scrutin d'arrondissement. On
any ground but this local one, a ground which applies to some Universities and not to others,
and which seems to have less weight than formerly in those Universities to which it does apply,
the University franchise is certainly an anomaly. It must submit to be set down as a fancy
franchise. But it is a fancy franchise which has a great weight of precedent in its favour.
Besides the original institution of the British Solomon, there is the fact that University
representation has been extended at each moment of constitutional change for a century past.
It was extended by the Union with Ireland, by the great Reform Bill, and by the legislation
of fifteen years back. Each of these changes has added to the number of University members.
And each has added to them in a way which more and more forsakes the local ground, and gives
to the University franchise more and more the character of a fancy franchise. Dublin has less
of local character than Oxford and Cambridge; London has no local character at all. Such a
grouping as that of Glasgow and Aberdeen takes away all local character from Scottish University
representation. In short, whatever James the First intended, later legislators, down to our
own day, have adopted and confirmed the principle of the fancy franchise as applied to the
Universities. There stands the anomaly, with the stamp of repeated re-enactment upon it. Some
very strong ground must therefore be found on which to attack it. Liberals may think that there
is a very strong ground in the fact that University representation tends to strengthen the
Conservative interest, and not only to strengthen it, but to give it a kind of credit, as stamped
with the approval of the most highly educated class of electors. But this is a ground which
could not be decently brought forward. It would not do to propose the disfranchisement of a
particular class of electors merely because they commonly use their franchise in favour of
a particular political party. From a party point of view, the representation of the cities
of London and Westminster is as great a political evil as the representation of the Universities
of Oxford and Cambridge. But we could not therefore propose the disfranchisement of those cities.
The abstract question of University representation may be discussed some time. It may be discussed
in our own time on the proposal of a Conservative government or a Conservative opposition.
It may be discussed on the proposal of a Liberal government on the day when all University
members are Liberals. But the disfranchisement of the Universities could not, for very shame,
be proposed by a Liberal government when the answer would at once be made, and made with truth,
that the Universities were to be disfranchised simply because most of them return Conservative
members.

We may therefore pass by the alternative of disfranchisement as lying beyond the range of practical
politics. I use that famous phrase advisedly, because it always means that the question spoken
of has already shown that it will be a practical question some day or other. The other choice
which is commonly given us is to confine the franchise to residents. After every University
election for many years past, and not least after the one which has just taken place, we have
always heard the outcry that the real University is swamped by the nominal University, that
the body which elects in the name of the University is in no way qualified to speak in the
name of the University, and that in point of fact it does not speak the sentiments of those
to whom the name of University more properly belongs. Reckonings are made to show that, if
the election had depended, not on the large bodies of men who are now entitled to vote, but
on much smaller bodies of residents, above all of official residents, professors, tutors, and
the like, the result of the election would have been different. If then, it is argued, the
Universities are to keep the right of parliamentary representation, the right of voting should
be taken away from the mass of those who at present exercise it, and confined to those who
really represent the University, to those who are actually engaged on the spot, in the government,
the studies, or the teaching of the place.

Now every word of this outcry is true. No one can doubt that the electoral bodies of the Universities,
as at present constituted, are quite unfit to represent the Universities, to speak in their
name or to express their wishes or feelings. The franchise, at Oxford and Cambridge, is in
the hands of the two largest bodies known to the University constitution, the Convocation of
Oxford, the Senate of Cambridge. If we look at the University as a commonwealth of the ancient,
the mediæval, or the modern Swiss pattern, the election is in the hands of the Ekklêsia, the
Comitia of Tribes, the Portmannagemót, the Landesgemeinde, the Conseil Général. The franchise
is open to all academic citizens who have reached full academic growth, to all who have put
on the toga virilis as the badge of having taken a complete degree in any faculty. That is
to say, it belongs to all doctors and masters who have kept their names on the books. Now,
whatever such a body as this may seem in theory, we know what it is in practice. It is not
really an academic body. Those who really know anything or care anything about University matters
are a small minority. The mass of the University electors are men who are at once non-resident
and who have taken nothing more than that common degree which the Spectator, quite rightly,
holds to be of such small account. They often, we may believe, keep their name on the books
simply in order to vote at the University elections.

But what is the remedy? I cannot think that it is to be found in confining the election to
residents, at Oxford perhaps to members of Congregation.[1] By such a restriction we should
undoubtedly get a constituency with a much higher average of literary eminence and intellectual
power. We should get a constituency which would far more truly represent the University as
a local body. But surely we cannot look on the Universities as purely local bodies. It has
always been one of the great characteristics--I venture to think one of the great beauties--of
the English Universities that the connexion of the graduate with his University does not come
to an end when he ceases to reside, but that the master or doctor keeps all the rights of a
master or doctor wherever he may happen to dwell. The resident body has many merits and does
much good work; but it has its weaknesses. It is in the nature of things a very changing body;
it must change far more from year to year than any other electoral body. And, though the restriction
to residents would undoubtedly raise the general character of the constituency, it would get
rid of one of its best elements. Surely those who have distinguished themselves in the University,
who have worked well for the University, who are continuing in some other shape the studies
or the teaching which they have begun in the University, who are in fact carrying the University
into other places, are not to be looked on as cut off from the University merely because they
have ceased locally to reside in it. Not a few of the best heads and the best professors--I
suspect we might say the best of both classes--are those who have not always lived in the University,
but who have been called back to it after a period of absence. To the knowledge of local affairs,
which belong to the mere resident, they bring a wider knowledge, a wider experience, which
makes them better judges even of local affairs. And can men whom the University thus welcomes
after absence be deemed unworthy even to give a vote during the time of absence? One reads
a great deal about the real University being swamped by voters running in from London clubs,
barristers' chambers, country houses, country parsonages. And no doubt a great many most incompetent
voters do come from all those quarters. But some of the most competent come also. The restriction
to residents would have disfranchised for ever or for a season most of our greatest scholars,
the authors of the greatest works, for the last forty years. Yet surely sad men are the University
in the highest sense; they are the men best entitled to speak in its name, whether they are
at a given moment locally resident or not. It would surely not be a gain, it would not increase
the literary eminence or intellectual power of the constituency, to shut out those men, and
to confine everything to a body made up so largely of one element which is too permanent and
another which is too fluctuating, of old heads and of young tutors. Then too there is a very
reasonable presumption in the human mind, and specially in the English mind, against taking
away the rights of any class of men without some very good reason. And in this case there are
at least as strong arguments against the restriction as there are for it. I speak only of the
simple proposal to confine the election to residents, in Oxford language to transfer it from
Convocation to Congregation. There are indeed other plans, to let Convocation elect one member
and Congregation the other--something like the election of the consuls at an early stage of
the Roman commonwealth--or to leave the present members as they are, and to give the Universities
yet more members to be chosen by Congregation. Now I will not say that these schemes lie without
the range of practical politics, because they show no sign of being ever likely to come within
it. They may safely be referred to Mr. Thomas Hare.

While therefore I see as strongly as any man the evils of election by Convocation, as Convocation
is at present constituted,[2] I cannot think that restriction to Congregation or to residents
in any shape is the right remedy for the evil. I venture to think that there is a more excellent
way. The remedy that I propose has this advantage, that, though it would practically lessen
the numbers of the constituency, and would, gradually at least, get rid of its most incompetent
elements, it would not be, in any constitutional sense, a restrictive measure. It would not
deprive any recognized class of men of any right. And it would have the further advantage that
it would be a change which could be made by the University itself, a change which would not
be a mere political change affecting parliamentary elections only, but a real academical reform
affecting other matters as well, a reform which would be simply getting rid of a modern abuse
and falling back on an older and better state of things. It is one of three changes which I
have looked for all my life, but towards which, amidst countless academical revolutions, I
have never seen the least step taken. I confess that all three have this to be said against
them, that they would affect college interests and would give the resident body a good deal
of trouble. But this is no argument against the measures themselves; it only shows that it
would be hard work to get them passed. Of these three the first and least important is the
establishment of an University matriculation examination. (Things change so fast at Oxford
that this may have been brought in within the last term or two; but, if so, I have not heard
of it.) Secondly, a rational reconstruction of the Schools, so as to have real schools of history
and philology--perhaps better still a school of history and philology combined--without regard
to worn out and unscientific distinctions of "ancient" and "modern." Thirdly, the change which
alone of the three concerns us now, the establishment of some kind of standard for the degree
of Master of Arts. Through all the changes of more than thirty years, I have always said, when
I have had a chance of saying anything, Give us neither a resident oligarchy nor a non-resident
mob. Keep Convocation with its ancient powers, but let Convocation be what it was meant to
be. Let the great assembly of masters and doctors go untouched; but let none be made masters
or doctors who do not show some fitness to bear those titles. Every degree was meant to be
a reality; it was meant, as the word degree implies, to mark some kind of proficiency; a degree
which does not mark some kind of proficiency is an absurdity in itself. A degree conferred
without any regard to the qualifications of the person receiving it is in fact a fraud; it
is giving a testimonial without regard to the truth of the facts which the testimonial states.
Now this is glaringly the case with the degree of Master of Arts as at present given. In each
faculty there are two stages: the lower degree of bachelor, the higher degree of master or
doctor. The lower degree is meant to mark a certain measure of proficiency in the studies of
the faculty; the higher degree is meant to mark a higher measure of proficiency, that measure
which qualifies a man to become, if he thinks good, a teacher in that faculty. The bachelor's
degree is meant to mark that a man has made satisfactory progress in introductory studies;
the master's degree is meant, as its name implies, to mark that a man is really a master in
some subject. The bachelor's degree in short should be respectable; the master's degree should
be honourable. Nowadays we certainly cannot say that the master's degree is honourable; it
might be almost too much to say that the bachelor's degree is respectable. I am far from saying
that an University education, even for a mere passman, is worthless; I am far from thinking
so. But the mere pass degree is very far from implying literary eminence or intellectual power.
Eminence indeed is hardly to be looked for at the age when the bachelor's degree is taken;
it is only one or two men in a generation who can send out "The Holy Roman Empire" as a prize
essay. But the degree does not imply even the promise or likelihood of eminence or power. The
best witness to the degradation of the simple degree is the elaborate and ever-growing system
of class-lists, designed to mark what the degree itself ought in some measure to mark. The
need of having class-lists is the clearest confession of the very small value of the simple
degree by itself. And, whatever may be the value of the bachelor's degree, the value of the
master's degree is exactly the same. The master's degree proves no greater knowledge or skill
than the bachelor's degree; it proves only that its bearer has lived some more years and has
paid some more pounds. It is given, as a matter of course, to every one who has taken the degree
of bachelor--never mind after how many plucks--and has reached the standing which is required
of a master. The bestowing of two degrees is a mere make-believe; the higher degree proves
nothing, beyond mere lapse of time, which is not equally proved by the lower.

Now this surely ought not to be. That the first degree should be next door to worthless, and
that the second degree should be worth no more than the first, is surely to make University
degrees a mockery, a delusion, and a snare. Men who do not know how little a degree means are
apt to be deceived, even in practical matters, by its outward show. Men who see that a degree
proves very little, but who do not look much further, are apt most untruly to undervalue the
whole system and studies of the University. In common consistency, in common fairness, the
degrees should mean what their names imply. The bachelor's degree should prove something, and
the master's degree should prove something more. As I just said, the bachelor's degree should
be respectable and the master's degree should be honourable. I should even like to see the
bachelor's degree so respectable that we might get rid of the modern device of class-lists;
but that is not our question at present. The immediate business is to make the master's degree
a real thing, an honest thing, to make it the sign of a higher standard than the bachelor's
degree, whether the bachelor's standard be fixed high or low. Let there be some kind of standard,
some kind of test. Its particular shape, whether an examination, or a disputation, or the writing
of a thesis, or anything else, need not now be discussed. I ask only that there should be a
test of proficiency of some kind, and that there should be the widest possible range of subjects
in which proficiency may be tested. Let a man have the degree, if he shows himself capable
of scholarly or scientific treatment of some branch of some subject, but not otherwise. The
bachelor's degree should show a general knowledge of several subjects, which may serve as a
ground-work for the minuter knowledge of one. The master's degree should show that that minuter
knowledge of some one subject has been gained. The complete degree should show, if not the
actual presence, at least the very certain promise, of literary eminence or intellectual power.
We should thus get, neither the resident oligarchy nor the non-resident mob; we should have
a body of real masters and doctors worthy of the name. Men who had once dealt minutely with
some subject of their own choice would not be likely to throw their books aside for the rest
of their days, as the man who has merely got his bachelor's degree by a compulsory smattering
often does. We should get a Convocation or Senate fit, not only to elect members of Parliament,
but to do the other duties which the constitution of the University lays on its Convocation
or Senate. And I cannot help thinking that, if such a change as this had been adopted at the
time of the first University Commission, it would have been less needful to cut down the powers
of Convocation in the way which, Convocation being left what it is, certainly was needful.

Such a change as I propose would doubtless lessen the numbers of the constituency. Possibly
it would not lessen them quite so much as might seem at first sight. A high standard, but a
standard attainable with effort, would surely make many qualify themselves who at present do
not. Still it would lessen the numbers very considerably, and it would be meant to do so. Yet
it would not be a restrictive measure in the same sense in which confining the franchise to
Congregation would be a restrictive measure. It would not take away the votes of any class.
The franchise would still be the same, exercised by the same body; only that body would be
purified and brought back to the character which it was originally meant to bear. The purifying
would be gradual. The doctrine of vested interests, that doctrine so dear to the British mind,
would of course secure every elector in the possession of his vote as long as he lives and
keeps his name on the books. But the ranks of the unqualified would no longer be yearly reinforced.
In course of time we should have a competent body. And the great advantage of this kind of
remedy is that it is so distinctly an academical remedy. It would not come as a mere clause
in a parliamentary reform bill. It would affect the parliamentary constituency; but it would
affect it only as one thing among others. It would be a general improvement in the character
of the Great Council of the University, which would make it better qualified to discharge all
its duties, that of choosing members of Parliament among them. In the purely political look-out,
we may believe that one result of the change would be to make the election of Liberal members
for the Universities much more likely. But neither this nor any other purely political result
would be the sole and direct object of the change. Even if it did not accomplish this object,
it would do good in other ways. If the Universities, under such a system, still chose Conservative
members, we should have no right to complain. We should feel that we had been fairly and honourably
beaten by adversaries who had a right to speak. It would be an unpleasant result if the real
Universities should be proved to be inveterately Tory. But it would be a result less provoking
than the present state of things, in which Tory members are chosen for the Universities by
men who have no call to speak in the name of the Universities at all.

   EDWARD A. FREEMAN.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] That is, to all members of Convocation who are either resident or hold University office.
This, besides the Chancellor and a few other great personages, lets in a few professors and
examiners who are non-resident.

[2] I use Oxford language, as that which I myself best understand; but I believe that, all
that I say applies equally to Cambridge also. For "Convocation" one must of course, in Cambridge
language, read "Senate."

HAMLET: A NEW READING.

There is a sense in which the stage alone can give the full significance to a dramatic poem,
just as a lyric finds its full interpretation in music; but we prefer that a song of Goethe
or Shelley should wait for its music, and in the meantime suggest its own aërial accompaniment,
rather than be vulgarized in the setting. And even when set for the voice by a master, although
there is a gain in as far as the charm is brought home to the senses, yet there is a loss in
proportion to the beauty of the song; for if it is delicate the finer spiritual grace departs,
and if it is ardent the passion is liable to scream, and, above all, there is a vague but appreciable
loss of identity; so that on the whole we please ourselves best with the literary form. There
is the same balance of gain and loss in the relation of the drama to the stage. The gain is
in proportion to the excellence of the acting, and the loss in proportion to the beauty o£
the play. It is well then that, as the lyric poem no longer demands the lyre, the poetical
drama has become, though more recently, independent of the stage. Each has its own perspective
of life, its own idea of Nature, its own brilliancy, its own dulness, and finally its own public;
and notwithstanding the objections of some critics, it will soon be admitted that a work may
be strictly and intrinsically dramatic, and yet only fit for the study--that is, for ideal
representation. For there is a theatre in every imagination, where we produce the old masterpiece
in its simplicity and dignity, and where the new work appears and is followed in plot and action,
and conflict of feeling, and play of character, and rhythm of part with part, if not with as
keen an excitement, at least with as fair a judgment, as if we were criticizing the actors,
not the piece. And were all theatres closed, the drama--whether as the free and spontaneous
outflow of observation, fancy, and humour, or as the intense reflection of the movement of
life in its animation of joy and pain--would remain one of the most natural and captivating
forms in which the creative impulse of the poet can work. When we look at its variety and flexibility
of structure--from the lyrical tragedy of Æschylus to a "Proverbe" of De Musset; at its diversity
of spirit--from the exuberance of a comedy of Aristophanes and the caprice of an Elizabethan
mask to the serenity of "Comus" and Tasso, and the terror of "Agamemnon" and "Macbeth;" at
its range of expression--from, the full-toned Greek and English Iambic to the plain but sparkling
prose of Molière, and from that again to the intricate harmonies of Calderon, Goethe, and Shelley;
with its use of all voices, from vociferous mob to melodious daughters of Ocean, and its command
of all colour, from the gloom of Medea to the splendour of Marlowe's Helen,--it is a small
matter to remember the connection of work or author with the stage--how long they held it,
how soon they were dispossessed, how and at what intervals and with what uncertain footing
they returned. We do not accept them because they were popular in their day, and we do not
reject them because they are not suitable to ours. They have lost no vivacity or strength or
grace by their exclusion from the stage and their exile to literature--to that permanent theatre
for which the poet, freely using any and every form of dramatic expression, should now work.

   "There is the playhouse now, there you must sit....
   For 'tis your thoughts that now must deck our king."

The relevancy of these remarks, as an introduction to a study of one of Shakespeare's plays,
will presently appear.

I.

Shakespeare, although a master of theatrical effect, is often found working rather away from
it than toward it, and at a meaning and beauty beyond the limits of stage expression. This
is because he is more dramatist than playwright, and will always produce and complete his work
in its ideal integrity, even if, in so doing, he outruns the sympathy of his audience. This
disposition may be traced not only in the plays it has banished from the stage, including such
a masterpiece as "Antony and Cleopatra," but in those that are universally popular, such as
"The Merchant of Venice," where the fifth Act, although it closes and harmonizes the drama
as a work of art with perfect grace, is but a tame conclusion to the theatrical piece; and
in the scenes that furnish us with the delicate and finished study of Antonio, we find the
audience intent on the situation and the poet on the character; for we no more expect to see
the true Antonio on the stage than to see the true moonlight shimmering on the trees in Belmont
Park. But sometimes the play will transcend the limits of stage expression by being too purely
and perfectly dramatic, as in "Lear." For not only is it, as Lamb points out,[3] impossible
for the actor to give the convulsions of the father's grief, and yet preserve the dignity of
the king, but the sustained intensity of passion fatigues both voice and ear when they should
be most impressive and impressed. Had Shakespeare written with a view to stage effect, he would
not in the first two acts have stretched the voice through all the tones and intervals of passion,
and then demand more thrilling intonations and louder outcries to meet and match the tumult
of the storm. This greatest of all tragedies is written beyond the compass of the human voice,
and can only be fully represented on that ideal stage, where, instead of hoarse lament and
husky indignation, we hear each of us the tones that most impress and affect us, and can command
the true degrees of feeling in their illimitable scale.

But in "Hamlet" the inadequacy of the stage is of another kind. It leads to a general displacement
of motive, and change of focus, the hero's character being obscured in the attempt to make
it effective. And for this to some extent the stage itself, as a place of popular entertainment,
and not the actor, is at fault. Some such ambiguity as this seems, indeed, only natural, when
we recall the circumstances attending the composition of the play.

By common consent of the best authorities, "Hamlet" represents the work of many years. I make
no conjectures, but content myself with Mr. Dowden's statement of the case:--"Over 'Hamlet,'
as over 'Romeo and Juliet,' it is supposed that Shakespeare laboured long and carefully. Like
'Romeo and Juliet,' the play exists in two forms, and there is reason to believe that in the
earlier form, in each instance, we possess an imperfect report of Shakespeare's first treatment
of his theme,"[4] We know also that Shakespeare had before him, at least as early as 1589,
an old play in which "a ghost cried dismally like an oyster wife, 'Hamlet! Revenge!'" and Shakespeare
worked upon this until from what was probably a rather sorry melodrama he produced the most
intellectual play that keeps the stage. And the very sensational character of the piece enabled
him to steal into it the results of long and deep meditation without hazard to its popularity.
He seems to have withdrawn Hamlet from time to time for a special study, and then to have restored
and readjusted the hero to the play, touching and modulating, here and there, character and
incident in harmony with the new expression. In this way a new direction and significance would
be given to the plot, but in a latent and unobtrusive way, so as not to weaken the popular
interest. This leads to the ambiguity of which I have spoken. The new thought is often not
earnestly but ironically related to the old material, and the spiritual hero seems almost to
stand apart from the rude framework of the still highly sensational theatrical piece. This
has given rise to a rather favourite saying with the Germans, that Hamlet is a modern. Hamlet
seems to step forth from an antiquated time,--with its priestly bigotry, its duels for a province,
its heavy-headed revels, its barbarous code of revenge, and its ghostly visitations to enforce
it,--to meet and converse with a riper age. But this is because Hamlet belongs wholly and intimately
to the poet, while the other characters, though informed with new and original expression,
are left in close relation, to the old plot.

Such being the ambiguity resulting from this continued spiritualization of the play, the actor
would instinctively endeavour to remove it, and to bring the hero in closer relation with the
main action of the stage piece. Hamlet must not be too disengaged; he must not be too ironical.
A few omissions, a fit of misplaced fury, a too emphatic accent, a too effective attitude,
with what is called a bold grasp of character, and Shakespeare's latest and finest work on
the hero is obliterated.

Now, the great actors who have personated Hamlet have done much, and the thrilling treatment
of the ghost-story has done more, to stamp upon the minds of learned and unlearned alike the
impression that the great event of Hamlet's life is the command to kill his uncle. As he does
not do this, and as he is given to much meditation and much discussion, it is assumed that
he thinks and talks in order to avoid acting. And then the word "irresolution" leaps forth,
and all is explained. This curious assumption, that all the pains taken by Shakespeare on the
work and its hero has no other object but to illustrate this theme--a command to kill and a
delayed obedience--pervades the criticism even of those who consider the intellectual element
the great attraction of the play. And yet, when you ask what is the dramatic situation out
of which this speculative matter arises, the German and English critics alike reply in chorus,
"Irresolution." Each one has his particular shade of it, and finds something not quite satisfactory
in the interpretations of others. Goethe's finished portrait of Hamlet as the amiable and accomplished
young prince, too weak to support the burden of a great action, did not recommend itself either
to Schlegel or Coleridge, who take the mental rather than the moral disposition to task. Schlegel,
with some asperity, speaks of "a calculating consideration that cripples the power of action;"
and Coleridge, with more subtlety, applies Hamlet's antithesis of thought and resolution to
the elucidation of his own character, concluding that Hamlet "procrastinates from thought."
Gervinus, while following Schlegel as to "the bent of Hamlet's mind to reflect upon the nature
and consequences of his deed, and by this means to paralyze his active powers," adds to this
defect a deplorable conscientiousness, which unfits Hamlet for the great duty of revenge. And
Mr. Dowden, while most ably collating these various kinds and degrees of irresolution, concludes
that Hamlet is "disqualified for action by his excess of the reflective faculty." Mr. Swinburne
alone resolutely protests against this doctrine. He speaks of "the indomitable and ineradicable
fallacy of criticism which would find the key-note of Hamlet's character in the quality of
irresolution."[5] And he considers that Shakespeare purposely introduces the episode of the
expedition to England to exhibit "the instant and almost unscrupulous resolution of Hamlet's
character in time of practical need." I gladly welcome this instructive remark, which, although
Mr. Swinburne calls it "the voice of one crying in the wilderness," is more likely to gain
me a patient hearing than any arguments I can use. But before I propose my own reading, I will,
as I have given the genesis or natural history of this theory of irresolution, compare it with
the general features of Hamlet's mental condition throughout the play.

If Hamlet "procrastinates from thought," if "the burden of the action is too heavy for him
to bear," if "by a calculating consideration he exhausts all possible issues of the action,"
it should at least be continually present to his mind. We should look for the delineation of
a soul harassed and haunted by one idea; torn by the conflict between conscience and filial
obedience; or balancing advantage and peril in an agony of suspense and vacillation; forecasting
consequence and result to himself and others; and so absorbed in this terrible secret as to
exclude all other interests. We have two studies of such a state of irresolution, in Macbeth
and Brutus. Of Macbeth it may truly be said that he has an action upon his mind the burden
of which is too heavy for him to bear. It is constantly before him; he is shaken with it, possessed
by it, to such a degree that

                             "function
   Is smother'd in surmise; and nothing is
   But what is not."

Now "he will proceed no further in this business," and now "he is settled and bound up to it,"
and in one long perturbed soliloquy stands before us the very picture of that irresolution
which "procrastinates from thought."

But what is the general course and scope of Hamlet's utterance, whether to himself or others?
We find musings and broodings on the possibility of escape from so vile a world alternating
with cool and keen analysis, polished criticism, and petulant wit; we find a pervading ironical
bitterness, rising at times to fierce invective, and even to the frenzy of passion when his
mother is the theme, relapsing again to trance-like meditations on the depravity of the world,
the littleness of man and the nullity of appearance; and when his mind does revert to this
"great action," this "dread command," which is supposed to haunt it, and to keep it in a whirl
of doubt and irresolution, it is because it is forcibly recalled to it, because some incident
startles him to recollection, proves to him that he has forgotten it, and he turns upon himself
with surprise and indignation: Why is it this thing remains to do? Am I a coward! Do I lack
gall? Is it "bestial oblivion?" or is it

                           "some craven scruple
   Of thinking too precisely on the event?"

On this text, so often quoted in support of the orthodox "irresolution" theory, I will content
myself at present with the remark, thats surely no one before or after Hamlet ever accounted
for his non-performance of a duty by the double explanation that he had either entirely forgotten
it or had been thinking too much about it.

Looking then at the general features of Hamlet's talk, it is plain that to make this command
to revenge the clue to his mental condition, is to make him utter a great deal of desultory
talk without dramatic point or pertinence; for if, except when surprised by the actors' tears
or by the gallant bearing of the troops of Fortinbras, he wholly forgets it, what does he remember?
What is the secret motive of this prolonged criticism of the world which "charms all within
its magic circle?"

The true centre will be found, I think, by substituting the word "preoccupation" for the word
"irresolution." And the "preoccupation" is found by antedating the crisis of Hamlet's career
from the revelation of the ghost to the marriage of his mother, and the persistent mental and
moral condition thus induced. Start from this, as a fixed point, and a dramatic situation is
gained in which every stroke of satire, every curiosity of logic, every strain of melancholy;
is appropriate and pertinent to the action.

In order to measure the full effect of this strange event, we must bring before us the Hamlet
of the earlier time, before his father's death, and for this we have abundant material in the play.

II.

Hamlet was an enthusiast. His love for his father was not an ordinary filial affection, it
was a hero-worship. That his love for his mother was equally intense, is clearly discernible
in the inverted characters of his rage and grief. In her he reverenced wifehood and womanhood.
He sees the rose on

   "the fair forehead of an innocent love."

And of his mother we are told--

           "The queen his mother
   Lives almost by his looks."

But this enthusiasm was connected with a habit of thought that was rather critical than sentimental.
Hamlet had a shrewd judgment, a lively and caustic wit, an exacting standard, and a turn for
satire. He was fond of question and debate, an enemy to all illusion, impatient of dulness,[typo
for dullness?] and not indisposed to alarm and bewilder it; and he had brought with him from
Wittenberg a philosophy half stoical and half transcendental, with whose eccentricities he
would torment the wisdom of the Court. He looked upon the machinery of power as part of the
comedy of life, and would be more amused than impressed by the equipage of office, its chains
and titles, the frowns of authority, and the smiles of imaginary greatness. He therefore of
all men needed a personal centre in which faith and affection could unite to give seriousness
and dignity to life; and this he had found from his childhood in the sovereign virtues of the
King and Queen. So that his criticism in these earlier days was but the fastidiousness of love,
that disparages all other excellence in comparison with its own ideal; his philosophy was a
disallowance of all other reality; and his negations only defined and brightened his faith.
Doubt, question and speculation, mystery and anomaly, the illusions of sense, the instability
of natures, all that was irrational in life, with its certainties of logic and hazards of chance,
all that was unproven in religion, dubious in received opinion, obscure in the destiny of man,
were but glimpses of a larger unity, vistas of truth unexplored.

Hamlet's thinking is always marked by that quality of penetration into and through the thoughts
of others, that is called free-thinking. The discovery, as he moved in the spiritual world
of established ideas and settled doctrines, apparently immovable, that they were of the same
stuff as his own thoughts--were pliant and yielding, and could be readily unwoven by the logic
that wove them, would tempt him to move and displace, and build and construct, until he might
have a collection of opinions large enough to be termed a philosophy. But it would be gathered
rather in the joy of intellectual activity, realizing its own energy, and ravelling up to its
own form the woof of other minds, than with any practical bearing on life. All this was a work
in another sphere--

   "of no allowance to his bosom's truth."

The light of a sovereign manhood and womanhood was reflected on the world around him, and afar
on the world of thought---their greatness reconciled all the contradictions of life. And in
pure submission to their control all the various activities of his versatile nature, its irony
and its earnestness, its shrewdness and its fancy, its piety and its free-thinking, harmonized
like sweet bells not yet jangled or untuned. He lived at peace with all, in fellowship with
all; he could rally Polonius without malice, and mimic Osric without contempt.

It is plain that Hamlet looked forward to a life of activity under his father's guidance. He
was no dreamer--we hear of "the great love the general gender bear him," and the people are
not fond of dreamers. In truth, the Germans have had too much their own way with Hamlet, and
have read into him something of their own laboriousness and phlegm. But Hamlet was more of
a poet than a professor. He had the temperament of a man of genius--impatient, animated, eager,
swift to feel, to like or dislike, praise or resent--with a character of rapidity in all his
actions, and even in his meditation, of which he is conscious when he says, "as swift as meditation."
He did not live apart as a student, but in public as a prince--

   "the observed of all observers;"

he was of a free, open, unsuspicious temper--

                                  "remiss,
   Most generous and free from all contriving."

He was fond of all martial exercises and expert in the use of the sword. He was a soldier first,
a scholar afterwards; a soldier in his alacrity to fight

   "Until his eyelids would no longer wag;"

a soldier even to

   "The glass of fashion, and the mould of form;"

and, above all, a soldier in his sensibility on the point of honour, one who would think it well

   "Greatly to find quarrel in a straw,
   When honour is at stake."

And Fortinbras, type of the man of action, recognized in him a kindred spirit--

   "Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
   For he was likely, had he been put on,
   To have proved most royally;"

while Hamlet eyed Fortinbras with the envious longing of one who had missed his career.

Without a warning the blow fell. His father was suddenly struck down; and while he was indulging
a grief, poignant and profound indeed, but natural, wholesome, manly, his uncle usurped the
crown. This second blow would be acutely felt, but it would rather rouse than prostrate his
energies. There is no passion in Hamlet when there has been no love. And he had always held
his uncle in slight esteem--foreboded something from his smiling insincerity. He never mentions
him without an expression of contempt, hardly acknowledges him as king; he is a thing--of nothing--a
farcical monarch--"a peacock"--and, in this particular act, no dread usurper, but a "cut-purse
of the realm." Whether he designed to wait or was prepared to strike, his future was still
intact, his energy unimpaired. His mother remained to him, now doubly dear and doubly great,
and with her the tradition of the past. She was, as he gathered from her silence, like himself,
retired from the world, absorbed in grief; but he was assured of her constancy and truth. Even
the kind of distance between them in age and sex, in mind and character, was no barrier to
this sympathetic relation. She was there with the expectation that makes heroism possible;
she was there to watch, if not to further his enterprise, and to give it lustre with her praise.
We are often quite unconscious of the commanding influence exerted on our life by those who
are least in contact with it. To be cognizant of one steadfast and stainless soul is to have
encouragement in difficulty and support in pain. The mere knowledge of its existence is a light
within the mind, and a secret incentive to the best action. Though silent and apart, it is
the witness of what is great, and our life is always seeking to rise within its sphere; while,
by a secret transference--for souls are not retentive of their own goodness--our standards
of living and thinking are maintained at their highest level, like water fed by a distant spring.
All this and infinitely more than this was the Queen his mother to Hamlet. It is impossible,
therefore, to measure the effect upon him of her marriage with his uncle. The shock of it is
ever fresh throughout the play.

And this was not only after the revelation of the Ghost, but after the confirmation of its
truth by the test Hamlet had himself applied. Even then the first paroxysm has hardly subsided.
You see the whole being measured by it, the mind stretched to give it utterance, the world
called as a witness to its enormity:--

III.

But it is at an earlier stage of this impression, when the thought of this profanation of the
sacredness of life and the sanctity of love chills the life-blood of his heart, and then rushes
burning through it like the shame of a personal insult, that he first stands before us in the
palace of the King. In appearance nothing is changed. He sees the same crowd, the same obsequious
attitudes, the same decorous forms; the trumpets with their usual flourish announce the arrival
of the King and Queen; the Ministers of State precede them, and the Court ladies; the pretentious
gravity of Polonius' brow; the dreamy innocence of Ophelia. The sovereigns seat themselves,
the Queen looks smilingly around her as of old. All is easy, bright, and festive. All goes
on as if this horrible revolution were the most natural thing in the world. Oh, that he could
avoid the sight of it! Oh, that he could be quit of it all!

Although the nervous horror of his address to the Ghost is greater, there is no speech in which
Hamlet betrays so deep an agitation as in this. He struggles for utterance, repeats himself,
mingles oaths and axioms, confuses and then annihilates time in the breathless tumult of his
soul. "Why, she, even she. O Heaven!" What can he say? what is vile enough? "A beast

                         "that wants discourse of reason,
   Would have mourned longer--married with my uncle."

These themes are developed Act by Act, we can follow them to the graveyard scene, and to the
moment before death.

And it is not unnatural that Hamlet's grief should assume a comprehensive form. The Queen had
drawn the world in her train. Nobles and people, councillors and courtiers, the honoured statesman,
the artless maiden, had joined her, had connived, were her accomplices. They had, parted among
them, all the vices appropriate to her Court, her people. The world was betrayed to Hamlet
in all its meanness and littleness: and he looked at it to see if he could discover the secret
of his mother's treason, as Lear would anatomize the heart of Regan to account for her ingratitude.
In attacking it he is attacking her guilt, in its inferior forms and obscure disguises. It
is the nest of her depravity, and the small vices are but hers in the shell, and the whole
is a vast confederacy of evil. Here are no "superfluous activities," no desultory talk; Hamlet's
preoccupation is one throughout. He alternates between the desire to escape from so vile a
world, and the pleasure of exposing its vice and fraud. The one gives us soliloquies, the other
dialogues. Now he looks out at an obscure eternity from a time that was more obscure, and now
the tension of the mind relieves the tension of the heart. On the one side we have all passages
of life-weariness, whether as the issue of long meditation, or as the outcome of familiar talk;
and on the other we have the brilliant and discursive criticism of man and Nature continued
throughout the play. All this is so closely connected with the treason of his mother, that
we see the very attachment of the feeling to the thought.

This explains the particular bitterness with which he attacks the Ministers and parasites of
the Court. As soon as he sees them he crosses the current of their talk, commits them to an
argument, confuses them with the evolutions of a logic too rapid for their senses to follow,
and makes their bewilderment a sport. How small their world appears in the mirror of his ironical
mind! The state-craft, the love-making, the "absurd pomp," the "heavy-headed revels," the women
that "jig and amble and lisp," the nobles that are "spacious in the possession of dirt," the
sovereign that is a "king of shreds and patches;" as for their opinions, "do but blow; them
to their trials, and the bubbles are out;" as for their ideas of prosperity, it is to act as
"sponges and soak up the king's countenance, his rewards and authorities;" as for their standard
of worth, "let a beast be a lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's table."
It is a disgrace to live in such a world, and contemptible to share its pleasures and prizes.

But his quarrel with it does not end here. The flaw runs through the whole constitution of
things; there is no possible equation between the anomalies and dislocations on which he turns
the dry light of that sceptical philosophy which has usurped the place of faith. Thought is
good and action is good, but they will not work together. Our reason is our glory, but our
indiscretions serve us best--we must either be cowards or fools. We have a perception of infinite
goodness, just sufficient to make us conclude that we are "arrant knaves, all of us," and just
enough belief in immortality "to perplex our wills." There is nothing but disagreement and
disproportion--a constant missing of the mark, a stretching of the hand for that which is not.
How is it possible to take seriously such a life if you pause to think?

It is not only irrational but visionary. The evanescence and fluency of Nature would matter
little, but man himself, with his ingenuities of wit and triumphs of ambition, is whirled from
form to form in "a fine revolution if we had the trick to see it." This is a favourite idea,
it lends itself so easily to the contempt of the world--

   "Imperious Cæsar, dead, and turn'd to clay,
   Might stop a hole to keep the wind away,"

is only a variation of "a man may fish with the worm that has eat of a king, and eat of the
fish that has fed on the worm."

In this collision with the world, alone and unsupported, Hamlet's natural buoyancy returns.
It is the moment of isolation, but it is the moment also of intellectual freedom. It is desertion,
but it is also independence. Every incongruity feeds his fanciful and inventive humour. He
follows vanity and affectation with irony and mimicry, removes a mask with the point of his
dexterous wit, and exposes the pretence of virtue or conceit of knowledge with sarcastic glee,
while there is a savour of retribution in his chastisement of vice. The vivacity of this running
comment, critical and satirical, on the ways and works of men adds much to the charm of the
play, but it is a charm that properly belongs to the best comedy. And Shakespeare has marked
this disengagement of his hero from the sanguinary plot by reserving the exaltation of verse
to the expression of personal feeling, while the lithe and nimble movement of his prose follows
with its undulating rhythm every turn of Hamlet's wayward mind, in subtlety of argument or
caprice of fancy.

Such is the "preoccupation" of Hamlet, emotional and intellectual. I have purposely made it
seem a separate study, as thus alone could this fatal "thought-sickness," in which Heaven and
Earth seemed to partake, be treated with the requisite clearness and fulness.

We can see at once that no other claim to the command of his spirit is likely to succeed. His
mind is already haunted. No Ghost can be more spiritual than his own thoughts, or more spectral
than the world around him. No revelation of a particular crime can rival the revelation lately
made to him of sin in the most holy place--the seat of virtue itself and heavenly purity. He
may acknowledge the ties of filial obedience and the duty of revenge, but there is no place,
nor obligation to hold, no world to which it may be attached, no faith or interest strong enough
within him to give it vitality, no fruit of good result to be looked for without. The place
is occupied:

   "For where the greater malady is fixed
   The lesser scarce is felt."

When Hamlet says, "There is nothing good or bad, but thinking makes it so," he confesses himself
an idealist--that is, one to whom ideas are not images or opinions, but the avenues of life.
They garner up happiness and they store the harvest of pain; they make the "majestical roof
fretted with golden fire" and the "pestilential cloud." The basis on which Hamlet's happiness
had rested had been suddenly removed, and with the sanctity of the past the promise of the
future had disappeared; the sky and the earth. He could say to his mother:

   "Du hast sie zerstört
     Die schöne Welt;"

but the new world is built of the same materials--that is, absorbing ideas. The shadow descends
till it measures the former brightness; the revulsion is as great as the enthusiasm.

IV.

Why, then, does he accept the mission of the Ghost? To answer this fully we must accompany
him to the platform.

In this scene Hamlet exhibits in perfection all the elements of courage--coolness, determination,
daring. He is singularly free from excitement; and this is not because he is absorbed in his
own thoughts, for he easily falls into conversation, and treats the first subject that comes
to hand with his usual felicity and fulness, rising from the private instance to a public law,
and applying it to large and larger groups of facts till his father's spirit stands before
him. Thrilled and startled he pauses not, "harrowed with fear and wonder like Horatio on the
previous night, but at once addresses it, as he said he would, though hell itself should gape."
No more dignified rebuke ever shamed terror from the soul than Hamlet administers to his panic-stricken
friends, and when they would forcibly withhold him from following the Ghost, the steady determination
with which he draws his sword is marked by the play upon words:

   "By Heav'n, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me."

In the presence of his father the old life is rekindled within his filial awe and affection,
unquestioned obedience, daring resolve.

And this commandment had forbidden him to taint his mind against his mother.

But what is his first exclamation when he is released from physical horror, and his thoughts
regain the living world? It is

   "O! most pernicious woman!"

This singular phrase is one of Shakespeare's final touches, as does not appear in the quarto
of 1603; and it marks, therefore, his deliberate intention, and is of the highest significance.
He who will hereafter be so often amazed at his own forgetfulness has already forgotten.

When his friends reappear, Hamlet is in a half-ironical humourous and assuming an astonishing
superiority over ghost and mortal alike informs them--

   "It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you."

But when this honest ghost plays sepulchral tricks, Hamlet shows small respect to it, and at
last, in a tone of almost command, cries--

   "Rest! rest! perturbed spirit!"

Does Hamlet slight the command of the Ghost? By no means. He never repudiates it or even calls
it in question. There is no hesitation, cavil, or debate in the acceptance of it as a duty.
But the purpose cools. It cools even on the platform. What passes within him is hardly a process
of thought, otherwise some intimation of it would be given in his numerous self-communings.
But there is a process prior to thought in which the relations of things are felt before they
are defined, and a conclusion is reached, and a disposition decided, without the mediation
of the reason. There is a vague attraction this way or that, a blind forecast and correlation
of issues, and the whole being is so influenced that, while there is no register of result
in the memory, there is a direction of the will and a determination of conduct. From the shadow
of the future that passes thus before his spirit he shrinks averse. To scramble for a throne--to
lord it over such a crew--to be linked to them as by chains--to return to that polluted Court--to
be the centre of intrigues and hatreds--and for what? To leave the darker deeper evil untouched.
Some process such as this may account for the change from "sweeping to his revenge" to

   "The time is out of joint;--O cursed spite!
   That ever I was born to set it right!"

In the meantime, in the well-lit chambers of consciousness, no note is taken of this shadowy
logic. This may appear paradoxical: but the last of the changes from love to indifference,
from faith to doubt, is the avowal of change. When the ties of habit and tradition are inwardly
outgrown, we bend and intend with our whole being in a new direction without the purpose or
even the desire to move. So Hamlet silently evades the obligation he so readily undertakes,
and sinks back into that more powerful interest that almost at once regains possession of his
mind. Still, before he quits the scene of this ghastly disclosure, he resolves to counterfeit
madness--and this for two reasons: he will seem (to himself) to be conspiring, and he will
gain a license to speak his mind without offence. This is the only use to which he puts this
mask of madness, as Coleridge has remarked. But why should he instinctively seek to gain more
latitude of speech? Because since the marriage of his mother he had suffered from an enforced
silence with regard to the proceedings of the Court, as he distinctly tells us in the first
soliloquy--

   "But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue!"

From his first utterances after he had left the platform, we at once infer that the mission
of the Ghost had failed. There is nothing that Hamlet would sooner part with "than his life."
There is, therefore, no prospect before his mind, no awakening energy, no latent enterprise.
With what relief, on the contrary, does he turn from the real to the ideal world! How cordially
does he welcome the players, and how gracefully, so that we seem for the first time to make
acquaintance with his natural tone and manner. Here at least is man's world, whose reality
can never be undermined. He plies them with questions, indulges in literary criticism, and
asks for a recitation. Suddenly he sees tears in the actors' eyes. He hurries them away, and
when he is alone breaks out--

   "Oh, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!"

He is jealous of the players' tears. Here again is no debate, but simply surprise at his own
apathy. He tries to lash himself to fury but fails, and falls back on the practical test he
is about to apply to the guilt of the king which he must appear to doubt, or this pseudo-activity
would be too obviously superfluous.

In the interval between the instruction to the players and the play, Hamlet's mind, unless
absorbed by some strong preoccupation, would naturally turn to the issue of the plot; and he
would reveal, if he admitted us to the secret workings of his mind, if not resolution, at least
irresolution, something to mark the vacillation of which we hear so much. But we find that
the whole matter has dropped from his mind, and that he has drifted back to the theme of--

   "Oh! that this too too solid flesh would melt!"

It is now recast more in the tone of deliberate thought than of excited feeling: he asks not
which is best for him, but which is "nobler in the mind,"--an impersonal, a profoundly human
question, which so fascinates our attention that we forget its irrelevance to the matter in
hand or what we assume to be the matter in hand. It is as if he had never seen the Ghost. In
his profound preoccupation he speaks of the "bourne from which no traveller returns," and of
"evils that we know not of," although the Ghost had told him "of sulphurous and tormenting flames."

It is plain that the "traveller" that had returned was not present at all to his mental vision
nor his tale remembered. In his former meditation he had accepted the doctrine of the church;
here he interrogates the human spirit in its still place of judgment; and he gives its verdict
with a sigh of reluctance--

   "Thus conscience does make cowards of us all."

Considering that this and the succeeding lines occur at the end of a soliloquy on suicide,--that
there is not only the absence of any reference to the ghostly action, but positive proof that
the subject was not present to his thoughts, it is nothing less than astonishing that this
passage should be quoted as Hamlet's witness to his own "irresolution." He would willingly
take his own life; conscience forbids it; therefore conscience makes us cowards: and then with
a still further generalization he announces the opposition of thought and resolution, causing
the failure of

   "enterprises of great pith and moment."

Now the only enterprise on which lie was engaged--the testing of the king's conscience--was
in a fair way of success, and did, in fact, ultimately succeed.

The scene with Ophelia that immediately follows is the development of another theme in the
first soliloquy, "Frailty! thy name is woman." Ophelia is inseparably connected with the queen
in Hamlet's mind. She is a Court maiden, sheltered, guarded, cautioned, and, as we see in the
warnings of Polonius and Laertes, cautioned in a tone that is suggestive of evil. What scenes
she must have witnessed--the confusion on the death of the king, the exclusion of Hamlet from
the throne, the marriage of the queen to the usurper! Yet she takes it all quite sweetly and
subserviently. She is as docile to events as she is to parental advice. To such a one every
circumstance is a fate, and she bows to it, as she bows to her father: "Yes, my lord, I will
obey my lord." She denies Hamlet's access to her though he is in sorrow; though he has lost
all, she will "come in for an after loss." One would rather leave her blameless in the sweetness
of her maiden prime and the pathos of her end, but to place her, as some do, high on the list
of Shakespeare's peerless women fastens upon Hamlet unmerited reproach. There is a love that
includes friendship, as religion includes morality, and such was Portia's for Bassanio. There
is a love whose first instinctive movement is to share the burden of the loved one, and such
was Miranda's love for Ferdinand. And there is a love that reserves the light of its light
and the perfume of its sweetness for the shadowed heart and the sunless mind. How would Cordelia
have addressed this king and queen--how would she have aroused the energy of Hamlet and rehabilitated
his trust, with that voice, soft and low indeed, but firmer than the voice of Cato's daughter
claiming to know her husband's cause of grief! As Hamlet talks to Ophelia, you perceive that
the marriage of his mother is more present to him than the murder of his father. He discourses
on the frailty of woman and the corruption of the world; "Go to, it hath made me mad. We will
have no more marriages."

The play is acted. The king is "frighted with false fire," and Hamlet is left with the feeling
of a dramatic success and the proof of his uncle's guilt. He sings snatches of song. Horatio
falls in with his mood. "You might have rhymed," he says. The only effect of the confirmation
of the ghost's story, as at its first hearing, is a fresh blaze of indignation against his mother.

As he passes to the Queen's closet in this tense and dangerous mood, he sees the king on his
knees. His brow relaxes in a moment; he stops, looks curiously at him, and says, familiarly--

   "Now might I do it, pat, now he is praying."

He did not mean to do it, because he was on his way to his mother's closet, but some reason
must be found. The word "praying" suggests it. "This would be scanned;" and he scans it, and
decides to leave him for another day. As he enters the closet to speak the words "like daggers,"
his quick decisive gesture and shrill peremptory tones alarm the queen. She rises to call for
help; he seizes her roughly: "Come, come, and sit you down." Nothing can mark Hamlet's awful
resentment more than his persistence through two interruptions that would have unnerved the
bravest, and checked the most relentless spirit. As he looks at his mother there is that in
his countenance bids her cry aloud for assistance. There is a movement behind the arras. Hamlet
lunges at once. Is it the king? No; it is but Polonius. Had it been the king, it would not
have diverted him from his purpose. He is no more afraid of killing than he is afraid of death,
and is as hard to arrest in his reproof of his mother as in his talk with his father:

   "Leave wringing of your hands; peace, sit you down."

His mother confesses her guilt. Hamlet is not appeased. He vilifies her husband with increasing
vehemence; the Ghost rises as if to protect the queen. "Do not forget," he cries, although
the king's name was at that moment on Hamlet's lips in terms of bitterest contempt. But it
was understood between the two spirits that it was the queen's husband and not his father's
murderer that he was thus denouncing. After the disappearance of the ghost, he turns again
to his mother; and on leaving her almost reluctantly, without further punishment, asks pardon
of his own genius--"Forgive me this my virtue," more authoritative to Hamlet than a legion
of spirits.

This scene is the spiritual climax of the play, and from it the whole tragedy directly proceeds.
The death of Polonius leads on the one side to the madness of Ophelia, on the other to the
revenge of Laertes and the final catastrophe. Hamlet's apathy at the death of Polonius is of
the same character as his oblivion of the ghost's command, and has the same origin. For there
is no apathy like that of an over-mastering passion, whether it be love or jealousy, or a new
faith, or a terrible doubt. It draws away the life from other duties and interests, and leaves
them pale and semi-vital. Men thus possessed acknowledge the duties they evade, let slip occasion,
are "lapsed in time and passion," and are surprised at their own oblivion.

This happens again to Hamlet as he is leaving Denmark. His own inaction is flashed back upon
him by the sight of the gallant array of Fortinbras, and his first words--

   "How all occasions do inform against me,"

disclose that the duty of revenge has its obligations and sanctions, not in the inward but
the outward world; not in the genius of the man--secret, individual, detached--but in the outward
mind of inherited opinion and ancestral creed, that we share with others in unreflecting fellowship.
The world has charge of it, and reflects it back upon him new in the actor's tears, and now--

   "In this army of such mass and charge,
   Led by a delicate and tender prince."

This speech must be read, like a Spartan despatch, on the [Greek: skutalê] or counterpart of
Hamlet's personality. He begins, as after the player's recitation, with a confession, and ends
with an excuse. He is startled into an avowal, which he qualifies by a subtle after-thought--"What
is a man," he cries, who acts as I have acted, who allows

   "That capability and god-like reason,
   To fust in him unused?"

"A beast, no more." But as he looks at Fortinbras and his soldiers, another thought strikes
him. These men act because they do not pause to think. I must have been thinking, not too little,
but too much; and with that he turns short round upon his first confession, escapes from the
charge of "bestial oblivion," and takes refuge in an imaginary "thinking too precisely on the
event;" which indeed, as he remembers, had more than once prevented him taking his own life.
But he condemns himself without cause; he cannot now return to that earlier stage of unreasoning
activity in appointed paths, and the joy and grace of unconscious obedience.

When Hamlet returns from England, he takes Horatio apart to recount his adventures and unfold
the plot of the king; but before he utters a word of this his settled mood is revealed to us
in the graveyard scene. Hamlet, ever prone to belittle the world, is not loth to watch the
making of a grave. There is the limit and boundary of what can be done or suffered; there the
triumph is ended, and there the enmity is stayed. He advances step by step to look closely
at the ruins of mortality; to slight the great names of kings and follow heroes to the dust.
As he sees the skull tossed out of the grave, the king is already dead to him. "How the knave
jowls it to the ground, as if it were Cain's jawbone, that did the first murder. This might
be the pate of a politician, which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
might it not?" He is not satisfied till he takes the skull in his hand, and is sarcastic on
beauty and festive wit, and the base uses to which we may come; when, from the other side,
the procession of Ophelia advances. The grace and allurement of Ophelia had awakened in the
imaginative Hamlet a feeling stronger and warmer indeed, but of the same relation to his capacity
of loving as that of Romeo for Rosaline, and as easily lost in the glow or shadow of a deeper
passion. That it was without depth and sacredness is plain from his delighting to ridicule
and torment her father, and from his careless and equivocal jesting with her at the play. But
though not a deep experience, it was of a quality different from that of other life. And the
death of Ophelia had gathered into one the records of the hours of love; the first and the
last; the meetings and the partings; the gifts, and flowers, and snatches of song. On these
tender memories the hollow clamour of Laertes breaks with a discord so intolerable that Hamlet,
who had with his usual reserve received the news of her death with the cold exclamation, "What!
the fair Ophelia!" suddenly breaks into a fury and leaps into her grave.

       *       *       *       *       *

In this study of Hamlet in relation to the ghost-story, we have seen that the effect, both
of the first recital and of its subsequent confirmation, was to whet his mind against his mother;
and that the passages in which this is expressed are among the final touches of the master;
that the deed of revenge is only flashed upon him from without; and that, in the intervals
between such awakenings of memory, he relapses to the thought-sickness of the first soliloquy;
that on the only occasion when the bitterness of his sorrow leads him to meditate self-destruction,
there is no question of the ghost, the murder, or the king; that the only ungovernable bit
of fury is in the presence of his mother; and that from this scene the drama is developed,
and the final catastrophe ensues.

V.

Supposing this "preoccupation" proved, what is the particular value and significance of the
fact? Before we can answer this we must set the character of Hamlet in this new light clearly
before us.

Shakespeare gives to him the rare nobility of feeling with the keenness of personal pleasure
and pain, the presence or absence of moral beauty. He is one to whom public falsehood is private
affliction, to whom goodness in its purity, truth in its severity, honour in its brightness,
are the only goods worth a man's possessing, and the rest but a dream and the shadow of a dream.
Hamlet bears his private griefs with proud composure. We have no lamentation on the death of
his father, on the defection of Ophelia, on his exclusion from the throne. Among the images
of horror and distress that crowd upon his mind in his mother's closet there is one on which
he is silent then, and throughout the play, and that is her heartless desertion of his cause,
as natural successor to the crown. To make it entirely clear that we have here no type of morbid
weakness and excess, but the portrait of a representative man, we have only to look at the
careful way in which all the other characters are touched and modelled so as to allow and enhance
Hamlet's superiority, This is true even of Horatio. We have already remarked that in their
scenes with the ghost the manhood of Hamlet is of a higher strain and dignity. And not only
in resolution, but in that other manly virtue of self-reliance, his superiority is incontestable.
Horatio follows Hamlet at a distance as Lucilius follows Brutus, content if from time to time
he may stand at his side. Whatever is Hamlet's mood he reflects it, for to him Hamlet is always
great. Horatio never questions, presumes not to give advice, echoes the scorn or laughter of
his friend, is equally contemptuous of the king, and, as he never urges to action, is, if his
friend is supposed to procrastinate, accomplice in his delay. Hamlet detaches himself from
the world and follows his own bent; he will admit no guidance, and be subject to no dictation.
He is not the man to be hag-ridden like Macbeth, or humoured into remorseful deeds like Brutus.
The strong dramatic feature of his character, the secret of his attraction on the stage, is
his pure and independent personality. Who has a word of solace from him, but when does he claim
it? Who leaves any mark or dint of intellectual impact on that firm and self-determined mind?
And if he is superior to Horatio, how much more to Laertes? Had Shakespeare wished to exalt
the quality of resolution at Hamlet's expense, he would not have chosen so ignoble a representative
of it as this man. A true son of Polonius, a prater of moral maxims, while he is all for Paris
and its pleasures; violent, but weak; who, when he is told of the tragic and untimely death
of his sister, can find nothing better to say than--

   "Too much of water, hast thou, dear Ophelia?"

who, like Aufidius, has the outward habit and encounter of honour, but is a facile tool of
treacherous murder in the hands of the king. Compare the conduct of the two when they are brought
into collision, and the final impression they leave. The readiness with which Hamlet undertakes
to fence for his uncle's wager is one of the most surprising strokes in the play. What! with
the foil in his hand, no plot, no project, not even a word, not a look between him and Horatio
that the occasion might be improved! What absolute freedom from the malice which in another
mind is preparing his death. The treachery of Laertes is the more odious in this, that the
success of his plot depends on the generous confidence of his victim. Polonius is handled in
the same way with special reference to Hamlet. His thinking is marked by slowness and insincerity,
and when he comes in contact with the rapid current of Hamlet's mind he is benumbed; he can
only mutter, "If this is madness, there is method in it." What little portable wisdom was given
to him in the first Act is soon withdrawn--he stammers in his deceit, and the old indirectness
having no material of thought to work upon becomes a circumlocution of truisms. As the play
proceeds he is made, as if with a second intention, more and more the antithesis, as he is
the antipathy, of the prince. It is the careful portrait of what Hamlet would hate--a remnant
of senile craft in the method with folly in the matter--a shy look in the dull and glazing
eye, that insults the honesty of Hamlet as much as the shrivelled meaning with its pompous
phrase insults his intelligence. So with the other characters; they are all made to justify
his demeanour towards them. The queen is heard to confess her guilt, Ophelia is seen to act
as a decoy; his college friends attempt his death.

In as far then as Hamlet is right in his verdicts, blameless in his aims, lofty in his ideal,
and just in his resentment, he is a representative man; and we have not the study of a special
affliction, but the fundamental drama of the soul and the world. This, whatever we may call
it, was the work at which Shakespeare laboured so long, and for which he withdrew Hamlet from
time to time for special study, every fresh touch telling in this direction.

VI.

How far is such an interpretation consonant with the genius and method of Shakespeare? Certainly
I should hardly have found courage to add another to the many studies of Hamlet had it not
been for the hope of bringing out a characteristic of our great national poet that is rather
unobtrusive than obscure. I mean a singular unworldliness of thought and feeling; a cherished
idealism; an inborn magnanimity. Not the unworldliness of the study and the cloister, or the
other-worldliness of such poets as Dante and Milton, but the unworldliness of a man of the
world, the idealism that is closely allied with humour. And it is in this union and not elsewhere
that the "breadth" of Shakespeare, of which we hear so much, is found. This unworldliness is
elusive, ubiquitous, full of disguise. Now it is militant, and now observant; now it is fastidious
in its scorn, and now it is piercing in its dissection; now it is satire, and now it is melancholy.
He gives the most knightly chivalry of friendship to a merchant, and the most exquisite fidelity
of service to a fool, and makes the ingrained worldliness of Cleopatra die before her love.
He not only scatters through his pages rebukes of the arrogance of power and the more pitiable
pride of wealth, but makes his kings deride their own ceremonies and mock their own state.
Who has not observed the easy and effortless way in which his heroes and heroines move from
one station to the other, from authority to service like Kent, from obscurity to splendour
like Perdita, or to the greenwood from the palace like Rosalind. The change affects their happiness
no more than the change of their position in the sky affects the brightness of the stars. It
is all so truthful and clear that we grow more simple as we read. Lear utters but one cry of
joy, and that is when he is entering a prison with Cordelia:

                        "Come, let's away to prison!
   We two alone will sing like birds in a cage;"

while the Queen of France has just said:

   "For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down,
   Myself could else outfrown false fortune's frown."

In these two lines the magnanimity of Shakespeare is pure, unveiled, as he gives us the last
words of his favourite heroine: we must read them backwards and forwards to catch the portrait
they enclose. We see the unconscious elevation of Cordelia's mind, not so much superior as
invulnerable to mortal ills; we see this dignity and lovely pride cast down by pity and love,
and then in answer to Lear's troubled and anxious look we hear in measured and steadfast tones
the reassurance of perfect peace.

Remark too Shakespeare's habit of looking upon the world as a masque or pageant, not to be
treated with too much respectful anxiety as if it were as real as ourselves. He who can give
so perfectly the texture of common life, the solidities of common sense, likes to wave his
wand over the domain of sturdy prose and incontrovertible custom, and to show how plastic it
is, and how easily pierced, and how readily transformed. He has a malicious pleasure in confusing
the boundaries of nature and fancy, and mocking the purblind understanding. In the "Midsummer
Night's Dream" we have an ambiguous and bewildering light, with the horizon always shifting,
and the boundaries of fact and fable confused with an inseparable mingling of forms; both outwardly,
as when Theseus enters the forest on the skirts of the fairy crew; and inwardly in the memories
of the lovers. And we are expressly told after the enchantment of the "Tempest" that this summary
dealing with the solid world was not merely by way of entertainment but was a presentation
of truth. And Macbeth, after grasping all that life could offer of tangible reward or palpable
power, pronounces it

   "such stuff as dreams are made of."

No doubt something will be said on the other side, of Shakespeare's broad and indulgent humanity,
and of his toleration even of vice itself when it is convivial and amusing. It should be remembered,
however, that his comedies while more realistic are not so real as his tragedies. They are,
as he himself insists, entertainments; to which jovial sensuality, witty falsehood, and even
hypocrisy when it is not morose are admitted, as diverting in their very aberration from the
mean rule of life. So that a touch of rascality is a genuine element in comedy, as a touch
of danger in sport, and the provocation of the moral sense is part of the fun. But they are
all under guard. The moment they pass a certain boundary and break into reality, the moment
that intemperance leads to disorder, and vice to suffering, as in real life, then suddenly
Harry turns upon Falstaff, or Olivia on Sir Toby, and vice is called by its right name.

And as life awakens and reality enters, either the grace or the sentiment or the passion of
unworldliness is more and more distinctly present. And in the tragedies even the pleasant vices
are seen as part of a world-wide corruption that wrongs, debases, and betrays. Shakespeare
has painted every phase of antagonism to the world, from the pensive aloofness of Antonio to
the impassioned misanthropy of Timon. Every excited feeling emits light into the dark places
of the earth, and every suffering is a revelation of more than its own injury. It is as if
the soul, fully aroused, became aware by its own light of the oppression and injustice abroad
upon the earth.

But there is a more vague and general disaffection to the world than is the outcome of any
particular experience. It may be called a spiritual discontent which few have felt as a passion,
but many have known as a mood: when that average goodness of human nature which we have found
so companionable, and to which we have so pleasantly adapted ourselves, becomes "very tolerable
and not to be endured;" when the world seems to be made of our vices, and our virtues seem
to be looking on, or if they enter into the fray are too tame and conventional for the selfish
fire and unscrupulous industry of their rivals; and when to our excited sensibility there is
a taint in the moral atmosphere, and we long to escape if only to breathe more freely.

We find, then, scattered through the dramas of Shakespeare a disaffection to the world as deep-grained
as it is comprehensive; and we find the various elements of it--the contempt of fortune, the
ideal virtue, the disinterested passion, the mysticism, the fellowship with the oppressed,
the distaste of the world's enjoyment and the weariness of its burden--concentrated in Hamlet
for full and exhaustive study; thus presenting what I have called the interior or fundamental
drama of the soul and the world.

But the tragedy of "Hamlet" includes more than this. It is not merely the doom of suffering
on a soul above a certain strain, still less is it the accidental death of a sluggard in revenge;
it is the implication of a noble mind in the intrigues and malignities of a world it has renounced.
In vain Hamlet contracts his ambition till it is bounded by a nutshell; he is ordered to strike
for a throne. No abnegation clears him from entanglement. The world permits not his escape,
but drags him back with those crooked hands of which Dante speaks, which pierce while they
hold. This is the tragedy in all its fulness, the involution of the inward and outward drama
to the immense advantage of both. For while the spiritual agony of Hamlet gives an incomparable
dignity to the ghost-story, yet by the very interruptions and checkings and crossings of it
through the accidents and oppositions of the plot, its physiognomy is more distinctly and delicately
revealed. Instead of the majestic but monotonous declamation of Timon, we have every variety
of that ironical humour (indicating some yet unconquered province of the soul) that guards
and embalms the purer strength of feeling, keeps it airy and spiritual, and frees it from moan
and heaviness. Here we have no insistance on suffering, no literary heart-breaks, no dilettante
pessimism; but those indefinable harmonies of freedom and law, of the ascendency of the soul
and the sovereignty of fate, of Nature and the spaces of the mind, that in the works of the
great masters represent, if they do not explain, the mystery of life.

The religion of Hamlet is that faith in God which survives after the extinction of the faith
in man. Losing the light of human worth and dignity through which, alone the soul can reach
to the idea of what is truly divine, and with it the link between earth and heaven, Hamlet's
religion is reduced to its elements again; to the vague and fragmentary hints of Nature, and
instincts of the spirit; to intimations of limitless power, of mysterious destiny, of a "something
after death," of a "divinity that shapes our ends;" and with these, gleams of a transcendent
religion of humanity, for devotion to which he was suffering; and on the other side, binding
him to the stage-plot, relics of childish superstition, half-beliefs, inherited opinions, "our
circumstance and course of thought," which he adopted when he pleased,--as, for instance, when
he feared lest he should dismiss the murderer to heaven, or half-believed that his blameless
father was tormented in sulphurous flames for having endured a horrible death. But however
obscure and indefinite the religion of Hamlet may be, and partly because it is so, and hence
of universal experience, it adds reach and depth to his struggle with the world. His soul flies
out of bounds and away in airy liberty on these excursions to the vast unknown, and escapes
at last victorious with the light through the darkness of conscious immortality, and the lamp
in his hand of "the readiness is all." There is always a certain vacuity in the positive or
realistic treatment of passion, in which it is confined to the area of mortality, and after
a sultry strife delivered over to the mercy of its enemies. But the world cannot so beset and
beleaguer the soul as to block up the access and passage of invisible allies, or intercept
the communications of infinite strength and infinite charity, or follow to its distant haunts
and inaccessible refuges the migrations of thought--

   "In the hoar deep to colonize."

   FRANKLIN LEIFCHILD.

[4] "Shakspere: His Mind and Art," p. 96.

[5] "A Study of Shakespeare," p. 166.

PANISLAMISM AND THE CALIPHATE.[6]

I use the word "Panislamism," simply because it is one of the political catchwords of the day.
The prefix Pan is supposed to have some great and terrible significance. It is not long since
Europe exerted all her power to save Islam from the jaws of Panslavism, but now that a Pan
has been added to Islam, it has become in its turn the bugbear of Europe. It is even supposed
that England was fighting with this new monster, when she put down the revolution in Egypt.
England could never have so far forgotten her liberality as to take up arms against Islam,
but Panislam must be crushed by a new crusade. Such is the wondrous power of a prefix. So far
as I can understand the mysterious force of this word, it is designed to express the idea that
the scattered fragments of the Mohammedan world have all rallied around the Caliph to join
in a new attack upon Christendom, or that they are about to do so. There is just enough of
truth in this idea to give it currency, and to make it desirable that the whole truth should
be known. Most of the mistakes of Europe in dealing with the Ottoman empire, during the present
century, have come from a misapprehension of the forces of Islam, and the position, and influence
of the Sultan of Turkey. There is danger now of such a misapprehension as may lead to the most
unfortunate complications.

The first essential point, which must always be kept in mind by those who would understand
the movements of the Mohammedan world, is the exact relation of the Ottoman Sultans to the
Caliphate. The word Caliph means the vicar or the successor of the Prophet. The origin and
history of the Caliphate is well known, but it may be well to give a brief résumé of it here.
During the life of the Prophet it was his custom to name a Caliph to act for him when he was
absent from Medina. During his last illness he named his father-in-law, Abou-Bekir, and after
his death this appointment was confirmed by election. Omar, Osman, and Ali were successively
chosen to this office, and these four are recognized by all orthodox Mohammedans as perfect
Caliphs. The Persians and other Shiites recognize only Ali. It is said that the Prophet predicted
that the true Caliphate would continue only thirty years. His words are quoted: "The Caliphate
after me will be for thirty years. After this there will be only powers established by force,
usurpation, and tyranny." The death of Ali and the usurpation of Mouawiye came just thirty
years after the death of the Prophet, and this was the end of the true and perfect Caliphate.
The sixty-eight imperfect Caliphs who followed were all of the family of the Prophet, although
of different branches, but they fulfilled the demand of the sacred law, that the Caliph must
be of the family of Koreish, who was a direct descendant from Abraham. Mouawiye and the Ommiades,
fourteen in all, were of the same branch as Osman, the third Caliph. The Abassides of Kufa,
Bagdad, and Cairo, fifty-four in all, descended from Abas, the great-uncle of the Prophet.
There were many others who at different times usurped the name of Caliph, but these seventy-two
are all who are recognized as universal Caliphs. Mohammed XII., the last of these died in obscurity
in Egypt in 1538. The power of the Caliphs gradually decayed, until for hundreds of years it
was little more than nominal, and exclusively religious.

The claim of the Ottoman Sultans to the Caliphate dates back to the time of Sultan Selim I.
This Sultan conquered Egypt and over-threw the dynasty of the Mamelukes. He found at Cairo
the Caliph Mohammed XII., and brought him as a prisoner to Constantinople. He was kept at the
fortress of the Seven Towers for several years, and then sent back to Egypt with a small pension.
While Selim was in Cairo, the Shereeff of Mecca presented to him the keys of the holy cities,
and accepted him as their protector. In 1517 Mohammed XII. also made over to him all his right
and title to the Caliphate. This involuntary cession, and the voluntary homage of the Shereeff
of Mecca are the only titles possessed by the Ottoman Sultans to the Caliphate, which, according
to the word of the Prophet himself, must always remain in his own family. If the Ommiades and
the Abassides were imperfect Caliphs, it is plain that the Ottoman Sultans must be doubly imperfect.
It was easy, however, for an all-powerful Sultan to obtain an opinion from the Ulema that his
claim was well-founded; and it has been very generally recognized by orthodox Mohammedans,
in spite of its essential weakness. When the time comes, however, that the Ottoman Sultans
are no longer powerful, it will be still more easy to obtain an opinion that the Shereeff of
Mecca, who is of the family of the Prophet, is the true Caliph.

The Ottoman Sultans have also assumed the other and more generally used title of Imam-ul-Mussilmin,
which may be roughly translated Grand Pontiff of all the Moslems, although, strictly speaking,
the functions of an Imam are not priestly. This title is based upon an article of the Mohammedan
faith which says--"The Mussulmans ought to be governed by an Imam, who has the right and authority
to secure obedience to the law, to defend the frontiers, to raise armies, to collect tithes,
to put down rebels, to celebrate public prayers on Fridays, and at Beiram," &c. This article
of faith is based upon the words of the Prophet--"He who dies without recognizing the authority
of the Imam of his time, is judged to have died in ignorance and infidelity."

The law goes on to say--"All Moslems ought to be governed by one Imam. His authority is absolute,
and embraces everything. All are bound to submit to him. No country can render submission to
any other."

Under this law the Ottoman Sultans claim absolute and unquestioning obedience from all Moslems
throughout the world; but their right to this title rests upon the same foundation as that
upon which is based the title of Caliph. The Prophet himself said, and the accepted law repeats,
that the Imam-ul-Mussilmin must be of the family of Koreish. The Ottoman Sultans belong not
only to a different family, but to a different race.

With this evident weakness in their title to the Caliphate, and the accompanying rank of universal
Imam, it is a question of interest on what grounds the doctors of Mohammedan law have justified
their claims, and how far these have been recognized.

In addition to the rights said to have been conferred by the Caliph Mohammed XII. and by the
Shereef of Mecca upon Sultan Selim I., and by him transmitted to his posterity, the Mohammedan
doctors make use of a very different argument. They say--

     "The rights of the house of Othman are based upon its power and
     success, for one of the most ancient canonical books declares that
     the authority of a prince who has usurped the Caliphate by force
     and violence, ought not the less to be considered legitimate,
     because, since the end of the perfect Caliphate, the sovereign
     power is held to reside in the person of him who is the strongest,
     who is the actual ruler, and whose right to command rests upon the
     power of his armies."

This statement presents the real basis of the claims of the Sultans to the Caliphate. It is
the right of the strongest. Any man who disputes it, does so at his peril; and, since 1517,
the Ottoman Sultans have been able to command the submission of the Mohammedan world. Their
title has not been seriously disputed.

But the title has this weak point in it. It is good only so long as the Sultan is strong enough
to maintain it. It has not destroyed the rights of the family of Koreish. It only holds them
in abeyance, until some one of that family is strong enough to put an end to the Turkish usurpation.
The power of the Sultan does not depend upon the title, but the title depends upon his power.
This is a point the political importance of which should never be overlooked.

We come now to our second question. How far is the claim of the Ottoman Sultans to the Caliphate
now recognized in the Mohammedan world? Except with the Shiites, who have never acknowledged
it, there is no open rebellion against it. But the decay of the Ottoman Empire during the last
hundred years has been obvious to all the world. Not only has it been gradually dismembered,
not only have many of its Mohammedan subjects been brought under the dominion of Christian
Powers, and many of its Christian subjects set free, not only have its African possessions
become practically independent, except Tripoli, but the house of Othman exists to-day, only
because Christian Europe interfered to defend it against its own Mohammedan subjects. The house
of Mohammed Ali would otherwise have taken its place. Again and again have the Sultans shown
their inability to defend the frontiers of Islam. Since the advent of the present Sultan, the
process of dismemberment has gone on more rapidly than ever.

The influence of these facts upon the Mohammedan world has been very marked. I cannot speak
from personal knowledge of the people of India and Central Asia, but from the best information
that I can obtain, I conclude that while they have lost none of their interest in Islam, while
they are still interested in the fate of their Turkish brethren, they would not lift a finger
to maintain the right of the Sultan to the Caliphate against any claimant of the family of
the Prophet. The feeling of the Arabic-speaking Mohammedans is well known. Islam is an Arab
religion; the Prophet was an Arab; the Caliph should be an Arab. The Ottoman Sultans are barbarian
usurpers, who have taken and hold the Caliphate by force. The Arabs have been ready for open
revolt for years, and have only waited for a leader of the house of the Prophet. Their natural
leader would be the Shereef of Mecca; and it is understood that the Shereef who has just been
deposed by the Sultan, as well as his predecessor who was mysteriously assassinated, was on
the point of declaring himself Caliph. The new Shereef is a young man of the same family.

So far as the Turkish, Circassian, and Slavic Mohammedans are concerned, their interests are
bound up with those of the Sultan. They do not distinguish between the Caliphate and the Sultanat.
Their ruler is the Imam-ul-Mussilmin, their law is the Sheraat, their country is the Dar-Islam;
and when they are fighting for their Sultan they are fighting for their faith. They know nothing
of any other possible Caliph. But if a new Caliph should appear at Mecca, and declare the Sultan
a usurper and a Kaffir, it is very doubtful whether they would stand by the Sultan. They would
not know what to do.

Another element enters just now into the question of the Caliphate, of which so much has been
written of late that it is only necessary to mention it here. The Mohammedan world is looking
for the coming of the Mehdy. The time appointed by many traditions for his appearance has already
come, the year of the Hedjira 1300. Other traditions, however, fix no definite time--they only
say "towards the end of the world," and many impostors have already appeared at different times
and places claiming to be the Mehdy. According to Shiite tradition, it is the twelfth Imam
of the race of Ali who is to appear. At the age of twelve he was lost in a cave, where he still
lives, awaiting his time. According to the Sunnis, the Mehdy is to come from Heaven with 360
celestial spirits, to purify Islam and convert the world. He will be a perfect Caliph, and
will rule over all nations.

It is impossible for any Christian to speak with absolute certainty of the real feeling of
Mohammedans; but it is evident that this expected Mehdy is talked of by Mohammedans everywhere,
and that there is more or less faith in his speedy appearance. No one who anticipates his coming,
can have any interest in the claims of the Sultan to be the Caliph. Should any one appear to
fulfil the demands of the tradition, and meet with success in rousing any part of the Mohammedan
world, the excitement would become intense, especially in Africa and Arabia. The claims of
the Sultan would be repudiated at once. Still I think it probable that too much has been made
of this Mehdy in Europe. I do not think that the Pachas of Constantinople have any more faith
in his coming than Mr. Herbert Spencer has in the second coming of Christ. They only fear that
some impostor may take advantage of the tradition to create division in the empire. This is
the real danger.

It has been evident for many years that the Sultans have felt that their influence in the Mohammedan
world was declining. They have seen that beyond their own dominions the Caliph has no real
authority; that whatever influence they have depends upon the strength of their own empire.
Abd-ul-Medjid and Abd-ul-Aziz seem to have had a pretty clear conception of their weakness,
and of the necessity of restoring the vitality of the Ottoman empire, by the introduction of
radical reforms. There is no reason to suppose that the Hatt-i-houmayoun and the other innumerable
Hatts issued by these Sultans, were all intended simply to blind the eyes of Europe. None knew
better than they that the empire must be reformed or lost. But they were Caliphs as well as
Sultans, and what they would do as Sultans they could not do as Caliphs. The very nature of
their claims to the Caliphate made them more timid. They could not execute the reforms which
they promised, without encountering the opposition of the whole body of the Ulema, the most
powerful and the best organized force in the empire. If they could have saved their empire
by resigning the Caliphate, they might possibly have been willing to do it; but they were made
to believe that in surrendering the Caliphate they would lose the support of the only part
of the nation upon which they could fully depend. So they hesitated, promising much and doing
little, raising hopes on one side which could never be forgotten, and raising fears on the
other which they could not allay; seeing clearly the need of reform, but seeing no way in which
to accomplish it. They could decide upon nothing, and drifted on until Abd-ul-Aziz was deposed
and assassinated by his own ministers, and the empire was on the verge of ruin.

The next Sultan was overwhelmed by the burdens which fell upon him, and in a few months was
deposed as a lunatic. Sultan Hamid came to the throne under these trying circumstances, and
it seemed for a time that he might be the last of the Sultans. He was but little known, as
he had been forced to live in retirement, and it was supposed that he would follow meekly in
the steps of his predecessors; but it very soon became evident to those about him that he had
a mind and a will of his own--more than this, that he had a policy which he was determined
to carry out. A Sultan with a fixed policy was a new thing, and to this day Europe is somewhat
sceptical about it; but it very soon became apparent to close observers at Constantinople.
Sultan Hamid was determined to be first of all the Caliph, the Imam-ul-Mussilmin, and to sacrifice
all other interests to this. His education had been exclusively religious, and in his retirement
he had lived a serious life, associating much with the Ulema, who, no doubt, pointed out to
him the vacillating policy of his predecessors, and the danger that there was that the Caliphate
and the empire would be lost together. He determined to strengthen his empire by restoring
the influence of the Caliphate, and rallying the Mohammedan world once more around the throne
of Othman. Judged from a European standpoint, this policy is at once reactionary and suicidal.
It ignores the fact that the Ottoman empire is dependent for its existence upon the good-will
of Europe; that it has measured its strength with a single Christian Power, and been utterly
crushed in a year. It ignores the principle that a government can never be strong abroad which
is weak at home. It ignores the history of the last hundred years. It may be doubted whether
it is a policy which can be justified from the standpoint of Islam. Turkey is the last surviving
Mohammedan Power of any importance. Its influence depends upon its strength, and its strength
upon the prosperity of its people, and this upon a wise and enlightened administration of the
government. It would seem that the best thing the Sultan could have done for Islam, would have
been not to excite the fears of Europe by the phantom of a Panislamic league, but to have devoted
all his energies to the reformation of his government.

But Sultan Hamid chose the path of Faith rather than of Reason, and, however we may think the
choice unwise, we are bound to treat it with respect. It is easy to say that it was a mere
question of policy, and very bad policy; it certainly was, but I think we have good reason
to believe that the Sultan was actuated by religious rather than political motives, that he
is a sincere and honest Moslem, and feels that it is better to trust in God than in the Giaour.
I have a sincere respect and no little admiration for Sultan Hamid. Had he been less a Caliph
and more a Sultan, with his courage, industry, and pertinacity, he might have done for Turkey
what he has failed to do for Islam. He might have revived and consolidated the empire. It is
possible that he may do it yet, and should he attempt it he will have the sympathy of the world.

But thus far, having transferred the seat of government from the Porte to the Palace, having
secured a declaration from the Ulema that his will is the highest law, and that as Caliph he
needs no advice, he has sought, first of all, to make his influence felt in every part of the
Mohammedan world, to revive the spirit of Islam, and to unite it in opposition to all European
and Christian influences. Utterly unable to resist Europe by force of arms, he has sought to
outwit her by diplomacy and finesse. I know of nothing more remarkable in the history of Turkey
than the skill with which he made a tool of Sir Henry Layard. Sir Henry could not be bought;
but he could be flattered and blinded by such attentions as no Ottoman Sultan ever bestowed
upon any Ambassador before; and to accomplish this object, the Sultan did not hesitate to ignore
all Mohammedan ideas of propriety. His demonstrations of friendship for Germany is another
illustration of his diplomatic skill. But while ready to yield any point of etiquette to accomplish
his ends, he has resisted to the last every attempt to induce him to do anything to repress
or punish any development of Moslem fanaticism. All Europe combined could not force him to
punish the murderer of Colonel Coumaroff, the secretary of the Russian Embassy, who was shot
down in the street like a dog by a servant of the Palace; nor, so far as I know, has he ever
suffered a Moslem to be punished for murdering a Christian.

His agents have done their best to rouse the Mohammedans of India and Central Asia. He has
armed the tribes of Northern Africa against France, and encouraged them to resist to the end.
He has given new life to Mohammedan fanaticism in Turkey. The change from the days of Abd-ul-Aziz
is very marked. The counsellors of the Sultan are no longer the Ministers, but the astrologers,
eunuchs, and holy men of the Palace. No Mussulman could now change his faith in Constantinople
without losing his life. Firmans can no longer be obtained for Christian churches, and it is
extremely difficult to obtain permission to print a Christian book, even in a Christian language.
The greatest care is taken to seize books of every description in the Custom House. It is not
long since the Life of Mr. Gladstone was seized as a forbidden book. It is a curious fact in
this connection that the fanaticism of the Government is far in advance of the fanaticism of
the people. There is no fear of the people, except as they are encouraged and pushed forward
by those in authority. If left to themselves, Turks and Christians would have no difficulty
in living together amicably.

The relation of the Sultan to the rebellion in Egypt is not perfectly clear, and probably never
will be. In one sense he was no doubt the cause of it. It was a direct result of the agitation
which his policy had roused. But it was not intended by Arabi to strengthen the power of a
Turkish Caliph. It was originally anti-Turkish, and looked to the revival of the Arab Caliphate,
as well as to the personal advantage of Arabi himself. The Sultan could not oppose it without
exciting the enmity of those whom he most wished to conciliate, so he sought to control it
and turn it to his own advantage. He gave Arabi all possible aid and support. There is no reason
to suppose that Arabi and his friends were deceived by this; but it was for their interest
to avoid a conflict with the Sultan as long as possible, and to get what aid from him they
could. But for the intervention of England, Arabi would no doubt have won the game against
the Turk. He might even have caused the downfall of the Sultan; for it is a well-known fact
that so great was the enthusiasm of the Moslems in Syria and Arabia for Arabi, that they were
with difficulty restrained by the Turkish authorities from breaking out into open rebellion.
This spirit had been fostered by the Sultan; but it naturally turned, not to the Turkish Caliph,
but to the successful Arab adventurer. Even in Asia Minor and Constantinople the enthusiasm
for Arabi was universal, and had he been allowed to triumph unmolested, it seems probable the
Sultan would have been forced either to unite with him in a crusade against Christendom, or
to send an army to put him down. Either of these courses would have been fatal; for no Moslem
army would have fought against Arabi under such circumstances, and as against Europe the Sultan
could have accomplished nothing.

It is no doubt perfectly legitimate for a Caliph, especially for one whose title depends upon
the strength of his sword, to stir up the enthusiasm of his people and attract their attention
to himself as their leader. He cannot be blamed for improving every occasion to defend their
rights and interfere in their behalf. If he is strong enough to do so, it is no doubt in full
accord with the example and teaching of the Prophet that he should lead them against the infidels.
It is not strange that a man of faith should be so dazzled by the possibility of such a crusade
as to forget his own weakness. As he sits in his palace to-night,[7] and hears the roar of
the guns announcing the great festival of Courban Beiram, and thinks that more than two hundred
millions of the faithful are uniting with him in the sacrifice, and confessing their faith
in the Prophet of whom he claims to be the successor and representative, it will be strange
if he does not dream of what might be if he could but rally them round his throne; strange
if he does not catch something of the inspiration of the Prophet himself, who, with God on
his side, dared alone to face all Mecca, and with a few half-naked Arabs to brave the world.
There is nothing in the Palace unfavourable to such a dream as this, and there will be nothing
in the pomp and ceremony of the homage to be paid to him to-morrow morning to recall him from
it. What a contrast it will be to come back from such a dream of universal dominion, and the
triumph of the true faith, to the discussion of the sixty-first Article of the Treaty of Berlin
and the rights of the Armenians! It is perfectly legitimate for a Caliph to have such dreams,
and perfectly natural for him to prefer to try to realize them, rather than to give his attention
to the reform of his empire; but without blaming the Caliph we may well doubt whether it is
altogether wise for the Sultan of Turkey to indulge in such dreams.

I believe that it would be better not only for Turkey but for Islam also, if the Sultan would
give up his doubtful title to the Caliphate, and pass it over to the descendant of the Prophet
who is Shereef of Mecca. As for Turkey, this is the only hope of the empire; and the experience
of the Pope of Rome has made it clear that the loss of temporal power tends rather to strengthen
than to weaken a great religious organization. There is no inclination in any part of the world
to persecute Mohammedans, or interfere in any way with their faith. Only a very small minority
of them are under the government of the Sultan, and those who are not enjoy as much religious
liberty as those who are. This is not from fear of the Sultan, but it is in accord with the
spirit of the age, and the manifest interest of other Governments. As a Caliph cannot by any
possibility restore the strength of the Ottoman empire, so a Sultan of Turkey cannot be the
spiritual leader of millions who are not in any way under his control. I see no reason to suppose
that the transfer of the Caliph to Mecca would in any way weaken the faith of Moslems or diminish
their zeal. Mohammedans in India and in Russia show no more inclination to abandon their faith
than those who reside at Constantinople under the shadow of the Caliph; on the contrary, there
is more unbelief in Constantinople than there. What is more, there is every reason to believe
that such a transfer would gratify the great majority of Mohammedans, probably a majority of
those living in the Turkish Empire, certainly all the Arabic-speaking population. In one way
or another this change is sure to come, however it may be resisted by the Sultan; the very
effort that he has made to arouse the spirit of Islam has made it more apparent than before
that he is really powerless to defend any Mohammedan country against aggression. He could do
nothing for Tunis against France. He could do nothing for Arabi against England. The very encouragement
that he gave in these cases was an injury to them. The Arabs are all ready to assert their
rights to the Caliphate and defend them against the Sultan. If he does not surrender the title
voluntarily, sooner or later they will take it by force, and that part of the empire along with it.

The Sultan complains of the interference of Europe in the affairs of his empire; but, in fact,
he owes not only his throne, but his continued possession of the Caliphate, to their protection.
Let it be known in Mecca to-day that Europe would favour such a change and encourage an insurrection
in Syria and Arabia, and the new Shereef of Mecca would celebrate the Courban Beiram as Caliph
amidst such enthusiasm as has not been known there for a hundred years.

In spite of all this, however, in spite of the imperfection of his title, and the coolness
or discontent of Mohammedans throughout the world, in spite of the growing weakness of the
empire and his failure to defend those whom he has encouraged to resist Europe, it is not probable
that Sultan Hamid will voluntarily surrender the Caliphate. Abd-ul-Aziz might have done it
to save his empire, but Sultan Hamid is too religious a man; he values his title of Imam-ul-Mussilmin
too highly to give it up without a struggle. It is safe to conclude that he will cling to it
until it is taken by force by a stronger man.

I have already mentioned incidentally the relation of Europe to the Caliphate. England and
France are most directly interested in this question, and hitherto their policy has been to
sustain the claims of the Sultans. They seem to be quite as anxious to maintain the Caliphate
of Constantinople as the Sultans themselves, and its continuance has been due in great measure
to their protection. As the interest of France in this question is only secondary, I will confine
myself to the policy of England. It is not strange that England, with her Indian Empire and
40,000,000 Mohammedan subjects, should be deeply interested in the question of the Caliphate.
It must be a question of vital importance to her whether it is better for the peace of India
to have the Caliphate in the hands of a temporal sovereign at Constantinople or of a Shereef
of Mecca in Arabia. So long as she was in close alliance with the Sultan, and her influence
at Constantinople was supreme, there could not be any doubt on this subject, for a Caliph at
Mecca would be practically beyond her reach; but since the Crimean war English influence has
seldom been paramount at Constantinople. Still, English statesmen have probably reasoned that,
even if he were decidedly unfriendly, it was better to have a Caliph who had something to lose,
and who, on occasion, could be reached by a British fleet and bombarded in his palace, than
one in the deserts of Arabia, who could not be reached by pressure of any kind, either diplomatic
or military, who might proclaim a holy war without fear of being called to account for it.
There is always a great practical advantage in dealing with a responsible person. Then, again,
the late Sultans have manifested no inclination to rouse the fanaticism of Mohammedans against
Christendom. They have been only anxious that Christendom should forget them, and leave them
to manage their own affairs in their own way. Under these circumstances no English interest
has demanded the consideration of the question of the Caliphate. It is a religious question
which no Christian Government could wish to take up unless forced to do so. Whatever the Turks
may believe, it is certain that no European Power has any inclination to enter upon a crusade
against the Mohammedan religion. Even the Pope of Rome, who in former days decreed crusades
against the Moslem, is now on terms of the most friendly intimacy with the Caliph. England
not only carefully protects the rights of Mohammedans in India, but she has used all her influence
for years to strengthen the Ottoman Empire and discourage all agitation against the Caliphate
of the Sultan.

Such has been the policy of the past. But circumstances have changed, and long-cherished hopes
have been disappointed. The effort to reform and strengthen the Turkish empire has failed chiefly
because the Sultans have been unwilling or unable to abandon the strictly religious constitution
of the Government, and to distinguish between their duties as Caliphs, and their duties as
civil rulers over a mixed population of various sects. This failure has led to most unhappy
complications in Europe, to the dismemberment of European Turkey, and to a great development
of the influence of Russia, the Power most unfriendly to the existence of the Turkish Empire.
It is now clear to all the world that Turkey cannot be reformed by a Caliph. In addition to
this, the present Sultan, departing from the prudent course of his predecessors, has undertaken
to rouse the hostility of Islam against Christendom, and to encourage fanatical outbreaks,
not only in Africa, but in Asia as well. As Caliph he is no longer the friendly ally of the
Christian Powers, but, as far as he dares, is acting against them. Under these changed circumstances
the question must arise whether it is any longer for the interest of England to defend the
Caliphate of Constantinople. It is not a question of deposing one Caliph and setting up another.
This is not the work of a Christian Power. It is for Mohammedans to settle this question among
themselves. If they prefer to continue to recognize the Sultan as Caliph, they should be free
to do so. But the policy of England has not hitherto been one of neutrality. It has been the
active support of the Sultan. The question now is whether this support should not be withdrawn,
and the Arabs made to understand that if they prefer an Arab Caliph at Mecca, England will
not interfere to prevent it.

This is a very serious question, and the plan is open to the objection already suggested of
the inaccessibility of Mecca. It is also to be considered that the Arabs are more fanatical
and more easily excited than the Turks. But, on the other hand, it may be doubted whether the
influence of the Shereef of Mecca would be greatly increased by his assuming the title of Caliph.
It would not be recognized by the Turks, and Constantinople would be even more opposed to Mecca
than it is now. The nature of the new Caliph's influence would be the same that it is now as
Shereef of Mecca--a purely moral influence.

Another thing to be considered is the fact that this is only a question of time. Sooner or
later this change is sure to come. As the power of the Sultan continues to decline, he will
be less and less able to resist the progress of this Arab movement. It is not easy to see exactly
what England will gain by postponing this change. Certainly not the friendship of the Arabs.
I cannot speak with authority of the feeling in India; but it is understood that Indian Mohammedans
sympathize with the Arabs rather than the Turks. I cannot presume to give a decided opinion
on this question; but the new responsibilities assumed by the British Government in Egypt,
make it one of immediate practical importance. Are the real interests of England with the Turk
or the Arab?

FOOTNOTES:

[6] We have received this article from a valued correspondent, whose name, for obvious reasons,
is not given.--ED.

[7] The eve of Courban Beiram.

THE BOLLANDISTS:

THE LITERARY HISTORY OF A MAGNUM OPUS.

The majority of educated people have, from time to time, in the course of their historical
reading, come across some mention of the "Acta Sanctorum," or "Lives of the Saints;" while
but few know anything as to the contents, or authorship, or history of that work. Yet it is
a very great, nay a stupendous monument of what human industry, steadily directed for ages
towards one point, can effect. Industry, directed for ages, I have said--an expression, which
to some must seem almost like a misprint, but which is quite justified by facts, since the
first volume issued by the company of the Bollandists, is dated Antwerp, 1643; and the last,
Paris, A.D. 1875. Two hundred and forty years have thus elapsed, and yet the work is not concluded.
Indeed, as it has taken well-nigh two centuries and a half to narrate the lives of the Saints
commemorated in the first ten months of the year, it may easily happen that the bones of the
present generation will all be mingled with the dust, before those Saints be reached who are
celebrated on the 31st of December. Some indeed--prejudiced by the very name "Acta Sanctorum"--may
be inclined to turn away, with a contempt bred of ignorance, from the whole subject. But if
it were only as a mental and intellectual tonic the contemplation of these sixty stately folios,
embracing about a thousand pages each, would be a most healthy exercise for the men of this
age. This is the halcyon period of primers, introductions, handbooks, manuals. "Knowledge made
Easy" is the cry on every side. We take our mental pabulum just as we take Liebig's essence
of beef, in a very concentrated form, or as hom[oe]opathists imbibe their medicine, in the
shape of globules. I do not desire, however, to say one word against such publications. The
great scholars of the seventeenth century, the Bollandists, Casaubon, Fabricius, Valesius Baluze,
D'Achery, Mabillon, Combefis, Vossius, Canisius, shut up their learning in immense folios,
which failed to reach the masses as our primers and handbooks do, penetrating the darkness
and diffusing knowledge in regions inaccessible to their more ponderous brethren. But at the
same time their majestic tomes stand as everlasting protests on behalf of real and learned
inquiry, of accurate, painstaking, and often most critical research into the sources whence
history, if worth anything, must be drawn.

I propose in this paper to give an account of the origin, progress, contents, and value of
the work of the Bollandists, regarded as the vastest repertory of original material for the
history of mediæval times. This immense series is popularly known either as the "Acta Sanctorum"
or the Bollandists. The former is the proper designation. The latter, however, will suit best
as the peg on which we shall hang our narrative. John Bolland, or Joannes Bollandus as it is
in Latin, was the name of the founder of a Company which, more fortunate than most literary
clubs, has lasted well-nigh three centuries. To him must be ascribed the honour of initiating
the work, drawing the lines and laying the foundations of a building which has not yet been
completed. That work was one often contemplated but never undertaken on the same exhaustive
principles. Clement, the reputed disciple of the Apostles Peter and Paul, is reported--in the
"Liber Pontificalis" or "Lives of the Popes;" dating from the early years of the sixth century--to
have made provision for preserving the "Acts of the Martyrs." Apocryphal as this account seems,
yet the honest reader of Eusebius must confess that the idea was no novel one in the second
century, as is manifest from the well-known letter narrating the sufferings of the martyrs
of Lyons and Vienne. Space would now fail us to trace the development of hagiography in the
Church. Let it suffice to say that century after century, as it slowly rolled by, contributed
its quota both in east and west. In the east even an emperor, Basil, gave his name to a Greek
martyrology; while in both west and east the writings of Metaphrastes, Mombritius, Surius,
Lipomanus, and Baronius, embalmed abundant legends in many a portly volume. Still the mind
of a certain Heribert Rosweid, a professor at Douai, a Jesuit and an enthusiastic antiquarian,
was not satisfied. Rosweid was a typical instance of those Jesuits, learned and devout, who
at a great crisis in the battle restored the fallen fortunes of the Church of Rome. As the
original idea of the "Acta Sanctorum" is due to him, we may be pardoned in giving a brief sketch
of his career, though he was not in strictness a member of the Bollandist Company.

Rosweid was born at Utrecht, in 1569, and entered the Society of Jesus in 1589, the year when
all Europe, and the world at large, was ringing with the defeat of the Armada and the triumph
of Protestantism. He studied and taught first at Douai and then at Antwerp, where, also after
the manner of the Jesuits, he entered upon active pastoral work, in which he caught a contagious
fever, of which he died A.D. 1629. His literary life was very active, and very fruitful in
such literature as delighted that age. Thus he produced editions of various martyrologies,
the modern Roman, the ancient Roman, and that of Ado; he discussed the question of keeping
faith with heretics; took an active share in the everlasting controversy concerning the "Imitatio
Christi," wherein he espoused the side of A-Kempis and the Augustinians, as against Gerson
and the Benedictines; published the lives of the Eastern Ascetics, who were the founders of
modern monasticism; debated with Isaac Casaubon concerning Baronius; and published, in 1607,
the "Lives of the Belgic Saints," where we find the first sketch or general plan of the "Acta
Sanctorum." The idea of this great work suggested itself to Rosweid while living at Douai,
where he used to employ his leisure time in the libraries of the neighbouring Benedictine monasteries,
in search of manuscripts bearing on the lives of the Saints. It was an age of criticism, and
he doubtless felt dissatisfied with all existing compilations, content as they were to repeat,
parrot-like and without any examination, the legends of earlier ages. It was an age of research,
too--more fruitful in some respects than those which have followed--and he felt that an immense
mass of original material had never yet been utilized. It was at this period of his life he
produced the work above mentioned, which we have briefly named the "Lives of the Belgic Saints,"
but the full title of which is, "Fasti Sanctorum quorum Vitæ in Belgicis Bibliothecis Manuscriptæ."
He intended it as a specimen of a greater and more comprehensive work, embracing the lives
of all the Saints known to the Church throughout the world. He proposed that it should embrace
sixteen volumes, divided in the following manner:--The first volume dealing with the life of
Christ and the great feasts; the second with the life of the Blessed Virgin and her feasts;
the third to the sixteenth with the lives of the Saints according to the days of the month,
together with no less than thirteen distinct indexes, biographical, historical, controversial,
geographical, and moral; so that the reader might not have any ground for the complaint so
often brought against modern German scholars, that they afford no apparatus to help the busy
student when consulting their works. Rosweid's idea as to the manner in which those volumes
should be compiled was no less original. He proposed first of all to bring together all the
lives of Saints that had been ever published by previous hagiographers; which he would then
compare with ancient manuscripts, as he was convinced that considerable interpolation had been
made in the narratives. In addition, he desired to seek in all directions for new materials;
and to illustrate all the lives hitherto published or unpublished, by explaining obscurities,
reconciling difficulties, and shedding upon their darker details the light of a more modern
criticism. Rosweid's fame was European in the first quarter of the seventeenth century; and
his proposal attracted the widest attention. To the best judges it seemed utterly impracticable.
Cardinal Bellarmine heard of it, and proved his keenness and skill in literary criticism by
asking what age the man was who proposed such an undertaking. When informed that he was about
forty, "Ask him," said the learned Cardinal, "whether he has discovered that he will live two
hundred years; for within no smaller space can such a work be worthily performed by one man,"--an
unconscious prophecy, which has found in fact a most ample fulfilment; for death snatched away
Rosweid before he could do more towards his great undertaking than accumulate much precious
material; while more than two hundred years have elapsed, and yet the work is not completed.

After the death of Rosweid, the Society of Jesus, which now regarded the undertaking as a corporate
one, entrusted its continuation to Bollandus. He was thirty-three years of age, and had distinguished
himself in every branch of the Society's activity as a teacher, a divine, a scholar, and an
orator. In this last capacity, indeed, it was his duty to address Latin sermons to the aristocracy
of Antwerp, a fact which betokens a much more learned audience than now falls to any preacher's
lot. He was a wise director of conscience too, a sphere of duty in which the Jesuits have always
delighted. A story is told illustrating his skill in this direction. One of the highest magistrates
of the city, being suddenly seized with a fatal illness, despatched a messenger for Bollandus,
who at once responded to the call, only however to find the sick man in deepest trouble, on
account of the sternness with which he had exercised his judicial functions. He acknowledged
that he had often been the means of inflicting capital punishment when the other judges would
have passed a milder sentence in the belief that he was rescuing the condemned from greater
crimes, which they would inevitably commit, and securing the salvation of their souls through
the repentance to which their ghostly adviser would lead them prior to their execution. Bollandus
at once perceived that he had to deal with the over-scrupulous conscience of one who had striven,
according to his light, to do his duty. He therefore produced his breviary, and proceeded to
read and expound the hundred and first psalm, "I will sing of mercy and judgment;" making such
a very pertinent application of it to the magistrate's case, as led him to cry out with tears,
"What comfort thou hast brought me, Father! now I die happy." A consideration of these numerous
and apparently inconsistent engagements may not be without some practical use in this age.
Looking at the varied occupations of Bollandus and his fellows, and at the massive works which
they at the same time produced, who can help smiling at the outcry which the advocates for
the endowment of research, as they style themselves, raised some time ago against the simple
proposal of the Oxford University Commission, that well-endowed professors should deliver some
lectures on their own special subjects? Such a practice, they maintained, would utterly distract
the mind from all original investigation of the sources. Such certainly was not the case with
the Bollandists, who yet could make time carefully--far more carefully than most modern historians--to
investigate the sources of European history. But then the Bollandists were real students, and
had neither lawn tennis nor politics to divert them from their chosen career.

Bollandus again is a healthy study for us moderns in the triumph exhibited by him of mind over
matter, of the ardent student over physical difficulties. His rooms were no pleasant College
chambers, lofty, commodious, and well-ventilated; on the contrary the apartments where the
volumes commemorating the saints of January saw the light were two small dark chambers next
the roof, exposed alike to the heat of summer and the cold of winter, in the Jesuit House at
Antwerp. In them were heaped up, for such is the expression of his biographer, the documents
accumulated by his Society during forty years. How vast their number must have been is manifest
from this one fact that Bollandus possessed upwards of four hundred distinct Lives of Saints,
and more than two hundred histories of cities, bishoprics, and monasteries in the Italian language
alone, whence our readers may judge of the size of the entire collection which dealt with the
saints and martyrs of China, Japan, and Peru, as well as those of Greece and Home.

Bollandus was summoned to his life's work in 1629. He at once entered upon a vigorous pursuit
of fresh manuscripts in every quarter of the globe, wherein he was mightily assisted by the
organization of the Jesuit Society, and by the liberal assistance bestowed upon his undertaking
by successive abbots of the great Benedictine Monastery of Liessies, near Cambray, specially
by Antonius Winghius, the friend and patron, first of Rosweid, and then of Bollandus. Indeed,
it was the existence and rich endowments of those great monasteries which explains the publication
of such immense works as those of Bollandus, Mabillon, and Tillemont, quite surpassing any
now issued even by the wealthiest publishers among ourselves, and only approached, and that
at a distance, by Pertz's "Monumenta" in Germany.

New material was now poured upon him from every quarter, from English Benedictines even and
Irish Franciscans; though indeed, as regards the latter, Bollandus seems to have cherished
a wholesome suspicion as to the genuineness of many, if not most, of the Irish legends. But
Bollandus, though he worked hard, and knew no other enjoyment save his work, was only human.
He soon found the labour was too great for any one man to perform, while, in addition, he was
racked and torn with disease in many shapes; gout, stone, rupture, all settled like harpies
upon his emaciated frame, so that in 1635 he was compelled to take Henschenius as his assistant.
This was in every respect a fortunate choice, as Henschenius proved himself a man of much wider
views as to the scope of the work than Bollandus himself. Bollandus had proposed simply to
incorporate the notices of the Saints found in ancient martyrologies and manuscripts, adding
brief notes upon any difficulties of history, geography, or theology, which might arise. To
Henschenius was allotted the month of February. He at once set to work, and produced under
the date of Feb. 6, exhaustive memoirs of SS. Amandus and Vedastus, Gallic bishops of the sixth
and eleventh centuries whose lives present a striking picture of those troubled times, amid
which the foundations of French history were laid. Henschenius scorned the narrow limits within
which his master would fain limit himself. He boldly launched out into a discussion of all
the aspects of his subject, discussing not merely the men themselves, but also the history
of their times, and doing that in a manner now impossible, as the then well stored, but now
widely scattered muniment rooms of the abbeys of Flanders and Northern France lay at his disposal.
Bollandus was so struck with the success of this innovation that he at once abandoned his own
restricted ideas, and adopted the more exhaustive method of his assistant, which of course
involved the extension of the work far beyond the sixteen volumes originally contemplated.
The first two volumes appeared in 1643, and the next three, including the "Saints of February,"
in 1658. About this time the reigning Pontiff, Alexander VII., who had been the life-long friend
and patron of Bollandus, pressed upon him, an oft-repeated invitation to visit Rome, and utilize
for his work the vast stores accumulated there and in the other libraries of Italy. Bollandus
had hitherto excused himself. In fact, he possessed already more material than he could conveniently
use. But now that larger apartments had been assigned to him, and proper arrangements and classifications
adopted in his library--due especially to the skill of Henschenius--he felt that such a journey
would be most advantageous to his work. As, however, he could not go in person, owing to his
infirmities, which were daily increasing, he deputed thereto Henschenius and Daniel Papebrock,
a young assistant lately added to the Company, and destined to spend fifty-five years in its
service. The history of that literary journey is well worth reading. The reader, curious on
such points, will find it in the "Life of Bollandus," prefixed to the first volume of the "March
Saints," chap. xiii.--xx. Still more interesting, were it printed, would be the diary of his
journey kept by Papebrock, now preserved in the Burgundy Library at Brussels, and numbered
17,672. Twenty-nine months were spent in this journey, from the middle of 1659 to the end of
1661. Bollandus accompanied his disciples as far as Cologne, where they were received with
almost royal honours. After parting with their master, his followers proceeded up the Rhine
and through Southern Germany, making a very thorough examination of the libraries, to all of
which free access was given; the very Protestant town of Nuremberg being most forward to honour
the literary travellers, while the President of the Lutheran Consistory assisted them even
with his purse. Entering Italy by way of Trent, they arrived at Venice towards the end of October,
where they found the first rich store of Greek manuscripts, and whence also they despatched
by sea to Bollandus the first fruits of their toil. From Venice they made a thorough examination
of the libraries of North-east Italy, at Vicenza, Verona, Padua, Bologna; whence they turned
aside to visit Ravenna, walking thither one winter's day, November 18--a journey of thirty
miles--and Henschenius, be it observed, was now sixty years of age.[8] They spent the greater
part of the year 1661 at Rome, at Naples--where the blood and relics of St. Januarius were
specially exhibited to them, an honour only conferred on kings and their ambassadors--and amid
the rich libraries of the numerous abbeys of Southern Italy. But even when absent from Rome
their work there went on apace. They enjoyed the friendship of some wealthy merchants from
their own land, who liberally supplied them with money, enabling them to employ five or six
scribes to copy the manuscripts they selected; while the patronage of two eminent scholars,
even yet celebrated in the world of letters, Lucas Holstenius and Ferdinand Ughelli, backed
by the still more powerful aid of the Pope, placed every library at their command. The Pope,
indeed, went so far as to remove, in their case, every anathema forbidding the removal of books
or manuscripts from the libraries. Lucas Holstenius, in his boyhood a Lutheran, in his later
age an agent in the conversion of Queen Christina of Sweden, and one of the greatest among
the giants of the black-letter learning of the age, rated the Bollandists and their work so
highly that, at his decease, which took place while they were in Rome, he used their ministry
alone in receiving the last sacraments of the Roman Church. Encouraged and supported thus,
the Bollandists economized and utilized every moment. They were in the habit of rising before
day to say their sacred offices; and then prosecuted, with their secretaries, their loved work
till ten or eleven o'clock at night. When leaving Rome they were enabled therefore to send
to Bollandus, by sea, a second consignment of three chests of manuscripts, in addition to a
large store which they carried home themselves.

On their return journey they visited Florence and Milan, spending more than half a year in
these libraries, and then proceeded through France to Paris, where they met scholars like Du
Cange, Combefis, and Labbe. They finally arrived at home December 21, 1661, to find Bollandus
in a very precarious state of health, which terminated in his death in 1665. The life of Bolland
is a type of the lives led by all his disciples and successors. Devout, retired, studious,
they gave themselves up, generation after generation, to their appointed task, the elders continually
assuming to themselves one or two younger assistants, so as to preserve their traditions unimpaired.
And what a work was theirs! How it dwarfed all modern publications! Bollandus worked at eight
of those folios, Henschenius at twenty-four, Papebrock at nineteen, Janningus his successor
at thirteen; and so the work went on, aided by a subsidy from the Imperial House of Austria,
till the suppression of the Jesuits, which was followed soon after by the dissolution of the
Bollandists in 1788. Their library became then an object of desire to many foreigners, who
would undoubtedly have purchased it, had it not been for the opposition of the local government,
and of several Belgian abbeys. It was finally bought by Godfrey Hermans, a Præmonstratensian
abbat, under whose auspices the publication of the work continued for seven years longer, till,
on the outburst of the wars of the French Revolution, the library was dispersed, part burnt,
part hidden, part hurried into Westphalia. At length, after various chances, a great part of
the manuscripts was obtained for the ancient library of the House of Burgundy, now forming
part of the Royal Library at Brussels, while others of them were reclaimed for the library
of the New Bollandists at Louvain, where the work is now carried on. After the dissolution
of the old Company, two attempts at least, one in 1801 and the other in 1810--this last under
the all-powerful patronage of Napoleon--were made, though without success, to revive the work.
Better fortune attended a proposal made in 1838 by four members of the Jesuit Society--viz.,
J. B. Boone, J. Vandermocre, P. Coppens, and J. van Hecke. Since that time the publication
of the volumes has steadily proceeded; we may even hope that the progress of the work in the
future will be still more rapid, as the Company has lately added to its ranks P. C. de Smedt,
one of the most learned and laborious ecclesiastical historians in the Roman Communion.[9]

After this sketch of the history of the Bollandists, which the literary student can easily
supplement from the various memoirs of deceased members scattered through the volumes of the
"Acta Sanctorum," we proceed to a consideration of the results of labours so long, so varied,
and so strenuous. We shall now describe the plan of the work, the helps all too little known
towards the effective use thereof, and then offer some specimens illustrating its critical
value. When an ordinary reader takes up a volume of the "Acta Sanctorum,"' he is very apt to
find himself utterly at sea. The very pagination is puzzling, two distinct kinds being used
in all of the volumes, and even three in some. Then again lists, indexes, dissertations, acts
of Saints, seem mingled indiscriminately. This apparent confusion, however, is all on the surface,
as the reader will at once see, if he take the trouble to read the second chapter of the general
preface prefixed to the first volume of the "January Saints,"' where the plan of the work is
elaborately set forth. Let us briefly analyze a volume. The daily order of the Roman martyrology
was taken as the basis of Bolland's scheme. Our author first of all arranged the saints of
each day in chronological order, discussing them accordingly. A list of the names belonging
to it is prefixed to the portion of the volume devoted to each separate day, so that one can
see at a glance the lives belonging to that day and the order in which they are taken. A list
then follows of those rejected or postponed to other days. Next come prefaces, prolegomena,
and "previous dissertations," examining the lives, actions, and miracles of the Saints, authorship
and history of the manuscripts, and other literary and historical questions. Then appear the
lives of the Saints in the original language, if Latin; if not, then a Latin version is given;
while of the Greek menologion, which the Bollandists discovered during their Roman journey,
we have both the Greek original and a Latin translation. Appended to the lives are annotations,
explaining any difficulties therein; while no less than five or six indexes adorn each volume:
the first an alphabetical list of Saints discussed; the second chronological; the third historical;
the fourth topographical; the fifth an onomasticon, or glossary; the sixth moral or dialectic,
suggesting topics for preachers.

Prefixed to each volume will be found a dedication to some of the numerous patrons of the Bollandists,
followed by an account of the life and labours of any of their Company who had died since their
last publication. Thus, opening the first volume for March, we find, in order, a dedication
to the reigning Pope, Clement IX; the life of Bollandus; an alphabetical index of all the Saints
celebrated during the first eight days of March; a chronological list of Saints discussed under
the head of March 1; the lives of Saints, including the Greek ones discovered by Henschenius
during his Italian tour, ranged under their various natal days, followed by five indexes as
already described. But, the reader may well ask, is there no general index, no handy means
of steering one's way through this vast mass of erudition, without consulting each one of those
fifty or sixty volumes? Without such an apparatus, indeed, this giant undertaking would be
largely in vain; but here again the forethought of Bollandus from the very outset of his enterprise
made provision for a general index, which was at last published at Paris, in 1875. We possess
also in Potthast's "Bibliotheca Historica Medii Aevi," a most valuable guide through the mazes
of the "Acta Sanctorum," while for a very complete analysis of every volume, joined with a
lucid explanation of any changes in arrangement, we may consult De Backer's "Bibliothèque des
Ecrivains de la Compagnie de Jésus," t. v., under the name "Bollandus."

But some may say, what is the use of consulting these volumes? Are they not simply gigantic
monuments of misplaced and misapplied human industry, gathering up every wretched nursery tale
and village superstition, and transmitting them to future ages? Such certainly has been the
verdict of some who knew only the backs of the books, or who at farthest had opened by chance
upon some passage where--true to their rule which compelled them to print their manuscripts
as they found them--the Bollandists have recorded the legendary stories of the Middle Ages.
Yet even for an age which searches diligently, as after hid treasure, for the old folk-lore,
the nursery rhymes, the popular songs and legends of Scandinavia, Germany, and Greece, the
legends of mediæval Christendom might surely prove interesting. But I regard the "Acta Sanctorum"
as specially valuable for mediæval history, secular as well as ecclesiastical, simply because
the authors--having had unrivalled opportunities of obtaining or copying documents--printed
their authorities as they found them; and thus preserves for us a mine of historical material
which otherwise would have perished in the French Revolution and its subsequent wars. Yet it
is very strange how little this mine has been worked. We must suppose indeed that it was simply
due to the want of the helps enumerated above--all of which have come into existence within
the last twenty-five years--that neither of our own great historians who have dealt with the
Middle Ages, Gibbon or Hallam, have, as far as we have been able to discover, ever consulted them.

Yet the very titles of even a few out of the very many critical dissertations appended to the
"Lives of the Saints," will show how very varied and how very valuable were the purely historical
labours of the Bollandists. Thus opening the first volume of the "Thesaurus Antiquitatis,"
a collection of the critical treatises scattered through the volumes published prior to 1750,
the following titles strike the eye:--"Dissertations on the Byzantine historian Theophanes,"
on the "Ancient Catalogues of the Roman Pontiffs," on the "Diplomatic Art"--a discussion which
elicited the famous treatise of Mabillon, "De Re Diplomatica," laying down the true principles
for distinguishing false documents from true--on certain mediæval "Itineraries in Palestine,"
on the "Patriarchates of Alexandria and Jerusalem," on the "Bishops of Milan to the year 1261,"
on the "Mediæval Kings of Majorca" and no less than three treatises on the "Chronology of the
early Merovingian and other French Kings." Let us take for instance these last mentioned essays
on the early French kings. In them we find the Bollandists discovering a king of France, Dagobert
II., whose romantic history, banishment to Ireland, restoration to his kingdom by the instrumentality
of Archbishop Wilfrid, of York, and tragic death, had till their investigations lain hidden
from every historian. As soon, indeed, as they had brought this obscure episode to light, and
had elaborately traced the genealogy of the Merovingians, their claim to the discovery was
disputed by Hadr. Valesius, the historiographer to the French Court, who was of course jealous
that any one else should know more about the origins of the French monarchy than he did. His
pretension, however, was easily refuted by Henschenius, who showed that he had himself discovered
this derelict king twelve years before Valesius turned his thoughts to the subject, having
published in 1654 a dissertation upon him distinct from those embodied in the "Acta Sanctorum."
Hallam, in his "History of the Middle Ages," introduces this king, and notices that his history
had escaped all historians till discovered by some learned men in the seventeenth century,
for it is in this vague way he alludes to the Bollandists--and then refers for his authority
to Sismondi, who in turn knows nothing of the Bollandists' share in the discovery, but attributes
it to Mabillon when treating of the "Acts of the Benedictine Saints." Let us again take up
Hallam, and we shall in vain search for notices of the kings of Majorca, a branch of the Royal
family of Arragon, who reigned over the Balearic Islands in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries.
Let any one, however, desirous of a picture of the domestic life of sovereigns during the Middle
Ages, take up Papebrock's treatise on the "Palatine Laws" of James II., King of Majorca, A.D.
1324, where he will see depicted--all the more minutely because from the size of his principality
the king had no other outlet for his energy--the ritual of a mediæval Court, illustrated, too,
with pictures drawn from the original manuscript. In this document are laid down with painful
minuteness, the duties of every official from the chancellor and the major-domo to the lowest
scullions and grooms, including butlers, cooks, blacksmiths, musicians, scribes, physicians,
surgeons, chaplains, choir-men, and chamberlains. Remote, too, as these kings of Majorca and
their elaborate ceremonial may seem to be from the England of to-day, a careful study of these
"Palace Laws" would seem to indicate either that our own Court Ritual was derived from it,
or else that both are deduced from one common stock. The point of contact, however, between
our own Court etiquette and that of Majorca is not so very hard to find. The kings of Arragon,
acting on the usual principle, might is right, devoured the inheritance of their kinsmen, which
lay so tantalizingly close to their own shores, during the lifetime of the worthy legislator,
James II. But as Greece led captive her conqueror, Rome, so too Arragon, though superior in
brute force, bowed to the genius of Majorca, at least on points of courtly details, and adopted
en bloc the laws of James II., which were published as his own by Peter IV., King of Arragon,
A.D. 1344. Thence they passed over to the United Kingdom of Castile and Arragon, and so may
have easily found their way to England; for surely, if a naturally ceremonious people like
the Spaniards needed instruction on such matters from the Majorcans, how much more must colder
northerns like ourselves. This incident illustrates the special opportunities possessed by
the Bollandists for consulting ancient documents, which otherwise would most probably have
been lost for ever. Their manuscript of those Majorcan laws seems to have been originally the
property of the legislator himself. When King James was dispossessed of his kingdom, he fled
to Philip VI. of France, seeking redress, and bearing with him a splendid copy of his laws
as a present, which his son and successor John in turn presented to Philip, Duke of Burgundy.
After lying there a century it found its way to Flanders, in the train of a Duchess of Burgundy,
and thus finally came into the possession of the Antwerp Jesuits.

Again, the study of the Bollandists throws light upon the past history and present state of
Palestine. Thus the indefatigable Papebrock, equally at home in the most various kinds of learning,
discusses the history of the Bishops and Patriarchs of Jerusalem, in a tract preliminary to
the third volume for May. But, not content with a subject so wide, he branches off to treat
of divers other questions relating to Oriental history, such as the Essenes and the origin
of Monasticism, the Saracenic persecution of the Eastern Christians, and the introduction of
the Arabic notation into Europe. On this last head the Bollandists anticipate some modern speculations.[10]
He maintains, on the authority of a Greek manuscript in the Vatican, written by an Eastern
monk, Maximus Planudes, about 1270, that, while the Arabs derived their notation from the Brahmins
of India, about A.D. 200, they only introduced it into Eastern Europe so late as the thirteenth
century. Upon the geography of Palestine again they give us information. All modern works of
travel or survey dealing with the Holy Land, make frequent reference to the records left us
by men like Eusebius and Jerome, and the itineraries of the "Bordeaux Pilgrim," of Bishop Arculf,
A.D., 700, Benjamin of Tudela, A.D. 1163, and others. In the second volume for May, we have
presented to us two itineraries, one of which seems to have escaped general notice. One is
the record of Antoninus Martyr, a traveller in the seventh century. This is well known and
often quoted. The other is the diary of a Greek priest, Joannes Phocas, describing "the castles
and cities from Antioch to Jerusalem, together with the holy places of Syria, Ph[oe]nicia,
and Palestine," as they were seen by him in the year 1185. This manuscript, first published
in the "Acta Sanctorum," was discovered in the island of Chios, by Leo Allatius, afterwards
librarian of the Vatican. It is very rich in interesting details concerning the state of Palestine
and Christian tradition in the twelfth century. The Bollandists again were the first to bring
prominently forward in the last volume of June the "Ancient Roman Calendar of Polemeus Silvius."
This seems to have been a combined calendar and diary, kept by some citizen of Rome in the
middle of the fifth century. It records from day to day the state of the weather, the direction
of the wind, the birthdays of eminent characters in history, poets like Virgil, orators like
Cicero, emperors like Vespasian and Julian; and is at the same time most important as showing
the large intermixture of heathen ideas and fashions which still continued paramount in Rome
a century and a half after the triumph of Christianity.

The new Bollandists, indeed, do not produce such exhaustive monographs as their predecessors
did; but we cannot join in the verdict of the writer in the new issue of the "Encyclopædia
Britannica," who tells us that the continuation is much inferior to the original work. Some
of their articles manifest a critical acquaintance with the latest modern research, as, for
instance, their dissertation on the Homerite Martyrs and the Jewish Homerite kingdom of Southern
Arabia, wherein they display their knowledge of the work done by the great Orientalists of
England and Germany, while in their history of St. Rose, of Lima, A.D. 1617, they celebrate
the only American who was ever canonized by the Roman Catholic Church, and, at the same time,
give us a fearful picture of the austerities to which fanaticism can lead its victims. Perhaps
to some readers one of the most interesting points about this great work, when viewed in the
light of modern history, will be the complete change of front which it exhibits on one of the
test questions about Papal Infallibility. One of the great difficulties in the path of this
doctrine is the case of Liberius, Pope in the middle of the fourth century. He is accused--and
to ordinary minds the accusation seems just--of having signed an Arian formula, of having communicated
with the Arians, and of having anathematized St. Athanasius. He stood firm for a while, but
was exiled by the Emperor. During his absence Felix II. was chosen Pope. Liberius, after a
time was permitted to return; whereupon the spectacle, so often afterwards repeated, was witnessed
of two Popes competing for the Papal throne. Felix, however he may have fared in life, has
fairly surpassed his opponent in death, since Felix appears in the Roman Martyrology as a Saint
and a Martyr under the date of July 29; while Liberius is not admitted therein even as a Confessor.
This would surely seem to give us every guarantee for the sanctity of Felix, and the fallibility
of Liberius, as the Roman Martyrology of to-day is guaranteed by a decree of Pope Gregory XIII.,
issued "under the ring of the Fisherman." In this decree "all patriarchs, archbishops, bishops,
abbots, and religious orders," are bidden to use this Martyrology without addition, change,
or subtraction; while any one so altering it is warned that he will incur the wrath of Almighty
God and of the Blessed Apostles Peter and Paul. The earlier Bollandists, with this awful anathema
hanging over them, most loyally accepted the Roman Martyrology, and therefore most vigorously
maintained, in the seventh volume for July, the heresy of Liberius, as well as the orthodoxy
and saintship of Felix. But, as years rolled on, this admission was seen to be of most dangerous
consequence; and so we find, in the sixth volume, for September, that Felix has become, as
he still remains in current Roman historians, like Alzog, a heretic, a schismatic, and an anti-Pope,
while Liberius is restored to his position as the only valid and orthodox Bishop of Rome. But
then the disagreeable question arises, if this be so, what becomes of the Papal decree of Gregory
XIII. issued sub annulo piscatoris, and the anathemas appended thereto? With the merits of
this controversy, however, we are, as historical students, in a very slight degree concerned;
and we simply produce these facts as specimens of the riches contained in the externally unattractive
volumes of the "Acta Sanctorum." Space would fail us, did we attempt to set forth at any length
the contents of these volumes. Suffice it to say that even upon our English annals, which have
been so thoroughly explored of late years, the records of the Bollandists would probably throw
some light, discussing as they do, at great length, the lives of such English Saints as Edward
the Confessor and Wilfrid of York; and yet they are not too favourably disposed towards our
insular Saints, since they plainly express their opinion that our pious simplicity has filled
their Acts with incredible legends and miracles, more suited to excite laughter than to promote
edification.

But, doubtless, our reader is weary of our hagiographers. We must, therefore, notice briefly
the controversies in which their labours involved them. Bollandus, when he died, departed amid
universal regret: Dominicans, Franciscans, Carmelites, all joined with Jesuits in regret for
his death, and in prayers for his eternal peace. A few years afterwards the Society experienced
the very fleeting character of such universal popularity. During the issue of the first twelve
volumes, they had steered clear of all dangerous controversies by a rigid observance of the
precepts laid down by Bollandus. In discussing, however, the life of Albert, at first Bishop
of Vercelli, and afterwards Papal Legate and Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, in the beginning
of the thirteenth century, Papebrock challenged the alleged antiquity of the Carmelite Order,
which affected to trace itself back to Elijah the Tishbite. This piece of scepticism, brought
down a storm upon his devoted head, which raged for years and involved Popes, yea even Princes
and Courts, in the quarrel. Du Cange threw the shield of his vast learning over the honest
criticism of the Jesuits. The Spanish Inquisition stepped forward in defence of the Carmelites;
and toward the end of the seventeenth century condemned the first fourteen volumes of the "Acta
Sanctorum" as dangerous to the faith. The Carmelites were very active in writing pamphlets
in their own defence, wherein after the manner of the time they deal more in hard words and
bad names than in sound argument. Thus the title of one of their pamphlets describes Papebrock
as "the new Ishmael whose hand is against every man and every man's hand is against him." It
is evident, however, that they felt the literary battle going against them, inasmuch as in
1696 they petitioned the King of Spain to impose perpetual silence upon their adversaries.
As his most Catholic Majesty did not see fit to interfere, they presented a similar memorial
to Pope Innocent XIII., who in 1699 imposed the clôture upon all parties, and thus effectually
terminated a battle which had raged for twenty years. Papebrock again involved himself at a
later period in a controversy touching a very tender and very important point in the Roman
system. In discussing the lives of some Chinese martyrs, he advocated the translation of the
Liturgy into the vulgar tongue of the converts; which elicited a reply from Gueranger in his
"Institutions Théologiques;" while again between the years 1729 and 1736 a pitched battle took
place between the Bollandists and the Dominicans touching the genealogy of their founder, St.
Dominic. All these controversies, with many other minor ones in which they were engaged, will
be found summed up in an apologetic folio which the Bollandists published. In looking through
it the reader will specially be struck by this instructive fact, that the bitterness and violence
of the controversy were always in the inverse ratio of the importance of the points at issue.
This much also must any fair mind allow: the Society of Jesus, since the days of Pascal and
the "Provincial Letters," has been regarded as a synonym for dishonesty and fraud. From any
such charge the student of the "Acta Sanctorum" must regard the Bollandists as free. In them
we behold oftentimes a credulity which would not have found place among men who knew by experience
more of the world of life and action, but, on the other hand, we find in them thorough loyalty
to historical truth. They deal in no suppression of evidence; they give every side of the question.
They write like men who feel, as Bollandus their founder did, that under no circumstances is
it right to tell a lie. They never hesitate to avow their own convictions and predilections.
They draw their own conclusions, and put their own gloss upon facts and documents; but yet
they give the documents as they found them, and they enable the impartial student--working
not in trammels as they did--to make a sounder and truer use of them. They display not the
spirit of the mere confessor whose tone has been lowered by the stifling atmosphere of the
casuistry with which he has been perpetually dealing; but, the braced soul, the hardy courage
of the historical critic, who having climbed the lofty peaks of bygone centuries, has watched
and noted the inevitable discovery and defeat of lies, the grandeur and beauty of truth. They
were Jesuits indeed, and, like all the members of that Society, were bound, so far as possible,
to sink all human affections and consecrate every thought to the work of their order. If such
a sacrifice be lawful for any man, if it be permitted any thus to suppress the deepest and
holiest affections which God has created, surely such a sacrifice could not have been made
in the pursuance of a worthier or nobler object than the rescue from destruction, and the preservation
to all ages, of the facts and documents contained in the "Acta Sanctorum."

   GEORGE T. STOKES.

FOOTNOTES:

[8] Henschenius was a man of great physical powers. He always delighted in walking exercise,
and executed many of his literary journeys in Italy on foot, even amid the summer heats. Ten
years later, when close on seventy, he walked on an emergency ten leagues in one day through
the mountains and forests of the Ardennes district, and was quite fresh next day for another
journey. He was a man of very full complexion. According to the medical system of the time,
he indulged in blood-letting once or twice a year.

[9] Since this paper was written the Bollandists have issued a prospectus of an annual publication
called "Analecta Bollandiana." From this document we learn that disease and death have now
reduced the company very low. De Smedt has had to retire almost as soon as elected.

[10] Cf., for instance, Colebrooke's "Life and Essays," i. 309. iii. 360, 399, 474; W[oe]pké,
"Memoir on the Propagation of Indian Cyphers in Jour. Asiatique," 1863.

ENGLAND, FRANCE, AND MADAGASCAR.

The present difficulties between France and Madagascar, and the recent arrival of a Malagasy
Embassy in this country, have made the name of the great African island a familiar one to all
readers of our daily journals during the last few weeks. For some time past we have heard much
of certain "French claims" upon Madagascar, and alleged "French rights" there; and since the
envoys of the Malagasy sovereign are now in England seeking the friendly offices of our Government
on behalf of their country, it will be well for Englishmen to endeavour to understand the merits
of the dispute, and to know why they are called to take part in the controversy.

Except to a section of the English public which has for many years taken a deep interest in
the religious history of the island and given liberally both men and money to enlighten it,
and to a few others who are concerned in its growing trade, Madagascar is still very vaguely
known to the majority of English people; and, as was lately remarked by a daily journal, its
name has until recently been almost as much a mere geographical expression as that of Mesopotamia.
The island has, however, certain very interesting features in its scientific aspects, and especially
in some religious and social problems which have been worked out by its people during the past
fifty years; and these may be briefly described before proceeding to discuss the principal
subject of this article.

Looking sideways at a map of the Southern Indian Ocean, Madagascar appears to rise like a huge
sea monster out of the waters. The island has a remarkably compact and regular outline; for
many hundred miles its eastern shore is almost a straight line, but on its north-western side
it is indented by a number of deep land-locked gulfs, which include some of the finest harbours
in the world. About a third of its interior to the north and east is occupied by an elevated
mountainous region, raised from 3,000 to 5,000 feet above the sea, and consisting of Primary
rocks--granite, gneiss, and basalt--probably very ancient land, and forming during the Secondary
geological epoch an island much smaller than the Madagascar of to-day. While our Oolitic and
Chalk rocks were being slowly laid down under northern seas, the extensive coast plains of
the island, especially on its western and southern sides, were again and again under water,
and are still raised but a few hundred feet above the sea-level. From south-east to north and
north-west there extends a band of extinct volcanoes, connected probably with the old craters
of the Comoro Group, where, in Great Comoro, the subterranean forces are still active. All
round the island runs a girdle of dense forest, varying from ten to forty miles in width, and
containing fine timber and valuable gums and other vegetable wealth--a paradise for botanists,
where rare orchids, the graceful traveller's-tree, the delicate lattice-leaf plant, the gorgeous
flamboyant, and many other elsewhere unknown forms of life abound, and where doubtless much
still awaits fuller research.

While the flora of Madagascar is remarkably abundant, its fauna is strangely limited, and contains
none of the various and plentiful forms of mammalian life which make Southern and Central Africa
the paradise of sportsmen. The ancient land of the island has preserved antique forms of life:
many species of lemur make the forest resound with their cries; and these, with the curious
and highly-specialized Aye-aye, and peculiar species of Viverridæ and Insectivora, are probably
"survivals", of an old-world existence, when Madagascar was one of an archipelago of large
islands, whose remains are only small islands like the Seychelles and Mascarene Groups, or
coral banks and atolls like the Chagos, Amirante, and others, which are slowly disappearing
beneath the ocean. Until two or three hundred years ago, the coast-plains of Madagascar were
trodden by the great struthious bird, the Æpyornis, apparently the most gigantic member of
the avi-fauna of the world, and whose enormous eggs probably gave rise to the stories of the
Rukh of the "Arabian Nights." It will be evident, therefore, that Madagascar is full of interest
as regards its scientific aspects.

When we look at the human inhabitants of the island there is also a considerable field for
research, and some puzzling problems are presented. While Madagascar may be correctly termed
"the great African island" as regards its geographical position, considered ethnologically,
it is rather a Malayo-Polynesian island. Though so near Africa, it has but slight connection
with the continent; the customs, traditions, language, and mental and physical characteristics
of its people all tend to show that their ancestors came across the Indian Ocean from the south-east
of Asia. There are traces of some aboriginal peoples in parts of the interior, but the dark
and the brown Polynesians are probably both represented in the different Malagasy tribes; and
although scattered somewhat thinly over an island a thousand miles long and four times as large
as England and Wales, there is substantially but one language spoken throughout the whole of
Madagascar. Of these people, the Hova, who occupy the central portion of the interior high-land,
are the lightest in colour and the most civilized, and are probably the latest and purest Malay
immigrants. Along the western coast are a number of tribes commonly grouped under the term
Sàkalàva, but each having its own dialect, chief, and customs. They are nomadic in habits,
keeping large herds of cattle, and are less given to agriculture than the central and eastern
peoples. In the interior are found, besides the Hova, the Sihànaka, the Bétsiléo, and the Bàra;
in the eastern forests are the Tanàla, and on the eastern coast are the Bétsimisàraka, Tamòro,
Taisàka, and other allied peoples.

From a remote period the various Malagasy tribes seem to have retained their own independence
of each other, no one tribe having any great superiority; but about two hundred years ago a
warlike south-western tribe called Sàkalàva conquered all the others on the west coast, and
formed two powerful kingdoms, which exacted tribute also from some of the interior peoples.
Towards the commencement of the present century, however, the Hova became predominant; having
conquered the interior and eastern tribes, they were also enabled by friendship with England
to subdue the Sàkalàva, and by the year 1824 King Radàma I. had established his authority over
the whole of Madagascar except a portion of the south-west coast.

A little earlier than the date last named--viz., in 1820--a Protestant mission was commenced
in the interior of the island at the capital city, Antanànarivo. This was with the full approval
of the king, who was a kind of Malagasy Peter the Great, and ardently desired that his people
should be enlightened. A small body of earnest men sent out by the London Missionary Society
did a great work during the fifteen years they were allowed to labour in the central provinces.
They reduced the beautiful and musical Malagasy language to a written form; they gave the people
the beginnings of a native literature, and a complete version of the Holy Scriptures, and founded
several Christian churches. Many of the useful arts were also taught by the missionary artisans;
and to all appearance Christianity and civilization seemed likely soon to prevail throughout
the country.

But the accession of Queen Ranavàlona I. in 1828, and, still more, her proclamation of 1835
denouncing Christian teaching, dispelled these pleasing anticipations. A severe persecution
of Christianity ensued, which, however, utterly failed to prevent its progress, and only served
to show in a remarkable manner the faith and courage of the native Christians, of whom at least
two hundred were put to death. The political state of the country was also very deplorable
during the queen's reign; almost all foreigners were excluded, and for some years even foreign
commerce was forbidden.

On the queen's death, in 1861, the island was reopened to trade and to Christian teaching,
both of which have greatly progressed since that time, especially during the reign of the present
sovereign, who made a public profession of Christianity at her accession in 1868. By the advice
and with the co-operation of her able Prime Minister numerous wise and enlightened measures
have been passed for the better government of the country; idolatry has entirely passed away
from the central provinces; education and civilization have been making rapid advances; and
all who hope for human progress have rejoiced to see how the Malagasy have been gradually rising
to the position of a civilized and Christian people.

The present year has, however, brought a dark cloud over the bright prospects which have been
opening up for Madagascar. Foreign aggression on the independence of the country is threatened
on the part of France, and a variety of so-called "claims" have been put forward to justify
interference with the Malagasy, and alleged "rights" are urged to large portions of their territory.

It is not perfectly clear why the present time has been chosen for this recent ebullition of
French feeling, since, if any French rights ever existed to any portion of Madagascar, they
might have been as justly (or unjustly) urged for the last forty years as now. Some three or
four minor matters have no doubt been made the ostensible pretext,[11] but the real reason
is doubtless the same as that which has led to French attempts to obtain territory in Tongking,
in the Congo Valley, in the Gulf of Aden, and in Eastern Polynesia, viz., a desire to retrieve
abroad their loss of influence in Europe; and especially to heal the French amour propre, sorely
wounded by their having allowed England to settle alone the Egyptian difficulty.

It is much to be wished that some definite and authoritative statement could be obtained from
French statesmen or writers as to the exact claims now put forward and their justification,
with some slight concession to the request of outsiders for reason and argument. As it is,
almost every French newspaper seems to have a theory of its own, and we read a good deal about
"our ancient rights," and "our acknowledged claims," together with similar vague and rather
grandiose language. As far as can be ascertained, four different theories seem to be held:--(1)
Some French writers speak of their "ancient rights," as if the various utter failures of their
nation to retain any military post in Madagascar in the 17th and 18th centuries were to be
urged as giving rights of possession.

(2) Others talk about "the treaties of 1841" with two rebellious Sàkalàva tribes as an ample
justification of their present action.

(3) Others, again, refer to the repudiated and abandoned "Lambert treaty" of 1862 as, somehow
or other, still giving the French a hold upon Madagascar. And (4) during the last few days
we have been gravely informed that "France will insist upon carrying out the treaty of 1868,"
which gives no right in Madagascar to France beyond that given to every nation with whom a
treaty has been made, and which says not one word about any French protectorate.[12]

It will be necessary to examine these four points a little in detail.

1. Of what value are "ancient French rights" in Madagascar? These do not rest upon discovery
of the country, or prior occupation of it, since almost every writer, French, English, or German,
agrees that the Portuguese, in 1506, were the first Europeans to land on the island. They retained
some kind of connection with Madagascar for many years; and so did the Dutch, for a shorter
period, in the early part of the seventeenth century; and the English also had a small colony
on the south-west side of the island before any French attempts were made at colonization.
Three European nations therefore preceded the French in Madagascar.

During the seventeenth century, from 1643 to 1672, repeated efforts were made by the French
to maintain a hold on three or four points of the east coast of the island. But these were
not colonies, and were so utterly mismanaged that eventually the French were driven out by
the exasperated inhabitants; and after less than thirty years' intermittent occupation of these
positions, the country was abandoned by them altogether for more than seventy years.[13] In
the latter part of the eighteenth century fresh attempts were made (after 1745), but with little
better result; one post after another was relinquished; so that towards the beginning of the
present century the only use made of Madagascar by the French was for the slave-trade, and
the maintenance of two or three trading stations for supplying oxen to the Mascarene Islands.[14]
In 1810 the capture of Mauritius and Bourbon by the British gave a decisive blow to French
predominance in the Southern Indian Ocean; their two or three posts on the east coast were
occupied by English troops, and were by us given over to Radàma I., who had succeeded in making
himself supreme over the greater portion of the island. The French eventually seized the little
island of Ste. Marie's, off the eastern coast, but retained not a foot of soil upon the mainland;
and so ended, it might have been supposed, their "ancient rights" in Madagascar.[15]

It is, however, quite unnecessary to dwell further on this point, as the recognition by the
French, in their treaty with Radàma II., of that prince as King of Madagascar was a sufficient
renunciation of their ancient pretensions. This is indeed admitted by French writers. M. Galos,
writing in the Revue des Deux Mondes(Oct. 1863, p. 700), says, speaking of the treaty of Sept.
2, 1861:--

     "By that act, in which Radàma II. appears as King of Madagascar, we
     have recognized without restriction his sovereignty over all the
     island. In consequence of that recognition two consuls have been
     accredited to him, the one at Tanànarìvo, the other at Tamatave,
     who only exercise their functions by virtue of an exequatur from
     the real sovereign."

Again he remarks:--?

     "We see that France would not gain much by resuming her position
     anterior to 1861; also, we may add, without regret, that it is no
     longer possible. We have recognized in the King of Madagascar the
     necessary quality to enable him to treat with us on all the
     interests of the island. It does not follow, because he or his
     successors fail to observe the engagements that they have
     contracted, that therefore the quality aforesaid is lost, or that
     we should have the right to refuse it to them for the future."[16]

And the treaty of 1868 again, in which the present sovereign is recognized as "Reine de Madagascar,"
fully confirms the view of the French writer just cited.[17]

2. Let us now look for a moment at the Lambert treaty, or rather charter, of 1862. On his accession
to the throne in 1861, the young king, Radàma II., soon fell into follies and vices which were
not a little encouraged by some Frenchmen who had ingratiated themselves with him. A Monsieur
Lambert, a planter from Réunion, managed to obtain the king's consent to a charter conceding
to a company to be formed by Lambert very extensive rights over the whole of Madagascar. The
king's signature was obtained while he was in a state of intoxication, at a banquet given at
the house of the French Consul, and against the remonstrances of all the leading people of
the kingdom. But the concession was one of the principal causes of the revolution of the following
year, in which the king lost both crown and life; and it was promptly repudiated by the new
Sovereign and her Government, as a virtual abandonment of the country to France. Threats of
bombardment, &c., were freely used, but at length it was arranged that, on the payment of an
indemnity of a million francs by the native Government to the company, its rights should be
abandoned. It is said that this pacific result was largely due to the good sense and kindly
feeling of the Emperor Napoleon, who, on being informed of the progress in civilization and
Christianity made by the Malagasy, refused to allow this to be imperilled by aggressive war.
There would seem, then, to be no ground for present French action on the strength of the repudiated
Lambert treaty.

3. As already observed, several French public prints have been loudly proclaiming that France
is resolved "to uphold the treaty of 1868 in its entirety."[18] It may with the same emphasis
be announced that the Malagasy Government is equally resolved to uphold it, so far at least
as they are concerned, especially its first article, which declares that "in all time to come
the subjects of each power shall be friends, and shall preserve amity, and shall never fight."
But it should be also carefully noted that this 1868 treaty recognizes unreservedly the Queen
as Sovereign of Madagascar, makes no admission of, or allusion to, any of these alleged French
rights, much less any protectorate; and is simply a treaty of friendship and commerce between
two nations, standing, as far as power to make treaties is concerned, on an equal footing.
If French statesmen, therefore, are sincere in saying that they only require the maintenance
of the treaty of 1868 in its integrity, the difficulties between the two nations will soon
be at an end.

But it is doubtful whether the foregoing is really a French "claim," as far more stress has
been laid, and will still doubtless be laid, upon certain alleged treaties of 1841. What the
value of these is we must now consider.

4. The facts connected with the 1841 treaties are briefly these:--In the year 1839 two of the
numerous Sàkalàva tribes of the north-west of the island, who had since the conquest in 1824
been in subjection to the central government, broke into rebellion. It happened that a French
war vessel was then cruising in those waters, and as the French had for some time previously
lost all the positions they had ever occupied on the east coast, it appeared a fine opportunity
for recovering prestige in the west. By presents and promises of protection they induced, it
is alleged, the chieftainess of the Ibòina people, and the chief of the Tankàrana, further
north, to cede to them their territories on the mainland, as well as the island of Nòsibé,
off the north-west coast. These treaties are given by De Clercq, "Recueil de Traités," vol.
iv. pp. 594, 597; but whether these half-barbarous Sàkalàva, ignorant of reading and writing,
knew what they were doing, is very doubtful. Nòsibé was, however, taken possession of by the
French in 1841, and has ever since then remained in their hands; but, curiously enough, until
the present year, no claim has ever been put forward to any portion of the mainland, or any
attempt made to take possession of it. But these treaties have been lately advanced as justifying
very large demands on the part of the French, including (a) a protectorate over the portions
ceded; (b) a protectorate over all the northern part of the island, from Mojangà across to
Aritongil Bay; (c) a protectorate over all the western side of the island; finally (d), "general
rights" (whatever these may mean) over all Madagascar! Most English papers have rightly considered
these treaties as affording no justification for such large pretensions, although one or two[19]
have argued that the London press has unfairly depreciated the strength of French claims. Is
this really so?

The Malagasy Government and its envoys to Europe have strenuously denied the right of a rebellious
tribe to alienate any portion of the country to a foreign power; a right which would never
be recognized by any civilized nation, and which they will resist to the last. The following
are amongst some of the reasons they urge as vitiating and nullifying any French claim upon
the mainland founded upon the 1841 treaties:--

i. The territory claimed had been fairly conquered in war in 1824 by the Hova, and their sovereign
rights had for many years never been disputed.

ii. The present queen and her predecessors had been acknowledged by the French in their treaties
of 1868 and 1862 as sovereigns of Madagascar, without any reserve whatever. (See also Revue
des deux Mondes, already cited.)

iii. Military posts have been established there, and customs duties collected by Hova officials
ever since the country was conquered by them, and these have been paid without any demur or
reservation by French as well as by all other foreign vessels. Some years ago complaints were
made by certain French traders of overcharges; these were investigated, and money was refunded.

iv. All the Sàkalàva chiefs in that part of the island have at various times rendered fealty
to the sovereign at Antanànarìvo.

v. These same Sàkalàva, both princes and people, have paid a yearly poll-tax to the Central
Government.

vi. The French flag has never been hoisted on the mainland of Madagascar, nor, for forty years,
has any claim to this territory been made by France, nothing whatever being said about any
rights or protectorate on their part in the treaties concluded during that period.

vii. The Hova governors have occasionally (after the fashion set now and then by governors
of more civilized peoples) oppressed the conquered races. But the Sàkalàva have always looked
to the Queen at Antanànarìvo for redress (and have obtained it), and never has any reference
been made to France, nor has any jurisdiction been claimed by France or by the colonial French
authorities in the matter.

viii. British war-vessels have for many years past had the right (conceded by our treaty of
1865) to cruise in these north-western bays, creeks, and rivers, for the prevention of the
slave trade. The British Consul has landed on this territory, and in conducting inquiries has
dealt directly with the Hova authorities without the slightest reference to France, or any
claim from the latter that he should do so.

ix. The French representatives in Madagascar have repeatedly blamed the Central Government
for not asserting its authority more fully over the north-west coast; and several years ago,
in the reign of Ranavàlona I., a French subject, with the help of a few natives, landed on
this coast with the intention of working some of the mineral productions, and built a fortified
post. Refusing to desist, he was attacked by the Queen's troops, and eventually killed. No
complaint was ever made by the French authorities on account of this occurrence, as it was
admitted to be the just punishment for an unlawful act. Yet it was done on what the French
now claim as their territory.

x. And, lastly, France has quite recently (in May of this year) extorted a heavy money fine
from the Malagasy Government for a so-called "outrage" committed by the Sàkalàva upon some
Arabs from Mayotta, sailing under French colours. These latter were illegally attempting to
land arms and ammunition, and were killed in the fight which ensued. The demand was grossly
unjust, but the fact of its having been made would seem to all impartial persons to vitiate
utterly all French claims to this territory, as an unmistakable acknowledgment of the Hova
supremacy there.

Such are, as far as can be ascertained, the most important reasons recently put forth for French
claims upon Madagascar, and the Malagasy replies thereto; and it would really be a service
to the native Government and its envoys if some French writer of authority and knowledge would
endeavour to refute the arguments just advanced.

Another point of considerable importance is the demand of the French that leases of ninety-nine
years shall be allowed. This has been resisted by the Malagasy Government as most undesirable
in the present condition of the country. It is, however, prepared to grant leases of thirty-five
years, renewable on complying with certain forms. It argues, with considerable reason on its
side, that unless all powers of obtaining land by foreigners are strictly regulated, the more
ignorant coast people will still do as they are known to have done, and will make over, while
intoxicated, large tracts of land to foreign adventurers for the most trifling consideration,
such as a bottle of rum, or a similar payment.

       *       *       *       *       *

The question now arises, what have Englishmen to do in this matter, and what justifies our
taking part in the dispute?

Let us first frankly make two or three admissions. We have no right to hinder, nor do we seek
to prevent, the legitimate development of the colonial power of France. So far as France can
replace savagery by true civilization, we shall rejoice in her advances in any part of the
world. And further, we have no right to, nor do we pretend to the exercise of, the duty of
police of the world. But at the same time, while we ought not and cannot undertake such extensive
responsibilities, we have, in this part of the Indian Ocean, constituted ourselves for many
years a kind of international police for the suppression of the slave-trade, in the interests
of humanity and freedom; and this fact has been expressly or tacitly recognized by other European
Powers. The sacrifices we have made to abolish slavery in our own colonies, and our commercial
supremacy and naval power, have justified and enabled us to take this position. And, as we
shall presently show, the supremacy of the French in Madagascar would certainly involve a virtual
revival of the slave-trade.

It may also be objected by some that, as regards aggression upon foreign nations, we do not
ourselves come into court with clean hands. We must with shame admit the accusation. But, on
the other hand, we do not carry on religious persecution in the countries we govern; and, further,
we have restored the Transvaal, we have retired from Afghanistan, and, notwithstanding the
advocates of an "Imperialist" policy in Egypt, we are not going to retain the Nile Delta as
a British province. And, as was well remarked in the Daily News lately, "such an argument proves
a great deal too much. It would be fatal to the progress of public opinion as a moral agent
altogether, and might fix the mistaken policy of a particular epoch as the standard of national
ethics for all time."

What claim, then, has England to intervene in this dispute, and to offer mediation between
France and Madagascar?

(a) England has greatly aided Madagascar to attain its present position as a nation. Largely
owing to the help she gave to the enlightened Hova king, Radàma I., from 1817 to 1828, he was
enabled to establish his supremacy over most of the other tribes of the island, and, in place
of a number of petty turbulent chieftaincies, to form one strong central government, desirous
of progress, and able to put down intestine wars, as well as the export slave-trade of the
country. For several years a British agent, Mr. Hastie, lived at the Court of Radàma, exercising
a powerful influence for good over the king, and doing very much for the advancement of the
people. In later times, through English influence, and by the provisions of our treaty with
Madagascar, the import slave-trade has been stopped, and a large section of the slave population--those
of African birth, brought into the island by the Arab slaving dhows--has been set free (in
June,1877).

(b) England has done very much during the last sixty years to develop civilization and enlightenment
in Madagascar. The missionary workmen, sent out by the London Missionary Society from 1820
to 1835, introduced many of the useful arts--viz., improved methods of carpentry, iron-working,
and weaving, the processes of tanning, and several manufactures of chemicals, soap, lime-burning,
&c.; and they also constructed canals and reservoirs for rice-culture.

From 1862 to 1882 the same Society's builders have introduced the use of brick and stone construction,
have taught the processes of brick and tile manufacture and the preparation of slates, and
have erected numerous stone and brick churches, schools, and houses; and these arts have been
so readily learned by the people that the capital and other towns have been almost entirely
rebuilt within the last fifteen years with dwellings of European fashion. England has also
been the principal agent in the intellectual advance of the Malagasy; for, as already mentioned,
English missionaries were the first to reduce the native language to a grammatical system,
and to give the people their own tongue in a written form. They also prepared a considerable
number of books, and founded an extensive school system.[20] If we look at what England has
done for Madagascar, a far more plausible case might be made out--were we so disposed--for
"English claims" on the island, than any that France can produce.

(c) England has considerable political interests in preserving Madagascar free from French
control. These should not be overlooked, as the influence of the French in those seas is already
sufficiently strong. Not only are they established in the small islands of Ste. Marie and Nòsibé,
off Madagascar itself, but they have taken possession of two of the Comoro group, Mayotta and
Mohilla. Réunion is French; and although Mauritius and the Seychelles are under English government,
they are largely French in speech and sympathy. And it must be remembered that the first instalment
of territory which is now coveted includes five or six large gulfs, besides numerous inlets
and river mouths, and especially the Bay of Diego Suarez, one of the finest natural harbours,
and admirably adapted for a great naval station. The possession of these, and eventually of
the whole of the island, would seriously affect the balance of power in the south-west Indian
Ocean, making French influence preponderant in these seas, and in certain very possible political
contingencies would be a formidable menace to our South African colonies.

(d) We have also commercial interests in Madagascar which cannot be disregarded, because, although
the island does not yet contribute largely to the commerce of the world, it is a country of
great natural resources, and its united export and import trade, chiefly in English and American
hands, is already worth about a million annually. Our own share of this is fourfold that of
the French, and British subjects in Madagascar outnumber those of France in the proportion
of five to one; and our valuable colony of Mauritius derives a great part of its food-supply
from the great island.

But apart from the foregoing considerations, it is from no narrow jealousy that we maintain
that French preponderance in Madagascar would work disastrously for freedom and humanity in
that part of the world. We are not wholly free from blame ourselves with regard to the treatment
of the coolie population of Mauritius; but it must be remembered that, although that island
is English in government, its inhabitants are chiefly French in origin, and they retain a great
deal of that utter want of recognition of the rights of coloured people which seems inherent
in the French abroad. So that successive governors have been constantly thwarted by magistrates
and police in their efforts to obtain justice for the coolie immigrants. A Commission of Inquiry
in 1872, however, forced a number of reforms, and since then there has been little ground for
complaint. But in the neighbouring island of Réunion the treatment of the Hindu coolies has
been so bad that at length the Indian Government has refused to allow emigration thither any
longer. For some years past French trading vessels have been carrying off from the north-west
Madagascar coast hundreds of people for the Réunion plantations. Very lately a convention was
made with the Portuguese authorities at Mozambique to supply coloured labourers for Réunion,
and, doubtless, also with a view to sugar estates yet to be made in Madagascar--a traffic which
is the slave-trade in all but the name. The French flag is sullied by being allowed to be used
by slaving dhows--an iniquity owing to which our brave Captain Brownrigg met his death not
long ago. Is it any exaggeration to say that an increase of French influence in these seas
is one of sad omen for freedom?

And, further, a French protectorate over a part of the island would certainly work disastrously
for the progress of Madagascar itself. It has been already shown that during the present century
the country has been passing out of the condition of a collection of petty independent States
into that of one strong Kingdom, whose authority is gradually becoming more and more firmly
established over the whole island. And all hope of progress is bound up in the strengthening
and consolidation of the central Hova Government, with capable governors representing its authority
over the other provinces. But for many years past the French have depreciated and ridiculed
the Hova power; and except M. Guillain, who, in his "Documents sur la Partie Occidentale de
Madagascar," has written with due appreciation of the civilizing policy of Radàma I., there
is hardly any French writer but has spoken evil of the central government, simply because every
step taken towards the unification of the country makes their own projects less feasible. French
policy is, therefore, to stir up the outlying tribes, where the Hova authority is still weak,
to discontent and rebellion, and so cause internecine war, in which France will come in and
offer "protection" to all rebels. Truly a noble "mission" for a great and enlightened European
nation!

After acknowledging again and again the sovereign at Antanànarìvo as "Queen of Madagascar,"
the French papers have lately begun to style Her Majesty "Queen of the Hovas," as if there
were not a dozen other tribes over whom even the French have never disputed her authority;
while they write as if the Sàkalàva formed an independent State, with whom they had a perfect
right to conclude treaties. More than this: after making treaties with at least two sovereigns
of Madagascar, accrediting consuls to them and receiving consuls appointed by them, a portion
of the French press has just discovered that the Malagasy are "a barbarous people," with whom
it would be derogatory to France to meet on equal terms.[21] Let us see what this barbarous
Malagasy Government has been doing during the last few years:--

i. It has put an end to idolatry in the central and other provinces, and with it a number of
cruel and foolish superstitions, together with the use of the Tangéna poison-ordeal,[22] infanticide,
polygamy, and the unrestricted power of divorce.

ii. It has codified, revised, and printed its laws, abolishing capital punishment (formerly
carried out in many cruel forms), except for the crimes of treason and murder.

iii. It has set free a large portion of the slave population, indeed all African slaves brought
from beyond the seas, and has passed laws by which no Malagasy can any longer be reduced to
slavery for debt or for political offences.

iv. It has largely limited the old oppressive feudal system of the country, and has formed
a kind of responsible Ministry, with departments of foreign affairs, war, justice, revenue,
trade, schools, &c.

v. It has passed laws for compulsory education throughout the central provinces, by which the
children in that part of the island are now being educated.

vi. It has begun to remodel its army, putting it on a basis of short service, to which all
classes are liable, so as to consolidate its power over the outlying districts, and bring all
the island under the action of the just and humane laws already described.

vii. It has made the planting of the poppy illegal, subjecting the offender to a very heavy fine.

viii. It has passed several laws forbidding the manufacture and importation of ardent spirits
into Imérina, and is anxious for powers in the treaties now to be revised to levy a much heavier
duty at the ports.

We need not ask if these are the acts of a barbarous nation, or whether it would be for the
interests of humanity and civilization and progress if the disorderly elements which still
remain in the country should be encouraged by foreign interference to break away from the control
they have so long acknowledged. It is very doubtful whether any European nation has made similar
progress in such a short period as has this Hova Government of Madagascar.

It may also be remarked that although it has also been the object of the French to pose as
the friends of the Sàkalàva, whom they represent as down-trodden, it is a simple matter of
fact that for many years past these people have been in peaceable subjection to the Hova authority.
The system of government allows the local chiefs to retain a good deal of their former influence
so long as the suzerainty of the Queen at Antanànarìvo is acknowledged. And a recent traveller
through this north-west district, the Rev. W. C. Pickersgill, testifies that on inquiring of
every tribe as to whom they paid allegiance, the invariable reply was, "To Ranavàlo-manjàka,
Queen of Madagascar." It is indeed extremely probable that, in counting upon the support of
these north-westerly tribes against the central government, the French are reckoning without
their host, and will find enemies where they expect allies.[23] In fact, the incident which
was one of the chief pretexts for the revival of these long-dormant claims--the hoisting of
the Queen's flag at two places--really shows how well disposed the people are to the Hova Government,
and how they look to the Queen for justice.

It will perhaps be asked, Have we any diplomatic standing-ground for friendly intervention
on behalf of the Malagasy? I think there are at least two considerations which--altogether
apart from our commercial and political interests in the freedom of the country, and what we
have done for it in various ways--give us a right to speak in this question. One is, that there
has for many years past been an understanding between the Governments of France and England
that neither would take action with regard to Madagascar without previous consultation with
each other.[24] We are then surely entitled to speak if the independence of the island is threatened.
Another reason is, that we are to a great extent pledged to give the Hova Government some support
by the words spoken by our Special Envoy to the Queen Ranavàlona last year. Vice-Admiral Gore-Jones
then repeated the assurance of the understanding above-mentioned, and encouraged the Hova Government
to consolidate their authority on the west coast, and, in fact, his language stimulated them
to take that action there which the French have made a pretext for their present interference.[25]

In taking such a line of action England seeks no selfish ends. We do not covet a foot of Madagascar
territory; we ask no exclusive privileges; but I do maintain that what we have done for Madagascar,
and the part we have taken in her development and advancement, gives us a claim and imposes
on us an obligation to stand forward on her behalf against those who would break her unity
and consequently her progress. The French will have no easy task to conquer the country if
they persist in their demands; the Malagasy will not yield except to overwhelming force, and
it will prove a war bringing heavy cost and little honour to France.

May I not appeal to all right-minded and generous Frenchmen that their influence should also
be in the direction of preserving the freedom of this nation?--one of the few dark peoples
who have shown an unusual receptivity for civilization and Christianity, who have already advanced
themselves so much, and who will still, if left undisturbed, become one united and enlightened
nation.

It will be to the lasting disgrace of France if she stirs up aggressive war, and so throws
back indefinitely all the remarkable progress made by the Malagasy during the past few years;
and it will be hardly less to our own discredit if we, an insular nation, jealous of the inviolability
of our own island, show no practical sympathy with another insular people, and do not use every
means that can be employed to preserve to Madagascar its independence and its liberties.

   JAMES SIBREE, Jun.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] The single act which led to the revival of these long-forgotten claims upon the north-west
coast, was the hoisting of the Queen's flag by two native Sàkalàva chieftains in their villages.
These were hauled down, and carried away in a French gun-boat, and the flag-staves cut up.

[12] This last claim must be preferred either in perfect ignorance of what the 1868 treaty
really is, or as an attempt to throw dust in the eyes of the newspaper-reading public.

[13] It is true that during these seventy years various edicts claiming the country we issued
by Louis XIV.; but as the French during all that time did not attempt to occupy a single foot
of territory in Madagascar, these grandiloquent proclamations can hardly be considered as of
much value. As has been remarked, French pretensions were greatest when their actual authority
was least.

[14] See "Précis sur les Etablissements Français formés à Madagascar." Paris, 1836, p.4.

[15] For fuller details as to the character of French settlements in Madagascar, their gross
mismanagement and bad treatment of the people, see Statement of the Madagascar Committee; and
Souvenirs de Madagascar, par M. le Dr. H. Lacaze: Paris, 1881, p. xviii.

[16] The italics are my own.

[17] See also letter of Bishop Ryan, late of Mauritius, Daily News, Dec. 16.

[18] See Daily News, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1; La Liberté, Nov. 29, and Le Parlement of same date.
Both these French journals speak of an "Act by which the Tanànarivo Government cancelled the
Treaty of 1868" (Le Parlement), and of its being "annulled by Queen Ranavàlona of her own authority"
(La Liberté). It is only necessary to say that no such "Act" ever had any existence, save in
the fertile brains of French journalists, and it is now brought forward apparently with a view
to excite animosity towards the Malagasy in the minds of their readers.

[19] E.g., The Manchester Guardian, Dec. 1st., 5th., and 6th.

[20] Almost all Malagasy words for military tactics and rank are of English origin, so are
many of the words used for building operations, and the influence of England is also shown
by the fact that almost all the words connected with education and literature are from us,
such as school, class, lesson, pen, copybook, pencil, slate, book, gazette, press, print, proof,
capital, period, &c., grammar, geography, addition, &c.

[21] See Le Parlement, Dec. 15, and other French papers.

[22] Among the many unfair statements of the Parisian press is an article in Le Rappel, of
Oct. 29, copied by many other papers, in which this Tangéna ordeal is described as if it was
now a practice of the Malagasy, the intention being, of course, to lead its readers to look
upon them as still barbarous; the fact being that its use has been obsolete ever since 1865
(Art. XVIII. of English Treaty), and its practice is a capital offence, as a form of treason.
The Malagasy Envoys are represented as saying that their Supreme Court often condemned criminals
to death by its use!

[23] See Tract No. II. of the Madagascar Committee.

[24] See Lord Granville's speech in reply to the address of the Madagascar Committee, Nov. 28.

[25] The Admiral, so it is reported on good authority, congratulated the Queen and her Government
on having solved the question of Madagascar by showing that the Hova could govern it. He also
said that France and England were in perfect accord on this point, and on the wisdom of recognizing
Queen Ranavàlona as sovereign of the whole island. See Daily News, Dec. 14. This will no doubt
be confirmed by the publication of the official report which has been asked for by Mr. G. Palmer,
M.P.

THE RELIGIOUS FUTURE OF THE WORLD.

PART THE FIRST.

I.

I suppose there are few students of man and of society to whom the present religious condition
and apparent religious prospect of the world can seem very satisfactory. If there is any lesson
clear from history it is this; that, in every age religion has been the main stay both of private
life and of the public order,--"the substance of humanity," as Quinet well expresses it, "whence
issue, as by so many necessary consequences, political institutions, the arts, poetry, philosophy,
and, up to a certain point, even the sequence of events."[26] The existing civilization of
Europe and America--I use the word civilization in its highest and widest sense, and mean by
it especially the laws, traditions, beliefs, and habits of thought and action, whereby individual
family and social life is governed--is mainly the work of Christianity. The races which inhabit
the vast Asiatic Continent are what they are chiefly from the influence of Buddhism and Mohammedanism,
of the Brahminical, Confucian, and Taosean systems. In the fetichism of the rude tribes of
Africa, still in the state of the childhood of humanity, we have what has been called the parler
enfantin of religion:--it is that rude and unformed speech, as of spiritual babes and sucklings,
which principally makes them to differ from the anthropoid apes of their tropical forests:
"un peuple est compté pour quelque chose le jour où il s'elève a la pensée de Dieu."[27] But
the spirit of the age is unquestionably hostile to all these creeds from the highest to the
lowest. In Europe there is a movement--of its breadth and strength I shall say more presently--the
irreconcilable hostility of which to "all religion and all religiosity," to use the words of
the late M. Louis Blanc, is written on its front. Thought is the most contagious thing in the
world, and in these days pain unchanged, but with no firm ground of faith, no "hope both sure
and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the vail," no worthy object of desire whereby
man may erect himself above himself, whence he may derive an indefectible rule of conduct,
a constraining incentive to self-sacrifice, an adequate motive for patient endurance,--such
is the vision of the coming time, as it presents itself to many of the most thoughtful and
competent observers.

II.

