Sir Gilbert Gerard (Vol. v., pp. 511. 571.; Vol. vi., p. 441.).--Sir Gilbert Gerard, Master
of the Rolls temp. Queen Elizabeth, died on the 4th of February, and was interred on the 6th
of March, 1592 (Old Style), in Ashley Church, in Staffordshire. The style most probably led
Dugdale into the error noticed by your learned correspondent MR. FOSS, in his last communication
to "N. & Q.," relative to the probate of Sir Gilbert Gerard's will. I beg to forward you an
extract taken from the Parish Register of Ashley, which, {609} it will be seen, not only records
the burial, but likewise, rather unusually, the precise day of his death, a little more than
a month intervening between the two events, which possibly might be accounted for. On a careful
examination of Sir Gilbert's tomb, I did not find (which agrees with Dugdale) any epitaph thereon,--a
somewhat remarkable circumstance, inasmuch as Sir Thomas Gerard (Sir Gilbert Gerard's eldest
son and heir, who was created Baron Gerard, of Gerard's Bromley, where his father had built
a splendid mansion, a view of which is in Plot's History of Staffordshire, page 103., not a
vestige of which beyond the gateway is now standing) is said by the Staffordshire historians
to have erected a monument to the memory of his father at great expense; a drawing of which
is given by Garner in his Natural History of Staffordshire, p. 120., with a copious description
of the tomb.

    Extract. Annus 1592.

    "4 Die Februarii mortuus est Gilbert Gerard, Miles, et Custos
    Rotulorium Serenissimæ Reginæ Elizabethæ; et sepultus 6 die Martii
    sequentis."

T. W. JONES.

Nantwich.

Tombstone in Churchyard.--Arms: Battle-axe (Vol. vii., pp. 331. 390. 407. 560.).--It appears
that I may conclude that 1600 is the oldest legible date on a tombstone inscription. That of
1601 is cut in relief round the edge of a long free-stone slab, raised on a course of two or
three bricks, and is in Henllan, near Denbigh.

The battle-axes (three in fesse) are on the wall over it. I am obliged to J. D. S.; but in
both my cases the arms appear as connected with Welsh families; but it is the above that I
want to identify.

A. C.

A correspondent asks for instances of dates on tombstones earlier than 1601. I know of one,
at Moore Church in the county of Meath, within five miles of Drogheda. It is as early as 1597;
the letters, instead of being sunk, are in relief. I subjoin a copy of the inscription:

 "HERE VNDER LIETH THE
  BODY OF DAME IENET
  SARSFELD, LADY DOWAGER
  OF DONSANY, WHO DIED THE
  XXII OF FEBRVARY, AN. DNI.
          1597."

M. E.

Dublin.

Thomas Gage (Vol. vi., p. 291.).--Thomas Gage (formerly a Dominican friar, and author of the
English American, 1648--as I saw the work entitled--subsequently a Puritan preacher), is, I
imagine, identical with Thomas Gage, minister of the Gospel at Deal in Kent, whom your correspondent
A. B. R. inquires about, p. 291. If so, he became chaplain to Lord Fairfax, and, according
to Macaulay, was not unlikely to have married some dependent connexion of that family.

E. C. G.

Marriage in High Life (Vol. vi., p. 359.).--I have often heard a similar story, from an old
relation of mine with whom I lived when a girl; and she had heard it from her father,--which
would carry the time of its occurrence back to the date 1740, named by your correspondent.
My informant's father knew the parties, and I have repeatedly heard the name of the bridegroom;
but whether Wilbraham or Swetenham, I do not now remember. Both Wilbrahams and Swetenhams are
old Cheshire families, and have intermarried. I am almost certain a Wilbraham was the hero
of the story. I have had the house pointed out to me where he lived, and it was not above a
couple of hours' drive from Chester, whither we were going in the old-fashioned way of carriage-conveyance.
I am sure he was not a peer, though, if a Wilbraham, he might be related to the late (first)
Lord Skelmersdale.

There is one other little circumstance, which the reference to those former times has reminded
me of,--the pronunciation of the word obliged (as in the Prologue to the Satires, where Pope says:

             "By flatterers besieged,
  And so obliging that he ne'er obliged),

which the old lady that I have referred to, maintained was the proper pronunciation for obleege,
to confer a favour; whereas the harsher sound, to oblige, was discriminatively reserved for
the equivalent, to compel. She was a well-educated woman, and had associated with the good
society of London in her youth; and she always complained of the want of taste and judgment
shown by the younger generation, in pronouncing the same word, with two distinct meanings,
alike in both cases.

E. C. G.

Eulenspiegel (Vol. vii., p. 557.).--The German verses under MR. CAMPKIN'S portrait of Eulenspiegel,
rendered into English prose, mean:

 "Look here at Eulenspiegel: his portrait makes thee laugh.
  What wouldst thou do, if thou couldst see the jester himself?
  But Till is a picture and mirror of this world.
  He left many a brother behind. We are great fools
  In thinking that we are the greatest sages:
  Therefore laugh at thyself, as this sheet represents thyself."

From the orthography, I do not think that the lines are much anterior to the beginning of the
eighteenth century. The names of the artist will be the safest guides for discovering the date
of the print.

[alpha]. {610}

"Wanderings of Memory" (Vol. vii., p. 527.).--The author of Wanderings of Memory, published
by subscription at Lincoln in 1815, 12mo. pp. 151., was a young man "in his apprenticeship,"
of the name of A. G. Jewitt. He dedicates the book to his father, Mr. Arthur Jewitt, Kimberworth
School, Yorkshire. Nearly the whole of the embellishments were engraved by a younger brother
of the author, "who at the time had not attained his sixteenth year, and who had not the opportunity
of profiting by any regular instructions."

There are some good lines in the poem, but not enough to rescue it from that fate which poetical
mediocrity is irreversibly doomed to.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

The reputation which Mr. Finlay has acquired by his History of Greece, and his Greece under
the Romans, will unquestionably be increased by his newly published History of the Byzantine
Empire from DCCXVI. to MLVII. The subject is one of great interest to the scholar; and the
manner in which Mr. Finlay has traced the progress of the eastern Roman empire through an eventful
period of three centuries and a half, and while doing so enriched his pages with constant reference
to the original historians, has certainly enabled him to accomplish the object which he has
avowedly had in view, namely, that of making his work serve not only as a popular history,
but also as an index for scholars who may be more familiar with classic literature than with
the Byzantine writers.

We understand that Her Majesty and Prince Albert, with that appreciation of the beautiful and
the useful for which they are distinguished, have shown their opinion of the value of photography
by becoming the Patrons of the Photographic Society.

The Camden Society is about to put to press a work which will be of great value to our topographical
writers, as well as to historians generally, namely, The Extent of the Estates of the Hospitalers
in England, taken under the direction of Prior Philip de Thame, A.D. 1338. The original MS.
is at Malta; and though the transcript of it was made by a most competent hand, we have reason
to believe that our correspondent at La Valetta (W. W.) would be doing good service both to
the Society and to the world of letters, and one which would be most acceptable to the Transcriber,
if he could find it convenient to revise the proof sheets with the original document.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--Cyclopædia Bibliographica, a Library Manual of Theological and General Literature.
VI. The Relapse.--Messrs. Longman have added to their Traveller's Library (in two parts) an
interesting and cleverly written account of our Coal Mines, and those who live in them, which
gives a graphic picture of the places and persons to whom we are all for so many months indebted
for our greatest comfort.--Mr. Bohn continues his good work of supplying excellent books at
moderate prices. We are this month indebted to him for publishing in his Scientific Library
the third volume of Miss Ross' excellent translation of Humboldt's Personal Narrative of his
Travels to the Equinoctial Regions of America, which is enriched with a very copious index.
In his Classical Library he has given us Translations of Terence and Phædrus; and in his Antiquarian
Library, the second volume of what, in spite of the laches pointed out by one of our correspondents,
we must pronounce a most useful work for the mere English reader, the second volume of Mr.
Riley's translation of Roger de Hoveden's Annals of English History, which completes the work.
Probably, however, the volume which Mr. Bohn has just published in his Standard Library is
the one which will excite most interest. It is issued as a continuation of Coxe's History of
the House of Austria, and consists (for the most part) of a translation of Count Hartig's Genesis
of the Revolution in Austria.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

LOMBARDI (PETRI) SENTENTIARUM, Lib. IV. Any good edition.

D. A. A. will find an answer to his Query, "Was St. Patrick ever in Ireland?" in our 5th Vol.
p. 561., from the pen of that accomplished scholar, the REV. DR. ROCK.

We have to apologise to many of our Shakspearian correspondents for the delay which has taken
place in the insertion of their communications. A. E. B. will perceive that we have complied
with his request in substituting for immediate publication the paper he sent this week, instead
of one by him which has been in type for two or three weeks.

The coincident communications from two correspondents on Falstaff's death,--MR. SINGER's valuable
emendation of a passage in Romeo and Juliet,--and MR. BLINK's and MR. RAWLINSON's respective
communications, shall have our earliest attention.

We are also compelled to postpone our usual replies to Photographic Querists.

MR. MERRITT's Photographic specimens are very satisfactory. There can be no doubt that, with
perseverance, he will accomplish everything that can be desired in this useful and pleasing art.

       *       *       *       *       *

CITY OF LONDON LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, 2. Royal Exchange Buildings, London.

Subscribed Capital, a Quarter of a Million.

          Trustees.
  Mr. Commissioner West, Leeds.
  The Hon. W. F. Campbell, Stratheden House.
  John Thomas, Esq., Bishop's Stortford.

This Society embraces every advantage of existing Life Offices, viz. the Mutual System without
its risks or liabilities; the Proprietary, with its security, simplicity, and economy; the
Accumulative System, introduced by this Society, uniting life with the convenience of a deposit
bank; Self-Protecting Policies, also introduced by this Society, embracing by one policy and
one rate of premium a Life Assurance, an Endowment, and a Deferred Annuity. No forfeiture.
Loans with commensurate Assurances. Bonus recently declared, 20 per Cent.

EDW. FRED. LEEKS, Secretary. {612}

       *       *       *       *       *

This day is published, in 8vo. pp. 542, price 12s. 6d.

HISTORY OF THE BYZANTINE EMPIRE, from DCCXVI. to MLVII. By GEORGE FINLAY, ESQ., Honorary Member
of the Royal Society of Literature.

