To those who are well acquainted with ancient popular poetry the adventure of King Edward and
Robin Hood will seem the least eligible portion of this circle of story for the foundation
of an historical theory. The ballad of King Edward and Robin Hood is but one version of an
extremely multiform legend, of which the tales of "King Edward and the Shepherd" and "King
Edward and the Hermit" are other specimens; and any one who will take the trouble to examine
will be convinced that all these stories are one and the same thing, the personages being varied
for the sake of novelty, and the name of a recent or of the reigning monarch substituted in
successive ages for that of a predecessor.

Rejecting, then, as nugatory, every attempt to assign Robin Hood a definite position in history,
what view shall we adopt? Are all these traditions absolute fictions, and is he himself a pure
creation of the imagination? Might not the ballads under consideration have a basis in the
exploits of a real person, living in the forests, somewhere and at some time? Or, denying individual
existence to Robin Hood, and particular truth to the adventures ascribed to him, may we not
regard him as the ideal of the outlaw class, a class so numerous in all the countries of Europe
in the Middle Ages? We are perfectly contented to form no opinion upon the subject; but if
compelled to express one, we should say that this last supposition (which is no novelty) possessed
decidedly more likelihood than any other. Its plausibility will be confirmed by attending to
the apparent signification of the name Robin Hood. The natural refuge and stronghold of the
outlaw was the woods. Hence he is termed by Latin writers silvatious, by the Normans forestier.
The Anglo-Saxon robber or highwayman is called a woodrover wealdgenga, and the Norse word for
outlaw is exactly equivalent.[11] It has often been suggested that Robin Hood is a corruption,
or dialectic form, of Robin of the Wood; and when we remember that wood is pronounced hood
in some parts of England,[12] (as whoop is pronounced hoop everywhere,) and that the outlaw
bears in so many languages a name descriptive of his habitation, this notion will not seem
an idle fancy.

Various circumstances, however, have disposed writers of learning to look farther for a solution
of the question before us. Mr. Wright propounds an hypothesis that Robin Hood "one among the
personages of the early mythology of the Teutonic peoples"; and a German scholar,[13] in an
exceedingly interesting article which throws much light on the history of English sports, has
endeavored to show specifically that he is in name and substance one with the god Woden. The
arguments by which these views are supported, though in their present shape very far from convincing,
are entitled to a respectful consideration.

The most important of these arguments are those which are based on the peculiar connection
between Robin Hood and the month of May. Mr. Wright has justly remarked, that either an express
mention of this month, or a vivid description of the season, in the older ballads, shows that
the feats of the hero were generally performed during this part of the year. Thus, the adventure
of "Robin Hood and the Monk" befell on "a morning of May." "Robin Hood and the Potter" and
"Robin Hood and Guy of Gisborne" begin, like "Robin Hood and the Monk," with a description
of the season when leaves are long, blossoms are shooting, and the small birds are singing;
and this season, though called summer, is at the same time spoken of as May in "Robin Hood
and the Monk," which, from the description there given, it needs must be. The liberation of
Cloudesly by Adam Bel and Clym of the Clough is also achieved "on a merry morning of May."

Robin Hood is, moreover, intimately associated with the month of May through the games which
were celebrated at that time of the year. The history of these games is unfortunately very
defective, and hardly extends farther back than the beginning of the sixteenth century. By
that time their primitive character seems to have been corrupted, or at least their significance
was so far forgotten, that distinct pastimes and ceremonials were capriciously intermixed.
At the beginning of the sixteenth century the May sports in vogue were, besides a contest of
archery, four pageants,--the Kingham, or election of a Lord and Lady of the May, otherwise
called Summer King and Queen, the Morris-Dance, the Hobby-Horse, and the "Robin Hood." Though
these pageants were diverse in their origin, they had, at the epoch of which we write, begun
to be confounded; and the Morris exhibited a tendency to absorb and blend them all, as, from
its character, being a procession interspersed with dancing, it easily might do. We shall hardly
find the Morris pure and simple in the English May-game; but from a comparison of the two earliest
representations which we have of this sport, the Flemish print given by Douce in his "Illustrations
of Shakspeare," and Tollett's celebrated painted window, (described in Johnson and Steevens's
Shakspeare,) we may form an idea of what was essential and what adventitious in the English
spectacle. The Lady is evidently the central personage in both. She is, we presume, the same
as the Queen of May, who is the oldest of all the characters in the May games, and the apparent
successor to the Goddess of Spring in the Roman Floralia. In the English Morris she is called
simply The Lady, or more frequently Maid Marian, a name which, to our apprehension, means Lady
of the May, and nothing more.[14] A fool and a taborer seem also to have been indispensable;
but the other dancers had neither names nor peculiar offices, and were unlimited in number.
The Morris, then, though it lost in allegorical significance, would gain considerably in spirit
and variety by combining with the other shows. Was it not natural, therefore, and in fact inevitable,
that the old favorites of the populace, Robin Hood, Friar Tuck, and Little John, should in
the course of time displace three of the anonymous performers in the show? This they had pretty
effectually done at the beginning of the sixteenth century; and the Lady, who had accepted
the more precise designation of Maid Marian, was after that generally regarded as the consort
of Robin Hood, though she sometimes appeared in the Morris without him. In like manner, the
Hobby-Horse was quite early adopted into the Morris, of which it formed no original part, and
at last even a Dragon was annexed to the company. Under these circumstances we cannot be surprised
to find the principal performers in the May pageants passing the one into the other,--to find
the May King, whose occupation was gone when the gallant outlaw had supplanted him in the favor
of the Lady, assuming the part of the Hobby-Horse,[15] Robin Hood usurping the title of King
of the May,[16] and the Hobby-Horse entering into a contest with the Dragon, as St. George.

We feel obliged to regard this interchange of functions among the characters in the English
May-pageants as fortuitous, notwithstanding the coincidence of the May King sometimes appearing
on horseback in Germany, and notwithstanding our conviction that Kuhn is right in maintaining
that the May King, the Hobby-Horse, and the Dragon-Slayer are symbols of one mythical idea.
This idea we are compelled by want of space barely to state, with the certainty of doing injustice
to the learning and ingenuity with which the author has supported his views. Kuhn has shown
it to be extremely probable, first, that the Christmas games, which both in Germany and England
have a close resemblance to those of Spring, are to be considered as a prelude to the May sports,
and that they both originally symbolized the victory of Summer over Winter,[17] which, beginning
at the winter solstice, is completed in the second month of spring; secondly, that the conquering
Summer is represented by the May King, or by the Hobby-Horse (as also by the Dragon-Slayer,
whether St. George, Siegfried, Apollo, or the Sanskrit Indras); and thirdly, that the Hobby-Horse
in particular represents the god Woden, who, as well as Mars [18] among the Romans, is the
god at once of Spring and of Victory.

The essential point, all this being admitted, is now to establish the identity of Robin Hood
and the Hobby-Horse. This we think we have shown cannot be done by reasoning founded on the
early history of the games under consideration. Kuhn relies principally upon two modern accounts
of Christmas pageants. In one of these pageants there is introduced a man on horseback, who
carries in his hands a bow and arrows. The other furnishes nothing peculiar except a name:
the ceremony is called a hoodening, and the hobby-horse a hooden. In the rider with bow and
arrows Kuhn sees Robin Hood and the Hobby-Horse, and in the name hooden (which is explained
by the authority he quotes to mean wooden) he discovers a provincial form of wooden, which
connects the outlaw and the divinity.[19] It will be generally agreed that these slender premises
are totally inadequate to support the weighty conclusion that is rested upon them.

Why the adventures of Robin Hood should be specially assigned, as they are in the old ballads,
to the month of May, remains unexplained. We have no exquisite reason to offer, but we may
perhaps find reason good enough in the delicious stanzas with which some of these ballads begin.

    "In summer when the shawès be sheen,
       And leavès be large and long,
     It is full merry in fair forèst
       To hear the fowlès song;
     To see the deer draw to the dale,
       And leave the hillès hee,
     And shadow them in the leavès green
       Under the green-wood tree."

The poetical character of the season affords all the explanation that is required.

Nor need the occurrence of exhibitions of archery and of the Robin Hood plays and pageants,
at this time of the year, occasion any difficulty. Repeated statutes, from the thirteenth to
the sixteenth century, enjoined practice with the bow, and ordered that the leisure time of
holidays should be employed for this purpose. Under Henry the Eighth the custom was still kept
up, and those who partook in this exercise often gave it a spirit by assuming the style and
character of Robin Hood and his associates. In like manner the society of archers in Elizabeth's
time took the name of Arthur and his Knights; all which was very natural then, and would be
now. None of all the merrymakings in merry England surpassed the May festival. The return of
the sun stimulated the populace to the accumulation of all sorts of amusements. A Play of Robin
Hood was considered "very proper for a May-game"; but if Robin Hood was peculiarly prominent
in these entertainments, the obvious reason would appear to be that he was the hero of that
loved green-wood to which all the world resorted, when the cold obstruction of winter was broken
up, "to do observance for a morn of May."

We do not, therefore, attribute much value to the theory of Mr. Wright, that the May festival
was, in its earliest form, "a religious celebration, though, like such festivals in general,
it possessed a double character, that of a religious ceremony, and of an opportunity for the
performance of warlike games; that, at such festivals, the songs would take the character of
the amusements on the occasion, and would most likely celebrate warlike deeds,--perhaps the
myths of the patron whom superstition supposed to preside over them; that, as the character
of the exercises changed, the attributes of the patron would change also, and he who was once
celebrated as working wonders with his good axe or his elf-made sword might afterwards assume
the character of a skilful bowman; that the scene of his actions would likewise change, and
the person whose weapons were the bane of dragons and giants, who sought them in the wildernesses
they infested, might become the enemy only of the sheriff and his officers, under the 'grene-wode
lefe.'"  It is unnecessary to point out that the language we have quoted contains, beyond the
statement that warlike exercises were anciently combined with religious rites, a very slightly
founded surmise, and nothing more.

Another circumstance, which weighs much with Mr. Wright, goes but a very little way with us
in demonstrating the mythological character of Robin Hood. This is the frequency with which
his name is attached to mounds, wells, and stones, such as in the popular creed are connected
with fairies, dwarfs, or giants. There is scarcely a county in England which does not possess
some monument of this description. "Cairns on Blackdown in Somersetshire, and barrows near
to Whitby in Yorkshire and Ludlow in Shropshire, are termed Robin Hood's pricks or butts; lofty
natural eminences in Gloucestershire and Derbyshire are Robin Hood's hills; a huge rock near
Matlock is Robin Hood's Tor; ancient boundary-stones, as in Lincolnshire, are Robin Hood's
crosses; a presumed loggan, or rocking-stone, in Yorkshire, is Robin Hood's penny-stone; a
fountain near Nottingham, another between Doncaster and Wakefield, and one in Lancashire, are
Robin Hood's wells; a cave in Nottinghamshire is his stable; a rude natural rock in Hope Dale
is his chair; a chasm at Chatsworth is his leap; Blackstone Edge, in Lancashire, is his bed."[20]
In fact, his name bids fair to overrun every remarkable object of the sort which has not been
already appropriated to King Arthur or the Devil; with the latter of whom, at least, it is
presumed, that, however ancient, he will not dispute precedence.

"The legends of the peasantry," quoth Mr. Wright, "are the shadows of a very remote antiquity."
This proposition, thus broadly stated, we deny. Nothing is more deceptive than popular legends;
and the "legends" we speak of, if they are to bear that name, have no claim to antiquity at
all. They do not go beyond the ballads. They are palpably of subsequent and comparatively recent
origin. It was absolutely impossible that they should arise while Robin Hood was a living reality
to the people. The archer of Sherwood who could barely stand King Edward's buffet, and was
felled by the Potter, was no man to be playing with rocking-stones. This trick of naming must
have begun in the decline of his fame; for there was a time when his popularity drooped, and
his existence was just not doubted,--not elaborately maintained by learned historians, and
antiquarians deeply read in the Public Records. And what do these names prove? The vulgar passion
for bestowing them is notorious and universal. We Americans are too young to be well provided
with heroes that might serve this purpose. We have no imaginative peasantry to invent legends,
no ignorant peasantry to believe them. But we have the good fortune to possess the Devil in
common with the rest of the world; and we take it upon us to say, that there is not a mountain
district in the land, which has been opened to summer travellers, where a "Devil's Bridge,"
a "Devil's Punch-bowl," or some object with the like designation, will not be pointed out.[21]

We have taken no notice of the later fortunes of Robin Hood in his true and original character
of a hero of romance. Towards the end of the sixteenth century Anthony Munday attempted to
revive the decaying popularity of this king of good fellows, who had won all his honors as
a simple yeoman, by representing him in the play of "The Downfall of Robert, Earl of Huntington"
as a nobleman in disguise, outlawed by the machinations of his steward. This pleasing and successful
drama is Robin's sole patent to that title of Earl of Huntington, in confirmation of which
Dr. Stukeley fabricated a pedigree that transcends even the absurdities of heraldry, and some
unknown forger an epitaph beneath the skill of a Chatterton. Those who desire a full acquaintance
with the fabulous history of Robin Hood will seek it in the well-known volumes of Ritson, or
in those of his recent editor, Gutch, who does not make up by superior discrimination for his
inferiority in other respects to that industrious antiquary.

[Footnote 1: A writer in the Edinburgh Review (July, 1847, p. 134) has cited an allusion to
Robin Hood, of a date intermediate between the passages from Wyntown and the one about to be
cited from Bower. In the year 1439, a petition was presented to Parliament against one Piers
Venables of Aston, in Derbyshire, "who having no liflode, ne sufficeante of goodes, gadered
and assembled unto him many misdoers, beynge of his clothynge, and, in manere of insurrection,
wente into the wodes in that countrie, like as it hadde be Robyn Hude and his meyne."--Rot.
Thierry was anticipated in his theory by Barry, in a dissertation cited by Mr. Wright in his
Essays: Thèse de Littérature sur les Vicissitudes et les Transformations du Cycle populaire
de Robin Hood. Paris, 1832.]

[Footnote 4: London, and Westminster Review, vol. xxxiii. p. 424.]

[Footnote 5: No 4. The Ballad Hero, Robin Hood. June, 1852.]

[Footnote 6: Hunter, pp. 28, 35-38]

[Footnote 7: Mr. Hunter thinks it necessary to prove that it was formerly a usage in England
to celebrate real events in popular song. We submit that it has been still more customary to
celebrate them in history, when they were of public importance. The case of private and domestic
stories is different.]

[Footnote 8: Most remarkable of all would this be, should we adopt the views of Mr. Hunter,
because we know, from the incidental testimony of Piers Ploughman, that only forty years after
the date fixed upon for the outlaw's submission "rhymes of Robin Hood" were in the mouth of
every tavern lounger; and yet no chronicler can spare him a word.]

[Footnote 9: Matthew Paris, London, 1640, p. 1002]

[Footnote 10: Mr. Hunter had previously instituted a similar argument in the case of Adam Bell,
and doubtless the reasoning might be extended to Will Scathlock and Little John. With a little
more rummaging of old account-books we shall be enabled to "comprehend all vagrom men." It
is a pity that the Sheriff of Nottingham could not have availed himself of the services of
our "detective."]

[Footnote 11: See Wright's Essays, ii. 207. "The name of Witikind, the famous opponent of Charlemagne,
who always fled before his sight, concealed himself in the forests, and returned again in his
absence, is no more than uitu chint, in Old High Dutch, and signifies the son of the wood,
an appellation which he could never have received at his birth, since it denotes an exile or
outlaw. Indeed, the name Witikind, though such a person seems to have existed, appears to be
the representative of all the defenders of his country against the invaders."]

[Footnote 12: Thus, in Kent, the Hobby-Horse is called hooden, i.e. wooden. It is curious that
Orlando, in As You Like It, (who represents the outlaw Gamelyn in the Tale of Gamelyn, a tale
which clearly belongs to the cycle of Robin Hood,) should be the son of Sir Rowland de Bois.
Robin de Bois (says a writer in Notes and Queries, vi. 597) occurs in one of Sue's novels "as
a well-known mythical character, whose name is employed by French mothers to frighten their
children."]

