    "If three loaves instead of two could be got for 2s., in
    consequence of a repeal of the Corn-laws, another consequence
    would be, that the workman's 2s. would be reduced to 1s. 4d.,
    which would leave matters, as far as he was concerned, just
    as they were!!"[33]

    [33] Authentic Discussions on the Corn-law, (Ridgway, 1839,)
    p. 86.

Hear a straightforward manufacturer--Mr Muntz, M.P.--in the debate on the 17th May last:--

    "If the Corn-laws were repealed, the benefit which the
    manufacturer expected was, that he could produce at a lower
    price; and this he could do only by reducing wages to the
    continental level!!"

If the above fail to open the eyes of the duped workmen of this country, what will succeed
in doing so? Let us conclude this portion of our subject--disgusting enough, but necessary
to expose imposture--with the following tabular view, &c., of the gross contradiction of the
men, whom we wish to hold up to universal and deserved contempt, on even the most vital points
of the controversy in which they are engaged; and then let our readers say whether any thing
proceeding from such a quarter is worthy of notice:--

       *       *       *       *       *

The League Oracle says--

1. "If we have free trade, the landlords' rents will fall 100 per cent."--(League Circular,
No. 15. p. 3.)

2. "Provisions will fall one-third."--(Ib. No. 34, p. 4.)

"The Corn-laws makes the labourer pay double the price for his food."--(Ib. No. 15.)

3. "The Corn-law compels us to pay three times the value for a loaf of bread."--(Ib. No. 13.)

"If the Corn-laws were abolished, the working man WOULD SAVE 31/2d. UPON EVERY LOAF OF BREAD."--(Ib.
No. 75.)

"As a consequence of the repeal of the Corn-laws, we promise cheaper food, and our hand-loom
weavers would get double the rate of wages!"--(Ib. No. 7.)

"We shall have cheap bread, and its price will be reduced 33 per cent."--(Ib. No. 34.)

4. Messrs Villiers, Muntz, Hume, Roche, Thornton, Rawson, Sandars, (all Leaguers,) say, and
the oracle of the League itself has said, that "We want free trade, to enable us to reduce
wages, that we may compete with foreigners."--(Post, pp. 13-16.)

5. The League Oracle admits that "a repeal would injure the farmer, but not so much as he fears."--(League
Circular, No. 58.)

Mr Cobden says--

1. "If we have free trade, the landlords will have as good rents as now."--(Speech in the House
of Commons, 15th May last.)

2. "Provisions will be no cheaper."--(Speech at Bedford, Hertford Reformer, 10th June last.)

3. "THE ARGUMENT FOR CHEAP BREAD WAS NEVER MINE."--(Morning Chronicle, 30th June 1843, Speech
on Penenden Heath.)

"THE IDEA OF LOW-PRICED FOREIGN CORN IS ALL A DELUSION."--SPEECH AT Winchester, Salisbury Herald,
July 29, 1843, p. 3.

4. Messrs Cobden, Bright, and Moore, now affirm--"It is a base falsehood to say we want free
trade, to enable us to reduce the rate of wages."--(Mr Cobden on Penenden Heath. Messrs Bright
and Moore at Huntingdon.)

5. Cobden, Moore, and Bright, say, that it is to the interest of the farmer to have a total
and immediate repeal.--(Uxbridge, Bedford, Huntingdon.[34])

    [34] Extracted from a very admirable speech by Mr Day of
    Huntingdon, (Ollivier, 1843,) and which we earnestly recommend
    for perusal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The disgusting selfishness and hypocrisy of such men as Cobden and his companions, in veiling
their real objects under a pretended enmity to "Monopoly" and "Class Legislation"--and disinterested
anxiety to procure for the poor the blessings of "cheap bread"--fills us with a just indignation;
and we never see an account of their hebdomadal proceedings, but we exclaim, in the language
of our immortal bard--

      "Oh, Heaven! that such impostors thoud'st unfold,
      And put in every honest hand a whip,
      To lash the rascals naked through the land!"

While we repeat our deliberate opinion, that the Anti-corn-law League, as a body, is, in respect
of actual present influence, infinitely less formidable than the vanity and selfish purposes
of its members would lead them to wish the country to believe--we must add, that it is quite
another question how long it will continue so. It may soon be converted--if indeed it has not
already been secretly converted, into an engine of tremendous mischief, for other purposes
than any ever contemplated by its originators. Suppose, in the next session of parliament,
Ministers were to offer a law-fixed duty on corn: would that concession dissolve the League?
Absurd--they have long ago scouted the idea of so ridiculous a compromise. Suppose they effected
their avowed object of a total repeal of the Corn-laws--is any one weak enough to imagine that
they would then dissolve? No--nor do they now dream of such a thing; but are at the present
moment, as we are informed, "fraternizing" with other political societies of a very dangerous
character, and on the eve of originating serious and revolutionary movements. Their present
organization is precisely that of the French Jacobins; their plan of operation the same. Let
any one turn to The League Circular of the 18th November, and he will see announced a plan
of action on the part of this Association, precisely analagous, in all its leading features,
to that of the French Jacobins: and we would call the attention of the legislature to the question,
whether the Anti-corn-law League, in its most recent form of organization and plan of action,
be not clearly within the provisions of statutes 57 Geo. III., c. 19, § 25 and 39; Geo. III.,
c. 79? What steps, if any, the legislature may take, is one thing; it is quite another, what
course shall be adopted by the friends of the Conservative cause--the supporters of the British
constitution. It is impossible to assign limits to the mischief which may be effected by the
indefatigable and systematic exertions of the League to diffuse pernicious misrepresentations,
and artful and popular fallacies, among all classes of society. That they entertain a fearfully
envenomed hatred of the agricultural interest, is clear; and their evident object is to render
the landed proprietors of this country objects of fierce hatred to the inferior orders of the
community. "If a man tells me his story every morning of my life, by the year's end he will
be my master," said Burke, "and I shall believe him, however untrue and improbable his story
may be;" and if, whilst the Anti-corn-law League can display such perseverance, determination,
and system, its opponents obstinately remain supine and silent, can any one wonder if such
progress be not made by the League, in their demoralizing and revolutionary enterprize, that
it will soon be too late to attempt even to arrest?

