Of the antiquity of this district we could quote more proofs. The galleried inn-yards, and
among them that at which the Pilgrims sojourned on their road to Canterbury, are among them.
In our last volume too, at page 160, we engraved an ancient Vault in Tooley-street, the remains
of the "great house, builded of stone, with arched gates, which pertained to the Prior of Lewis,
in Sussex, and was his lodging when he came to London." Not far from this was "another great
House of Stone and Timber," which, in the thirteenth century, was held of John, "Earl Warren,
by the Abbot of St. Augustins, at Canterbury." Stowe says--"It was an ancient piece of worke,
and seemeth to be one of the first builded houses on that side of the river, over against the
city: it was called the Abbot's Inne of St. Augustine in Southwark."

There was also another "Inne" near this spot, which belonged to the Abbey of Battle, in Sussex,
and formed the town residence of its Abbots. This stood on the banks of the Thames, between
the Bridge House and Battle Bridge, which was so called, "for that it standeth on the ground,
and over a water-course (flowing out of Thames) pertayning to that Abbey, and was therefore
both builded and repayred by the Abbots of that house, as being hard adjoyning to the Abbot's
lodging." Its situation is known by the landing-place called Battle Stairs. On the opposite
side of Tooley-street is a low neighbourhood of meanly-built streets and passages, still denominated
the Maze, from the intricacies of a labyrinth in the gardens of the Abbot of Battle's Inn,
and which fronted its entrance-gate.

With these few quotations of the ancient importance of Southwark, we can but repeat our regret
that no regular history of this district has yet been published. There are three or four gentlemen
resident there, whose antiquarian attainments highly qualify them for the task. The public
would surely find them patronage.

The Engraving is from an original sketch by an ingenious Correspondent, M.P. of Upton, near
Windsor, whom we thank for this specimen of good taste. We are always happy to receive antiquarian
illustrations of our Metropolis, and in this instance the zeal of the artist, who resides twenty
miles distant, deserves special mention.

    [1] See Mirror, vol. xiii. p. 227. Gower is buried here,
        Fletcher and Messenger too; and not long since the bones of
        Bishop Andrews chapels for the New London Bridge approach.--See
        also Mirror, vol. xvi. p. 297.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARLIAMENT.

(For the Mirror.)

The following particulars, which have been gleaned from several sources, relating to the British
Parliament, may be acceptable at the present time, when the English people are in hopes of
a renovation of that Constitution which has been, and will still continue to be, the admiration
of the civilized world:--The word Parliament was first used in 1265; and the Commons were admitted
at this time, though not regularly represented. The parliament called at Shrewsbury, in 1283,
by Edward I., was the first to which cities and towns were summoned to send representatives.
It was also the first that granted aids towards the national defence of the three denominations
of knights, citizens, and burgesses, as well as by the lords spiritual and temporal. In this
parliament the representatives sat in a separate chamber from the barons and knights. The Commons
consisted of two knights for each county, two representatives for the city of London, and two
for each of the following twenty towns only:--

Winchester, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, York, Bristol, Exeter, Lincoln, Canterbury, Carlisle, Norwich,
Northampton, Nottingham, Scarborough, Grimsby, Lynn, Colchester, Yarmouth, Hereford, Chester,
Shrewsbury, Worcester.

From this it appears that there were not representatives of any towns in the counties of

Westmoreland, Lancaster, Derby, Durham, Stafford, Warwick, Leicester, Rutland, Suffolk, Hertford,
Bedford, Cambridge, Huntingdon, Buckingham, Berks, Oxford, Wilts, Somerset, Gloucester, Dorset,
Sussex, Surrey.

In after times, burghs that were summoned frequently prayed the Crown to be excused from sending
representatives, on the account of their being compelled to pay 3s. 4d. a day to each member
for his maintenance, while attending in his place; yet the allowance was made on a plan so
strictly economical, that the knights of Berkshire were only allowed for six days, those for
Bedfordshire for only five days, and those for Cornwall for only eleven days, when called to
a parliament at York. Sheriffs, in their write for elections to parliament, sometimes omitted
one or more burghs in a county, and at other times sent writs to the same burghs--and this,
for aught known to the contrary, without instruction from the king or his council. Where burghs
were poor, there were many such omissions, by favour of the sheriff, for a space of nearly
three hundred years. Upon petition of the town of Torrington to Edward III., in 1366, he directed
a letter to the bailiff and good men of the town, excusing them "from the burden of sending
two representatives to parliament, as they had never been obliged so to do till the 24th of
his reign, when," says the king, "the sheriffs of Devonshire maliciously summoned them to send
two members to parliament."

Writs for the election of members to serve in the House of Commons are issued under different
authorities upon a general election, and upon vacancies of particular seats during the continuance
of a parliament. In the former case, the Lord Chancellor of Great Britain, pursuant to the
order in council, causes the writs of elections to be issued for all places in England and
Scotland to which such writs are usually sent. By the Articles and Act of Union with Ireland,
the Lord Chancellor then, pursuant to the said orders, &c., causes writs to be issued and directed
by the Clerk of the Crown in Ireland to the several counties, and such counties of cities and
towns as send members to the united parliament.

It is generally supposed that the circumstance of bishops, or other ecclesiastics having seats
in the legislature, is peculiar to England. This is a mistake;--it was characteristic of the
Scottish constitution for centuries previous to their connexion with England: so far back,
indeed, if not much farther, as the twelfth century. It is stated, in ancient documents connected
with the history of the county of Elgin, the authenticity of which cannot be doubted, that
the Abbey of Kinloss was founded by David I., in January, 1150, and that the abbot was mitred,
and had a seat in parliament.

To the passing of a bill, the assent of the knights, citizens, and burgesses must be in person;
but the lords may give their votes by proxy; and the reason is, that the barons always sat
in parliament in their own right, as part of the pares curtis of the king; and therefore, as
they were allowed to serve by proxy in the wars, so had they leave to make proxies in parliament;
but the commons coming only as representing the barones minores, and the soccage tenants in
the country, and as representing the men of the cities, &c., they could not constitute proxies
as representatives of others.

When it is the pleasure of the Crown to dissolve a parliament, it is the constant practice
immediately to summon another, and to make the dissolution of the old and the calling of the
new simultaneous acts. By the Act of 7 and 8 of William III., c. xxv. s. I, forty days should
intervene between the teste and return of the writs for a new parliament; but a longer time
is necessary, and fifty days now intervene.

Parliaments became triennial from the reigns of Edward III., but not until 1694 had any act
passed to make such duration legal. In 1716 this was repealed, and the present act passed,
making them septennial.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIMPLE AMBITION.

(To the Editor.)

The following anecdote was told me last summer, in the cabriolet of a diligence between Pau
and Bayonne, and is very much at your service. EGOMET IPSE.

About twenty-three years ago, the vane of Strasbourg Cathedral was struck by lightning, so
that it hung on one side, threatening by its fall to endanger the lives of the people below.
The alarm was so great, that the authorities, after a special consultation, posted bills about
the streets, offering any reward that should be required to any one that would venture to ascend
and strike off the vane. While the good citizens were reading this announcement, a peasant
from the department of the Landes passed by, and being unable to read, he inquired the purport
of the advertisement. When informed, he immediately offered his services for that purpose,
and was conducted to the mayor and the bishop, who happened to be both in the Hôtel de Ville
at the time. They questioned him, and fully acquainted him with the difficulties of the enterprise--such
as the real height, and that the upper part of the spire could only be ascended by ladders
on the outside. However, nothing daunted, he persisted in his resolution to perform the feat
on the morrow. All Strasbourg was assembled in the open places of the city on the next day;
and, although admiring his courage as they saw him ascend, they most prudently refrained from
cheering him as he deserved. Few who were then shading their eyes from the sun, in order to
gaze on the spire, but must have envied him the scene of surpassing loveliness that was spread
below him, although it is probable that neither the green landscape fading into blue distance,
the relics of ancient castles, nor the beautiful Rhine glittering in sunshine, detained his
regards. He who at home, in his own barren and level sands, had been used to no greater elevations
than his stilts, was now mounting like an eagle towards heaven, and admired by thousands. When
he reached the summit, he deliberately seated himself on the highest stone, with one leg on
each side of the vane; and while his clothes were visibly fluttered in a strong breeze at such
an eminence, he, with a hammer and chisel, displaced the cross that had caused such alarm,
It flew spinning to the earth, and, borne away by the wind, fell in a neighbouring field, where
it sank twenty inches into the soil. The air was now rent with acclamations towards him,

  Cui robur et aes triplex
  Circa pectus erat--

(for, be it remarked, he was the only person who had even proposed to effect its removal).
On his descent, he was carried in triumph to the Hôtel de Ville. Being thanked by the authorities
then and there assembled, and assured of their intense anxiety for his life ever since he had
quitted the earth, he was asked what was the recompense he demanded? He modestly replied, "that
if they were pleased with what he had performed, he hoped they would not think him presumptuous,
but he should so much like to walk through the Arsenal, and see all its wonderful stores and
docks!"--and they could not prevail upon him to ask more.

A week afterwards he left Strasbourg, with twenty-five Napoleons in his pocket; and declared
that he had never before spent his time so agreeably as he did in that city, for he had seen
the Imperial Arsenal, the fortifications, and many other fine, as well as useful, sights, and
had been continually feasted gratis by the rich and the great folks.

       *       *       *       *       *

RANSOMS.

(Concluded from page 149.)

