Spelman (Glossary, sub voce) endeavours to convince us that capella is the same as capsella,
the diminutive of capsa; thus making chapel, in the first instance, "a small repository" (sc.
of relics). Richardson is also in favour of this etymon, notwithstanding its harshness and
insipidity. I think the common derivation (from capella, diminutive of capa) very much preferable
to any other, both on the score of philology and of history. Ducange has quoted several passages,
all tending to evince that capella (explained by the Teutonic voccus) was specially applied
to the famous vestment of St. Martin, comprising his cloak and hood (not merely his hat, as
some writers mention). The name was then metonymically transferred to the repository in which
that relic was preserved, and afterwards, by a natural expansion, became the ordinary designation
of the smaller sanctuaries. This derivation is distinctly affirmed by Walafred Strabo about
842, and by a monk of St. Gall, placed by Basnage about 884. The earliest instance where the
word capella is used for the vestment of St. Martin appears to be in a "Placitum" of Theodoric,
King of France, who ascended the throne A.D. 672--"in oratorio nostro super capella Domini
Martini ... hæc dibiret conjurare." In a second "Placitum," also quoted by Ducange, of Childebert,
King of France (circa 695), the word capella seems to mean a sacred building--"in oratorio
suo seu capella Sancti Marthini." And in a charter of Charles the Simple, circ. 900, the term
unquestionably occurs in this latter signification, disconnected from St. Martin. Other illustrations
may be seen in Ducange, who has bestowed especial industry on the words capa and capella.

With respect to the legal definition of the modern chapel, I may mention that, in stat. 7 &
8 Geo. IV. c. 29. s. 10., it signifies, according to Mr. Stephens (Eccl. Statutes, p. 1357.),
"a chapel where the rites and ceremonies of the Church of England are performed, and does not
include the chapels of Dissenters." In stat. 7 & 8 Geo. IV. c. 30., we read, notwithstanding,
of "any chapel for the religious worship of persons dissenting from the United Church of England
and Ireland."

C.H. St. Catharine's Hall, Cambridge.

Chapels (No. 20. p. 333., and No. 23. p. 371.).--The opinion of the "BARRISTER" that this term
had come into use as a designation of dissenting places of worship from no "idea of either
assistance or opposition to the Church of England," but only as a supposed means of security
to the property, is probably correct. Yet it is likely different reasons may have had weight
in different places.

However, he is mistaken in "believing that we must date the adoption of that term from about"
forty years ago. I am seventy-six years old, and I can bear testimony, that from my infancy
it was the term universally employed in Yorkshire, Derbyshire, Cheshire, Lancashire, and, I
think probable, in the more northern counties. In common speech, it was used as the word of
discrimination from the Methodist places of worship, which bore the name of Meeting-houses,
or, more generally, Meetings. But within the period (forty years) assigned by your learned
correspondent, I think that I have observed the habit to have extensively obtained of applying
the term Chapels to the latter class of places.

I have abundant evidence of the general use of the term for dissenting buildings, back to the
seventeenth century. From my early life, I remember the current opinion to have been that Chapel
was the word in use north of the Trent, and Meeting-house in Nottingham and southwards.

An eminent antiquary, the Rev. Joseph Hunter, F.S.A., could cast a full light upon this subject.

J.P.S. Homerton, April 15.

Beaver (No. 21. p. 338.).--The earliest form of this word is fiber, which is used to signify
the animal, the Castor, by Varro and Pliny. The fabulous story of the self-emasculation by
which the beaver eludes pursuit, is thus introduced by Silius, in illustrating the flight of
Hasdrubal:-- {418}

  "Fluminei veluti deprensus gurgitis undis,
   Avulsâ parte inguinibus caussaque pericli,
   Enatat intento prædæ fibor avius hoste."

  Punica, IV. 485-8, where see Ruperti.

The scholiast on Juvenal, xii. 34., has the low Latin vebrus. (See Forcellini, Lex. in Fiber
et Castor, Ducange in Bever, and Adelung in Biber.) Derivations of the word bebrus occur in
all the languages of Europe, both Romanic and Teutonic; and denote the Castor. Beaver, in the
sense of a hat or cap, is a secondary application, derived from the material of which the hat
or cap was made.

W.

Poins and Bardolph (No. 24. p. 385.)--Mr. Collier (Life prefixed to the edit. of Shakspeare,
p. 139.) was the first to notice that Bardolph, Fluellen, and Awdrey, were names of persons
living at Stratford in the lifetime of the poet; and Mr. Halliwell (Life of Shakspeare, pp.
126-7) has carried the subject still further, and shown that the names of ten characters in
the plays are also found in the early records of that town. Poins was, I believe, a common
Welsh name.

S.

God tempers the Wind (No. 22. p. 357.)--Le Roux de Liney, Livre des Proverbes Français (Paris,
1842), tom. i. p. 11., cites the following proverbs--

  "Dieu mesure le froid à la brebis tondue,
                              ou,
   Dieu donne le froid selon la robbe,"

from Henri Estienne, Prémices, &c., p. 47., a collection of proverbs published in 1594. He
also quotes from Gabriel Meurier, Trésor des Sentences, of the sixteenth century:--

  "Dieu aide les mal vestus."

SIWEL. April 5. 1850.

Sterne's Koran (No. 14. p. 216.)--An inquiry respecting this work appeared in the Gent. Mag.,
vol. lxvii. pt. ii. p. 565.; and at p. 755. we are told by a writer under the signature of
"Normanus," that in his edition of Sterne, printed at Dublin, 1775, 5 vols. 12mo., the Koran
was placed at the end, the editor honestly confessing that it was not the production of Sterne,
but of Mr. Richard Griffith (son of Mrs. Griffith, the Novellettist), then a gentleman of large
fortune seated at Millecent, co. Kildare, and married to a daughter of the late Ld. C.B. Burgh.

I possess a copy of an indifferent edition of Sterne's works, in point of paper and type, "Printed
for J. Mozley, Gainsbrough, 1795. 8 vols. 12mo." The Koran is in the sixth vol., termed "The
Posthumous Works of L. Sterne," dedicated to the Earl of Charlemont by the editor, who, in
his address to the reader, professes to have received the MS. from the hands of the author
some time before his untimely death.

This I hope will answer the Query of "E.L.N.:" and at the same time I wish to express my regret,
that we do not possess a really good and complete edition of Sterne's Works, with a Life and
literary history of them, incorporating the amusing illustrations by Dr. Ferriar.

F.R.A. April 12. 1850.

Lollius.--In answer to "J.M.B." (No. 19. p. 303.) as to who was the Lollius spoken of by Chaucer,
I send you the following. Lollius was the real or fictitious name of the author or translator
of many of our Gothic prose romances. D'Israeli, in his admirable Amenities of Literature,
vol. i. p. 141., says:--

    "In some colophons of the prose romances the names of real
    persons are assigned as the writers; but the same romance is
    equally ascribed to different persons, and works are given as
    translations which in fact are originals. Amid this prevailing
    confusion, and these contradictory statements, we must agree
    with the editor of Warton, that we cannot with any confidence
    name the author of any of these prose romances. Ritson has aptly
    treated these pseudonymous translators as 'men of straw.' We may
    say of them all, as the antiquary Douce, in the agony of his
    baffled researches after one of their favourite authorities, a
    Will o' the Wisp named LOLLIUS, exclaimed, somewhat
    gravely,--'Of Lollius it will become every one to speak with
    diffidence.'"

Perhaps this "scrap" of information may lead to something more extensive.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Henry Ryder, Bishop of Killaloe (No. 24. p. 383).--Henry Ryder, D.D., a native of Paris, and
Bishop of Killaloe, after whose paternity "W.D.R." inquires, was advanced to that see by patent
dated June 5. 1693 (not 1692), and consecrated on the Sunday following in the church of Dunboyne,
in the co. Meath. See Archdeacon Cotton's Fasti Ecclesiæ Hibernicæ, vol. i. p. 404., who gives
an account of his family.

W.(I.)

Brown Study (No. 22. p. 352.).--Surely a corruption of brow-study, brow being derived from
to old German, braun, in its compound form ang-braun, an eyebrow. (Vide Wachter, Gloss. Germ.)

HENNES

Seven Champions of Christendom.--Who was the author of The Seven Champions of Christendom?

R.F. JOHNSON.

    [The Seven Champions of Christendom, which Ritson describes as
    "containing all the lies of Christendom in one lie," was written
    by the well-known Richard Johnson. Our correspondent will find
    many curious particulars of his various works in the
    Introduction which Mr. Chappell has prefixed to one of them,
    viz. The Crown Garland of Golden Roses, edited by him from the
    edition of 1612 for the Percy Society.] {419}

"Tempora mutantur nos et mutamur in illis."--"E.V." (p. 215.) is referred to Cicero De Officiis,
lib. i. cap. 10., and Ovid, Met. lib. xv. 165. et seqq.

"Vox Præterea nihil."--"C.W.G." (p. 247.) is also referred to Ovid, Met. lib. iii. 397., and
Lactantius, lib. iii. Fab. v. These are the nearest approximations I know.

A.W.

Vox Populi Vox Dei.--The words "Populi vox, vox Dei," stand as No. 97. among the "Aphorismi
Politici ex Ph. Cominoeo," in a small volume in my possession, entitled,--

    "Aphorismi Politici et Militares, etc. par Lambertum Danæum
    collecti. Lugduni Batavorum. CID IDC XXX IX."

There is no reference given to book or chapter; and, judging from the manner in which the aphorisms
of Thucydides and Tacitus (which I have been able to examine) are quoted, I fear it may be
found that the words in question are rather a condensation of some paragraph by Des Comines
that the ipsissima verba that he employed.

C. FORBES. Temple.

The Cuckoo.--In respect to the Query of "G." (No. 15. p. 230.), on the cuckoo, as the Welsh
Ambassador, I would suggest that it was in allusion to the annual arrival of Welshmen in search
of summer and other employment. As those wanderers may have entered England about the time
of the cuckoo's appearance, the idea that the bird was the precursor of the Welsh might thus
become prevalent. Also, on the quotation given by "PETIT ANDRÉ" (No. 18. p. 283.) of Welsh
parsley, or hempen halters, it may have derived its origin from the severity practised on the
Welsh, in the time of their independence, when captured on the English side of the border,--the
death of the prisoner being inevitable.

GOMER.

Ancient Titles (No. 11. p. 173.).--It may be interesting to your querist "B." to know that
the seal of the borough of Chard, in the county of Somerset, has two birds in the position
which he describes, with the date 1570.

S.S.S.

Daysman (No. 12. p. 188., No. 17. p. 267.).--For quoted instances of this, and other obsolete
words, see Jameson's Bible Glossary, just published by Wertheim in Paternoster Row.

S.S.S.

Safeguard (No. 17. p. 267.).--The article of dress for the purpose described is still used
by farmers' wives and daughters in the west of England, and is known by the same name.

S.S.S.

Finkle (No. 24. p. 384.).--means fennel. Mr. Halliwell (Dict. p. 357.) quotes from a MS. of
the Nominale, "fynkylsede, feniculum."

L.