 And, after balancing a while in her
mind the account between her judgment, which would have declared for the reserved but sterling
Arthur, and her fancy, which clamored hard for the manly-looking and more social Mark, she
finally yielded the reins to the latter, and took measures accordingly. After this, Arthur's
taste in selecting a piece of goods did not, as before, seem to be appreciated. Her handkerchief
was never dropped where he had any chance to pick it up; and she was never quite ready to go
till Mark was nearest at hand to help her into her wagon or side-saddle. By this delicate system
of female tactics, common with girls of more pretensions than Alice, she effectually repressed
the advances of the one, and as effectually encouraged those of the other; and the result,
as she had anticipated, was a declaration from Mark, an acceptance on her part, and a speedy
marriage between them. Arthur's heart bled at the event; but it bled inwardly; and he had at
least the consolation of believing that no one suspected the state of his feelings, except,
perhaps, Alice, and he was not unwilling that she should know them. He therefore put the best
face on the matter he could,--appeared wholly unconcerned,--attended the wedding, and with
forced gayety openly wished the new married couple the happiness which he secretly wished was
his own. The tender passion had been a new thing to the money-loving Arthur. By its elevating
influences, he, who had looked for enjoyment only in wealth, had been enabled to raise his
vision to a higher sphere of happiness. And thus to lose the bright glimpses, and be thrown
back to earth again, was, in reality, however he might disguise the fact from others, a serious
blow to his feelings, and one, indeed, which soon mainly led to a movement on his part that
gave a new turn to his apparent destinies, and a no less one, probably, to those of his then
almost envied brother Mark. For, finding it impossible to feel his former interest in business,
in a place whose associations had become painful to him, he secretly resolved to leave it as
soon as he believed he could do so without leading to any surmises respecting the true cause
of the change he contemplated. Accordingly, in a few months, he began to suggest his own unfitness
for making a profitable partner in country trade, and finally came out with a direct proposition
to his brother to buy him out at a sum which he knew would be a temptingly low one. And the
result was, that the proposition was accepted, "the partnership dissolved by mutual consent,"
and the released Arthur, with his portion, soon on his way to one of the eastern seaports,
to set up business, as he soon did, for himself alone.

The withdrawal of Arthur Elwood deprived this little establishment of its only really valuable
guidance, and left it to the chance fortunes of greater gains or greater losses than would
have been likely to occur under the cautious and hazard-excluding system of business which
he had adopted for its control. But, nothing for a year or two occurring to induce Mark Elwood
to depart from the system under which the business had been conducted, and Arthur's prudent
maxims of trade, to which he had been accustomed to defer, remaining fresh in his mind, he
naturally kept on in the old routine, which he was the more willing to follow, as by it he
found himself clearly on the advance. He was blessed in his family; for his wife, who had no
undue aspirations for wealth or show, had not only proved an efficient helper by her economy
and good counsels, but added still more to his gratification by bringing him a promising boy.
Being the only trader of the village, or hamlet it might more properly be called, he was conscious
of being the object of that peculiar kind of favor and respect which was then--more freely
than at the present day, perhaps--accorded to the country merchant by the masses among whom
he resided. And, finding his still comparatively moderate expectations thus every day fully
realized, he was satisfied with his condition in the present, and hopeful and happy in the
prospects it presented in the future; for the demon of unlawful gain had not then tempted him
into forbidden paths by the lure of sudden riches.

But that demon at length came in the shape of Gaut Gurley. From what part of the country this
singular and questionable personage originally came, was unknown, even in the neighboring village
(which was within the borders of Maine) where he had recently located himself with a young
wife and child. And, as he very rarely made any allusions to his own personal affairs, every
thing relating to his origin, life, and employments, previous to his appearance in this region,
was a matter of mere conjecture, and many a dark surmise, also, we should add, respecting his
true character. For the last few years, however, he was known to have followed, at the appropriate
seasons of the year, the business of trapping, or trading for furs with the Indians, around
the northern lakes. He had several times passed through the village on his returns from his
northern tours, and called on the Elwoods, whose contrasted characters he seemed soon to understand.
But he pressed no bargains upon them for his peltries; for, disliking the close questionings
and scrutinizing glances of Arthur, and finding he could make no final trade with Mark without
the assent of the former, he gave up all attempts of the kind, and did not call again during
the continuance of the partnership, nor till this time; when, finding that Mark was in trade
alone, he announced his intention of spending some time in the village, to see what arrangements
could be made, as he at first held out to Elwood, for establishing this as his place for the
regular sales or deposit of his furs.

But the fur traffic, whatever it might have been formerly, was now not the main, if any part
of the object he had in view. The times had changed, closing many of the old avenues of trade,
but opening new ones to tempt the ever restless spirit of gain. And, although the fur trade
was still profitable, there was yet another springing up, which, for those who, like him, had
no scruples about engaging in it, promised to become far more so. The restrictions which it
had been the policy of our government to throw around commerce, in the incipient stages of
our last national quarrel with Great Britain, had caused an unprecedented rise in the prices
of silks and other fine fabrics of foreign import. This had put whatever there was of the two
alleged leading traits of Yankee character, acquisitiveness and ingenuity, on the qui vive
to obtain those goods at the former prices, for the purpose of home speculation. And Canada,
being separated by a land boundary only from the States, presented to the greedy eyes of hundreds
of village mammonists, who, like Elwood, were plodding along at the slow jog of twenty per
cent profits, opportunities of so purchasing as to quadruple their gains; which were quite
too severe a test for their slender stock of patriotism to withstand. It was but a natural
consequence, therefore, that all of them whose love of gain was not overcome by their fear
of loss by detection and the forfeiture of their goods, should soon be found, in spite of all
the vigilance and activity of the host of custom-house officers by whom the government had
manned the Canadian lines, secretly engaged in that contraband traffic.

The history of smuggling as carried on between the Northern States and Canada, from the enactment
of the embargo at the close of 1807, and especially from the enactment of the more stringent
non-intercourse law of 1810, to the declaration of war in 1812, and even, to a greater or less
extent, to the proclamation of peace in 1815, is a portion of our annals that yet remains almost
wholly unwritten. Although the contraband trade in question was doubtless more or less followed
along the entire extent of our northern boundaries, from east to west, yet along no portions
of them half so extensively, probably, as those, of Vermont and New Hampshire, which, from
their close contiguity to Montreal and Quebec, the only importing cities of the Canadas, afforded
the most tempting facilities and the best chances for success. Along these borders, indeed,
it was for years one almost continuous scene of wild warfare between the custom-house officers
and their assistants, and the smugglers and their abettors, both parties carrying arms, and
the smugglers, especially, going armed to the teeth. In these skirmishes many were, at different
times, killed outright; many more were missing, even on the side of the officials, for whom
dark fates were naturally conjectured; while hundreds, on both sides, were crippled or otherwise
seriously wounded. Sometimes, when a double sleigh, or wagon, deeply laden with smuggled goods,
in charge of three or four stout and resolute fellows aboard, who, with as many more, perhaps,
of their confederates on horseback or in light teams, before and behind, were making their
way, at full speed, with their prize, from the line to some secret and safe depository in the
interior, was suddenly beset and brought to a stand by an equal or greater number of government
officials, deeply intent on a seizure, a most furious conflict would ensue, in which the combatants,
growing desperate for the seizure or defence of the prize, would ply their hard yeoman fists,
clubs, loaded whipstocks, or whatever was at hand, with terrible effect, and often prolong
the melee till the snow or ground was encrimsoned with blood, and scarcely an uninjured man
remained on the ground. Sometimes the besetting officials were made prisoners, and marched
off at the cocked pistol's mouth into the deep woods, and, after being led forward and backward
through the labyrinths of the forest till bewildered and lost, were suddenly left to find their
way out as they best could,--a feat which there was no danger of their accomplishing till long
after both the smugglers and their goods were beyond the reach of pursuers. And sometimes the
smugglers, when closely pressed and seeing no hope of rescue if taken, as their last resort,
drew their dirks and pistols; and wo to the official who then persisted in attempting a seizure.

But the system of tactics more generally practiced by the smugglers was that of craft and concealment,
carried out by some ingenious measure to prevent all suspicion of the times and places of their
movements, by travelling in the night or in stormy weather, or in the most unfrequented routes,
and, when pursued, by putting the pursuers on false scents, or by feints of running away with
loads of empty boxes to mislead pursuit, till the goods, which had been previously taken to
some place of temporary concealment, could be removed from the vicinity of the search and sent
on their destination.

Such were the general features of the illicit traffic which characterized the period of which
we are treating,--a traffic which laid the foundations of many a village fortune, whose dashing
heirs would not probably be very willing to acknowledge the true source from which the wealth
and position they may now be enjoying was derived,--and finally a traffic which, in its attending
homicides and desperate affrays, its hot pursuits and marvellous escapes, its curious concealments
and artful subterfuges, and, lastly, in the family and neighborhood feuds which it left behind,
would furnish materials for a series of tales as wild and romantic, if not always as creditable
to the actors, as any thing ever yet spread before the public.

It was this questionable business which was then occupying the thoughts of Gaut Gurley, and
in which it was his aim to involve Mark Elwood, whom he had pitched on for the purpose, as
not only a man of sufficient means, with no scruples which could not be overcome, but a man
whom he believed he could make dependent on him, when once enlisted, and to whom he could dictate
terms for his own services. And it is no wonder that a man of his dark cunning, working on
one of the obtuse moral sense, the love of money, and the thoughtlessness of consequences,
of Elwood, should, as he did, soon completely succeed in his objects. For, after having kindled
Elwood's political prejudices against the embargo law, which was held up to be such an outrage
on the commercial rights of the North that it were almost a merit to violate it, Gaut proceeded
to show how enormous were the profits to be made in this trade, and how safely the goods might
be smuggled in, through the back roads and forest routes with which he was familiar, by employing
Frenchmen, as he could, at a cheap rate, to bring them in large panniers on the backs of their
Canadian ponies, or by engaging Indians, who could be enlisted for even less wages, to bring
them in knapsacks through the woods. And so clearly did he demonstrate all this to the mind
of Elwood, that the latter, being unable any longer to resist the temptation of thus securing
the gains of a traffic, by the side of which the small profits of his store at home dwindled
into contempt, soon resolved to engage in it.

From this time Gaut was in high favor with Elwood. The two, indeed, seemed to have suddenly
become inseparable. They were always found together, and always engaged in some closely private
conversation, the purport of which no others were permitted to know, or were enabled to conjecture,
except from the new business movement which was observed soon to follow the forming of their
mysterious connection. And that movement was that Elwood put his store in charge of a clerk,
and, giving out that he was about to engage more extensively in the fur trade, which would
require him to be often absent, went off with a strong and fleet double team, in a northerly
direction, with Gaut for his only companion.

With the advent of this new era in the life of Elwood, every thing became changed about his
establishment. His bustling presence, with his bantering, off-hand, and communicative talk,
no longer enlivened the store and neighborhood; and people, who before seemed to know every
thing about his business and plans, now knew nothing. For he was now most of the time absent
in conducting his operations at the north, or in his stealthy journeyings thence to the cities,
to receive and dispose of the valuable packages which he had put on their passage. He generally
came and departed in the night, and, even during his brief stays at home, he kept himself secluded,
seeming to wish to be seen as little as possible. All this, of course, led to considerable
talk and various speculations; but he so well shrouded his movements from the public, and kept
afloat so many plausible stories to account for his change of business, that he prevented suspicions
from taking any definite shape about home, or spreading abroad to any extent that endangered
his operations, although those operations were constantly continued for years, and, from cautious
and small beginnings, at length became more bold, extensive, and successful, perhaps, than
any thing of the kind ever carried on in the interior of New England. But there was one whose
suspicions of the true character of the business in which he was engaged, notwithstanding his
denials and evasions, even to her, and whose fears and anxieties on account of the dangers
she believed he was constantly incurring, not only from seizure of his property and the personal
violence to which he was exposed in trying to defend it, but from his association of reckless
confederates, especially Gaut Gurley, of whose dark character, as little as she had seen of
him, she was already filled with an instinctive dread,--there was one whose suspicions, and
consequent anxieties, he could never succeed in quieting; and that was his discreet and faithful
wife. She had, during the first year or two of his new career, often expostulated with him
on the doubtful character of his business; but he, by always making light of her fears, by
telling her some truth and withholding more, and disclosing as great a part of his astonishing
gains as he supposed would pass with her for honest acquisitions, generally silenced, if he
did not convince, her; and she, finding him always light-hearted and satisfied with himself,
when he came home, finally ceased her remonstrances, having concluded she would try to conquer
her doubts and fears, or at least say no more on the subject.

At length, however, after a prolonged absence on a tour, in which he had a large venture at
stake, he came home in a greatly altered mood. His usual buoyancy of spirits was gone; he appeared
gloomy and abstracted; and, although, in reply to the anxious inquiries of his wife, he represented
himself to have been entire successful,--even to a greater extent than ever before,--yet it
was quite obvious that something very untoward, to say the least, must have happened to him.
He would not leave his house after dark, he placed loaded pistols within the reach of his hand
when he went to bed, and he would often start up wildly from his sleep. His whole conduct,
indeed, was such as to excite the deeper concern of his perplexed wife, for she feared it betokened
his connection with something very wrong,--something that had brought him into deadly peril,--something,
perhaps, done to others, which made her tremble to think of, but something, at all events,
which made her more than ever dread to have him go back again to the scene of his operations.
But of the last-named of her fears she was shortly relieved; for, to her agreeable surprise,
he soon assured her of his determination to break off entirely from the business he had been
pursuing, and, as much to her gratification as to the evident vexation of Gaut Gurley, who
had come on to look his employer up, he firmly persisted in carrying out his resolution. Nor
was this all. He rapidly drew his business to a close, broke off his old associations, privately
left the place, and, in a few weeks, sent for his family to join him in Boston, where it appeared
he had been for some time secretly transferring his capital, and where he had now established
himself in business, with all the means required, even there, of doing it to the best advantage.
And for some years he did engage in business to advantage, the same strangely good luck attending
him, and prospering wonderfully in all he undertook, till he gained the reputation of being
among the wealthiest of the city. But the spoiler came in a second appearance of Gaut Gurley,
who, having squandered in the country the bounteous sums of money which Elwood had paid him
for his services, now followed the latter to the city. And, with the coming of that personage,
together with the foolish ambition that had, about that time, seized Elwood, to outshine some
of his city competitors in display and expensive living, commenced the wane of a fortune which,
as large as it was, it had required but two short years to bring to the verge on which we represented
its unhappy master as standing in the opening scene of our story.

Having now related all we designed in this retrospect of events, we will return from the somewhat
long but necessary digression, and take up the thread of the narrative where we left it.

CHAPTER III.

  "I strive in vain to set the evil forth.
  The words that should sufficiently accurse
  And execrate the thing, hath need
  Come glowing from the lips of eldest hell.
  Among the saddest in the den of woe,
  Most sad; among the damn'd, most deeply damn'd."

Once on a time, before the dark catalogue of vices was made complete by the wicked inventions
of men, or the evil made to counterbalance the good in the world, the Arch Enemy of mankind,
deeply sensible of the vantage-ground occupied by the antagonistic Being, and anxiously casting
about him for the means of securing an equilibrium of power, called around him a small company,
consisting of those of his Infernal subjects whom he had previously noted for their excellence,
in subtility and devilish invention, and, after fully explaining his wants and wishes to his
keenly appreciating auditory, made proclamation among them, that the Demon who should invent
a new vice, which, under the name and guise of Pastime, should be best calculated to seduce
men from the paths of virtue, pervert their hearts, ruin them for earth and educate them for
hell, should be awarded a crown of honor, with rank and prerogative second only to his own.
He then, with many a gracious and encouraging word to incite in them a spirit of emulation,
and nerve them for exertion in the important enterprise thus set before them, dismissed them,
to go forth among men, observe, study, and come again before him on a designated time, to report
the results of their respective doings, and submit them to his decision. Eager to do the will
of their lord and Lucifer; as well as to gain the tempting distinctions involved in his award,
the commissioned, fiend-group dispersed, and scattered themselves over the earth, which was
understood to be their field of operations. And, after noting, as long as they chose, all the
different phases of human society, the secret inclinations of those composing it, their follies,
weaknesses, and points most vulnerable to temptation, they each returned to the dark dominions
whence they came, to cogitate in retirement, concoct and reduce to form those schemes for securing
the great object in view, which their observations and discoveries on earth had suggested.

At the time appointed for the hearing and decision, the demoniac competitors again assembled
before their imperial arbiter; not this time in secret conclave, but in the presence of thousands
of congregated fiends, who, having been apprised of the new plan about to be presented for
peopling the Commonwealth of Hell with recruits from earth, had come up in all directions from
their dismal abodes, to hear those plans reported, and witness the awarding of the prize for
the one judged most worthy of adoption. Lucifer then mounted his throne, commanded silence,
and ordered the competitors to advance and present, in succession, such plans as they would
lay before him for his consideration and decision. They did so; and one of them, a young and
genteel-looking devil, to whom, from a suppose congeniality of tastes and feelings with the
objects of his care, had been especially assigned the duty of supervising the fashionable walks
of society, now stepped confidently forward and said:

"I present for your consideration, most honored Lucifer, I present FASHION as one of those
social institutions of men which might the most easily become, with a little fostering at our
hands, to us the most productive of vices, under a name least calculated to alarm. It already
holds an almost omnipotent sway over the wealthier, or what they call the higher, classes of
society, who hesitate at no sins that can be committed with its sanction; and the disposition
is every day growing stronger and stronger, among all classes, to fall in with its behests.
Encourage its progress, make its rule absolute with all, and the world's boasted morality would
trouble us, devils, no more. This would be the direct and natural result among the most wealthy,
who would leave no vice unpracticed, no sin uncommitted, provided they could excuse themselves
under plea that it was fashionable. With those of more limited means the effect would be still
better; for devotion to Fashion would beget extravagance--extravagance, poverty--poverty, desperation--desperation,
crime; so with all classes, the result, for our purpose, would be equally favorable and much
the same. The new vice I therefore propose is the one to be made out of, and go under the name
of, FASHION."

"There may be something in this conception," said Lucifer, thoughtfully, after the speaker
had closed; "but is it safe against all contingencies? What if the world should take it into
their heads to make it fashionable to be good?"

"Not the least danger of that," rejoined the other, promptly. "That is a contingency about
as likely to happen as that your highness should turn Christian," he added, with a sardonic grin.

"You are right," responded Lucifer; "and, as your scheme comes within the rule, on the score
of originality, we will reserve it for consideration."

"My plan," said the next demon who spoke, "consists in inciting man to the general use of intoxicating
drinks, under the plea of taking a social glass; for, let the use of these become general,
and all men were devils ready made, and---"

"True, most true!" interrupted Lucifer; "but that is not new. That is a vice I invented myself,
as long ago as the time Noah was floating about in the ark, and the first man I caught with
it was the old patriarch himself. Since then it has been my most profitable agent in the earth,
bringing more recruits to my kingdom than all the other vices put together. But our present
movement was to insure something new. The plan, therefore, does not come within the rule, and
must be set aside."

"The new vice which I propose," said the third demon who came forward, "is involved in the
general cultivation of music, which I contend would render men effeminate, indolent, voluptuous,
and finally vicious and corrupt, so that whole nations might eventually be kept out of heaven
and secured for hell through its deteriorating influences."

"I am not a little dubious about trying to make a vice out of music, which would be all reliable
for our purposes," remarked Lucifer, with a negative shake of the head. "I fear it might prove
a sword which would cut both ways. It may, it is true, be doing a pretty fair business just
now in some localities; but methinks I already see, in the dim vista of the earth's future,
a cunning Wesley springing up, and exhorting his brethren 'Not to let the Devil have all the
good tunes, but appropriate them to the service of the Lord.' Now if the religious world should
have wit enough, as I greatly fear me they would, to follow the sagacious hint of such a leader,
they might make music an agency which would enlist two followers for the white banner of Heaven
where it would one for the red banner of Hell. The experiment would be one of too doubtful
expediency to warrant the trial. The proposition, therefore, cannot be entertained."

Many other methods of creating an efficient new vice were then successively proposed by the
different competitors; but they were all, for some deficiency, or want of originality, in turn,
rejected, till one more only remained to be announced; when its author, an old, dark-eyed demon,
who was much noted for his infernal cunning, and who, conscious perhaps of the superiority
of his device, had contrived to defer its announcement till the last, now came forward, and said:

