So ATKINSON kept up a running commentary on observations of successive Members, including SQUIRE
of MALWOOD and JOKIM. JOKIM at one time, startled by "Oh! oh!" sounding in his right ear as
he was making very ordinary observation, nearly fell over the folded hands he was nervously
rubbing. Situation growing embarrassing. ATKINSON popping up with ever-increasing vivacity;
his "Oh! oh's!" and his "No! no's!" growing in frequency and stormy intensity. Must be got
rid of somehow; but supposing he won't go? Must JOKIM and the Squire, as Mover and Seconder
of Motion for expulsion, lead him bodily forth? or would the Sergeant-at-Arms be called on,
and should we see revival of the old game, when BRADLAUGH and dear old friend GOSSET used to
perform a pas de deux between the gaping doorway and the astonished Mace? Happily ATKINSON
(still like Miss Miggs, as SARK insists) suddenly collapsed.

"It is usual," observed the SPEAKER, "at this point for an Hon. Member to withdraw."

"Oh! Oh!" said ATKINSON, "withdraw? Then I withdraw. But," and here he dropped his voice to
impressive whisper, "I will come back." Then, gathering up his papers, he tripped lightly forth,
and the Varden household--I mean the House of Commons, dropped once more into commonplace.

Business done.--ATKINSON expelled for a week.

Tuesday.--SQUIRE of MALWOOD dropped into poetry, and was much pleased with little exercise.
Backed up JOKIM in Motion suspending Twelve o'Clock rule, so as to sit to all hours of the
night, and wind up business of Session. "We may," he observed, "apply, with a little variation,
the late Mr. MOORE's verse:--

  "The best of all ways to shorten our days
  Is to steal a few hours from the night."

"That doesn't scan," said CHILDERS, who is nothing if not critical.

"Of course it doesn't," said the SQUIRE, testily; "there are a pair of feet left out. But you
know, TOBY, how they run. The last line should be, 'Is to steal a few hours from the night,
my Love.' Now, theoretically, and in accordance with order, all our observations are directed
personally to the SPEAKER. Imagine what would have been said if I had completed the quotation!
I should have been accused of frivolity, and perhaps suspended, like ATKINSON. No, Sir, I know
what I'm about, even when quoting poetry."

Mention this to illustrate the state of terrorism existing in House just now, after blow that
fell on ATKINSON. Only man who prattles on unconscious of impending doom is MORTON. ALPHEUS
CLEOPHAS not at all satisfied with condition of affairs. ATKINSON has stolen march on him;
left him nowhere. Determined to-night to pull up lost way. In Committee on Irish Votes moved
to reduce charge for Dublin Police by £1000; proposed to show at some length charge is excessive.
Committee thought Irish Members might be left to look after that for themselves. Howled at
ALPHEUS continuously for space of ten minutes; then he sat down, moving reduction in dumb show.

Pity Prince of NAPLES hadn't chosen this time for visit; would have given him much livelier
impression of the place than he gained when he sat in Gallery just after Questions, listening
to CLARK discoursing about Scotch Crofters to audience of nineteen, including SPEAKER. Business
done.--Committee of Supply.

Wednesday.--House rapidly thinning; AKERS-DOUGLAS has hard work to keep his men together; falling
off like leaves in wintry weather. Been a long Session, and a weary one. Only sense of duty
to our QUEEN and Country kept us here unto this last.

"And now I'm off," said SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE. "I don't know how you'll get on without
me, dear boys."

"We'll try, we'll try," murmured the Conservatives gathered in the smoke-room for the last
cigarette.

"You see," the SAGE continued, "some lives are valuable to the country, and must be cared for,
whatever violence is done to private feeling. For my part, I would much rather be here, but
RUSTEM ROOSE, He-who-is-to-be-Obeyed, has ordered me to Marienbad, and I go. 'But,' like ATKINSON
and another ancient Roman (of whom you may have read in school-books), 'I return.' In the meanwhile,
take care of Mr. G. Don't let him overwork himself, or ruthlessly endanger his health. It is
precious to all of us, more especially to some of his colleagues on the Front Bench. I often
think of what will happen when he retires from the scene. I fancy there will be a kind of Suttee.
There are quite a lot of old wives in his political establishment, who cannot resist, what
must, indeed, be their natural inclination, the call to immolate themselves on the funeral
pyre. There's ----, and ----, and ---- ----." (Wild horses couldn't drag these names from me.
Anyone interested should write to the SAGE, Poste Restante Marienbad.) "They could not think
of lingering on the political scene after the retirement of the head of the family. I shall
certainly attend the Suttee. It will be an interesting and ennobling spectacle. It will, moreover,
make some room on the newly constructed Treasury Bench."

Business done.--SAGE goes off by the Club train. The two muffled-up figures seen in the background
of the station are emissaries of AKERS-DOUGLAS charged with the mission of ascertaining whether
he's really gone.

Saturday.--House sitting to-day. Should have prorogued yesterday at latest; but, somehow, drifting
on; Members, for their part, drifting off; affairs reached lowest level; business practically
wound up; but House must needs sit another week in order that Appropriation Bill may be got
through all its stages, and so the Constitution saved.

Looking round the dull and deadly scene, discover WADDY, Q.C., with legs engagingly intertwined,
and the forefinger that has wagged a verdict out of many juries resting on his massive brow.
"Got a headache?" I asked, that being the most natural thing under the circumstances.

"No, I've got an idea. I'll pair go off for my well-earned holiday, leaving others to look
after the Appropriation Bill."

"So will I," I said, suddenly caught and borne away by that enthusiasm which has so often influenced
amount of damages in breach of promise cases. Business done.--Practically finished. TOBY, M.P.,
pairs for remaining days of Session.

       *       *       *       *       *

AULD-(ER)-MAN GRAY.

(THE SONG OF A COMING CELEBRITY.)

    [Alderman GRAY is to be the next Lord Mayor, unopposed, on
    retirement of Alderman EVANS.]

  When SAVORY has ruled a twelvemonths to a day,
  Guid EVANS he'll withdraw to give place to lucky GRAY;
  To Auld-(er)-man GRAY, who shall rule in the Ci-tee,
  GRAY was clearly born to be great--and I am he!
  I gang like a host, though 'tis airly to begin;
  I try not to be prood, for that wad be a sin,
  But I will do my best a guid Lord MAYOR to be,
  For Auld-(er)-man GRAY will soon rule in the Ci-tee!

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.--Legal Fiction.--The Lord Chief Justice was certainly a little severe
in his remarks on Stock Exchange morality, and it is natural that you should feel hurt at the
ignorant criticism of a mere outsider. As you remark, there can be no question but that the
Stock Exchange affords the highest example in this country of a school of honour and virtue.
What is called "Legal Intelligence" is often very defective.