B. Hallowell, having affirmed, stated that he knew Crandall, and that he came here in May last,
with introductions from very respectable sources. Dr. Crandall had also been here about a year
before, at which time he (Mr. H.) wished to engage a person at his seminary in Alexandria,
as a lecturer on botany. He offered him $100 a year, and encouraged him to believe that he
would considerably add to that income by making up different classes during the year. Dr. Crandall
said, at the time, that he would take it into consideration, and if he should determine upon
it, would move down. The Doctor did not return in time to fulfil that engagement. But he brought
with him letters showing that he was a christian, a man of science, and a gentleman. He understood
it to be Dr. Crandall's object to have a class not merely for one session, but for every summer,
while he remained here. It was about the last of May or first of June when Dr. Crandall returned.

General Fowler, of Georgetown, stated that he knew Dr. Crandall, and that he was introduced
to him, soon after he came, by a person interested in botany, as a man well acquainted with
that science. Witness was fond of hunting after wild flowers, and proposed to take excursions
with Dr. Crandall. They went out botanizing, six, eight, or ten times together. Their conversation
was confined to that subject, and witness had no reason to suppose that Dr. Crandall had any
incendiary pamphlets, or was at all engaged in the circulation of them. His conduct, so far
as he had seen him, was that of a gentleman. He never knew him to converse with any negro.
He never had any pamphlets with him, to his knowledge. Dr. Crandall's knowledge of the science
was far beyond that which witness professed to have.

Ward B. Howard stated that he had known Crandall some years: at least for seven or eight years.
Witness was then resident at Peekskill. His reputation was good, and he never heard that he
was an abolitionist. Witness himself had no fancy for abolitionists. There was no society of
them at Peekskill. Crandall resided in Peekskill seven or eight years, and had, as he understood,
attended the medical lectures at Philadelphia, and received a diploma there. He had brought
letters of introduction to witness when he came to Peekskill, with the view to settlement there.
Dr. Crandall was actively engaged as an agent for the temperance society. Witness would not
now know the handwriting of the traverser. He might know the signature, but not the general
handwriting.

Jackson O'Brown was living at Peekskill when Dr. Crandall first came there. He boarded with
him nearly two years, and had an opportunity of seeing much of his character; a great part
of the time he roomed with him. The witness never heard that he was engaged in the abolition
societies, though he knew he was an active member of the temperance society.

Henry Gaither said he was in Linthicum's shop at the time when Dr. Crandall was arrested. That
an hour before he had heard that the officers were in pursuit of him. He saw the officers,
Robertson and Jeffers, enter the office; and noticed a crowd gathering around it. He asked
Jeffers, as soon as he came out, what he had discovered, and Jeffers, in reply, said he had
found more than he expected, and had taken 150 or 160 pamphlets. There was much excitement
then in the vicinity. Witness was then himself excited. When Crandall came out, witness was
apprehensive that he would be wrested from the officers by the people. Oyster came in, and
witness asked him if he had seen any pamphlets. He said yes, but not more than two or three.
Witness remarked, that Jeffers said he had seen and taken 150 or 160. Oyster replied, Jeffers
is a liar. Some conversation followed, in which it was suggested that attempts might be made
to prejudice the public mind against Crandall. Witness had since met Jeffers, on the Avenue,
and spoken with him on the subject. Witness remarked to Jeffers, the poor fellow has suffered
enough by so long a confinement, and Jeffers assented to the remark, and added that he believed
Crandall to be innocent.

Jared Stone was acquainted with Crandall, who lived three years in witness's family, and eat
at his table, in Peekskill. Crandall was a physician who obtained a good reputation in that
part of the country, and it continued unblemished. He never was known to have any abolition
papers, or to say any thing in its favor, but was, if any thing, opposed to it.

Mr. Wilson was present at the time spoken of by Mr. Gaither, and said one of the officers came
out and said he had discovered more than he expected, and remarked, my hopes are more than
realized. He could not recollect exactly the number of papers the officer said he had found,
but thought it was one hundred or a hundred and twenty. Some one in the crowd said "we ought
to take the damned rascal and hang him up on one of the trees opposite." The witness then went
away.

Mr. Judson, Representative in Congress from Connecticut, had known Crandall from his boyhood.
Crandall studied with witness's family physician, and acquired a good reputation; nobody stood
better in the neighborhood. After he had finished his education he removed to Peekskill, since
which witness had been in the habit of seeing him frequently; and he had always known him as
a peaceable citizen. The precise year when Crandall was admitted he could not recollect, but
it was about 1827 or 1828. Witness had not seen him for two years till he saw him here in prison,
and had never heard aught against him till now. Mr. Judson also testified, that the prisoner
was a brother of Prudence Crandall, and that at the time of the difficulty with her and her
school for blacks in Connecticut, he met Crandall on board the boat on his way home from New
York; that he talked with him about that school, and the prisoner said he was going to break
it up; that he did not know as he should be able to do it, for his sister Prudence was obstinate,
but his other sister, who was with her, he knew he could get away. Crandall then continued
home with the witness, and exerted himself with as much zeal as any one could to break up the
school.

Dr. Sewall testified that the traverser came to him some time in the spring to get a license
to practice in the District, and showed him two letters of high recommendation. He had some
conversation with Crandall upon subjects of science and upon his knowledge of medicine and
surgery, and formed a high opinion of his talents and acquirements. He advised the defendant
by no means to abandon the practice of his profession for entering upon botany or chemistry,
but if he could do that without interfering with practice, it might do; he thought him too
well qualified in the profession to give it up. Crandall also showed the witness a diploma,
which was regularly signed, and he gave a verbal license to practice, and said at the meeting
of the Board he would have a regular license made out. He had no reason to believe, from his
conversation with the prisoner, that he had any object in view except the pursuit of his profession.
All the stories that he had talked upon the subject of abolition with witness, and given him
Anti-Slavery papers, were mere idle talk.

Mr. Howard said he was sheriff of Winchester county, where Crandall lived, and identified the
handwriting of signatures to a letter of recommendation which Crandall brought with him, and
which was allowed in evidence. All the signers were respectable men. Witness thinks he should
have known if any Anti-Slavery Society existed there--but he knew of none. He also remembered
that Crandall delivered lectures on chemistry there, and he attended them.

