With Temple Bar the City of London, or, rather, the Liberties thereof, begin, and it is here
that on great state occasions the Lord Mayor meets his Sovereign and hands to him the keys
of the City. The first building on this spot was a timber house, but the exact date of its
erection cannot be ascertained. It was probably put up for the decoration of a pageant, and,
being found useful, was kept up. The gate has been often taken to have been part of the defences
of the City, which it certainly was not, being protected or strengthened with neither moat
nor drawbridge, nor being strong enough for the mounting of cannon. The Bar, a simple arrangement
of chain and rails, is mentioned as early as 1301, but it cannot be ascertained that there
was any building upon it. In 1502 the custody of the Bar, together with that of Newgate and
Ludgate, is assigned to Alderman Fabian and others.

In 1533 it would seem that a gate was standing here, because for the reception of Anne Boleyn
Temple Bar was newly painted and repaired, "whereon stood divers singing men and children."
Again in 1547, for the coronation of Edward VI., the Bar was painted and fashioned with battlements.
In 1554 the "new gates" of Temple Bar were assigned to the custody of the City. Aggas's map
shows the Bar as a covered gate. The gateway was very cumbersome, blocking up an already narrow
street. Among other ceremonies it witnessed the progresses of Queen Elizabeth and Queen Anne
respectively, to return thanks in St. Paul's Cathedral, the one for deliverance from the Armada,
and the other in gratitude for Marlborough's victories. Inigo Jones, when he was engaged upon
the Restoration of St. Paul's, was invited to furnish a design for a new arch. He complied,
but his design was never carried out. It was engraved in 1727.

The Great Fire was checked before it reached Temple Bar. In 1670, however, the old gate was
removed and its successor built by Wren. The familiar gate, still (1902) remembered by everybody
who has reached manhood, was removed in the year 1878, and a monument with the City Dragon,
colloquially known as the Griffin, was put up on the site of the Bar. The stones of the ancient
building were preserved, and have been rebuilt in the park of Sir H. Meux at Cheshunt. One
of the decorations of the later gateway consisted of iron spikes on which the heads of traitors
were displayed, notably those of the men incriminated in the rebellions of the eighteenth century.
When a high wind arose, these heads were sometimes blown down into the street below, a sight
better to be imagined than described. From this circumstance Temple Bar was sometimes called
the Golgotha of London.

Here we turn westward, and resume our perambulation in the part lying along the northern side
of the Strand, which has not yet been described.

The parish of St. Clement Danes has changed very greatly since ancient times, when a large
part of it, stretching from Lincoln's Inn Fields to the Strand, was known as Fickett's Field,
and was the jousting-place of the Templars. This portion became gradually covered with houses
and courts, which were at first fashionable dwelling-places, and were associated with noble
names. These degenerated until, at the beginning of the present century, a vast rookery of
noisome tenements, inhabited by the poorest and most wretched people, covered the greater part
of the parish to the north of the Strand. The erection of the new Law Courts, 1868, entirely
swept away numbers of these tenements, and opened out the parish to the north of the church.
The change thus effected paved the way for further reformation, and though the streets about
the site of Clare Market are poor and squalid, they show a beginning of better things, and
no longer own such an evil reputation as they did.

Further north, beyond King's College Hospital, is Portugal Street, called by Strype "Playhouse
Street." In the times of the later Stuarts it was a very fashionable locality. It is said that
women first performed on the stage in public at the King's Theatre, in this street. The players
were often patronized by Pepys. In 1717 the first English opera was performed here, and in
1727 the "Beggar's Opera" was produced with unprecedented success; but in 1835 the theatre
in Portugal Street was taken down to make room for the enlargement of the museum belonging
to the College of Surgeons.

Portsmouth Street contains a quaint, low, red-tiled house purporting to be the Old Curiosity
Shop of Dickens' novel. The Black Jack Tavern, of some notoriety, stood here. It was the resort
of the actors and dramatists of the adjacent theatre, and was the scene of a famous escape
of Jack Sheppard from the Bow Street officers. It is said to have been a meeting-place of the
Cato Street conspirators.

Shear or Shire Lane formerly ran from the east end of Carey Street to the Strand, and formed
the parish boundary. This was a narrow, dirty lane of the vilest reputation before its demolition,
but it had known better days. A very famous tavern stood in the lane, first called the Cat
and Fiddle, later the Trumpet, and still later the Duke of York's. The well-known Kitcat Club
met here originally. This was a society of thirty-nine gentlemen or noblemen zealously attached
to the Protestant succession in the House of Hanover, and originated about 1700. Addison and
Steele, Congreve, Vanbrugh, and others of celebrity, besides the Dukes of Somerset, Devonshire,
Marlborough, Newcastle, etc., and many others, titled and untitled, were of the society. The
bookseller Tonson was the secretary, and he had his own and all their portraits painted by
Sir Godfrey Kneller, who was also a member of the club. Addison dated many of his famous essays
from this address. The lane was known in the reign of the first James as Rogues' Lane.

The south side of Lincoln's Inn Fields only is within our boundaries, but the square is worth
seeing. It is the largest in London, and was partly designed by Inigo Jones, who built the
west side, called the Arch Row; the east side was bounded by the garden wall of Lincoln's Inn;
on the north was Holborn Row; the south side was Portugal Row. The history of Lincoln's Inn
Fields is a curious combination of rascality and of aristocracy. The rascals infested the fields,
which were filled with wrestlers, rogues and cheats, pick-pockets, cripples and footpads; the
aristocrats occupied the stately houses on the west side. Among the residents here were Lord
Somers, the Duke of Newcastle, Lord Kenyon, Lord Erskine, and Spencer Percival. In the fields
Babington and his accomplices were executed, some of them on the 20th, and some on the 21st,
of September, 1586. Here also on July 21, 1683, William, Lord Russell was beheaded.

East of Drury Lane there lies a curious district mainly made up of lanes now rapidly disappearing,
such as Clare Market, Wild Street, and a network of narrow courts. In 1657 Howell speaks of
the Earl of Clare as living "in a princely manner" in this neighbourhood. It was in Clare Market
that Orator Henley had his chapel. The market was one chiefly for meat, and the shops and sheds
were mainly occupied by butchers. Dr. Radcliffe frequented a tavern in this place, and Mrs.
Bracegirdle, the actress, used to visit the market in order to assist the poor basket-women.
The place is now almost gone. There was a notorious burial-ground, closed at last after its
enormities had been exposed over and over again. King's College Hospital is built upon a part
of the slums. Clement's Inn will be swept away by the Strand improvements. New Inn is still
standing; Danes' Inn is a modern court with offices and residential chambers. Wych Street itself
has still some of the old houses left. In Newcastle Street was Lyons' Inn, cleared away to
make room for a theatre.

Drury Lane derives its name from the family mansion of the Druries which stood on the site.
The brave Lord Craven bought this house and rebuilt it. It is stated that he married privately
the Queen of Bohemia, daughter of James I. Timbs says that she occupied the house adjoining
Craven House, which was connected with it by a subterranean passage. Craven Buildings were
built in 1723 upon the site of the house; Hayman, the artist, and Mrs. Bracegirdle, the actress,
both had rooms in these buildings. The Olympic Theatre is also partly on the site of Craven House.

Drury Lane was once a fashionable quarter, but lost that reputation before many of its contemporaries,
and since the time of the third William has borne a more or less vile character. Nell Gwynne
was born in Coal Yard, which opens off on the east side.

The Drury Lane Theatre has many interesting associations. It was built by Killigrew in 1663,
and was called the King's House, under which title Pepys recalls many visits to it. In 1671
it was burnt down. It was rebuilt by Sir Christopher Wren, and opened 1674. Among the list
of patentees we have the names of Rich, Steele, Doggett, Wilks, Cibber, Booth, and also Garrick,
who began here his Shakespearian revivals. Sheridan succeeded Garrick as part proprietor, and
in 1788 John Kemble became manager. The old theatre was demolished in 1791, and a new one opened
three years after. This was also burned down in 1809, and the present theatre opened three
years later. J. T. Smith takes the origin of the theatre still further back, saying that even
from the time of Shakespeare there had been a theatre here, which had been a cockpit. The site
of the cockpit, however, is on the other side of Drury Lane, where Pit Place now is.

North of the theatre was a disused burial-ground, later asphalted and turned into a public
playground. It was less than a quarter of an acre in extent. It is now built over by workmen's
dwellings of the usual kind. It was an additional burial-ground to St. Mary's le Strand, and
is mentioned by Dickens in "Bleak House."

Crown Court recalls the Crown Tavern where Punch was first projected. The south end of Drury
Lane, running into Wych Street, is now completely altered. New Inn and Booksellers' Row, otherwise
Holywell Street, are wiped off the map, and the semicircular arm of the great new street connecting
Holborn and the Strand will come out near St. Clement's Church. The name Holywell referred
to a holy well which stood on the spot. There were, apparently, several of these wells in the
vicinity; one was on the site of the Law Courts (Times, May 1, 1874). The street was a survival
of old London, with its houses picturesquely old, with pointed gables, and it is a cause for
regret that it had to go down in the march of modern improvements (see frontispiece).

Butcher Row ran round the north side of the church. It was so named from a flesh-market established
here by Edward I. Numerous small courts opened off in the north side. Among these were Hemlock,
Swan, Chair, Crown and Star Courts. The Row and its vicinity had for many years a notoriously
bad reputation. One of the courts off Little Shear Alley was Boswell Court, not, as some have
imagined, called after Johnson's biographer. This court was at one time a very fashionable
place of residence; Lady Raleigh, the widow of Sir Walter, lived here for three years.

In Butcher Row the houses were picturesque, of timber and plaster. In one of them the great
de Rosny, afterwards Duc de Sully, lodged for one night when he came to England as the French
Ambassador.

Turning westward, we see what is left of Newcastle Street, which was named after John Holles,
Duke of Newcastle, who owned the ground (1711). The work of demolition is going on as far as
Catherine Street, where the Gaiety theatre still stands, though not for long, for the second
great scimitar sweep of the new street will join the Strand here.

The parish of St. Paul's lies like a leaf on the parish of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, by which
it is wholly surrounded. Its southern boundary runs most erratically, zigzagging in and out
across the streets which connect Maiden Lane and Henrietta Street with the Strand. The eastern
line keeps on the east side of Bow and Brydges Street. The north passes along the north side
of Hart Street, and the west cuts across the east ends of Garrick and New Streets, keeping
to the east of Bedfordbury.

The name Covent is a corruption of Convent, and is taken from the convent garden of the Abbey
of Westminster, which was formerly on this site. It was written Covent, as taken from the French
couvent more immediately than the Latin conventus.

At the dissolution of the monasteries, Westminster Convent Garden became Crown property. In
the first year of his reign Edward VI. granted it to the Duke of Somerset. On the fall of that
nobleman it reverted to the Crown, and in 1552 was granted to the Earl of Bedford with "seven
acres, called Long Acre." The Earl of Bedford built a town-house on his newly acquired property,
and devoted himself to the improvement of the neighbourhood.

Though the parish is so small, it is full of interesting associations, chiefly of the last
two centuries. Wits, actors, literary men, and artists, frequented its taverns and swarmed
in its precincts. The contrast between its earlier days, when it was a quiet retreat where
the monks slowly paced beneath the sheltering trees, and its later vicissitudes, when the eighteenth-century
roisterers and gamesters made merry within its taverns, could hardly be more striking.

The great square called the Market was laid out by the Earl of Bedford in 1631; the Piazza
ran along the north and east sides; the church and churchyard formed the west side; on the
south was the wall of Bedford House, and by a small grove of trees in the middle stood a sundial.
The place gradually grew as a market. In 1710 there were only a few sheds; in 1748 the sheds
had become tenements, with upper rooms inhabited by bakers, cooks and retailers of gin.

The square itself is redolent of memories. When first built it was one of the most fashionable
parts of London, and the names of the occupiers were all titled or distinguished. We read among
them those of the Bishop of Durham, Duke of Richmond, Earl of Oxford, Marquis of Winchester,
Sir Godfrey Kneller, and the Earl of Sussex. The arcade, or Piazza, as it was called, was a
fashionable lounging-place, and many foundling children were called Piazza in its honour. One
of the scenes in Otway's "Soldier of Fortune" is laid here, and also one in Wycherley's "Country
Wife." Sir Peter Lely had a house in the square, and this house was successively occupied by
Sir Godfrey Kneller and Sir James Thornhill (Timbs). Coffee-houses and taverns abounded in
and about the square. Of these the most famous were Will's, Button's and Tom's, well known
by the references to them in contemporary literature. The first of these in point of time was
"Will's," which stood at the north corner of Russell and Bow Streets (see p. 106).

The Bedford Coffee-house under the Piazza succeeded Button's, or, rather, came into vogue afterwards
when Garrick, Quin, Foote and others used it. The house stood at the north-east corner. It
is described as a place of resort for critics. "Everyone you meet is a polite scholar and critic
... the merit of every production of the press is weighed and determined." Apparently a place
where the conversation was a continual attempt at smartness; it must have been most fatiguing.
The weak point, indeed, of this public life was the demand it created for conversational display.
The greater part of Johnson's pithy sayings were delivered in such a mixed company, and were
prepared in sonorous English to suit the company.

An article in the London Mercury, January 13, 1721, states that there were twenty-two gaming-houses
in the parish. Besides all these attractions, there was Covent Garden theatre opened in 1733
by Rich, though the first patent had been granted to Sir William Davenant. In 1746 Garrick
joined Rich, but at the end of the season left him for Drury Lane, taking with him all the
best actors. In 1803 Kemble became proprietor and stage-manager, but five years later the theatre
was completely burnt. It was rebuilt under the directions of R. Smirke, and when re-opened
was the scene of a singularly pertinacious revolt. The prices had been raised in consequence
of the improved accommodation, and the people in the pit banded themselves together under the
name of "Old Prices," and made such an intolerable uproar that the piece could not proceed.
Smith says "the town seemed to have lost its senses." For weeks people wore O.P. hats and O.P.
handkerchiefs, and interrupted every attempt to carry the play through. In the end a compromise
was made. In 1840 Charles Kemble left the theatre, and the building was leased to C. Mathews,
Madame Vestris and Macready. In 1847 it was opened as an Italian Opera-House after being almost
rebuilt. It was again destroyed by fire in 1856, but the façade was saved with its bas-reliefs
and statues by Flaxman and Rossi. These were placed on the present building designed by Barry,
which was opened two years later.

The Church of St. Paul, Covent Garden, was built by Inigo Jones in 1633 at the expense of the
Earl of Bedford; consecrated by Bishop Juxon in 1638; destroyed by fire in 1795; rebuilt by
John Hardwick in the place of the original building. And the story goes that when the architect
heard the commission, "to build a church not much bigger than a barn," he replied it should
be the handsomest barn in England.

Buried here are Robert Carr, Earl of Somerset; Sir Henry Herbert and Samuel Butler, author
of "Hudibras," died 1680; Sir Peter Lely, died 1680, whose monument was destroyed in the fire;
Edward Kynaston, actor; Wycherley, the dramatist; Grinling Gibbons, died 1721, sculptor in
wood; Susannah Centlivre; Dr. Arne, musician, died 1778; Charles Macklin, comedian, died 1797
at the age of 107; John Wolcott, alias Peter Pindar, died 1819. The registers begin at 1615,
and among the baptismal entries are the names of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, May 26, 1689, and
Turner, the painter, May 14, 1775.

The church is visible from the street on the east and the market on the west, but accessible
only by a covered entry under the houses on the north and south. In Hogarth's picture of "Morning"
we get a glimpse of the old church before its destruction, with clock-dial, and tiled roof,
not so very dissimilar from what it is at present.

The election of members for Westminster formerly took place on a hustings before the church,
when there were scenes of wild riot. The most memorable of these elections was that of Fox
and Sir Cecil Wray in 1784.

Bow Street, Covent Garden, was built in 1637, and named after its shape, that of a bent bow.
It is remarkable for the number of well-known persons who have lived in it. It was one of the
most fashionable streets in the Metropolis, and Dryden wrote in the epilogue to one of his plays:

    "I've had to-day a dozen billet-doux
    From fops and wits and cits and Bow Street beaux;"

on which Sir Walter Scott remarked a billet-doux from Bow Street would now be more alarming
than flattering. The police officer began his reign here in 1749.

Henry Fielding, who was in authority in 1753, did much to suppress the unbridled license and
open highway robbery of the Metropolis.

