THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 12, No. 331.] SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1828. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Charlecote Hall, near Stratford-upon-Avon.

"One of the most delightful things in the world is going a journey." Now if there be one of
our million of friends who, like the fop in the play, thinks all beyond Hyde Park a desert,
let him forthwith proceed on a pilgrimage to Stratford-upon-Avon, the birthplace of SHAKSPEARE;
and though he be the veriest Londoner that ever sung of the "sweet shady side of Pall Mall,"
we venture to predict his reform. If such be not the result, then we envy him not a jot of
his terrestrial enjoyment. Let him but think of the countless hours of delight, the "full houses,"
the lighted dome and deeping circles, of the past season; when

  Dread o'er the scene the ghost of Hamlet stalks;
  Othello rages, &c.

and then will he not enjoy a visit to the place where--

  ----Sweetest Shakspeare, Fancy's child,
  Warbled his native wood-notes wild.

Sterne, the prince of sentimental tourists, says, "Let me have a companion of my way, were
it but to remark how the shadows lengthen as the sun declines;" but, for our part, we should
prefer a visit to Stratford, alone, unless it were with some garrulous old guide to entertain
us with his or her reminiscences.

This brings us to Charlecote Hall, one of the Shakspearean relics.

    [1] At Stratford, the family maintain that Shakspeare stole Sir
    Thomas Lucy's buck, to celebrate his wedding-day, and for that
    purpose only. But, in that age, when half the country was
    covered with forests, deer-stealing was a venial offence, and
    equivalent to snaring a hare in our days.

The above is copied from one of a Series of Views illustrative of the Life of Shakspeare, drawn
and etched by Mr. W. Rider, of Leamington. These engravings are five in number, but the artist
explains that he has selected such subjects only, "as from tradition, or more certain record,
might fairly be presumed to bear direct relation to the life of the poet. But while he regrets
that the number of authenticated subjects are so few, he feels that from innovation or decay,
they are almost hourly becoming fewer; and is, therefore, prompted to secure the few remnants
left, while they are yet within his reach."

There is no doubt that the grounds around Charlecote Hall, were the early haunts of SHAKSPEARE;
and that in the house itself sat the magisterial authority, before which he was doomed to meet
the charges, to which his youthful indiscretions had rendered him liable; and, as it remains,
to the present time, for the most part, unaltered, and presents to the spectator of the present
day the same image that was often, and under such peculiar circumstances, impressed on the
eye of our SHAKSPEARE, it cannot but be regarded with the most intense interest by all his
admirers.

In conclusion, we would recommend the illustrators of Shakspeare to possess themselves of a
set of Mr. Rider's "Views;" whilst the visiter of Stratford-upon-Avon would do well to lay
a copy in his portmanteau--for they are in truth so many faithful memorials of the great poet
of nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON NATIONAL VARIETIES.

(For the Mirror.)

There are few more familiar subjects than that of the varieties of national character, and
the resemblances and differences that exist between ourselves and the inhabitants of other
countries. Few conversations occur upon circumstances which may have happened abroad, in which
some one has not an anecdote to relate to illustrate the known peculiarities of the nation
in question; and the greater part of the travels and tours which now issue in such formidable
numbers from the press, are naturally filled with stories and incidents, either to show the
correctness of our ideas of the manners and opinions of our neighbours, or (perhaps more frequently)
to prove that the public were in error in that respect, up to the time when the traveller in
question had discovered the truth, or a clue to it. The daily accounts of the outrages perpetrated
in Ireland, and the alarms that are sounded ever and anon, touching the state of that unhappy
country, are continually exciting surprise, that the natives of the sister island should be
so unaccountably deficient in that sense of order and sobriety which prevails in Great Britain.
We associate with a Scotchman the ideas of shrewdness and prudence; with a Frenchman, gaiety
and frivolity; with a Spaniard, gravity and pride; with an Italian, strong passions of love
and revenge: with a German, plodding industry and habits of deep thinking; and with the northern
nations, an honest sincerity and persevering courage. We sometimes judge with tolerable correctness;
at others are wholly mistaken, and not unfrequently run into such extremes, that having established
a principle, that a particular people are knavish, or cowardly, or stupid, we are unwilling
to admit any exceptions, but include the whole race in our sweeping censure. We are prejudiced
at first sight against a Portuguese or Italian, and are careful of our communications with
him, even though we meet him on the high road, or by mere accident in a public place. There
can, however, be no mistake in the common notion, that each nation has a peculiar collection
of qualities and habits, distinguishing it in a greater or less degree from its neighbours,
and the rest of the world; and it is, therefore, at all events, an interesting, if not an useful
topic, to reflect a little how these differences arise. Not that we intend here to give even
any particular description of the various races of mankind, or to enter into any inquiry upon
the degrees of their mental and bodily capacities; such would be foreign to our purpose, and
would exceed our limits. We shall merely hazard a few observations upon the several causes
to which the diversities in men have been referred, not pretending to any decided opinion on
so nice a point, as whether these causes are wholly of a physical or of a moral kind, or whether
they are compounded of both. The question is, perhaps, one of the most difficult in the whole
range of philosophical experience; we say experience, because it is obvious that all theory
on the subject must be the result of observation and analysis; and that no general principles
can be laid down in the first instance, as the ground work of any hypothesis we might be inclined
to frame.

The scientific men to whom we are chiefly indebted for the facts accumulated on this subject,
are Dr. Blumenbach, of Göttingen, Dr. Pritchard, of Edinburgh, and the eminent surgeon, Mr.
Lawrence. It has been a favourite matter of speculation with Lord Monboddo, as well as with
Voltaire, Rousseau, and the philosophers of the French school, who have endeavoured to show
that men and other animals are endowed with reason or instinct of the same kind, but of different
degrees. According to these fanciful writers, the monkey is but another species of the human
race, and has been termed by them Homo Sylvestris. They made the most diligent researches into
all accounts concerning men in a savage state, and were delighted beyond measure with the discovery
alleged to have been made in the island of Sumatra, of men with tails regularly protruding
from their hinder parts, who, according to Buffon, walked and talked in the woods like other
gentlemen:--

  And backwards and forwards they switched their long tails,
  Like a gentleman switching his cane.

The appearance of Peter the Wild Boy, who was found in the woods of Hamela, in Hanover, living
on the bark of trees, leaves, berries, &c. threw Voltaire into transports of joy. He declared
the event to be the most wonderful and important that ages had recorded in the annals of science,
as it demonstrated the fact of man living after the fashion of beasts, without the least spark
of civilization, and without speech; thereby forming a species of a nature having more in common
with monkeys than with men, and presenting the regular degree, or intermediate class, between
the homo civilis and the homo sylvestris. The circumstance, however, which afterwards transpired,
of Peter's having been found with the remains of a shirt-collar about his neck, threw considerable
discredit on the whole story; and the young savage, on being brought to England by order of
Queen Caroline, lived in Hertfordshire for many years, perfectly harmless and tractable, and
behaving pretty much the same as other idiots. The idea, therefore, of a race of men, in a
healthy, natural condition, having ever existed without the possession of reason, is now deemed
wholly fallacious. It is even maintained by Schlegel, and other authorities of great weight,
that the civilized state is the primitive one, and that savage life is a degeneracy from it,
rather than civilized society being a graft upon barbarity. By Schlegel's theory, the East,
especially India, was the earliest seat of arts and sciences; from the Sanscrit, or Indian
language, now extinct, are the Hebrew, the Chaldaic, the Greek, and many others of the most
ancient tongues, derived; and from the wisdom and learning of the East "was the whole earth
overspread." Undoubtedly it is difficult to imagine by what gradation language could have proceeded,
from the howl of savages, and the cries of nature, till it reached the eloquent music, the
heart-stirring oratory of the Greek; and besides this, and other considerations, Schlegel is
supported by the opinions of Adelung, the learned author of "Mithridates, oder Allgemeine Sprachenkunde,"
upon the probable habitation of the first family of the human race. Adelung says, that civilization
began in Asia, as is, indeed, universally admitted to have been the case; and that when the
waters of the flood subsided, the highest ground, we may naturally conclude, must have been
the earliest inhabited. We may also reasonably presume that a beneficent Providence would place
the first family in a situation where their wants could be easily satisfied; in a garden, as
it were, stocked with all herbs and fruits, fit and agreeable to their use and taste. Now such
a country is actually to be found in Central Asia, between the degrees of 30 and 50 North lat.
and 90 and 110 long. E. of Ferro; a spot as high as the Plains of Quito, or 9,500 feet above
the level of the sea. It contains the sources of most of the great rivers of Asia; the Seleuga,
the Ob, the Lena, the Irtisch, and the Jenisey flow from hence to the North; the Jaik, the
Jihon, and the Jemba to the West; the Amur and the Hoang Ho to the East; and the Indus, Ganges,
and Burrampooter to the South. The valleys within this space, which our readers, by referring
to a map, will find to be correctly delineated, abound with nutritive fruits and vegetables,
and with all animals capable of being tamed. There is evidently, therefore, some plausibility
in the notion that mankind sprung originally from the East, and that from that quarter civilization
is derived; but what portion of knowledge was allotted to the primitive people, or how far
their descendants have surpassed or fallen short of these olden times, must, we fear, be for
ever beyond the reach of our investigation.

If we call to mind a summary of the general divisions of human beings throughout the world,
we shall find little room to doubt of the identity of their genus, and shall, without much
trouble of reflection, class them as different species of that genus:--

  ------Facies non omnibus una,
  Nec diversa, tamen.

Such seems to be the result of Mr. Lawrence's judgment; and though we are aware that the descent
of mankind from one common stock has been much questioned and controverted, particularly in
Germany, we prefer resting upon the received opinion at present, to running the risk of shocking
established notions, by entering into the merits of the contrary theory.

Men are classed by Dr. Blumenbach under five great divisions, viz. the Caucasian, Mongolian,
Ethiopian, American, and Malay. The Caucasian family may be asserted, though by its own members,
to have been always pre-eminent above the rest in moral feelings and intellectual powers, and
is remarkable for the large size of their heads. It need not be more minutely described, than
by saying it includes all the ancient and modern Europeans, (except the Laplanders and Fins;)
the former and present inhabitants of Western Asia as far as the Ob, the Caspian Sea, and the
Ganges, viz. the Assyrians, Medes, Chaldeans, Sarmatians, Scythians, Parthians, Philistines,
Phoenicians, Jews, and Syrians; the Tartars on the Caucasus, Georgians, Circassians, Mingrelians,
Armenians, Turks, Persians, Arabs, Hindoos of high caste, Northern Africans, Egyptians, Abyssinians,
and Guanches. They are supposed to have originally had brown hair and dark eyes.

The Mongolian family is of an olive colour and black eyes, flat nose and face, small stature,
black hair, no beard, and thick lips. It comprises the people of Central and Northern Asia,
Thibet, Ava, Pegu, Cambodia, Laos, and Siam; the Chinese, Japanese, Fins, and Esquimaux.

The Ethiopian family is black, with black and woolly hair, compressed skull, low forehead,
flat nose, and thick lips. It includes all Africans not comprehended in the Caucasian family.

The American family has a dark skin, a red tint, straight hair, a small beard, low forehead,
and broad face. It includes all the American tribes, except the Esquimaux.

The Malay family is brown, varying from a light tint to black. Their hair is black and curled,
head narrow, bones of the face prominent, nose broad, and mouth large. They inhabit Malacca,
Sumatra, Java, and the adjacent islands; Molucca, the Ladrones, New Holland, Van Dieman's Land,
New Guinea, New Zealand, and the South Sea Islands. They speak generally the Malay language.

The difference of character and disposition of these five families is familiar to every one;
they are as well known as is the superiority of the Caucasian to the other races, and as the
outward distinctions of their bodies and complexions. The reasons of this difference have been
variously assigned, some ascribing it to natural, others altogether to moral causes. By natural
causes we understand either that the constitutions of the races are such, that their capabilities
of informing their minds, and raising their intellectual powers, are essentially not the same;
or that the climate has an influence over both their bodies and minds. By moral causes, we
mean artificial or accidental ones arising out of the state of society; such as the nature
of the government, the plenty or poverty in which people live, a period of war or peace, the
power of public opinion, and such circumstances.

The effect of climate cannot of itself be sufficient to change the manners and habits of a
people. The instances of migratory nations seem to show this; the Jews are as cunning and fond
of money in Asia or Africa as they are in Poland or England; that extraordinary race, the Gipsies,
(which are now ascertained to be a Hindoo tribe, driven from their country in the fifteenth
century,) are not less thievish in Transylvania than in Scotland. The Armenians of Constantinople,
and other parts of the Levant, are represented to be of the same mild and persevering temper,
of the same honesty and skilfulness in their dealings, and the same kindness and civility of
manners, as before they were driven from their country by Sha-Abbas the Great. The changes,
however, in the habits and character of this people seem to mark the influence of their several
domestic situations. They were originally the most warlike of the Asiatic tribes; after their
subjection by the Persians, they engaged themselves entirely in the patient cultivation of
the soil; and since the period of the depopulation of Armenia, and their migrations into Persia,
Russia, Turkey, and other countries, they have been celebrated for their industry in commercial
concerns. They are bankers, money-brokers, merchants, surgeons, bakers, builders, chintz-printers,
and of all trades that can be imagined, and are represented as the most useful subjects in
the Ottoman empire, retaining at the same time an almost patriarchal simplicity in their domestic
manners. The English in the East and West Indies, in New South Wales, and in Canada, seldom
lose a relish for the habits and enjoyments they have been bred up in, whether they migrate
to the extremes of heat or of cold. John Bull is an Englishman in heart, and will remain so
under whatever sun his lot of life may be cast; for,

  Coelum, non animum, mutant, qui trans mare currunt.

We rarely find the Spaniards or Italians, or the natives of the South of Europe, lose their
ideality of character and their warm passions when settled permanently in England; the only
alteration in them seems to be such as the forms of society and intercourse with others has
led them to. Still the man is the same, though he may have adopted a new regime in the fashion
of his clothes, or the dishes of his dinner.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

FAIR ROSAMOND.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

In a late Number of the MIRROR, in which you have given a view of the Labyrinth at Woodstock,
and several particulars respecting Fair Rosamond, many doubts are stated relative to her death,
viz. how and what time. I therefore send you the following account from Collins's Peerage of
England:--

"Rosamond de Clifford was the eldest of the two daughters of Walter de Clifford, by Margaret
his wife, daughter and heir of Ralph de Toeny, Lord of Clifford Castle, in Herefordshire, (and
had with her the said castle and lands about it as an inheritance.) This Rosamond was the unfortunate
concubine of Henry II., for whom the king built that famous Labyrinth[2] at Woodstock, where
she lived so retired, as not easily to be found by his jealous queen. The king gave her a cabinet
of such elegant workmanship,[3] as showed the fighting of champions, moving of cattle, flying
of birds, and swimming of fish, which were so artfully represented, as if they had been alive.
She died 23rd Henry II. anno 1176, by poison (as was suspected) given her by Queen Eleanor,
and was buried in the Chapter-house of the Nunnery of Godstow."

G.F.

    [2] Chron. Joreval, 1151.
    [3] Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

GODSTOW NUNNERY.

On the banks of the Isis, about two miles from Oxford, are the remains of Godstow Nunnery.
It was founded towards the end of the reign of Henry I. by Editha, a lady of Winchester, and
when dissolved in the reign of Henry VIII. it was valued at £274. per annum. A considerable
portion of its buildings remained until the end of the reign of Charles I. about which time
they were accidentally destroyed by fire. The present remains consist chiefly of ranges of
walls on the north, south, and east sides of an extended area. Near the western extremity of
the high north wall are the remains of two buttresses. There is a small building which abuts
on the east, and ranges along the southern side, which was probably the Chapter House of the
Nuns. The walls are entire, the roof is of wood, and some of the rafter work is in fair preservation.
It is in this building that the remains of Rosamond are supposed to have been deposited, when
they were removed from the choir of the church, by the order of Hugh, Bishop of Lincoln, in
1191. On the north wall is painted a pretended copy of her epitaph in Latin. Many stone coffins
have at various times been found on this spot.

HALBERT H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCRAPS FROM TURKISH HISTORY.

(For the Mirror.)

First Landing of the Turks in Europe.--Orchanes, second king of the Turks, having settled his
monarchy in Lesser Asia, was determined to get footing in Europe. Solyman, his eldest son,
being willing to undertake the enterprise, was accordingly despatched with an army of veterans,
who crossed the Hellespont, and arrived on the European side. They soon afterwards seized many
considerable castles and cities belonging to the Greeks, who offered little or no resistance
to the invaders of their empire. These occurrences transpired about the year 1358.

A Woman's Revenge.--Mahomet the Great, on being proclaimed Sultan, caused his two innocent
brothers to be put to death; the mother of the youngest immediately afterwards went to the
new king, and reproached him severely for his cruelty. In order to appease her, he said, "that
it consisted with the policy of his state to do as he had done, but that whatever she asked
of him should be granted her." The lady, therefore, determining to be revenged, demanded one
of the sultan's chief bassas to be delivered to her. Mahomet, to keep his word, gave orders
that it should be done without delay; and the enraged lady, seeing the bassa bound before her,
first stabbed him, and then plucked out his liver, which she cast to the dogs.

Turkish Superstition.--Scanderbeg, prince of Epyrus, after many glorious victories, died on
the 17th of January, 1466, in the 53rd year of his age, and 24th of his reign. He was buried
with great solemnity in the cathedral at Lyssa. The Turks, nine years afterwards, took the
city, and dug up his bones for the purpose of setting them in rings and bracelets, thinking,
by this means, that they should partake of his invincible fortune.

Amurath's Dream.--About the year 1594, Amurath III. dreamed that he saw a man of prodigious
stature, with one foot raised upon the Tower of Constantinople, while the other reached over
the Bosphorus, and rested on the Asiatic shore. In one hand, the figure sustained the sun,
while the other held the moon. He struck his foot against the Tower of Constantinople, the
fall of which overthrew the great temple, and the imperial palace. Amurath, being greatly discomfited
by this dream, consulted his wizard, who informed him, "that it was a warning sent by their
prophet Mahomet, who threatened the overthrow of their religion and empire, unless Amurath
engaged his whole force against the Christians." This interpretation had so much influence
with the emperor, that he vowed not to lay down his arms until he had utterly exterminated
the Christians.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

TROUT FISHING.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--I shall now sum up this ticklish subject, by acquainting you with three more methods
of catching trout in Westmoreland.

Flood-netting.--A flood net is a small net with a semi-circular frame at the mouth of it, from
which projects a long handle. This is used only when there are floods; the fisher draws it
up the rivulets, and every now and then pulls it up to look for his success. Sometimes he nets
a great many at a time, and especially if he wait the arrival of the flood, because a large
shoal mostly comes down with the first torrents.

