PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 103.

July 16, 1892.

TO THE FIRST BATHING-MACHINE.

(AFTER WORDSWORTH.)

  O blank new-comer! I have seen,
    I see thee with a start:
  So gentle looking a Machine,
    Infernal one thou art!

  When first the sun feels rather hot,
    Or even rather warm,
  From some dim, hibernating spot
    Rolls forth thy clumsy form.

  Perhaps thou babblest to the sea
    Of sunshine and of flowers;
  Thou bringest but a thought to me
    Of such bad quarter hours.

  I, grasping tightly, pale with fear,
    Thy very narrow bench,
  Thou, bounding on in wild career,
    All shake, and jolt, and wrench.

  Till comes an unexpected stop;
    My forehead hits the door,
  And I, with cataclysmic flop,
    Lie on thy sandy floor.

  Then, dressed in Nature's simplest style,
    I, blushing, venture out;
  And find the sea is still a mile
    Away, or thereabout.

  Blithe little children on the sand
    Laugh out with childish glee;
  Their nurses, sitting near at hand,
    All giggling, stare at me.

  Unnerved, unwashed, I rush again
    Within thy tranquil shade,
  And wait until the rising main
    Shall banish child and maid.

  Thy doors I dare not open now,
    Thy windows give no view;
  'Tis late; I will not bathe, I vow:
    I dress myself anew.

  Set wide the door. All round is sea!
    "Hold tight, Sir!" voices call,
  And in the water, jerked from thee,
    I tumble, clothes and all!

  O blessed thing! this earth we pace
    Thy haunt should never be,
  A quite unmentionable place
    That is fit home for thee!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

STUDIES IN THE NEW POETRY.

NO. III.

It is with the greatest possible pleasure that Mr. Punch presents to his readers the following
example of the New Poetry. It is taken from a collection entitled "Rhymes of the Ropes" These
Rhymes are intended to illustrate the everyday life of the British prize-fighter, his simple
joys, his manly sorrows, his conversational excellences, and his indomitable pluck. The author
has never been a prize-fighter himself, but he claims for these Rhymes the merit of absolute
truth in every detail. In any case it is quite certain that every critic who reviews the volume
will say of it, that no previous book has ever presented to us, with such complete fidelity,
the British prize-fighter as he lives and moves, and has his being--not the gaudy, over-dressed
and over-jewelled creature whom the imagination of the public pictures as haunting the giddy
palaces of pleasure, and adored by the fairest of the fair, but the rough, uncouth, simple
creature to whom we Britons owe our reputation for pluck and stamina. How the critic knows
this, never having been a prize-fighter himself, and never having associated with them, is
a question which it might be difficult to answer. But, nevertheless, the critic will guarantee
the "Rhymes of the Ropes."

If some of Mr. Punch's readers, while recognising the force and go of the lines, shall think
them tant soit peu coarse and brutal, the fault must not be ascribed to Mr. Punch, but to the
brilliant young author. Moreover, Mr. Punch begs leave to say, that squeamishness of that kind
is becoming more and more absurd every day under the influence of the New Poetry and its professors.
Here then is--

KNOCKED OUT.

BY MR. R*D**RD K*PL*NG.

  Oh it's bully when I land 'em with a counter on the jaw,
  When the ruby's all a drippin' and the conks are red and raw;
  And it's bully when I've downed 'em, and the lords are standin'
          booze,
  Them lords with shiny shirt-fronts, and their patent-leather shoes.
        But you'd best look jolly meek
        When you're up afore the beak,
  For they hustle you, and bustle you, and treat you like a dog.
        And its 'Olloway for you
        For a month or may be two,
  Where the Widow keeps a mansion and purvides you with your prog.

  It was 'ero 'ere and 'ero there, I might 'ave been a King,
  For to 'ear 'em 'ip 'urraying as I stepped into the ring,
  When I faced the Tipton Slasher, me and 'im in four-ounce gloves,
  Just to make us look as 'armless as a pair o' bloomin' doves.
        Then I bruises 'im and batters,
        And 'e cuts my lips to tatters,
  And I gives 'im 'alf a dozen where 'is peepers ought to be.
        And 'e flattens out my nose
        With a brace of bally blows,
  Which I 'ardly 'ad expected from a pug as couldn't see.

  Next round the Slasher's groggy, 'e 'angs 'is 'ands and gropes
  (I'd knocked him orf 'is legs at last) a-feelin' for the ropes.
  And, lor, 'e looked so cheerful with 'is face a mask of red
  That I bust myself with laughin' when I bashed 'im on the 'ead.
        Then they counted up to ten,
        But 'e couldn't rise again;
  'E gasped a bit, and puffed a bit, and laid there in a 'eap.
        And I copped a thousand pounds
        For a fight of seven rounds,
  Which was all the time it took me for to put my man to sleep.

  Ah, the soft uns call it brutal; there's Mr. H.P. COBB,
  And 'is talk, which isn't pretty, about ruffians (meanin' us).
  I'd like to tap 'is claret when 'e's up and on the job,
  And send 'im 'ome a 'owlin' to 'is mammy or 'is nuss.
        But I'd rather take the chuck
        For a show of British pluck,
  And do my month in chockee, and eat my skilly free;
        And I'll leave the curs to snivel
        With their 'Ouse o' Commons drivel,
  Which may suit a pack of jaw-pots, but, by gosh, it don't suit me.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What I suffer from, at this time of year, when I go into the country," says Mrs. R., "is 'Flybites.'"
She pronounced it as a word of three syllables, and then added, "I rather think the learned
way of spelling it is 'Phlybites.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CORIOLANUS.

  "I would he had continu'd to his country
  As he began, and not unknit, himself,
  The noble knot he made."

Coriolanus, Act IV., Scene 2.

"His Majesty discriminates between the Prince BISMARCK of former times, and of to-day, and
is anxious that his Government should avoid everything which might tend to diminish, in the
eyes of the German nation, the familiar figure of its greatest Statesman."--Instructions to
Imperial German Representatives abroad:--

  Can this be he who "At the Gates"[1]
    Of Janus' Temple stood of old,
    Protective, vigilant, and bold,
  As one who calmly dares--and waits?

  "So fancy limns him, who'll not cease
    To watch o'er what his brain upbuilt,"
    Punch sang. And now he lifts the hilt,
  Warlike, against a Patriot Peace.

  Calm warder then, challenger now.
    The tower he reared would he attack,
    Because--they have not called him back
  Like CINCINNATUS from the plough?

  "The wounds that he doth bear for Rome,"
    Should speak wide-lipped against the change.
    The new Coriolanus! Strange,
  So great a past to this should come!

  The imperious Roman, banished, bared
    Against Rome's walls a traitor blade.
    But you--revenge is scarce your trade,
  Hero, in faction's mazes snared.

  The shirt of Nessus poisoned not,
    Nor angered Hercules as you
    Seem angered, poisoned. Yet you knew
  On ARNIM's shield to bare the blot.

  What should it say, Count HARRY's ghost,
    Could it beside your couch appear,
    And whisper in his foeman's ear?
  Share you not that which shamed him most?

  You flaunt the Press against the Throne?
    You bare State secrets to the crowd?
    You who against the Mob were loud,
  With mockery MARCIUS well might own?

  It doth not fit a splendid past.
    The Sentinel in arms arrayed
    Against the Citadel, a shade
  Of gloom o'er glory's sheen will cast.

  The illustrious name of BISMARCK blot
    With no such treason as could dim
    The Roman's glory, nor, like him.
  Yourself unknit your "noble knot"!

[Footnote 1: See Cartoon "At the Gates," p. 151, vol. 85, year 1883.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THAT DUTCHMAN OOMS.

AIR--"THE ADMIRAL'S BROOM."

    [J.J.K. OOMS, an amateur sculler from Amsterdam, won easily
    the "Diamond Sculls" at Henley this year, beating V. NICKALS,
    and others of our crack oars.]

  Oh, OOMS was a champion brave and bold,
    The Dutchman's pride was he;
  And he cried, "I can row on the Thames, I know,
    As well as the Zuyder Zee,
            As well as the Zuyder Zee!"
  And as his boat he set afloat,
    And looked o'er the Henley tide,
  He saw all England taking note,
    And he trimmed his sculls and cried:--(Bis.)
      "I'll win those 'Sculls!'" said he,
      "The 'Diamond Sculls' for me!
  That the world may know, wherever I go
  Thames yields to the Zuyder Zee!" (Bis.)

  Cried JOHN BULL, "Here! You Dutchman queer.
    To-day you must row with me;
  For while I ride Thames' silver tide,
    I'll be second to none," said he;
        "I'll be second to none," said he.
  So they blazed away at that Dutchman gay,
    Stout NICKALS, brave BOYD, and all--
  But the Dutchman's ship our best did whip,
    And BULL cried to his merry men all, (bis)
      "We're whipped, boys, for once," said he,
      "It's a whip that's a licker to me."
  Right well OOMS pulls, and the 'Diamond Sculls'
      Are gone to the Zuyder Zee!
      VAN TROMP with his broom made free,
      But this OOMS has "swept" Hen-ley.
  Here's his health! But oh! those Sculls, you know,
    Must come back from the Zuyder Zee."

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME COMFORT.--Harrow beat Eton at Lords' last week. The Etonians have some consolation in
the fact of the Head-Master of Harrow being an Etonian. Without doing violence to their feelings,
they can simply pronounce the Head-Master's name, and say, "Well done, Harrow!"

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW READING OF AN OLD GREEK PROVERB (by a disappointed Author, whose Work has been recently
cut up in the Press).--"[Greek: Krêtai aei Pseustai]." I.e., "Critics are always liars."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE FLY-LEAF OF AN OLD BOOK.

  It's long been loose; at last it's quite
  Come out--the very thing to write
  My laundry list on. Think what might
            Have been upon it!
  Some lines by GOLDSMITH, neatly planned,
  A verse by BYRON, mighty grand,
  Or even, penned by SHAKSPEARE's hand,
            A song or sonnet;

  DA VINCI might have made a sketch,
  Or REMBRANDT drawn a head to etch,
  Or TURNER dashed some tints--'twould fetch
            A thousand guineas.
  Here might have been some notes, compiled
  By IBSEN, MAETERLINCK, or WILDE,
  On how some writers have beguiled
            Some simple ninnies;

  Some words on Cooks, by RANDOLPH C.,
  Or Greek Home Rule, by Grand Old G.,
  Some Irish notes by A.J.B.,
            A cheque from DILLON.
  How useless now to think what might
  Have been, for I have blacked the white!
  It is not even fit to write
            A washing-bill on!

       *       *       *       *       *

CHURCH AND BOOTH.--The Archbishop of CANTERBURY was recently a guest at the Munching House
on the occasion of an Undenominational Banquet. His Grace, in a post-prandial speech, observed
that the Salvation Army came "fluting" among us, but he thought that the Army's success would
be as "fleeting" as it was "fluting." Neat this for his Grace-after-dinner. This was a nice
after-dinner way of giving "caviare to the General." No "laughter" appears to have followed,
so the caviare was not generally taken.

