This lizard is remarkable for having no external ear; and it has acquired its generic name
from the curious horn-like process on the extremity of the nose. This horn, as it is found
in mature males of ten inches in length, is five lines long, conical, pointed, and slightly
curved; a miniature form of the formidable weapon, from which the Rhinoceros takes its name.
But the comparison does not hold good either from an anatomical or a physiological point of
view. For, whilst the horn of the rhinoceros is merely a dermal production, a conglomeration
of hairs cemented into one dense mass as hard as bone, and answering the purpose of a defensive
weapon, besides being used for digging up the roots on which the animal lives; the horn of
the ceratophora is formed of a soft, spongy substance, coated by the rostral shield, which
is produced into a kind of sheath. Although flexible, it always remains erect, owing to the
elasticity of its substance. Not having access to a living specimen, which would afford the
opportunity of testing conjecture, we are left to infer from the internal structure of this
horn, that it is an erectile organ which, in moments of irritation, will swell like the comb
of a cock. This opinion as to its physiological nature is confirmed by the remarkable circumstance
that, like the rudimentary comb of the hen and young cocks, the female and the immature males
of the ceratophora have the horn exceedingly small. In mature females of eight inches in length
(and the females appear always to be smaller than the males), the horn is only one half or
one line long; while in immature males five inches in length, it is one line and a half.

Among the specimens sent from Ceylon by Dr. Kelaart, and now in the British Museum, there is
one which so remarkably differs from C. Stoddartii, that it attracted my attention, by the
peculiar form of this rostral appendage. Dr. Günther pronounced it to be a new species; and
Dr. Gray concurring in this opinion, they have done me the honour to call it Ceratophora Tennentii.
Its "horn" somewhat resembles the comb of a cock not only in its internal structure, but also
in its external appearance; it is nearly six lines long by two broad, slightly compressed,
soft, flexile, and extensible, and covered with a corrugated, granular skin. It bears no resemblance
to the depressed rostral hump of Lyriocephalus, and the differences of the new species from
the latter lizard may be easily seen from the annexed drawing and the notes given below.[1]

[Footnote 1: The specimen in the British Museum is apparently an adult male, ten inches long,
and is, with regard to the distribution of the scales and the form of the head very similar
to C. Stoddartii. The posterior angles of the orbit are not projecting, but there is a small
tubercle behind them; and a pair of somewhat larger tubercles on the neck. The gular sac is
absent. There are five longitudinal quadrangular, imbricate scales on each side of the throat;
and the sides of the body present a nearly horizontal series of similar scales. The scales
on the median line of the back scarcely form a crest; it is, however distinct on the nape of
the neck. The scales on the belly, on the extremities, and on the tail are slightly keeled.
Tail nearly round. Of these the last is very common in the houses of Colombo. Colour, grey;
sides with small granules; thumb short; chin-shields four; tail rounded with transverse series
of small spines; femoral and preanal pores in a continuous line. The differences, however,
between the two, when once ascertained, are sufficiently marked, to prevent their being afterwards
confounded. The head of the alligator is broader and the snout less prolonged, and the canine
teeth of the under jaw, instead of being received into foramina in the upper, as in the crocodile,
fit into furrows on each side of it. The legs of the alligator, too, are not denticulated,
and the feet are only semi-palmate.

The following drawing exhibits a cranium of each.

The instincts of the crocodiles in Ceylon do not lead to any variation from the habits of those
found in other countries. To assist in this, the natives assure me that the reptile contrives
to fasten the carcase behind the roots of a mangrove or some other convenient tree and tears
off each piece by a backward spring.

[Footnote 1: Crocodilus biporcatus. One morning, about sunrise, when riding across the sandy
plain near the old fort of Moeletivoe, we came suddenly upon a crocodile asleep under some
bushes of the Buffalo-thorn, several hundred yards from the water. The terror of the poor wretch
was extreme, when it awoke and found itself discovered and completely surrounded. It was a
hideous creature, upwards of ten feet long, and evidently of prodigious strength, had it been
in a condition to exert it, but consternation completely paralysed it. It started to its feet
and turned round in a circle hissing and clanking its bony jaws, with its ugly green eye intently
fixed upon us. On being struck with a stick, it lay perfectly quiet and apparently dead. Presently
it looked cunningly round, and made a rush towards the water, but on a second blow it lay again
motionless and feigning death. We tried to rouse it, but without effect, pulled its tail, slapped
its back, struck its hard scales, and teased it in every way, but all in vain; nothing would
induce it to move till accidentally my son, then a boy of twelve years old, tickled it gently
under the arm, and in an instant it drew the limb close to its side and turned to avoid a repetition
of the experiment. Again it was touched under the other arm, and the same emotion was exhibited,
the great monster twisting about like an infant to avoid being tickled. The scene was highly
amusing, but the sun was rising high, and we pursued our journey to Moeletivoe, leaving the
crocodile to make its way to the adjoining lake.

[Footnote 1: A native gentleman who resided for a long time at Caltura tells me that in the
rivers which flow into the sea, both there and at Bentotte, crocodiles are frequently caught
in corrals, formed of stakes driven into the ground in shallow water, and so constructed, that
when the reptile enters to seize the bait placed within, the aperture closes behind and secures
him. A professional "crocodile charmer" then enters muttering a spell, and with one end of
a stick pats the creature gently on the head for a time. The operator then boldly mounts astride
upon its shoulders, and continues to soothe it with his one hand, whilst with the other he
contrives to pass a rope under its body, by which it is at last dragged on shore. During a
severe drought in 1844, they deserted a tank near Kornegalle and traversed the town during
the night, on their way to another reservoir in the suburb; two or three fell into the wells;
others in their trepidation, laid eggs in the street, and some were found entangled in garden
fences and killed.

The lagoon of Batticaloa, and indeed all the still waters of this district, are remarkable
for the numbers and prodigious size of the crocodiles which infest them. Their teeth are sometimes
so large that the natives mount them with silver lids and use them for boxes to carry the powdered
chunam, which they chew with the betel leaf. During one of my visits to the lake a crocodile
was caught within a few yards of the government agent's residence, a hook having been laid
the night before, baited with the entrails of a goat; and made fast, in the native fashion,
by a bunch of fine cords, which the creature cannot gnaw asunder as it would a solid rope,
since they sink into the spaces between its teeth. The one taken was small, being only about
ten or eleven feet in length, whereas they are frequently killed from fifteen to nineteen feet
long. As long as it was in the water, it made strong resistance to being hauled on shore, carrying
the canoe out into the deep channel, and occasionally raising its head above the surface, and
clashing its jaws together menacingly. This action has a horrid sound, as the crocodile has
no fleshy lips; and it brings its teeth and the bones of the mouth together with a loud crash,
like the clank of two pieces of hard wood. After playing it a little, the boatmen drew it to
land, and when once fairly on the shore all courage and energy seemed utterly to desert it.
It tried once or twice to regain the water, but at last lay motionless and perfectly helpless
on the sand. It was no easy matter to kill it; a rifle ball sent diagonally through its breast
had little or no effect, and even when the shot had been repeated more than once, it was as
full of life as ever.[1] It feigned death and lay motionless, with its eye closed; but, on
being pricked with a spear, it suddenly regained all its activity. It was at last finished
by a harpoon, and then opened. Its maw contained several small tortoises, and a quantity of
broken bricks and gravel, taken medicinally, to promote digestion.

"A curious incident occurred some years ago on the Maguruganga, a stream which flows through
the Pasdun Corle, to join the Bentolle river. A man was fishing seated on the branch of a tree
that overhung the water; and to shelter himself from the drizzling rain, he covered his head
and shoulder with a bag folded into a shape common with the natives. While in this attitude,
a leopard sprang upon him from the jungle, but missing its aim, seized the bag and not the
man, and fell with it into the river. Here a crocodile, which had been eyeing the angler is
despair, seized the leopard as it fell, and sunk with it to the bottom."--Letter from GOONE-RATNE
Modliar, interpreter of the Supreme Court, 10th Jany., 1861.]

During our journeys we had numerous opportunities of observing the habits of these hideous
creatures, and I am far from considering them so formidable as they are usually supposed to
be. They are evidently not wantonly destructive; they act only under the influence of hunger,
and even then their motions on land are awkward and ungainly, their action timid, and their
whole demeanour devoid of the sagacity and courage which characterise other animals of prey.

TESTUDINATA. These fresh-water tortoises, the greater number of which are included in the genus
Emys of naturalists, are distinguished by having their toes webbed. Their shell is less convex
than that of their congeners on land (but more elevated than that of the sea-turtle); and it
has been observed that the more rounded the shell, the nearer does the terrapin approach to
the land-tortoise both in its habits and in the choice of its food. Some of them live upon
animal as well as vegetable food, and those which subsist exclusively on the former, are noted
as having the flattest shells. They thrive in captivity, provided that they have a regular
supply of water and of meat, cut into small pieces and thrown to them. The tropical species,
if transferred to a colder climate, should have arrangements made for enabling them to hybernate
during the winter: they will die in a very short time if exposed to a temperature below the
freezing point.[1]

[Footnote 1: Of the Emys trijuga, the fresh water tortoise figured on preceding page, the technical
characteristics are;--vertical plates lozenge-shaped; shell convex and oval; with three more
or less distinct longitudinal keels; shields corrugated; with areola situated in the upper
posterior corner. A very repulsive spectacle is exhibited in the markets of Jaffna by the mode
in which the flesh of the turtle is sold piece-meal, whilst the animal is still alive, by the
families of the Tamil fishermen. The creatures are to be seen in the market-place undergoing
this frightful mutilation; the plastron and its integuments having been previously removed,
and the animal thrown on its back, so as to display all the motions of the heart, viscera,
and lungs. A broad knife, from twelve to eighteen inches in length, is first inserted at the
left side, and the women, who are generally the operators, introduce one hand to scoop out
the blood, which oozes slowly. The blade is next passed round, till the lower shell is detached
and placed on one side, and the internal organs exposed in full action. A customer, as he applies,
is served with any part selected, which is cut off as ordered, and sold by weight. Each of
the fins is thus successively removed, with portions of the fat and flesh, the turtle showing,
by its contortions, that each act of severance is productive of agony. In this state it lies
for hours, writhing in the sun, the heart[2] and head being usually the last pieces selected,
and till the latter is cut off the snapping of the mouth, and the opening and closing of the
eyes, show that life is still inherent, even when the shell has been nearly divested of its
contents. This gave rise to the trade in tortoise-shell at Point de Galle, where it is still
manufactured into articles of ornament by the Moors; but the shell they employ is almost entirely
imported from the Maldives. As if conscious that if she went and returned by one and the same
line across the sandy beach, her hiding place would be discovered at its farthest extremity,
she resorts to the expedient of curving her course, so as to regain the sea by a different
track; and after depositing the eggs, burying them about eighteen inches deep, she carefully
smoothes over the surface to render the precise spot indiscernible. The Singhalese, aware of
this device, sound her line of, march with a rod till they come upon the concealed nest. It
is likely, too, that they are killed by the jungle-cocks; for they are frequently eaten by
the common barn-door fowl in Ceylon. This is rendered the more probable by the fact, that in
those districts where the extension of cultivation, and the visits of sportsmen, have reduced
the numbers of the jungle-cocks and pea-fowl, snakes have perceptibly increased. The deer also
are enemies of the snakes, and the natives who have had opportunities of watching their encounters
assert that they have seen deer rush upon a serpent and crush it by leaping on it with all
its four feet. As to the venomous powers of snakes, DR. DAVY, whose attention was carefully
directed to the poisonous serpents of Ceylon[3], came to the conclusion that but four, out
of twenty species examined by him, were venomous, and that of these only two (the tic-polonga[4]
and cobra de capello[5]) were capable of inflicting a wound likely to be fatal to man. But
Dr. Davy's estimate of the venom of the carawala is below the truth, as cases have been authenticated
to me, in which death from its bite ensued within a few days. The effect, however, is not uniformly
fatal; a circumstance which the natives explain by asserting that there are three varieties
of the carawala, named the hil-la, the dunu, and the mal-carawala; the second being the largest
and the most dreaded.

[Footnote 1: Genesis iii. 15.]

[Footnote 2: This is not likely to be true: in a very large collection of snakes made in Ceylon
by Mr. C.R. Butler, and recently examined by Dr. Günther, of the British Museum, only a single-specimen
proved to be new.

There is, however, one venomous snake, of the existence of which I am assured by a native correspondent
in Ceylon, no mention has yet been made by European naturalists. It is called M[=a]pil[=a]
by the Singhalese; it is described to me as being about four feet in length, of the diameter
of the little finger, and of a uniform dark brown colour. It is said to be often seen in company
with another snake called in Singhalese Lay Medilla, a name which implies its deep red hue.
The latter is believed to be venomous. It would be well if some collector in Ceylon would send
home for examination the species which respectively bear these names.]

[Footnote 3: See DAVY'S Ceylon, ch. xiv.]

[Footnote 4: Daboia elegans, Daud.]

[Footnote 5: Naja tripudians, Merr.]

[Footnote 6: Trigonocephalus hypnale, Merr.]

In like manner, the tic-polonga, particularised by Dr. Davy, is said to be but one out of seven
varieties of that formidable reptile. The word "tic" means literally the "spotted" polonga,
from the superior clearness of the markings on its scales. Another, the nidi, or "sleeping"
polonga, is so called from the fact that a person bitten by it is soon prostrated by a lethargy
from which he never awakes.[1] These formidable serpents so infested the official residence
of the District Judge of Trincomalie in 1858, as to compel his family to abandon it. In another
instance, a friend of mine, going hastily to take a supply of wafers from an open tin case
which stood in his office, drew back his hand, on finding the box occupied by a tic-polonga
coiled within it. I have heard of an eighth, the palla-polonga.

Amongst the numerous pieces of folk-lore in Ceylon in connexion with snakes, is the belief
that a deadly enmity subsists between the polonga and the cobra de capello, and that the latter,
which is naturally shy and retiring, is provoked to conflicts by the audacity of its rival.
Hence the proverb applied to persons at enmity, that "they hate like the polonga and cobra."

The Singhalese believe the polonga to be by far the most savage and wanton of the two, and
they illustrate this by a popular legend, that once upon a time a child, in the absence of
its mother, was playing beside a tub of water, which a cobra, impelled by thirst during a long-continued
drought, approached to drink, the unconscious child all the while striking it with its hands
to prevent the intrusion. The cobra, on returning, was met by a tic-polonga, which seeing its
scales dripping with delicious moisture, entreated to be told the way to the well. The cobra,
knowing the vicious habits of the other snake, and anticipating that it would kill the innocent
child which it had so recently spared, at first refused, and only yielded on condition that
the infant was not to be molested. The work is quoted, but not correctly, in the Ceylon Times
for January, 1857.

[Footnote 1: Coryphodon Blumenbachii. There is a belief in Ceylon that the bite of the rat-snake,
though harmless to man, is fatal to black cattle. The Singhalese add that it would be equally
so to man were the wound to be touched by cow-dung. This inestimable stone is called the n[=a]ga-m[=a]nik-kya;
but not one snake in thousands is supposed to possess such a treasure. The cobra, before eating,
is believed to cast it up and conceal it for the moment; else its splendour, like a flambeau,
would attract all beholders. The tales of the peasantry, in relation to it, all turn upon the
devices of those in search of the gem, and the vigilance and cunning of the cobra by which
they are baffled; the reptile itself being more enamoured of the priceless jewel than even
its most ardent pursuers. They have the body of a snake, but the cleft of their mouth is very
narrow, and they are unable to detach the lateral parts of the lower jaw from each other, as
the true snakes do when devouring a prey. The most striking character of the group, however,
is the size and form of the tail; this is very short, and according to the observations of
Professor Peters of Berlin[1], shorter in the female than in the male. It does not terminate
in a point as in other snakes, but is truncated obliquely, the abrupt surface of its extremity
being either entirely flat, or more or less convex, and always covered with rough keels. The
reptile assists its own movements by pressing the rough end to the ground, and from this peculiar
form of the tail, the family has received the name of Uropeltidæ, or "Shield-tails." Within
a very recent period important additions have been made to this family. which now consists
of four genera and eleven species. Those occurring in Ceylon are enumerated in the List appended
to this chapter.

[Footnote 1: PETERS, De Serpentum familia Uropeltaceorum. Berol, 4. 1861.]

[Footnote 2: The Uropeltis grandis of Kelaart, which was at first supposed to be a new species,
proves to be identical with U. Phillippinus of Cuvier. It is doubtful, however, whether this
species be found in the Phillippine Islands, as stated by Cuvier; and it is more than, probable
that the typical specimen came from Ceylon--a further illustration of the affinity of the fauna
of Ceylon to that of the Eastern Archipelago. The characteristics of this reptile, as given
by Dr. GRAY, are as follows:--"Caudal disc subcircular, with large scattered tubercles; snout
subacute, slightly produced. Dark brown, lighter below, with some of the scales dark brown
in the centre near the posterior edge. GRAY, Proceed. Zool. Soc.

The Singhalese assert that when it has swallowed a deer, or any animal of similarly inconvenient
bulk, the python draws itself through the narrow aperture between two trees, in order to crush
the bones and assist in the process of deglutition.

It is a singular fact that the small and innocuous ground-snakes called Calamariæ, which abound
on the continent of India and in the islands are not to be found in Ceylon; where they would
appear to be replaced by two singular genera, the Aspidura and Haplocercus, These latter have
only one series of shields below the tail, whilst most other harmless snakes (Calamaria included)
have a double series of sub-candals. The Aspidura has been known to naturalists for many years[1];
the Haplocercus of Ceylon has only recently been described by Dr. Günther, and of it not more
than three existing specimens are known: hence its habits and the extent of its distribution
over the island are still left in uncertainty.[2]

[Footnote 1: Boie in Isis 1827 p. 517.]

[Footnote 2: GÜNTH. Col. Snakes, p. 14. In the hope that some inquirer in Ceylon will be able
to furnish such information as may fill up this blank in the history of the haplocercus, the
following particulars are here appended. The largest of the specimens in the British Museum
is about twenty-five inches in length; the body thin, and much elongated; the head narrow,
and not distinct from the neck, the tail of moderate length. Forehead covered by three shields,
one anterior and two posterior frontals; no loreal shield; one small shield before, two behind
the eye; seven shields along the upper lip, the eye being above the fourth. The scales are
disposed in seventeen longitudinal series; they are lanceolate and strongly keeled. The upper
parts are uniform blackish or brown, with two dorsal rows of small indistinct black spots;
occiput with a whitish collar, edged with darker. Surrounding Elie House, near Colombo, in
which I resided, were a number of tall casuarinas and India-rubber trees, whose branches almost
touched the lattices of the window of the room in which I usually sat. These were a favourite
resort of the tree-snakes, and in the early morning the numbers which clung to them were sometimes
quite remarkable. I had thus an opportunity of observing the action of these creatures, which
seems to me one of vigilance rather than of effort, the tongue being in perpetual activity,
as if it were an organ of feeling; and in those in which the nose is elongated, a similar mobility
and restlessness, especially when alarmed, affords evidence of the same faculty.

The general characteristic of the Tree-snake is an exceedingly thin and delicate body, often
adorned with colours exquisite as those of the foliage amongst which they live concealed. In
some of the South American species the tints vie in brilliancy with those of the humming-birds;
whilst their forms are so flexible and slender as to justify the name conferred on them of
"whip-snakes." The Siamese, to denote these combinations of grace and splendour, call them
"Sun-beams." A naturalist[1], describing a bright green species in Brazil (Philodryas viridissimus),
writes: "I am always delighted when I find that another tree-snake has settled in my garden.
You look for a bird's nest, the young ones have gone, but you find their bed occupied by one
of these beautiful creatures, which will coil up its body of two feet in length within a space
no larger than the hollow of your hand. They appear to be always watchful; for at the instant
you discover one, the quick playing of the long, black, forked tongue will show you that you
too are observed. On perceiving the slightest sign of your intention to disturb it, the snake
will dart upwards through the branches and over the leaves which scarcely appear to bend beneath
the weight. A moment more, and you have lost sight of it. Whenever I return to Europe, you
may be sure that in my hot-house those harmless, lovely creatures shall not be missing."

[Footnote 1: Dr. WUCHERER of Bahia.]

Ceylon has several species of Tree-snakes, and one of the most common is the green Passerita,
easily recognized from its bright colour and from the pointed moveable appendage, into which
the snout is prolonged. The snakes of this genus being active chiefly during the night, the
pupil of the eye is linear and horizontal. They never willingly descend from trees, but prey
there upon nocturnal Saurians, geckoes, small birds and their young; and they are perfectly
harmless, although they often try to bite. It is strange that none of the numerous specimens
which it has been attempted to bring to Europe have ever fed in captivity; whilst in South
America they take their food freely in confinement, provided that some green plants are placed
in their cage.

In Ceylon I have never seen any specimen of a larger size than three feet; whilst they are
known to attain to more than five on the Indian Continent.

The inference is obvious, that the green coloration of the majority of tree-snakes has more
or less connection with their habits and mode of life. Indeed, whenever a green-coloured snake
is observed, it may at once be pronounced, if slender or provided with a prehensile tail, to
be of the kind which passes its life on trees; but if it be short-bodied then it lives on the
prairies. There are nevertheless tree-snakes which have a very different coloration; and one
of the most remarkable species is the Passerita fusca or Dryinus fuscus, of which a figure
is annexed. It closely resembles the green Passerita in form, so that naturalists have considered
it to be a mere variety. It is entirely of a shining brown, shot with purple, and the yellow
longitudinal stripe which runs along the side of the belly of the green species, is absent
in this one. It is much more rare than the green one, and does not appear to be found in Hindostan:
no intermediate forms have been observed in Ceylon.

[Footnote 1: Chersydrus granulatus, Merr.; Cerberus cinereus. Daud.; Tropidophis schistosus, Daud.]

The sea-snakes of the Indian tropics did not escape the notice of the early Greek mariners
who navigated those seas; and amongst the facts collected by them, Ælian has briefly recorded
that the Indian Ocean produces serpents with flattened tails[1], whose bite, he adds, is to
be dreaded less for its venom than the laceration of its teeth. The first statement is accurate,
but the latter is incorrect, as there is an all but unanimous concurrence of opinion that every
species of this family of serpents is more or less poisonous. The compression of the tail noticed
by Ælian is one of the principal characteristics of these reptiles, as their motion through
the water is mainly effected by its aid, coupled with the undulating movement of the rest of
the body. Their scales, instead of being imbricated like those of land-snakes, form hexagons;
and those on the belly, instead of being scutate and enlarged, are nearly of the same size
and form as on other parts of the body.

[Footnote 1: "[Greek: Plateis tas ouras]." ÆLIAN, L. xvi. c. 8.

Ælian speaks elsewhere of fresh-water snakes. His remark on the compression of the tail shows
that his informants were aware of this speciality in those that inhabit the sea.]

Sea-snakes (Hydrophis) are found on all the coasts of Ceylon. I have sailed through large shoals
of them in the Gulf of Manaar, close to the pearl-banks of Aripo. The fishermen of Calpentyn
on the west live in perpetual dread of them, and believe their bite to be fatal. In the course
of an attempt which was recently made to place a lighthouse on the great rocks of the south-east
coast, known by seamen as the Basses[1], or Baxos, the workmen who first landed found the portion
of the surface liable to be covered by the tides, honeycombed, and hollowed into deep holes
filled with water, in which were abundance of fishes and some molluscs. Some of these cavities
also contained sea-snakes from four to five feet long, which were described as having the head
"hooded like the cobra de capello, and of a light grey colour, slightly speckled. They coiled
themselves like serpents on land, and darted at poles thrust in among them. The Singhalese
who accompanied the party, said that they not only bit venomously, but crushed the limb of
any intruder in their coils."[2]

[Footnote 1: The Basses are believed to be the remnants of the great island of Giri, swallowed
up by the sea.--Mahawanso, ch. i. p. 4. They may possibly be the Bassæ of Ptolemy's map of
Taprobane.]

[Footnote 2: Official Report to the Governor of Ceylon.]

