We looked on the great valley of the Arno, perhaps twenty-five miles long, and five or six
broad, lying like a long elliptical basin sunk among the hills. I can liken it to nothing but
a vast sea; for a dense, blue mist covered the level surface, through which the domes of Florence
rose up like a craggy island, while the thousands of scattered villas resembled ships, with
spread sails, afloat on its surface. The sharp, cutting wind soon drove us down, with a few
hundred bounds, to the path again. Three more hungry mortals did not dine at the Cacciatore
that day.

The chapel of the Medici, which we visited, is of wonderful beauty. The walls are entirely
encrusted with pietra dura and the most precious kinds of marble. The ceiling is covered with
gorgeous frescoes by Benevenuto, a modern painter. Around the sides, in magnificent sarcophagi
of marble and jasper, repose the ashes of a few Cosmos and Ferdinands. I asked the sacristan
for the tomb of Lorenzo the Magnificent. "Oh!" said he, "he lived during the republic--he has
no tomb; these are only for Dukes!" I could not repress a sigh at the lavish waste of labor
and treasure on this one princely chapel. They might have slumbered unnoted, like Lorenzo,
if they had done as much for their country and Italy.

December 19.--It is with a heavy heart, that I sit down tonight to make my closing note in
this lovely city and in the journal which has recorded my thoughts and impressions since leaving
America. I should find it difficult to analyze my emotions, but I know that they oppress me
painfully. So much rushes at once over the mind and heart--memories of what has passed through
both, since I made the first note in its pages--alternations of hope and anxiety and aspiration,
but never despondency--that it resembles in a manner, the closing of a life. I seem almost
to have lived through the common term of a life in this short period. Much spiritual and mental
experience has crowded into a short time the sensations of years. Painful though some of it
has been, it was still welcome. Difficulty and toil give the soul strength to crush, in a loftier
region, the passions which draw strength only from the earth. So long as we listen to the purer
promptings within us, there is a Power invisible, though not unfelt, who protects us--amid
the toil and tumult and soiling struggle, there is ever an eye that watches, ever a heart that
overflows with Infinite and Almighty Love! Let us trust then in that Eternal Spirit, who pours
out on us his warm and boundless blessings, through the channels of so many kindred human hearts!

CHAPTER XXXIX.

WINTER TRAVELING AMONG THE APPENINES.

Valley of the Arno, Dec 22.--It is a glorious morning after our two days' walk, through rain
and mud, among these stormy Appenines. The range of high peaks, among which is the celebrated
monastery of Camaldoli, lie just before us, their summits dazzling with the new fallen snow.
The clouds are breaking away, and a few rosy flushes announce the approach of the sun. It has
rained during the night, and the fields are as green and fresh as on a morning in spring.

