From the Carthusian monastery Oswald repaired to that of St Bonaventure, built upon the ruins
of the palace of Nero; there, where so many crimes have been committed without remorse, poor
monks, tormented by scruples of conscience, impose upon themselves the most cruel punishment
for the slightest fault. "Our only hope," said one of these devotees, "is that at the hour
of death our sins will not have exceeded our penances." Lord Nelville, as he entered this monastery
struck his foot against a trap, and asking the use of it--"It leads to our place of interment;"
said one of the young monks, who was already struck with the malady caused by the malaria.
The inhabitants of the south being very much afraid of death, we are astonished to find institutions
in Italy which fix the ideas upon this point; but it is natural to be fond of thoughts that
inspire us with dread. There is, as it were, an intoxication of sadness, which does good to
the soul by occupying it entirely.

An ancient Sarcophagus of a young child serves for the fountain to this convent. The beautiful
Palm-tree of which Rome boasts, is the only tree of any sort in the garden of these monks;
but they pay no attention to external objects. Their discipline is too rigorous to allow any
kind of latitude to the mind. Their looks are cast down, their gait is slow, they make no use
of their will. They have abdicated the government of themselves, so fatiguing is this empire
to its sad possessor. This day, however, did not produce much emotion in the soul of Oswald;
the imagination revolts at death, presented under all its various forms in a manner so manifestly
intentional. When we unexpectedly meet this memento mori, when it is nature and not man that
speaks to our soul, the impression we receive is much deeper.

Oswald felt the most calm and gentle sensations when, at sunset, he entered the garden of San
Giovanni e Paolo. The monks of this monastery are subjected to a much less rigid discipline,
and their garden commands a view of all the ruins of ancient Rome. From this spot is seen the
Coliseum, the Forum, and all the triumphal arches, the obelisks, and the pillars which remain
standing. What a fine situation for such an asylum! The secluded monks are consoled for their
own nothingness, in contemplating the monuments raised by those who are no more. Oswald strolled
for a long time beneath the umbrageous walks of this garden, whose beautiful trees sometimes
interrupt for a moment the view of Rome, only to redouble the emotion which is felt on beholding
it again. It was that hour of the evening, when all the bells in Rome are heard chiming the
Ave Maria.

     ----------------squilla di lontano
     Che paja il giorno pianger che si muore.
                                          DANTE.

     ----------------the vesper bell from far,
     That seems to mourn for the expiring day.
                                      CAREY'S TR.

The evening prayer is used to fix the time. In Italy they say: I will see you an hour before,
or an hour after the Ave Maria: and the different periods of the day and of the night, are
thus religiously designated. Oswald enjoyed the admirable spectacle of the sun which towards
the evening descends slowly in the midst of the ruins, and appears for a moment submitted to
the same destiny as the works of man. Oswald felt all his habitual thoughts revive within him.
Corinne herself was too charming, and promised too much happiness to occupy his mind at this
moment. He sought the spirit of his father in the clouds, where the force of imagination traced
his celestial form, and made him hope to receive from heaven some pure and beneficent breath,
as the benediction of his sainted parent.

Chapter ii.

