This excursion was one of the frank displays of human hopes, yearnings, and vanities, that
sometimes take place on steamboats. Feathers had a hectic brilliancy that proved secret, dumb
longings. Pendants known as "lavaleers" hung from necks otherwise innocent of the costly fopperies
of Versailles. Old ladies clad in princess dresses with yachting caps worn rakishly on their
grey hair, vied with other old ladies in automobile bonnets, who, with opera glasses, searched
out the meaning of every passing buoy. Young girls carrying "mesh-bags," that subtle connotation
of the feminine character, extracted tooth-picks from them or searched for bits of chewing
gum among their over scented treasures.

As it was an excursion, the Fall of Rome carried a band and booths laden with many delicious
superfluities such as pop-corn and the misleading compound known as "salt-water taffy." There
were, besides, the blue and red pennants that always go on excursions, and the yellow and pink
fly-flappers that always come home from them; also there were stacks of whistle-whips and slender
canes with ivory heads with little holes pierced through. These canes were bought only by cynical
young men whose new straw hats were fastened to their persons by thin black strings. Each young
man, after purchasing an ivory-headed cane retired to privacy to squint through it undisturbed.
Emerging from this privacy the young man would then confer with other young men. What these
joyless young men saw when they squinted they never revealed. But among their elders they spread
the strong impression that it was the Capital at Washington or Bunker Hill Monument.

Besides bottled soda and all soft drinks the Fall of Rome carried other stimuli in the shape
of comic gentlemen--such beings, as, more or less depressed in their own proper environment,
on excursions suddenly see themselves in their true light, irresistibly facetious. These funny
gentlemen, mostly husbands, seated themselves near to large groups of indulgent women and kept
up an exquisite banter directed at each other's personal defects, or upon the idiosyncrasies
of any bachelor or spinster near. These funny gentlemen kept alluding to the excursion as the
"Exertion." If the boat rolled a little they said, "Now, Mother, don't rock the boat."

"Here, girls, sit up close, we'll all go down together."

"Hold on to yer beau, Minnie. He'll fall overboard and where'll you git another?"

The peals of laughter at these sallies were unfailing. The crunch of peanuts was unfailing.
The band, with a sort of plethoric indulgence, played slow waltzes in which the bass instruments
frequently misapplied notes, but to the allure of which came youthful dancers lovely in proud
awkward poses.

Mrs. Tuttle meanwhile was the social center, demonstrating that mysterious psychic force known
as being the "life of the party." She advanced upon a tall sallow woman in mourning, challenging,
"Now Mis' Mealer, why don't you just set and take a little comfort, it won't cost you nothing?
Ain't that your girl over there by the coffee fountain? I should ha' known her by the reesemblance
to you; she's rill refined lookin'."

Mrs. Mealer, a tall, sallow widow with carefully maintained mourning visage, admitted that
this was so. Refinement, she averred, was in the family, but she hinted at some obscure ailment
which, while it made Emma refined, kept her "mizzable."

"I brought her along," sighed Mrs. Mealer, "tain't as if neither of us could take much pleasure
into it, both of us being so deep in black fer her Popper, but the styles is bound to do her
good. Emma is such a great hand for style."

"Yuess?" replied Mrs. Tuttle blandly. This lady in blue was not nearly so interested in Emma
as in keeping a circle of admirers hanging around her cerulean presence, but even slightly
encouraged, Mrs. Mealer warmed to her topic.

