In appearance the Patron of Sport is unwholesome. The bloom of youth vanished from his face
before he ceased to be a boy; he assumes the worn and sallow mask of age before he has fairly
begun to be a man. His hair is thin, and is carefully flattened by the aid of unguents, his
dress is flashy, his moustache thick. In order the more closely to imitate a true sportsman,
he wears a baggy overcoat, with large buttons. Yet he abhors all kinds of honest exercise,
and, in the days of his prosperity, keeps a small brougham with yellow wheels. Soon after he
reaches the age of thirty, he begins to feel the effects of his variegated life. He fails in
landing a big coup on the Stock Exchange, and loses much money over a Newmarket meeting, in
which he plunges on a succession of rank outsiders, whom a set of rascals, more cunning than
himself, have represented to him as certainties. His position on the Stock Exchange becomes
shaky, and he attempts to restore it by embarking with a gang of needy rogues on a first-class
"roping" transaction, in connection with a prize-fight in Spain. Having, however, been exposed,
he is shunned by most of those who only heard of the swindle when it was too late to join in it.

This is the beginning of the end. He becomes careless of his appearance; with the decrease
of his means his coats become shiny, and his cuffs more and more frayed. Eventually he falls
into a state of sodden imbecility, relieved by occasional flashes of delirium tremens, and
dies at the age of thirty-six, regretted by nobody except the faithful bull-dog, whose silver
collar was the last thing he pawned.

       *       *       *       *       *

A New Opera (in Preparation).

Librettist. Now here's a grand effect. They all say, "We swear!" Then there's a magnificent
"Oath Chorus!" How do you propose to treat that?

Composer. Oath Chorus? In D Major.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PAGE FROM AN IMPERIAL NOTE-BOOK.--So far so good. Got rid of the Grand Old Chancellor and
the rest of that crew--without much of a row! Been civil to my English Uncle, the Pope and
the Democrats. Can't be idle, so what shall I do next? Why not take a trip to America where
I might stand for President? If I propose extending trip to Salt Lake, would have to go en
garçon. Or I might see if I could not get a little further than STANLEY in Africa. When I returned
might write a book to be called, The Extra Deep-Edged Black Continent. Or why not turn painter?
With a little practice would soon cut out all the Old Masters, native and foreign. And if I
gave my mind to poetry, why GOETHE and HEINE would be simply nowhere! How about horse-racing?
A Berlin Derby Day would make my English cousins "sit up." And sermons, there's something to
be done in sermons! I believe I could compose as good a discourse as any of my Court chaplains.
And then, possibly, I might be qualified to do that which would satisfy the sharpest craving
of my loftiest ambition--I might write for Punch!

    [So he shall. He shall "write for Punch," enclosing stamps, and
    the Number shall be sent to him by return.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAY-TIME.

SINCE the first night, if hearsay evidence can be accepted, as I didn't see the première, Mr.
SUGDEN must have immensely improved his Touchstone. He plays it now with much dry, quaint humour,
and when I saw him in the part last week, every line told with a decidedly discriminating but
appreciative audience. His scenes with that capital Audrey, Miss MARION LEA, and with William,
were uncommonly good. I confess I was surprised. Mr. BOURCHIER--but now an amateur, now thus--gives
Jaques' immortal speech of "All the world's a stage," in a thoroughly natural and unconventional
manner, chiefly remarkable for the absence of every gesture or tone that could make it a mere
theatrical recitation by a modern professional reciter at a pic-nic. Mrs. LANGTRY'S Rosalind
is charming, her scenes with Orlando being as pretty a piece of acting as any honest playgoer
could wish to see. And what a pretty Lamb is she they call BEATRICE who plays Phoebe! What
a sweet, gentle, restful play it is! How unlike these bustling times! To witness this idyllic
romance as it is put on at the St. James's, is as if one had stepped aside out of "the movement,"
had bid adieu for a while to the madding crowd, and had plunged into the depths of the forest
of Arden, to find a tranquil "society of friends," among whom, under the greenwood tree, one
can rest and be thankful.

I was curious to see how ALEXANDER "the (Getting) Great" would comport himself as the hero
of light farce, associated as he has always hitherto been with heroes of romance and high comedy.
The theatre-going public and his admirers--the terms are synonymous--may breathe again. ALEXANDER
is surprisingly good as Dr. Bill, and the serious earnestness with which he invests the part
intensifies the drollery of the complications. And to think that the adapter of this gay and
festive piece should be none other than the sentimental troubadour, song-writer and composer,
author of a Lyceum Tragedy and other similar trifles, Mr. HAMILTON AÏDÉ!! "Sir," in future
will HAMILTON AÏDÉ say, when being interviewed by a Manager, "I will now read you my Five Act
Tragedy entitled----" "Hang your tragedies!" will the Manager exclaim, "Give me a farce like
'Dr. Bill,' my boy!" And once more will the poet put his pride and his tragedy in one pocket,
and all the money which the Comic Muse will give him in the other. I back the argumentum ad
pocketum against the Tragic Muse.

How capitally it is played! Miss BROUGH excellent; and so also is Mr. CHEVALIER, who entirely
loses his own identity in his make-up, and is not to be recognised at all, save for a few mannerisms.
Charming housemaid is pretty Miss MARIE LINDEN; and the idiotic youth, George Webster, played
by Mr. BENJAMIN WEBSTER,--two Websters rolled into one,--is very funny. But they're all as
good as they can be. I congratulate ALEXANDER the (Getting) Great, who, for pecuniary reasons,
I should like to be, were I not

DIOGENES OUT OF THE TUB.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Bitter Cry of the Dramatic Critic.

  'Tis the voice of the Critic
    I hear him complain,
  "One more afternoon!
    Fools! they're at it again!

  These dull Matinées!
    Wretched plays I must see!
  But, alas, 'tis no play,
    And there's no peace for me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Le Sport" in Bouverie Street.

THE excellent columns of "This Morning's News" in the Daily News the other day were endowed
with fresh interest by an announcement made with respect to the Emperor of AUSTRIA. It runs thus:--

    "When informed that on the Imperial preserves in the neighbourhood
    of Vienna the first snipe had been seen, the passionate huntsman
    said, 'I am exceedingly sorry, but I've no time for them this
    week.'"

Every one has heard of "The Hunting of the Snark;" but this is the first time reference has
been publicly made to the hunting of the Snipe.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE FIRST BOTANIC GARDEN SHOW. MARCH 26.

  HIMANTOPHYLLUMS and Cyclamens were there to be seen,
  And some pretty baskets full of strawb'rries from Englefield Green.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR ADVERTISERS.

HIGH LIFE, COMMERCIAL, TRADING, AND OTHER.

THE BEST SCREENED DUCAL KNOBBLES.--As supplied direct from the ancestral estates of His Grace
the Duke of WAGOVER.

       * * *

THE BEST SCREENED DUCAL KNOBBLES.--This fashionable coal, throwing down a pleasing and prettily-coloured
but plentiful light blue ash, is now confidently recommended to the general public, by His
Grace the Duke of WAGOVER, who begs to inform his numerous patrons and clients that he has
now completed his final arrangements to enable him entirely to relinquish his duties in the
Upper House of the Legislature, for the purpose of being free to devote the whole of his time
to the personal supervision of the working of the lucrative seams recently discovered on his
family estate. Orders, that should be accompanied by postal orders or cheque, may be sent direct
to His Grace, addressed either to Wagover Castle, or to his town residence in Belgrave Square, S.W.

       * * *

THE BEST SCREENED DUCAL KNOBBLES.--N.B. Customers are respectfully invited to note that the
Ducal Arms, Coronet and Family Tree, are properly blazoned on every sack on delivery, as a
guarantee that the coal supplied is that now offered at the extremely low figure of 28s. a
ton as "Ducal Knobbles," screened under the immediate supervision of His Grace's own eye.

       * * *

THE EARL'S PICKLED PIES.--These delicious breakfast-table delicacies (now the rage everywhere)
can be obtained by special arrangement, at any pastrycook's, cheesemonger's, or grocer's in
the Three Kingdoms. A Noble Earl having by an agreement with his head-keeper and chief tenants,
secured the right of shooting his own ground game, has commenced on his own estate the manufacture,
for which he has taken out patent rights, of the above celebrated "rabbit" pies, the demand
for which has so increased that for the last six months his house has never contained a shooting-party
of less than ten guns at a time, that have all been busily engaged at making a bag for their
manufacture, continually, from morning till night. An analyst, writing to the Stethoscope,
says, "I have examined a sample of the pie sent me. It appears to be all rabbit. I cannot discover
a particle of cat in it anywhere."

       * * *

THE EXCLUSIVE SOCIETY INTRODUCTION SYNDICATE. With the above appellation, a Company has been
organised, under the Direction of an Impecunious Duchess, assisted by a Committee of Upper
Class Ladies, whose want of ready money has become urgent, for the purpose of selling, at a
fixed sale of prices, to any low-bred parvenue who can afford to pay for it, the entrée to
those exclusive and hitherto unapproachable circles to which they, by the accident of their
birth and family connections, possess the privilege of offering and securing an introduction.

       * * *

HIGH CLASS SOCIAL PRIVILEGES.--THE EXCLUSIVE SOCIETY INTRODUCTION SYNDICATE beg to direct the
attention of enterprising and ambitious aspirants to the advantages of an introduction to various
social privileges of a High Class and Exclusive character, to the fact that the following "items,"
that have been carefully thought out, and priced according to scale, conformably with the present
condition of the social market, are now offered for their consideration:--

                                                              £ s. d.
Invitation and admission to a "crush" in the neighbourhood
of Belgrave Square (without introduction to Host or Hostess) 21   0   0

Ditto, ditto, (with introduction)                            31  10   0

Ditto, ditto, at Bayswater, or West Kensington                1  11   6

Five o'clock tea, including introduction to Leading Actor, Royal Academician, Distinguished
Literary Man, or other celebrity                                                    10  10   0

Same privilege enjoyed at select little dinner-party of eight                             
26   5   0

Other "Social Privileges" provided according to the special requirements of the case. Underbred
people, with no position, but possessing means, may be launched under the protection of carefully
selected Chaperons, into the very best Society, on applying personally to the Manageress.

       * * *

DINING WITH A DUCHESS.--THE EXCLUSIVE SOCIETY INTRODUCTION SYNDICATE beg to inform their patrons
and clients that their charge for satisfactorily securing them this eminent and obvious social
advantage is, at the present moment, through the rare opportunity due to financial losses incurred
recently by several distinguished Noble Families, only one hundred and fifty guineas. This
sum does not include any personal introduction, but the latter may be arranged for with or
without three minutes' conversation over a cup of tea later in the course of the evening by
the payment of the comparatively small additional fee of fifty guineas extra.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE GIFT HORSE."

  Niver look a gift horse in the mouth? Moighty foine,
    But how if the crayture is not worth its kape?
  Faix, it isn't the nag for a stable o' moine.
    Oive doubts of its blood and oi don't loike its shape.
  What! we ought to accipt it and think it an honour?
  We moight do that same did we not know the donor!

  Oh, I grant ye it's big, and I grant ye it's bould,
    A blood-looking Bucephalus ivery inch;
  But its oi if ye look, Sorr, is cruel and could,
    And that big aff-hind leg has a fidgety flinch.
  Oi'd git out av the way av its heels moighty quick,
  For I fancy the baste has a botherin' kick!

  It looks all very well in the front, to be shure,
    Though I don't loike the way that it lays back its ears,
  But your sate in the saddle had need be secure
    If it lash out behoind, as it could, oive me fears.
  By the sowl of St. PAT. oi'd as soon risk a spill
  From those blayguard buck-jumpers of BUFFALO BILL!

  Gift horse? Oh, by jabers that's not what we're afther,
    We'd breed for ourselves if they'd give us a chance.
  BALFOUR, ye stand there wid an oi full o' laughter.
    Ye divil, we know that cool optical dance.
  Come the comether on us then, would ye, ye wag,
  Wid this "ginerous" gift of a dangerous nag?

  All shenanigin', that's what it is, sheer purtence;
    But ye don't catch us ould Oirish birds wid such chaff!
  Ye'd loike us to take it,--and take no offence.
    And thin it's yourself as 'ud just have the laugh.
  It may do for the North, but won't suit us down South;
  So, PARNELL, my boy, take a squint at its mouth!

       *       *       *       *       *

FASTER AND FASTER.--In France there is now a Fasting Girl. If she beats the record, and if
the winners, who back her staying powers against those of Succi, give her a handsome dot, she
will be known as La Jeûnesse Dorée.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUNRAVEN. (Verses from the Very Latest Version.)

  Once on a Commission dreary sat DUNRAVEN, worn and weary.
    Hearing many a snuffling Hebrew, many a Sweater's victim poor,
  Oft he nodded, nearly dozing, but, on the Commission's closing,
    Schemed out a Report, supposing that by such Report he'd score.
  "Tone it down," his colleagues muttered; "like a sucking-dove let's roar,
                    Gently purr, and nothing more."

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Be those words our sign of parting!" cried DUNRAVEN, swift upstarting;
    "Sweating's an accursed system, but if now our toil is o'er,
  We leave twaddle as sole token of the swelling words we've spoken.
    Public faith in us is broken! Bah! I quit, I "bust", boil o'er!
  Take my seat, sign your Report, about such bosh my spirit bore?"
                     Quoth DUNRAVEN, "Nevermore!"

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT TRIHUMFUNT!

I ONLY hopes as most of my thowsands of readers took my strait tip last Wensday morning, and
got their 9 to 4 against the winner, if not it most suttenly wasn't my fault. My directions
was as clear as daylight. "Dark morning, dark blew carnt lose." And wosent it a dark morning?
and wosent it luvly arterwuds? Any of my winners may send my 5 per sent commishun to the hoffice
as ushal, and they will all receve a copy of my emortle Book by post.

It was a puffeckly lovely race! fust Cambridge got fust, then Hoxford got fust and Cambridge
second, and so on all through, but in course Hoxford wun as I proffysized.

I seed all the River Tems Conserwatives, with the Right Honnerabel the LORD MARE at the hed
of 'em all, a laying carmly at rest in their bootifool Steam Bote, a trying for to look as
if they wasn't responsibel for all the hundreds of thousands of peeple as lined all the banks
of the River a gitting ome safely. Many on 'em I remarked kept on a disappearing down below
ewery now and then, probberbly to seek that strengthening of the system so werry nessessery
under such trying suckemstances. Upon the hole, I wentures werry humbly to pronounce it to
be one of the werry sucksessfullest races of moddun times, which I bleeves means about 6 years.
ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG SENTIMENTIANA.

(A Delightful "All-the-Year-Round" Resort for the Fashionable Composer.)

EXAMPLE II.--SHOWING HOW CURIOUSLY RETENTIVE IS THE LOVER'S MEMORY.

  'Tis ninety years ago, love!
    It seems but yestermorn
  We sat upon the snow, love,
    And watch'd the golden corn!
  I mind the bitter wind, love--
    I mind it well, although
  The wind I say I mind, love,
    Blew ninety years ago!

  The plough stood on the hill, love--
    The horse stood in the plough!
  And both were standing still, love--
    I seem to see them now!
  The lamb frisk'd in the glen, love--
    A stranger he to whoa!
  And so was I--but then, love,
    'Twas ninety years ago!

  The roses by the way, love,
    Were large and, oh, so fair!
  And so they are to-day, love,
    For all I know--or care!
  And softly unto thou, love,
    While yet among the snow,
  I breathed that fatal vow, love,
    Of ninety years ago!

       *       *       *       *       *

A "FISHING INTERROGATORY."--"What's this new French book on angling?" asked Mrs. R., who is
not very well up in the French language and literature. "I believe," she went on, "it is called
The Bait Humane. I do hope it is against the cruel practice of putting live worms on a hook,
which is so cruel."--[It is supposed that our dear Mrs. R. has heard some mention of La Bête
Humaine.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

ADVICE to those who are about to give Easter presents--send to MACMILLAN'S for "The Nursery
'Alice,'" who re-appears "as fresh as paint," that is, with twenty-four of "Our Mr. TENNIEL'S"
illustrations, coloured by Miss GERTRUDE THOMSON, under his direction.

The Universal Review is specially noteworthy for a short play by Mr. W. L. COURTNEY, entitled,
Kit Marlowe's Death. Mr. BOURCHIER of the St. James's, so it is stated, is going to add this
"Kit" to his theatrical wardrobe. Some of the stage-directions,--such, for instance, as "They
pour out wine in his cup, which he swallows," and "The others laugh at NASH'S expense,"--are
well worth all the money that the spirited purchaser may have paid for this almost priceless
work. In the same Magazine, the coloured frontispiece of "Count Tolstoy at Home," showing the
Count, not labouring in the fields of literature, but simply guiding the plough, is as good
as the article on the Kreutzer Sonata is interesting; and interesting also is the paper entitled,
"Musings in an English Cathedral," by the Dean of GLOUCESTER,--henceforth to be known as "A
Musing Dean."

Mr. ANDREW LANG in Longman's--or rather Lang-man's--Magazine, is still stopping at "The Sign
of The Ship"--[The Baron moves "that the words 'and Turtle' be inserted after 'Ship'"]--and
as he has recently been delighting us with wanders in the land of Ham, it will gratify his
readers to learn that he is now ceasing to be "All for 'Hur,'" in order to join the author
of She in a plot for a new romance. They are undeterred by the eye of Detective RUNCIMAN. I
wish success to Merry Andrew Languid in this collaboration. In this same Lang-man's Mag., Mr.
VAL PRINSEP, A.R.A., having temporarily dissociated himself from the paint-brush and canvas,
by which he has made his name and fame, continues his novel Virginie. In the present chapter
he incidentally gives a description of the service of Mass in the good Abbé Leroux's parish
church, which is a triumph of imagination and subtle humour. No wonder "the Abbé Leroux was
scandalised," when the service had been turned topsy-turvy, the credo put before the gloria,
and a young person among his congregation, topping all other voices, was singing a solo! Where
was the Beadle? or a Churchwarden? or an Aggrieved Parishioner? Three cheers for Facile PRINSEP'S
novel!

In Plain Tales from the Hills, by Mr. RUDYARD KIPLING, the jaded palate of the "General Reader"
will recognise a new and piquant flavour. In places the manner suggests an Anglo-Indian BRET
HARTE, and there is perhaps too great an abundance of phrases and local allusions which will
be dark sayings to the uninitiated. But the stories show a quite surprising knowledge of life,
a familiarity with military, civil, and native society, and a command of pathos and humour,
which have already won a reputation for the author. Few can read Beyond the Pale, The Arrest
of Lieutenant Golightly, The Story of Muhammed Din, The Germ Destroyer, and The Madness of
Private Ortheris, for example, without admiration for the versatility which can cover so wide
a range, and impress, amuse, or touch with the same ease and epigrammatic conciseness.

  BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROOT OF THE MATTER.

(The Sporting M.P.'s Straight Tip to Trevelyan.)

  In the intervals of Sport
    M.P.'s vamp the country's work,
  Therefore cut the Sessions short,
    Supplementary Sessions shirk.
  Must have time to pot the grouse,
    Must have time to hook the salmon,
  Spoil our Sport to help the House?
                Gammon!!!

       *       *       *       *       *

LOST, somewhere between Land's End and John O'Groat's, a highly-treasured heir-loom, known
as the "British Sense of Fair Play." It disappeared immediately after the issuing of the Report
of the Parnell Commission, and has never been seen or heard of since. Many applicants have
claimed to have re-discovered it; but, from Sir R-CH-RD W-BST-R and Sir W-LL-M H-RC-RT, to
L-RD D-NR-V-N, and (last and least) Sir W. M-RR-TT, all have absolutely failed to substantiate
their claims. Any Public Man, of whatever party, who can prove his possession of the lost treasure,
by making a speech embodying a judicial survey of the Judges' Report, without party-feeling,
special pleading, or paltry spite, will, on applying personally to Mr. Punch, be HANDSOMELY
REWARDED!!!

       *       *       *       *       *

PUT THIS IN YOUR PIPE.

[Pipe-Major MCKELLAR has thrown doubts upon the pretty and pathetic story of "JESSIE BROWN
of Lucknow."]

  Our faith to the winds you would chuck now,
  Concerning that Legend of Lucknow.
        That sweet Scottish girl
        Never heard the pipes "skirl?"
  Come! This is mere sceptical muck now!

  The Ross-shire Buffs' slogan I'll wager
  Will survive many stories much sager.
        Our faith in the tale
        Is confirmed, and won't fail
  At the word of a single Pipe-Major.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL NOTES.

I HAVE just received FLORIAN PASCAL'S Music composed for Tra la la Tosca, published by JOSEPH
WILLIAMS of Berners Street. Justice was not done to it on the stage at the Royalty, but there
are two morçeaux in it which ought to become popular; one being a song entitled "Her Eye,"
which, were it wedded to serious words, would be highly popular as a contralto song, just as
SULLIVAN'S charming "Hush a bye Bacon," in Cox and Box, became "Birds of the Night." Then the
Gavotte in this book is as graceful and catching as the Gavotte de Louis Treize, and would
be in great request with orchestras and bands everywhere.

KLEIN'S Musical Notes of the Year, a useful and trustworthy historical record, was sent to
me, and not "de-KLEIN'd with thanks." I have just heard that there is a new pick-me-up called
"Zingit." What it is I don't know, and I haven't as yet come across the inevitable big advertisement;
but what I have ascertained is, that Mr. EDWARD SOLOMON, who is now wearing the diamond scarf-pin
presented to him by the Guards whom he led on to victory in their recent burlesque engagement,
has composed a polka or waltz which bears the name of "Zingit," and which might bear on the
wrapper, "If you can't play it, or dance it, Zing it."

(Signed) OTTO PICCOLO (DU CONSERVATOIRE).

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. HUBERT VOS requests the honour of our company at his studio near Vauxhall Bridge. Very
sorry: couldn't get there. "Sic Vos non vobis."

       *       *       *       *       *

A "SCRATCH COMPANY."--A Cat Show.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WHERE MARRIAGES ARE MADE.

THE application for a licence to marry at St. George's, Albemarle Street, made by the JEUNE
PREMIER, Q.C., on behalf of the Rev. Dr. KER GRAY, was opposed by Canon CAPEL CURE, of St.
George's, Hanover Square, the Hymeneal Temple par excellence of the Metropolis. Dr. TRISTRAM,
with traditional Shandyan caution, said he would "take time to consider his decision." Should
Dr. Time be adverse to the opponents, then will the Minister with the sad-dog name of "KER
GRAY" become the Canon's bête noire. If the decision be t'other way, then KER GRAY may twit
the Canon with being "a regular Cure," and might compose a chant on the old lines of

  "A Cure, a Cure, a Cure, a Cure,
  Oh isn't he a Cure!"

While the Canon could retaliate with a parody on "Old Dog Tray."

    "The chapel's far too near,
    But p'raps another year
  May put a stop to old KER GRAY."

In the meantime, the affair being sub (Punch-and-) judice, we refrain from further comment,
and wish luck to both Reverend Gentlemen.

       *       *       *       *       *

SENTENCE RE-VERSED.

  'Gin a body meet a body
    On the Queen's highway,
  And a body kiss a body,
    Won't a body pay?
  Mony a lassie has a temper.
    Mony a beak is stern;
  At six weeks' quod, and fourteen bob,
    The lesson's hard to learn.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOO MUCH A MATTER OF COURSE.--Cruelty to Hares. In course of his exposition the happy accident
by which civilised man is furnished with two coat-tails was strikingly illustrated. On the
Treasury Bench, behind Prince ARTHUR, sat, on either hand, OLD MORALITY and JOKIM. Supposing
the Prince had had only one coat-tail, differences might have arisen between his two right
hon. friends; sure at some period of the prolonged speech to come into personal contact if
both pulling at same rope. But the liberal sartorial arrangements which ARTHUR shared in common
with less distinguished Members provided a coat-tail apiece; so when idea or suggestion occurred
to him, OLD MORALITY tugged at the right-hand one, and when JOKIM had a happy thought he hauled
away on the left.

As both their minds were seething with ideas, ARTHUR had a lively time of it, and complications
of Bill grew in entanglement. Just as he was assuming, for the sake of argument, that an advance
of 30 millions had been made under the Act for the Purchase of Land in Ireland, and that seventeen
years was about the average value under Lord ASHBOURNE'S Act, there was a sudden tug of the
right coat-tail; Prince leaned over in that direction; OLD MORALITY whispered in his ear.

"Exactly!" said the Prince; "I was just going to show that the instalment of 4 per cent. on
the advance of 30 millions is £1,200,000 a year. Very well; suppose that in one year, though
the hypothesis is utterly impossible, that not one single sixpence of annuity is paid. How
would that be?" (Here the left coat-tail was observed to be violently agitated, and ARTHUR
leaning over, JOKIM half-rising, eagerly explained something.)

"Precisely. My right hon. friend reminds me, what indeed I was just about to show, that there
would be first the £200,000 reserve fund; secondly, there would be the £200,000 annual probate
grant; thirdly, £40,000 of the new Exchequer contribution, and £75,000 of the quarter per cent,
local per-centage, and there would be besides that £1,118,000 of tenants' reserve. So that
without touching the £5,000,000, which was the landlords' fifth, and without touching a sixpence
of the contingent portion of the guarantee fund, you would have £1,633,000 to meet the call
of £1,200,000."

This prospect of boundless wealth, more especially the familiar way of putting it, making it
quite a personal matter for each Member that he would have £1,633,000 to meet a call of £1,200,000,
was designed to have soothing effect on audience; would, indeed, have succeeded in that direction
but for the coat-tail accompaniment.

"JOKIM," said HARCOURT, "is too susceptible in his paternal feelings. We know now who is the
father of the progeny. Arranged that BALFOUR shall bring it in for christening ceremony; shall
dandle it in his arms, and dilate on its excellences; but everyone can tell from the excited
manner, the eager interruption, the restless hovering round the cradle, that JOKIM is the father."

Business done.--Land Purchase Bill brought in.

Tuesday.--WILFRID LAWSON sprang a mine to-night. House, as everyone knows, engaged for nearly
fortnight in discussing question whether it should thank Judges for their services in connection
with Parnell Commission. A desperate struggle finally resulted in decision to pass Vote of
Thanks. LAWSON wants to know whether OLD MORALITY has conveyed the thanks to the Judges; and
if so, what had they said in reply? Question put without notice. Rather startles OLD MORALITY.
Fact is, never occurred to him that anything had to be done in supplement of passing Vote of
Thanks. There it was; Judges might, in passing, call in and take it home with them; or it might
be forwarded, at owner's risk, by Parcel-Post or Pickford's. Very awkward thing thus springing
these questions on a Minister. Couldn't even, right off, say where the Vote of Thanks was.
Gazed hopelessly at mass of papers on Clerk's table. Might probably be there. Perhaps not.
Vote passed some days ago; desk cleared every morning. OLD MORALITY moved restlessly on bench;
looked picture of despair. Best thing to do, not to take notice of question; pretend not to
hear it; but House laughing and cheering; all eyes bent on him; no escape. So, rising, holding
on to table, putting on most diplomatic manner, and speaking in solemn tones, OLD MORALITY
said, "Mr. SPEAKER, Sir, it is no part of my duty to the QUEEN and country to convey to anybody
a Resolution of this House."

LAWSON up again. More cheering and laughter. Asked SPEAKER whether he had conveyed Vote of
Thanks to Judges? No; SPEAKER had had no instructions on the matter.

Where is the Vote of Thanks? Who has it in his possession? Certainly not the Judges; one of
those things nobody had thought about; various people's business to see to it; accordingly
no one done it; no wonder Brother DAY, sitting on Bench, has looked forth with stony stare,
his heart consumed with secret sorrow. Whilst everyone congratulating Judges on rare honour
done to them by both Houses of Parliament, the distinction has proved illusory. World pictured
each learned Judge with copy of Vote of Thanks, framed and glazed, hung in best parlour; and
behold! they have never had it at all!

House laughed when truth dawned upon it. But it was a hollow laugh, ill-concealing prevalent
feeling of vexation and shame-facedness. Turned with affectation of keen interest to question
raised by MUNDELLA of iniquities of Education Department in connection with School Supply of
York and Salisbury. But could not keep the thing up. Even rousing eloquence of HART DYKE, on
his defence, fell flat. Ever rose before Members the vision of the three Judges, daily expecting
receipt of thanks which they read had been voted to them; too proud to complain of neglect;
HANNEN taking on a sterner aspect; SMITH affecting a perky indifference; and over the solemn
features of Brother DAY ever stealing the deepening twilight of deferred hope. House gladly
broke away from scene and subject, getting itself Counted Out at a Quarter-past Nine.

Thursday.--"Talk about DIZZY," said HARCOURT, perhaps not without some tinge of envy, "if OLD
MORALITY goes on in this style, DIZZY won't be in it for persiflage."

House laughing so heartily, could hardly hear HARCOURT'S whisper. JOHN MORLEY began it; Lunacy
Laws Consolidation Bill with 342 Clauses and 5 Schedules gone through Committee like flash
of lightning. Nothing been seen like it since, the other night, I and seven other Members voted
Four Millions sterling in Committee on Navy Estimates. COURTNEY put Clauses in batches of fifty.
No one said him nay. Natural supposition was, that House in agreeing to this critical stage
of important Bill knew all about it. Every line of its 342 Clauses must be familiar to every
man present; otherwise how could he lay his hand on his heart, and say, "Aye," when COURTNEY
asked him should he knock off another fifty Clauses?

When it was over, JOHN MORLEY rose, and gravely expressed hope that OLD MORALITY would inform
his friends, accustomed to say that Opposition persist in obstruction, how this piece of legislation
had advanced by leaps and bounds. This meant to be a nasty one for OLD MORALITY, prone to go
into the country in Autumn and protest how he is hampered in performing duty to QUEEN and country
by obstruction of Members opposite.

"Ha! ha!" chuckled the Liberals, "JOHN'S got him there. A hit, a palpable hit!"

But no one yet fathomed the tranquil depths of OLD MORALITY. Rose from other side of table
and, with equal gravity, promised that he would tell all his friends "how the Opposition had
given greatest possible facility for passing the Lunacy Bill." This joke one of kind whose
exquisite flavour evaporates on paper. But House enjoyed it immensely, none more than OLD MORALITY.
For an hour after, as he sat on Treasury Bench, his face from time to time suddenly suffused
with genial smile, and his portly body gently shook with laughter.

"Ah!" said J. G. TALBOT, mournfully regarding him through his spectacles; "he's thinking of
the Old 'un," meaning the late joke.

Tithes Bill on for Second Reading. PICTON rallied scattered forces of Opposition, and led them
to attack. Slashing speech; soaring eloquence; trenormous energy.

"Reminds me," said Admiral FIELD, "of his grandfather, General PICTON, who fell at Waterloo.
Remember him very well; was in charge of Brigade of Marines there, you know; attached to PICTON'S
Division. Never look on Member for Leicester without thinking of my old comrade in arms;" and
the sturdy salt brushed away the reluctant tear.

PICTON reminded HICKS-BEACH of someone else--"his great predecessor in spoliation, HENRY THE
EIGHTH."

"Yes, but better looking," said PLUNKET, always ready to put in a kind word.

Business done.--Tithes Bill Debate.

