But Daniel Hathorne had the advantage over fashionable society in Salem, in being a thorough
patriot. Boston and Salem were the two strongholds of Toryism during the war for Independence,
which was natural enough, as their wealthy citizens were in close mercantile relations with
English houses, and sent their children to England to be educated. Daniel Hathorne, however,
as soon as hostilities had begun, fitted out his bark as a privateer, and spent the following
six years in preying upon British merchantmen. How successful he was in this line of business
we have not been informed, but he certainly did not grow rich by it; although he is credited
with one engagement with the enemy, in which his ship came off with honor, though perhaps not
with a decisive victory. This exploit was celebrated in a rude ballad of the time, which has
been preserved in "Griswold's Curiosities of American Literature," and has at least the merit
of plain unvarnished language. [Footnote: Also in Lathrop's "Hawthorne."]

There is a miniature portrait of Daniel Hathorne, such as was common in Copley's time, still
in the possession of the Hawthorne family, and it represents him as rather a bullet-headed
man, with a bright, open, cheery face, a broad English chin and strongly marked brows,--an
excellent physiognomy for a sea-captain. He appears besides to have had light brown or sandy
hair, a ruddy complexion and bright blue eyes; but we cannot determine how truthful the miniature
may be in respect to coloring. At all events, he was of a very different appearance from Nathaniel
Hawthorne, and if he resembled his grandson in any external respect, it was in his large eyes
and their overshadowing brows. He has not the look of a dare-devil. One might suppose that
he was a person of rather an obstinate disposition, but it is always difficult to draw the
line between obstinacy and determination.

A similar miniature of his son Nathaniel, born in 1775, and who died at Surinam in his thirty-fourth
year, gives us the impression of a person somewhat like his father, and also somewhat like
his son Nathaniel. He has a long face instead of a round one, and his features are more delicate
and refined than those of the bold Daniel. The expression is gentle, dreamy and pensive, and
unless the portrait belies him, he could not have been the stern, domineering captain that
he has been represented. He had rather a slender figure, and was probably much more like his
mother, who was a Miss Phelps, than the race of Judge Hathorne. He may have been a reticent
man, but never a bold one, and we find in him a new departure. His face is more amiable and
attractive than his father's, but not so strong. In 1799 he was married to Miss Elizabeth Clarke
Manning, the daughter of Richard Manning, and then only nineteen years of age. She appears
to have been an exceptionally sensitive and rather shy young woman--such as would be likely
to attract the attention of a chivalrous young mariner--but with fine traits of intellect and
character.

The maternal ancestry of a distinguished man is quite as important as the paternal, but in
the present instance it is much more difficult to obtain information concerning it. The increasing
fame of Hawthorne has been like a calcium-light, illuminating for the past fifty years everything
to which that name attaches, and leaving the Manning family in a shadow so much the deeper.
All we can learn of them now is, that they were descended from Richard Manning, of Dartmouth
in Devonshire, England, whose son Thomas emigrated to Salem with his widowed mother in 1679,
but afterwards removed to Ipswich, ten miles to the north, whence the family has since extended
itself far and wide,--the Reverend Jacob M. Manning, of the Old South Church, the fearless
champion of practical anti-slaveryism, having been among them. It appears that Thomas's grandson
Richard started in life as a blacksmith, which was no strange thing in those primitive times;
but, being a thrifty and enterprising man, he lived to establish a line of stage-coaches between
Salem and Boston, and this continued in the possession of his family until it was superseded
by the Eastern Railway. After this catastrophe, Robert Manning, the son of Richard and brother
of Mrs. Nathaniel Hathorne, became noted as a fruit-grower (a business in which Essex County
people have always taken an active interest), and was one of the founders of the Massachusetts
Horticultural Society. The Mannings were always respected in Salem, although they never came
to affluent circumstances, nor did they own a house about the city common. Robert Manning,
Jr., was Secretary of the Horticultural Society in Boston for a long term of years, a pleasant,
kindly man, with an aspect of general culture. Hawthorne's maternal grandmother was Miriam
Lord, of Ipswich, and his paternal grandmother was Rachel Phelps, of Salem. His father was
only thirty-three when he died at Surinam.

In regard to the family name, there are at present Hawthornes and Hathornes in England, and
although the two names may have been identical originally, they have long since become as distinct
as Smith and Smythe. I have discovered only two instances in which the first William Hathorne
wrote his own name, and in the various documents at the State House in which it appears written
by others, it is variously spelled Hathorn, Hathorne, Hawthorn, Haythorne, and Harthorne,--from
which we can only conclude that the a was pronounced broadly. It was not until the reign of
Queen Anne, when books first became cheap and popular, that there was any decided spelling
of either proper or common names. Then the printers took the matter into their own hands and
made witch-work enough of it. The word "sovereign," for instance, which is derived from the
old French souvrain, and which Milton spelled "sovran," they tortured into its present form,--much
as the clerks of Massachusetts Colony tortured the name of William Hathorne. This, however,
was spelled Hathorne oftener than in other ways, and it was so spelled in the two signatures
above referred to, one of which was attached as witness to a deed for the settlement of the
boundary between Lynn and Salem, [Footnote: Also in Lathrop's "Hawthorne."] and the other to
a report of the commissioners for the investigation of the French vessels coming to Salem and
Boston in 1651, the two other commissioners being Samuel Bradstreet and David Denison. [Footnote:
Massachusetts Archives, x. 171.]The name was undoubtedly Hathorne, and so it continued with
one or two slight variations during the eighteenth century down to the time of Nathaniel Hathorne,
Jr., who entered and graduated at Bowdoin College under that name, but who soon afterward changed
it to Hawthorne, for reasons that have never been explained.

All cognomens would seem to have been derived originally from some personal peculiarity, although
it is no longer possible to trace this back to its source, which probably lies far away in
the Dark Ages,--the formative period of languages and of families. Sometimes, however, we meet
with individuals whose peculiarities suggest the origin of their names: a tall, slender, long-necked
man named Crane; or a timid, retiring student named Leverett; or an over-confident, supercilious
person called Godkin In the name of Hawthorne also we may imagine a curious significance: "When
the may is on the thorn," says Tennyson. The English country people call the flowering of the
hawthorn "the may." It is a beautiful tree when in full bloom. How sweet-scented and delicately
colored are its blossoms! But it seems to say to us, "Do not come too close to me."

CHAPTER II

BOYHOOD OF HAWTHORNE: 1804-1821

