It may be objected by some that had such been the case the Pope would not have written him
such a letter as is here cited. But consider a moment the close relations existing between
them. Roderigo was the nephew of the late Pope; in a great measure Pius II owed his election,
as we have seen, to Roderigo's action in the Conclave. That his interest in him apart from
that was paternal and affectionate is shown in every line of that letter. And consider further
that Roderigo's companion is shown by that letter to be equally guilty in so far as the acts
themselves are to be weighed, guilty in a greater degree when we remember his seniority and
his actual priesthood. Yet to Cardinal Ammanati the Pope wrote no such admonition. Is not that
sufficient proof that his admonition of Roderigo was dictated purely by his personal affection
for him?

In this same year 1460 was born to Cardinal Roderigo a son--Don Pedro Luis de Borja--by a spinster
(mulier soluta) unnamed. This son was publicly acknowledged and cared for by the cardinal.

Seven years later--in 1467--he became the father of a daughter--Girolama de Borja--by a spinster,
whose name again does not transpire. Like Pedro Luis she too was openly acknowledged by Cardinal
Roderigo. It was widely believed that this child's mother was Madonna Giovanna de' Catanei,
who soon became quite openly the cardinal's mistress, and was maintained by him in such state
as might have become a maîtresse en titre. But, as we shall see later, the fact of that maternity
of Girolama is doubtful in the extreme. It was never established, and it is difficult to understand
why not if it were the fact.

Meanwhile Paul II--Pietro Barbo, Cardinal of Venice--had succeeded Pius II in 1464, and in
1471 the latter was in his turn succeeded by the formidable Sixtus IV--Cardinal Francesco Maria
della Rovere--a Franciscan of the lowest origin, who by his energy and talents had become general
of his order and had afterwards been raised to the dignity of the purple.

It was Cardinal Roderigo de Lanzol y Borja who, in his official capacity of Archdeacon of Holy
Church, performed the ceremony of coronation and placed the triple crown on the head of Pope
Sixtus. It is probable that this was his last official act as Arch­deacon, for in that same
year 1471, at the age of forty, he was ordained priest and consecrated Bishop of Albano.

CHAPTER II. THE REIGNS OF SIXTUS IV AND INNOCENT VIII

The rule of Sixtus was as vigorous as it was scandalous. To say--as has been said--that with
his succession to St. Peter's Chair came for the Church a still sadder time than that which
had preceded it, is not altogether true. Politically, at least, Sixtus did much to strengthen
the position of the Holy See and of the Pontificate. He was not long in giving the Roman factions
a taste of his stern quality. If he employed unscrupulous means, he employed them against unscrupulous
men--on the sound principle of similia similibus curantur--and to some extent they were justified
by the ends in view.

He found the temporal throne of the Pontiffs tottering when he ascended it. Stefano Porcaro
and his distinguished following already in 1453 had attempted the overthrow of the pontifical
authority, inspired, no doubt, by the attacks that had been levelled against it by the erudite
and daring Lorenzo Valla.

This Valla was the distinguished translator of Homer, Herodotus, and Thucydides, who more than
any one of his epoch advanced the movement of Greek and Latin learning, which, whilst it had
the effect of arresting the development of Italian literature, enriched Europe by opening up
to it the sources of ancient erudition, of philosophy, poetry, and literary taste. Towards
the year 1435 he drifted to the court of Alfonso of Aragon, whose secretary he ultimately became.
Some years later he attacked the Temporal Power and urged the secularization of the States
of the Church. "Ut Papa," he wrote, "tantum Vicarius Christi sit, et non etiam Coesari." In
his De falso credita et ementita Constantini Donatione, he showed that the decretals of the
Donation of Constantine, upon which rests the Pope's claim to the Pontifical States, was an
impudent forgery, that Constantine had never had the power to give, nor had given, Rome to
the Popes, and that they had no right to govern there. He backed up this terrible indictment
by a round attack upon the clergy, its general corruption and its practices of simony; and
as a result he fell into the hands of the Inquisition. There it might have gone very ill with
him but that King Alfonso rescued him from the clutches of that dread priestly tribunal.

Meanwhile, he had fired his petard. If a pretext had been wanting to warrant the taking up
of arms against the Papacy, that pretext Valla had afforded. Never was the temporal power of
the Church in such danger, and ultimately it must inevitably have succumbed but for the coming
of so strong and unscrupulous a man as Sixtus IV to stamp out the patrician factions that were
heading the hostile movement.

His election, it is generally admitted, was simoniacal; and by simony he raised the funds necessary
for his campaign to reestablish and support the papal authority. This simony of his, says Dr.
Jacob Burckhardt, "grew to unheard-of proportions, and extended from the appointment of cardinals
down to the sale of the smallest benefice."

Had he employed these means of raising funds for none but the purpose of putting down the assailants
of the Pontificate, a measure of justification (political if not ecclesiastical) might be argued
in his favour. Unfortunately, having discovered these ready sources of revenue, he continued
to exploit them for purposes far less easy to condone.

As a nepotist Sixtus was almost unsurpassed in the history of the Papacy. Four of his nephews
and their aggrandizement were the particular objects of his attentions, and two of these--as
we have already said--Piero and Girolamo Riario, were universally recognized to be his sons.

Piero, who was a simple friar of twenty-six years of age at the time that his father became
Pope, was given the Archbishopric of Florence, made Patriarch of Constantinople, and created
Cardinal to the title of San Sisto, with a revenue of 60,000 crowns.

We have it on the word of Cardinal Ammanati(1)--the same gentleman who, with Roderigo de Lanzol
y Borja made so scandalously merry in de Bichis' garden at Siena--that Cardinal Riario's luxury
"exceeded all that had been displayed by our forefathers or that can even be imagined by our
descendants"; and Macchiavelli tells us(2) that "although of very low origin and mean rearing,
no sooner had he obtained the scarlet hat than he displayed a pride and ambition so vast that
the Pontificate seemed too small for him, and he gave a feast in Rome which would have appeared
extraordinary even for a king, the expense exceeding 20,000 florins."

     1  In a letter to Francesco Gonzaga.

     2  Istorie Florentine.

Knowing so much, it is not difficult to understand that in one year or less he should have
dissipated 200,000 florins, and found himself in debt to the extent of a further 60,000.

In 1473, Sixtus being at the time all but at war with Florence, this Cardinal Riario visited
Venice and Milan. In the latter State he was planning with Duke Galeazzo Maria that the latter
should become King of Lombardy, and then assist him with money and troops to master Rome and
ascend the Papal Throne--which, it appears, Sixtus was quite willing to yield to him--thus
putting the Papacy on a hereditary basis like any other secular State.

It is as well, perhaps, that he should have died on his return to Rome in January of 1474--worn
out by his excesses and debaucheries, say some; of poison administered by the Venetians, say
others--leaving a mass of debts, contracted in his transactions with the World, the Flesh,
and the Devil, to be cleared up by the Vicar of Christ.

His brother Girolamo, meanwhile, had married Caterina Sforza, a natural daughter of Duke Galeazzo
Maria. She brought him as her dowry the City of Imola, and in addition to this he received
from his Holiness the City of Forli, to which end the Ordelaffi were dispossessed of it. Here
again we have a papal attempt to found a family dynasty, and an attempt that might have been
carried further under circumstances more propitious and had not Death come to check their schemes.

The only one of the four "nephews" of Sixtus--and to this one was imputed no nearer kinship--who
was destined to make any lasting mark in history was Giuliano della Rovere. He was raised by
his uncle to the purple with the title of San Pietro in Vincoli, and thirty-two years later
he was to become Pope (as Julius II). Of him we shall hear much in the course of this story.

Under the pontificate of Sixtus IV the position and influence of Cardinal Roderigo were greatly
increased, for once again the Spanish Cardinal had made the most of his opportunities. As at
the election of Pius II, so at the election of Sixtus IV it was Cardinal Roderigo who led the
act of accession which gave the new Pope his tiara, and for this act Roderigo--in common with
the Cardinals Orsini and Gonzaga who acceded with him--was richly rewarded and advanced, receiving
as his immediate guerdon the wealthy Abbey of Subiaco.

At about this time, 1470, must have begun the relations between Cardinal Roderigo and Giovanna
Catanei, or Vannozza Catanei, as she is styled in contemporary documents--Vannozza being a
corruption or abbreviation of Giovannozza, an affectionate form of Giovanna.

Who she was, or whence she came, are facts that have never been ascertained. She is generally
assumed to have been a Roman; but there are no obvious grounds for the assumption, her name,
for instance, being common to many parts of Italy. And just as we have no sources of information
upon her origin, neither have we any elements from which to paint her portrait. Gregorovius
rests the probability that she was beautiful upon the known characteristics and fastidious
tastes of the cardinal. Since it is unthinkable that such a man would have been captivated
by an ugly woman or would have been held by a stupid one, it is fairly reasonable to conclude
that she was beautiful and ready-witted.

All that we do know of her up to the time of her liaison with Cardinal Roderigo is that she
was born on July 13, 1442, this fact being ascertainable by a simple calculation from the elements
afforded by the inscription on her tomb in Santa Maria del Popolo:

Vix ann. LXXVI m. IV d. XII Objit anno MDXVIII XXVI, Nov.

And again, just as we know nothing of her family origin, neither have we any evidence of what
her circumstances were when she caught the magnetic eye of Cardinal Roderigo de Lanzol y Borja--or
Borgia as by now his name, which had undergone italianization, was more generally spelled.

Infessura states in his diaries that Roderigo desiring later--as Pope Alexander VI--to create
cardinal his son by her, Cesare Borgia, he caused false witness to be borne to the fact that
Cesare was the legitimate son of one Domenico d'Arignano, to whom he, the Pope, had in fact
married her. Guicciardini(1) makes the same statement, without, however, mentioning name of
this d'Arignano.

     1  Istoria d'Italia.

Now, bastards were by canon law excluded from the purple, and it is probably upon this circumstance
that both Infessura and Guicciardini have built the assumption that some such means as these
had been adopted to circumvent the law, and--as so often happens in chronicles concerning the
Borgias--the assumption is straightway stated as a fact. But there were other ways of circumventing
awkward commandments, and, unfortunately for the accuracy of these statements of Infessura
and Guicciardini, another way was taken in this instance. As early as 1480, Pope Sixtus IV
had granted Cesare Borgia--in a Bull dated October 1(1)--dispensation from proving the legitimacy
of his birth. This entirely removed the necessity for any such subsequent measures as those
which are suggested by these chroniclers.

     1  See the supplement to the Appendix of Thuasne's edition
     of Burchard's Diarium.

Moreover, had Cardinal Roderigo desired to fasten the paternity of Cesare on another, there
was ready to his hand Vannozza's actual husband, Giorgio della Croce.(2) When exactly this
man became her husband is not to be ascertained. All that we know is that he was so in 1480,
and that she was living with him in that year in a house in Piazza Pizzo di Merlo (now Piazza
Sforza Cesarini) not far from the house on Banchi Vecchi which Cardinal Roderigo, as Vice-Chancellor,
had converted into a palace for himself, and a palace so sumptuous as to excite the wonder
of that magnificent age.

     2  D'Arignano is as much a fiction as the rest of
     Infessura's story.

This Giorgio della Croce was a Milanese, under the protection of Cardinal Roderigo, who had
obtained for him a post at the Vatican as apostolic secretary. According to some, he married
him to Vannozza in order to afford her an official husband and thus cloak his own relations
with her. It is an assumption which you will hesitate to accept. If we know our Cardinal Roderigo
at all, he was never the man to pursue his pleasures in a hole-and-corner fashion, nor one
to bethink him of a cloak for his amusements. Had he but done so, scandalmongers would have
had less to fasten upon in their work of playing havoc with his reputation. What is far more
likely is that della Croce owed Cardinal Roderigo's protection and the appointment as apostolic
secretary to his own complacency in the matter of his wife's relations with the splendid prelate.
However we look at it, the figure cut in this story by della Croce is not heroic.

Between the years 1474 and 1476, Vannozza bore Roderigo two sons, Cesare Borgia (afterwards
Cardinal of Valencia and Duke of Valentinois), the central figure of our story, and Giovanni
Borgia (afterwards Duke of Gandia).

Lucrezia Borgia, we know from documentary evidence before us, was born on April 19, 1479.

But there is a mystery about the precise respective ages of Vannozza's two eldest sons, and
we fear that at this time of day it has become impossible to establish beyond reasonable doubt
which was the firstborn; and this in spite of the documents discovered by Gregorovius and his
assertion that they remove all doubt and enable him definitely to assert that Giovanni was
born in 1474 and Cesare in 1476.

Let us look at these documents. They are letters from ambassadors to their masters; probably
correct, and the more credible since they happen to agree and corroborate one another; still,
not so utterly and absolutely reliable as to suffice to remove the doubts engendered by the
no less reliable documents whose evidence contradicts them.

The first letters quoted by Gregorovius are from the ambassador Gianandrea Boccaccio to his
master, the Duke of Ferrara, in 1493. In these he mentions Cesare Borgia as being sixteen to
seventeen years of age at the time. But the very manner of writing--"sixteen to seventeen years"--is
a common way of vaguely suggesting age rather than positively stating it. So we may pass that
evidence over, as of secondary importance.

Next is a letter from Gerardo Saraceni to the Duke of Ferrara, dated October 26, 1501, and
it is more valuable, claiming as it does to be the relation of something which his Holiness
told the writer. It is in the post-scriptum that this ambassador says: "The Pope gave me to
understand that the said Duchess [Lucrezia Borgia] will complete twenty-two years of age next
April, and at that same time the Duke of Romagna will complete his twenty-sixth year."(1)

  1  "Facendomi intendere the epsa Duchessa é di etá di anni ventidui, li
quali finiranno a questo Aprile; in el qual tempo anche lo Illmo. Duca
di Romagna fornirá anni ventisei."

This certainly fixes the year of Cesare's birth as 1476; but we are to remember that Saraceni
is speaking of something that the Pope had recently told him; exactly how recently does not
transpire. An error would easily be possible in so far as the age of Cesare is concerned. In
so far as the age of Lucrezia is concerned, an error is not only possible, but has actually
been committed by Saraceni. At least the age given in his letter is wrong by one year, as we
know by a legal document drawn up in February of 1491--Lucrezia's contract of marriage with
Don Juan Cherubin de Centelles.(2)

  2  A contract never executed.

According to this protocol in old Spanish, dated February 26, 1491, Lucrezia completed her
twelfth year on April 19, 1491,(3) which definitely and positively gives us the date of her
birth as April 19, 1479.

  3  "Item mes attenent que dita Dona Lucretia a XVIIII de Abril prop.
vinent entrará in edat de dotze anys."

A quite extraordinary error is that made by Gregorovius when he says that Lucrezia Borgia was
born on April 18, 1480, extraordinary considering that he made it apparently with this very
protocol under his eyes, and cites it, in fact (Document IV in the Appendix to his Lucrezia
Borgia) as his authority.

To return, however, to Cesare and Giovanni, there is yet another evidence quoted by Gregorovius
in support of his contention that the latter was the elder and born in 1474; but it is of the
same nature and of no more, nor less, value than those already mentioned.

Worthy of more consideration in view of their greater official and legal character are the
Ossuna documents, given in the Supplement of the Appendix in Thuasne's edition of Burchard's
Diary, namely:

(a) October 1, 1480.--A Bull from Sixtus IV, already mentioned, dispensing Cesare from proving
his legitimacy. In this he is referred to as in his sixth year--"in sexto tuo aetatis anno."

This, assuming Boccaccio's letter to be correct in the matter of April being the month of Cesare's
birth, fixes the year of his birth as 1475.

(b) August 16, 1482.--A Bull of Sixtus IV, appointing Roderigo Borgia administrator of Cesare's
benefices. In this he is mentioned as being seven years of age (i.e., presumably in his eighth
year), which again gives us his birth-year as 1475.

(c) September 12, 1484.--A Bull of Sixtus IV, appointing Cesare treasurer of the Church of
Carthage. In this he is mentioned as in his ninth year--"in nono tuo aetatis anno." This is
at variance with the other two, and gives us 1476 as the year of his birth.

To these evidences, conflicting as they are, may be added Burchard's mention in his diary under
date of September 12, 1491, that Cesare was then seventeen years of age. This would make him
out to have been born in 1474.

Clearly the matter cannot definitely be settled upon such evidence as we have. All that we
can positively assert is that he was born between the years 1474 and 1476, and we cannot, we
think, do better for the purposes of this story than assume his birth-year to have been 1475.

We know that between those same years, or in one or the other of them, was born Giovanni Borgia;
but just as the same confusion prevails with regard to his exact age, so is it impossible to
determine with any finality whether he was Cesare's junior or senior.

The one document that appears to us to be the most important in this connection is that of
the inscription on their mother's tomb. This runs:

FAUSTIAE CATHANAE, CESARE VALENTINAE, JOHANNAE CANDIAE, JUFFREDO SCYLATII, ET LUCRETIA FERRARIAE
DUCIB. FILIIS NOBILI PROBITATE INSIGNI, RELIGIONE EXIMIA, ETC., ETC.

If Giovanni was, as is claimed, the eldest of her children, why does his name come second?
If Cesare was her second son, why does his name take the first place on that inscription?

It has been urged that if Cesare was the elder of these two, he, and not Giovanni, would have
succeeded to the Duchy of Gandia on the death of Pedro Luis--Cardinal Roderigo's eldest son,
by an unknown mother. But that does not follow inevitably; for it is to be remembered that
Cesare was already destined for an ecclesiastical career, and it may well be that his father
was reluctant to change his plans.

Meanwhile the turbulent reign of Sixtus IV went on, until his ambition to increase his dominions
had the result of plunging the whole of Italy into war.

Lorenzo de'Medici had thwarted the Pope's purposes in Romagna, coming to the assistance of
Città di Castello when this was attacked in the Pope's interest by the warlike Giuliano della
Rovere. To avenge himself for this, and to remove a formidable obstacle to his family's advancement,
the Pope inspired the Pazzi conspiracy against the lives of the famous masters of Florence.
The conspiracy failed; for although Giuliano de'Medici fell stabbed to the heart--before Christ's
altar, and at the very moment of the elevation of the Host--Lorenzo escaped with slight hurt,
and, by the very risk to which he had been exposed, rallied the Florentines to him more closely
than ever.

Open war was the only bolt remaining in the papal quiver, and open war he declared, preluding
it by a Bull of Excommunication against the Florentines. Naples took sides with the Pope. Venice
and Milan came to the support of Florence, whereupon Milan's attentions were diverted to her
own affairs, Genoa being cunningly set in revolt against her.

In 1480 a peace was patched up; but it was short-lived. A few months later war flared out again
from the Holy See, against Florence this time, and on the pretext of its having joined the
Venetians against the Pope in the late war. A complication now arose, created by the Venetians,
who seized the opportunity to forward their own ambitions and increase their territories on
the mainland, and upon a pretext of the pettiest themselves declared war upon Ferrara. Genoa
and some minor tyrannies were drawn into the quarrel on the one side, whilst on the other Florence,
Naples, Mantua, Milan, and Bologna stood by Ferrara. Whilst the papal forces were holding in
check the Neapolitans who sought to pass north to aid Ferrara, whilst the Roman Campagna was
being harassed by the Colonna, and Milan was engaged with Genoa, the Venetians invested Ferrara,
forced her to starvation and to yielding-point. Thereupon the Pope, perceiving the trend of
affairs, and that the only likely profit to be derived from the campaign would lie with Venice,
suddenly changed sides that he might avoid a contingency so far removed from all his aims.

He made a treaty with Naples, and permitted the Neapolitan army passage through his territories,
of which they availed themselves to convey supplies to Ferrara and neutralize the siege. At
the same time the Pope excommunicated the Venetians, and urged all Italy to make war upon them.

In this fashion the campaign dragged on to every one's disadvantage and without any decisive
battle fought, until at last the peace of Bagnolo was concluded in August of 1484, and the
opposing armies withdrew from Ferrara.

The news of it literally killed Sixtus. When the ambassadors declared to him the terms of the
treaty he was thrown into a violent rage, and declared the peace to be at once shameful and
humiliating. The gout from which he suffered flew to his heart, and on the following day--August
12, 1484--he died.