" "What should cause that,"
said the youngest, "but the warm weather? I feel very warm too." On the opposite side of the
lake stood a splendid, brightly-lit castle, from whence resounded the joyous music of trumpets
and kettle-drums. They rowed over there, entered, and each prince danced with the girl he loved,
but the soldier danced with them unseen, and when one of them had a cup of wine in her hand
he drank it up, so that the cup was empty when she carried it to her mouth; the youngest was
alarmed at this, but the eldest always made her be silent. They danced there till three o'clock
in the morning when all the shoes were danced into holes, and they were forced to leave off;
the princes rowed them back again over the lake, and this time the soldier seated himself by
the eldest. On the shore they took leave of their princes, and promised to return the following
night. When they reached the stairs the soldier ran on in front and lay down in his bed, and
when the twelve had come up slowly and wearily, he was already snoring so loudly that they
could all hear him, and they said, "So far as he is concerned, we are safe." They took off
their beautiful dresses, laid them away, put the worn-out shoes under the bed, and lay down.
Next morning the soldier was resolved not to speak, but to watch the wonderful goings on, and
again went with them. Then everything was done just as it had been done the first time, and
each time they danced until their shoes were worn to pieces. But the third time he took a cup
away with him as a token. When the hour had arrived for him to give his answer, he took the
three twigs and the cup, and went to the King, but the twelve stood behind the door, and listened
for what he was going to say. When the King put the question, "Where have my twelve daughters
danced their shoes to pieces in the night?" he answered, "In an underground castle with twelve
princes," and related how it had come to pass, and brought out the tokens. The King then summoned
his daughters, and asked them if the soldier had told the truth, and when they saw that they
were betrayed, and that falsehood would be of no avail, they were obliged to confess all. Thereupon
the King asked which of them he would have to wife? He answered, "I am no longer young, so
give me the eldest." Then the wedding was celebrated on the self-same day, and the kingdom
was promised him after the King's death. But the princes were bewitched for as many days as
they had danced nights with the twelve.

134 The Six Servants

IN former times there lived an aged Queen who was a sorceress, and her daughter was the most
beautiful maiden under the sun. The old woman, however, had no other thought than how to lure
mankind to destruction, and when a wooer appeared, she said that whosoever wished to have her
daughter, must first perform a task, or die. Many had been dazzled by the daughter's beauty,
and had actually risked this, but they never could accomplish what the old woman enjoined them
to do, and then no mercy was shown; they had to kneel down, and their heads were struck off.
A certain King's son who had also heard of the maiden's beauty, said to his father, "Let me
go there, I want to demand her in marriage." "Never," answered the King; "if you were to go,
it would be going to your death." On this the son lay down and was sick unto death, and for
seven years he lay there, and no physician could heal him. When the father perceived that all
hope was over, with a heavy heart he said to him, "Go thither, and try your luck, for I know
no other means of curing you." When the son heard that, he rose from his bed and was well again,
and joyfully set out on his way.

And it came to pass that as he was riding across a heath, he saw from afar something like a
great heap of hay lying on the ground, and when he drew nearer, he could see that it was the
stomach of a man, who had laid himself down there, but the stomach looked like a small mountain.
When the fat man saw the traveller, he stood up and said, "If you are in need of any one, take
me into your service." The prince answered, "What can I do with such a great big man?" "Oh,"
said the Stout One, "this is nothing, when I stretch myself out well, I am three thousand times
fatter." "If that's the case," said the prince, "I can make use of thee, come with me." So
the Stout One followed the prince, and after a while they found another man who was lying on
the ground with his ear laid to the turf. "What art thou doing there?" asked the King's son.
"I am listening," replied the man. "What art thou listening to so attentively?" "I am listening
to what is just going on in the world, for nothing escapes my ears; I even hear the grass growing."
"Tell me," said the prince, "what thou hearest at the court of the old Queen who has the beautiful
daughter." Then he answered, "I hear the whizzing of the sword that is striking off a wooer's
head." The King's son said, "I can make use of thee, come with me." They went onwards, and
then saw a pair of feet lying and part of a pair of legs, but could not see the rest of the
body. When they had walked on for a great distance, they came to the body, and at last to the
head also. "Why," said the prince, "what a tall rascal thou art!" "Oh," replied the Tall One,
"that is nothing at all yet; when I really stretch out my limbs, I am three thousand times
as tall, and taller than the highest mountain on earth. I will gladly enter your service, if
you will take me." "Come with me," said the prince, "I can make use of thee." They went onwards
and found a man sitting by the road who had bound up his eyes. The prince said to him, "Hast
thou weak eyes, that thou canst not look at the light?" "No," replied the man, "but I must
not remove the bandage, for whatsoever I look at with my eyes, splits to pieces, my glance
is so powerful. If you can use that, I shall be glad to serve you." "Come with me," replied
the King's son, "I can make use of thee." They journeyed onwards and found a man who was lying
in the hot sunshine, trembling and shivering all over his body, so that not a limb was still.
"How canst thou shiver when the sun is shining so warm?" said the King's son. "Alack," replied
the man, "I am of quite a different nature. The hotter it is, the colder I am, and the frost
pierces through all my bones; and the colder it is, the hotter I am. In the midst of ice, I
cannot endure the heat, nor in the midst of fire, the cold." "Thou art a strange fellow," said
the prince, "but if thou wilt enter my service, follow me." They travelled onwards, and saw
a man standing who made a long neck and looked about him, and could see over all the mountains.
"What art thou looking at so eagerly?" said the King's son. The man replied, "I have such sharp
eyes that I can see into every forest and field, and hill and valley, all over the world."
The prince said, "Come with me if thou wilt, for I am still in want of such an one."

And now the King's son and his six servants came to the town where the aged Queen dwelt. He
did not tell her who he was, but said, "If you will give me your beautiful daughter, I will
perform any task you set me." The sorceress was delighted to get such a handsome youth as this
into her net, and said, "I will set thee three tasks, and if thou art able to perform them
all, thou shalt be husband and master of my daughter." "What is the first to be?" "Thou shalt
fetch me my ring which I have dropped into the Red Sea." So the King's son went home to his
servants and said, "The first task is not easy. A ring is to be got out of the Red Sea. Come,
find some way of doing it." Then the man with the sharp sight said, "I will see where it is
lying," and looked down into the water and said, "It is sticking there, on a pointed stone."
The Tall One carried them thither, and said, "I would soon get it out, if I could only see
it." "Oh, is that all!" cried the Stout One, and lay down and put his mouth to the water, on
which all the waves fell into it just as if it had been a whirlpool, and he drank up the whole
sea till it was as dry as a meadow. The Tall One stooped down a little, and brought out the
ring with his hand. Then the King's son rejoiced when he had the ring, and took it to the old
Queen. She was astonished, and said, "Yes, it is the right ring. Thou hast safely performed
the first task, but now comes the second. Dost thou see the meadow in front of my palace? Three
hundred fat oxen are feeding there, and these must thou eat, skin, hair, bones, horns and all,
and down below in my cellar lie three hundred casks of wine, and these thou must drink up as
well, and if one hair of the oxen, or one little drop of the wine is left, thy life will be
forfeited to me." "May I invite no guests to this repast?" inquired the prince, "no dinner
is good without some company." The old woman laughed maliciously, and replied, "Thou mayst
invite one for the sake of companionship, but no more."

The King's son went to his servants and said to the Stout One, "Thou shalt be my guest to-day,
and shalt eat thy fill." Hereupon the Stout One stretched himself out and ate the three hundred
oxen without leaving one single hair, and then he asked if he was to have nothing but his breakfast.
He drank the wine straight from the casks without feeling any need of a glass, and he licked
the last drop from his finger-nails. When the meal was over, the prince went to the old woman,
and told her that the second task also was performed. She wondered at this and said, "No one
has ever done so much before, but one task still remains," and she thought to herself, "Thou
shalt not escape me, and wilt not keep thy head on thy shoulders! This night," said she, "I
will bring my daughter to thee in thy chamber, and thou shalt put thine arms round her, but
when you are sitting there together, beware of falling asleep. When twelve o'clock is striking,
I will come, and if she is then no longer in thine arms, thou art lost." The prince thought,
"The task is easy, I will most certainly keep my eyes open." Nevertheless he called his servants,
told them what the old woman had said, and remarked, "Who knows what treachery lurks behind
this? Foresight is a good thing keep watch, and take care that the maiden does not go out of
my room again." When night fell, the old woman came with her daughter, and gave her into the
princes's arms, and then the Tall One wound himself round the two in a circle, and the Stout
One placed himself by the door, so that no living creature could enter. There the two sat,
and the maiden spake never a word, but the moon shone through the window on her face, and the
prince could behold her wondrous beauty. He did nothing but gaze at her, and was filled with
love and happiness, and his eyes never felt weary. This lasted until eleven o'clock, when the
old woman cast such a spell over all of them that they fell asleep, and at the self-same moment
the maiden was carried away.

Then they all slept soundly until a quarter to twelve, when the magic lost its power, and all
awoke again. "Oh, misery and misfortune!" cried the prince, "now I am lost!" The faithful servants
also began to lament, but the Listener said, "Be quiet, I want to listen." Then he listened
for an instant and said, "She is on a rock, three hundred leagues from hence, bewailing her
fate. Thou alone, Tall One, canst help her; if thou wilt stand up, thou wilt be there in a
couple of steps."

"Yes," answered the Tall One, "but the one with the sharp eyes must go with me, that we may
destroy the rock." Then the Tall One took the one with bandaged eyes on his back, and in the
twinkling of an eye they were on the enchanted rock. The Tall One immediately took the bandage
from the other's eyes, and he did but look round, and the rock shivered into a thousand pieces.
Then the Tall One took the maiden in his arms, carried her back in a second, then fetched his
companion with the same rapidity, and before it struck twelve they were all sitting as they
had sat before, quite merrily and happily. When twelve struck, the aged sorceress came stealing
in with a malicious face, which seemed to say, "Now he is mine!" for she believed that her
daughter was on the rock three hundred leagues off. But when she saw her in the prince's arms,
she was alarmed, and said, "Here is one who knows more than I do!" She dared not make any opposition,
and was forced to give him her daughter. But she whispered in her ear, "It is a disgrace to
thee to have to obey common people, and that thou art not allowed to choose a husband to thine
own liking."

On this the proud heart of the maiden was filled with anger, and she meditated revenge. Next
morning she caused three hundred great bundles of wood to be got together, and said to the
prince that though the three tasks were performed, she would still not be his wife until some
one was ready to seat himself in the midst of the wood, and bear the fire. She thought that
none of his servants would let themselves be burnt for him, and that out of love for her, he
himself would place himself upon it, and then she would be free. But the servants said, "Every
one of us has done something except the Frosty One, he must set to work," and they put him
in the middle of the pile, and set fire to it. Then the fire began to burn, and burnt for three
days until all the wood was consumed, and when the flames had burnt out, the Frosty One was
standing amid the ashes, trembling like an aspen leaf, and saying, "I never felt such a frost
during the whole course of my life; if it had lasted much longer, I should have been benumbed!"

As no other pretext was to be found, the beautiful maiden was now forced to take the unknown
youth as a husband. But when they drove away to church, the old woman said, "I cannot endure
the disgrace," and sent her warriors after them with orders to cut down all who opposed them,
and bring back her daughter. But the Listener had sharpened his ears, and heard the secret
discourse of the old woman. "What shall we do?" said he to the Stout One. But he knew what
to do, and spat out once or twice behind the carriage some of the sea-water which he had drunk,
and a great sea arose in which the warriors were caught and drowned. When the sorceress perceived
that, she sent her mailed knights; but the Listener heard the rattling of their armour, and
undid the bandage from one eye of Sharp-eyes, who looked for a while rather fixedly at the
enemy's troops, on which they all sprang to pieces like glass. Then the youth and the maiden
went on their way undisturbed, and when the two had been blessed in church, the six servants
took leave, and said to their master, "Your wishes are now satisfied, you need us no longer,
we will go our way and seek our fortunes."

Half a league from the palace of the prince's father was a village near which a swineherd tended
his herd, and when they came thither the prince said to his wife, "Do you know who I really
am? I am no prince, but a herder of swine, and the man who is there with that herd, is my father.
We two shall have to set to work also, and help him." Then he alighted with her at the inn,
and secretly told the innkeepers to take away her royal apparel during the night. So when she
awoke in the morning, she had nothing to put on, and the innkeeper's wife gave her an old gown
and a pair of worsted stockings, and at the same time seemed to consider it a great present,
and said, "If it were not for the sake of your husband I should have given you nothing at all!"
Then the princess believed that he really was a swineherd, and tended the herd with him, and
thought to herself, "I have deserved this for my haughtiness and pride." This lasted for a
week, and then she could endure it no longer, for she had sores on her feet. And now came a
couple of people who asked if she knew who her husband was. "Yes," she answered, "he is a swineherd,
and has just gone out with cords and ropes to try to drive a little bargain." But they said,
"Just come with us, and we will take you to him," and they took her up to the palace, and when
she entered the hall, there stood her husband in kingly raiment. But she did not recognize
him until he took her in his arms, kissed her, and said, "I suffered much for thee and now
thou, too, hast had to suffer for me." And then the wedding was celebrated, and he who has
told you all this, wishes that he, too, had been present at it.

135 The White Bride and the Black One

A WOMAN was going about the unenclosed land with her daughter and her step-daughter cutting
fodder, when the Lord came walking towards them in the form of a poor man, and asked, "Which
is the way into the village?" "If you want to know," said the mother, "seek it for yourself,"
and the daughter added, "If you are afraid you will not find it, take a guide with you." But
the step-daughter said, "Poor man, I will take you there, come with me." Then God was angry
with the mother and daughter, and turned his back on them, and wished that they should become
as black as night and as ugly as sin. To the poor step-daughter, however, God was gracious,
and went with her, and when they were near the village, he said a blessing over her, and spake,
"Choose three things for thyself, and I will grant them to thee." Then said the maiden, "I
should like to be as beautiful and fair as the sun," and instantly she was white and fair as
day. "Then I should like to have a purse of money which would never grow empty." That the Lord
gave her also, but he said, "Do not forget what is best of all." Said she, "For my third wish,
I desire, after my death, to inhabit the eternal kingdom of Heaven." That also was granted
unto her, and then the Lord left her. When the step-mother came home with her daughter, and
they saw that they were both as black as coal and ugly, but that the step-daughter was white
and beautiful, wickedness increased still more in their hearts, and they thought of nothing
else but how they could do her an injury. The step-daughter, however, had a brother called
Reginer, whom she loved much, and she told him all that had happened. Once on a time Reginer
said to her, "Dear sister, I will take thy likeness, that I may continually see thee before
mine eyes, for my love for thee is so great that I should like always to look at thee." Then
she answered, "But, I pray thee, let no one see the picture." So he painted his sister and
hung up the picture in his room; he, however, dwelt in the King's palace, for he was his coachman.
Every day he went and stood before the picture, and thanked God for the happiness of having
such a dear sister. Now it happened that the King whom he served, had just lost his wife, who
had been so beautiful that no one could be found to compare with her, and on this account the
King was in deep grief. The attendants about the court, however, remarked that the coachman
stood daily before this beautiful picture, and they were jealous of him, so they informed the
King. Then the latter ordered the picture to be brought to him, and when he saw that it was
like his lost wife in every respect, except that it was still more beautiful, he fell mortally
in love with it. He caused the coachman to be brought before him, and asked whom the portrait
represented? The coachman said it was his sister, so the King resolved to take no one but her
as his wife, and gave him a carriage and horses and splendid garments of cloth of gold, and
sent him forth to fetch his chosen bride. When Reginer came on this errand, his sister was
glad, but the black maiden was jealous of her good fortune, and grew angry above all measure,
and said to her mother, "Of what use are all your arts to us now when you cannot procure such
a piece of luck for me?" "Be quiet," said the old woman, "I will soon divert it to you," and
by her arts of witchcraft, she so troubled the eyes of the coachman that he was half-blind,
and she stopped the ears of the white maiden so that she was half-deaf. Then they got into
the carriage, first the bride in her noble royal apparel, then the step-mother with her daughter,
and Reginer sat on the box to drive. When they had been on the way for some time the coachman
cried,

"Cover thee well, my sister dear, That the rain may not wet thee, That the wind may not load
thee with dust, That thou may'st be fair and beautiful When thou appearest before the King."

The bride asked, "What is my dear brother saying?" "Ah," said the old woman, "he says that
you ought to take off your golden dress and give it to your sister." Then she took it off,
and put it on the black maiden, who gave her in exchange for it a shabby grey gown. So she
took off the hood and put it on her sister, and sat with her own head uncovered. And they drove
on farther. They were, however, just on a bridge, which crossed deep water. When the bride
stood up and leant forward out of the carriage, they both pushed her out, and she fell into
the middle of the water. At the same moment that she sank, a snow-white duck arose out of the
mirror-smooth water, and swam down the river. The brother had observed nothing of it, and drove
the carriage on until they reached the court. Then he took the black maiden to the King as
his sister, and thought she really was so, because his eyes were dim, and he saw the golden
garments glittering. When the King saw the boundless ugliness of his intended bride, he was
very angry, and ordered the coachman to be thrown into a pit which was full of adders and nests
of snakes. The old witch, however, knew so well how to flatter the King and deceive his eyes
by her arts, that he kept her and her daughter until she appeared quite endurable to him, and
he really married her.

One evening when the black bride was sitting on the King's knee, a white duck came swimming
up the gutter to the kitchen, and said to the kitchen-boy, "Boy, light a fire, that I may warm
my feathers." The kitchen-boy did it, and lighted a fire on the hearth. Then came the duck
and sat down by it, and shook herself and smoothed her feathers to rights with her bill. While
she was thus sitting and enjoying herself, she asked, "What is my brother Reginer doing?" The
scullery-boy replied, "He is imprisoned in the pit with adders and with snakes." Then she asked,
"What is the black witch doing in the house?" The boy answered, "She is loved by the King and
happy."

"May God have mercy on him," said the duck, and swam forth by the sink.

The next night she came again and put the same questions, and the third night also. Then the
kitchen-boy could bear it no longer, and went to the King and discovered all to him. The King,
however, wanted to see it for himself, and next evening went thither, and when the duck thrust
her head in through the sink, he took his sword and cut through her neck, and suddenly she
changed into a most beautiful maiden, exactly like the picture, which her brother had made
of her. The King was full of joy, and as she stood there quite wet, he caused splendid apparel
to be brought and had her clothed in it. Then she told how she had been betrayed by cunning
and falsehood, and at last thrown down into the water, and her first request was that her brother
should be brought forth from the pit of snakes, and when the King had fulfilled this request,
he went into the chamber where the old witch was, and asked, What does she deserve who does
this and that? and related what had happened. Then was she so blinded that she was aware of
nothing and said, "She deserves to be stripped naked, and put into a barrel with nails, and
that a horse should be harnessed to the barrel, and the horse sent all over the world." All
of which was done to her, and to her black daughter. But the King married the white and beautiful
bride, and rewarded her faithful brother, and made him a rich and distinguished man.

136 Iron John

THERE was once on a time a King who had a great forest near his palace, full of all kinds of
wild animals. One day he sent out a huntsman to shoot him a roe, but he did not come back.
"Perhaps some accident has befallen him," said the King, and the next day he sent out two more
huntsmen who were to search for him, but they too stayed away. Then on the third day, he sent
for all his huntsmen, and said, "Scour the whole forest through, and do not give up until ye
have found all three." But of these also, none came home again, and of the pack of hounds which
they had taken with them, none were seen more. From that time forth, no one would any longer
venture into the forest, and it lay there in deep stillness and solitude, and nothing was seen
of it, but sometimes an eagle or a hawk flying over it. This lasted for many years, when a
strange huntsman announced himself to the King as seeking a situation, and offered to go into
the dangerous forest. The King, however, would not give his consent, and said, "It is not safe
in there; I fear it would fare with thee no better than with the others, and thou wouldst never
come out again." The huntsman replied, "Lord, I will venture it at my own risk, of fear I know
nothing."

The huntsman therefore betook himself with his dog to the forest. It was not long before the
dog fell in with some game on the way, and wanted to pursue it; but hardly had the dog run
two steps when it stood before a deep pool, could go no farther, and a naked arm stretched
itself out of the water, seized it, and drew it under, When the huntsman saw that, he went
back and fetched three men to come with buckets and bale out the water. When they could see
to the bottom there lay a wild man whose body was brown like rusty iron, and whose hair hung
over his face down to his knees. They bound him with cords, and led him away to the castle.
There was great astonishment over the wild man; the King, however, had him put in an iron cage
in his court-yard, and forbade the door to be opened on pain of death, and the Queen herself
was to take the key into her keeping. And from this time forth every one could again go into
the forest with safety.

The King had a son of eight years, who was once playing in the court-yard, and while he was
playing, his golden ball fell into the cage. The boy ran thither and said, "Give me my ball
out." "Not till thou hast opened the door for me," answered the man. "No," said the boy, "I
will not do that; the King has forbidden it," and ran away. The next day he again went and
asked for his ball; the wild man said, "Open my door," but the boy would not. On the third
day the King had ridden out hunting, and the boy went once more and said, "I cannot open the
door even if I wished, for I have not the key." Then the wild man said, "It lies under thy
mother's pillow, thou canst get it there." The boy, who wanted to have his ball back, cast
all thought to the winds, and brought the key. The door opened with difficulty, and the boy
pinched his fingers. When it was open the wild man stepped out, gave him the golden ball, and
hurried away. The boy had become afraid; he called and cried after him, "Oh, wild man, do not
go away, or I shall be beaten!" The wild man turned back, took him up, set him on his shoulder,
and went with hasty steps into the forest. When the King came home, he observed the empty cage,
and asked the Queen how that had happened? She knew nothing about it, and sought the key, but
it was gone. She called the boy, but no one answered. The King sent out people to seek for
him in the fields, but they did not find him. Then he could easily guess what had happened,
and much grief reigned in the royal court.

When the wild man had once more reached the dark forest, he took the boy down from his shoulder,
and said to him, "Thou wilt never see thy father and mother again, but I will keep thee with
me, for thou hast set me free, and I have compassion on thee. If thou dost all I bid thee,
thou shalt fare well. Of treasure and gold have I enough, and more than anyone in the world."
He made a bed of moss for the boy on which he slept, and the next morning the man took him
to a well, and said, "Behold, the gold well is as bright and clear as crystal, thou shalt sit
beside it, and take care that nothing falls into it, or it will be polluted. I will come every
evening to see if thou hast obeyed my order." The boy placed himself by the margin of the well,
and often saw a golden fish or a golden snake show itself therein, and took care that nothing
fell in. As he was thus sitting, his finger hurt him so violently that he involuntarily put
it in the water. He drew it quickly out again, but saw that it was quite gilded, and whatsoever
pains he took to wash the gold off again, all was to no purpose. In the evening Iron John came
back, looked at the boy, and said, "What has happened to the well?" "Nothing, nothing," he
answered, and held his finger behind his back, that the man might not see it. But he said,
"Thou hast dipped thy finger into the water, this time it may pass, but take care thou dost
not again let anything go in." By daybreak the boy was already sitting by the well and watching
it. His finger hurt him again and he passed it over his head, and then unhappily a hair fell
down into the well. He took it quickly out, but it was already quite gilded. Iron John came,
and already knew what had happened. "Thou hast let a hair fall into the well," said he. "I
will allow thee to watch by it once more, but if this happens for the third time then the well
is polluted, and thou canst no longer remain with me."

On the third day, the boy sat by the well, and did not stir his finger, however much it hurt
him. But the time was long to him, and he looked at the reflection of his face on the surface
of the water. And as he still bent down more and more while he was doing so, and trying to
look straight into the eyes, his long hair fell down from his shoulders into the water. He
raised himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of his head was already golden and shone
like the sun. You may imagine how terrified the poor boy was! He took his pocket-handkerchief
and tied it round his head, in order that the man might not see it. When he came he already
knew everything, and said, "Take the handkerchief off." Then the golden hair streamed forth,
and let the boy excuse himself as he might, it was of no use. "Thou hast not stood the trial,
and canst stay here no longer. Go forth into the world, there thou wilt learn what poverty
is. But as thou hast not a bad heart, and as I mean well by thee, there is one thing I will
grant thee; if thou fallest into any difficulty, come to the forest and cry, 'Iron John,' and
then I will come and help thee. My power is great, greater than thou thinkest, and I have gold
and silver in abundance."

Then the King's son left the forest, and walked by beaten and unbeaten paths ever onwards until
at length he reached a great city. There he looked for work, but could find none, and he had
learnt nothing by which he could help himself. At length he went to the palace, and asked if
they would take him in. The people about court did not at all know what use they could make
of him, but they liked him, and told him to stay. At length the cook took him into his service,
and said he might carry wood and water, and rake the cinders together. Once when it so happened
that no one else was at hand, the cook ordered him to carry the food to the royal table, but
as he did not like to let his golden hair be seen, he kept his little cap on. Such a thing
as that had never yet come under the King's notice, and he said, "When thou comest to the royal
table thou must take thy hat off." He answered, "Ah, Lord, I cannot; I have a bad sore place
on my head." Then the King had the cook called before him and scolded him, and asked how he
could take such a boy as that into his service; and that he was to turn him off at once. The
cook, however, had pity on him, and exchanged him for the gardener's boy.

And now the boy had to plant and water the garden, hoe and dig, and bear the wind and bad weather.
Once in summer when he was working alone in the garden, the day was so warm he took his little
cap off that the air might cool him. As the sun shone on his hair it glittered and flashed
so that the rays fell into the bed-room of the King's daughter, and up she sprang to see what
that could be. Then she saw the boy, and cried to him, "Boy, bring me a wreath of flowers."
He put his cap on with all haste, and gathered wild field-flowers and bound them together.
When he was ascending the stairs with them, the gardener met him, and said, "How canst thou
take the King's daughter a garland of such common flowers? Go quickly, and get another, and
seek out the prettiest and rarest." "Oh, no," replied the boy, "the wild ones have more scent,
and will please her better." When he got into the room, the King's daughter said, "Take thy
cap off, it is not seemly to keep it on in my presence." He again said, "I may not, I have
a sore head." She, however, caught at his cap and pulled it off, and then his golden hair rolled
down on his shoulders, and it was splendid to behold. He wanted to run out, but she held him
by the arm, and gave him a handful of ducats. With these he departed, but he cared nothing
for the gold pieces. He took them to the gardener, and said, "I present them to thy children,
they can play with them." The following day the King's daughter again called to him that he
was to bring her a wreath of field-flowers, and when he went in with it, she instantly snatched
at his cap, and wanted to take it away from him, but he held it fast with both hands. She again
gave him a handful of ducats, but he would not keep them, and gave them to the gardener for
playthings for his children. On the third day things went just the same; she could not get
his cap away from him, and he would not have her money.

Not long afterwards, the country was overrun by war. The King gathered together his people,
and did not know whether or not he could offer any opposition to the enemy, who was superior
in strength and had a mighty army. Then said the gardener's boy, "I am grown up, and will go
to the wars also, only give me a horse." The others laughed, and said, "Seek one for thyself
when we are gone, we will leave one behind us in the stable for thee." When they had gone forth,
he went into the stable, and got the horse out; it was lame of one foot, and limped hobblety
jig, hobblety jig; nevertheless he mounted it, and rode away to the dark forest. When he came
to the outskirts, he called "Iron John," three times so loudly that it echoed through the trees.
Thereupon the wild man appeared immediately, and said, "What dost thou desire?" "I want a strong
steed, for I am going to the wars." "That thou shalt have, and still more than thou askest
for." Then the wild man went back into the forest, and it was not long before a stable-boy
came out of it, who led a horse that snorted with its nostrils, and could hardly be restrained,
and behind them followed a great troop of soldiers entirely equipped in iron, and their swords
flashed in the sun. The youth made over his three-legged horse to the stable-boy, mounted the
other, and rode at the head of the soldiers. When he got near the battle-field a great part
of the King's men had already fallen, and little was wanting to make the rest give way. Then
the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers, broke like a hurricane over the enemy, and
beat down all who opposed him. They began to fly, but the youth pursued, and never stopped,
until there was not a single man left. Instead, however, of returning to the King, he conducted
his troop by bye-ways back to the forest, and called forth Iron John. "What dost thou desire?"
asked the wild man. "Take back thy horse and thy troops, and give me my three-legged horse
again." All that he asked was done, and soon he was riding on his three-legged horse. When
the King returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him, and wished him joy of his victory.
"I am not the one who carried away the victory," said he, "but a stranger knight who came to
my assistance with his soldiers." The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was, but
the King did not know, and said, "He followed the enemy, and I did not see him again." She
inquired of the gardener where his boy was, but he smiled, and said, "He has just come home
on his three-legged horse, and the others have been mocking him, and crying, "Here comes our
hobblety jig back again!" They asked, too, "Under what hedge hast thou been lying sleeping
all the time?" He, however, said, "I did the best of all, and it would have gone badly without
me." And then he was still more ridiculed."

The King said to his daughter, "I will proclaim a great feast that shall last for three days,
and thou shalt throw a golden apple. Perhaps the unknown will come to it." "That I may catch
the King's daughter's golden apple." "It is as safe as if thou hadst it already," said Iron
John. "Thou shalt likewise have a suit of red armour for the occasion, and ride on a spirited
chestnut-horse." When the day came, the youth galloped to the spot, took his place amongst
the knights, and was recognized by no one. The King's daughter came forward, and threw a golden
apple to the knights, but none of them caught it but he, only as soon as he had it he galloped
away.

On the second day Iron John equipped him as a white knight, and gave him a white horse. Again
he was the only one who caught the apple, and he did not linger an instant, but galloped off
with it. The King grew angry, and said, "That is not allowed; he must appear before me and
tell his name." He gave the order that if the knight who caught the apple, should go away again
they should pursue him, and if he would not come back willingly, they were to cut him down
and stab him.

On the third day, he received from Iron John a suit of black armour and a black horse, and
again he caught the apple. But when he was riding off with it, the King's attendants pursued
him, and one of them got so near him that he wounded the youth's leg with the point of his
sword. The youth nevertheless escaped from them, but his horse leapt so violently that the
helmet fell from the youth's head, and they could see that he had golden hair. They rode back
and announced this to the King.

The following day the King's daughter asked the gardener about his boy. "He is at work in the
garden; the queer creature has been at the festival too, and only came home yesterday evening;
he has likewise shown my children three golden apples which he has won."

