After Mr. Cheever's house had received all this painstaking attention of the town, it was voted
that the selectmen should see that a new schoolhouse be built for him in the place of the old
one; this to be done with the advice of Mr. Cheever. The particulars of this work are given
in as much detail, and are interesting to show the style of schoolhouse at that day. They are
as follows, in the "Selectmen's Minutes, under July 24, 1704":--

  "Agreed w'th M'r John Barnerd as followeth, he to build a new School
  House of forty foot Long Twenty five foot wide and Eleven foot Stud,
  with eight windows below and five in the Roofe, with wooden Casements to
  the eight Windows, to Lay the lower floor with Sleepers & double boards
  So far as needful, and the Chamber floor with Single boards, to board
  below the plate inside & inside and out, to Clapboard the Outside and
  Shingle the Roof, to make a place to hang the Bell in, to make a paire
  of Staires up to the Chamber, and from thence a Ladder to the bell, to
  make one door next the Street, and a petition Cross the house below, and
  to make three rows of benches for the boyes on each Side of the room,
  to find all Timber, boards, Clapboards shingles nayles hinges. In
  consideration whereof the s'd M'r John Barnerd is to be paid One
  hundred pounds, and to have the Timber, Boards, and Iron worke of the
  Old School House."

Some interesting reminiscences are given, by some of his pupils, of these school-days in Boston.
The Reverend John Barnard, of Marblehead, who was born in Boston in 1681, speaks of his early
days at the Latin School, in his Autobiography, which is now in the Massachusetts Historical
Society. Among other things he says: "I remember once, in making a piece of Latin, my master
found fault with the syntax of one word, which was not used by me heedlessly, but designedly,
and therefore I told him there was a plain grammar rule for it. He angrily replied, there was
no such rule. I took the grammar and showed the rule to him. Then he smilingly said, 'Thou
art a brave boy; I had forgot it.' And no wonder: for he was then above eighty years old."
President Stiles of Yale College, in his Diary, says that he had seen a man who said that he
"well knew a famous grammar-school master, Mr. E. Cheever, of Boston, author of The Accidence;
that he wore a long white beard, terminating in a point; that when he stroked his beard to
the point, it was a sign for the boys to stand clear."

Judge Sewall, in his Diary, often refers to him. He speaks of a visit from him, at one time,
when Mr. Cheever told him that he had entered his eighty-eighth year, and was the oldest man
in town; and another time, when he says: "Master Chiever, his coming to me last Saturday January
31, on purpose to tell me he blessed God that I had stood up for the Truth, is more comfort
to me than Mr. Borland's unhandsomeness is discomfort." He also speaks of him as being a bearer
several times at funerals, where, at one, with others, he received a scarf and ring which were
"given at the House after coming from the Grave." A peculiarity of the venerable schoolmaster
is seen where Judge Sewall says: "Mr. Wadsworth appears at Lecture in his Perriwigg. Mr. Chiever
is grieved at it." In 1708, the judge gives in this Diary some touching particulars as to the
sickness and death of Mr. Cheever. They are valuable not only for themselves, but as preserving
in a literary form the close friendship which existed between these two strong men of that
day. Hence they are given here:--

"Aug. 12, 1708.--Mr. Chiever is abroad and hears Mr. Cotton Mather preach. This is the last
of his going abroad. Was taken very sick, like to die with a Flux. Aug. 13.--I go to see him,
went in with his son Thomas and Mr. Lewis. His Son spake to him and he knew him not; I spake
to him and he bid me speak again; then he said, Now I know you, and speaking cheerily mentioned
my name. I ask'd his Blessing for me and my family; He said I was Bless'd, and it could not
be Reversed. Yet at my going away He pray'd for a Blessing for me.

"Aug. 19.--I visited Mr. Chiever again, just before Lecture; Thank'd him for his kindness to
me and mine; desired his prayers for me, my family, Boston, Salem, the Province. He rec'd me
with abundance of Affection, taking me by the hand several times. He said, The Afflictions
of God's people, God by them did as a Goldsmith, knock, knock, knock; knock, knock, knock,
to finish the plate; It was to perfect them not to punish them. I went and told Mr. Pemberton
(the Pastor of Old South) who preached.

"Aug. 20.--I visited Mr. Chiever who was now grown much weaker, and his speech very low. He
call'd Daughter! When his daughter Russel came, He ask'd if the family were composed; They
aprehended He was uneasy because there had not been Prayer that morn; and solicited me to Pray;
I was loth and advised them to send for Mr. Williams, as most natural, homogeneous; They declined
it, and I went to Prayer. After, I told him, The last enemy was Death, and God hath made that
a friend too; He put his hand out of the Bed, and held it up, to signify his Assent. Observing
he suck'd a piece of an Orange, put it orderly into his mouth and chew'd it, and then took
out the core. After dinner I carried a few of the best Figs I could get and a dish Marmalet.
I spake not to him now.

"Aug. 21.--Mr. Edward Oakes tells me Mr. Chiever died this last night."

Then in a note he tells the chief facts in his life, which he closes with,--

"So that he has Laboured in that calling (teaching) skilfully, diligently, constantly, Religiously,
Seventy years. A rare Instance of Piety, Health, Strength, Serviceableness. The Wellfare of
the Province was much upon his spirit. He abominated Perriwiggs."

"Aug. 23, 1708.--Mr. Chiever was buried from the Schoolhouse. The Gov'r, Councillors, Ministers,
Justices, Gentlemen there. Mr. Williams made a handsome Latin Oration in his Honour. Elder
Bridgham, Copp, Jackson, Dyer, Griggs, Hubbard, &c., Bearers. After the Funeral, Elder Bridgham,
Mr. Jackson, Hubbard, Dyer, Tim. Wadsworth, Edw. Procter, Griggs, and two more came to me and
earnestly solicited me to speak to a place of Scripture, at the private Quarter Meeting in
the room of Mr. Chiever."

Cotton Mather, who had been a pupil of his, preached a funeral sermon in honor of his loved
teacher. It was printed in Boston in 1708, and later in 1774. A copy of it in the Athenæum
is well worth a perusal. Some of Mr. Cheever's Latin poems are attached to it. Cotton Mather
precedes his sermon by An Historical Introduction, in which, after referring to his great privilege,
he gives the main facts in the long life of the schoolmaster of nearly ninety-four years. In
closing it, he says: "After he had been a Skilful, Painful, Faithful Schoolmaster for Seventy
years; and had the Singular Favours of Heaven that tho' he had Usefully spent his Life among
children, yet he was not become Twice a child but held his Abilities, with his usefulness,
in an unusual Degree to the very last." Then follows the sermon, remarkable in its way as a
eulogy. But the Essay in Rhyme in Memory of his "Venerable Master," which follows the sermon,
is even more characteristic and remarkable. In it are some couplets which are unique and interesting.

  "Do but name Cheever, and the Echo straight
  Upon that name. Good Latin will Repeat.

  "And in our School, a Miracle is wrought:
  For the Dead Languages to Life are brought.

  "Who serv'd the School, the Church, did not forget,
  But Thought and Prayed & often wept for it.

  "How oft we saw him tread the Milky Way
  Which to the Glorious Throne of Mercy lay!

  "Come from the Mount he shone with ancient Grace,
  Awful the Splendor of his Aged Face.

  "He Liv'd and to vast age no Illness knew,
  Till Times Scythe waiting for him Rusty grew.

  "He Liv'd and Wrought; His Labours were Immense,
  But ne'r Declined to Præter-perfect Tense."

He closes this eulogy with an epitaph in Latin.

Mr. Cheever's will, found in the Suffolk probate office, was offered by his son Thomas and
his daughter Susanna, August 26, 1708, a few days after his death. He wrote it two years previous,
when he was ninety-one years old, a short time before his "dear wife," whom he mentions, died.
In it his estate is appraised at £837:19:6. One handles reverently this old piece of yellow
paper, perhaps ten by twelve inches in size, with red lines, on which is written in a clear
handwriting the last will of this dear old man. He characteristically begins it thus:--

  "In nomine Domini Amen, I Ezekiel Cheever of the Towne of Boston in the
  County of Suffolk in New England, Schoolmaster, living through great
  mercy in good health and understanding wonderfull in my age, do make and
  ordain this as my last Will & Testament as Followeth: I give up my soule
  to God my Father in Jesus Christ, my body to the earth to be buried in a
  decent manner according to my desires in hope of a Blessed part in y'e
  first resurrection & glorious kingdom of Christ on earth a thousand
  years."

He then gives all his household goods "& of my plate y'e two-ear'd Cup, my least tankard porringer
a spoon," to his wife; "all my books saving what Ezekiel may need & what godly books my wife
may desire," to his son Thomas; £10 to Mary Phillips; £20 to his grandchild, Ezekiel Russel;
and £5 to the poor. The remainder of the estate he leaves to his wife and six children, Samuel,
Mary, Elizabeth, Ezekiel, Thomas, and Susanna.

One handles still more reverently a little brown, stiff-covered book, kept in the safe in the
Athenæum, of about one hundred and twenty pages, yellow with age, on the first of which is
the year "1631," and on the second, "Ezekiel Cheever, his booke," both in his own handwriting.
Then come nearly fifty pages of finely-written Latin poems, composed and written by himself,
probably in London; then, there are scattered over some of the remaining pages a few short-hand
notes which have been deciphered as texts of Scripture. On the last page of this quaint little
treasure--only three by four inches large--are written in English some verses, one of which
can be clearly read as, "Oh, first seek the kingdom of God and his Righteousness, and all things
else shall be added unto you."

Another MS. of Mr. Cheever's is in the possession of the Massachusetts Historical Society.
It is a book six by eight inches in size, of about four hundred pages, all well filled with
Latin dissertations, with occasionally a mathematical figure drawn. One turns over the old
leaves with affectionate interest, even if the matter written upon them is beyond his comprehension.
It certainly is a pleasure to read on one of them the date May 18, 1664.

Verily, New England should treasure the memory of Ezekiel Cheever, the man who called himself
"Schoolmaster," for she owes much to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POET OF THE BELLS.

By E.H. Goss.

Longfellow may well be called the Poet of the Bells; for who has so largely voiced their many
uses as he, or interpreted the part they have taken in the world's history. That he was a great
lover of bells and bell music is evinced by the many times he chose them as themes for his
poems; nearly a dozen of which are about them, containing some of the sweetest of his thoughts;
and allusions to them, like this from Evangeline,--

  Anon from the belfry
  Softly the Angelus sounded,"--

are sprinkled all through his longer poems, as well as his prose.

And this last stanza must contain the last words that came from his pen:--

  "O Bells of San Blas, in vain
  Ye call back the Fast again!
    The Past is deaf to your prayer:
  Out of the shadows of night
  The world rolls into light;
    It is daybreak everywhere."

One of his latest sonnets is entitled Chimes.

  "Sweet chimes! that in the loneliness of night
  Salute the passing hour, and in the dark
  And silent chambers of the household mark
  The movements of the myriad orbs of light!"

This was sung of the beautiful clock that

  "Half-way up the stairs it stands"

in his mansion at Cambridge, by so many thought to be the one referred to in The Old Clock
on the Stairs. But no; that one was in the "Gold House" at Pittsfield, and is now in disuse;
while this one is a fine piece of mechanism, striking the coming hour on each half hour, and
on the hour itself sweet carillons are played for several moments, so familiar to the poet
that it is no wonder that to hear it he says,--

  "Better than sleep it is to lie awake."

In the prologue to The Golden Legend, we have the attempt of Lucifer and the Powers of the
Air to tear down the cross from the spire of the Strasburg Cathedral, with the remonstrance
of the bells interwoven:

  "Laudo Deum verum!        Funera plango!
  Plebem voco!              Fulgura frango!
  Congrego clerum!          Sabbata pango!

  "Defunctus ploro!         Excito lentos!
  Pestem fugo!              Dissipo ventos!
  Festa decoro!             Paco cruentos!"

  "I praise the true God, call the people, convene  the clergy;
  I mourn the dead, dispel the pestilence, and grace festivals;
  I mourn at the burial, abate the lightnings, announce the Sabbath;
  I arouse the indolent, dissipate the winds, and appease the avengeful." O bells of Lynn!
  O requiem of the dying day! O bells of Lynn!"

In the Curfew he quaintly and beautifully reminds us of the old couvre-feu bell of the days
of William the Conqueror, a custom still kept up in many of the towns and hamlets of England,
and some of our own towns and cities; and until recently the nine-o'clock bell greeted the
ears of Bostonians, year in and year out.

Indeed, many are the sweet and musical strains that he has sung about the bells, and he often
wished that "somebody would bring together all the best things that have been written upon
them, both in prose and verse."

Southey calls bells "the poetry of the steeples"; and the poets of all ages have had more or
less to say upon this subject. Quaint old George Herbert told us to

  "Think when the bells do chime
  'Tis Angel's music!"

It was a curious theory of Frater Johannes Drabicius, that the principal employment of the
blessed in heaven will be the continual ringing of bells; and he occupied four hundred and
twenty-five pages of a work printed at Mentz, in 1618, to prove the same.

Truly has it been said: "From youth to age the sound of the bell is sent forth through crowded
streets, or floats with sweetest melody above the quiet fields. It gives a tongue to time,
which would otherwise pass over our heads as silently as the clouds, and lends a warning to
its perpetual flight. It is the voice of rejoicing at festivals, at christenings, at marriages,
and of mourning at the departure of the soul. From every church-tower it summons the faithful
of distant valleys to the house of God; and when life is ended they sleep within the bell's
deep sound. Its tone, therefore, comes to be fraught with memorial associations, and we know
what a throng of mental images of the past can be aroused by the music of a peal of bells.

  'O, what a preacher is the time-worn tower,
  Reading great sermons with its iron tongues.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

CHELSEA.

By William E. McClintock, C.E.

[City Engineer of Chelsea.]

Sheltered from the winds of the Atlantic by the outlying towns of Revere and Winthrop, and
that section of the metropolis known as East Boston, Chelsea occupies a peninsula, once called
Winnisimmet, fronting on the Mystic River and its two tributaries, the Island End and Chelsea
Rivers. Its area of fourteen hundred acres presents an undulating surface, rising from the
level of the salt marshes to four considerable elevations, known as Hospital Hill, Mount Bellingham,
Powderhom Hill, and Mount Washington.

Originally it was included within the township of Boston, and was settled as early as 1630;
and a few years later was connected with Boston by the Winnisimmet Ferry, whose charter, granted
in 1639, makes it the oldest chartered ferry company in the United States.

In those early days the Winnisimmet Ferry connected the foot of Hanover Street, in Boston,
with the old road leading to Salem and the eastward, which followed the course of Washington
Avenue.

Samuel Maverick, of Noddle's Island, an early settler, was the first claimant of the land.
Richard Bellingham, "the unbending, faithful old man, skilled from his youth in English law,
perhaps the draughtsman of the charter [of the Massachusetts Colony], certainly familiar with
it from its beginning, was chosen to succeed Endicott," as governor. About 1634, he came into
possession of most of Winnisimmet, but his title was rather obscure; it was confirmed to him,
however, by the town of Boston, in 1640. He is not known to have lived upon his estate. He
divided the land into four farms, which he let to tenants,--subdivisions which remained substantially
the same for two centuries. The government reservation is said to have remained in the possession
of Samuel Maverick.

Governor Bellingham died in 1672, at the age of eighty, and, although a lawyer and a good man,
left behind him a will which gave rise to litigation that continued for over a century. As
this instrument affects every title in Chelsea, it becomes of public interest. He bequeathed
the estate of Winnisimmet to trustees, to be devoted to the support of his widow, his son,
and his two nieces, during their lives, after which it was to be used to build a meeting-house,
support a minister, and educate a limited number of young men for the ministry.

The son, Dr. Samuel Bellingham, after the death of his father, contested the will in court,
and had it set aside.

After his death the trustees named in the will brought a suit to carry into effect the directions
of the old governor. One by one they dropped out of the contest, silenced by death, until at
length the town authorities undertook to maintain their supposed rights. It was not until 1788,
after the close of the Revolution, that the case was finally decided, and the town was defeated.

After over a century of outlying dependence, and forced attendance in all weathers at the churches
in Boston, the good people of Winnisimmet, Rumney Marsh, and Pullen Point, having demonstrated
their willingness and ability to support a minister, petitioned for and obtained the privileges
of a new parish and township, named Chelsea.[3] Rumney Marsh is now known as Revere, and Pullen
Point as Winthrop. The new township also included a strip of land half a mile wide and four
miles long, extending north-westerly through what is now Maiden and Melrose, well into the
town of Wakefield, and at present forming a part of Saugus.

The old Town House, or meeting-house, built in 1710, and still standing, was at Rumney Marsh.

The earliest census of the town, on record, was taken in 1776, and indicated a population of
four hundred and thirty-nine.

The Reverend Dr. Tuckerman was settled over the parish, which included the whole township,
in 1801, and for a quarter of a century ministered to the people of an almost stationary community.
During that time, only three new buildings were erected; and they were built to replace as
many torn down.

In 1802, the Chelsea Bridge was built, to form a part of the turnpike (Broadway) leading from
Charlestown to Salem. Before that time, the only way to reach Boston from Chelsea, with a loaded
team, was through Malden, Medford, Cambridge, and Roxbury, over the Neck, requiring a whole
day to make the journey.

As late as 1830, Winnisimmet was of no importance except as a market-garden and thoroughfare.
Of the seven hundred and seventy-one inhabitants of Chelsea, but thirty lived within the present
limits of the city. The original Bellingham subdivisions were known as the Cary, Carter, Shurtleff,
and Williams Farms, and were owned and occupied by those families. Three years previously,
in 1827, the general government had secured possession of the hospital reservation, which it
still occupies. About 1831, the value of Winnisimmet as the site for a future city became apparent,
and a land company was formed, which secured the Shurtleff and Williams Farms, and laid out
a very attractive city--on paper.

The ferry accommodations at this date consisted of two sailboats of about forty tons each.
During the following summer the steam ferry-boats, Boston and Chelsea, were put on the line,
and increased the value of property in Chelsea. These boats were the first of the kind to navigate
the waters of Boston Harbor.

In 1832, John Low built the first store, at the corner of Broadway and Everett Avenue, and
was the pioneer merchant of the city. The newcomers, known to the older inhabitants as "roosters,"
settled principally in the neighborhood of the landing. So many came, that in 1840 there were
in the town twenty-three hundred and ninety inhabitants. In 1832, the omnibus, "North Ender,"
commenced running from Chelsea Ferry landing to Boylston Market; the fare was twelve and one-half
cents. The "Governor Brooks," the first 'bus in Boston, had been running about a week before.
It was twenty years later when an omnibus line was established for the convenience of the village.

To town meetings at Rumney Marsh the settlers at the landing had to tramp to vote on questions
affecting the town. Right bravely would they attend to their duties as citizens, to find their
efforts of no avail on account of the sharp practices of their neighbors of the Marsh and Point,
who would reverse their action at an adjourned meeting. At length, in overwhelming numbers,
they assembled once upon a time, and voted a new Town House, near the site of the present Catholic
church. As a consequence, North Chelsea was set off in 1846, and Chelsea shrank to its present
boundaries. In 1850, notwithstanding the loss of so large an extent of territory, Chelsea numbered
sixty-seven hundred and one inhabitants. Seven years later, in 1857, the town was granted a
city charter; it was divided into four wards, and Colonel Francis B. Fay was inaugurated the
first mayor.

From that time the growth of the city has been rapid. In 1860, there were 13,395 inhabitants;
in 1870, 18,547; in 1880, 21,785; to-day there are probably 24,000. The Honorable Hosea Ilsley
was the second mayor; he was succeeded by the Honorable Frank B. Fay, in 1861; by the Honorable
Eustace C. Fitz, in 1864; by the Honorable Rufus S. Frost, in 1867; by the Honorable James
B. Forsyth, M.D., in 1869; by the Honorable John W. Fletcher, in 1871; by the Honorable Charles
H. Ferson, in 1873; by the Honorable Thomas Green, in 1876; by the Honorable Isaac Stebbins,
in 1877; by the Honorable Andrew J. Bacon, in 1879; by the Honorable Samuel P. Tenney, in 1881;
by the Honorable Thomas Strahan, the present mayor, in 1883.

In 1849, the railway connected Chelsea with Boston, and in 1857 the horse-cars commenced running.

During the Rebellion, Chelsea responded loyally for troops. In the Union army there were sixteen
hundred and fifty-one soldiers from Chelsea. Of that number, forty-two were killed in battle;
sixteen died of wounds; seventy-five died in hospitals; nine died in Rebel prisons; besides
one hundred and four who were more or less seriously wounded. The city also furnished one hundred
and thirty-seven recruits for the navy during the war. The city has commemorated those heroes
who died for their country, by a very appropriate monument in Union Park.

The conservative character of the political fathers of the city may be judged by the fact that
Samuel Bassett, who was first elected town clerk in 1849, has served the town and city continuously
in that capacity to the present time. For the half-century before his election there had been
only three incumbents of the office.

The efforts of the land company, who fostered the early growth of the city, were directed to
induce people doing business in Boston to select homesteads in Chelsea; but manufacturing was
gradually introduced, until to-day many important industries have become established, which
have given the place a world-wide reputation. Chief among these are the works of the Magee
Furnace Company. Their buildings occupy a lot of several acres, fronting on Chelsea River.
Here the celebrated Magee stove, in all its various forms and patterns, is manufactured from
the crude iron. The establishment consumes two thousand tons of coal annually, and converts
four thousand tons of pig-iron into graceful and useful articles. John Magee, the organizer
and president of the company, is the patentee of all the improvements. The works were established
in Chelsea in 1864; they employ five hundred operatives, and produce thirty thousand stoves
and furnaces yearly. These are shipped by car-load all through the Northern and Western States,
to the Pacific slope, reaching Oregon without breaking bulk. Their goods are sold in England,
Sweden, Turkey, Cape Colony, Australia, China, and the islands of the Pacific, although the
home demand almost forbids their seeking a foreign market. The popularity of their work may
be known from the fact that one hundred and fifty thousand stoves of one pattern have been
sold. The iron entering into the manufacture of stoves must be of a peculiar fineness of texture.
The best of ore of three or four qualities is mixed, frequently tested, and constantly watched
during the manufacturing process.

The beauty of their stove castings has led to a new industry,--the fine-art castings,--in which
the most marvelous results are produced. Professional artists and art critics are constantly
employed in the establishment, and many thousand dollars are judiciously expended yearly, for
the purpose of forming and perfecting new designs to meet the popular demand.

Another celebrated industry of Chelsea is the manufacture of the Low tiles, for household decoration.
John G. Low, son of the pioneer merchant, is the artist who has created this class of goods,
and he has succeeded in producing a tile of special artistic value. His work surpasses anything
of the kind made in the world, and finds a market wherever works of art and beauty are appreciated.

There are several establishments in the city, for the manufacture of rubber goods of every
variety, and many hundred operatives find employment therein.

The famous "Globe Works" are soon to be occupied by the extensive establishment of the Forbes
Lithograph Company.

The Keramic Art Works of J. Robertson and Sons are noted throughout the land for the beauty
of their products.

The pioneer manufacturers of the city are the firm of Bisbee, Endicott, and Company, who established
a machine-shop in 1836, and a foundry in 1846, and are still in business.

Aside from these, Chelsea manufactures anchors, pilot-bread, mattresses, bluing, boxes, bricks,
britannia ware, brooms, cardigan jackets, carriages, chairs, cigars, confectionery, enameled
cloth, fire-brick, furniture, hose, lamp-black, lumber, oils, wall-paper, planes, pottery,
roofing, salt, soap, spices, type, tinware, varnish, vaccine matter, vessels, yeast, and window-shades,--giving
employment to a very large number of skilled artisans.

There are two well-managed banks in the city, two ably-conducted newspapers, one large and
several small hotels, and an Academy of Music, which is one of the finest provincial theatres
in New England, boasting of a fine auditorium and a well-appointed stage.

The Naval Hospital, which generally accommodates about a dozen patients, occupies eighty acres
of the most desirable part of the city, the hill upon which it is built overlooking Mystic River.

The Marine Hospital, in the same neighborhood, which has usually from seventy-five to eighty
patients from the ranks of our mercantile marine, occupies a lot of about ten acres.

Powderhorn Hill the summit of which is about two hundred feet above the level of the sea, commands
a fine view of Boston Harbor, the ocean, and many miles of inland territory. Chelsea is spread
out like a map at its base. It has been the dream of enthusiastic admirers of the varied scenery
afforded from the top, to include it within the limits of a public park, forever set apart
for the benefit of the present and coming generations. Half-way up the side of the hill stands
the Soldiers' Home, where many scarred veterans of the Union army find a safe haven, cared
for by those who appreciate their struggles in their country's cause. The city, although occupying
narrow limits, has become a very attractive place for residence. The streets are broad, straight,
and shaded by very many thrifty trees. The water-works, organized in 1867, supply good water;
gas is furnished at reasonable rates, and the city has nearly completed a system of sewerage,
which adds to the comfort and health of the people. The public buildings are commodious and
ornamental. Churches of pleasing architecture, of many religious denominations, appropriate
school buildings and good schools, spacious and elegant private mansions, a well-organized
fire and police department, a public library, low death-rate, and good morals, serve to make
the city of Chelsea a very desirable place for those seeking a quiet home in a law-abiding
municipality.

All through the colonial period the civil affairs of the community were intimately connected
with the interests of the church; and ecclesiastical history, when church and State were united,
and the minister was the greatest man of the parish, becomes of importance.

As early as 1640, in the church of Boston, "a motion was made by such as have farms at Rumney
Marsh, that our Brother Oliver may be sent to instruct our servants, and to be a help to them,
because they cannot many times come hither, nor sometimes to Lynn, and sometimes no where at
all." The piously disposed people of Boston evidently commiserated the destitute condition
of their poor dependents, and were desirous of ministering to their spiritual wants.

For many years the inhabitants of this section received the benefit of irregular preaching
from Brother Oliver and other kindly disposed ministers from neighboring parishes. The wishes
of Governor Bellingham to provide for their wants had been frustrated, as before narrated.
Prior to 1706, the people were nominally connected with some church in Charlestown or Boston.
In that year, at the March meeting of the town of Boston, a committee was appointed to consider
what they should think proper to lay before the town relating to petitions of sundry of the
inhabitants of Rumney Marsh about the building of a meeting-house. Action was postponed, from
year to year, until August 29, 1709, when it was voted to raise one hundred pounds, to be laid
out "in building a meeting-house at Rumney Marsh." The raising of the frame was in July of
the following year.

The Reverend Thomas Cheever, son of the famous schoolmaster, was chosen pastor October 17,
1715, and was dismissed December 21, 1748. At the formation of the church, the Reverend Cotton
Mather, D.D., was moderator, and there were eight male members, including the pastor.

The Reverend Thomas Cheever was born in 1658; was graduated at Harvard College in 1677; was
ordained and settled in Maiden, July 27, 1681; was dismissed in 1686, "on the advice of an
ecclesiastical council"; removed to Rumney Marsh and lived in the Newgate House; taught school
many years, and preached occasionally; died December 27, 1749, aged about ninety-two years.

Toward the close of his ministry, the Reverend William McClenachan was installed as Mr. Cheever's
colleague, although considerable opposition was manifested, and several prominent members withdrew
to other churches. The connection of the pastor with the church continued until December 25,
1754, when Mr. McClenachan left them and joined the Established Church of England. He was a
man of remarkable eloquence, and soon after his resignation of the pastorate of the Chelsea
parish, he went to England.

The Reverend Phillips Payson was settled as pastor, October 26, 1757. He was a noted scholar
and teacher, and was a man of much influence in his day. He was an active patriot during the
Revolution, led his parishioners in person, and held a commission from the Massachusetts authorities.
He preached the Election Sermon in 1778, and died in office, January 11, 1801. He was born
in Walpole, January 18, 1730, and was graduated at Harvard College in 1754.

The Reverend Joseph Tuckerman, D.D., was ordained and settled over the parish November 4, 1801,
and maintained this relation for just one quarter of a century, preaching his farewell sermon
November 4, 1826. He was born in Boston, January 18, 1778; was graduated at Harvard College
in 1798; died in Havana, April 20, 1840.

The First Baptist Church, the first religious society at Ferry Village, was organized in 1836.

The Unitarian Church was organized in 1838.

The First Methodist Episcopal Church was organized in 1839. The meeting-house they first occupied
was on Park Street; it has been recently sold to the Grand Army of the Republic. The edifice
they now occupy is on Walnut Street.

The St. Luke's Episcopal Church and the First Congregational Church were organized in 1841.

The First Universalist Church was organized in 1842.

The Central Congregational Church was organized in 1843, under the name of Winnisimmet.

The St. Rose Catholic Church was organized in 1849.

The Mount Bellingham Methodist Episcopal Church was organized in 1853.

The Cary-avenue Baptist Church was organized in 1859.

The Third Congregational Church was organized in 1877.

The importance of education for the children was recognized at an early date by the settlers
of Winnisimmet and Rumney Marsh. Brother Oliver may have given instruction; Thomas Cheever
certainly did, and for his services received twenty pounds per annum from the town of Boston,
as shown by the vote of January 24, 1709.

In 1833, the town of Chelsea was divided into three districts, known as the Ferry, Centre,
and Point. In 1834, Point Shirley district was set off from the Point; and in 1838 the northern
district was set off from the Centre. The school committee, first elected in 1797, made their
first written report in 1839; their first printed report in 1841.

The first schoolhouse in Ferry district was built in 1833, near the corner of Chestnut Street
and Washington Avenue.

In 1837, the Park-street schoolhouse was built, and the following year a grammar school was kept.

In 1839, a primary school was started at Prattville. From the committee's report one is led
to infer "that a stump with a piece of board on top for a seat, having no back attached, affords
no enviable resting-place."

