Two days after the date of the charter these promised "laws," etc., were issued, and, though
not preserved in their original form, they were probably very similar to the articles published
during the following November.[6] According to these last, the superior council, resident in
England, was permitted to name the colonial councils, which were to have power to pass ordinances
not repugnant to the orders of the king and superior council; to elect or remove their presidents,
to remove any of their members, to supply their own vacancies; and to decide all cases occurring
in the colony, civil as well as criminal, not affecting life or limb. Capital offences were
to be tried by a jury of twelve persons, and while to all intents and purposes the condition
of the colonists did not differ from soldiers subject to martial law, it is to the honor of
King James that he limited the death penalty to tumults, rebellion, conspiracy, mutiny, sedition,
murder, incest, rape, and adultery, and did not include in the number of crimes either witchcraft
or heresy. The articles also provided that all property of the two companies should be held
in a "joint stock" for five years after the landing.[7]

The charter being thus secured, both companies proceeded to procure emigrants; and they had
not much difficulty, as at this time there were many unemployed people in England. The wool
culture had converted great tracts of arable land in England into mere pastures for sheep,[8]
and the closure of the monasteries and religious houses removed the support from thousands
of English families. Since 1585 this surplus humanity had found employment in the war with
Spain, but the return of peace in 1605 had again thrown them upon society, and they were eager
for chances, no matter how remote, of gold-mines and happy homes beyond the seas.[9]

Hence, in three months' time the Plymouth Company had all things in readiness for a trial voyage,
and August 12, 1606, they sent out a ship commanded by Henry Challons with twenty-nine Englishmen
and two Indians brought into England by Weymouth the year before. Two months later sailed another
ship (of which Thomas Hanham was captain and Martin Pring master), "with all necessary supplies
for the seconding of Captain Challons and his people." Unfortunately, Captain Challons's vessel
and crew were taken by the Spaniards in the West Indies, and, though Hanham and Pring reached
the coast of America, they returned without making a settlement.[10] Nevertheless, they brought
back, as Sir Ferdinando Gorges wrote many years after, "the most exact discovery of that coast
that ever came to my hands since," which wrought "such an impression" on Chief-Justice Popham
and the other members of the Plymouth Company that they determined upon another and better-appointed
attempt at once.[11]

May 31, 1607, this second expedition sailed from Plymouth with one hundred and twenty settlers
embarked in two vessels--a fly boat called the Gift of God and a ship called Mary and John.
August 18, 1607, the company landed on a peninsula at the mouth of the Sagadahoc, or Kennebec
River, in Maine. After a sermon by their preacher, Richard Seymour, the commission of government
and ordinances prepared by the authorities at home were read. George Popham was therein designated
president; and Raleigh Gilbert, James Davis, Richard Seymour, Richard Davis, and Captain Harlow
composed the council. The first work attempted was a fort, which they intrenched and fortified
with twelve pieces of ordnance. Inside they erected a church and storehouse and fifteen log-cabins.
Then a ship-builder constructed a pinnace, called the Virginia, which afterwards was used in
the southern colony. But the colonists were soon discouraged, and more than half their number
went back to England in the ships when they returned in December.

The winter of 1607-1608 was terrible to the forty-five men who remained at Kennebec, where
land and water were locked in icy fetters. Their storehouse took fire and was consumed, with
a great part of the provisions, and about the same time President George Popham died. The other
leader, Captain Raleigh Gilbert, grew discouraged when, despite an industrious exploration
of the rivers and harbors, he found no mines of any kind. When Captain James Davis arrived
in the spring, bringing news of the death of Chief-Justice Popham and of Sir John Gilbert,
Raleigh Gilbert's brother, who had left him his estate, both leader and colonists were so disenchanted
of the country that they with one accord resolved upon a return. Wherefore they all embarked,
as we are told, in their newly arrived ship and newly constructed pinnace and set sail for
England. "And this," says Strachey, "was the end of that northerne colony upon the river Sagadahoc."[12]

To the London Company, therefore, though slower in getting their expedition to sea, belongs
the honor of the first permanent English colony in America. December 10, 1606, ten days before
the departure of this colony, the council for Virginia set down in writing regulations deemed
necessary for the expedition. The command of the ships and settlers was given to Captain Christopher
Newport, a famous seaman, who in 1591 had brought into the port of London the treasure-laden
carrack the Madre de Dios, taken by Raleigh's ship the Roe Buck. He was to take charge of the
commissions of the local council, and not to break the seals until they had been upon the coast
of Virginia twenty-four hours. Then the council were to elect their president and assume command
of the settlers; while Captain Newport was to spend two months in discovery and loading his
ships "with all such principal commodities and merchandise there to be had."[13]

With these orders went a paper, perhaps drawn by Hakluyt, giving valuable advice concerning
the selection of the place of settlement, dealings with the natives, and explorations for mines
and the South Sea.[14] In respect to the place of settlement, they were especially advised
to choose a high and dry situation, divested of trees and up some river, a considerable distance
from the mouth. The emigrants numbered one hundred and twenty men--no women. Besides Captain
Newport, the admiral, in the Sarah Constant, of a hundred tons, the leading persons in the
exploration were Bartholomew Gosnold, who commanded the Goodspeed, of forty tons; Captain John
Ratcliffe, who commanded the Discovery, of twenty tons; Edward Maria Wingfield; George Percy,
brother of the earl of Northumberland; John Smith; George Kendall, a cousin of Sir Edwin Sandys;
Gabriel Archer; and Rev. Robert Hunt.

Among these men John Smith was distinguished for a career combining adventure and romance.
Though he was only thirty years of age he had already seen much service and had many hairbreadth
escapes, his most remarkable exploit having been his killing before the town of Regal, in Transylvania,
three Turks, one after another, in single combat.[15] The ships sailed from London December
20, 1606, and Michael Drayton wrote some quaint verses of farewell, of which perhaps one will
suffice:

  "And cheerfully at sea
  Success you still entice,
    To get the pearl and gold,
    And ours to hold
  Virginia,
  Earth's only paradise!"

The destination of the colony was Chesapeake Bay, a large gulf opening by a strait fifteen
miles wide upon the Atlantic at thirty-seven degrees, and reaching northward parallel to the
sea-coast one hundred and eighty-five miles. Into its basin a great many smooth and placid
rivers discharge their contents. Perhaps no bay of the world has such diversified scenery.
Among the rivers which enter the bay from the west, four--the Potomac, Rappahannock, York,
and James--are particularly large and imposing. They divide what is called tide-water Virginia
into long and narrow peninsulas, which are themselves furrowed by deep creeks making numerous
necks or minor peninsulas of land. Up these rivers and creeks the tide ebbs and flows for many
miles. In 1607, before the English arrived, the whole of this tide-water region, except here
and there where the Indians had a cornfield, was covered with primeval forests, so free from
undergrowth that a coach with four horses could be driven through the thickest groups of trees.

The numerous tribes of Indians who inhabited this region belonged to the Algonquin race, and
at the time Captain Newport set sail from England they were members of a confederacy, of which
Powhatan was head war chief or werowance. There were at least thirty-four of these tribes,
and to each Powhatan appointed one of his own friends as chief. Powhatan's capital, or "werowocomoco,"
was on York River at Portan Bay (a corruption for Powhatan), about fourteen miles from Jamestown;
and Pochins, one of his sons, commanded at Point Comfort, while Parahunt, another son, was
werowance at the falls of the James River, one hundred and twenty miles inland. West of the
bay region, beyond the falls of the rivers, were other confederacies of Indians, who carried
on long wars with Powhatan, of whom the most important were the Monacans, or Manakins, and
Massawomekes.[16]

Powhatan's dominions extended from the Roanoke River, in North Carolina, to the head of Chesapeake
Bay, and in all this country his will was despotic. He had an organized system of collecting
tribute from the werowances, and to enforce his orders kept always about him fifty armed savages
"of the tallest in his kingdom." Each tribe had a territory defined by natural bounds, and
they lived on the rivers and creeks in small villages, consisting of huts called wigwams, oval
in shape, and made of bark set upon a framework of saplings. Sometimes these houses were of
great length, accommodating many families at once; and at Uttamussick, in the peninsula formed
by the Pamunkey and Mattapony, were three such structures sixty feet in length, where the Indians
kept the bodies of their dead chiefs under the care of seven priests, or medicine-men.

The religion of these Chesapeake Bay Indians, like that of all the other Indians formerly found
on the coast, consisted in a belief in a great number of devils, who were to be warded off
by powwows and conjurations. Captain Smith gives an account of a conjuration to which he was
subjected at Uttamussick when a captive in December, 1607. At daybreak they kindled a fire
in one of the long houses and by it seated Captain Smith. Soon the chief priest, hideously
painted, bedecked with feathers, and hung with skins of snakes and weasels, came skipping in,
followed by six others similarly arrayed. Rattling gourds and chanting most dismally, they
marched about Captain Smith, the chief priest in the lead and trailing a circle of meal, after
which they marched about him again and put down at intervals little heaps of corn of five or
six grains each. Next they took some little bunches of sticks and put one between every two
heaps of corn. These proceedings, lasting at intervals for three days, were punctuated with
violent gesticulations, grunts, groans, and a great rattling of gourds.[17]

Another custom of the Indians is linked with a romantic incident in Virginia history. Not infrequently
some wretched captive, already bound, to be tortured to death, has owed his life to the interference
of some member of the tribe who announced his or her desire to adopt him as a brother or son.
The motives inducing this interference proceeded sometimes from mere business considerations
and sometimes from pity, superstition, or admiration. It was Captain Smith's fortune during
his captivity to have a personal experience of this nature. After the conjuration at Uttamussick
Smith was brought to Werowocomoco and ushered into a long wigwam, where he found Powhatan sitting
upon a bench and covered with a great robe of raccoon skins, with the tails hanging down like
tassels. On either side of him sat an Indian girl of sixteen or seventeen years, and along
the walls of the room two rows of grim warriors, and back of them two rows of women with faces
and shoulders painted red, hair bedecked with the plumage of birds, and necks strung with chains
of white beads.

At Smith's entrance those present gave a great shout, and presently two stones were brought
before Powhatan, and on these stones Smith's head was laid. Next several warriors with clubs
took their stand near him to beat out his brains, whereupon Powhatan's "dearest daughter,"
Pocahontas, a girl of about twelve years old, rushed forward and entreated her father to spare
the prisoner. When Powhatan refused she threw herself upon Smith, got his head in her arms,
and laid her own upon his. This proved too much for Powhatan. He ordered Smith to be released,
and, telling him that henceforth he would regard him as his son, sent him with guides back
to Jamestown.[18]

The credibility of this story has been attacked on the ground that it does not occur in Smith's
True Relation, a contemporaneous account of the colony, and appears first in his Generall Historie,
published in 1624. But the editor of the True Relation expressly states that the published
account does not include the entire manuscript as it came from Smith. Hence the omission counts
for little, and there is nothing unusual in Smith's experience, which, as Dr. Fiske says, "is
precisely in accord with Indian usage." About 1528 John Ortiz, of Seville, a soldier of Pamfilo
de Narvaez, captured by the Indians on the coast of Florida, was saved from being roasted to
death by the chief's daughter, a case very similar to that of John Smith and Pocahontas. Smith
was often inaccurate and prejudiced in his statements, but that is far from saying that he
deliberately mistook plain objects of sense or concocted a story having no foundation.[19]

Still another incident illustrative of Indian life is given by Smith. In their idle hours the
Indians amused themselves with singing, dancing, and playing upon musical instruments made
of pipes and small gourds, and at the time of another visit to Werowocomoco Smith was witness
to a very charming scene in which Pocahontas was again the leading actor. While the English
were sitting upon a mat near a fire they were startled by loud shouts, and a party of Indian
girls came out of the woods strangely attired. Their bodies were painted, some red, some white,
and some blue. Pocahontas carried a pair of antlers on her head, an otter's skin at her waist
and another on her arm, a quiver of arrows at her back, and a bow and arrow in her hand. Another
of the band carried a sword, another a club, and another a pot-stick, and all were horned as
Pocahontas. Casting themselves in a ring about the fire, they danced and sang for the space
of an hour, and then with a shout departed into the woods as suddenly as they came.[20]

On the momentous voyage to Virginia Captain Newport took the old route by the Canary Islands
and the West Indies, and they were four months on the voyage. In the West Indies Smith and
Wingfield quarrelled, and the latter charged Smith with plotting mutiny, so that he was arrested
and kept in irons till Virginia was reached. After leaving the West Indies bad weather drove
them from their course; but, April 26, 1607, they saw the capes of Virginia, which were forthwith
named Henry and Charles, after the two sons of King James.

Landing at Cape Henry, they set up a cross April 29, and there they had their first experience
with the Indians. The Chesapeakes assaulted them and wounded two men. About that time the seals
were broken, and it was found that Edward Maria Wingfield, who was afterwards elected president
for one year, Bartholomew Gosnold, Christopher Newport, John Smith, John Ratcliffe, John Martin,
and George Kendall were councillors.

For more than two weeks they sought a place of settlement, and they named the promontory at
the entrance of Hampton Roads "Point Comfort," and the broad river which opened beyond after
the king who gave them their charter. At length they decided upon a tract of land in the Paspahegh
country, distant about thirty-two miles from the river's mouth; and though a peninsula they
called it an island, because of the very narrow isthmus (long worn away) connecting it with
the main-land. There they landed May 14, 1607 (May 24 New Style), and at the west end, where
the channel of the river came close to the shore, they constructed a triangular fort with bulwarks
in each corner, mounting from three to five cannon, and within it marked off the beginnings
of a town, which they called Jamestown.[21]

The colonists were at first in high spirits, for the landing occurred in the most beautiful
month of all the year. In reality, disaster was already impending, for their long passage at
sea had much reduced the supplies, and the Paspaheghs bitterly resented their intrusion. Moreover,
the peninsula of Jamestown was not such a place as their instructions contemplated. It was
in a malarious situation, had no springs of fresh water, and was thickly covered with great
trees and tall grass, which afforded protection to Indian enemies.

May 22 Captain Newport went up in a shallop with twenty others to look for a gold-mine at the
falls of James River. He was gone only a week, but before he returned the Indians had assaulted
the fort, and his assistance was necessary in completing the palisades. When Newport departed
for England, June 22, he left one hundred and four settlers in a very unfortunate condition:[22]
they were besieged by Indians; a small ladle of "ill-conditioned" barley-meal was the daily
ration per man; the lodgings of the settlers were log-cabins and holes in the ground, and the
brackish water of the river served them for drink.[23] The six weeks following Newport's departure
were a time of death and despair, and by September 10 of the one hundred and four men only
forty-six remained alive.

Under such circumstances dissensions might have been expected, but they were intensified by
the peculiar government devised by the king. In a short time Gosnold died, and Kendall was
detected in a design to desert the colony and was shot. Then (September 10) Ratcliffe, Smith,
and Martin deposed Wingfield from the government and elected as president John Ratcliffe.

In such times men of strong character take the lead. When the cape merchant Thomas Studley,
whose duty it was to care for the supplies and dispense them, died, his important office was
conferred on Smith. In this capacity Smith showed great abilities as a corn-getter from the
Indians, whom he visited at Kecoughtan (Hampton), Warascoyack, and Chickahominy. At length,
during the fall of 1607, the Indians stopped hostilities, and for a brief interval health and
plenty prevailed.[24]

In December Smith went on an exploring trip up the Chickahominy, but on this occasion his good
luck deserted him--two of his men were killed by the Indians and he himself was captured and
carried from village to village, but he was released through the influence of Pocahontas, and
returned to Jamestown (January 2, 1608) to find more dangers. In his absence Ratcliffe, the
president, admitted Gabriel Archer, Smith's deadly enemy, into the council; and immediately
upon his arrival these two arrested him and tried him under the Levitical law for the loss
of the two men killed by the Indians. He was found guilty and condemned to be hanged the next
day; but in the evening Newport arrived in the John and Francis with the "First Supply" of
men and provisions, and Ratcliffe and Archer were prevented from carrying out their plan.[25]
Newport found only thirty or forty persons surviving at Jamestown, and he brought about seventy
more. Of the six members of the council living at the time of his departure in June, 1607,
two, Gosnold and Kendall, were dead, Smith was under condemnation, and Wingfield was a prisoner.
Now Smith was restored to his seat in council, while Wingfield was released from custody.[26]

Five days after Newport's arrival at Jamestown a fire consumed nearly all the buildings in
the fort.[27] The consequence was that, as the winter was very severe, many died from exposure
while working to restore the town. The settlers suffered also from famine, which Captain Newport
partially relieved by visiting Powhatan in February and returning in March with his "pinnace
well loaden with corne, wheat, beanes, and pease," which kept the colony supplied for some
weeks.[28]

Newport remained in Virginia for more than three months, but things were not improved by his
stay. His instructions required him to return with a cargo, and the poor colonists underwent
the severest sort of labor in cutting down trees and loading the ship with cedar, black walnut,
and clapboard.[29] Captain Martin thought he discovered a gold-mine near Jamestown, and for
a time the council had busied the colonists in digging worthless ore, some of which Newport
carried to England.[30] These works hindered others more important to the plantation, and only
four acres of land was put in corn during the spring.[31] Newport took back with him the councillors
Wingfield and Archer, and April 20, ten days after Newport's departure, Captain Francis Nelson
arrived in the Phoenix with about forty additional settlers. He stayed till June, when, taking
a load of cedar, he returned to England, having among his passengers Captain John Martin, another
of the council.

During the summer Smith spent much time exploring the Chesapeake Bay, Potomac, and Rappahannock
rivers,[32] and in his absence things went badly at Jamestown. The mariners of Newport's and
Nelson's ships had been very wasteful while they stayed in Virginia, and after their departure
the settlers found themselves on a short allowance again. Then the sickly season in 1608 was
like that of 1607, and of ninety-five men living in June, 1608, not over fifty survived in
the fall. The settlers even followed the precedent of the previous year in deposing an unpopular
president, for Ratcliffe, by employing the men in the unnecessary work of a governor's house,
brought about a mutiny in July, which led to the substitution of Matthew Scrivener. At length,
September 10, 1608, Captain Ratcliffe's presidency definitely expired and Captain Smith was
elected president.

[Footnote 1: Purchas, Pilgrimes, IV., 1647-1651; Strachey, Travaile into Virginia, 153-158;
John Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 332-340.]

[Footnote 2: Purchas, Pilgrimes, IV., 1654-1656, 1659-1667.]

[Footnote 3: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 27.]

[Footnote 4: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 46.]

[Footnote 5: Hening, Statutes, I., 57-66; see also Cheyney, European Background of American
History, chap. viii.]

[Footnote 6: Brown, First Republic, 8.]

[Footnote 7: Hening, Statutes, I., 67-75.]

[Footnote 8: Ashley, English Economic History, II., 261-376.]

[Footnote 9: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 50.]

[Footnote 10: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 127-139.]

[Footnote 11: Gorges, Briefe Narration (Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 3d series., VI. 53).]

[Footnote 12: Strachey, Travaile into Virginia, 162-180; Brown, Genesis of the United States,
I., 190-194.]

[Footnote 13: Neill, Virginia Company, 4-8.]

[Footnote 14: Ibid., 8-14.]

[Footnote 15: Purchas, Pilgrimes, II., 1365.]

[Footnote 16: On the American Indians, Farrand, Basis of American History, chaps, vi.-xiv.]

[Footnote 17: For accounts of aboriginal Virginia, see Strachey, Travaile into Virginia; Spelman,
in Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 483-488; Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 47-84.]

[Footnote 18: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 400.]

[Footnote 19: Cases of rescue and adoption are numerous. See the case of Conture, in Parkman,
Jesuits, 223; Fiske, Old Virginia and Her Neighbors, I., 113.]

[Footnote 20: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 436.]

[Footnote 21: Percy, Discourse, in Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), lvii.-lxx.]

[Footnote 22: Percy, Discourse, in Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), lxx.]

[Footnote 23: Breife Declaration, in Virginia State Senate Document, 1874.]

[Footnote 24: Percy, Discourse, in Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), lxxiii.]

[Footnote 25: Wingfield, Discourse, in Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), lxxiv.-xci.]

[Footnote 26: Wingfield, Discourse, in Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), lxxxvi.]

[Footnote 27: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 175.]

[Footnote 28: Wingfield, Discourse, in Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), lxxxvii.]

[Footnote 29: Breife Declaration.]

[Footnote 30: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 104.]

[Footnote 31: Breife Declaration.]

[Footnote 32: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 109-120.]

CHAPTER IV

GLOOM IN VIRGINIA

(1608-1617)

When Newport arrived with the "Second Supply," September 29, 1608, he brought little relief.
His seventy passengers, added to the number that survived the summer, raised the population
at Jamestown to about one hundred and twenty. Among the new-comers were Richard Waldo, Peter
Wynne (both added to the council), Francis West, a brother of Lord Delaware; eight Poles and
Germans, sent over to begin the making of pitch and soap ashes; a gentlewoman, Mrs. Forrest,
and her maid, Anne Burras, who were the first of their sex to settle at Jamestown.

The coronation of Powhatan was a formality borrowed from Sir Walter Raleigh's peerage for Manteo,
and duly took place at Werowocomoco. Powhatan was presented with a basin, ewer, bed, bed-cover,
and a scarlet cloak, but showed great unwillingness to kneel to receive the crown. At last
three of the party, by bearing hard upon his shoulders, got him to stoop a little, and while
he was in that position they clapped it upon his head. Powhatan innocently turned the whole
proceeding into ridicule by taking his old shoes and cloak of raccoon skin and giving them
to Newport.

To seek gold-mines and the South Sea, Newport, taking all the strong and healthy men at the
fort, visited the country of the Monacans beyond the falls of the James. In this march they
discovered the vein of gold that runs through the present counties of Louisa, Goochland, Fluvanna,
and Buckingham; but as the ore was not easily extracted from the quartz they returned to Jamestown
tired and disheartened. The search for Raleigh's lost colony was undertaken with much less
expense--several small parties were sent southward but learned nothing important.

In December, 1608, Newport returned to England, taking with him a cargo of pitch, tar, iron
ore, and other articles provided at great labor by the overworked colonists. Smith availed
himself of the opportunity to send by Newport an account of his summer explorations, a map
of Chesapeake Bay and tributary rivers, and a letter in answer to the complaints signified
to him in the instructions of the home council. Smith's reply was querulous and insubordinate,
and spiteful enough against Ratcliffe, Archer, and Newport, but contained many sound truths.
Ratcliffe returned to England with Newport, after whose departure Smith was assisted for a
short time by a council consisting of Matthew Scrivener, Richard Waldo, and Peter Wynne. The
two former were drowned during January, 1609, and the last died not long after. Smith was left
sole ruler, and, contrary to the intention of the king, he made no attempt to fill the council.[4]

The "Second Supply" had brought provisions, which lasted only two months,[5] and most of Smith's
time during the winter 1608-1609 was occupied in trading for corn with the Indians on York
River. In the spring much useful work was done by the colonists under Smith's directions. They
dug a well for water, which till then had been obtained from the river, erected some twenty
cabins, shingled the church, cleared and planted forty acres of land with Indian-corn, built
a house for the Poles to make glass in, and erected two block-houses.

Smith started to build a fort "for a retreat" on Gray's Creek, opposite to Jamestown (the place
is still called "Smith's Fort"), but a remarkable circumstance, not at all creditable to Smith's
vigilance or circumspection, stopped the work and put the colonists at their wits' end to escape
starvation. On an examination of the casks in which their corn was stored it was found that
the rats had devoured most of the contents, and that the remainder was too rotten to eat.[6]

To avoid starvation, President Smith, like Lane at Roanoke Island, in May, 1609, dispersed
the whole colony in three parties, sending one to live with the savages, another to Point Comfort
to try for fish, and another, the largest party, twenty miles down the river to the oyster-banks,
where at the end of nine weeks the oyster diet caused their skins "to peale off from head to
foote as if they had been flead."[7]

While the colony was in this desperate condition there arrived from England, July 14, 1609,
a small bark, commanded by Samuel Argall, with a supply of bread and wine, enough to last the
colonists one month. He had been sent out by the London Company to try for sturgeon in James
River and to find a shorter route to Virginia. He brought news that the old charter had been
repealed, that a new one abolishing the council in Virginia had been granted, and that Lord
Delaware was coming, at the head of a large supply of men and provisions, as sole and absolute
governor of Virginia.[8]

The calamities in the history of the colony as thus far outlined have been attributed to the
great preponderance of "gentlemen" among these early immigrants; but afterwards when the company
sent over mechanics and laborers the story of misfortune was not much changed. The preceding
narrative shows that other causes, purposely underestimated at the time, had far more to do
with the matter. Imported diseases and a climate singularly fatal to the new-comers, the faction-breeding
charter, the communism of labor, Indian attack, and the unreasonable desire of the company
for immediate profit afford explanations more than sufficient. Despite the presence of some
unworthy characters, these "gentlemen" were largely composed of the "restless, pushing material
of which the pathfinders of the world have ever been made."

The ships returning from the "Second Supply" reached England in January, 1609, and the account
that they brought of the dissensions at Jamestown convinced the officers of the London Company
that the government in Virginia needed correction. It was deemed expedient to admit stockholders
into some share of the government, and something like a "boom" was started. Broadsides were
issued by the managers, pamphlets praising the country were published, and sermons were delivered
by eminent preachers like Rev. William Simonds and Rev. Daniel Price. Zuñiga, the Spanish minister,
was greatly disturbed, and urgently advised his master, Philip III., to give orders to have
"these insolent people in Virginia quickly annihilated." But King Philip was afraid of England,
and contented himself with instructing Zuñiga to keep on the watch; and thus the preparations
of the London Company went on without interruption.[9]

May 23, 1609, a new charter was granted to the company, constituting it a corporation entirely
independent of the North Virginia or Plymouth Company. The stockholders, seven hundred and
sixty-five in number, came from every rank, profession, or trade in England, and even included
the merchant guilds in London.[10] The charter increased the company's bounds to a tract fronting
on the Atlantic Ocean, "from the point of land called Cape, or Point, Comfort all along the
sea-coast to the northward two hundred miles, and from the point of Cape Comfort all along
the sea-coast to the southward two hundred miles," and extending "up into the land, throughout
from sea to sea, west and northwest,"[11] a clause which subsequently caused much dispute.

The governing power was still far from taking a popular form, being centred in a treasurer
and council, vacancies in which the company had the right to fill. For the colonists it meant
nothing more than change of one tyranny for another, since the local government in Virginia
was made the rule of an absolute governor. For this office the council selected one of the
peers of the realm, Thomas West, Lord Delaware, but as he could not go out at once they commissioned
Sir Thomas Gates as first governor of Virginia,[12] arming him with a code of martial law which
fixed the penalty of death for many offences.

All things being in readiness, the "Third Supply" left Falmouth, June 8, 1609, in nine ships,
carrying about six hundred men, women, and children, and in one of the ships called the Sea
Venture sailed the governor, Sir Thomas Gates, and the two officers next in command, Sir George
Somers and Captain Christopher Newport.

When within one hundred and fifty leagues of the West Indies they were caught in the tail of
a hurricane, which scattered the fleet and sank one of the ships. To keep the Sea Venture from
sinking, the men bailed for three days without intermission, standing up to their middle in
water. Through this great danger they were preserved by Somers, who acted as pilot, without
taking food or sleep for three days and nights, and kept the ship steady in the waves till
she stranded, July 29, 1609, on one of the Bermuda Islands, where the company, one hundred
and fifty in number, landed in safety. They found the island a beautiful place, full of wild
hogs, which furnished them an abundance of meat, to which they added turtles, wild fowl, and
various fruits. How to get away was the question, and though they had not a nail they started
promptly to build two small ships, the Patience and Deliverance, out of the cedar which covered
the country-side. May 10, 1610, they were ready to sail with the whole party for Jamestown,
which they reached without accident May 23.[13]

At Jamestown a sad sight met their view. The place looked like "some ancient fortification"
all in ruins; the palisades were down, the gates were off their hinges, and the church and
houses were in a state of utter neglect and desolation. Out of the ruins tottered some sixty
wretches, looking more like ghosts than human beings, and they told a story of suffering having
hardly a parallel.[14]

The energetic Captain Argall, whose arrival at Jamestown has been already noticed, temporarily
relieved the destitution there, first by supplies which he brought from England and afterwards
by sturgeon which he caught in the river.[15] August 11, 1609, four of the storm-tossed ships
of Gates's fleet entered Hampton Roads, and not long after three others joined them. They set
on land at Jamestown about four hundred passengers, many of them ill with the London plague;
and as it was the sickly season in Virginia, and most of their provisions were spoiled by rain
and sea-water, their arrival simply aggravated the situation.

To these troubles, grave enough of themselves, were added dissensions among the chief men.
Ratcliffe, Martin, and Archer returned at this time, and President Smith showed little disposition
to make friends with them or with the new-comers, and insisted upon his authority under the
old commission until Gates could be heard from. In the wrangles that ensued, nearly all the
gentlemen opposed Smith, while the mariners on the ships took his side, and it was finally
decided that Smith should continue in the presidency till September 10, when his term expired.[16]

Thus having temporarily settled their differences, the leaders divided the immigrants into
three parties, retaining one under Smith at Jamestown, and sending another under John Martin
to Nansemond, and a third under Francis West to the falls of the James River. The Indians so
fiercely assailed the two latter companies that both Martin and West soon returned. Smith was
suspected of instigating these attacks, and thus fresh quarrels broke out. About the time of
the expiration of his presidency Smith was injured by an explosion of gunpowder, and in this
condition, exasperated against Martin, Archer, and Ratcliffe of the former council, he would
neither give up the royal commission nor lay down his office; whereupon they deposed him and
elected George Percy president.[17] When the ships departed in October, 1609, Smith took passage
for England, and thus the colony lost its strongest character. Whatever qualifications must
be made in his prejudiced account of the colony, the positions of trust which he enjoyed after
reaching home prove that his merit does not rest solely upon his own opinions.

Under Percy the colony went from bad to worse. Sickness soon incapacitated him, and his advisers,
Martin, Archer, Ratcliffe, and West, were not men of ability. Probably no one could have accomplished
much good under the conditions; and though it became fashionable afterwards in England to abuse
the emigrants as a "lewd company" and "gallants packed thither by their friends to escape worse
destinies at home," the broadsides issued by the company show that the emigrants of the "Third
Supply" were chiefly artisans of all sorts.[18] The Rev. William Croshaw perhaps stated the
case fairly in a sermon which he preached in 1610,[19] when he said that "those who were sent
over at the company's expense were, for aught he could see, like those that were left behind,
even of all sorts, better and worse," and that the gentlemen "who went on their own account"
were "as good as the scoffers at home, and, it may be, many degrees better."

The colonists at first made various efforts to obtain supplies; and at President Percy's command
John Ratcliffe, in October, 1609, established a fort called Algernourne and a fishery at Point
Comfort, and in the winter of 1609-1610[20] went in a pinnace to trade with Powhatan in York
River; but was taken off his guard and slain by the Indians with twenty-seven of his men.[21]
Captain West tried to trade also, but failing in the attempt, sailed off to England.[22] Matters
reached a crisis when the Indians killed and carried off the hogs, drove away the deer, and
laid ambushes all around the fort at Jamestown.[23]

Finally came a period long remembered as the "Starving Time," when corn and even roots from
the swamps failed. The starving settlers killed and ate the dogs and horses and then the mice
and snakes found about the fort. Some turned cannibals, and an Indian who had been slain was
dug out of the ground and devoured. Others crazed with hunger dogged the footsteps of their
comrades; and one man cut his wife into pieces and ate her up, for which barbarous act he was
executed. Even religion failed to afford any consolation, and a man threw his Bible into the
fire and cried out in the market-place, "There is no God in heaven."

Only Daniel Tucker, afterwards governor of Bermuda, seemed able to take any thought. He built
a boat and caught fish in the river, and "this small relief did keep us from killing one another
to eat," says Percy. Out of more than five hundred colonists in Virginia in the summer of 1609
there remained about the latter part of May, 1610, not above sixty persons--men, women, and
children--and even these were so reduced by famine and disease that had help been delayed ten
days longer all would have perished.[24]

The arrival of Sir Thomas Gates relieved the immediate distress, and he asserted order by the
publication of the code of martial law drawn up in England.[25] Then he held a consultation
with Somers, Newport, and Percy, and decided to abandon the settlement. As the provisions brought
from the Bermudas were only sufficient to last the company sixteen days longer, he prepared
to go to Newfoundland, where, as it was the fishing season, he hoped to get further supplies
which might enable them to reach England.[26] Accordingly, he sent the pinnace Virginia to
Fort Algernourne to take on the guard; and then embarked (June 7, 1610) the whole party at
Jamestown in the two cedar vessels built in the Bermudas. Darkness fell upon them at Hog Island,
and the next morning at Mulberry Island they met the Virginia returning up the river, bearing
a letter from Lord Delaware announcing his arrival at Point Comfort, and commanding him to
take his ships and company back to Jamestown; which order Gates obeyed, landing at Jamestown
that very night.[27]

It seems that the reports which reached the council of the company in England in December,
of the disappearance of Sir Thomas Gates and the ill condition of things at Jamestown, threw
such a coldness over the enterprise that they had great difficulty in fitting out the new fleet.
Nevertheless, March 2, 1610, Lord Delaware left Cowes with three ships and one hundred and
fifty emigrants, chiefly soldiers and mechanics, with only enough "knights and gentlemen of
quality" to furnish the necessary leadership.[28]

He arrived at Point Comfort June 6; and, following Gates up the river, reached Jamestown June
10. His first work was to cleanse and restore the settlement, after which he sent Robert Tindall
to Cape Charles to fish, and Argall and Somers to the Bermuda Islands for a supply of hog meat.
Argall missed his way and went north to the fishing banks of Newfoundland, while Somers died
in the Bermudas.

Delaware next proceeded to settle matters with the Indians. The policy of the company had been
to treat them justly, and after the first summer the settlers bought Jamestown Island from
the Paspaheghs for some copper,[29] and during his presidency Captain Smith purchased the territory
at the Falls.[30] For their late proceedings the Indians had incurred the penalties of confiscation,
but Lord Delaware did not like harsh measures and sent to Powhatan to propose peace. His reply
was that ere he would consider any accommodation Lord Delaware must send him a coach and three
horses and consent to confine the English wholly to their island territory.[31] Lord Delaware
at once ordered Gates to attack and drive Powhatan's son Pochins and his Indians from Kecoughtan;
and when this was done he erected two forts at the mouth of Hampton River, called Charles and
Henry, about a musket-shot distance from Fort Algernourne.

No precautions, however, could prevent the diseases incident to the climate, and during the
summer no less than one hundred and fifty persons perished of fever. In the fall Delaware concentrated
the settlers, now reduced to less than two hundred, at Jamestown and Algernourne fort. Wishing
to carry out his instructions, he sent an expedition to the falls of James River to search
for gold-mines; but, like its predecessor, it proved a failure, and many of the men were killed
by the Indians.[32] Delaware himself fell sick, and by the spring was so reduced that he found
it necessary to leave the colony. When he departed, March 28, 1611, the storehouse contained
only enough supplies to last the people three months at short allowance; and probably another
"Starving Time" was prevented only by the arrival of Sir Thomas Dale, May 10, 1611.[33]

From this time till the death of Lord Delaware in 1618 the government was administered by a
succession of deputy governors, Sir Thomas Gates, Sir Thomas Dale, Captain George Yardley,
and Captain Samuel Argall. For five years--1611-1616--of this period the ruling spirit was
Sir Thomas Dale, who had acquired a great reputation in the army of the Netherlands as a disciplinarian.
His policy in Virginia seemed to have been the advancement of the company's profit at the expense
of the settlers, whom he pretended to regard as so abandoned that they needed the extreme of
martial law. In 1611 he restored the settlements at forts Charles and Henry; in 1613 he founded
Bermuda Hundred and Bermuda City (otherwise called Charles Hundred and Charles City, now City
Point), and in 1614 he established a salt factory at Smith Island near Cape Charles.[34]

In laboring at these works the men were treated like galley-slaves and given a diet "that hogs
refused to eat." As a consequence some of them ran away, and Dale set the Indians to catch
them, and when they were brought back he burned several of them at the stake. Some attempted
to go to England in a barge, and for their temerity were shot to death, hanged, or broken on
the wheel. Although for the most part the men in the colony at this time were old soldiers,
mechanics, and workmen, accustomed to labor, we are told that among those who perished through
Dale's cruelty were many young men "of Auncyent Houses and born to estates of £1000 by the
year,"[35] persons doubtless attracted to Virginia by the mere love of adventure, but included
by Dale in the common slavery. Even the strenuous Captain John Smith testified concerning Jeffrey
Abbott, a veteran of the wars in Ireland and the Netherlands, but put to death by Dale for
mutiny, that "he never saw in Virginia a more sufficient soldier, (one) less turbulent, a better
wit, (one) more hardy or industrious, nor any more forward to cut them off that sought to abandon
the country or wrong the colony."[36]

To better purpose Dale's strong hand was felt among the Indians along the James and York rivers,
whom he visited with heavy punishments. The result was that Powhatan's appetite for war speedily
diminished; and when Captain Argall, in April, 1613, by a shrewd trick got possession of Pocahontas,
he offered peace, which was confirmed in April, 1614, by the marriage of Pocahontas to a leading
planter named John Rolfe. The ceremony is believed to have been performed at Jamestown by Rev.
Richard Buck, who came with Gates in 1610, and it was witnessed by several of Powhatan's kindred.[37]

Dale reached out beyond the territory of the London Company, and hearing that the French had
made settlements in North Virginia, he sent Captain Samuel Argall in July, 1613, to remove
them. Argall reached Mount Desert Island, captured the settlement, and carried some of the
French to Jamestown, where as soon as Dale saw them he spoke of "nothing but ropes" and of
gallows and hanging "every one of them." To make the work complete, Argall was sent out on
a second expedition, and this time he reduced the French settlements at Port Royal and St.
Croix River.[38] On his return voyage to Virginia he is said to have stopped at the Hudson
River, where, finding a Dutch trading-post consisting of four houses on Manhattan Island, he
forced the Dutch governor likewise to submit by a "letter sent and recorded" in Virginia. Probably
in one of these voyages the Delaware River was also visited, when the "atturnment of the Indian
kings" was made to the king of England.[39] It appears to have received its present name from
Argall in 1610.[40]

Towards the end of his stay in Virginia, Dale seemed to realize that some change must be made
in the colony, and he accordingly abolished the common store and made every man dependent on
his own labor. But the exactions he imposed upon the settlers in return made it certain that
he did not desire their benefit so much as to save expense to his masters in England. The "Farmers,"
as he called a small number to whom he gave three acres of land to be cultivated in their own
way, had to pay two and a half barrels of corn per acre and give thirty days' public service
in every year; while the "Laborers," constituting the majority of the colony, had to slave
eleven months, and were allowed only one month to raise corn to keep themselves supplied for
a year. The inhabitants of Bermuda Hundred counted themselves more fortunate than the rest
because they were promised their freedom in three years and were given one month in the year
and one day in the week, from May till harvest-time, "to get their sustenance," though of this
small indulgence they were deprived of nearly half by Dale. Yet even this slender appeal to
private interest was accompanied with marked improvement, and in 1614 Ralph Hamor, Jr., Dale's
secretary of state, wrote, "When our people were fed out of the common store and labored jointly
in the manuring of ground and planting corn, ... the most honest of them, in a general business,
would not take so much faithful and true pains in a week as now he will do in a day."[41]

These were really dark days for Virginia, and Gondomar, the Spanish minister, wrote to Philip
III. that "here in London this colony Virginia is in such bad repute that not a human being
can be found to go there in any way whatever."[42] Some spies of King Philip were captured
in Virginia, and Dale was much concerned lest the Spaniards would attack the settlement, but
the Spanish king and his council thought that it would die of its own weakness, and took no
hostile measure.[43] In England the company was so discouraged that many withdrew their subscriptions,
and in 1615 a lottery was tried as a last resort to raise money.[44]

When Dale left Virginia (May, 1616) the people were very glad to get rid of him, and not more
than three hundred and fifty-one persons--men, women, and children--survived altogether.[45]
Within a very short time the cabins which he erected were ready to fall and the palisades could
not keep out hogs. A tract of land called the "company's garden" yielded the company £300 annually,
but this was a meagre return for the enormous suffering and sacrifice of life.[46] Dale took
Pocahontas with him to England, and Lady Delaware presented her at court, and her portrait
engraved by the distinguished artist Simon de Passe was a popular curiosity.[47] While in England
she met Captain John Smith, and when Smith saluted her as a princess Pocahontas insisted on
calling him father and having him call her his child.[48]

It was at this juncture that in the cultivation of tobacco, called "the weed" by King James,
a new hope for Virginia was found. Hamor says that John Rolfe began to plant tobacco in 1612
and his example was soon followed generally. Dale frowned upon the new occupation, and in 1616
commanded that no farmer should plant tobacco until he had put down two acres of his three-acre
farm in corn.[49] After Dale's departure Captain George Yardley, who acted as deputy governor
for a year, was not so exacting. At Jamestown, in the spring of 1617, the market-place and
even the narrow margin of the streets were set with tobacco. It was hard, indeed, to suppress
a plant which brought per pound in the London market sometimes as much as $12 in present money.
Yardley's government lasted one year, and the colony "lived in peace and best plentye that
ever it had till that time."[50]

[Footnote 1: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 114, 130.]

[Footnote 2: Hotten, Emigrants to America, 245; Brown, First Republic, 114.]

[Footnote 3: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 121.]

[Footnote 4: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 23, 125, 442, 449, 460.]

[Footnote 5: Breife Declaration.]

[Footnote 6: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 133-147, 154.]

[Footnote 7: Breife Declaration.]

[Footnote 8: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 159; Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 343.]

[Footnote 9: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 250-321.]

[Footnote 10: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 228.]

[Footnote 11: Hening, Statutes, I., 80-98; Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 206-224.]

[Footnote 12: True and Sincere Declaration, in Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 345.]

[Footnote 13: Purchas, Pilgrimes, IV., 1734-1754; Plain Description of the Barmudas (Force,
Tracts, III., No. iii.); Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 346, 347.]

[Footnote 14: Purchas, Pilgrimes, IV., 1749.]

[Footnote 15: Breife Declaration; Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 404-406.]

[Footnote 16: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 330-332.]

[Footnote 17: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 480-485; Archer's letter, in Brown, Genesis of the
United States, I., 331-332; Ratcliffe's letter, ibid., 334-335; Brown, First Republic, 94-97.]

[Footnote 18: Brown, First Republic, 92.]

[Footnote 19: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 364.]

[Footnote 20: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 497.]

[Footnote 21: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 483-488.]

[Footnote 22: True Declaration (Force, Tracts, III., No. i.).]

[Footnote 23: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 498.]

[Footnote 24: Breife Declaration; Percy, Trewe Relacyon, quoted by Brown, First Republic, 94,
and by Eggleston, Beginners of a Nation, 39; The Tragical Relation, in Neill, Virginia Company,
407-411; True Declaration (Force, Tracts, III., No. i.).]

[Footnote 25: Laws Divine, Morall and Martiall (Force, Tracts, III., No. ii.).]

[Footnote 26: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 401-415.]

[Footnote 27: Ibid., 407.]

[Footnote 28: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 400-415; Purchas, Pilgrimes, IV., 1734-1756;
True Declaration (Force, Tracts, III., No. i.).]

[Footnote 29: True Declaration (Force, Tracts, III., No. i.).]

[Footnote 30: Spelman, in Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 483-488.]

[Footnote 31: Purchas, Pilgrimes, IV., 1756.]

[Footnote 32: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 490.]

[Footnote 33: Breife Declaration.]

[Footnote 34: Hamor, True Discourse, 29-31; Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 501-508.]

[Footnote 35: The Tragical Relation, in Neill, Virginia Company, 407-411.]

[Footnote 36: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 508.]

[Footnote 37: Hamor, True Discourse, 11.]

[Footnote 38: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 709-725.]

[Footnote 39: A Description of the Province of New Albion (1648) (Force, Tracts, II., No. vii.).]

[Footnote 40: Brown, Genesis of the United States, I., 438.]

[Footnote 41: Hamor, True Discourse, 17; Breife Declaration.]

[Footnote 42: Brown, Genesis of the United States, II., 739, 740.]

[Footnote 43: Ibid., 657.]

[Footnote 44: Ibid., 760, 761.]

[Footnote 45: John Rolfe, Relation, in Va. Historical Register, I., 110.]

[Footnote 46: Virginia Company, Proceedings (Va. Hist. Soc., Collections, new series, VII.),
I., 65.]

[Footnote 47: Neill, Virginia Company, 98.]

[Footnote 48: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 533.]

[Footnote 49: Rolfe, Relation, in Va. Historical Register, I., 108.]

[Footnote 50: Breife Declaration.]

CHAPTER V

TRANSITION OF VIRGINIA

(1617-1640)

During the period of Dale's administration the constitution of the London Company underwent
a change, because the stockholders grew restless under the powers of the treasurer and council
and applied for a third charter, limiting all important business to a quarterly meeting of
the whole body.

As they made the inclusion of the Bermuda Islands the ostensible object, the king without difficulty
signed the paper, March 12, 1612; and thus the company at last became a self-governing body.[1]
On the question of governing the colony it soon divided, however, into the court party, in
favor of continuing martial law, at the head of which was Sir Robert Rich, afterwards earl
of Warwick; and the "country," or "patriot party," in favor of ending the system of servitude.
The latter party was led by Sir Thomas Smith, who had been treasurer ever since 1607, Sir Edwin
Sandys, the earl of Southampton, Sir John Danvers, and John and Nicholas Ferrar.[2] Of the
two, the country party was more numerous, and when the joint stock partnership expired, November
30, 1616, they appointed Captain Samuel Argall, a kinsman of Treasurer Smith, to be deputy
governor of Virginia, with instructions to give every settler his own private dividend of fifty
acres and to permit him to visit in England if he chose.[3]

Argall sailed to Virginia about the first part of April, 1617, taking with him Pocahontas's
husband, John Rolfe, as secretary of state. Pocahontas was to go with him, but she sickened
and died, and was buried at Gravesend March 21, 1617. She left one son named Thomas, who afterwards
resided in Virginia, where he has many descendants at this day.[4] Argall, though in a subordinate
capacity he had been very useful to the settlers, proved wholly unscrupulous as deputy governor.
Instead of obeying his instructions he continued the common slavery under one pretence or another,
and even plundered the company of all the servants and livestock belonging to the "common garden."
He censured Yardley for permitting the settlers to grow tobacco, yet brought a commission for
himself to establish a private tobacco plantation, "Argall's Gift," and laid off two other
plantations of the same nature.

In April, 1618, the company, incensed at Argall's conduct, despatched the Lord Governor Delaware
with orders to arrest him and send him to England, but Delaware died on the way over, and Argall
continued his tyrannical government another year. He appropriated the servants on Lord Delaware's
private estates, and when Captain Edward Brewster protested, tried him by martial law and sentenced
him to death; but upon the petitions of the ministers resident in the colony commuted the punishment
to perpetual banishment.[5]

Meanwhile, Sandys, who had a large share in draughting the second and third charters, was associated
with Sir Thomas Smith in preparing a document which has been called the "Magna Charta of America."
November 13, 1618, the company granted to the residents of Virginia the "Great charter or commission
of priviledges, orders, and laws"; and in January, 1619, Sir George Yardley was sent as "governor
and captain-general," with full instructions to put the new government into operation. He had
also orders to arrest Argall, but, warned by Lord Rich, Argall fled from the colony before
Yardley arrived. Argall left within the jurisdiction of the London Company in Virginia, as
the fruit of twelve years' labor and an expenditure of money representing $2,000,000, but four
hundred settlers inhabiting some broken-down settlements. The plantations of the private associations--Southampton
Hundred, Martin Hundred, etc.--were in a flourishing condition, and the settlers upon them
numbered upward of six hundred persons.[6]

Sir George Yardley arrived in Virginia April 19, 1619, and made known the intentions of the
London Company that there was to be an end of martial law and communism. Every settler who
had come at his own charge before the departure of Sir Thomas Dale in April, 1616, was to have
one hundred acres "upon the first division," to be afterwards augmented by another hundred
acres, and as much more for every share of stock (£12 6s.) actually paid by him. Every one
imported by the company within the same period was, after the expiration of his service, to
have one hundred acres; while settlers who came at their own expense, after April, 1616, were
to receive fifty acres apiece. In order to relieve the inhabitants from taxes "as much as may
be," lands were to be laid out for the support of the governor and other officers, to be tilled
by servants sent over for that purpose. Four corporations were to be created, with Kecoughtan,
Jamestown, Charles City, and Henrico as capital cities in each, respectively; and it was announced
that thereafter the people of the colony were to share with the company in the making of laws.[7]

Accordingly, July 30, 1619, the first legislative assembly that ever convened on the American
continent met in the church at Jamestown. It consisted of the governor, six councillors, and
twenty burgesses, two from each of ten plantations. The delegates from Brandon, Captain John
Martin's plantation, were not seated, because of a particular clause in his patent exempting
it from colonial authority. The assembly, after a prayer from Rev. Richard Buck, of Jamestown,
sat six days and did a great deal of work. Petitions were addressed to the company in England
for permission to change "the savage name of Kecoughtan," for workmen to erect a "university
and college," and for granting the girls and boys of all the old planters a share of land each,
"because that in a new plantation it is not known whether man or woman be the more necessary."
Laws were made against idleness, drunkenness, gaming, and other misdemeanors, but the death
penalty was prescribed only in case of such "traitors to the colony" as sold fire-arms to the
Indians. To prevent extravagance in dress parish taxes were "cessed" according to apparel--"if
he be unmarried, according to his own apparel; if he be married, according to his own and his
wife's or either of their apparel." Statutes were also passed for encouraging agriculture and
for settling church discipline according to the rules of the church of England.[8]

Another significant event during this memorable year was the introduction of negro slavery
into Virginia. A Dutch ship arrived at Jamestown in August, 1619, with some negroes, of whom
twenty were sold to the planters.[9]

A third event was the arrival of a ship from England with ninety "young maidens" to be sold
to the settlers for wives, at the cost of their transportation--viz., one hundred and twenty
pounds of tobacco (equivalent to $500 in present currency).[10] Cargoes of this interesting
merchandise continued to arrive for many years.

It was fortunate that with the arrival of Yardley the supervision of Virginia affairs in England
passed into hands most interested in colonial welfare. Sir Thomas Smith had been treasurer
or president of the company for twelve years; but as he was also president of four other companies
some thought that he did not give the proper attention to Virginia matters. For this reason,
and because he was considered responsible for the selection of Argall, the leaders of his party
determined to elect a new treasurer; and a private quarrel between Smith and the head of the
court party, Lord Rich, helped matters to this end. To gratify a temporary spleen against Smith,
Lord Rich consented to vote for Sir Edwin Sandys, and April 28, 1619, he was accordingly elected
treasurer with John Ferrar as his deputy. Smith was greatly piqued, abandoned his old friends,
and soon after began to act with Rich in opposition to Sandys and his group of supporters.[11]

Sandys threw himself into his work with great ardor, and scarcely a month passed that a ship
did not leave England loaded with emigrants and cattle for Virginia. At the end of the year
the company would have elected him again but for the interference of King James, who regarded
him as the head of the party in Parliament opposed to his prerogative. He sent word to "choose
the devil if you will, but not Sir Edwin Sandys." Thereupon Sandys stepped aside and the earl
of Southampton, who agreed with him in all his views, was appointed and kept in office till
the company's dissolution; and for much of this time Nicholas Ferrar, brother of John, acted
as deputy to the earl.[12] The king, however, was no better satisfied, and Count Gondomar,
the Spanish minister, took advantage of the state of things to tell James that he had "better
look to the Virginia courts which were kept at Ferrar's house, where too many of his nobility
and gentry resorted to accompany the popular Lord Southampton and the dangerous Sandys. He
would find in the end these meetings would prove a seminary for a seditious parliament."[13]
These words, it is said, made a deep impression upon the king, always jealous for his prerogatives.

For two years, however, the crown stayed its hand and the affairs of Virginia greatly improved.
Swarms of emigrants went out and many new plantations sprang up in the Accomack Peninsula and
on both sides of the James. The most striking feature of these settlements was the steady growth
of the tobacco trade. In 1619 twenty thousand pounds were exported, and in 1622 sixty thousand
pounds. This increasing importation excited the covetousness of the king, as well as the jealousy
of the Spanish government, whose West India tobacco had hitherto monopolized the London market.
Directly contrary to the provision of the charter which exempted tobacco from any duty except
five per cent., the king in 1619 levied an exaction of one shilling a pound, equal to twenty
per cent. The London Company submitted on condition that the raising of tobacco in England
should be prohibited, which was granted. In 1620 a royal proclamation limited the importation
of tobacco from Virginia and the Bermuda Islands to fifty-five thousand pounds, whereupon the
whole of the Virginia crop for that year was transported to Flushing and sold in Holland. As
this deprived the king of his revenue, the Privy Council issued an order in 1621 compelling
the company to bring all their tobacco into England.[14]

Nevertheless, these disturbances did not interfere with the prosperity of the settlers. Large
fortunes were accumulated in a year or two by scores of planters;[15] and soon in the place
of the old log-cabins arose framed buildings better than many in England. Lands were laid out
for a free school at Charles City (now City Point) and for a university and college at Henrico
(Dutch Gap). Monthly courts were held in every settlement, and there were large crops of corn
and great numbers of cattle, swine, and poultry. A contemporary writer states that "the plenty
of those times, unlike the old days of death and confusion, was such that every man gave free
entertainment to friends and strangers."[16]

This prosperity is marred by a story of heart-rending sickness and suffering. An extraordinary
mortality due to imported epidemics, and diseases of the climate for which in these days we
have found a remedy in quinine, slew the new-comers by hundreds. One thousand people were in
Virginia at Easter, 1619, and to this number three thousand five hundred and seventy more were
added during the next three years,[17] yet only one thousand two hundred and forty were resident
in the colony on Good Friday, March 22, 1622, a day when the horrors of an Indian massacre
reduced the number to eight hundred and ninety-four.[18]

Since 1614, when Pocahontas married John Rolfe, peace with the Indians continued uninterruptedly,
except for a short time in 1617, when there was an outbreak of the Chickahominies, speedily
suppressed by Deputy Governor Yardley. In April, 1618, Powhatan died,[19] and the chief power
was wielded by a brother, Opechancanough, at whose instance the savages, at "the taking up
of Powhatan's bones" in 1621, formed a plot for exterminating the English. Of this danger Yardley
received some information, and he promptly fortified the plantations, but Opechancanough professed
friendship. Under Sir Francis Wyatt for some months everything went on quietly; but about the
middle of March, 1622, a noted Indian chief, called Nemmattanow, or Jack o' the Feather, slew
a white man and was slain in retaliation. Wyatt was alarmed, but Opechancanough assured him
that "he held the peace so firme that the sky should fall ere he dissolved it," so that the
settlers again "fed the Indians at their tables and lodged them in their bedchambers."[20]

Then like lightning from a clear sky fell the massacre upon the unsuspecting settlers. The
blow was terrible to the colonists: the Indians, besides killing many of the inhabitants, burned
many houses and destroyed a great quantity of stock. At first the settlers were panic-stricken,
but rage succeeded fear. They divided into squads, and carried fire and sword into the Indian
villages along the James and the York. In a little while the success of the English was so
complete that they were able to give their time wholly to their crops and to rebuilding their
houses.[21]

To the company the blow was a fatal one, though it did not manifest its results immediately.
So far was the massacre from affecting the confidence of the public in Southampton and his
friends at the head of the company that eight hundred good settlers went to Virginia during
the year 1622, and John Smith wrote, "Had I meanes I might have choice of ten thousand that
would gladly go."[22] But during the summer the members of the company were entangled in a
dispute, of which advantage was taken by their enemies everywhere. At the suggestion of the
crafty earl of Middlesex, the lord high treasurer of England, they were induced to apply to
the king for a monopoly of the sale of tobacco in England; and it was granted on two conditions--viz.,
that they should pay the king £20,000 (supposed to be the value of a third of the total crop
of Virginia tobacco) and import at least forty thousand pounds weight of Spanish tobacco. Though
this last was a condition demanded by the king doubtless to placate the Spanish court, with
whom he was negotiating for the marriage of his son Charles to the infanta, the contract on
the whole was displeasing to Count Gondomar, the Spanish minister. He fomented dissensions
in the company over the details, and Middlesex, the patron of the measure, being a great favorer
of the Spanish match, changed sides upon his own proposition.[23]

In April, 1623, Alderman Robert Johnson, deputy to Sir Thomas Smith during the time of his
government, brought a petition to the king for the appointment of a commission in England to
inquire into the condition of the colony, which he declared was in danger of destruction by
reason of "dissensions among ourselves and the massacre and hostility of the natives." This
petition was followed by a scandalous paper, called The Unmasking of Virginia, presented to
the king by another tool of Count Gondomar, one Captain Nathaniel Butler.[24] The company had
already offended the king, and these new developments afforded him all the excuse that he wanted
for taking extreme measures. He first attempted to cow the company into a "voluntary" surrender
by seizing their books and arresting their leading members. When this did not avail, the Privy
Council, November 3, 1623, appointed a commission to proceed to Virginia and make a report
upon which judicial proceedings might be had. The company fought desperately, and in April,
1624, appealed to Parliament, but King James forbade the Commons to interfere.

In June, 1624, the expected paper from Virginia came to hand, and the cause was argued the
same month at Trinity term on a writ of quo warranto before Chief-Justice James Ley of the
King's Bench. The legal status of the company was unfavorable, for it was in a hopeless tangle,
and the death record in the colony was an appalling fact. When, therefore, the attorney-general,
Coventry, attacked the company for mismanagement, even an impartial tribune might have quashed
the charter. But the case was not permitted to be decided on its merits. The company made a
mistake in pleading, which was taken advantage of by Coventry, and on this ground the patent
was voided the last day of the term (June 16, 1624).[25]

Thus perished the great London Company, which in settling Virginia expended upward of £200,000
(equal to $5,000,000 in present currency) and sent more than fourteen thousand emigrants. It
received back from Virginia but a small part of the money it invested, and of all the emigrants
whom it sent over, and their children, only one thousand two hundred and twenty-seven survived
the charter. The heavy cost of the settlement was not a loss, for it secured to England a fifth
kingdom and planted in the New World the germs of civil liberty. In this service the company
did not escape the troubles incident to the mercenary purpose of a joint-stock partnership,
yet it assumed a national and patriotic character, which entitles it to be considered the greatest
and noblest association ever organized by the English people.[26] However unjust the measures
taken by King James to overthrow the London Company, the incident was fortunate for the inhabitants
of Virginia. The colony had reached a stage of development which needed no longer the supporting
hand of a distant corporation created for profit.

In Virginia, sympathy with the company was so openly manifested that the Governor's council
ordered their clerk, Edward Sharpless, to lose his ears[27] for daring to give King James's
commissioners copies of certain of their papers; and in January, 1624, a protest, called The
Tragical Relation, was addressed to the king by the General Assembly, denouncing the administration
of Sir Thomas Smith and his faction and extolling that of Sandys and Southampton. The sufferings
of the colony under the former were vigorously painted, and they ended by saying, "And rather
(than) to be reduced to live under the like government we desire his ma^tie y^t commissioners
may be sent over w^th authoritie to hang us."

Although Wyatt cordially joined in these protests, and was a most popular governor, the General
Assembly about the same time passed an act[28] in the following words: "The governor shall
not lay any taxes or ympositions upon the colony, their lands or commodities, other way than
by authority of the General Assembly to be levied and ymployed as the said assembly shall appoynt."
By this act Virginia formally asserted the indissoluble connection of taxation and representation.

The next step was to frame a government which would correspond to the new relations of the
colony. June 24, 1624, a few days after the decision of Chief-Justice Ley, the king appointed
a commission of sixteen persons, among whom were Sir Thomas Smith and other opponents of Sandys
and Southampton, to take charge, temporarily, of Virginia affairs; and (July 15) he enlarged
this commission by forty more members. On their advice he issued, August 26, 1624, authority
to Sir Francis Wyatt, governor, and twelve others in Virginia, as councillors to conduct the
government of the colony, under such instructions as they might receive from him or them.

In these orders it is expressly stated that the king's intention was not to disturb the interest
of either planter or adventurer; while their context makes it clear that he proposed to avoid
"the popularness" of the former government and to revive the charter of 1606 with some amendments.
King James died March 27, 1625, and by his death this commission for Virginia affairs expired.[29]

Charles I. had all the arbitrary notions of his father, but fortunately he was under personal
obligations to Sir Edwin Sandys and Nicholas Ferrar, Jr., and for their sake was willing to
be liberal in his dealing with the colonists.[30] Hence, soon after his father's death, he
dismissed the former royal commissioners and intrusted affairs relating to Virginia to a committee
of the Privy Council, who ignored the Smith party and called the Sandys party into consultation.[31]
These last presented a paper in April, 1625, called The Discourse of the Old Company, in which
they reviewed fully the history of the charter and petitioned to be reincorporated. Charles
was not unwilling to grant the request, and in a proclamation dated May 13, 1625, he avowed
that he had come to the same opinion as his father, and intended to have a "royal council in
England and another in Virginia, but not to impeach the interest of any adventurer or planter
in Virginia."

Still ignorant of the death of King James, Governor Sir Francis Wyatt and his council, together
with representatives from the plantations informally called, sent George Yardley to England
with a petition, dated June 15, 1625, that they be permitted the right of a general assembly,
that worthy emigrants be encouraged, and that none of the old faction of Sir Thomas Smith and
Alderman Johnson have a part in the administration; "for rather than endure the government
of these men they were resolved to seek the farthest part of the world."

Yardley reached England in October; and the king, when informed of Wyatt's desire to resign
the government of Virginia on account of his private affairs, issued a commission, dated April
16, 1626, renewing the authority of the council in Virginia and appointing Yardley governor.[32]
The latter returned to Virginia, but died in 1627. After his death the king sent directions
to Acting Governor Francis West to summon a general assembly; and March 26, 1628, after an
interval of four years, the regular law-making body again assembled at Jamestown, an event
second only in importance to the original meeting in 1619.[33]

Other matters besides the form of government pressed upon the attention of the settlers. Tobacco
entered more and more into the life of the colony, and the crop in the year 1628 amounted to
upward of five hundred thousand pounds.[34] King Charles took the ground of Sandys and Southampton,
that the large production was only temporary, and like his father, subjected tobacco in England
to high duties and monopoly. He urged a varied planting and the making of pitch and tar, pipe-staves,
potashes, iron, and bay-salt, and warned the planters against "building their plantation wholly
on smoke." It was observed, however, that Charles was receiving a large sum of money from customs
on tobacco,[35] and it was not likely that his advice would be taken while the price was 3s.
6d. a pound. Indeed, it was chiefly under the stimulus of the culture of tobacco that the population
of the colony rose from eight hundred and ninety-four, after the massacre in 1622, to about
three thousand in 1629.[36]

In March, 1629, Captain West went back to England, and a new commission was issued to Sir John
Harvey as governor.[37] He did not come to the colony till the next year, and in the interval
Dr. John Pott acted as his deputy. At the assembly called by Pott in October, 1629, the growth
of the colony was represented by twenty-three settlements as against eleven ten years before.
As in England, there were two branches of the law-making body, a House of Burgesses, made up
of the representatives of the people, and an upper house consisting of the governor and council.
In the constitution of the popular branch there was no fixed number of delegates, but each
settlement had as many as it chose to pay the expenses of, a custom which prevailed until 1660,
when the number of burgesses was limited to two members for each county and one member for
Jamestown.[38]

In March, 1630, Harvey arrived, and Pott's former dignity as governor did not save him from
a mortifying experience. The council was not only an upper house of legislation, but the supreme
court of the colony, and in July, 1630, Pott was arraigned before this tribunal for stealing
cattle, and declared guilty. Perhaps Harvey realized that injustice was done, for he suspended
the sentence, and on petition to the king the case was re-examined in England by the commissioners
for Virginia, who decided that "condemning Pott of felony was very rigorous if not erroneous."[39]

The year 1630 was the beginning of a general movement of emigration northward, and in October
Chiskiack, an Indian district on the south side of the York, about twenty-seven miles below
the forks of the river where Opechancanough resided, was occupied in force. So rapid was the
course of population that in less than two years this first settlement upon the York was divided
into Chiskiack and York. One year after Chiskiack was settled, Kent Island in Chesapeake Bay
was occupied by a company under William Claiborne, the secretary of state; and in 1632 Middle
Plantation (afterwards Williamsburg) was laid out and defended by a line of palisades from
tide-water to tide-water.[40]

Meanwhile, the old colonial parties did not cease to strive with one another in England. Harvey
had been appointed by the vacillating Charles to please the former court party, but during
the quarrel with his Parliament over the Petition of Right he became anxious again to conciliate
the colonists and the members of the old company; and in May, 1631, he appointed[41] a new
commission, consisting of the earls of Dorset and Danby, Sir John Danvers, Sir Dudley Digges,
John Ferrar, Sir Francis Wyatt, and others, to advise him upon "some course for establishing
the advancement of the plantation of Virginia." This commission had many consultations, and
unanimously resolved to recommend to the king the renewal of the charter of 1612 with all its
former privileges--except the form of government, which was to be exercised by the king through
a council in London and a governor and council in Virginia, both appointed by him.

In June, 1632, Charles I. so vacillated as to grant Maryland, within the bounds of "their ancient
territories," to Lord Baltimore, regardless of the protest of the Virginians; and April 28,
1634, he revoked the liberal commission of 1631, and appointed another, called "the Commission
for Foreign Plantations," composed almost entirely of opponents of the popular course of government,
with William Laud, archbishop of Canterbury, at the head. This commission had power to "make
laws and orders for government of English colonies planted in foreign parts, to remove governors
and require an account of their government, to appoint judges and magistrates, to establish
courts, to amend all charters and patents, and to revoke those surreptitiously and unduly obtained."[42]

Harvey's conduct in Virginia reflected the views of the court party in England. He offended
his council by acting in important matters without their consent, contrary to his instructions;
and showed in many ways that he was a friend of the persons in England who were trying to make
a monopoly of the tobacco trade. He attempted to lay taxes, but the assembly, in February,
1632, re-enacted the law of 1624 asserting their exclusive authority over the subject.[43]
At the head of the opposition to Harvey was William Claiborne, the secretary of state, who
opposed Lord Baltimore's claim to Maryland, and, in consequence, was in the latter part of
1634 turned out of office by Harvey, to make way for Richard Kempe, one of Lord Baltimore's
friends.

The people of Virginia began in resentment to draw together in little groups, and talked of
asking for the removal of the governor; and matters came to a crisis in April, 1635, when Harvey
suppressed a petition addressed to the king by the assembly regarding the tobacco contract,
and justified an attack by Lord Baltimore's men upon a pinnace of Claiborne engaged in the
fur trade from Kent Island. At York, in April, 1635, a meeting of protest was held at the house
of William Warren.

Harvey was enraged at the proceeding and caused the leaders to be arrested. Then he called
a council at Jamestown, and the scenes in the council chamber are interestingly described in
contemporary letters. Harvey demanded the execution of martial law upon the prisoners, and
when the council held back he flew into a passion and attempted to arrest George Menifie, one
of the members, for high-treason. Captain John Utie and Captain Samuel Matthews retorted by
making a similar charge against Harvey, and he was arrested by the council, and confined at
the house of Captain William Brocas. Then the council elected Captain John West, of Chiskiack,
brother of Lord Delaware, as governor, and summoned an assembly to meet at Jamestown in May
following. This body promptly ratified the action of the council, and Harvey was put aboard
a ship and sent off to England in charge of two members of the House of Burgesses.[44]

This deposition of a royal governor was a bold proceeding and mightily surprised King Charles.
He declared it an act of "regal authority," had the two daring burgesses arrested, and on the
complaint of Lord Baltimore, who befriended Harvey, caused West, Utie, Menifie, Matthews, and
others of the unfriendly councillors to appear in England to answer for their crimes. Meanwhile,
to rebuke the dangerous precedent set in Virginia, he thought it necessary to restore Harvey
to his government.[45]

Harvey did not enjoy his second lease of power long, for the king, in the vicissitudes of English
politics, found it wise to turn once more a favorable ear to the friends of the old company,
and in January, 1639, Sir Francis Wyatt, who had governed Virginia so acceptably once before,
was commissioned to succeed Harvey.

[Footnote 32: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, pp. 73, 74, 79.]

[Footnote 33: Ibid., 86, 88; Neill, Virginia Carolorum, 55.]

[Footnote 34: Hening, Statutes, I., 134.]

[Footnote 35: In 1624 the crop was three hundred thousand pounds, the total importations from
Virginia, Bermuda, and Spain four hundred and fifty thousand pounds, and the profit in customs
to the crown was £93,350.]

[Footnote 36: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, p. 89.]

[Footnote 37: Ibid., 88.]

[Footnote 38: Hening, Statutes, I., 147, II., 20.]

[Footnote 39: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, p. 133.]

[Footnote 40: Hening, Statutes, I., 208, 257; Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 4th series, IX., III.]

[Footnote 41: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, p. 130.]

[Footnote 42: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, pp. 136, 177.]

[Footnote 43: Hening, Statutes, I., 171.]

[Footnote 44: Va. Magazine, I., 416, 425, VIII., 299-306; Neill, Virginia Carolorum, 118-120.]

[Footnote 45: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, pp. 216, 217.]

[Footnote 46: Wyatt's commission, in Va. Magazine, XI., 50-54; Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1674,
p. 83.]

CHAPTER VI

SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OF VIRGINIA

(1634-1652)

During the vicissitudes of government in Virginia the colony continued to increase in wealth
and population, and in 1634 eight counties were created;[1] while an official census in April,
1635, showed nearly five thousand people, to which number sixteen hundred were added in 1636.
The new-comers during Harvey's time were principally servants who came to work the tobacco-fields.[2]
Among them were some convicts and shiftless people, but the larger number were persons of respectable
standing, and some had comfortable estates and influential connections in England.[3] Freed
from their service in Virginia, not a few attained positions as justices of the peace and burgesses
in the General Assembly.[4]

The trade of Virginia was become so extensive that Dutch as well as English ships sought the
colony. The principal settlements were on the north side of James River, and as the voyager
in 1634 sailed from Chesapeake Bay he passed first the new fort at Point Comfort lately constructed
by Captain Samuel Matthews. About five miles farther on was Newport News, chiefly remarkable
for its spring, where all the ships stopped to take in water, at this time the residence of
Captain Daniel Gookin, a prominent Puritan, who afterwards removed to Massachusetts. Five miles
above Newport News, at Deep Creek, was Denbeigh, Captain Samuel Matthews's place, a miniature
village rather than plantation, where many servants were employed, hemp and flax woven, hides
tanned, leather made into shoes, cattle and swine raised for the ships outward bound, and a
large dairy and numerous poultry kept.

A few hours' sail from Denbeigh was Littletown, the residence of George Menifie. He had a garden
of two acres on the river-side, which was full of roses of Provence, apple, pear, and cherry
trees, and the various fruits of Holland, with different kinds of sweet-smelling herbs, such
as rosemary, sage, marjoram, and thyme. Growing around the house was an orchard of peach-trees,
which astonished his visitors very much, for they were not to be seen anywhere else on the
coast.[5]

About six miles farther was Jamestown, a village of three hundred inhabitants, built upon two
streets at the upper end of the island. There the governor resided with some of his council,
one of whom, Captain William Pierce, had a garden of three or four acres, from which his wife
a few years before obtained a hundred bushels of figs.[6] The houses there as elsewhere were
of wood, with brick chimneys, but architecture was improving.

In 1637 the General Assembly offered a lot to every person who should build a house at Jamestown
Island; and in pursuance of the encouragement given, "twelve new houses and stores were built
in the town," one of brick by Richard Kempe, "the fairest ever known in this country for substance
and uniformity." About the same time money was raised for a brick church and a brick state-house.[7]
As to the general condition of the colony in 1634, Captain Thomas Young reported that there
was not only a "very great plentie of milk, cheese, and butter, but of corn, which latter almost
every planter in the colony hath."[8]

Such a "plentie of corn" must be contrasted with the scarcity in 1630, for the current of prosperity
did not run altogether smoothly. The mortality still continued frightful, and "during the months
of June, July, and August, the people died like cats and dogs,"[9] a statement especially true
of the servants, of whom hardly one in five survived the first year's hardships in the malarial
tobacco-fields along the creeks and rivers.[10] In 1630 tobacco tumbled from its high price
of 3s. 6d. to 1d. per pound, and the colony was much "perplexed" for want of money to buy corn,
which they had neglected to raise. To relieve the distress, Harvey, the next year, sent several
ships to trade with the Indians up Chesapeake Bay and on the coast as far south as Cape Fear.[11]

Tobacco legislation for the next ten years consisted in regulations vainly intended to prevent
further declines. Tobacco fluctuated in value from one penny to sixpence, and, as it was the
general currency, this uncertainty caused much trouble. Some idea of the general dependency
upon tobacco may be had from a statute in 1640, which, after providing for the destruction
of all the bad tobacco and half the good, estimated the remainder actually placed upon the
market by a population of eight thousand at one million five hundred thousand pounds.[12]

The decline in the price of tobacco had the effect of turning the attention of the planters
to other industries, especially the supply of corn to the large emigration from England to
Massachusetts. In 1631 a ship-load of corn from Virginia was sold at Salem, in Massachusetts,
for ten shillings the bushel.[13] In 1634 at least ten thousand bushels were taken to Massachusetts,
besides "good quantities of beeves, goats, and hogs";[14] and Harvey declared that Virginia
had become "the granary of all his majesty's northern colonies,"[15] Yet from an imported pestilence,
the year 1636 was so replete with misery that Samuel Maverick, of Massachusetts, who visited
the colony, reported that eighteen hundred persons died, and corn sold at twenty shillings
per bushel.[16]

Sir Francis Wyatt arrived in the colony, November, 1639, and immediately called Harvey to account
for his abuse of power. The decree against Panton was repealed, and his estate, which had been
seized, was returned to him, while the property of Harvey was taken to satisfy his numerous
creditors.[17] The agitation for the renewal of the charter still continued, and Wyatt called
a general assembly January, 1640, at which time it was determined to make another effort. George
Sandys was appointed agent of the colony in England, and petitions reached England probably
in the autumn of 1640. The breach between the king and Parliament was then complete, and Charles
had thrown himself entirely into the arms of the court party. Sandys, despairing of success
from the king, appealed to Parliament in the name of the "Adventurers and Planters in Virginia,"
and "the Virginia patent was taken out again under the broad seal of England."[18] To what
extent the new charter established the boundaries of Virginia does not appear, and the subsequent
turn of affairs in Virginia made the action of Parliament at this time a nullity.

To offset these proceedings, the king commissioned[19] Sir William Berkeley, a vehement royalist,
as successor to the popular Wyatt, and he arrived in Virginia in January, 1642, where he at
once called an assembly to undo the work of Sandys. A petition to the king protesting against
the restoration of the company was adopted, but although it was signed by the council and burgesses,
as well as by Berkeley, the preamble alludes to strong differences of opinion.[20] The change
of position was doubtless brought about by the issue made in England between loyalty and rebellion;
and, while desirous of a recharter, the majority of the people of Virginia did not care to
desert the king. The petition was presented July 5, 1642, to Charles at his headquarters at
York, who returned a gracious reply that "he had not the least intention to consent to the
introduction of any company."[21]

While loyal to the king, the people of Virginia had never been wedded to the views of the high-church
party in England. Among the ministers the surplice was not usual, and there was a Puritan severity
about the laws in regard to the Sabbath and attendance at church. As the strife in England
became more pronounced, the people in Nansemond and lower Norfolk counties, on the south of
the James, showed decided leanings towards Parliament and to the congregational form of worship.

Soon they began to think of separating from the church of England altogether, and they sent
for ministers to New England in 1642. In response, the elders there despatched three of their
number, who, arriving in Virginia, set zealously to work to organize the congregations on the
Nansemond and Elizabeth rivers. According to their own account, these ministers met with much
success till they were suddenly stopped in the work by Berkeley, who persuaded the assembly,
in March, 1643, to pass severe laws against Nonconformists; and under this authority drove
them out of the land in 1644.[22]

In the same year occurred an Indian attack which these preachers and John Winthrop, the governor
of Massachusetts, thought to be a special visitation of Providence. After the massacre in 1622
the war with the Indians had continued in a desultory way for over twelve years. Year after
year squads of soldiers were sent in various directions against the different tribes, and by
1634 the Indians were so punished that the whites thought it safe to make peace. Now, after
a repose of ten years, the fierce instincts of the savages for blood were once more excited.

April 18, 1644, was Good Friday, and Governor Berkeley ordered it to be kept as a special fast
day to pray for King Charles; instead, it became a day of bloodshed and mourning.[23] The chief
instigator of the massacre of 1622 was still alive, old Opechancanough, who, by the death of
his brother Opitchapam, was now head chief of the Powhatan Confederacy. Thinking the civil
war in England a favorable occasion to repeat the bloody deeds of twenty-two years before,
on the day before Good Friday he attacked the settlers, and continued the assault for two days,
killing over three hundred whites. The onslaught fell severest on the south side of James River
and on the heads of the other rivers, but chiefly on the York River, where Opechancanough had
his residence.[24]

The massacre of 1622 shook the colony to its foundation, and it is surprising to see how little
that of 1644 affected the current of life in Virginia. Berkeley seemed to think so little of
the attack that after making William Claiborne general of an expedition against the Pamunkey
tribe he left the colony in June, 1645.[25] He was gone a whole year, and on his return found
that Claiborne had driven the Indians far away from the settlements. In 1646 he received information
which enabled him to close the war with dramatic effect. At the head of a body of cavalry he
surprised old Opechancanough in an encampment between the falls of the Appomattox and the James,
and brought him, aged and blind, to Jamestown, where, about three weeks later, one of his guards
shot him to death.[26] A peace was made not long after with Necotowance, his successor, by
which the Indians agreed to retire entirely from the peninsula between the York and James rivers.[27]

One of the most remarkable results of the massacre was the change it produced in Rev. Thomas
Harrison, Berkeley's chaplain at Jamestown, who had used his influence with the governor to
expel the Nonconformist ministers of New England. He came to the belief of John Winthrop that
the massacre was a Providential visitation and turned Puritan himself. After a quarrel with
Berkeley he left Jamestown and took charge of the churches on the Elizabeth and Nansemond rivers
with their Puritan congregations. Berkeley would probably have set the law-officers upon him
at once, but among his councillors was Richard Bennett, himself of Harrison's congregation,
and his influence held the governor back for a time.

Three years passed, and at length Harrison and his elder, William Durand, were peremptorily
directed to leave the colony. Harrison went first to New England and then to old England, while
William Durand emigrated to Maryland, where, aided by Bennett, he made terms with Governor
William Stone for the emigration of his flock; and in the year 1649 more than one thousand
persons left Virginia and settled on the Severn and Patuxent rivers. The settlement was called
Providence, and was destined to play a remarkable part in the history of Maryland.[28]

When the civil war in England was fairly on, emigration to Virginia was much improved in material,
and for many years was very large. The new-comers came to make homes, not merely to make tobacco,
and they no longer consisted of servants, but of the merchants and yeomanry of England. "If
these troublous times hold long amongst us," wrote William Hallam, a salter of Burnham, in
Essex County, England, "we must all faine come to Virginia."[29]

Hitherto the uncertainty resulting from the overthrow of the charter made it difficult to secure
a good class of ministers. Those who came had been "such as wore black coats and could babble
in a pulpet, and roare in a tavern, exact from their parishioners, and rather by their dissolutenesse
destroy than feed their flocks." Now these "wolves in sheep's clothing" were by the assembly
forced to depart the country and a better class of clergymen arrived.[30] In 1649 there were
twenty churches and twenty ministers who taught the doctrines of the church of England and
"lived all in peace and love";[31] and at the head of them was a roan of exemplary piety, Rev.
Philip Mallory, son of Dr. Thomas Mallory, Dean of Chester.[32]

The condition of things about 1648 is thus summed up by Hammond, a contemporary writer: "Then
began the gospel to flourish; civil, honorable, and men of great estates flocked in; famous
buildings went forward; orchards innumerable were planted and preserved; tradesmen set to work
and, encouraged, staple commodities, as silk, flax, potashes attempted on.... So that this
country, which had a mean beginning, many back friends, two ruinous and bloody massacres, hath
by God's grace outgrown all, and is become a place of pleasure and plenty."

Later, after the beheading of King Charles in 1649, there was a large influx of cavaliers,
who, while they raised the quality of society, much increased the sympathy felt in Virginia
for the royal cause. Under their influence Sir William Berkeley denounced the murder of King
Charles I., and the General Assembly adopted an act making it treason to defend the late proceedings
or to doubt the right of his son, Charles II., to succeed to the crown.[33] Parliament was
not long in accepting the challenge which Berkeley tendered. In October, 1650, they adopted
an ordinance prohibiting trade with the rebellious colonies of Virginia, Barbadoes, Antigua,
and Bermuda Islands, and authorizing the Council of State to take measures to reduce them to
terms.[34]

In October, 1651, was passed the first of the navigation acts, which limited the colonial trade
to England, and banished from Virginia the Dutch vessels, which carried abroad most of the
exports. About the same time, having taken measures against Barbadoes, the Council of State
ordered a squadron to be prepared against Virginia. It was placed under the command of Captain
Robert Dennis; and Thomas Stegge, Richard Bennett, and William Claiborne, members of Berkeley's
council, were joined with him in a commission[35] to "use their best endeavors to reduce all
the plantations within the Bay of Chesopiack." Bennett and Claiborne were in Virginia at the
time, and probably did not know of their appointment till the ships arrived in Virginia.

The fleet left England in October, 1651, carrying six hundred men, but on the way Captain Dennis
and Captain Stegge were lost in a storm and the command devolved on Captain Edmund Curtis.[36]
In December they reached the West Indies, where they assisted Sir George Ayscue in the reduction
of Barbadoes. In January, 1652, they reached Virginia, where Curtis showed Claiborne and Bennett
his duplicate instructions. Berkeley, full of fight, called out the militia, twelve hundred
strong, and engaged the assistance of a few Dutch ships then trading in James River contrary
to the recent navigation act.

The commissioners acted with prudence and good sense. They did not proceed at once to Jamestown,
but first issued a proclamation intended to disabuse the people of any idea that they came
to make war.[37] The result was that in March, 1652, when they appeared before the little capital,
the council and burgesses overruled Berkeley, and entered into an agreement with Curtis, Claiborne,
and Bennett, which proves the absence of hard feelings on both sides. The Virginians recognized
the authority of the commonwealth of England, and promised to pass no statute contrary to the
laws of Parliament. On the other hand, the commissioners acknowledged the submission of Virginia,
"as a voluntary act not forced nor constrained by a conquest upon the countrey"; and conceded
her right "to be free from all taxes, customs, and impositions whatever, not enforced by the
General Assembly." In particular it was stipulated that "Virginia should have and enjoy the
antient bounds and lymitts granted by the charters of the former kings."

The articles were signed March 12, 1652, and the commissioners soon after sailed to St. Mary's
and received the surrender of Maryland. They returned in time to be present at a new meeting
of the assembly held at Jamestown in April, at which it was unanimously voted that until the
further pleasure of Parliament was known Richard Bennett should be governor and William Claiborne
secretary of state. To the burgesses, as the representatives of the people, was handed over
the supreme power of thereafter electing all officers of the colony.[38] Then Virginia, the
last of the British dominions to abandon the king, entered upon eight years of almost complete
self-government, under the protection of the commonwealth of England.

In 1652 the settlements in Virginia were embraced in thirteen counties, of which Northampton,
on the Accomack Peninsula, extended to the southern boundary of Maryland. On the James River
were nine counties: Henrico, Charles City, James City, Surry, Warwick, Warascoyack, or Isle
of Wight, Elizabeth City, Nansemond, and Lower Norfolk. On York River were York County on the
south side and Gloucester on the north side.[39] On the Rappahannock was Lancaster County,
extending on both sides of the river from Pianketank to Dividing Creek in the Northern Neck;
and on the Potomac was the county of Northumberland, first settled about 1638 at Chicacoan
and Appomattox on the Potomac, by refugees from Maryland.[40]

Towards the south the plantations, following the watercourses, had spread to the heads of the
creeks and rivers, tributaries of the James, and some persons more adventurous than the rest
had even made explorations in North Carolina.[41] Westward the extension was, of course, greatest
along the line of the James, reaching as far as the Falls where Richmond now stands. The population
was probably about twenty thousand, of whom as many as five thousand were white servants and
five hundred were negroes.

The houses throughout the colony were generally of wood, a story and a half high, and were
roofed with shingles. The chimneys were of brick, and the wealthier people lived in houses
constructed wholly of home-made brick.[42] "They had, besides, good English furniture" and
a "good store of plate." By ordinary labor at making tobacco any person could clear annually
£20 sterling, the equivalent of $500 to-day. The condition of the servants had greatly improved,
and their labor was not so hard nor of such continuance as that of farmers and mechanics in
England. The colony was essentially a democracy, for though the chief offices in the counties
and the colony at large were held by a few families, the people were protected by a popular
House of Burgesses, which till 1736 was practically established on manhood suffrage. In 1655
Captain John Moon left a legacy for a free school in Isle of Wight County; and in 1659 Captain
William Whittington left two thousand pounds of tobacco for a free school in Northampton County.

[Footnote 1: Hening, Statutes, I., 224.]

[Footnote 2: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, pp. 201, 231, 268.]

[Footnote 3: William and Mary Quarterly, IV., 173-176, V., 40.]

[Footnote 4: Virginia's Cure (Force, Tracts, III., No. xv.).]

[Footnote 5: De Vries, Voyages (N.Y. Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, III., 34).]

[Footnote 6: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 887.]

[Footnote 7: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, p. 288. In 1639 Alexander Stonar, brickmaker,
patented land on Jamestown Island "next to the brick-kiln," Tyler, Cradle of the Republic, 46, 99.]

[Footnote 8: Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 4th series, IX., 110.]

[Footnote 15: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, p. 184.]

[Footnote 16: Winthrop, New England, I., 228.]

[Footnote 17: Va. Magazine, V., 123-128.]

[Footnote 18: Virginia and Maryland, or the Lord Baltimore's Printed Case, uncased and answered
(Force, Tracts, II, No. ix.).]

[Footnote 19: Va. Magazine, II., 281-288.]

[Footnote 20: Hening, Statutes, I., 230-235.]

[Footnote 21: Manuscript Collection of Annals relating to Virginia (Force, Tracts, II., No. vi.).]

[Footnote 22: Latané, Early Relations between Maryland and Virginia (Johns Hopkins University
Studies, XIII., Nos. iii. and iv.).]

[Footnote 23: Winthrop, New England, III, 198, 199]. He was born near Kiplin, in Yorkshire,
about 1580, and graduated at Trinity College, Oxford, 1597. After making a tour of Europe he
became the private secretary of Sir Robert Cecil, who rapidly advanced his fortunes. He served
upon several missions to investigate the affairs of Ireland, was knighted in 1617, and in 1619
succeeded Sir Thomas Lake as principal secretary of state.

In this office he began to revolve plans of colonization in America, to which his attention
was directed as a member of the Virginia Company since 1609. In 1620 he bought from Sir William
Vaughan the southeastern peninsula of Newfoundland, known as Ferryland, and the next year sent
some colonists thither. He supported the Spanish match; and when Charles changed his policy
he obtained from the king in 1623 a charter for his province, which he called Avalon. In 1625
he resigned his secretaryship and openly avowed his adherence to the church of Rome; but the
king, as a mark of favor, raised him to the Irish peerage, with the title of Baron of Baltimore,
after a small town of that name in Ireland.[1]

Baltimore returned to his plans of colonization, and in 1627 went to Newfoundland with his
wife and children. But the country proved too cold for him and he determined to "shift" to
a warmer climate. Accordingly, in August, 1629, he wrote to the king for a "grant of a precinct
of land in Virginia," with the same privileges as those which King James gave him in Newfoundland.[2]
Without waiting for a reply he left Avalon, and in October, 1629, arrived in Virginia, where
the governor, Dr. John Pott, and his council received him politely but coldly. Neither his
religion nor his past career as a court favorite, nor the design which he made known of establishing
an independent state within the confines of Virginia, commended him to the people of Jamestown.

Naturally, they wished to get rid of him, and the council tendered him the oaths of allegiance
and supremacy, which, in the various instructions from the king, they were strictly enjoined
to require of all new-comers. The oath of allegiance occasioned no difficulty, but the oath
of supremacy, which required Baltimore to swear that he believed the king to be "the only supreme
governor in his realm in all spiritual or ecclesiastical things or causes," was repugnant to
him as a Catholic, and he declined to take it, but offered to subscribe to a modified form.
This was refused, and after several weeks' sojourn Lord Baltimore sailed away to England to
press his suit in person before the king.[3]

So far as the law of England stood at that time, the effect of the dissolution of the London
Company was to extinguish the debts of the corporation and vest all its property undisposed
of in the crown. On the other hand, there were the repeated official pledges of Charles and
his father not to disturb the interest of either planter or adventurer in any part of the territory
formerly conveyed by the charter of 1609.[4] Nevertheless, the king preferred law to equity,
and October 30, 1629, granted to Sir Robert Heath the province of Carolana in the southern
part of Virginia, between thirty-one and thirty-six degrees.[5] But there was a clause in this
charter excepting any land "actually granted or in possession of any of his majesty's subjects."

About the same time Cottington, the secretary of state, was directed to answer Lord Baltimore's
letter written from Newfoundland and promise him "any part of Virginia not already granted."
Lord Baltimore arrived in London soon after this letter was written, and in December, 1629,
petitioned to be permitted to "choose for his part" a tract south of James River and north
of Carolana. A charter was made out for him in February, 1631, and would have passed the seals
but for the intervention of William Claiborne, one of those Virginia councillors who had offered
the oath to Baltimore.[6]

William Claiborne, the second son of Sir Edward Claiborne, of Westmoreland County, England,
went over to Virginia with Governor Wyatt in 1621 as surveyor-general of the colony. Shortly
afterwards he was made a councillor, and in 1625 secretary of state of the colony. In the Indian
war, which began with the massacre in 1622, he was appointed general, and in 1629 received
lands in the Pamunkey Neck for valuable military service. Active and fearless, he engaged with
great success in the trade for furs in the bay, and was recognized as the foremost man in Virginia.
Sent in May, 1630, by the Virginia council to watch the movements of Lord Baltimore, he co-operated
in England with ex-Governor Francis West, of Virginia, Sir John Wolstenholme, and other gentlemen
who wished the restoration of the London Company.

Aided by these friends, Claiborne defeated the proposed grant, but Baltimore persevered, and,
in April, 1632, received from the crown a patent for a portion of the Virginia territory lying
north of Point Comfort, and having for bounds the ocean, the fortieth parallel of north latitude,
the meridian of the western fountain of the Potomac, the southern bank of the Potomac River,
and a line drawn east from Watkins Point. In the grant the land was described as "hitherto
unsettled and occupied only by barbarians ignorant of God." The king first proposed to call
it Mariana, in honor of his wife, Henrietta Maria, but on Baltimore objecting that it was the
name of a Spanish historian who had written against the doctrine of passive obedience, Charles
modified the appellation, and said, "Let it be called Terra Mariæ--Maryland."[7]

April 15, 1632, George Calvert died, and the charter was made out in the name of his eldest
son, Cecilius, and was signed by the king, June 20, 1632. Cecilius Calvert, named after Sir
Robert Cecil, was born in 1605, and in 1621 entered Trinity College, Oxford University. He
married Anne Arundel, daughter of Lord Thomas Arundel, of Wardour. As Cecilius, unlike his
father, never held public positions in England, his character is best revealed by his conduct
of his province in America, which shows him to have been a man of consummate prudence and tact.

Baltimore's grant called forth a strong remonstrance from members of the Virginia Company and
all the leading planters in Virginia, including Claiborne. The matter was referred by the king
to the Commissioners for Foreign Plantations, who heard the complaint, and July 3, 1633, decided
to "leave Lord Baltimore to his patent" and "the other partie to the course of the law."[8]
This certainly meant a decision against the wholesale claim of Virginia to the ancient limits,
and was deemed by Lord Baltimore as authorizing him to go on with his settlement; and his patent
authorized a form of government entirely different from anything yet tried in America.

The English colonies of Virginia and Massachusetts were founded by joint-stock companies really
or ostensibly for profit. After the suppression of the London Company in 1624, the powers of
government in Virginia devolved upon the king, and the government was called a crown government.
Had Charles been a Spanish or French king he would have appointed an absolute governor who
would have tyrannized over the people. But Charles, as an English king, admitted the colonists
into a share of the government by permitting them to elect one of the branches of the law-making
body. This concession effectually secured the liberties of the people, for the House of Burgesses,
possessing the sole right to originate laws, became in a short time the most influential factor
of the government.

Baltimore's government for Maryland, on the other hand, was to be a palatinate similar to the
bishopric of Durham, in England, which took its origin when border warfare with Scotland prevailed,
and the king found it necessary to invest the bishop, as ruler of the county, with exceptionally
high powers for the protection of the kingdom. Durham was the solitary surviving instance in
England of the county palatinate, so called because the rulers had in their counties jura regalia
as fully as the king had in his palace. In Durham the bishop had the sole power of pardoning
offences, appointing judges and other officers, coining money, and granting titles of honor
and creating courts. In the other counties of England all writs ran in the king's name, but
in Durham they ran in the bishop's. The county had no representation in the House of Commons,
and were it not that the bishop was a member of the House of Lords, an officer of the church,
paid taxes into the national treasury, and had to submit to appeals to the court of exchequer
in London, in cases to which he was a party, he was, to all intents and purposes, a king, and
his county an independent nation.

Baltimore by his charter was made even more independent of the king of England than the bishop,
for neither he nor his province had any taxes to pay into the British treasury, and he held
his territory in free and common socage by the delivery of two Indian arrows yearly at the
palace of Windsor and a promise of the fifth part of all gold and silver mined. In legislation
the bishop had decidedly the advantage, for his power to make law was practically uncontrolled,
while the proprietor of Maryland could only legislate "with the advice, assent, and approbation
of the freemen or the greater part of them or their representatives."[9]

One cardinal feature of Lord Baltimore's colony found no expression either in the government
of Durham or in his own charter. On their liberality in the question of religion the fame of
both George and Cecilius Calvert most securely rests. While neither realized the sacredness
of the principle of religious freedom, there is no doubt that both father and son possessed
a liberality of feeling which placed them ahead of their age. Had policy been solely their
motive, they would never have identified themselves with a persecuted and powerless sect in
England. In the charter of Maryland, Baltimore was given "the patronage and advowsons of all
churches which, with the increasing worship and religion of Christ within the said region,
hereafter shall happen to be built, together with the license and faculty of erecting and founding
churches, chapels, and places of worship in convenient and suitable places within the premises,
and of causing the same to be dedicated and consecrated according to the ecclesiastical laws
of England." This clause was far from establishing religious freedom; but while it permitted
Baltimore to found Anglican churches, it did not compel him to do so or prohibit him from permitting
the foundation of churches of a different stamp.

About the middle of October, 1633, Baltimore's two ships got under way for America--the Ark,
of three hundred tons, and the Dove, of sixty tons. The emigrants consisted of twenty gentlemen
and about three hundred laborers; and, while most of the latter were Protestants, the governor,
Leonard Calvert, brother of Lord Baltimore, was a Catholic, as were Thomas Cornwallis and Gabriel
Harvey, the two councillors associated with him in the government, and the other persons of
influence on board. Among the latter were two Jesuit priests, to one of whom, Father Andrew
White, we owe a charming account of the voyage. Baltimore, in his written instructions to his
brother, manifested his policy of toleration, by directing him to allow no offence to be given
to any Protestant on board, and to cause Roman Catholics to be silent "upon all occasions of
discourse concerning matters of religion."[10]

The expedition did not get away from England without trouble. The attempt to divide the territory
of Virginia was not popular, and Catholics were looked upon as dangerous persons. The effort
of the emigrants to sail without subscribing the necessary oaths caused the ships to be brought
back by Admiral Pennington.[11] It was not until November 22, 1633, that they got off, and
the ships took the old route to Virginia--by way of the West Indies.

February 27, 1634, they reached Point Comfort, where the king's letter addressed to Sir John
Harvey insured them a kind reception. Here they learned that the Indians of the Potomac were
excited over a rumor that they were Spaniards coming to subdue the country. After a stay of
eight or nine days for fresh provisions the emigrants set sail up Chesapeake Bay and soon entered
the Potomac River, "in comparison with which the Thames seemed a rivulet." At its mouth they
saw natives on shore in arms, and at night their watch-fires blazed throughout the country.

March 25 the settlers landed on St. Clement's Island and erected a cross. Then leaving the
Ark with most of the passengers, Governor Calvert, with the Dove, and a pinnace bought at Point
Comfort, explored the river and made friends with the Indians. He found that they all acknowledged
the sovereignty of the "emperor of Piscataqua," who, relieved of his apprehensions, gave them
permission to settle in the country. The final choice of a seating-place was due to Captain
Henry Fleet, a well-known member of the Virginia colony, who guided them up St. George's River,
about nine miles from its juncture with the Potomac; and there, on its north bank, March 27,
1634, Leonard Calvert laid out the city of St. Mary's.[12]

Though we have little record of the early social and economic conditions of the settlers, the
colony appears to have been remarkably free from the sufferings and calamities that befell
the Virginians. This exemption was probably due to the following causes: there was no common
stock, but the property was held in severalty; there was a proper proportion of gentlemen and
laborers, few of one class and many of the other; Virginia was near at hand and provisions
and cattle could be easily secured; and they had immediate use of Indian-cleared fields, because
when they arrived at St. Mary's, the Yaocomocos, harassed by the Susquehannas, were on the
point of removing across the Potomac to Virginia, and were glad to sell what they had ceased
to value. It seems, too, that Maryland was healthier than Virginia.

Hence, the very first year they had an excellent crop of corn, and sent a ship-load to New
England to exchange for salt fish and other provisions.[13] Imitating the example of the Virginians,
they began immediately to plant tobacco, which, as in Virginia, became the currency and leading
product. Its cultivation caused the importation of a great number of servants, "divers of very
good rank and quality,"[14] who, after a service of four or five years, became freemen. In
the assembly of 1638 several of the servants in the first emigration took their seats as burgesses.
As the demand for houses and casks for tobacco was great, a good many carpenters and coopers
came out at their own expense and received shares of land by way of encouragement.

A state of society developed similar in many respects to that in Virginia. Baltimore, accustomed
to the type of life in England, expected the settlements in Maryland to grow into towns and
cities; and, under this impression, in January, 1638, he erected the population on the south
side of St. George's River into a "hundred," and afterwards created other hundreds in other
parts of the colony. But the wealth of watercourses and the cultivation of tobacco caused the
population to scatter, and made society from the first distinctly agricultural and rural. St.
Mary's and St. George's Hundred, in Maryland, shared the fate of Jamestown and Bermuda Hundred,
in Virginia, and no stimulus of legislation could make them grow.

The application of the powers of the palatinate intensified these conditions by creating an
agricultural and landed aristocracy. There was a council like that in Durham, whose members,
appointed by the lord proprietor, held all the great offices of state.

Outside of the council the most important officer was the sheriff, who, like the sheriff of
Durham, executed the commands of the governor and the courts, of which there were (in addition
to the council) the county court and the manorial courts, answering respectively to the court
of quarter-sessions and the courts baron and leet in Durham. As for the manorial courts, feudal
relicts transplanted to America, they sprang from Lord Baltimore's attempt to build up an aristocracy
like that which attended upon the bishop in his palace in Durham. In his "Conditions for Plantations,"
August 8, 1636, after providing liberally for all who brought emigrants to the colony, he directed
that every one thousand acres or greater quantity so given to any adventurer "should be erected
into a manor with a court-baron and court-leet to be from time to time held within every such
manor respectively."

There were many grants of one thousand acres or more, and Maryland "lords of the manor" became
quite common. These "lords" were the official heads of numerous tenants and leaseholders who
were settled on their large estates. Yet the manor, as a free-governing community, was a stronghold
of liberty. At the courts baron and leet the tenants elected the minor officers, tried offences,
and made by-laws for their own government. Later, when negroes substituted white laborers,
these feudal manors changed to plantations worked by slaves instead of free tenants.[15]

Even great office-holders and a landed aristocracy were insufficient to sustain the regal dignity
to which Lord Baltimore aspired. Apparently, his right of initiating legislation and dictating
the make-up of the assembly ought to have been sufficient. But political and social equality
sprang from the very conditions of life in the New World; and despite the veneering of royalty,
Maryland came soon to be a government of the people. The struggle began in the assembly which
met in February, 1635, but not much is known of the proceedings of this assembly beyond the
fact that it assumed the initiative and drew up a code to which Lord Baltimore refused his assent.

Of subsequent assemblies the record is copious enough. Lord Baltimore had the right under his
charter to summon "all the freemen, or the greater part of them, or their representatives,"
and thus for a long time there was a curious jumble of anomalies, which rendered the assembly
peculiarly sensitive to governmental influence. The second assembly met at St. Mary's, January
25, 1638, and consisted of the governor and council, freemen specially summoned, freemen present
of their own volition, and proxies.[16] Governor Calvert submitted a code of laws sent from
Lord Baltimore, and it was rejected by a vote of thirty-seven to fourteen; but twelve of the
minority votes were in two hands, the governor and Secretary Lewger, an illustration of the
danger of the proxy system.

Not long after, in a letter August 21, 1638, the proprietor yielded by authorizing Leonard
in the future to consent to laws enacted by the freemen, which assent should temporarily make
them valid until his own confirmation or rejection should be received. To the next assembly,
held February 25, 1639, Leonard Calvert, instead of summoning all the freemen, issued writs
to different hundreds for the election of representatives.

Among the laws which they enacted was one limiting seats in the assembly to councillors, persons
specially summoned by the proprietor's writ, and burgesses elected by the people of the different
hundreds. This law controlled the make-up of the next four assemblies (October, 1640, August,
1641, March and July, 1642). Nevertheless, in September, 1642, Baltimore reverted to the old
practice.

In 1649 Baltimore made another and last attempt for his initiative. He sent over a learned
and complicated code of sixteen laws which he asked the assembly to adopt; but they rejected
his work and sent him a code of their own, begging him in their letter not to send them any
more such "bodies of laws, which served to little end than to fill our heads with jealousies
and suspicions of that which we verily understand not." The next year, 1650, a constitutional
system was perfected not very different from the plan adopted in the mother-country and Virginia.
Soc., Fund Publications, No. 28), p. 132.]

[Footnote 11: Md. Archives, III., 23.]

[Footnote 12: White, Relation (Force, Tracts, IV., No. xii.); letter of Leonard Calvert, Calvert
Papers (Md. Hist. Soc., Fund Publications, No. 35), pp. 32-35; Baltimore, Relation (London, 1635).]

[Footnote 13: Winthrop, New England, I., 166.]

[Footnote 14: Neill, Founders of Maryland, 80.]

[Footnote 15: Johnson, Old Maryland Manors (Johns Hopkins University Studies, I., No. iii.).]

[Footnote 16: Md. Archives, I., 1-24.]

[Footnote 17: Md. Archives, I., 32, 74, 243, 272.]

CHAPTER VIII

CONTENTIONS IN MARYLAND

(1633-1652)

The delay in the constitutional adjustment of Maryland, while mainly attributable to the proprietors,
was partially due to the prolonged struggle with Virginia, which for years absorbed nearly
all the energies of the infant community. The decision of the Commissioners for Foreign Plantations
in July, 1633, disallowing the Virginia claim to unoccupied lands, was construed by the Virginians
to mean that the king at any rate intended to respect actual possession. Now, prior to the
Maryland charter, colonization in Virginia was stretching northward. In 1630, Chiskiack, on
the York River, was settled; and in August, 1631, Claiborne planted a hundred men on Kent Island,
one hundred and fifty miles from Jamestown.[1]

Though established under a license from the king for trade, Kent Island had all the appearance
of a permanent settlement. Its inhabitants were never at any time as badly off as the settlers
in the early days at Jamestown and Plymouth, and the island itself was stocked with cattle
and had orchards and gardens, fields of tobacco, windmills for grinding corn, and women resident
upon it. Had it, however, been only a trading-post, the extension over it of the laws of Virginia
made the settlement a legal occupation. And we are told of Kent that warrants from Jamestown
were directed there. "One man was brought down and tried in Virginia for felony, and many were
arrested for debt and returned to appeare at James City."[2] In February, 1632, Kent Island
and Chiskiack were represented at Jamestown by a common delegate, Captain Nicholas Martian.[3]
The political existence of the whole Virginia colony, and its right to take up and settle lands,
the king expressly recognized.

Accordingly, when Leonard Calvert, on his arrival at Point Comfort in February, 1634, called
upon Claiborne to recognize Baltimore's paramount sovereignty over Kent Island, because of
its lying within the limits of his charter, the council of Virginia, at the request of Claiborne,
considered the claim, and declared that the colony had as much right to Kent Island as to "any
other part of the country given by his majesty's patent" in 1609.[4] After this, acquiescence
in Baltimore's wishes would have been treason, and Claiborne declined to acknowledge Lord Baltimore's
authority in Kent Island, and continued to trade in the bay as freely as formerly.

Calvert's instructions[5] had been, in case of such a refusal, not to molest Claiborne for
at least a year. But Captain Fleet, Claiborne's rival in the fur trade, started a story that
Claiborne was the originator of the rumor which so greatly alarmed the Indians at the time
of the arrival of the emigrants at St. Mary's. Though Claiborne promptly repelled the calumny,
Baltimore, in September, 1634, sent an order to his brother Leonard to seize Kent Island, arrest
Claiborne, and hold him prisoner.[6] As this mandate was contrary to the order in July, 1633,
of the lords commissioners, which enjoined the parties to preserve "good correspondence one
with another," Claiborne's partners petitioned the king against it.

Thereupon the king, by an order[7] dated October 8, 1634, peremptorily warned Lord Baltimore,
or his agents, "not to interrupt the people of Kent Island in their fur trade or plantation."
Nevertheless, April 5, 1635, Thomas Cornwallis, one of the Maryland councillors, confiscated
a pinnace of Claiborne's for illegal trading, and this act brought on a miniature war in which
several persons on both sides were killed.[8] Great excitement prevailed in both colonies,
and in Virginia the people arrested Harvey, their governor, who upheld Cornwallis's conduct,
and shipped him off to England; while two of the councillors were sent to Maryland to protest
against the violent proceedings affecting Claiborne.[9]

These measures induced a truce, and for nearly three years there were no further hostilities
in the bay. Claiborne brought his case before the king, who referred it to the Lords Commissioners
for Plantations; then, as his partners feared to take further risk, he carried on the trade
in the bay almost solely with his own servants and resources. In December, 1636, these partners,
becoming dissatisfied at their loss of profit, made the capital mistake of sending, as their
agent to Kent Island, George Evelin, who pretended at first to be an ardent supporter of Claiborne,
but presently, under a power of attorney, claimed control over all the partnership stock.

Claiborne, naturally indignant and not suspecting any danger, sailed for England in May, 1637,
to settle accounts with his partners, having just previously established another settlement
on Palmer's Island at the mouth of the Susquehanna River, believed by him to be north of the
Maryland patent. After he was gone, Evelin tried to persuade the inhabitants to disown Claiborne
and submit to Lord Baltimore; and when they declined he urged Governor Calvert to attempt the
reduction of the island by force. After some hesitation the latter consented, and while the
assembly was sitting at St. Mary's, in February, 1638, Calvert made a landing at night with
thirty men, and, taking the inhabitants by surprise, succeeded in reducing the island to submission.[10]

Calvert's after-conduct reflects little credit upon his reputation for leniency. In March,
1638, he caused Claiborne to be attainted by the assembly as a rebel and his property confiscated,
and Thomas Smith, who commanded one of Claiborne's pinnaces in the battles three years before,
was tried and hanged for murder and piracy.[11] In England, in the mean time, Claiborne and
Baltimore were contending zealously for the favor of the king. Both had powerful interests
behind them, but Baltimore's were the stronger. At last the Commissioners for Foreign Plantations
rendered a report (April 4, 1638), giving Kent Island and the right of trade in the bay wholly
to Lord Baltimore, leaving all personal wrongs to be redressed by the courts.

The question of title at least seemed settled, and in October, 1638, Sir John Harvey, now restored
as governor of Virginia, issued a proclamation recognizing the validity of the decision. Claiborne
submitted, and, being left to "the course of the law," empowered George Scovell to recover,
if possible, some of the confiscated property in Maryland; but Scovell was told that the law-courts
of Maryland were closed against such a rebel as Claiborne.[12] The justice of the English decision
depends on the impartiality of the board which made it, and of any board with Bishop Laud at
the head only partisanship could be expected.

While these turbulent proceedings were going on, the Jesuit priests introduced into the colony
by Lord Baltimore were performing a work of peace and love. They visited the Indian tribes
and made many Christian converts. Tayac, chief of the Piscataquas, received baptism, and his
example was followed by the chiefs and inhabitants of Port Tobacco. The main trouble came from
the Nanticokes on the eastern shore, and the fierce Susquehannas to the north of the settlements,
and at different times armed expeditions were sent out against them; but there was nothing
like a war.

For sixteen years the only clergy in the colony were priests, who were so zealous in their
propaganda that nearly all the Protestants who came in 1638 were converted to Catholicism and
many later conversions were made.[13] Nevertheless, the Catholic governor and council acted
up to the spirit of the instructions given by Baltimore to his brother on the sailing of the
first emigrants from the port of London, and would permit no language tending to insult or
breach of peace. Not long after the arrival at St. Mary's a proclamation to this end was issued,
of which only two violations appear in the records; in both cases the offenders were Roman
Catholics, and they were arrested and promptly punished.[14]

Baltimore would not even exempt the Jesuit priests in Maryland from the ordinary laws as to
lands and taxes, and by the "Conditions of Plantations," published in 1648, he prohibited any
society, temporal or spiritual, from taking up land.[15] In 1643 his liberality carried him
so far as to induce him to extend, through Major Edward Gibbons, an invitation to the Puritans
of Massachusetts to emigrate to Maryland, with a full assurance of "free liberty of religion";
but Winthrop grimly writes, "None of our people had temptation that way."[16]

In the year of this invitation the possibility of a new shuffle of the political cards occurred
through the breaking out of the war so long brewing in England between the king and Parliament.
The struggle of party made itself strongly felt in Maryland, where, among the Protestants,
sympathy with Parliament was supplemented by hatred of Catholics. In 1643, Governor Leonard
Calvert repaired to England, where he received letters of marque from the king at Oxford commissioning
him to seize ships belonging to Parliament. Accordingly, when, three months later, in January,
1644, Captain Richard Ingle arrived in his ship at St. Mary's and uttered some blatant words
against the king, he was arrested by Acting Governor Brent, for treason. The charges were dismissed
by the grand jury as unfounded, but Brent treated Ingle harshly, and fined and exiled Thomas
Cornwallis for assisting the captain in escaping.[17]

In September, 1644, when Calvert returned to Maryland, there were strong symptoms of revolt,
which came to a head when Ingle came back to St. Mary's with a commission from Parliament in
February, 1645. Chaotic times ensued, during which Catholics were made victims of the cruel
prejudices of the Protestants. The two Jesuit priests, Father Andrew White and Father Philip
Fisher, were arrested, loaded with irons,[18] and sent prisoners into England, while Leonard
Calvert himself was driven from Maryland into Virginia.[19]

During these tumults so many persons went over from Virginia to Maryland that the Virginia
assembly sent Captain Edward Hill and Captain Thomas Willoughby to compel the return of the
absentees,[20] with curious result. As the province was without a governor, some of the council
of Maryland issued, in the name of the refugee Calvert, a commission to Hill to act as governor
of Maryland. The revolutionists flattered themselves that a stable government under a Protestant
governor was now at hand. But the unexpected came to pass, when, in December, 1646, Governor
Calvert suddenly appeared with a strong body of soldiers furnished by Sir William Berkeley
and re-established his authority by capturing both Hill and the Protestant assembly then sitting
at St. Mary's.

These two years of civil war in Maryland are called the "plundering time." Claiborne again
appears, though there is no evidence that he had any part in Ingle's spoliations.[21] He did
visit Kent Island about Christmas, 1645, and put Captain Brent, to whom Governor Calvert had
assigned his house and property, in a terrible fright. One year later he visited the island
a second time, when he offered to aid the Kent Islanders in marching upon St. Mary's with a
view of reinstating Hill. When the men of Kent declined to take the risk, Claiborne returned
to Virginia, and Kent Island fell once more under the government of Lord Baltimore.[22] On
this visit Claiborne, instead of posing as a friend of the Parliament, showed a commission
and letter from the king, by whom he appears to have stood till the king's death in 1649. Charles
I., in his turn, who deposed Lord Baltimore as a "notorious parliamentarian," appointed Claiborne,
in 1642, treasurer of Virginia;[23] and Charles II. included his name among the list of councillors
in the commission issued by Sir William Berkeley in 1650.[24]

While Maryland was thus convulsed with civil war an ordinance settling the Maryland government
in Protestant hands passed the House of Lords. Before the Commons could concur, Lord Baltimore
appeared and asked for time to inquire into the charges. This was after the battle of Marston
Moor, and perhaps marks the moment when Lord Baltimore, conceiving the king's cause desperate,
began to trim his sails to the parliamentary side. His request was granted, and Parliament,
diverted from immediate action, left Baltimore's authority unaffected for several years.[25]

In this interval Baltimore busied himself in reorganizing his government on a Protestant basis.
Leonard Calvert died in June, 1647, not long after his coup d'état at St. Mary's, and upon
his deathbed he appointed Thomas Greene, a Catholic and royalist, as his successor. Lord Baltimore
removed him and appointed in his stead a Protestant, Captain William Stone, of Northampton
County, Virginia, giving him a Protestant secretary and a Protestant majority of councillors.
Yet Baltimore took care not to surrender the cardinal principle of his government. Before Stone
and his chief officers were allowed to take office they were required to swear not to "molest
any person in the colony professing to believe in Jesus Christ for or in respect of his or
her religion, and in particular no Roman Catholic."[26]

The famous Toleration Act of 1649 was passed at the first assembly succeeding Stone's appointment.
It was very probably in great part a copy of a bill in the code of sixteen laws which Baltimore
sent over at this time, and it very nearly repeated the provisions of the oath required of
Governor Stone. While the terms of the act did not place the right on that broad plane of universal
principle stated later in the Virginia Declaration of Rights, it proclaimed toleration, even
if it was a toleration of a very limited nature.[27]

Stone had recommended himself to Calvert by promising to lead five hundred persons of British
or Irish descent[28] into Maryland; and this engagement he was soon able to perform through
the Puritans, whose story of persecution in Virginia has been already related. The new emigrants
called the country where they settled "Providence," from feelings akin to those which led Roger
Williams to give that comforting name to his settlement on Narragansett Bay. They were to prove
a thorn in Baltimore's flesh, but for the moment they seemed tolerably submissive. In January,
1650, soon after their arrival, Governor Stone called an assembly to meet at St. Mary's in
April, and to this assembly the colony at "Providence" sent two representatives, one of whom
was made speaker.

Apprehension of William Claiborne was still felt, and the assembly, though dominated by the
new-comers, declared their readiness to resist any attempts of his to seize Kent Island.[29]
Only in one particular at this time did they oppose Lord Baltimore's policy. The oath of fidelity
required them to acknowledge Lord Baltimore as "absolute lord" and his jurisdiction as "royal
jurisdiction."[30] The Puritans, having scruples about these words, struck them out and inserted
a proviso that the oath "be not in any wise understood to infringe or prejudice liberty of
conscience."[31] About this time Charles II., although a powerless exile, issued an order deposing
Baltimore from his government and appointing Sir William Davenant as his successor, for the
reason that Baltimore "did visibly adhere to the rebels in England and admit all kinds of schismatics
and sectaries and ill-affected persons into the plantation."[32]

Thus when Parliament soon after took up his case again, Lord Baltimore came full-handed with
proofs of loyalty to the commonwealth. His enemies produced evidence that Charles II., in 1649,
was proclaimed in Maryland, but Baltimore showed that it was done without his authority by
Thomas Greene, who acted as governor a second time during a brief absence of Captain Stone
from Maryland. When they accused him of being an enemy of Protestants he produced the proclamation
of Charles II., deposing him from the government on account of his adherence to them. Finally,
he exhibited a declaration in his behalf signed by many of the Puritan emigrants from Virginia,
among whom were William Durand, their elder, and James Cox and Samuel Puddington, the two burgesses
from Providence in the assembly of 1650.[33]

Nevertheless, Baltimore played a losing game. At heart the Puritans in England were unfriendly
to him because of his religion; and, when persistent rumors reached Maryland that Baltimore's
patent was doomed, some of the men of Providence appeared in England and urged that it be revoked.[34]
At length, October 3, 1650, Parliament passed an ordinance authorizing the Council of State
to reduce to obedience Barbadoes, Antigua, Bermudas, and "Virginia," the last being a term
which in England was often used to include Maryland. Baltimore struggled hard to have Maryland
left out of the instructions drawn up afterwards by the Council of State; but though he was
apparently successful, a descriptive phrase including his province was inserted, for the commissioners,
Curtis, Claiborne, and Bennett, with an armed fleet, were instructed "to use their best endeavors
to reduce all the plantations within the Bay of Chesopiack to their due obedience to the Parliament
of England."[35]

After the commissioners had reduced Virginia, they found even less resistance in Maryland.
The commissioners landed at St. Mary's, and, professing their intention to respect the "just
rights" of Lord Baltimore, demanded that Stone should change the form of the writs from the
name of Lord Baltimore to that of Parliament. Stone at first declined to comply, and the commissioners,
March 29, 1652, put the government into the hands of a council of leading Protestants. Stone
then reconsidered his action, and Claiborne and Bennett, returning to St. Mary's, restored
him to the government, June 28, 1652, in conjunction with the councillors already appointed.
The ascendency of Claiborne seemed complete, but beyond renewing his property claim to Kent
and Palmer islands, he did not then further interfere.[36]

Maryland consisted at this time of four counties: St. Mary's, erected in 1634, Kent, 1642,
and Charles and Anne Arundelin 1650, and contained a population perhaps of eight thousand.
The settlements reached on both sides of the bay, from the Potomac to the Susquehanna. Society
was distinctly democratic, for while there were favored families there was no privileged class,
and the existence of African slavery and the temporary servitude of convicts and redemptioners
tended to place all freemen on an equality. As there was no state church, educational opportunities
in the province were small, but it was a land of plenty and hospitality, and charity in religion
made the execution of the criminal law singularly mild. In spite of turmoils and dissensions,
Maryland prospered and flourished. Its members were lacking in enthusiastic co-operation, and
therefore did not attract, like the London Company, the money and energy of the nation. After
Sir John Popham's death, in 1607, his son Francis Popham was chiefly instrumental in sending
out several vessels, which, though despatched for trade, served to keep up interest in the
northern shores of America.

That coast threatened to be lost to Englishmen, for the French, in 1603, began to make settlements
in Nova Scotia and in Mount Desert Island, near the mouth of the Penobscot, while their ships
sailed southward along the New England shores. The Dutch, too, explored the Hudson (1609) and
prepared the way for a colony there. It was, therefore, a great service to England when Captain
Argall, under the authority of Sir Thomas Dale, in 1613, dislodged the French at Mount Desert,
Port Royal, and St. Croix.

Shortly after Argall's visit John Smith sailed, in 1614, for the northern coast, with two ships
fitted out by some private adventurers. While the ships were taking a freight of fish, Smith,
with a view to colonization, ranged the neighboring coast, collecting furs from the natives,
taking notes of the shores and the islands, and making soundings of the water. Smith drew a
map of the country, and was the first to call it "New England" instead of North Virginia, Norumbega,
or Canada. This map he submitted to Prince Charles, who gave names to some thirty points on
the coast. Only Plymouth, Charles River, and Cape Ann have permanently kept the names thus
fastened upon them. Boston, Hull, Cambridge, and some others were subsequently adopted, but
applied to localities different from those to which Prince Charles affixed them.

While he was absent one day Thomas Hunt, master of one of his vessels, kidnapped twenty-four
savages, and, setting sail, carried them to Spain, where he sold most of them. The outrage
soured the Indians in New England, but of the captives, one, named Squanto or Tisquantum, was
carried to England, and his later friendliness worked to the benefit of subsequent English
colonization.[1]

In 1615 Captain Smith entered into the service of the Plymouth Company and was complimented
with the title of "Admiral of New England." With great difficulty they provided two ships and
despatched them to effect a settlement, but the result was the old story of misfortune. The
ship in which Smith sailed was captured by the French, and Smith himself was detained in captivity
for some time. Captain Dormer, with the other vessel, proceeded on his voyage to New England,
but did not attempt anything beyond securing a cargo of furs.

Smith tried to stir up interest in another expedition, and travelled about England in 1616,
distributing his maps and other writings, but he says "all availed no more than to hew rocks
with oyster-shells." Smith's connection with the American coast then ceased altogether; but
his plans of colonization were not without fruit, since his literary works, making known the
advantages of New England, kept the attention of the public fastened upon that region.[2]

At this time the most prominent member of the Plymouth Company was Sir Ferdinando Gorges, son
of Edward Gorges, of Worcestershire, born about 1566. He served at Sluys in 1587, was knighted
by Essex before Rouen, in October, 1591, and in 1593 was made governor of the port of Plymouth
in England, which office he still held. Despite the ill-fortune attending past efforts, he
continued to send out vessels under color of fishing and trade, which ranged the coast of New
England and brought news of a calamity to the natives unexpectedly favorable to future colonization.
In 1616-1617 the country from Penobscot River to Narragansett Bay was almost left "void of
inhabitants" by a pestilence which swept away entire villages of Indians. This information,
together with the better knowledge due to Gorges of the value of the fisheries, caused a revival
of interest regarding New England among the members of the Plymouth Company.[3]

Under the name of "the Council for New England," they obtained from the king in 1620 a new
charter,[4] granting to them all the territory in North America extending "in breadth from
forty degrees of northerly latitude, from the equinoctial line, to forty-eight degrees of the
said northerly latitude, and in length by all the breadth aforesaid throughout the main-land
from sea to sea." In the new grant the number of grantees was limited to forty, and all other
persons enjoying rights in the company's lands stood in the position of their tenants. Thus,
like the Plymouth Company, the new company proved defective in co-operative power, and the
first actual settlement of New England was due to an influence little fancied by any of its
members.

Religious opinions during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries were great political forces.
The Christian church of Europe, before the days of Luther, held the view that the pope of Rome
was the only infallible interpreter of the Holy Scriptures, and against this doctrine Luther
led a revolt denominated Protestantism, which insisted upon the right of private judgment.
Nevertheless, when the reformed churches came to adopt articles and canons of their own they
generally discarded this fundamental difference, and, affirming infallibility in themselves,
enlisted the civil power in support of their doctrines.

Hence, in 1559, Queen Elizabeth caused her Parliament to pass two famous statutes, the Act
of Supremacy, which required all clergymen and office-holders to renounce the spiritual as
well as temporal jurisdiction of all foreign princes and prelates; and the Act of Uniformity,
which forbade any minister from using any other liturgy or service than that established by
Parliament.[5]

These acts, though directed originally against the Roman Catholics, were resented by many zealous
English clergymen who, during the reign of Queen Mary, had taken refuge in Switzerland and
Germany, and learned while there the spiritual and political doctrines of John Calvin. These
English refugees were the first Puritans, and in the beginning the large majority had no desire
of separating from the church of which the sovereign was the head, but thought to reform it
from within, according to their own views of ecclesiastical policy. They wanted, among other
things, to discard the surplice and Book of Common Prayer and to abolish the order of bishops.
Queen Elizabeth looked upon their opinions as dangerous, and harassed them before the Court
of High Commission, created in 1583 for enforcing the acts of supremacy and uniformity. But
her persecution increased rather than diminished the opposition, and finally there arose a
sect called Independents, who flatly denied the ecclesiastical supremacy of the queen and claimed
the right to set up separate churches of their own. The Scotch Calvinists worked out an elaborate
form of Presbyterian government, by synods and assemblies, which later played a great part
in England.

For a long time the "Separatists," as they were called, were as unpopular with the great body
of Puritans as with the churchmen. Popular aversion was expressed by the derisive name of "Brownists,"
given them from Robert Browne, the first to set forth their doctrines in a formal pamphlet,
entitled The Life and Manners of True Christians. Their meetings were broken up by mobs, and
worshippers were subjected to insults.[6]

Holland at that time was the only country enlightened enough to open its doors to all religions
professing Jesus Christ; and as early as 1593 a Separatist congregation, which had come into
existence at London, took refuge at Amsterdam, and they were followed by many other persons
persecuted under the laws of Queen Elizabeth. When she died, in 1603, there were hopes at first
of a milder policy from King James, but they were speedily dispelled, and at a conference of
Puritans and High Churchmen at Hampton Court in 1604 the king warned dissenters, "I will make
them conform or I will harry them out of this land, or else worse"; and he was as good as his
word.[7]

Several congregations of Separatists were located in the northeastern part of England, in some
towns and villages in Nottinghamshire, Lincolnshire, and Yorkshire. One held meetings, under
Rev. John Smith, a Cambridge graduate, at Gainsborough, and another, under Richard Clifton
as pastor and John Robinson as teacher, at the small village of Scrooby. Persecuted by the
king's officers, these congregations began to consider the advisability of joining their brethren
in Holland. That of Gainsborough was the first to emigrate, and, following the example of the
London church, it settled at Amsterdam.

In the second, or Scrooby, congregation, destined to furnish the "Pilgrim Fathers" of New England,[8]
three men were conspicuous as leaders. The first was John Robinson, a man, according to the
testimony of an opponent, of "excellent parts, and the most learned, polished, and modest spirit"
that ever separated from the church of England. The second was the elder, William Brewster,
like Robinson, educated at Cambridge, who had served as one of the under-secretaries of state
for many years. After the downfall of his patron, Secretary Davison, he accepted the position
of postmaster and went to live at Scrooby in an old manor house of Sir Samuel Sandys, the elder
brother of Sir Edwin Sandys, where, in the great hall, the Separatists held their meetings.[9]
The third character was William Bradford, born at Austerfield, a village neighboring to Scrooby,
and at the time of the flight from England seventeen years of age, afterwards noted for his
ability and loftiness of character.

In 1607 the Scrooby congregation made their first attempt to escape into Holland. A large party
of them hired a ship at Boston, in Lincolnshire, but the captain betrayed them to the officers
of the law, who rifled them of their money and goods and confined them for about a month in
jail. The next year another party made an attempt to leave. The captain, who was a Dutchman,
started to take the men aboard, but after the first boat-load he saw a party of soldiers approaching,
and, "swearing his countries oath Sacramente, and having the wind faire, weighed anchor, hoysted
sayles & away." The little band was thus miserably separated, and men and women suffered many
misfortunes; but in the end, by one means or another, all made good their escape from England
and met together in the city of Amsterdam.

They found there both the church of the London Separatists and that of the Gainsborough people
stirred up over theological questions, which bid fair to tear them to pieces. Hence, Robinson
determined to remove his flock, and in May, 1609, they made the city of Leyden, twenty miles
distant, their permanent abode. Their pastor, Richard Clifton, remained in Amsterdam, and the
care of the congregation in their new home was confided to John Robinson and William Brewster.[10]

In Leyden the Pilgrims were compelled to adapt themselves, as they had in Amsterdam, to conditions
of life very different from those to which they had been trained in their own country. As far
as they can be traced, a majority seem to have found employment in the manufacture of woollen
goods, for which the city was famous. Their uprightness, diligence, and sobriety gave them
a good name and pecuniary credit with their Dutch neighbors, who testified twelve years later
that in all their stay in Holland "we never had any suit or accusation against any of them."[11]

To Robinson, Brewster, and Bradford the change was a decided gain. As the site of a great university,
Leyden furnished them intercourse with learned men and access to valuable libraries. Robinson
was admitted a member of the university, and before long appeared as a disputant on the Calvinist
side in the public discussions. Brewster taught the English language to the Dutch, and, opening
a publishing house, printed many theological books. Bradford devoted himself to the study of
the ancient languages, "to see with his own eyes the ancient oracles of God in all their native
beauty."[12]

Their stay at Leyden covered the period of the famous twelve years' truce between Spain and
Holland, and their number increased from one hundred to three hundred. Among the new-comers
from England were John Carver, Robert Cushman, Miles Standish, and Edward Winslow. Towards
the end of the period the exiles began to think of a second emigration, and this time it was
not persecution that suggested the thought. In expectation of the renewal of hostilities with
Spain, the streets of Leyden sounded with the beating of drums and preparations of war. Although
Holland afforded them religious freedom, they won their subsistence at the price of unremitting
toil, which might be made even harder by renewal of hostilities. A more sentimental reason
was found in the desire to perpetuate their existence as a religious body of Englishmen.

By the summer of 1617 the majority of the Scrooby congregation had fully decided to emigrate,
and it only remained to determine the new place of residence. Some talked of Guiana, others
of New York, but the majority inclined to Virginia; and the conclusion was to emigrate as a
distinct body to a place under the London Company, but not so near Jamestown as to be troubled
by the Episcopalian planters there.

With this design they sent two of their number, John Carver and Robert Cushman, to London,
and Sir Edwin Sandys tried to obtain for them a patent recognizing their religious rights.
To aid him, Robinson and Brewster drew up a confession of faith which, as it contains an admission
of the right of the state to control religion, seems strangely at variance with the doctrines
of the Separatists. But the king was not easily persuaded, and he promised only that "he would
connive at them and not molest them, provided they carried themselves peaceably."[13]

Sandys passed through the London Company two "particular patents" in their behalf, one taken
out in the name of John Wincop and the other in that of John Pierce, two of their associates
in England; under the latter, granted in February, 1620, the Pilgrims prepared to leave Holland.[14]
Capital to the amount of £7000 was furnished by seventy merchant adventurers in London, and
it was agreed with them that for several years everything was to be held in joint stock, the
shares of which were to be valued at £10 each and to be paid for in money or by personal service.[15]

As they had not resources for all to go, the major part of the congregation, with Robinson,
stayed behind, promising to follow later. The emigrants under Carver, Bradford, and Brewster
started out from Delft-Haven in July, 1620, in the leaky ship the Speedwell. At Southampton,
in England, they met the Mayflower with friends from London, and soon after both ships made
an attempt to start to sea. They had not sailed any distance before the Speedwell let in so
much water that it was necessary to put in at Dartmouth for repairs. Again they set sail, and
this time they had left old England one hundred leagues behind when the captain reported the
Speedwell in danger of foundering. There was nothing to do but to bear up again and return
to England, where they put in at Plymouth. Upon examination the Speedwell was pronounced unseaworthy
and sent to London with about twenty of the company. With the rest, one hundred and two in
number, the Mayflower cleared the port, September 6, for America.

Her destination was some point south of the Hudson River, within the Virginia patent; but foul
weather prevented any accurate calculation, and November 9, 1620, the emigrants found themselves
in the neighborhood of Cape Cod. They tacked and sailed southward, but ran into "dangerous
shoals and roaring breakers," which compelled them to turn back and seek shelter in the harbor
now called Provincetown. The anxiety of the sailors to be rid of the emigrants prevented any
further attempt southward, and forced them to make their permanent habitation near this accidental
lodgment.

As the patent under which they sailed had no force in the territory of the Plymouth Company,
they united themselves by the so-called "Mayflower compact," November 11, 1620, into a "civill
body politic," and promised "submission and obedience to all such ordinances as the general
good of the colony might require from time to time." Under the patent John Carver had been
chosen governor, and he was now confirmed in that office under the new authority, which followed
pretty nearly the terms of the old.[16]

For five weeks they stayed in the ship, while Captain Miles Standish with a small company explored
the country. In the third expedition, after an attack from the Indians and much suffering from
snow and sleet, Standish's men reached a landing nearly opposite to the point of Cape Cod,
which they sounded and "found fit for shipping." There "divers cornfields" and an excellent
stream of fresh water encouraged settlement, and they landed, December 11 (Old Style), 1620,
near a large bowlder, since known as Plymouth Rock.

By the end of the week the Mayflower had brought over her company of emigrants--seventy-three
males and twenty-nine females--and December 25, 1620, they began to erect the first house "for
the common use to receive them and their goods." The Indian name of the place was Patuxet,
but the emigrants called it New Plymouth "after Plymouth, in old England, the last town they
left in their native country";[17] and it was a curious coincidence that the spot had already
received from John Smith the name of Plymouth. Later the town was called simply Plymouth, while
the colony took the name of New Plymouth.

[Footnote 1: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 699; Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 117.]

[Footnote 2: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 699-701, 731-742, 745.]

[Footnote 3: Gorges, Description of New England (Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 3d series,
VI.), 57.]

[Footnote 4: Poore, Charters and Constitutions, I., 921. ]

[Footnote 5: Cf. Cheyney, European Background of Am. Hist., chap. xi.]

[Footnote 6: Neal, Puritans, I., 149-151, 202; cf. Cheyney, European Background of Am. Hist.,
chap. xii.]

[Footnote 7: Neal, Puritans, I., 232; Hart, Source-Book, No. 15.]

[Footnote 8: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 13.]

[Footnote 9: Hunter, Founders of New Plymouth.]

[Footnote 10: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 15-29.]

[Footnote 11: Ibid., 27.]

[Footnote 12: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 28, 488-493; Mather, Magnolia, I., 113.]

[Footnote 13: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 29-38.]

[Footnote 14: Brown, First Republic, 424.]

[Footnote 15: Smith, Works (Arber's ed.), 783; Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 56-58.]

[Footnote 16: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 90-110; Eggleston, Beginners of a Nation, 184, note 4.]

[Footnote 17: Morton, New England's Memorial, 56.]

CHAPTER X

DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PLYMOUTH

(1621-1643)

During the winter of 1620-1621 the emigrants suffered greatly from scurvy and exposure. More
than half the company perished, and the seamen on the Mayflower suffered as much.[1] With the
appearance of spring the mortality ceased, and a friendly intercourse with the natives began.
These Indians were the Pokanokets, whose number had been very much thinned by the pestilence.
After the first hostilities directed against the exploring parties they avoided the whites,
and held a meeting in a dark and dismal swamp, where the medicine-men for three days together
tried vainly to subject the new-comers to the spell of their conjurations.

At last, in March, 1621, an Indian came boldly into camp, and, in broken English, bade the
strangers "welcome." It was found that his name was Samoset, and that he came from Monhegan,
an island distant about a day's sail towards the east, where he had picked up a few English
words from the fishermen who frequented that region. In a short time he returned, bringing
Squanto, or Tisquantum, stolen by Hunt seven years before, and restored to his country in 1620
by Sir Ferdinando Gorges. Squanto, who could speak English, stated that Massasoit was near
at hand, and on invitation that chief appeared, and soon a treaty of peace and friendship was
concluded; after which Massasoit returned to his town of Sowams, forty miles distant, while
Squanto continued with the colonists and made himself useful in many ways.[2]

In the beginning of April, 1621, the Mayflower went back to England, and the colonists planted
corn in the fields once tilled by Indians whom the pestilence had destroyed. While engaged
in this work the governor, John Carver, died, and his place was supplied by William Bradford,
with Isaac Allerton as assistant or councilman. During the summer the settlers were very busy.
They fitted up their cabins, amassed a good supply of beaver, and harvested a fair crop of
corn. In the fall a ship arrived, bringing thirty-five new settlers poorly provided. It also
brought a patent, dated June 1, 1621, from the Council for New England, made out to John Pierce,
by whom the original patent from the London Company had been obtained. The patent did not define
the territorial limits, but allowed one hundred acres for every emigrant and fifteen hundred
acres for public buildings, in the same proportion of one hundred acres to every workman.[3]

The ship tarried only fourteen days, and returned with a large cargo of clapboard and beaver
skins of the value of £500, which was, however, captured on the way to England by a French
cruiser. After the departure the governor distributed the new-comers among the different families,
and because of the necessity of sharing with them, put everybody on half allowance. The prospect
for the winter was not hopeful, for to the danger from starvation was added danger from the
Indians.

West of the Pokanokets were the Narragansetts, a tribe of two thousand warriors, whose chief,
Canonicus, sent to Plymouth in January, 1622, a bundle of arrows tied with a snake's skin,
signifying a challenge of war. Bradford knew that it was fatal to hesitate or show fear, and
he promptly stuffed the snake's skin with bullets and returned it to the sender with some threatening
words. This answer alarmed Canonicus, who thought that the snake's skin must be conjured, and
he did not pursue the matter further. But the colonists took warning, and the whole settlement
was enclosed with a paling, and strict military watch was maintained. Thus the winter passed
and the spring came, but without the hoped-for assistance from the merchant partners in England.[4]

On the contrary, the arrival in May, 1622, "without a bite of bread," of sixty-seven other
persons, sent out on his own account under a grant from the Council for New England, by Thomas
Weston, one of the partners, plunged them into dire distress, from which they were happily
saved by a ship-captain, John Huddleston, from the colony on James River, who shared his supplies
with them, and thus enabled them to "make shift till corn was ripe again." Weston's emigrants
were a loose set, and before they left in August they stole most of the green corn, and thus
Plymouth was threatened with another famine. Fortunately, about this time another ship from
Virginia, bearing the secretary of state, John Pory, arrived, and sold the colonists a supply
of truck for trading; by which they bought from the Indians not only corn, but beaver, which
proved afterwards a source of much profit.

Weston's people removed to Wessagusset (modern Weymouth), on Massachusetts Bay, where they
conducted themselves in so reckless a manner that they ran the double risk of starvation and
destruction from savages. To save them, Bradford, in March, 1623, despatched a company under
Captain Miles Standish, who brought them corn and killed several of the Indians. Then Standish
helped Weston's "rude fellows" aboard ship and saw them safely off to sea. Shortly after Weston
came over to look after his emigrants, fell into the hands of the Indians, escaped to Plymouth,
where the colonists helped him away, and returned in October, 1623, to create more disturbance.

Weston was not the only one of the partners that gave the colonists trouble. John Pierce took
advantage of the prominence given him by the patent issued in his name for the benefit of all,
to get a new one which made him sole actual owner of the territory. His partners resented this
injustice, and the Council for New England, in March, 1623, was induced to revoke the grant
to Pierce.[5]

About this time Bradford made a great change in the industrial system of the colony. At Plymouth,
as at Jamestown, communism was found to breed "confusion and discontent," and he tried the
experiment of assigning to every family, in proportion to its size, a tract of land. In July,
1623, arrived sixty other settlers, and the old planters feared another period of starvation.
Nevertheless, when harvest-time arrived, the wisdom of Bradford's appeal to private interest
was demonstrated, for instead of misery and scarcity there was joyfulness, and "plentie of
corn." Later experience was equally convincing, for, as Bradford wrote many years after, "any
general wante or famine hath not been known amongst them since to this day."

While the Pilgrim fathers were overcoming their difficulties in Massachusetts, the Council
for New England were struggling with the London Company to maintain the monopoly of fishing
and fur trading on the North Atlantic coast granted to them by their charter. The London Company
complained to the king in 1620 and to Parliament in 1621, but the king refused any relief,
and prevented Parliament from interfering by dissolving it.[6] Thereupon, the Council for New
England, appreciating the danger, made a grand effort to accomplish something in America. As
a preliminary step they induced the king to publish a proclamation, November 6, 1622, against
all unlicensed trading and other infringements upon the rights granted them,[7] and shortly
afterwards sent out Francis West as admiral to reduce the fishermen on the coast to obedience.
West came to America, but found them "stuberne fellows,"[8] and he returned in about a year
to England without effecting anything.

During his absence the Council for New England set to work to send out a colony under Robert
Gorges, son of Sir Ferdinando; and, June 29, 1623, a division was made among twenty patentees,
of the North Atlantic coast from the Bay of Fundy to Narragansett Bay.[9] In September, 1623,
Gorges arrived at Plymouth attended by an Episcopal minister, William Morell, and a company
of settlers, whom he planted at Wessagusset. He remained in New England throughout the winter,
and in the effort to exert his authority had a long wrangle with Weston. In the spring of 1624
he received news from his father that discouraged his further stay. It seems that in March,
1624, a committee of Parliament, at the head of which was Sir Edward Coke, had reported the
charter of the Council for New England as a national grievance, which so discouraged the patentees
that most of them abandoned the enterprise, and it became, in the language of the elder Gorges,
"a carcass in a manner breathless."[10] After Robert Gorges' departure most of his party dispersed,
some going to England and some to Virginia, but a few remained at Wessagusset, which was never
entirely abandoned.

The relations between the colony and the London merchant adventurers, never very pleasant,
became more unsatisfactory as time went on. The colonists naturally wanted to bring over their
friends at Leyden, but the partners regarded Robinson as the great leader of the Independents,
and London was already rife with rumors of the heretical character of the rulers at Plymouth.
It seemed to the partners evidently for their interest to introduce settlers of a different
religious opinion from Bradford and Brewster, and to this was largely due the fact that the
emigrants who came over after the Mayflower's return in 1621 had little in common with the
original band of Pilgrims.

In January, 1624, arrived another miscellaneous cargo, including a minister named John Lyford.
Upon his arrival he professed intense sympathy with the settlers, and when they received him
as a member of their church he renounced, pursuant to the extreme tenets of Separatism, "all
universall, nationall, and diocessan churches."[11] Nevertheless, he joined with John Oldham,
who came the year before, in a conspiracy to overturn the government; but was detected and
finally banished from the colony. In March, 1625, Lyford and Oldham went to Wessagusset, from
which they moved with Roger Conant and other friends to Nantasket, where, in the mean time,
a new settlement had sprung up.

In the division of 1623, the region around Cape Ann fell to Lord Sheffield, and the same year
he conveyed the country to Robert Cushman and Edward Winslow in behalf of the colonists at
Plymouth.[12] The next year the new owners sent a party to establish a fishing stage at Cape
Ann, but they found other persons on the spot, for in 1623 some merchants of Dorchester, England,
who regularly sent vessels to catch fish in the waters of New England, had conceived the idea
of planting a colony on the coast, and in the summer of that year landed fourteen men at Cape
Ann, soon increased to thirty-four.

For some months the two parties got along amicably together and fished side by side. An element
of discord was introduced in 1625 when the Dorchester men invited Roger Conant and Rev. Mr.
Lyford from Nantasket, and made the former manager and the latter minister of their settlement;
while John Oldham was asked to become their agent to trade with the Indians. A short time after,
the crew of a vessel belonging to the Dorchester adventurers, instigated, it is said, by Lyford,
took from the Plymouth men their fishing stage; whereupon Miles Standish came with soldiers
from Plymouth, and the rival parties would have come to blows had not Conant interfered and
settled the matter.[13] The Plymouth settlers built a new stage, but, as the war with Spain
affected the sale of fish, they soon abandoned the enterprise altogether. The Dorchester men
had no better fortune, and the discouraged merchants at home, in 1626, broke up their colony
and sold their shipping and most of their other property.[14] Lyford went to Virginia, where
he soon died, and all the other settlers, except Conant and three others, returned to England.

The colony at Plymouth, in the mean time, was signally prospering, and soon felt strong enough
to dissolve the troublesome relations with the merchant partners, who had fallen into dissensions
among themselves. For this purpose the colonists made, in 1627, an agreement by which for £1800,
to be paid in nine annual instalments of £200 each, the colonists were relieved from all vassalage
under their original contract.[15]

Custodians of their own fortunes, they now established trading-posts at several places on the
coast--at Manomet, on Buzzard's Bay (1627), at Kennebec (1628), and at Penobscot and Machias
Bay (1629). In addition they made arrangements for reunion with their friends in Holland, one
party of whom arrived in 1629 and another in 1630, though Robinson, the Moses of the Pilgrims,
was never permitted to join them, having died March 1, 1626,[16] in Leyden.

They tried also to obtain a charter from the king, but they never could get anything better
than a fresh patent from the Council for New England. This patent,[17] dated January 13, 1630,
empowered Bradford and his associates "to incorporate by some usual and fit name and title
him and themselves, or the people there inhabiting under him or them, with liberty to them
and their successors from time to time to frame and make orders, ordinances, and constitutions"
not contrary to the laws of England or to any government established by the council.

The patent had the merit of defining the extent of territory belonging to the Plymouth settlers,
and granted "all that part of New England in America aforesaid and Tracte and Tractes of Land
that lye within or betweene a certaine Reuolett or Runlett there commonly called Coahassett
alias Conahassett towards the North and the Riuer commonly called Narragansett Riuer towards
the South and the great Westerne Ocean towards the East, and betweene, and within a Streight
Line directly Extending up Into the Maine Land towards the west from the mouth of the said
Riuer called Narragansett Riuer to the utmost bounds of a Country or place in New England Commonly
called Pokenacutt als Sowamsett, westward, and another like Streight line Extending it Self
Directly from the mouth of the said Riuer called Coahassett als Conahassett towards the West
so farr up into the Main Land Westwards as the Vtmost Limitts of the said place or Country
Commonly called Pokenacutt als Sowamsett Do Extend togeather with one half of the s^d Riuer
called Narragansett and the s^d Reuolett or Runlett called Coahassett als Conahassett and all
Lands Riuers waters hauens Ports Creeks ffihings fowlings and all hereditaments Proffitts Commodityes
and Imoluments Whatsoeuer Scituate Lyeing and being or ariseing within or betweene the said
Limitts or bounds or any of them." For trading purposes the patent also gave them a tract extending
fifteen miles in breadth on each bank of the Kennebec.

Among the "scattered beginnings" in the neighborhood of Plymouth, the most interesting, because
the most contrasted with the Puritan colony at Plymouth, was Captain Wollaston's settlement,
established in 1625 a little north of Wessagusset. His men were, for the most part, servants,
and Wollaston finding, soon after his arrival, that they could be used to better advantage
in Virginia, transported some of them to that colony.

During his absence one Thomas Morton, a lawyer of Clifford's Inn, asserted his authority, freed
the rest of the settlers, and engaged in a successful traffic with the Indians for beaver and
other skins. This circumstance was itself calculated to excite the jealousy of the Plymouth
settlers, but the ceremonies and customs at "Merry Mount," which name Morton gave to the settlement
in lieu of "Mount Wollaston," caused them to regard him with even greater disgust. He instituted
the Episcopal service and planted a May-pole eighty feet high, around which, for many days
together, the settlers "frisked" hand-in-hand with the Indian girls.

As Morton was outside of the Plymouth jurisdiction, the colonists there had no right to interfere
except in self-defence. But the Plymouth people asserted that Morton sold arms to the Indians
and received runaway servants. This made him dangerous, and all the other "straggling settlements,"
though, like Morton's, of the church of England, united with the people at Plymouth in suppressing
Morton's settlement. In June, 1628, a joint force under Captain Miles Standish was sent against
Merry Mount, and Morton was captured and shipped to England in charge of John Oldham, who had
made his peace with Plymouth, and now took with him letters to the Council for New England
and to Sir Ferdinando Gorges, in which Morton's offences were duly set forth.[18]

The settlements besides Plymouth which took part in the expedition were Piscataqua (Portsmouth);
Nantasket (now Hull), then the seat of John Oldham; Naumkeag (now Salem); Winnisimmet (now
Chelsea), where Mr. Jeffrey and Mr. Burslem lived; Cocheco, on the Piscataqua, where Edward
Hilton lived; Thompson's Island, where the widow of David Thompson lived; and Shawmut (now
Boston), where Rev. William Blackstone lived. Besides the settlements, there were in the neighborhood
of Plymouth plantations of some solitary settlers whose names do not appear in this transaction.
Thomas Walford lived at Mishawum (now Charlestown), and Samuel Maverick on Noddle's Island;
Wessagusset also had probably a few inhabitants.

In 1627 De Rasières, the secretary of state of the Dutch colony at New Netherland, opened a
correspondence with Governor Bradford and assured him of his desire to cultivate friendly relations.
Bradford gave a kind reply, but questioned the right of the Dutch on the coast, and invited
Rasières to a conference. He accepted the invitation, and in 1628 visited the Puritan settlement.
A profitable exchange of merchandise succeeded, and the Dutch taught the Plymouth men the value
of wampum in trading for furs, and sold them £50 worth of it. It was found useful both as a
currency and commodity, and afterwards the settlers learned to make it from the shells on the
sea-shore.[19] It was not till five years later that this peaceful correspondence with the
Dutch was disturbed.

Unfriendliness characterized, from the first, the relations with the French. They claimed that
Acadia extended as far south as Pemaquid, and one day in 1631, when the manager of the Penobscot
factory was away, a French privateer appeared in port and landed its crew. In the story, as
told by Bradford, the levity of the French and the solemn seriousness of the Puritans afford
a delightful contrast. The Frenchmen were profuse in "compliments" and "congees," but taking
the English at a disadvantage forced them to an unconditional surrender. They stripped the
factory of its goods, and as they sailed away bade their victims tell the manager when he came
back "that the Isle of Rhé gentlemen had been there."[20] In 1633, after Razilly's appointment
as governor-general, De la Tour, one of his lieutenants, attacked and drove away the Plymouth
men at Machias Bay,[21] and in 1635 D'Aulnay, another lieutenant, dispossessed the English
at Penobscot.

The Plymouth people, greatly incensed, sent two armed ships to punish the French, but the expedition
proved a failure. Then they appealed to Massachusetts for help, but the great men of that colony,
hoping, as Bradford intimates, to arrange a trade with the French on their own account, declined
to be at any expense in the matter,[22] and so the Penobscot remained in unfriendly hands for
many years.

This appeal to Massachusetts showed that another power had stepped to the front in New England.
After John Winthrop set up his government in 1630 on Massachusetts Bay the history of the Plymouth
colony ceased to be of first importance, and therefore the remaining events in her annals need
not take much space. In 1633 the people of Plymouth established a fort on Connecticut River
above the Dutch post, so as to intercept the Indian trade, and in 1639 they renewed the ancient
league with Massasoit.[23] In 1640 they had a dispute with Massachusetts over the boundary-line,
which was arranged by a compromise, and in 1641 William Bradford deeded to the freemen of the
corporation of New Plymouth the patent of 1630, granted by the Council for New England to him
as trustee for the colony.[24] Finally, in 1643, Plymouth became a member of the New England
confederation.

A survey of these twenty-three years (1620-1643) shows that during the first eleven years the
increase in population was very slow. In 1624 there were one hundred and eighty settlers and
in 1630 but three hundred. The emigration to Massachusetts, beginning in 1629, brought about
a great change. It overflowed into Plymouth, and in twelve years more the population had increased
to three thousand.[25] The new settlers were a miscellaneous set, composed for the most part
of "unruly servants" and dissipated young men, whose ill conduct caused the old rulers like
Bradford to question "whether after twenty years' time the greater part be not grown worser."[26]
Nevertheless, the people increased their "outward estate," and as they scattered in search
of fertile land, Plymouth, "in which they lived compactly till now, was left very thin and
in a short time almost desolate." In 1632 a separate church and town of the name of Duxbury
was formed north of Plymouth; and eleven years later the towns of the Plymouth colony were
ten in number: Plymouth, Duxbury, Scituate, Taunton, Sandwich, Yarmouth, Barnstable, Marshfield,
Seeconck, or Rehoboth, and Nausett.[27]

At the first arrival the executive and judicial powers were exercised by John Carver, without
any authorized adviser. After his death, in 1621, the same powers were vested in William Bradford
as governor and Isaac Allerton as assistant.[28] In 1624 the number of assistants was increased
to five and in 1633 to seven, and the governor was given a double voice.[29] The elective and
legislative powers were vested in a primary assembly of all the freemen, called the "General
Court," held at short intervals. Plymouth was allowed four delegates, and each of the other
towns two, and they, with the governor and his council of assistants, constituted the law-making
body of the colony. To be entitled to hold office or vote at the court of elections, the person
had to be "a freeman"; and to acquire this character, he had to be specially chosen one of
the company at one of the general courts. Thus suffrage was regarded as a privilege and not
a right.[30]

Although the first of the colonies to establish a Separatist church, the Puritans of Plymouth
did not make church-membership a condition of citizenship; still, there can be no doubt that
this restriction practically prevailed at Plymouth, since up to 1643 only about two hundred
and thirty persons acquired the suffrage. In the general laws of Plymouth, published in 1671,
it was provided as a condition of receiving the franchise that "the candidate should be of
sober and peaceable conversation, orthodox in the fundamentals of religion," which was probably
only a recognition of the custom of earlier times.[31] The earliest New England code of statutes
was that of Plymouth, adopted in 1636. It was digested under fifty titles and recognized seven
capital offences, witchcraft being one.[32]

In the Plymouth colony, as in other colonies of New England, the unit of government was the
town, and this town system was borrowed from Massachusetts, where, as we shall see, the inhabitants
of Dorchester set the example, in 1633, of coming together for governmental purposes. Entitled
to take part in the town-meetings under the Plymouth laws were all freemen and persons "admitted
inhabitants" of a town. They elected the deputies of the general court and the numerous officers
of the town, and had the authority to pass local ordinances of nearly every description.[33]

During the early days, except for the short time of Lyford's service, Elder William Brewster
was the spiritual guide for the people. For a long time they kept the place of minister waiting
for Robinson, but when he died they secured, in 1628, the services of Mr. Rogers, who proved
to "be crazed in his brain" and had to be sent back the following year. Then, in 1629, Mr.
Ralph Smith was minister, and Roger Williams assisted him. Smith was a man of small abilities,
and after enduring him for eight years they persuaded him to resign. After Smith's resignation
the office of minister at Plymouth was filled by Rev. John Rayner.[34]

The educational advantages of the Plymouth colony were meagre, and the little learning that
existed was picked up in the old English way by home instruction. This deficiency was due to
the stern conditions of a farmer's life on Cape Cod Bay, where the soil was poor and the climate
severe, necessitating the constant labor of the whole family.

Nevertheless, the Plymouth colony was always an example to its neighbors for thrift, economy,
and integrity, and it influenced to industry by proving what might be done on a barren soil.
Its chief claim to historical importance rests, of course, on the fact that, as the first successful
colony on the New England coast, it was the cause and beginning of the establishment of the
other colonies of New England, and the second step in founding the great republic of the United
States.

[Footnote 1: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 112.]

[Footnote 2: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 114-117.]

[Footnote 3: Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d. series, VII., 73-76.]

[Footnote 10: Adams, Three Episodes of Mass. Hist., I., 152.]

[Footnote 11: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 238.]

[Footnote 12: Palfrey, New England, I., 222, 285.]

[Footnote 13: Hubbard, New England (Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, VI., 110).]

[Footnote 14: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 237; Planters' Plea (Force, Tracts, II., No. iii.).]

[Footnote 15: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 237-258.]

[Footnote 16: Ibid., 248.]

[Footnote 17: Hazard, State Papers, I., 298.]

[Footnote 18: Bradford, Letter-Book (Mass. Hist. In August, 1643, the number of males of military
age was 627.]

[Footnote 32: Brigham, Plymouth Charter and Laws, 43, 244.]

[Footnote 33: Palfrey, New England, II., 7; Howard, Local Constitutional History, 50-99.]

[Footnote 34: Bradford, Plimoth Plantation, 314, 418, 419.]

CHAPTER XI

GENESIS OF MASSACHUSETTS

(1628-1630)

The abandonment, in 1626, of their colony at Cape Ann by the Dorchester adventurers, did not
cause connection to be entirely severed either in America or in England. In America, Conant
and three of the more industrious settlers remained, but as the fishery was abandoned, they
withdrew with the cattle from the exposed promontory at Cape Ann to Naumkeag, afterwards Salem.[1]
In England a few of the adventurers, loath to give up entirely, sent over more cattle, and
the enterprise, suddenly attracting other support, rose to a greater promise than had ever
been anticipated.[2]

Among those in England who did not lose hope was the Rev. John White, of Dorchester, a merchant
as well as a preacher, and his large figure stands on the threshold of the great commonwealth
of Massachusetts. Thomas Fuller says that he had absolute command of two things not easily
controlled--"his own passions and the purses of his parishioners." White wrote Conant and his
associates to stick by the work, and promised to obtain for them a patent and fully provide
them with means to carry on the fur trade. The matter was discussed in Lincolnshire and London,
and soon a powerful association came into being and lent its help.

Other men, some of whom are historic personages, began to take a leading part, and there was
at first no common religious purpose among the new associates. The contemporary literature
is curiously free from any special appeal to Puritanic principles, and the arguments put forward
are much the same as those urged for the settlement of Virginia. The work of planting a new
colony was taken up enthusiastically, and a patent, dated March 19, 1628, was obtained from
the Council for New England, conceding to six grantees, Sir Henry Rosewell, Sir John Young,
Thomas Southcot, John Humphrey, John Endicott, and Simon Whitcombe, "all that Parte of New
England in America aforesaid, which lyes and extendes betweene a greate River there comonlie
called Monomack alias Merriemack, and a certen other River there, called Charles River, being
in the Bottome of a certayne Bay there, comonlie called Massachusetts alias Mattachusetts,
... and ... lyeing within the Space of three English Myles on the South Parte of the said Charles
River, ... and also ... within the space of three English Myles to the Northward of the said
River called Monomack, ... throughout the Mayne Landes there, from the Atlantick and Westerne
Sea and Ocean on the East Parte, to the South Sea on the West Parte."

The patent also gave to the company "all Jurisdiccons, Rights, Royalties, Liberties, Freedoms,
Ymmunities, Priviledges, Franchises, Preheminences, and Commodities, whatsoever, which they,
the said Council established at Plymouth, ... then had, ... within the saide Landes and Premisses."[3]
On account of the reckless manner in which the Council for New England granted away its territory,
the patent conflicted with several others of an earlier date. In March, 1622, they had granted
to John Mason a patent for all the land between Naumkeag and the Merrimac River. Then, in December,
1622, a part of this territory having a front of ten miles "upon the northeast side of Boston
Bay," and extending thirty miles into the interior, was granted to Captain Robert Gorges.[4]
Next, at the division in June, 1623, the part of New England about Boston Bay fell to Lord
Sheffield, the earl of Warwick, and Lord Edward Gorges, a cousin of Sir Ferdinando. The rights
under the first and last of these grants were surrendered in 1629,[5] but, according to Ferdinando
Gorges, he, as one of the council, only sanctioned the patent to Rosewell and his partners
on the understanding that the grant to his son should not be interfered with; and the maintenance
of this claim was the occasion of dispute for some years.[6]

June 20, 1628, the new company sent out a party of emigrants under John Endicott, who arrived,
September 6, at Naumkeag, where, with the number already on Boston Bay at their coming, they
made about fifty or sixty persons. He found the remains of Conant's company disposed to question
the claims of the new-comers, but the dispute was amicably arranged, and in commemoration Naumkeag
was given the name of Salem, the Hebrew word for "Peaceful."[7]

For nearly a year little is known of the settlers except that in the winter some died of the
scurvy and others of an "infectious fever."[8] Endicott wrote to Plymouth for medical assistance,
and Bradford sent Dr. Samuel Fuller, whose services were thankfully acknowledged. One transaction
which has come down to us shows that Endicott's government early marked out the lines on which
the Massachusetts colony travelled for many years afterwards. Endicott made it evident that
he would make no compromise with any of the "ungodly" in Massachusetts. Morton's settlement
fell within Endicott's jurisdiction, and he resolved to finish the work which the Plymouth
people began. So, about three months after the first visit, Endicott, with a small party, crossed
the bay, hewed down the abominable May-pole, and, solemnly dubbing the place Mount Dago, in
memory of the Philistine idol which fell down before the ark of the Lord, "admonished Morton's
men to look ther should be better walking."

In the mean time, important events were happening in England. John Oldham, having Thomas Morton
in custody, landed at Plymouth, England, not long after Endicott left for America. Morton posed
as a martyr to religious persecution, and Oldham, who remembered his own troubles with the
Plymouth settlers, soon fraternized with him. They acted in connection with Ferdinando Gorges
and his son John Gorges, who, instead of punishing Morton for illicit trading, made use of
him and Oldham to dispute the title of the grant to Endicott and his associates. Robert Gorges
was then dead, and his brother John was heir to his patent for the northeast side of Massachusetts
Bay.

Accordingly, John Gorges, in January, 1629, executed two deeds--one to John Oldham and the
other to Sir William Brereton--for two tracts of land out of the original grant to Robert Gorges.
Oldham planted himself on his new rights, and tried to make his patent the means to obtain
from the Massachusetts Company in England the exclusive management of the colony's fur trade,
or the recognition of his rights as an independent trader. But the company had already set
aside the profits of the fur trade as a fund for the defence of the colony and the support
of the public worship, and they would make no concession.[9] Instead, they took the best means
to strengthen their title and suppress such disturbers as Oldham.

A royal charter was solicited, and March 4, 1629, one of liberal powers passed the seals, chiefly
through the influence of the earl of Warwick.[10] It created a corporation by the name of the
"Governor and Company of Massachusetts Bay in New England," and confirmed to them all the territory
given by the patent from the Council for New England. The administration of its affairs was
intrusted to a governor, deputy, and eighteen assistants, who were annually, on the last Wednesday
of Easter term, to be elected by the freemen or members of the corporation, and to meet once
a month or oftener "for despatching such business as concerned the company or plantation."
Four times a year the governor, assistants, and all the freemen were to be summoned to "a greate
generall, and solemne assemblie," and these "greate and generall courts" were invested with
full power to choose and admit into the company so many as they should think fit, to elect
and constitute all requisite subordinate officers, and to make laws and ordinances for the
welfare of the company and for the government of the plantation.

The company was given the power to transport to its American territory all persons who should
go willingly, but the corporate body alone was to decide what liberties, if any, the emigrants
should enjoy. In fact, the only restrictions in the charter upon the company and its court
of assistants were that they should license no man "to rob or spoil," hinder no one from fishing
upon the coast of New England, and pass "no law contrary or repugnant to the lawes and statutes
of England." Matthew Cradock was named in the charter the governor of the company.

One of the first steps taken by the company under the new charter was to organize a temporary
local government for the colonists in Massachusetts. This was to consist of a governor, a deputy
governor, and thirteen councillors, of whom seven were to be named by the company, three were
to be chosen by these seven and the governor, and three more were to be appointed by the "old
planters" found in Massachusetts at the arrival of Endicott. Land was allotted on a plan like
that adopted by the London Company: each shareholder was to have two hundred acres for every
£50 that he invested, and if he settled in that country, fifty more for himself and fifty more
for each member of his family.[11]

A letter of instructions was draughted, April 17, to Governor Endicott, in which mention was
made of the negotiations with Oldham, and orders given to effect an occupation of the territory
covered by his grant from John Gorges. This letter was sent off by a special ship which reached
Salem June 20, 1629, and Endicott promptly despatched three brothers of the name of Sprague,
and a few others, who planted themselves at Mishawum, within the disputed territory, where
they found but "one English palisadoed and thatched house wherein lived Thomas Walford, a smith."
Other emigrants followed, and there, in July, was laid out by Endicott a town which was named
Charlestown. This practically ended the difficulty with Oldham, who was kept in the dark till
the ship sailed from England, and was then told by the company that they were determined, on
advice of counsel, to treat his grant as void. As for Brereton, he was made a member of the
company and did not give any real trouble.[12]

May 11, 1629, sailed from London five ships carrying about four hundred settlers, most of whom
were servants, and one hundred and forty head of cattle and forty goats. They arrived at Salem,
June 27, and about four weeks later the ecclesiastical organization of the colony was effected
by John Endicott, who had already written to Bradford that the worship at Plymouth was "no
other than is warranted by the evidence of the truth." He set apart July 20 for the work, and,
after a portion of the morning spent in prayer, Samuel Skelton and Francis Higginson, two of
the four ministers who accompanied the last arrivals, avowed their belief in the doctrines
of the Independents, and were elected respectively pastor and teacher. A confession of faith
and a church covenant were drawn up, and August 6 thirty persons associated themselves in a
church.[13]

Two of the gentlemen emigrants, John and Samuel Browne, presumed to hold a separate service
with a small company, using the Prayer Book. Thereupon the hot-headed Endicott arrested them,
put them on shipboard, and sent them back to England. This conduct of Endicott's was a flagrant
aggression on vested rights, since the Brownes appear in the charter as original promoters
of the colony, and were sent to Massachusetts by the company in the high capacity of assistants
or councillors to Endicott himself. The two brothers complained in England, and in October,
1629, the company sent Endicott a warning against "undigested counsels ... which may have any
ill construction with the state here and make us obnoxious to an adversary."[14]

In another particular Endicott showed the summary character which distinguished him. When Morton
arrived in London a prisoner, in 1628, Isaac Allerton was trying to secure from the Council
for New England a new patent for Plymouth colony. In Morton he appears to have recognized a
convenient medium for reaching Sir Ferdinando Gorges; at any rate, when Allerton returned to
New England in the summer of 1629, he brought Thomas Morton back with him, to the scandal of
the Plymouth community.[15] After a few weeks at Plymouth, Morton repaired to Merry Mount and
resumed the business of a fur-trader, but, as might have been expected, he was soon brought
into conflict with his neighbors.

Endicott, it appears, not long after Morton's return, in pursuance of instructions from England,
summoned all the settlers in Massachusetts to a general court at Salem. At this meeting, according
to Morton, Endicott tendered to all present for signature articles binding them "to follow
the rule of God's word in all causes as well ecclesiasticall as politicall." The alternative
was banishment, but Morton says that he declined to subscribe without the words in the Massachusetts
charter, "so as nothing be done contrary or repugnant to the Lawes of the Kingdome of England."
Endicott took fire at the independent claims of Morton and sent a party to arrest him. They
found Morton gone, whereupon they broke into his house and appropriated his corn and other
property.[16]

Meanwhile, in England, an important determination had been reached by the leaders of the Massachusetts
Company. At a general court, July 28, 1629, Cradock, the governor, read "certain propositions
conceived by himself" for transferring the headquarters of the company to America.[17] The
matter was held in abeyance, and the members present were instructed to consider the question
"privately and secretely." August 26 twelve of the most influential members, among whom were
John Winthrop, Isaac Johnson, Thomas Dudley, and Richard Saltonstall, bound themselves by a
written agreement at Cambridge to emigrate with their families to New England if a transfer
of the government could be effected.[18]

Three days later the company held another meeting, when the removal was formally proposed and
carried. The ultimate effect of this brilliant stroke was to convert the company into a colony.[19]

This change of policy was taken when affairs looked particularly dark in England, for it was
about this time that King Charles, provoked at the opposition of Parliament, entered upon his
policy of ruling without one. March 10, 1629, Parliament was dissolved, and no other was called
for a space of eleven years. Several of the most eminent members were languishing in the Tower
of London, and the king's proclamation of March 27 announced that he would "account it as a
presumption for any to prescribe any time unto us for Parliaments, the calling, continuing,
and dissolving of which is always in our power."[20]

The result was a general stir throughout England, and in a few months a thousand persons prepared
to leave. They went in several parties in seventeen ships, and there was probably a greater
proportion of men of wealth and solid respectability than ever had left England for America
in any one year before. The colonists, though Puritans, were church of England men, and the
idea of any separation from their old religious connections was expressly disclaimed in a pamphlet
published in 1630, entitled the "Planters' Plea,"[21] which has been, with good reason, assigned
to Rev. John White. In this paper the writer appeals to the address of the colonists at their
departure, wherein they termed the church of England "our dear mother."[22] Apparently anxious
to repel the imputation of nonconformity against "our New England colony," he adds the confident
assertion that John Winthrop, the chosen governor, has been "in every way regular and conformable
in the whole course of his practice"; and that "three parts of four of the men planted in New
England are able to justify themselves to have lived in a constant conformity unto our church
government and orders."

The party with which Winthrop sailed arrived at Salem June 12, 1630, after a nine weeks' voyage,
in which they were exposed to stormy and boisterous weather. They found the colony of Endicott
in "a sad and unexpected condition." More than a fourth part had died during the previous winter,
and many of the survivors were weak and sick. Here, as elsewhere, there was much sickness and
death. Owing to the dearth of provisions it was found necessary to free all the servants sent
over within the last two years at a cost of £16 or £20 each. The discouragement was reflected
in the return to England within a few months of more than a hundred persons in the ships that
brought them over.

The gloom of his surroundings caused Winthrop to set apart July 30 as a day of prayer, and
on that day Rev. John Wilson, after the manner of proceeding the year before at Salem, entered
into a church covenant with Winthrop, Dudley, and Isaac Johnson, one of the assistants. Two
days later they associated with themselves five others; and more being presently added, this
third congregational church established in New England, elected, August 27, John Wilson to
be their teacher and Increase Nowell to be ruling elder.[1]

Still the guise of loyalty to the church of England was for some time maintained. In a letter
to the countess of Lincoln, March 28, 1631, the deputy governor, Thomas Dudley, one of the
warmest of the Puritans, repelled "the false and scandalous report," which those who returned
"the last year" had spread in England that "we are Brownists in religion and ill affected to
our state at home"; "and for our further cleareinge," he said, "I truely affirme that I know
noe one person who came over with us the last yeare to be altered in his judgment and affection
eyther in ecclesiasticall or civill respects since our comeinge hither."[2]

Winthrop and his assistants held their first formal session at Charlestown, August 23, 1630,
and took vigorous measures to demonstrate their authority. Morton challenged attention on account
not only of his religious views and his friendship for Gorges, but of his defiant attitude
to the colony, and an order was issued that "Morton, of Mount Wolliston, should presently be
sent for by process." Two weeks later his trial was had, and he was ordered "to be set into
the bilboes," and afterwards sent prisoner to England. To defray the charges of his transportation,
his goods were seized, and "for the many wrongs he had done the Indians" his house was burned
to the ground,[3] a sentence which, according to Morton, caused the Indians to say that "God
would not love them that burned this good man's house."[4]

Death was still playing havoc with the immigrants at Charlestown. Several hundred men, women,
and children were crowded together in a narrow space, and had no better protection than tents,
wigwams, booths, and log-cabins. By December two hundred of the late arrivals had perished,
and among the dead were Francis Higginson, who had taken a leading part in establishing the
church at Salem, the first in Massachusetts.[5] The severity of the diseases was ascribed to
the lack of good water at Charlestown, and, accordingly, the settlers there broke up into small
parties and sought out different places of settlement.

On the other side of the Charles River was a peninsula occupied by William Blackstone, one
of the companions of Robert Gorges at Wessagusset in 1626. It was blessed with a sweet and
pleasant spring, and was one of the places now selected as a settlement. September 7, 1630,
the court of assistants gave this place the name of Boston; and at the same court Dorchester
and Watertown began their career under legislative sanction.[6] Before winter the towns scattered
through Massachusetts were eight in number--Salem, Charlestown, Dorchester, Boston, Watertown,
Roxbury, Mystic, and Lynn.[7]

October 19, 1630, a general court, the first in New England, was held in Boston. The membership
consisted of the governor, deputy, eight assistants, and one or two others, for these were
all at that time in Massachusetts possessing the franchise of the company.[8] The former officers
were re-elected, and a resolution was adopted that "the freemen should have the power to choose
assistants when they are to be chosen, and the assistants to choose from among themselves the
governor and his deputy." The rule implied a strong reluctance to leave out of the board any
person once elected magistrate.

From the last week in December to the middle of February, 1631, the suffering in the colony
was very great, especially among the poorer classes, and many died. Were it not for the abundance
of clams, mussels, and fish gathered from the bay there might have been a "starving time,"
like that of Jamestown in 1609. Winthrop appointed a fast to be kept February 22, 1631; but
February 5 the Lyon arrived with supplies, and a public thanksgiving was substituted for a
public fasting.[9]

From this time the colony may be said to have secured a permanent footing. The court of assistants,
who had suspended their sessions during the winter, now began to meet again, and made many
orders with reference to the economic and social affairs of the colonists. There were few natives
in the neighborhood of the settlement, and Chickatabot, their sachem, anxious to secure the
protection of the English against the Taratines, of Maine, visited Boston in April and established
friendly communications.[10] At the courts of elections of 1631, 1632, and 1633 Winthrop was
re-elected governor. His conduct was not deemed harsh enough by some people, and in 1634 Thomas
Dudley succeeded him. In 1635 Jonn Haynes became governor, and in 1636 Henry Vane, known in
English history as Sir Harry Vane, after which time the governorship was restored to Winthrop.

Puritanism entered the warp and woof of the Massachusetts colony, and a combination of circumstances
tended to build up a theocracy which dominated affairs. The ministers who came over were among
the most learned men of the age, and the influence which their talents and character gave them
was greatly increased by the sufferings and the isolation of the church members, who were thus
brought to confide all the more in those who, under such conditions, dispensed religious consolation.
Moreover, the few who had at first the direction of civil matters were strongly religious men,
and inclined to promote the unity of the church by all the means at hand.

We have noticed the turn of affairs given by Endicott at Salem, and how Winthrop followed his
example on his arrival at Charlestown. After the court of assistants resumed their meetings
in March, 1631, the upbuilding of the theocracy was rapidly pushed. Various people deemed inimical
to the accepted state of affairs were punished with banishment from the colony, and in some
cases the penalties of whipping, cropping of ears, and confiscation of estate were added. In
some cases, as that of Sir Christopher Gardiner, a secret agent of Sir Ferdinando Gorges, there
was reason for parting with these people; but in other cases the principle of punishment was
persecution and not justice.

These proceedings practically vested all the judicial and legislative powers in the court of
assistants, whose tenure was permanent, and left to the freemen in the general court little
else than the power of admitting freemen. Not only was citizenship based on church-membership,
but the Bible was the only law-book recognized by the court of assistants. Of this book the
ministers were naturally thought the best interpreters, and it thus became the custom for the
magistrates to consult them on all questions of importance. Offenders were not merely law-breakers,
but sinners, and their offences ranged from such as wore long hair to such as dealt in witchcraft
and sorcery.

Fortunately, this system did not long continue without some modification. In February, 1632,
the court of assistants assessed a tax upon the towns for the erection of a fortification at
Newtown, subsequently Cambridge. The inhabitants of Watertown grumbled about paying their proportion
of this tax, and at the third general court, May 9, 1632, it was ordered that hereafter the
governor and assistants in laying taxes should be guided by the advice of a board composed
of two delegates from every town; and that the governor and other magistrates should be elected
by the whole body of the freemen assembled as the charter required.

Two years later a general court consisting of the governor, assistants, and two "committees,"
or delegates, elected by the freemen resident in each town, assembled and assumed the powers
of legislation.[13] This change, which brought about a popular representative body--second
in point of time only to Virginia--was a natural extension of the proceedings of 1632. In 1644
the assistants and delegates quarrelled over an appeal in a lawsuit, and as a result the division
of the court into two co-ordinate branches occurred.[14]

Nevertheless, the authority of the court of assistants, for several reasons, continued to be
very great. In the first place, unlike the Council of Virginia, which could only amend or reject
the action of the lower house, the assistants had the right of originating laws. Then the custom
at the annual elections of first putting the names of the incumbents to the vote made the tenure
of its members a pretty constant affair. Next, as a court, it exercised for years a vast amount
of discretionary power. Not till 1641 was the first code, called the Body of Liberties, adopted,
and this code itself permitted the assistants to supply any defect in the law by the "word
of God," a phrase which to the followers of Calvin had especial reference to the fierce legislation
of the Old Testament.

The course of the colonial authorities speedily jeopardized the charter which they obtained
so readily from the king. Upon the arrival in England, in 1631, of Morton, Gardiner, and other
victims of the court of assistants, they communicated with Gorges (now powerfully assisted
by John Mason); and he gladly seized upon their complaints to accuse the ministers and people
of Massachusetts of railing against the state and church of England, and of an evident purpose
of casting off their allegiance at the first favorable opportunity. The complaint was referred,
in December, 1632, to a committee of the council,[15] before whom the friends of the company
in London--Cradock, Saltonstall, and Humphrey--filed a written answer. Affairs bore a bad appearance
for the colonists, but the unexpected happened. Powerful influences at court were brought to
bear upon the members of the committee, and to the astonishment of every one they reported,
January 19, 1633, against any interference until "further inquiry" could be made.[16] King
Charles not only approved this report, but volunteered the remark that "he would have them
severely punished who did abuse his governor and the plantation."[17]

Though the danger for the present was avoided, it was not wholly removed. In August, 1633,
Laud was made archbishop of Canterbury, and his accession to authority was distinguished by
a more rigorous enforcement of the laws against Nonconformists. The effect was to cause the
lagging emigration to New England to assume immense volume. There was no longer concealment
of the purposes of the emigrants, for the Puritan preachers began everywhere to speak openly
of the corruptions of the English church.[18] In September, 1633, the theocracy of Massachusetts
were reinforced by three eminent ministers, John Cotton, Thomas Hooker, and Thomas Shepard;
and so many other persons accompanied and followed them that by the end of 1634 the population
was not far short of four thousand. The clergy, now thirteen or fourteen in number, were nearly
all graduates of Oxford or Cambridge.

This exodus of so many of the best, "both ministers and Christians,"[19] aroused the king and
Archbishop Laud to the danger threatened by the Massachusetts colony. Gorges, Mason, and the
rest renewed the attack, and in February, 1634, an order was obtained from the Privy Council
for the detention of ten vessels bound for Massachusetts. At the same time Cradock, the ex-governor
of the company, was commanded by the Privy Council to hand in the Massachusetts charter.[20]
Soon after, the king announced his intention of "giving order for a general governor" for New
England; and in April, 1634, he appointed a new commission for the government of the colonies,
called "The Commission for Foreign Plantations," with William Laud, archbishop of Canterbury,
at the head. Mr. Cradock transmitted a copy of the order of council, requiring a production
of the charter, to Boston, where it was received by Governor Dudley in July, 1634.

This was a momentous crisis in the history of the colony. The governor and assistants made
answer to Mr. Cradock that the charter could not be returned except by command of the general
court, not then in session. At the same time orders were given for fortifying Castle Island,
Dorchester, and Charlestown. In this moment of excitement the figure of Endicott again dramatically
crosses the stage of history. Conceiving an intense dislike to the cross in the English flag,
he denounced it as antichrist, and cut it out with his own hands from the ensign borne by the
company at Salem. Endicott was censured by the general court for the act, but soon the cross
was left out of all the flags except that of the fort at Castle Island, in Boston Harbor.[21]

Massachusetts, while taking these bold measures at home, did not neglect the protection of
her interests in England. The government of Plymouth, in July, 1634, sent Edward Winslow to
England, and Governor Dudley and his council engaged him to present an humble petition in their
behalf.[22] Winslow was a shrewd diplomat, but was so far from succeeding with his suit that
upon his appearance before the lords commissioners in 1635 he was, through Laud's "vehement
importunity," committed to Fleet Prison, where he lay seventeen weeks.[23]

Gorges and Mason lost no time in improving their victory. February 3, 1635, they secured a
redivision of the coast of New England by the Council for New England, into twelve parts, which
were assigned to as many persons. Sir William Alexander received the country from the river
St. Croix to Pemaquid; Sir Ferdinando Gorges, the province of Maine from Penobscot to Piscataqua;
Captain John Mason, New Hampshire and part of Massachusetts as far as Cape Ann, while the coast
from Cape Ann to Narragansett Bay fell to Lord Edward Gorges, and the portion from Narragansett
Bay to the Connecticut River to the marquis of Hamilton.[24]

April 25, 1635, the Council for New England issued a formal declaration of their reasons for
resigning the great charter to the king, chief among which was their inability to rectify the
complaints of their servants in America against the Massachusetts Company, who had "surreptitiously"
obtained a charter for lands "justly passed to Captain Robert Gorges long before."[25] June
7 the charter was surrendered to the king, who appointed Sir Ferdinando Gorges "general governor."
The expiring company further appointed Thomas Morton as their lawyer to ask for a quo warranto
against the charter of the Massachusetts Company.

In September, 1635, judgment was given in Westminster Hall that "the franchises of the Massachusetts
Company be taken and seized into the king's hands."[26] But, as Winthrop said, the Lord "frustrated
their designs." King Charles was trying to rule without a Parliament, and had no money to spend
against New England. Therefore, the cost of carrying out the orders of the government devolved
upon Mason and Gorges, who set to work to build a ship to convey the latter to America, but
it fell and broke in the launching,[27] and about November, 1635, Captain John Mason died.

After this, though the king in council, in July, 1637, named Gorges again as "general governor,"[28]
and the Lords Commissioners for Plantations, in April, 1638, demanded the charter anew,[29]
the Massachusetts general court would not recognize either order. Gorges could not raise the
necessary funds to compel obedience, and the attention of the king and his archbishop was occupied
with forcing episcopacy upon Scotland. In 1642 war began in England between Parliament and
king, and Massachusetts was left free to shape her own destinies. It was now her turn to become
aggressive. Construing her charter to mean that her territory extended to a due east line three
miles north of the most northerly branch of Merrimac River, she possessed herself, in 1641,
of New Hampshire, the territory of the heirs of John Mason; and in 1653-1658, of Maine, the
province of Gorges.

When the Long Parliament met, in 1641, the Puritans in England found enough occupation at home,
and emigration greatly diminished. In 1643 Massachusetts became a member of the New England
confederation, and her population was then about fifteen thousand; but nearly as many more
had come over and were distributed among three new colonies--Rhode Island, Connecticut, and
New Haven. Soc., Collections, 2d series, VII., 183-188.]

[Footnote 25: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, pp. 200, 204.]

[Footnote 26: Hazard, State Papers, I., 423-425.]

[Footnote 27: Winthrop, New England, II., 12.]

[Footnote 28: Cal. of State Pap., Col., 1574-1660, p. 256.]

[Footnote 29: Hazard, State Papers, I., 432.]

CHAPTER XIII

RELIGION AND GOVERNMENT IN MASSACHUSETTS

(1631-1638)

The history of the beginnings of the Massachusetts colony shows that there was no real unity
in church matters among the first emigrants. The majority were strongly tinctured with Puritanism,
but nonconformity took on many shades of opinion. When it came to adopting a form of religion
for Massachusetts, the question was decided by the ministers and the handful who then enjoyed
the controlling power in the colony, and not by the majority of inhabitants. It was in this
way that the Congregational church, and not the Presbyterian church, or a simplified form of
the Anglican church, obtained its first hold upon the colony.

The adoption of the law of 1631 making membership in the Congregational church the condition
of citizenship, and the arrival at a later day of so many talented ministers embittered by
persecution against the Anglican church, strengthened the connection and made it permanent.
"God's word" was the law of the state, and the interpretation of it was the natural function
of the clergy. Thus, through church influence, the limitations on thought and religious practice
became more stringent than in the mother-country, where the suffrage took in all freeholders,
whether they were adherents of the established church or not.

In Massachusetts even Puritans who declined to acknowledge the form of church government prescribed
by the self-established ecclesiastical authority were practically aliens, compelled to bear
the burdens of church and state, and without a chance of making themselves felt in the government.
And yet, from their own point of view, the position of the Puritan rulers was totally illogical.
While suffering from persecution in England, they had appealed to liberty of conscience; and
when dominant in America the denouncers of persecution turned persecutors.

A spirit of resistance on the part of many was the natural consequence of a position so full
of contradiction. Instances of contumacy happened with such frequency and determination as
should have given warning to those in control. In November, 1631, Richard Brown, an elder in
the Watertown church, was reported to hold that "the Romish church was a Christian church."
Forthwith the court of assistants notified the Watertown congregation that such views could
not be allowed, and Winthrop, who went in person with the deputy governor, Dudley, used such
summary arguments that Richard Brown, though "a man of violent spirit," thought it prudent
to hold his tongue thereafter. In November, 1634, John Eliot, known afterwards so well for
his noble work among the Indians, in a sermon censured the court for proceeding too arbitrarily
towards the Pequots. He, too, thought better of his words when a solemn embassy of ministers
presented the matter in a more orthodox light.

In March, 1635, Captain Israel Stoughton, one of the deputies from Dorchester to the general
court, incurred the resentment of the authorities. This "troubler of Israel," as Governor Winthrop
termed him, wrote a pamphlet denying the right of the governor and assistants to call themselves
"Scriptural Magistrates." Being questioned by the court, the captain made haste, according
to the record, to desire that "the said book might be burned as being weak and oppressive."
Still unsatisfied, the court ordered that for his said offence he should for three years be
disabled from bearing any office in the colony.[1]

The first great check which this religious despotism received proceeded from Roger Williams,
who arrived in February, 1631, in the Lyon, which brought supplies to the famishing colonists
of Massachusetts. He was the son of a merchant in London and a graduate of Pembroke College,
Cambridge, where he took the degree of master of arts in 1627. In his mere religious creed
Williams was harsher than even the orthodox ministers of Massachusetts. Soon after his arrival
he was invited to become one of the ministers of the Boston church, but refused because that
church declined to make a public declaration of their repentance for holding communion in the
churches of England while they lived in the home country.

He was then invited to Salem, where he made himself very popular by his talents and eloquence.
Nevertheless, within two months he advanced other "scrupulosities," denying the validity of
land-titles proceeding from the Massachusetts government, and the right of the magistrates
to impose penalties as to Sabbath-breaking or breaches of the laws of the first table. Winthrop
and his assistants complained to the Salem church, and this interference prevented his intended
ordination at Salem.[2]

Williams presently removed to Plymouth, where his peculiar views were indulged, and where he
improved his time in learning the Indian language and cultivating the acquaintance of the chief
sachems of the neighboring Indian tribes. When, two years later, in 1633, Williams returned
to live at Salem for the purpose of assisting the minister, Mr. Skelton, who was sick, the
rulers of the church at Plymouth granted him a dismissal, but accompanied it with some words
of warning about his "unsettled judgment and inconsistency."[3]

Williams was soon in trouble in Massachusetts. While at Plymouth his interest in the Indians
led him to prepare for the private reading of Bradford a pamphlet which argued that the king
of England had no right to give away the lands of the Indians in America. The pamphlet had
never been published, but reports of its contents reached Boston, and the court of assistants,
following, as usual, the advice of the ministers, pounced upon the author and summoned him
to answer for what it was claimed was a denial of their charter rights.

When Williams appeared for this purpose, in January, 1634, the objections of the court shifted
to some vague phrases in the document which they construed to reflect upon the king. These
expressions were readily explained by Williams, and he was promptly forgiven by the court on
his professing loyalty and taking the usual oath of allegiance to his majesty.[4] Perhaps this
singular behavior on the part of the court is explained by the apprehension generally felt
that Ferdinando Gorges, in England, would succeed in his attempt to vacate the charter of Massachusetts.
If the charter had been successfully called in, Williams's ground of the sufficiency of the
Indian title to lands might have proved useful as a last resort.[5]

Nevertheless, in November, 1634, the authorities were on his track again. The pretext now was
that Williams "taught publicly against the king's patent," and that "he termed the churches
of England antichristian." This revamping of an old charge which had been explained and dropped
was probably due to a change of attitude towards the English government. In May, 1634, the
general court elected the intolerant deputy governor, Thomas Dudley, governor in the place
of Winthrop; and when in July the news of the demand of the Lords Commissioners for Foreign
Plantations for the surrender of the colony charter was received at Boston, the new governor
took steps, as we have seen, to commit the colony to a fight rather than yield compliance.[6]

Nothing, however, resulted from the charges against Williams, and it was not until March, 1635,
that he again excited the wrath of the government. Then his scruples took the shape of objections
to the recent legislation requiring every resident to swear to defend the provincial charter.
Williams declared that the state had no right to demand an oath of an "unregenerate man," for
that "we thereby had communion with a wicked man in the worship of God and caused him to take
the name of God in vain."

Williams was, accordingly, summoned to Boston in April, and subjected to confutation by the
ministers, but positive action was deferred. While the matter remained thus undetermined, the
church at Salem elected him teacher, and this action was construed as a contempt on the part
of both Williams and the Salem church. Accordingly, when the general court met in July, 1635,
Haynes now being governor, it entered an order giving them till next court to make satisfaction
for their conduct. At the same court a petition of the Salem church for some land in Marblehead
Neck was rejected "because they had chosen Mr. Williams their teacher."

Affairs had now drawn to a crisis. The Salem church wrote a letter to all the other churches
protesting against their treatment, and Williams notified his own church that he would not
commune with them unless they declined to commune with the other churches of the colony.

When the general court met in September, Salem was punished with the loss of representation,
and thereupon gave way and submitted. Not so Williams. In October, 1635, he was again "convented,"
and on his refusing, in the presence of all the ministers of the colony, to renounce his opinions,
he was banished from Massachusetts. The time given him to depart was only six weeks, and though
some of the laymen in the church opposed the decree, every clerical member save one approved it.

Liberty to remain till spring was afterwards granted Williams, but he was admonished not to
go about to draw others to his opinions. As Williams was one of those contentious people who
must talk, this inhibition was futile. It is true that he no longer preached in his church,
as the congregation had submitted to the will of those in power. But he conversed in private
with some of his friends, and arranged a plan of establishing a new settlement on the shores
of Narragansett Bay.

When information of this design reached Boston in January, 1636, the authorities, on the plea
that an heretical settlement in the neighborhood might affect the peace of the colony, determined
to get rid of Williams altogether by shipping him to England. An order was sent to him to come
to Boston, which he declined to obey on account of ill-health. Captain Underhill was then sent
to take him by force, but before the doughty captain could arrive, Williams, getting intelligence
of his purpose, sick as he was, left his wife and two infant children and hurried away, and
no one at Salem would give Underhill any information.[7]

Thirty-five years later Williams wrote, "I was sorely tossed for one fourteen weeks, in a bitter
winter season, not knowing what bed or bread did mean." In this extremity he experienced the
benefits of the friendly relations which he had cultivated with the Indians at Plymouth, for
the Pokanokets received him kindly and gave him some land on the Seekonk River.

The long arm of the Massachusetts authorities reached out for him even here. He was soon advised
by his friend, Governor Winslow, of Plymouth, that as his plantation was within the limits
of the Plymouth colony he had better remove to the other side of the river, as his government
was "loath to displease the Bay." So Williams, with five of his friends, who now joined him,
embarked in his canoe and established his settlement in June, 1636, at Providence, where he
was joined by many members of the church of Salem.[8] This was the beginning of Rhode Island,
or, rather, of one of the beginnings of their complex colony.

The religion of the ruling class in Massachusetts, though bitterly hostile to the ritual of
the English church, was a matter of strict regulation--there were rules regarding fast days,
Sabbath attendance, prayer-meetings, apparel, and speech. The wrath of God and eternal punishment
formed the substance of every sermon. In the church at Boston this rigid system found a standard
exponent in the pastor, John Wilson; but the "teacher," John Cotton, a man of far greater ability,
sometimes preached sermons in which he dwelt upon the divine mercy and love. The result was
that the people crowded to hear him, and more persons were converted and added to the church
in Boston in the earlier months of Cotton's residence than in all the other churches in the
colony.[9]

Among the members of Cotton's church was Mrs. Anne Hutchinson, who knew Cotton in England and
had crossed the sea to hear his teachings. After her arrival, in June, 1636, she made herself
very popular by her ministrations "in time of childbirth and other occasions of bodily infirmities."
Soon she ventured to hold open meetings for women, at which the sermons of the ministers furnished
the subject of comment. From a mere critic of the opinions of others Mrs. Hutchinson gradually
presumed to act the part of teacher herself, and her views on the questions of "a covenant
of works" and "a covenant of grace" attracted much attention.[10] The former of these terms
had been used by Protestants to designate the condition of the Catholic church, which imposed
as the condition of salvation penances, confessions, pilgrimages, legacies to the church, etc.;
while the latter expression described the condition of all true Protestant Christians who found
peace in the consciousness of holiness of spirit and faith in Jesus Christ.

Mrs. Hutchinson gave an emotional rendering to the "covenant of grace," and held that the divine
spirit dwelt in every true believer and no demeanor in life could evidence its existence. To
the Massachusetts ministers this doctrine seemed like a claim to inspiration, and struck at
the whole discipline of the church. But what disturbed them more than anything else was the
report that she had singled out two of the whole order, John Cotton and her brother-in-law
John Wheelwright, to praise as walking in "the covenant of grace."[11]

The quarrel began first in the bosom of the Boston church. Wilson, the pastor, resented Mrs.
Hutchinson's preference of Mr. Cotton, the teacher, and began to denounce Mrs. Hutchinson's
opinions. The congregation divided into two factions; on the one side was the pastor, supported
by John Winthrop and a few others, and on the other were Mrs. Hutchinson, young Harry Vane,
then governor, and the large majority of the members. Mr. Cotton was not identified with either
side, but sympathized with the latter. Matters verged to a crisis when the Hutchinsonians announced
their intention of electing Mr. Wheelwright, who had not long since arrived, as a second teacher
in the church.

The election was to take place on Sunday, October 30, 1636; but October 25 the general court
met and the ministers from other parts of the colony came to Boston and held a conference at
which Cotton, Wheelwright, and Wilson were present, and there was a general discussion of all
points in controversy. They agreed that "sanctification" (i.e., a holy deportment) did help
to evidence "justification" (salvation); but there was more or less difference on the question
of the "indwelling of the Holy Ghost." Mr. Wheelwright argued in its favor, but held that the
indwelling referred to did not amount to "a personal union with God," as Mrs. Hutchinson and
Governor Vane contended.

The conference instead of quieting aggravated the difficulty. Five days later, when Mr. Wheelwright's
name was voted upon, Winthrop rose and hotly objected to him on the ground that he held unorthodox
opinions respecting the indwelling of the Holy Ghost and was apt to raise "doubtful disputations."
As a consequence the church would not elect Wheelwright in the face of an objection from so
prominent a member as Winthrop. Next day Winthrop continued his attack, insisting that Wheelwright
must necessarily believe in a "personal union."

At this juncture Governor Harry Vane unfortunately gave to the existing difficulties a political
aspect. Vane was the son of one of the secretaries of state of England. Having taken a religious
turn, he forsook all the honors and preferments of the court and obtained the consent of his
parents to visit Massachusetts. Almost immediately after his arrival, he was elected, in May,
1636, when only twenty-four years of age, governor of the colony, with John Winthrop as deputy
governor. After the quarrel in regard to the election of Wheelwright, Vane, who had become
tired of the distractions in the colony, convened the general court, December 10, 1636, to
tender his resignation upon the half-reason that his private affairs required his presence
in England.

Next day one of the assistants very feelingly regretted the coming loss, especially in view
of threatened attacks from the French and Indians. The remarks took Vane off his guard. Carried
away by his feelings, he burst into tears and protested that, though his outward estate was
really in peril, yet he would not have thought of deserting them at this crisis had he not
felt the inevitable danger of God's judgments upon them for their dissensions. Thereupon the
court, of which a majority were his opponents, declined to allow his departure on the grounds
assigned. Vane saw his mistake and reverted to his private estate. The court then consented
to his departure, and a court of elections was called for December 15 to supply the vacancy
caused by his resignation.

Before this time arrived the religious drama took a new turn. The friends of Mrs. Hutchinson
knew the value of having the head of the government with them, and would not dismiss Vane from
the church, whereupon he withdrew his resignation altogether. Till the next election in May
the colony was more divided than ever. Mr. Wheelwright was appointed to take charge of a church
at Mount Wollaston, but his forced withdrawal from Boston was a source of irritation to his
numerous friends. Mrs. Hutchinson remained and was the storm-centre, while Vane, who now sought
a re-election, was freely accused of subterfuge and deception.

A day or two after December 15 the ministers and the court held a meeting at which very hot
words passed between Governor Vane and Rev. Hugh Peter. Wilson, the pastor of Boston, also
indulged in caustic criticisms directed at Governor Vane and the other friends of Mrs. Hutchinson.
By this speech Wilson gave great offence to his congregation, who would have laid a formal
church censure upon him had not Cotton interfered and in lieu of it gave his fellow-preacher
a good scolding, under the guise of what Winthrop calls "a grave exhortation."

The clergy were very anxious to win over Mr. Cotton, and about a week later held a meeting
at Boston and solemnly catechised Cotton on many abstruse points. The storm of theological
rancor was at its height. Harsh words were hurled about, and by some orthodox ministers Mrs.
Hutchinson and her friends were denounced as Familists, Antinomians, etc., after certain early
sects who cherished the doctrines of private inspiration and had committed many strange offences.
On the other hand, some of Mrs. Hutchinson's friends scornfully referred to the orthodox party
as legalists and antichrists, "who walked in a covenant of works."

Harsh words are only one step removed from harsh measures. The legalists were in a majority
in the general court, and they resolved to retaliate for the treatment Mr. Wilson had received
at the hands of his congregation.[12] At the general court which convened March 9, 1637, Wilson's
sermon was approved and Wheelwright was summoned to answer for alleged "seditious and treasonable
words" that were used by him in a sermon preached in Boston on a recent fast day. This action
brought forth a petition from the church of Boston in Wheelwright's behalf, which the court
declared "presumptious" and rejected. Wheelwright himself was pronounced guilty, and thereupon
a protest was offered by Vane, and a second petition came from Boston, which, like the first,
went unheeded, and only served at a later day to involve those who signed it.

Amid great excitement the legalists carried a resolution to hold the May election at Newtown
(Cambridge) instead of Boston, a partisan move, for Newtown was more subject to their influence
than Boston. At this court in May the turbulence was so great that the parties came near to
blows. Threats resounded on all sides, and Wilson was so carried away with excitement that
he climbed a tree to harangue the multitude. The Vane forces struggled hard, but were badly
defeated, and Winthrop was restored to his former office as governor, while the stern Thomas
Dudley was made deputy governor. Vane and his assistants, Coddington and Dummer, were defeated
and "quite left out," even from the magistracy.[13]

Secure in the possession of power, the legalists now proceeded to suppress the opposing party
altogether. An order was passed commanding that no one should harbor any new arrival for more
than three weeks without leave of the magistrates. This was to prevent any dangerous irruption
of sympathizers with Mrs. Hutchinson from England, and it was applied against a brother of
Mrs. Hutchinson and some others of her friends who arrived not long after.

August 3, 1637, Vane sailed for England, and thenceforward the Hutchinson faction, abandoned
by their great leader, made little resistance. In the latter part of the same month (August
30) a great synod of the ministers was held at Newtown, which was the first thing of the sort
attempted in America, and included all the teaching elders of the colony and some new-comers
from England. This body set to work to lay hold of the heresies which infected the atmosphere
of the colony, and formulated about "eighty opinions," some "blasphemous," but others merely
"erroneous and unsafe." How many of them were really entertained by Mrs. Hutchinson's followers
and how many were merely inferences drawn from their teachings by their opponents it is hard
to say.

When these heresies were all enumerated and compared with the opinions of Cotton and Wheelwright,
only five points of possible heterodoxy on their part appeared. Over these there was a solemn
wrangle for days, till Cotton, shrinking from his position, contrived, through abundant use
of doubtfull expressions, to effect his reconciliation with the dominant party. After a session
of twenty-four days the synod adjourned, and Wheelwright, alone of the ministers, was left
as the scapegoat of the Antinomians, and with him the majority determined to make short work.[14]

At the general court which met November 2, 1637, the transgressions of Wheelwright through
his fast-day sermon were made the basis of operations. For this offence Wheelwright had been
judged guilty more than nine months before, but sentence had been deferred; he was now sentenced
to disfranchisement and banishment. Many of his friends at Boston, including William Aspinwall
and John Coggeshall, delegates to the general court, experienced similar treatment for signing
the petition presented to the court in March, 1637, after the verdict against Wheelwright.[15]

An order was passed for disarming Mrs. Hutchinson's followers, and finally the arch-heretic
herself was sent for and her examination lasted two days. In the dialogue with Winthrop which
began the proceedings, Mrs. Hutchinson had decidedly the best of the controversy; and Winthrop
himself confesses that "she knew when to speak and when to hold her tongue." The evidence failed
wretchedly upon the main charge, which was that Mrs. Hutchinson alleged that all the ministers
in Massachusetts except Mr. Cotton preached "a covenant of works." On the contrary, by her
own evidence and that of Mr. Cotton and Mr. Leverett, it appeared that Mrs. Hutchinson had
said that "they did not preach a covenant of grace as clearly as Mr. Cotton did," which was
probably very true.[16]

Her condemnation was a matter of course, and at the end of two days the court banished her
from the colony; but as it was winter she was committed to the temporary care of Mr. Joseph
Welde, of Roxbury, brother of the Rev. Thomas Welde, who afterwards wrote a rancorous account
of these difficulties, entitled A Short Story. While in his house, Mrs. Hutchinson was subjected
to many exhortations by anxious elders, till her spirits sank under the trial and she made
a retraction. Nevertheless, it was not as full as her tormentors desired, and the added penalty
of dismissal from church was imposed. After her excommunication her spirits revived, "and she
gloried in her condemnation and declared that it was the greatest happiness next to Christ
that ever befell her."

In this affair Winthrop acted as prosecutor and judge. Before the spring had well set in he
sent word to Mrs. Hutchinson to depart from the colony. Accordingly, March 28, 1638, she went
by water to her farm at Mount Wollaston (now Quincy), intending to join Mr. Wheelwright, who
had gone to Piscataqua, in Maine, but she changed her mind and went by land to the settlement
of Roger Williams at Providence, and thence to the island of Aquidneck, where she joined her
husband and other friends.[17]

Such was the so-called Antinomian controversy in Massachusetts, and its ending had a far-reaching
effect upon the fortunes of the colony. The suppression of Mrs. Hutchinson and her friends
produced what Winthrop and the rest evidently desired--peace--a long peace. For fifty years
the commonwealth was free from any great religious agitations; but this condition of quietude,
being purchased at the price of free speech and free conscience, discouraged all literature
except of a theological stamp, and confirmed the aristocratic character of the government.
As one of its mouth-pieces, Rev. Samuel Stone, remarked, New England Congregationalism continued
till the close of the century "a speaking aristocracy in the face of a silent democracy."[18]
The intense practical character of the people saved the colony, which, despite the theocratic
government, maintained a vigorous life in politics, business, and domestic economy. Soc., Collections,
1st series, I., 276.]

[Footnote 9: Winthrop, New England, I., 144.]

[Footnote 10: Adams, Three Episodes of Mass. Hist., I., 339.]

[Footnote 11: Winthrop, New England, I., 239; Hutchinson, Massachusetts Bay, I., 435.]

[Footnote 12: Winthrop, New England, I., 240-255; Mass. Col. Records, I., 185.]

[Footnote 13: Winthrop, New England, I., 256-263.]

[Footnote 14: Winthrop, New England, I., 261-288.]

[Footnote 15: Ibid., 291-296.]

[Footnote 16: Hutchinson, Massachusetts Bay, II., 423-447.]

[Footnote 17: Winthrop, New England, I., 296-312.]

[Footnote 18: Adams, Massachusetts: Its Historians and its History, 57.]

CHAPTER XIV

NARRAGANSETT AND CONNECTICUT SETTLEMENTS

(1635-1637)

The island of Aquidneck, to which Mrs. Hutchinson retired, was secured from Canonicus and Miantonomoh,
the sachems of the Narragansetts, through the good offices of Roger Williams, by John Clarke,
William Coddington, and other leaders of her faction, a short time preceding her banishment,
after a winter spent in Maine, where the climate proved too cold for them.[1] The place of
settlement was at the northeastern corner of the island, and was known first by its Indian
name of Pocasset and afterwards as Portsmouth. The first settlers, nineteen in number, constituted
themselves a body politic and elected William Coddington as executive magistrate, with the
title of chief judge, and William Aspinwall as secretary.[2] Other emigrants swelled the number,
till in 1639 a new settlement at the southern part of the island, called Newport, resulted
through the secession of a part of the settlers headed by Coddington. For more than a year
the two settlements remained separate, but in March, 1640, they were formally united.[3] Settlers
flocked to these parts, and in 1644 the Indian name of Aquidneck was changed to Rhode Island.[4]

Not less flourishing was Roger Williams's settlement of Providence on the main-land. In the
summer of 1640 Patuxet was marked off as a separate township;[5] and in 1643 Samuel Gorton
and others, fleeing from the wrath of Massachusetts, made a settlement called Shawomet, or
Warwick, about twelve miles distant from Providence.

The tendency of these various towns was to combine in a commonwealth, but on account of their
separate origin the process of union was slow. The source of most of their trouble in their
infancy was the grasping policy of Massachusetts. Next to heretics in the bosom of the commonwealth
heretic neighbors were especially abhorrent. When in 1640 the magistrates of Connecticut and
New Haven addressed a joint letter to the general court of Massachusetts, and the citizens
of Aquidneck ventured to join in it, Massachusetts arrogantly excluded the representation of
Aquidneck from their reply as "men not fit to be capitulated withal by us either for themselves
or for the people of the isle where they inhabit."[6] And neither in 1644 nor in 1648 would
Massachusetts listen to the appeal of the Rhode-Islanders to be admitted into the confederacy
of the New England colonies.[7]

The desire of Massachusetts appeared to be to hold the heretics and their new country under
a kind of personal and territorial vassalage, as was interestingly shown in the case of Mrs.
Hutchinson and Samuel Gorton. Despite her banishment and excommunication the church at Boston
seemed to consider it a duty to keep a paternal eye on Mrs. Hutchinson; and not long after
her settlement at Portsmouth sent an embassy to interview her and obtain, if possible, a submission
and profession of repentance.

The bearers of this message met with an apt reception and returned very much disconcerted.
They found Mrs. Hutchinson, and declared that they came as messengers from the church of Boston,
but she replied that she knew only the church of Christ and recognized no such church as "the
church of Boston." Nevertheless, she continued to be annoyed with messages from Boston till,
in order to be quiet and out of reach, she removed to a place very near Hell Gate in the Dutch
settlement, and there, in 1643, she, with most of her family, perished in an Indian attack.[8]

The authority of Massachusetts over the banished was not confined to religious exhortations.
Samuel Gorton, a great friend of Mrs. Hutchinson, was in many respects one of the most interesting
characters in early New England history. This man had a most pertinacious regard for his private
rights, and at Plymouth, Portsmouth, and Providence his career of trouble was very much the
same. But he was not an ordinary law-breaker, and in Providence, in 1641, Gorton and his friends
refused to submit to a distress ordained by the magistrates, for the reason that these magistrates,
having no charter, had no better authority to make laws than any private person.[9]

The next year, 1642, thirteen citizens of Providence petitioned Boston for assistance and protection
against him; and not long after, four of the petitioners submitted their persons and lands
to the authority of Massachusetts.[10] Although to accept this submission was to step beyond
their bounds under the Massachusetts charter, the authorities at Boston, in October, 1642,
gave a formal notice of their intention to maintain the claim of the submissionists.[11] To
this notice Gorton replied, November 20, 1642, in a letter full of abstruse theology and rancorous
invective.

Nevertheless, he and his party left Patuxet and removed to Shawomet, a tract beyond the limits
of Providence, and purchased in January, 1643, from Miantonomoh, the great sachem of the Narragansetts.[12]
Gorton's letter had secured for him the thorough hatred of the authorities in Massachusetts,
and his removal by no means ended their interference. The right of Miantonomoh to make sale
to Gorton was denied by two local sachems; and Massachusetts coming to their support, Gorton
was formally summoned, in September, 1643, to appear before the court of Boston to answer the
complaint of the sachems for trespass.[13] Gorton and his friends returned a contemptuous reply,
and as he continued to deny the right of Massachusetts to interfere, the Boston government
prepared to send an armed force against him.[14]

In the mean time, a terrible fate overtook the friend and ally of Gorton, Miantonomoh, at the
hands of his neighbors in the west, the Mohegans, whose chief, Uncas, attacked one of Miantonomoh's
subordinate chiefs; Miantonomoh accepted the war, was defeated, and captured by Uncas. Gorton
interfered by letter to save his friend, and Uncas referred the question of Miantonomoh's fate
to the federal commissioners at Boston. The elders were clamorous for the death penalty, but
the commissioners admitting that "there was no sufficient ground for us to put him to death,"
agreed to deliver the unhappy chieftain to Uncas, with permission to kill him as soon as he
came within Uncas's jurisdiction. Accordingly, Miantonomoh was slaughtered by his enemy, who
cut out a warm slice from his shoulder and declared it the sweetest morsel he had ever tasted
and that it gave strength to his heart.[15] Thus fell Miantonomoh, the circumstances of whose
death were "not at all creditable to the federal commissioners and their clerical advisers."[16]

Massachusetts sent out an armed force against the Gortonists, and after some resistance the
leaders were captured and brought to Boston. Here Wilson and other ministers urged the death
penalty upon the "blasphemous heretics." But the civil authorities were not prepared to go
so far, and in October, 1643, adopted the alternative of imprisonment. In March, 1644, Gorton
and his friends were liberated, but banished on pain of death from all places claimed to be
within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts.

They departed to Shawomet, but Governor Winthrop forbade them to stay there; and in April,
1644, Gorton and his friends once more sought refuge at Aquidneck.[17] Gorton, having contrived
to reach England, returned in May, 1648, with an order from the Parliamentary commissioners
for plantations, directed to the authorities of Massachusetts, Plymouth, and Connecticut, to
permit him and his friends to reside in peace at Warwick, which they were then permitted to
do.[18] In 1652 Gorton became president of Providence and Warwick.[19]

In December, 1643, the agents of Massachusetts in England obtained from the Parliamentary commissioners
for plantations a grant of all the main-land in Massachusetts Bay; and it appeared for the
moment as if it were all over with the independence of the Rhode Island towns. Fortunately,
Williams was in England at the time, and with indomitable energy he set to work to counteract
the danger.

In less than three months he persuaded the same commissioners to issue, March 14, 1644, a second
instrument[20] incorporating the towns of "Providence Plantations, in the Narragansett Bay
in New England," and (in flat contradiction of the earlier grant to Massachusetts) giving them
"the Tract of Land in the Continent of America called by the name of Narragansett Bay, bordering
Northward and Northeast on the patent of the Massachusetts, East and Southeast on Plymouth
Patent, South on the Ocean, and on the West and Northwest by the Indians called Nahigganeucks,
alias Narregansets--the whole Tract extending about twenty-five English miles unto the Pequot
River and Country." The charter contained no mention of religion or citizenship, though it
gave the inhabitants full power "to rule themselves and such others as shall hereafter inhabit
within any Part of the said Tract, by such a Form of Civil Government, as by voluntary consent
of all, or the greater Parte of them, they shall find most suitable to their Estate and Condition."

Williams returned to America in September, 1644. On account of the unfriendly disposition of
Massachusetts he was compelled, when leaving for England, to take his departure from the Dutch
port of New Amsterdam. Now, like one vindicated in name and character, he landed in Boston,
and, protected by a letter[21] from "divers Lords and others of the Parliament," passed unmolested
through Massachusetts, and reached Providence by the same route which, as a homeless wanderer,
he had pursued eight years before. It is said that at Seekonk he was met by fourteen canoes
filled with people, who escorted him across the water to Providence with shouts of triumph.[22]

Peace and union, however, did not at once flow from the labors of Williams. The hostility of
Massachusetts and Plymouth towards the Rhode-Islanders seemed at first increased; and the principle
of self-government, to which the Rhode Island townships owed their existence, delayed their
confederation. At last, in May, 1647, an assembly of freemen from the four towns of Portsmouth,
Newport, Providence, and Warwick met at Portsmouth, and proceeded to make laws in the name
of the whole body politic, incorporated under the charter. The first president was John Coggeshall;
and Roger Williams and William Coddington were two of the first assistants.

Massachusetts, aided by the Plymouth colony, still continued her machinations, and an ally
was found in Rhode Island itself in the person of William Coddington. In 1650 he went to England
and obtained an order, dated April 3, 1651, for the severance of the island from the main-land
settlements.[23] Fortunately, however, for the preservation of Rhode Island unity, an act of
intemperate bigotry on the part of Massachusetts saved the state from Coddington's interference.

The sect called Anabaptists, or Baptists, opposed to infant baptism, made their appearance
in New England soon after the banishment of Mrs. Hutchinson. Rhode Island became a stronghold
for them, and in 1638 Roger Williams adopted their tenets and was rebaptized.[24] In 1644 a
Baptist church was established at Newport.[25] The same year Massachusetts passed a law decreeing
banishment of all professors of the new opinions.[26] In October, 1650, three prominent Baptists,
John Clarke, Obadiah Holmes, and John Crandall, visited Massachusetts, when they were seized,
whipped, fined, imprisoned, and barely escaped with their lives.[27]

The alarm created in Rhode Island by these proceedings brought the towns once more into a common
policy, and Clarke and Williams were sent to England to undo the work of Coddington. Aided
by the warm friendship of Sir Harry Vane, the efforts of the agents were crowned with success.
Coddington's commission was revoked by an order of council in September, 1652, and the townships
were directed to unite under the charter of 1644.[28] Coddington did not at once submit, and
there was a good deal of dissension in the Rhode Island towns till June, 1654, when Williams
returned from England. Then Coddington yielded,[29] and, August 31, commissioners from the
four towns voted to restore the government constituted seven years before. The consolidation
of Rhode Island was perfected when, in 1658, Massachusetts released her claims to jurisdiction
there.[30]

Liberty of conscience as asserted by Roger Williams did not involve the abrogation of civil
restraint, and when one William Harris disturbed the peace in 1656, by asserting this doctrine
in a pamphlet,[31] Williams, then governor, had a warrant issued for his apprehension. When,
in 1658, Williams retired to private life the possibility of founding a state in which "religious
freedom and civil order could stand together" was fully proved to the world.[32]

Besides the Indian power, as many as six independent jurisdictions existed originally in the
present state of Connecticut. (1) The Dutch fort of "Good Hope," established in 1633, on the
Connecticut River, had jurisdiction over a small area of country. (2) The Plymouth colony owned
some territory on the Connecticut River and built a fort there soon after the Dutch came. (3)
Next was the jurisdiction of Fort Saybrook, the sole evidence of possession on the part of
the holders of a patent from the earl of Warwick, president of the Council for New England,
who claimed to own the whole of Connecticut. (4) A much larger jurisdiction was that of the
Connecticut River towns, settled in 1635-1636, contemporaneously with the banishment of Roger
Williams. (5) New Haven was settled in 1638, in the height of the Antinomian difficulties.
(6) A claim was advanced by the marquis of Hamilton for a tract of land running from the mouth
of the Connecticut River to Narragansett Bay, assigned to him in the division of 1635, but
it did not become a disturbing factor till 1665.

The early relations between the Dutch and English colonies were, as we have seen, characterized
by kindness and good-fellowship. The Dutch advised the Plymouth settlers to remove from their
"present barren quarters," and commended to them the valley of the "Fresh River" (Connecticut),
referring to it as a fine place both for plantation and trade.[33] Afterwards, some Mohegan
Indians visiting Plymouth in 1631 made similar representations. Their chief, Uncas, an able,
unscrupulous, and ambitious savage, made it his great ambition to attain the headship of his
aggressive western neighbors, the Pequots. The only result had been to turn the resentment
of the Pequots against himself; and he sought the protection of the Plymouth government by
encouraging them to plant a settlement on the Connecticut in his own neighborhood.[34]

These persuasions had at length some effect, and in 1632 Edward Winslow, being sent in a bark
to examine the river, reported the country as conforming in every respect to the account given
of it by the Dutch and the Indians.[35] Meanwhile, the Indians, not liking the delay, visited
Boston and tried to induce the authorities there to send out a colony, but, though Governor
Winthrop received them politely, he dismissed them without the hoped-for assistance.[36]

In July, 1633, Bradford and Winslow made a special visit to Boston to discuss the plan of a
joint trading-post, but they did not receive much encouragement. Winthrop and his council suggested
various objections: the impediments to commerce due to the sand-bar at the mouth; the long
continuance of ice in spring, and the multitude of Indians in the neighborhood. But it seems
likely that these allegations were pretexts, since we read in Winthrop's Journal that in September,
1633, a bark was sent from Boston to Connecticut; and John Oldham, with three others, set out
from Watertown overland to explore the river.[37]

Plymouth determined to wait no longer, and in October, 1633, sent a vessel, commanded by William
Holmes, with workmen and the frame of a building for a trading-post. When they arrived in the
river, they were surprised to find other Europeans in possession. The Dutch, aroused from their
dream of security by the growth of the English settlement, made haste in the June previous
to purchase from the Indians twenty acres where Hartford now stands, upon which they built
a fort a short time after. When the vessel bearing the Plymouth traders reached this point
in the river, the Dutch commander, John van Curler, commanded Holmes to stop and strike his
flag. But Holmes, paying little attention to the threats of the Dutchman, continued his voyage
and established a rival post ten miles above, at a place now known as Windsor.[38]

Meanwhile, the ship which Winthrop sent to Connecticut went onward to New Netherland, where
the captain notified Governor Van Twiller, in Winthrop's name, that the English had a royal
grant to the territory about the Connecticut River. It returned to Boston in October, 1633,
and brought a reply from Van Twiller that the Dutch had also a claim under a grant from their
States-General of Holland.[39] In December, 1633, Van Twiller heard of Holmes's trading-post
and despatched an armed force of seventy men to expel the intruders. They appeared before the
fort with colors flying, but finding that Holmes had received reinforcements, and that it would
be impossible to dislodge him without bloodshed, they returned home without molesting him.[40]

The Plymouth settlers were destined to be dispossessed, not by the Dutch, but by their own
countrymen. The people of Massachusetts were now fully aroused, and the news that came to Boston
in the summer of 1634 that the small-pox had practically destroyed the Indians on the river
increased "the hankering" after the coveted territory.[41] The people of Watertown, Dorchester,
and Newtown (Cambridge) had long been restless under the Massachusetts authority, and were
anxious for a change. Dorchester was the residence of Captain Israel Stoughton, and Watertown
the residence of Richard Brown and John Oldham, all three of whom had been under the ban of
the orthodox Puritan church. At Watertown also had sprung up the first decided opposition to
the aristocratic claim of the court of assistants to lay taxes on the people. As for Newtown
(now Cambridge), its inhabitants could not forget that, though selected in the first instance
as the capital of the colony, it had afterwards been discarded for the town of Boston.

In all three towns there was a pressure for arable lands and more or less jealousy among the
ministers. Some dissatisfaction also with the requirement in Massachusetts of church-membership
for the suffrage may have been among the motives for seeking a new home. At the head of the
movement was the Rev. Thomas Hooker, a graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, who had lived
in Holland, and while there had imbibed a greater share of liberality than was to be found
among most of the clergy of Massachusetts.

Hooker arrived in the colony in September, 1633,[42] and in May, 1634, at the first annual
general court after his arrival, his congregation at Newtown petitioned to be permitted to
move to some other quarters within the bounds of Massachusetts.[43] The application was granted,
and messengers were sent to Agawam and Merrimac to look for a suitable location.[44] After
this, when the epidemic on the Connecticut became known, a petition to be permitted to move
out of the Massachusetts jurisdiction was presented to the general court in September, 1634.
This raised a serious debate, and though there can be little doubt that Winthrop and the other
leaders in Massachusetts shrewdly cherished the idea of pre-empting in some way the trade of
the Connecticut, against both the Plymouth people and the Dutch, an emigration such as was
proposed appeared too much like a desertion. The fear of the appointment by the crown of a
governor-general for New England was at its height, and so the application, though it met with
favor from the majority of the deputies, was rejected by the court of assistants.[45]

The popularity of the measure, however, increased mightily, and there is a tradition that in
the winter of 1634-1635 some persons from Watertown went to Connecticut and managed to survive
the winter in a few huts erected at Pyquag, afterwards Wethersfield.[46] The next spring the
Watertown and Dorchester people imitated the Newtown congregation in applying to the general
court for permission to remove. They were more successful, and were given liberty to go to
any place, even outside of Massachusetts, provided they continued under the Massachusetts authority.[47]

Then began a lively movement, and Jonathan Brewster, in a letter written from the Plymouth
fort at Windsor in July, 1635, tells of the daily arrival by land and water of small parties
of these adventurous settlers. Their presence around the fort caused Brewster much uneasiness,
since some began to cast covetous eyes upon the very spot which the Plymouth government had
bought from the Mohegans and held against the Dutch.

As their numbers grew their confidence increased; and finally the men of Dorchester, headed
by Roger Ludlow, one of the richest men in Massachusetts, pretending that the land was theirs
as the "Lord's waste," upon which "the providence of God" had cast them, intruded themselves
into the actual midst of the Plymouth people. The emigrants from Plymouth protested, but were
finally glad to accept a compromise, though, as Bradford remarks, "the unkindness was not soon
forgotten." The Massachusetts settlers held on to fifteen-sixteenths of the land, while they
magnanimously conceded to the Plymouth people one-sixteenth, in addition to their block-houses.[48]

The emigration in the summer of 1635 was preliminary to a much larger exodus in the fall. In
October a company of about sixty men, women, and children, driving before them their cows,
horses, and swine, set out by land and reached the Connecticut "after a tedious and difficult
journey";[49] but the winter set in very early, and the vessels which were to bring their provisions
by water not appearing, they were forced to leave their settlement for fear of famine. They
were fortunate to find a ship frozen up in the river, which they freed from the ice and used
to return to Boston. The other settlers who remained upon the river suffered very much, and
were finally reduced to the necessity of eating acorns and ground-nuts, which they dug out
of the snow. A great number of the cattle perished, and the Dorchester Company "lost near £2000
worth."[50]

These calamities were soon forgotten; and as soon as the first flowers of spring suggested
the end of the dreary winter season, the Newtown people prepared to move. Selling their lands
on the Charles River to the congregation of Rev. Thomas Shepard, the whole body, in June, 1636,
emigrated through the green woods, musical with birds and bright with flowers, under the leadership
of their two eminent ministers, Thomas Hooker and Samuel Stone.[51] Among the lay members of
the community were Stephen Hart, Thomas Bull, and Richard Lord.[52] A little later the churches
of Dorchester and Watertown completed their removal, while a settlement was made by emigrants
from Roxbury under William Pynchon at Agawam, afterwards Springfield, just north of the boundary
between Massachusetts and Connecticut.[53]

At the beginning of the winter of 1636-1637 about eight hundred people were established in
three townships below Springfield. These townships were first called after the towns from which
their inhabitants removed--Newtown, Watertown, and Dorchester; but in February, 1637, their
names were changed to Hartford, Wethersfield, and Windsor. The settlements well illustrate
the general type of New England colonization. The emigration from Massachusetts was not of
individuals, but of organized communities united in allegiance to a church and its pastor.
Carrying provisions and supplies, erecting new villages, as communities they came from England
to Massachusetts, and in that character the people emigrated to Connecticut.

In the mean time, the silence of the Connecticut woods was broken by other visitors. The lands
occupied by the Massachusetts settlers upon the Connecticut lay within a grant executed March
19, 1631, by the earl of Warwick, as president of the Council for New England for "all that
part of New England in America which lies and extends itself from a river there called Narragansett
River, the space of forty leagues upon a straight line near the seashore towards the southwest,
west, and by south, or west, as the coast lieth towards Virginia, accounting three English
miles to the league; and also all and singular the lands and hereditaments whatsoever, lying
and being within the lands aforesaid, north and south in latitude and breadth, and in length
and longitude of and within, all the breadth aforesaid, throughout the main-lands there, from
the western ocean to the south sea." The grantees included Lord Say and Sele, Lord Brooke,
and Sir Richard Saltonstall.[54]

Probably some report of the unauthorized colonies reached them and hastened Saltonstall to
send out a party of twenty men in July, 1635, to plant a settlement on the Connecticut. But
the Dorchester settlers treated them with even less consideration than they had the Plymouth
men. They set upon them and drove them out of the river.[55] Then, in October, 1635, John Winthrop,
Jr., the eldest son of John Winthrop of Massachusetts, came from England with a commission
to be governor of the "river Connecticut in New England" for the space of one year.[56]

He was, however, a governor in theory, and made but one substantial contribution to the permanent
possession of Connecticut by the English. In November, 1635, he erected at the mouth of the
river a fort called after Lord Say and Sele and Lord Brooke--Saybrook--which in the spring
of 1636 he placed under the command of Lyon Gardiner, an expert military engineer, who had
seen much service in the Netherlands.[57] Hardly had the English mounted two cannon on their
slight fortification when a Dutch vessel sent from New Amsterdam on a sudden errand arrived
in the river. Finding themselves anticipated, the Dutch returned home, and the scheme of cutting
off the English settlements on the upper Connecticut from the rest of New England was frustrated.[58]

For a year the towns on the Connecticut, including Springfield, were governed by a commission
issued by the general court of Massachusetts, in concert with John Winthrop, Jr., as a representative
of the patentees.[59] When the year expired the commission was not renewed, but a general court
representing the three towns of Massachusetts and consisting of six assistants and nine delegates,
three for each town, was held at Hartford in May, 1637. They became from this time a self-governing
community under the name of Connecticut, and the union happened just in time to be of much
service in repelling a great danger.

[Footnote 1: Clarke, Ill Newes from New England (Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 4th series,
II., 1-113).]

[Footnote 2: R.I. Col. Records, I., 52.]

[Footnote 3: R.I. Col. Records, I., 87, 100, 108.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., 127. Soc., Collections, 4th series, VI., 579.]

[Footnote 56: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 497.]

[Footnote 57: Winthrop, New England, I., 207.]

[Footnote 58: Brodhead, New York, I., 260.]

[Footnote 59: Mass, Col. Records, I., 170.]

CHAPTER XV

FOUNDING OF CONNECTICUT AND NEW HAVEN

(1637-1652)

The establishment of the new settlements on the Connecticut projected the whites into the immediate
neighborhood of two powerful and warlike Indian nations--the Narragansetts in Rhode Island
and the Pequots in Connecticut. With the first named there existed friendly relations, due
to the politic conduct of Roger Williams, who always treated the Indians kindly. With the latter,
conditions from the first were very threatening.

As early as the summer of 1633, Stone, a reckless ship-captain from Virginia, and eight of
his companions, were slain in the Connecticut River by some Pequots. When called to account
by Governor Winthrop of Massachusetts, the Indians justified themselves on the ground that
Stone was the aggressor. Thereupon Winthrop desisted, and referred the matter to the Virginia
authorities.[1] In 1634, when the settlements were forming on the Connecticut, a fresh irritation
was caused by the course of the emigrants in negotiating for their lands with the Mohegan chiefs
instead of with the Pequots, the lords paramount of the soil.

The Pequots were greatly embarrassed at the time by threatened hostilities with the Narragansetts
and the Dutch, and in November, 1634, they became reduced to the necessity of seeking the alliance
of the Massachusetts colony. That authority inopportunely revived the question of Stone's death
and required the Pequots to deliver annually a heavy tribute of wampum as the price of their
forgiveness and protection.[2] Had the object of the Massachusetts people been to promote bad
feeling, no better method than this could have been adopted.

In July, 1636, John Oldham, who had been appointed collector of the tribute from the Pequots,
was killed off Block Island by some of the Indians of the island who were subject to the Narragansett
tribe.[3] Although the Pequots had nothing whatever to do with this affair, the Massachusetts
government, under Harry Vane, sent a force against them, commanded by John Endicott. After
stopping at Block Island and destroying some Indian houses, he proceeded to the main-land to
make war on the Pequots, but beyond burning some wigwams and seizing some corn he accomplished
very little.

The action of Massachusetts was heartily condemned by the Plymouth colony and the settlers
on the Connecticut, and Gardiner, the commander of the Saybrook fort, bluntly told Endicott
that the proceedings were outrageous and would serve only to bring the Indians "like wasps
about his ears." His prediction came true, and during the winter Gardiner and his few men at
the mouth of the river were repeatedly assailed by parties of Indians, who boasted that "Englishmen
were as easy to kill as mosquitoes."[4]

Danger was now imminent, especially to the infant settlements up the river. For the moment
it seemed as if the English had brought upon themselves the united power of all the Indians
of the country. The Pequots sent messengers to patch up peace with their enemies, the Narragansetts,
and tried to induce them to take up arms against the English. They would have probably succeeded
but for the influence of Roger Williams with the Narragansett chiefs. In this crisis the friendship
of Governor Vane for the banished champion of religious liberty was used to good effect. To
gratify the governor and his council at Boston, Williams, at the risk of his life, sought the
wigwams of Canonicus and Miantonomoh, and "broke to pieces the Pequot negotiations and design."[5]
Instead of accepting the overtures of the Pequots, the Narragansetts sent Miantonomoh and the
two sons of Canonicus to Boston to make an alliance with the whites.[6]

In the spring of 1637 the war burst with fury. Wethersfield was first attacked at the instance
of an Indian who had sold his lands and could not obtain the promised payment. In revenge he
secretly instigated the Pequots to attack the place, and they killed a woman, a child, and
some men, besides some cattle; and took captive two young women, who were preserved by the
squaw of Mononotto, a Pequot sachem, and, through the Dutch, finally restored to their friends.[7]

By May, 1637, when the first general court of Connecticut convened at Hartford, upward of thirty
persons had fallen beneath the tomahawk. The promptest measures were necessary; and without
waiting for the assistance of Massachusetts, whose indiscretion had brought on the war, ninety
men (nearly half the effective force of the colony) were raised,[8] and placed under the command
of Captain John Mason, an officer who had served in the Netherlands under Sir Thomas Fairfax.
The force sailed down the river in three small vessels, and were welcomed at Fort Saybrook
by Lieutenant Gardiner.

The Indian fort was situated in a swamp to the east of the Connecticut on the Mystic River;
but instead of landing at the Pequot River, as he had been ordered, Mason completely deceived
the Indian spies by sailing past it away from the intended prey. Near Point Judith, however,
in the Narragansett country, Mason disembarked his men; and, accompanied by eighty Mohegans
and two hundred Narragansetts, turned on his path and marched by land westward towards the
Pequot country. So secretly and swiftly was this movement executed that the Indian fort was
surrounded and approached within a few feet before the Indians took alarm.[9]

The victory of Mason was a massacre, the most complete in the annals of colonial history. The
English threw firebrands among the wigwams, and in the flames men, women, and children were
roasted to death. Captain Underhill, who was present, wrote that "there were about four hundred
souls in this fort, and not above five of them escaped out of our hands." Only two white men
were killed, though a number received arrow wounds.[10]

Mason, as he went to the Pequot harbor to meet his vessels, met a party of three hundred Indians
half frantic with grief over the destruction of their countrymen, but contented himself with
repelling their attack. Finally, he reached the ships, where he found Captain Patrick and forty
men come from Massachusetts to reinforce him. Placing his sick men on board to be taken back
by water, Mason crossed the Pequot River and marched by land to Fort Saybrook, where they were
"nobly entertained by Lieutenant Gardiner with many great guns," and there they rested the
Sabbath. The next week they returned home.[11]

The remnant of the Pequots collected in another fort to the west of that destroyed by Mason.
Attacked by red men and white men alike, most of them formed the desperate resolve of taking
refuge with the Mohawks across the Hudson. They were pursued by Mason with forty soldiers,
joined by one hundred and twenty from Massachusetts under Captain Israel Stoughton. A party
of three hundred Indians were overtaken and attacked in a swamp near New Haven, and many were
captured or put to death. Sassacus, the Pequot chief, of whom the Narragansetts had such a
dread as to say of him, "Sassacus is all one God; no man can kill him," contrived to reach
the Mohawks, but they cut off his head and sent it as a present to the English.[12]

The destruction of the Pequots as a nation was complete. All the captive men, women, and children
were made slaves, some being kept in New England and others sent to the West Indies,[13] and
there remained at large in Connecticut not over two hundred Pequots. September 21, 1638, a
treaty was negotiated between the Connecticut delegates and the Narragansetts and Mohegans,
by the terms of which the Pequot country became the property of the Connecticut towns, while
one hundred Pequots were given to Uncas, and one hundred to Miantonomoh and Ninigret, his ally,
to be incorporated with their tribes.[14]

So far as the whites of Connecticut were concerned the effect of the war was to remove all
real danger from Indians for a period of forty years. Not till the Indians became trained in
the use of fire-arms were they again matched against the whites on anything like equal terms.
Among the Indian tribes, the result of the Pequot War was to elevate Uncas and his Mohegans
into a position of rivals of Miantonomoh, and his Narragansetts, with the result of the overthrow
and death of Miantonomoh. In the subsequent years war broke out several times, but by the intervention
of the federal commissioners, who bolstered up Uncas, hostilities did not proceed.

On the conclusion of the Pequot War the freemen of the three towns upon the Connecticut convened
at Hartford, January 14, 1639, and adopted "the Fundamental Orders," a constitution which has
been justly pronounced the first written constitution framed by a community, through its own
representatives, as a basis for government. This constitution contained no recognition whatever
of any superior authority in England, and provided[15] that the freemen were to hold two general
meetings a year, at one of which they were to elect the governor and assistants, who, with
four deputies from each town, were to constitute a general court "to make laws or repeal them,
to grant levies, to admit freemen, to dispose of lands undisposed of to several towns or persons,
call the court or magistrate or any other person whatsoever into question for any misdemeanor,
and to deal in any other matter that concerned the good of the commonwealth, except election
of magistrates," which was "to be done by the whole body of freemen."

Till 1645 the deputies voted with the magistrates, but in that year the general court was divided
into two branches as in Massachusetts. In one particular the constitution was more liberal
than the unwritten constitution of Massachusetts: church-membership was not required as a condition
of the suffrage, and yet in the administration of the government the theocracy was all-powerful.
The settlers of Connecticut were Puritans of the strictest sect, and in the preamble of their
constitution they avowed their purpose "to maintain and preserve the liberty and purity of
the gospel of our Lord Jesus, which we now profess, as also the discipline of the churches,
which, according to the truth of the said gospel, is now practised among us." In 1656 the law
of Connecticut required the applicant for the franchise to be of "a peaceable and honest conversation,"
and this was very apt to mean a church-member in practice.

No one but a church-member could be elected governor, and in choosing assistants the vote was
taken upon each assistant in turn, and he had to be voted out before any nomination could be
made.[16] In none of the colonies was the tenure of office more constant or persevering. In
a period of about twenty years Haynes was governor eight times and deputy governor five times,
Hopkins was governor six times and deputy governor five times, while John Winthrop, the younger,
served eighteen years in the chief office.

The Connecticut government thus formed rapidly extended its jurisdiction. Although Springfield
was conceded to Massachusetts the loss was made up by the accession, in 1639, of Fairfield
and Stratford, west of New Haven, and, April, 1644, of Southampton, on Long Island, and about
the same time of Farmington, near Hartford. In 1639 a town had been founded at Fort Saybrook
by George Fenwick, who was one of the Connecticut patentees.[17] In the confusion which ensued
in England Fenwick found himself isolated; and, assuming to himself the ownership of the fort
and the neighboring town, he sold both to Connecticut in 1644, and promised to transfer the
rest of the extensive territory granted to the patentees "if it ever came into his power to
do so."[18] As the Connecticut government was entirely without any legal warrant from the government
of England, this agreement of Fenwick's was deemed of much value, for it gave the colony a
quasi-legal standing.

In 1649 East Hampton, on Long Island, was annexed to the colony, and in 1650 Norwalk was settled.
In 1653 Mattabeseck, on the Connecticut, was named Middletown; and in 1658 Nameaug, at the
mouth of the Pequot River, settled by John Winthrop, Jr., in 1646, became New London. In 1653
Connecticut had twelve towns and seven hundred and seventy-five persons were taxed in the colony.[19]

While Connecticut was thus establishing itself, another colony, called New Haven, controlled
by the desire on the part of its leading men to create a state on a thoroughly theocratic model,
grew up opposite to Long Island. The chief founder of the colony was John Davenport, who had
been a noted minister in London, and with him were associated Theophilus Eaton, Edward Hopkins,
and several other gentlemen of good estates and very religiously inclined. They reached Boston
from England in July, 1637, when the Antinomian quarrel was at its height, and Davenport was
a member of the synod which devoted most of its time to the settlement, or rather the aggravation,
of the Antinomian difficulty.

Owing to Davenport's reputation and the wealth of his principal friends, the authorities of
Massachusetts made every effort to retain them in that colony, and offered them their choice
of a place for settlement. These persuasions failed, and after a nine months' stay Davenport
and his followers moved away, nominally because they desired to divert the thoughts of those
who were plotting for a general governor for New England, but really because there were too
many Antinomians in Massachusetts, and the model republic desired by Davenport could never
be brought about by accepting the position of a subordinate township under the Massachusetts
jurisdiction.[20].

One of the results of the Pequot War was to make known the country west of Fort Saybrook, and
in the fall of 1637 Theophilus Eaton and some others went on a trip to explore for themselves
the coasts and lands in that direction. They were so much pleased with what they saw at "Quinnipiack"
that in March, 1638, the whole company left Boston to take up their residence there, and called
their new settlement New Haven. Soon after their arrival they entered into a "plantation covenant,"
preliminary to a more formal engagement.[21] This agreement pledged the settlers to accept
the teachings of Scripture both as a civil system and religious code.

Having no charter of any kind, they founded their rights to the soil on purchases from the
Indians, of which they made two (November and December, 1638).[22] The next summer they proceeded
to the solemn work of a permanent government. June 4, 1639, all the free planters met in a
barn, and Mr. Davenport preached from the text, "Wisdom hath builded her home; she hath hewn
out her seven pillars." He then proposed a series of resolutions which set forth the purpose
of establishing a state to be conducted strictly according to the rules of Scripture. When
these resolutions were adopted Davenport proposed two others designed to reduce to practice
the theory thus formally approved. It was now declared that only church-members should have
the right of citizenship, and that a committee of twelve should be appointed to choose seven
others who were to be the constitution-makers.[23]

These articles were subscribed by one hundred and thirteen of the people, and after due time
for reflection the twelve men chosen as above elected the "seven pillars," Theophilus Eaton,
Esq., John Davenport, Robert Newman, Matthew Gilbert, Thomas Fugill, John Punderson, and Jeremiah
Dixon, who proceeded in the same solemn and regular manner to reorganize the church and state.
First they set up the church by associating with themselves nine others, and then after another
interval, on October 25, 1639, a court was held at which the sixteen church-members proceeded
to elect Theophilus Eaton as governor for a year and four other persons to aid him as "deputies,"
who were thereupon addressed by Davenport in what was called a charge.

Under the government thus formed a general court of the freemen was held every year for the
election of governor and assistants, and to these officers was confided the entire administration
of affairs. There was no body of statutes till many years later, and during this time the only
restriction on the arbitrary authority of the judges was the rules of the Mosaic law. The body
of the free burgesses was very cautiously enlarged from court to court.

Hardly had the people of New Haven settled themselves in their new government before two other
towns, Guilford, seventeen miles north, and Milford, eleven miles south, sprang up in their
neighborhood. Though practically independent, their constitution was modelled after that of
New Haven.[24] Besides Guilford and Milford another town called Stamford, lying west of the
Connecticut territory and loosely connected with New Haven, was also settled.[25] In the political
isolation of these towns one sees the principle of church independence, as held by Davenport
and his followers.

In April, 1643, apprehension from the Indians, the Dutch, and their neighbor Connecticut caused
a union of these towns with New Haven. The new commonwealth was organized just in time to become
a member of the greater confederation of the colonies founded in May, 1643. It was not, however,
till October 27, 1643, that a general constitution was agreed upon.[26] It confined the suffrage
to church-members and established three courts--the plantation court for small cases, consisting
of "fitt and able" men in each town; the court of magistrates, consisting of the governor,
deputy governor, and three assistants for weighty cases; and the general court, consisting
of the magistrates and two deputies for each of the four towns which were to sit at New Haven
twice a year, make the necessary laws for the confederation, and annually elect the magistrates.
Trial by jury was dispensed with, because no such institution was found in the Mosaic law.

In 1649 Southold, on Long Island, and in 1651 Branford, on the main-land, were admitted as
members of the New Haven confederacy; and in 1656 Greenwich was added. And the seven towns
thus comprehended gave the colony of New Haven the utmost extent it ever obtained.

[Footnote 1: Winthrop, New England, I., 146.]

[Footnote 2: Winthrop, New England, I., 176, 177.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., 225, 226; Gardiner, Pequot Warres (Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 3d series,
III.), 131-160.]

[Footnote 4: Gardiner, Pequot Warres; Winthrop, New England, I., 231-233, 238, 259.]

[Footnote 5: Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 1st series, I., 175.]

[Footnote 6: Winthrop, New England, I., 234-236.]

[Footnote 7: Ibid., 267, 312; Mason, Pequot War (Mass. Hist. For the result, see Baldwin, Early
History of the Ballot in Connecticut (Amer. Hist. Assoc. Papers, IV.), 81; Perry, Historical
Collections of the American Colonial Church, 21; Palfrey, New England, II., 10.]

[Footnote 17: Winthrop, New England, I., 368.]

[Footnote 18: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 507-510.]

[Footnote 19: Palfrey, New England, II., 377.]

[Footnote 20: Winthrop, New England, I., 283, 312, 484.]

[Footnote 21: New Haven Col. Records, I., 12.]

[Footnote 22: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 98.]

[Footnote 23: New Haven Col. Records, I., 11-17.]

[Footnote 24: Trumbull, Connecticut, I., 107; Doyle, English Colonies, II., 196.]

[Footnote 25: New Haven Col. Records, I., 69.]

[Footnote 26: Ibid., 112.]

CHAPTER XVI

NEW HAMPSHIRE AND MAINE

(1653-1658)

After the charter granted to the Council for New England in 1620, Sir Ferdinando Gorges and
Captain John Mason procured, August 10, 1622, a patent for "all that part of y^e maine land
in New England lying vpon y^e Sea Coast betwixt y^e rivers of Merrimack & Sagadahock and to
y^e furthest heads of y^e said Rivers and soe forwards up into the land westward untill threescore
miles be finished from y^e first entrance of the aforesaid rivers and half way over that is
to say to the midst of the said two rivers w^ch bounds and limitts the lands aforesaid togeather
w^th all Islands and Isletts w^th in five leagues distance of y^e premisses and abutting vpon
y^e same or any part or parcell thereoff."[1]

Mason was a London merchant who had seen service as governor of Newfoundland, and was, like
Gorges, "a man of action." His experience made him interested in America, and his interest
in America caused him to be elected a member of the Council for New England, and ultimately
its vice-president.[2] The two leaders persuaded various merchants in. England to join them
in their colonial projects; and in the spring of 1623 they set up two settlements within the
limits of the present state of New Hampshire, and some small stations at Saco Bay, Casco Bay,
and Monhegan Island, in the present state of Maine.

Of the settlements in New Hampshire, one called Piscataqua, at the mouth of the river of that
name, was formed by three Plymouth merchants, Colmer, Sherwell, and Pomeroy, who chose a Scotchman
named David Thompson as their manager. They obtained a grant, October 16, 1622, for an island,
and six thousand acres on the main, near the mouth of Piscataqua; and here Thompson located
in the spring of 1623. He remained about three years, and in 1626 removed thence to an island
in Boston harbor, where he lived as an independent settler.[3] The other plantation, called
Cocheco, was established by two brothers, Edward and William Hilton, fish-mongers of London,
and some Bristol merchants, and was situated on the south side of the Piscataqua about eight
miles from the mouth of the river.[4]

November 7, 1629, Captain Mason obtained a patent[5] from the Council for New England for a
tract extending sixty miles inland and lying between the Merrimac and Piscataqua rivers, being
a part of the territory granted to Gorges and himself in 1622. He called it New Hampshire in
honor of Hampshire, in England, where he had an estate. Seven days later the same grantors
gave to a company of whom Mason and Gorges were the most prominent merchants, a patent for
the province of Laconia, describing it as "bordering on the great lake or lakes or rivers called
Iroquois, a nation of savage people inhabiting into the landward between the rivers Merrimac
and Sagadahoc, lying near about forty-four or forty-five degrees." And in 1631 Gorges, Mason,
and others obtained another grant for twenty thousand acres, which included the settlement
at the mouth of the Piscataqua.

Under these grants Gorges and Mason spent upward of £3000[6] in making discoveries and establishing
factories for salting fish and fur trading; but as very little attention was paid to husbandry
at either of the settlements on the Piscataqua, they dragged out for years a feeble and precarious
existence. At Piscataqua, Walter Neal was governor from 1630 to 1633 and Francis Williams from
1634 to 1642, and the people were distinctly favorable to the Anglican church. At Cocheco,
Captain Thomas Wiggin was governor in 1631; and when, in 1633, the British merchants sold their
share in the plantation to Lord Say and Sele, Lord Brooke, and two other partners, Wiggin remained
governor, and the transfer was followed by the influx of Puritan settlers.[7]

After the Antinomian persecution in Massachusetts some of Mrs. Hutchinson's followers took
refuge at Cocheco, and prominent among them were Captain John Underhill and Rev. John Wheelwright.
Underhill became governor of the town in 1638, and his year of rule is noted for dissensions
occasioned by the ambitious actions of several contentious, immoral ministers. Underhill was
the central figure in the disturbances, but at the next election, in 1639, he was defeated
and Roberts was elected governor of Cocheco. Dissensions continued, however, till in 1640 Francis
Williams, governor of Piscataqua, interfered with an armed force. Underhill returned to Boston,
and by humbly professing repentance for his conduct he was again received into the church there.[8]
He then joined the Dutch, but when Connecticut and New Haven were clamorous for war with the
Dutch in 1653 he plotted against his new master, was imprisoned, and escaped to Rhode Island,[9]
where he received a commission to prey on Dutch commerce.

Meanwhile, Mr. Wheelwright left Cocheco, and in 1638 established southeast of it, at Squamscott
Falls, a small settlement which he and his fellow-colonists called Exeter.[10] In October,
1639, after the manner of the Rhode Island towns, the inhabitants, thirty-five in number, entered
a civil contract to "submit themselves to such godly and Christian lawes as are established
in the realm of England to our best knowledge, and to all other such lawes which shall, upon
good ground, be made and enacted among us according to God." This action was followed in 1641
by their neighbors at Cocheco, where the contract was subscribed by forty-one settlers; and
about the same time, it is supposed, Piscataqua adopted the same system.[11]

This change of fishing and trading stations into regular townships was a marked political advance,
but as yet each town was separate and independent. The next great step was their union under
one government, which was hastened by the action of Massachusetts. In the assertion of her
claim that her northern boundary was a due east and west line three miles north of the most
northerly part of the Merrimac, Massachusetts as early as 1636 built a house upon certain salt
marshes midway between the Merrimac and Piscataqua. Subsequently, when Mr. Wheelwright, in
1638, proposed to extend the township of Exeter in that direction, he was warned off by Governor
Winthrop, and in 1641 Massachusetts settled at the place a colony of emigrants from Norfolk,
in England, and called the town Hampton.

Massachusetts in a few years took an even more decided step. At Cocheco, or Dover, as it was
now called, where the majority of the people were Nonconformists, the desire of support from
Massachusetts caused the policy of submission to receive the approval of both contending parties
in town; and in 1639 the settlers made overtures to Massachusetts for incorporation.[12] The
settlers at Piscataqua, or Strawberry Bank (Portsmouth), being Anglicans, were opposed to incorporation,
but submitted from stress of circumstances. After the death of Captain Mason, in 1635, his
widow declined to keep up the industries established by him, and sent word to his servants
at Strawberry Bank to shift for themselves.[13]

Several years later Lord Say and Sele and Lord Brooke, who were the chief owners of Dover,
obtained from Mason's merchant partners in England the title to Strawberry Bank, and being
in sympathy with Massachusetts they offered, in 1641, to resign to her the jurisdiction of
both places. The proposal was promptly accepted, and two commissioners, Symonds and Bradstreet,
went from Massachusetts to arrange with the inhabitants the terms of incorporation. The towns
were guaranteed their liberties, allowed representation in the Massachusetts general court,
and exempted from the requirements of the Massachusetts constitution that all voters and officers
must be members of the Congregational church.[14]

In 1643 Exeter followed the example of Dover and Strawberry Bank by accepting the protection
of Massachusetts, but it thereby lost its founder. Being under sentence of banishment, Mr.
Wheelwright withdrew to the territory of Sir Ferdinando Gorges, where, having obtained a patent,
he founded the city of Welles. In 1644 he applied to Winthrop, and was permitted on a slight
submission to take charge of the church at Hampton.[15] After several years he visited England,
where he was a favorite of Cromwell. At the Restoration he returned and settled at Salisbury,
in Massachusetts, where he died in 1679. He is perhaps the single bright light in the ecclesiastical
history of early New Hampshire.[16]

The four towns--Dover, Strawberry Bank, Exeter, and Hampton, with Salisbury and Haverhill on
the northern banks of the Merrimac--were, in 1643, made to constitute the county of Norfolk,
one of the four counties into which Massachusetts was then divided.[17]

A similar fortune at a later date overtook the townships to the north of the Piscataqua. The
origin of the name "Maine," applied to the regions of these settlements, has never been satisfactorily
explained. Possibly it was a compliment to Henrietta Maria, the French wife of Charles I.;
more probably the fishermen used it to distinguish the continent from the islands. The term
"Maine" first occurs in the grant to Gorges and Mason, August 22, 1622, which embraced all
the land between the Merrimac and the Sagadahoc, or Kennebec. By Mason's patent in 1629 the
country west of the Piscataqua was called New Hampshire, and after that Maine was a name applied
to the region between the Piscataqua and Kennebec. In more modern times it was extended to
the country beyond, as far as the St. Croix River.

Under Gorges' influence Christopher Levett made a settlement in 1623 on an island in Saco Bay
which has been called "the first regular settlement in Maine."[18] The same year some Plymouth
merchants planted a colony upon Monhegan Island, which had been long a place of general resort
for fishermen.[19] And about the same time Gorges made a settlement on the "maine" at Saco,[20]
under the management of Richard Vines. By two patents, both dated February 12, 1630, this settlement
was divided into two parts--one to Vines and Oldham, one to Lewis and Bonighton--each extending
four miles along by the sea-shore and eight miles along the river-banks. These two tracts formed
the township of Saco, a part of which now bears the name of Biddeford. In 1625 the settlement
of Pemaquid is known to have occurred, but it was not patented till February 14, 1631, by the
Bristol merchants Aldsworth and Elbridge. Next in order of settlement was probably the trading-post
of the Plymouth colony at Kennebec, for which a patent was obtained in 1628.

Many other patents were issued by the Council for New England. Thus, March 13, 1630, John Beauchamp
and Thomas Leverett obtained a grant of ten leagues square, between Muscongus and Penobscot
Bay upon which they set up a factory for trading with the Indians; while the modern city of
Scarboro, on Casco Bay, occupies a tract which was made the subject of two conflicting grants,
one to Richard Bradshaw, November 4, and the other to Robert Trelawney and Moses Goodyear,
December 1, 1631.[21]

Three other patents issued by the Council for New England, and having an important connection
with subsequent history, remain to be mentioned. The first, December, 1631, granted twenty-four
thousand acres ten miles distant from Piscataqua to Ferdinando Gorges (son and heir of John
Gorges), Samuel Maverick, and several others. Many settlers came over, and the first manager
was Colonel Norton, but in a short time he appeared to have been superseded by William Gorges,
nephew of Sir Ferdinando Gorges.[22]

After the division in 1635, by which his title between the Piscataqua and the Kennebec was
affirmed, Sir Ferdinando Gorges erected the coast from Cape Elizabeth, a few miles north of
Saco, as far as Kennebec, into a district called New Somersetshire.[23] Two years later Gorges
obtained from King Charles a royal charter constituting him proprietor of the "province or
county of Maine," with all the rights of a count palatine.[24] The provisions of this charter
are more curious than important. The territory granted, which included Agamenticus, was embraced
between the Piscataqua and Kennebec, and extended inland one hundred and twenty miles. The
lord proprietor had the right to divide his province into counties, appoint all officers, and
to execute martial law. But while his rights were thus extensive, the liberties of the people
were preserved by a provision for a popular assembly to join with him in making laws.

The charter certainly was out of keeping with the conditions of a distant empire inhabited
only by red savages and a few white fishermen; but Gorges' elaborate plan for regulating the
government seemed even more far-fetched. He proposed to have not only a lieutenant-governor,
but a chancellor, a marshal, a treasurer, an admiral, a master of ordnance, and a secretary,
and they were to act as a council of state.[25]

To this wild realm in Norumbega, Thomas Gorges, "a sober and well-disposed young man," nephew
of the lord proprietor, was commissioned in 1640 to be the first governor, and stayed three
years in the colony.[26] Agamenticus (now York) was only a small hamlet, but the lord proprietor
honored it in March, 1652, by naming it Gorgeana, after himself, and incorporating it as a
city. The charter of this first city of the United States is a historical curiosity, since
for a population of about two hundred and fifty inhabitants it provided a territory covering
twenty-one square miles and a body of nearly forty officials.[27]

The second of the three important patents led to the absorption of Maine by the government
of Massachusetts. The claim of Massachusetts to jurisdiction over the settlements in New Hampshire
as readily applied to Maine; and, in addition, the patent granted in June, 1632, by the Council
for New England, to George Way and Thomas Purchas, gave a tract of land along the river "Bishopscot"
or "Pejepscot," better known as the Androscoggin.[28] In 1639 Massachusetts, by buying this
property, secured her first hold on the land within Gorges' patent.[29] The revival in 1643
of another patent, believed to have been abandoned, but with rights conflicting with the patent
of Gorges, both prompted and excused the interference of Massachusetts.

The third great patent was a grant made by the Council for New England, in June, 1630, for
a tract extending from Cape Porpoise to Cape Elizabeth, and hence taking in Gorges' settlement
at Saco.[30] This patent was known as the Lygonian, or "Plough patent," the latter commemorating
the name of the vessel which brought over the first settlers, who after a short time gave up
the settlement and went to Boston in July, 1631. For twelve years the patent was neglected,
but in 1643 the rights of the original patentees were purchased by Alexander Rigby, a prominent
member of Parliament.[31] He sent over as his agent George Cleves, but when he arrived in America
in 1644 his assumption of authority under the Plough patent was naturally resisted by the government
of Sir Ferdinando Gorges.

Cleves set up his government at Casco, and Vines, his rival, organized his at Saco. When Cleves
sent his friend Tucker to Vines with a proposal to settle the controversy, Vines arrested the
envoy and threw him into prison. Both parties appealed to the government of Massachusetts,
who gave them advice to remain quiet. The contention continued, however, and at last the Massachusetts
court of assistants, in June, 1646, consented to refer the case to a jury. Then it appeared
that there were six or eight patentees in the original Plough patent, and Mr. Rigby's agent
could only show an assignment from two. On the other hand, Vines could not produce the royal
patent of Sir Ferdinando Gorges, which was in England, and had only a copy attested by witnesses.
On account of these defects the jury declined to bring in a verdict.

Cleves had better fortune with the parliamentary commissioners for foreign plantations, to
whom he carried the dispute, since before this tribunal the veteran Gorges, who had taken the
king's side, had little chance to be heard. In March, 1646, they decided in favor of Rigby,
and made the Kennebunk River the boundary-line between the two rival proprietors, thus reducing
Gorges' dominions in Maine to only three towns--Gorgeana, Welles, and Kittery, which had grown
up at the mouth of the Piscataqua opposite to Strawberry Bank.[32]

The year following this decision Gorges died, and the province of Maine was left practically
without a head. The settlers wrote to his heirs for instruction, but owing to the confusion
of the times received no reply.[33] In this state of doubt and suspense the general court was,
in 1649, convoked at Welles, when Edward Godfrey was elected governor. Then another address
was prepared and transmitted to England, but it met with no better fortune than the first.
Accordingly, in July, 1649, the settlers of the three townships met at Gorgeana and declared
themselves a body politic. Edward Godfrey was re-elected governor, and a council of five members
were chosen to assist him in the discharge of his duties.[34]

In this state of affairs, deserted by their friends in England, the Maine settlements looked
an inviting prey to Massachusetts. In October, 1651, three commissioners were appointed to
proceed to Kittery to convey the warning of Massachusetts "against any further proceeding by
virtue of their combination or any other interest whatsoever."[35] Godfrey declined to submit,
and in behalf of the general court of the colony addressed a letter, December 5, 1651, to the
Council of State of Great Britain praying a confirmation of the government which the settlers
had erected. Cleves, at the head of the Rigby colony, made common cause with Godfrey and carried
the petition to England, but he met with no success. The death of Rigby rendered Cleves's influence
of no avail against the Massachusetts agent, Edward Winslow, who showed that Cleves's mission
had originated among American royalists.[36]

This opposition, in fact, served only to hasten the action of Massachusetts. In May, 1652,
surveyors were appointed by the general court who traced the stream of the Merrimac as far
north as the parallel of 43° 40' 12".[37] Then, despite the protests of Godfrey, commissioners
were again sent to Kittery, where they opened a court, November 15, and shortly after received
the submission of the inhabitants.[38] They next proceeded to Gorgeana, where the like result
followed, Governor Godfrey reluctantly submitting with the rest. Gorgeana was made a town under
the Massachusetts jurisdiction, by the name of York, and all the country claimed by Massachusetts
beyond the Piscataqua was made into a county of the same name.[39]

Next year, 1653, commissioners were sent to Welles, the remaining town in the Gorges jurisdiction,
to summon to obedience the inhabitants there and at Saco and Cape Porpoise, in the Lygonian
patent, and the conditions made resistance unlikely. Disregarding the Rigby claims,[40] the
settlers in southern Maine accepted the overture of the Massachusetts commissioners. Accordingly,
Welles, Saco, and Cape Porpoise followed the example of Kittery and Gorgeana, and came under
the government of Massachusetts.

The inhabitants north of Saco about Casco Bay remained independent for several years after.
Cleves and other leading inhabitants would not submit, and they tried to secure the interference
of Cromwell. When they failed in this attempt, the people of Casco Bay, in 1658, recognized
the authority of Massachusetts. It was at this time that the plantations at Black Point, at
Spurwink, and Blue Point were united and received the name of Scarboro and those at Casco Bay
received that of Falmouth.[41]

Whatever judgment we may pass on the motives of Massachusetts in thus enlarging her borders
to the farthest limits of settled territory north of Plymouth, it must be acknowledged that
her course inured to the benefit of all parties concerned. The unruly settlements of the north
received in time an orderly government, while each successive addition of territory weakened
the power of the religious aristocracy in Massachusetts by welcoming into the body politic
a new factor of population.

[Footnote 1: Maine Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, VII., 98-107, 143-150.]

[Footnote 7: Winthrop, New England, I., 137.]

[Footnote 8: Ibid., I., 394, II., 33, 49, 76.]

[Footnote 9: Plymouth Col. Records, X., 31, 32, 426.]

[Footnote 10: Winthrop, New England, I., 349.]

[Footnote 11: N.H. Hist. Soc., Collections, 1st series, I., 321, 324.]

[Footnote 12: Winthrop, New England, I., 349, 384.]

[Footnote 13: N.H. Col. Records, I., 113.]

[Footnote 14: Mass. Col. Records, I., 332, 342, II., 29.]

[Footnote 15: Mass. Col. Records, II., 67; Winthrop, New England, II., 195.]

[Footnote 16: Palfrey, New England, I., 594.]

[Footnote 17: Mass. Col. Records, II., 38.]

[Footnote 18: Doyle, English Colonies, II., 215.]

[Footnote 19: Williamson, Maine, I., 226.]

[Footnote 20: Gorges, Description of New England, 79; Doyle, English Colonies, II., 215.]

[Footnote 21: Maine Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, VII., 133-136.]

[Footnote 31: Winthrop, New England, I., 69, II., 186.]

[Footnote 32: Winthrop, New England, II., 186, 313, 390.]

[Footnote 33: Maine Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, VII., 273.]

[Footnote 38: Ibid., 274; Mass. Col. Records, IV., pt. i., 122-126.]

[Footnote 39: Mass. Col. Records, IV., pt. i., 129.]

[Footnote 40: Williamson, Maine, I., 340, 341.]

[Footnote 41: Mass. Col. Records, IV., pt. i., 157-165, 359-360.]

CHAPTER XVII

COLONIAL NEIGHBORS

(1643-1652)

Although the successive English colonies--Virginia, Maryland, Plymouth, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, New Haven, New Hampshire, and Maine--each sprang from separate impulses,
we have seen how one depended upon another and how inextricably their history is connected
each with the other. Even the widely separated southern and northern groups had intercourse
and some transmigration. Thus the history of each colony is a strand in the history of England
in America.

In the same way the history of each colony and of the colonies taken together is interwoven
with that of colonies of other European nations--the Spaniards, French, and Dutch--planted
at first distant from the English settlements, but gradually expanding into dangerous proximity.
It was from a desire to protect themselves against the danger of attack by their foreign neighbors
and to press their territorial claims that the New England group of English colonies afforded
the example of the first American confederation.

Danger to the English colonization came first from the Spaniards, who claimed a monopoly of
the whole of North America by virtue of discovery, the bull of Pope Alexander VI., and prior
settlement. When Sir Francis Drake returned from his expedition in 1580 the Spanish authorities
in demanding the return of the treasure which he took from their colonies in South America
vigorously asserted their pre-emptive rights to the continent. But the English government made
this famous reply--"that prescription without possession availed nothing, and that every nation
had a right by the law of nature to freely navigate those seas and transport colonies to those
parts where the Spaniards do not inhabit."[1]

The most northerly settlement of the Spaniards in 1580 was St. Augustine, in Florida, for,
though in 1524 Vasquez de Ayllon had planted a settlement called San Miguel on James River,
starvation, disease, and Indian tomahawk soon destroyed it. After the defeat of the Spanish
Armada and the subsequent terrible punishment inflicted on the Spanish marine England was less
disposed than ever to listen to the claims of Spain.[2] Reduced in power, the Spaniards substituted
intrigue for warlike measures, and while they entangled King James in its web and hastened
a change in the form of government for Virginia, they did not inflict any permanent injury
upon the colony.

In 1624 England declared war against Spain, and English emigrants invaded the West Indies and
planted colonies at Barbadoes, St. Christopher, Nevis, Montserrat, and other islands adjoining
the Spanish settlements. Till the New England Confederation the chief scene of collision with
the Spanish was the West Indies. In 1635 the Spanish attacked and drove the English from the
Tortugas, and Wormeley, the governor, and many of the inhabitants took refuge in Virginia.[3]

Because of their proximity the danger from the French colonies was far more real. Small fishing-vessels
from Biscay, Brittany, and Normandy were in the habit of visiting the coast of Newfoundland
and adjacent waters from as early as 1504. Jean Denys, of Honfleur, visited the Gulf of St.
Lawrence in 1506, and in 1508 Thomas Aubert sailed eighty leagues up the St. Lawrence River.[4]
In 1518 Baron de Lery attempted to establish a colony on Sable Island, and left there some
cattle and hogs, which multiplied and proved of advantage to later adventurers. Then followed
the great voyage of John Verrazzano, who, in 1524, in a search for the East Indies, sailed
up the coast from thirty-four to fifty-four degrees. In 1534 Jacques Cartier visited Newfoundland
and advanced up the river St. Lawrence till he reached the western part of Anticosti Island.
The next year Cartier came again and ascended the great river many miles, visiting Stadaconé
(Quebec) and Hochelaga (Montreal). At Quebec he encamped with his men, and, after a winter
rendered frightful by the cold and the ravages of the scurvy, he returned in the spring to
St. Malo.[5]

No further attempt was made till a short peace ended the third desperate struggle between Charles
V. and Francis I. In 1540 King Francis created Francis de la Roque, Sieur de Roberval, lord
of Norumbega and viceroy of "Canada, Hochelaga, Saguenay, Newfoundland, Bell Isle, Carpunt,
Labrador, Great Bay, and Baccalaos"; and Cartier was made "captain-general." The expedition
sailed in two divisions, Cartier commanding the first, which left St. Malo May 23, 1541. Again
he passed a winter of gloom and suffering on the St. Lawrence, and in June of the following
year set out to return.

On the coast of Newfoundland he met Roberval, who had charge of the second division of the
ships and two hundred colonists. The viceroy ordered him to return, but Cartier slipped past
him at night and left Roberval to hold the country the best he could. Undismayed, Roberval
pursued his way, entered the St. Lawrence, and established his colony at Quebec. He sent Jean
Alefonse to explore Norumbega, a term applied to the coast of Maine, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland;
and he himself explored the river Saguenay. Lescarbot tells us that in the course of 1543 the
king sent out Cartier, who brought home the wretched survivors of the company.

Then for nearly fifteen years the civil wars in France prevented any further effort at settlement
on the St. Lawrence. Scores of French vessels, however, visited the region of the northwest
for fish and furs, and as soon as the civil wars were ended the work of colonization was taken
up anew. Failure as of old attended the first experiments. In 1598 Marquis de la Roche landed
forty convicts at Sable Island, but after seven years the few survivors received a pardon and
returned home. In 1600 Chauvin and Pontgravé promised to establish a colony on the St. Lawrence,
and obtained from King Henry IV. a grant of the fur trade, but Chauvin died and the undertaking
came to an end.[6]

In 1603 the first systematic effort to found French colonies in America was made. A company
was formed at the head of which was Aymar de Chastes, governor of Dieppe, who sent over Samuel
Champlain. He visited the St. Lawrence, and after careful exploration returned to France with
a valuable cargo of furs. On his arrival he found De Chastes dead, but Pierre du Guast, Sieur
de Monts, a patriotic Huguenot, took up the unfinished work. He received from Henry IV. a patent[7]
"to represent our person as lieutenant-general in the country of Acadia from the fortieth to
the forty-sixth degree," with governmental authority, and the exclusive privileges of traffic
with the Indians.

April 7, 1604, De Monts, accompanied by Champlain, sailed from Havre de Grace, and May 1 came
in sight of Sable Island. They sailed up the Bay of Fundy and entered a harbor on the north
coast of Nova Scotia. Poutrincourt, one of the leading men, was so pleased with the region
that he obtained a grant of it from De Monts, and named it Port Royal (now Annapolis). After
further exploration De Monts planted his settlement on the Isle of St. Croix, at the mouth
of the St. Croix River, where he passed the winter; but half the emigrants died from exposure
and scurvy, and in the spring the colony was transferred to Port Royal. After three years spent
in the country, during which time the coast was explored thoroughly by Champlain and Poutrincourt
as far as Nausett Harbor, the Acadian emigrants went back to France, which they reached in
October, 1607.

The design was not abandoned. Poutrincourt returned in 1610 and re-established his colony at
Port Royal, which he placed in charge of his son. In 1611 two Jesuit priests, Biard and Masse,
came over, under the patronage of Madame de Guercheville, and in 1613 they planted a Jesuit
station at Mount Desert Island, on the coast of Maine.[8]

Champlain did not return to Port Royal, but was employed in another direction. In April, 1608,
De Monts sent out Champlain and Pontgravé to establish a colony on the St. Lawrence and traffic
with the Indians of that region. Of this expedition Champlain was constituted lieutenant-governor,
and he was successful in planting a settlement at Quebec in July, 1608. It was a mere trading-post,
and after twenty years it did not number over one hundred persons. But Champlain looked to
the time when Canada should be a prosperous province of France, and he was tireless and persistent.
Aided by several devout friars of the Franciscan order, he labored hard to Christianize the
Indians and visited lakes Champlain, Nipissing, Huron, and Ontario. While he made the fur trade
of great value to the merchant company in France, he committed the fatal mistake of mixing
up with Indian quarrels. Between the Five Nations of New York and the Hurons and their allies,
the Algonquins of the St. Lawrence, perpetual war prevailed, and Champlain by taking sides
against the former incurred for the French the lasting hatred of those powerful Indians.

The progress of the colony was not satisfactory to Champlain or to the authorities in France,
and in 1627 Cardinal Richelieu dissolved the company which had charge of affairs, and instituted
a new one with himself at its head. In the spring of 1628 he despatched to Canada four armed
vessels and eighteen transports laden with emigrants, stores, and cannon, but war had broken
out between the English and French the year before, and on their way the fleet was intercepted
and the ships and goods confiscated.

The English had not recognized the claims of the French to any part of the North American continent,
and the very year that the Jesuit station was planted at Mount Desert Island Samuel Argall
came twice from Virginia and burned the houses of the intruding French at all of their settlements
in Acadia: Mount Desert Island, Isle de Croix, and Port Royal. The French rebuilt Port Royal,
and at the death of Poutrincourt's son Biencourt, about the year 1623, his possessions and
claims fell to his friend and companion Claude de la Tour.

Meanwhile, in 1621, Sir William Alexander obtained a grant from King James for New Scotland,
being that part of Acadia now comprising the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick;[9]
and he sent over from time to time a few Scotch emigrants. De la Tour and the French submitted,
and English rule seemed firmly established in Acadia when war was declared in 1628. In February,
1629, Alexander received a patent for St. Lawrence River and "fifty leagues of bounds on both
sides thereof," and on both sides of its tributary lakes and rivers as far as the Gulf of California.[10]

After the failure of the expedition sent by Cardinal Richelieu, Alexander and his partners
despatched an English fleet commanded by David Kirke, which appeared before Quebec in July,
1629. Champlain and his small garrison were compelled to surrender, and all New France fell
under English power. Unfortunately for Alexander and Kirke, war between the two nations had
ceased, and the articles of peace provided that all conquests made subsequent to April 24,
1629, should be restored to the former owner. This insured the loss of Quebec and was the forerunner
of other misfortunes. In 1632 a treaty was made at St. Germain by which, despite the protest
of Sir William Alexander and a memorial from the Scottish Parliament, King Charles consented
"to give up and restore all the places occupied in New France, Acadia, and Canada" by his subjects.[11]

In 1632 Champlain returned to his government at Quebec, and with him arrived a number of zealous
Jesuit priests, who began that adventurous career of exploration which, after Champlain's death
in 1635, connected the fame of their order with the great lakes and the Mississippi. The king
of France appointed Chevalier Razilly governor of Acadia, who designated as his lieutenants
Claude de la Tour's son Charles, for the portion west of St. Croix; and Charles de Menou, Sieur
d'Aulnay Charmisé, for the portion to the east.[12] They claimed dominion for France as far
as Cape Cod.

Subsequently the two rivals quarrelled, and in 1641 D'Aulnay obtained an order from the king
deposing De la Tour, but the latter refused obedience and sent an envoy to Boston in November,
1641, to solicit aid. This envoy was kindly treated, and some of the Puritan merchants despatched
a pinnace to trade with De la Tour; but they met with D'Aulnay at Pemaquid, who threatened
to make prize of any vessel which he caught engaged in the fur trade in Acadia.[13]

The Dutch claim to America was comparatively recent, as it was not until 1597 that voyages
were undertaken from Holland to the continent. In 1602 the Dutch East India Company was chartered,
and in 1609 sent out Henry Hudson, an Englishman by birth, to seek a way to India by the northeast.
After sailing to Nova Zembla, where fogs and fields of ice closed against him the strait of
Veigatz, he changed his course for Newfoundland and coasted southward to Chesapeake Bay. Returning
on his path he entered the Hudson in September, 1609, and stayed four weeks exploring the river
and trafficking with the natives.[14]

The reports brought by him to Europe of a newly discovered country abounding in fur-bearing
animals created much interest, and in 1612 some merchants in Holland sent Christiansen and
Blok to the island of Manhattan, where they built a little fort, which, it is stated, Argall
attacked in 1613. Losing his ship by fire, Blok built a yacht of sixteen tons at Manhattan,
and with this small craft was the first explorer (1614) of the Connecticut River. He also visited
Narragansett Bay, and gave to its shores the name of Roode Eiland (now Rhode Island).

After his return home the merchants obtained from the States-General a charter for three years'
monopoly of the trade of New Netherland, as the present New York was now first formally called.
It was defined as extending between New France and Virginia, from the fortieth to the forty-fifth
degree of north latitude.[15] After this New Netherland continued to be resorted to by Dutch
traders, though no regular settlement was formed for some years.

In 1619 Thomas Dermer visited the Hudson and brought news to England of the operations of the
Dutch and the value of the fur trade. Thereupon Captain Samuel Argall, with many English planters,
prepared to make a settlement on the Hudson, and when the Dutch government, in June, 1621,
chartered the Dutch West India Company, the English court, on Argall's complaint, protested
against Dutch intrusion within what was considered the limits of Virginia. The States-General
at first evaded a reply, but finally declared that they had never authorized any settlement
on the Hudson.[16] The charter,[17] in fact, gave the company only an exclusive right to trade
for twenty-four years on the coasts of Africa and America.

Nevertheless, the company proceeded to send over, in 1622, a number of French Walloons, who
constituted the first Dutch colony in America. One party, under the command of Captain Cornelius
Jacobson May, the first Dutch governor, sailed to the South, or Delaware River, where, four
miles below the present Philadelphia, they erected a fort called Nassau; and another party
under Adrian Joris went up the Hudson, and on the site of Albany built Fort Orange. Peter Minuit
succeeded May in 1626, and bought from the Indians the whole of Manhattan Island, and organized
a government with an advisory council.

The population of New Netherland was only two hundred, and though trade was brisk there was
little agriculture. The company met this difficulty by obtaining a new charter and seeking
to promote emigration by dividing up the country among some great patroons: Samuel Godyn, Killiaen
van Renssalaer, Michael Pauw, David Pieterson de Vries, and other rich men. In 1631 De Vries
settled Swaanendael, on the South River, as the Dutch called the Delaware; but in a few months
the Indians attacked the place and massacred the settlers.[18] Soon the patroons became rivals
of the West India Company in the fur trade, and in 1632 Minuit, who favored them, was recalled
and Wouter van Twiller was made governor. His accession marks the first real clash between
the rival claims of the Dutch and English.[19]

In 1632 Lord Baltimore obtained a patent for Maryland which included all the south side of
Delaware Bay and river; and a month later Sir Edmund Plowden obtained a grant from the English
king for "Long Isle and also forty leagues square of the adjoining continent," including the
very site of Manhattan.[20] In April, 1633, Jacob Eelkens, in command of an English vessel,
forced his way past Fort Amsterdam, on Manhattan Island, and traded with the Indians, until
the incompetent Van Twiller at length stripped him of his goods and drove him from the river.[21]
The same year Van Twiller, as we have seen, planted a fort near the site of the present city
of Hartford, which served as the seed of future troubles.

In 1634 Captain Thomas Young visited the Delaware and lorded it over the Dutch vessels which
he found in the river.[22] Then in 1635, while settlers from Massachusetts poured into Connecticut,
and the Council for New England, preliminary to its dissolution, assigned Long Island, despite
the Dutch claim, to Sir William Alexander, men came from Virginia to Delaware Bay and seized
Fort Nassau, then abandoned by the Dutch; but Van Twiller soon drove them away.[23] Thus step
by step English progress encroached upon the territories of the Dutch.

In 1638 Van Twiller was recalled and William Kieft was sent over. He had to deal with Swedes
as well as English, for in 1626 King Gustavus Adolphus was persuaded by Usselinx, an Amsterdam
merchant, to form the Swedish West India Company, and after his death Oxenstierna, his prime-minister,
renewed the scheme. In 1638 he sent out a Swedish expedition under Peter Minuit, the late governor
of New Netherland, who established a fort on the Delaware near the present Wilmington, and
called it "Christina," and the Swedes paid no attention to the protest of Governor Kieft.[24]

In 1640 a party of English settlers from New Haven obtained deeds to the soil on Long Island
from Farrett, agent of Sir William Alexander, and settled at Southold; and another party from
Massachusetts, more daring still, settled at Schouts Bay, almost opposite to Manhattan. When
a force of Dutch troops was sent against them they retired to the east end of the island and
settled Southampton. A more adventuresome proceeding was attempted in 1641 when another party
from New Haven took the Dutch in the flank by settling on the Delaware. Dutch and Swedes united
to drive the intruders away. As if these were not troubles enough, Kieft, in 1642, provoked
war with the Indians all along the Hudson. Bourne, Spain in America, chap. x.]

[Footnote 6: Parkman, Pioneers of France in the New World, 213, 218.]

[Footnote 7: Maine Hist. Rel. to Col. Hist., III., 6-8.]

[Footnote 17: Maine Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, VII., 53-56.]

[Footnote 18: N.Y. Hist. Soc., Collections, 4th series, IX., 125-128.]

[Footnote 23: N.Y. Hist. Soc., Collections, 2d series, III., 77.]

[Footnote 24: Winsor, Narr. and Crit. Hist., IV., 443-452.]

CHAPTER XVIII

THE NEW ENGLAND CONFEDERATION

(1643-1654)

These Dutch settlements brought about a political union of the New England colonies, although
the first cause of the New England confederation was the Indian tribes who lay between the
Dutch and the English. In August, 1637, during the war with the Pequots, some of the Connecticut
magistrates and ministers suggested to the authorities at Boston the expediency of such a measure.
The next year Massachusetts submitted a plan of union, but Connecticut demurred because it
permitted a mere majority of the federal commissioners to decide questions. Thereupon Massachusetts
injected the boundary question into the discussions, and proposed an article not relished by
Connecticut, that the Pequot River should be the line between the two jurisdictions.[1] Thus
the matter lay in an unsettled state till the next year, when jealousy of the Dutch stimulated
renewed action.

In 1639 John Haynes, of Connecticut, and Rev. Thomas Hooker came to Boston, and again the plan
of a confederation was discussed, but Plymouth and Massachusetts quarrelled over their boundary-line,
and the desirable event was once more postponed. Nearly three more years passed, and the founding
of a confederacy was still delayed. Then, at a general court held at Boston, September 27,
1642, letters from Connecticut were read "certifying us that the Indians all over the country
had combined themselves to cut off all the English."

At this time the war between De la Tour and D'Aulnay was at its height, and the Dutch complaints
added to the general alarm. Thus the Connecticut proposition for a league received a more favorable
consideration and was referred to a committee "to consider" after the court. At the next general
court which met in Boston, May 10, 1643, a compact of confederation in writing was duly signed
by commissioners from Plymouth, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Haven.[2] The settlement
of Gorges and Mason at Piscataqua and the plantations about Narragansett Bay were denied admission
into the confederacy--the former "because they ran a different course from us both in their
ministry and administration,"[3] and the latter because they were regarded as "tumultuous"
and "schismatic."

After a preamble setting forth that "we live encompassed with people of several nations and
strange languages," that "the savages have of late combined themselves against us," and that
"the sad distractions in England prevent the hope of advice and protection," the document states
that the contracting parties' object was to maintain "a firm and perpetual league of friendship
and amity, for offence and defence, mutual advice and succor upon all just occasions both for
preserving and propagating the truth and liberties of the gospel, and for their own mutual
safety and walfare." It then declared the name of the new confederation to be "the United Colonies
of New England," and in ten articles set out the organization and powers of the federal government.
The management was placed in the hands of eight commissioners, two for each colony, "all in
church-fellowship with us," who were to hold an annual meeting in each of the colonies by rotation,
and to have power by a vote of six "to determine all affairs of war or peace, leagues, aids,
charges, and number of men for war, division of spoils, or whatever is gotten by conquest,"
the admission of new confederates, etc. All public charges were to be paid by contributions
levied on the colonies proportioned to the number of inhabitants in each colony between sixteen
and sixty; and for this purpose a census was to be taken at stated times by the commissioners.
In domestic affairs the federal government was not to interfere, but each colony was guaranteed
the integrity of its territory and local jurisdiction.

Two defects were apparent in this constitution: the federal government had no authority to
act directly upon individuals, and thus it had no coercive power; the equal number of votes
allowed the members of the confederation in the federal council was a standing contradiction
of the measure of contribution to the burdens of government. The confederacy contained a population
of about twenty-three thousand five hundred souls, of which number fifteen thousand may be
assigned to Massachusetts, three thousand each to Connecticut and Plymouth, and two thousand
five hundred to New Haven. Massachusetts, with two out of eight commissioners, possessed a
population greater than that of the other three colonies combined.

There was really no Indian combination in 1643 against the colonists, but the rivalry between
the Narragansetts and the Mohegans gave grounds for uneasiness. After the death of Miantonomoh,
under the circumstances already related, the fear of an Indian attack was temporarily removed.
But the Narragansetts were grief-stricken over the loss of their chieftain and thought only
of revenge upon the hated Uncas and his Indians, at whose door they laid all the blame. To
give opportunity for intended operations, they made Gorton and others intermediaries for a
complete cession of their country to the king of England in April, 1644. Then, when summoned
by the general court of Massachusetts to Boston, Canonicus and Pessacus, the two leading chiefs,
pleaded the king's jurisdiction and declined to appear.[4] Two envoys sent by the general court
in May, 1644, to the wigwam of Canonicus, were compelled to stay out in the rain for two hours
before being admitted, and Pessacus, instead of giving them satisfaction, persisted in his
threat of hostilities against Uncas, agreeing only not to attack Uncas "till after next planting-time,"
nor then till after due notice given to the English.[5]

The truce did not restrain the Narragansetts, and in the spring of 1645 they attacked the Mohegans
and defeated them, and thereupon the federal commissioners, in July, 1645, met at Boston, and
upon the refusal of the Narragansetts to make peace with Uncas they made preparations for war.
A force of three hundred men was raised, one hundred and ninety from Massachusetts, forty each
from Plymouth and Connecticut, and thirty from New Haven.

Upon the question of appointment of a commander-in-chief colonial independence came in conflict
with federal supremacy. In 1637 Massachusetts was the champion of the principle that all questions
should be decided by a simple majority vote of the commissioners; but now the Massachusetts
general court asserted that no appointment of a commander should be valid without their confirmation.
The federal commissioners stood stoutly for their rights, and the issue was evaded for a time
by the appointment of Major Gibbons, who was a citizen of Massachusetts.

The report of these warlike preparations brought the Narragansetts to terms; but uneasiness
still continued, and the subsequent years, though free from bloodshed, were full of rumors
and reports of hostilities, compelling frequently the interference of the commissioners in
behalf of their friend Uncas. In all these troubles[6] the question is not so much the propriety
of the particular measures of the federal commissioners as their conduct in making the confederation
a party to the disputes of the Indians among themselves. The time finally came when Uncas,
"the friend of the white man," was regarded by his former admirers as a hopeless marplot and
intriguer.

More commendable were the services of the federal commissioners with the Indians in another
particular. One of the professed designs of the charter of Massachusetts was to Christianize
the heathen savages, but more than twelve years elapsed after the coming of Winthrop and his
colonists before New England was the scene of anything like missionary work. Then the first
mission was established in 1643 by Thomas Mayhew at the island of Martha's Vineyard, which
was not included in any of the New England governments and was under the jurisdiction of Sir
William Alexander. In 1651 Mayhew reported that one hundred and ninety-nine men, women, and
children of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket were "worshippers of the great and ever living God."

His example was followed by John Eliot, the minister of Roxbury, in Massachusetts, who learned
to speak the Indian tongue, and in 1646 preached to the Indians near Watertown. The Massachusetts
general court a week later endorsed the purposes of Eliot by enacting that the church should
take care to send two ministers among the Indians every year to make known to them by the help
of an interpreter "the heavenly counsel of God." In four years two colonies of Indians were
established, one at Nonantum and the other at Concord. But the converts were still under the
influence of their sagamores, who were hostile to Eliot's schemes, and in 1651 he removed his
Indians to Natick, on the Charles River, where they might be free from all heathenish subjection.

In the mean time, the intelligence of what was taking place was communicated to Edward Winslow,
the agent of the colony in England. He brought the matter to the attention of Parliament, and
July 19, 1649, an ordinance was passed incorporating "the society for the promoting and propagating
of the gospel of Jesus Christ in New England." This society selected the federal commissioners
as the managers of the fund which flowed into them from persons charitably inclined, and in
seven years the sums which were remitted to New England amounted to more than £1700. The commissioners
laid out the money in paying Eliot and Mayhew and other teachers, in printing catechisms in
the Indian language, and providing the Indian converts with implements of labor. By 1674 the
number of these "praying Indians," as they were called, was estimated at four thousand.[7]

The commissioners also rendered many services in the domestic affairs of the colonies. In order
to secure the claim which she had advanced in 1637 to the Pequot River as her southern boundary,
Massachusetts in 1644 authorized John Winthrop, Jr., to plant a colony on Pequot Bay at a spot
called Nameaug, now New London.[8] The Connecticut government protested against the authority
of Massachusetts, and in 1647 the commissioners decided that "the jurisdiction of the plantation
doth and ought to belong to Connecticut."[9] This decision, however, only settled the ownership
of a particular place, and the exact southern and northern boundaries of Connecticut remained
for several years a matter of contention.

In another matter of internal interest the influence of the confederacy was manifested. Among
other considerations for the cession of the Saybrook fort, Fenwick was promised the proceeds
for the term of ten years of a duty on all corn, biscuit, beaver, and cattle exported from
the Connecticut River.[10] March 4, 1645, the general court of Connecticut passed an act to
carry out their promise; but as the law affected the trade of Springfield on the upper waters
of the Connecticut River as much as that of the Connecticut towns, Springfield protested, and
appealed to the protection of Massachusetts. Thereupon the general court of that colony lodged
a vigorous complaint with the federal commissioners, and the cause was patiently heard by them
at two separate meetings. Massachusetts had, doubtless, the right on her side, but the Connecticut
contention rested on what was international usage at the time.

