The disputation, while strengthening the hands of Petri, caused a momentary shout of opposition
to the king. The cry arose that he was introducing strange and novel faiths. His faiths perhaps
were novel, but they were not strange. The strangest feature in the matter was the position
taken by the king. By this time, there can be no question, he was at heart with Luther; yet,
judging from his own assertions, he was a firm defender of the Church. The king's duplicity,
of course, is easily explained. He wished to rob the Roman Catholics of their power without
incurring their ill-will. He intended to reform their doctrines, and at the same time spread
abroad the notion that these doctrines had reformed themselves. Some time before the disputation,
he had written to the north of Sweden to explain his views. "Dear friends," he courteously
began, "we hear that numerous reports have spread among you to the effect that we have countenanced
certain novel doctrines taught by Luther. No one can prove, however, that we have countenanced
aught except the teaching of God and his Apostles. For the faith given us by our fathers we
shall battle so long as life remains, and die, as our fathers died before us, in the faith.
The seditious libels spread by Sunnanväder and his followers have occasioned all the injury
that has fallen in days gone by upon this kingdom, as every reasonable man must know. Doubtless
there are among the clergy as well as among the people many who are conscious of what they
ought to do. But certain monks and priests have raised this cry against us, chiefly for the
reason that we have denounced their ambitious projects and their unrighteous dealings toward
the people. If any person owes them anything, they withhold from him the sacrament, and thus
wring his money from him against the law of God.... Again, if a man kills a bird or catches
a fish on the Sabbath day, they fine him in behalf of their bishop. This they have no right
to do unless the act is committed during church service, when the culprit should have been
listening to the Word of God. Again, whenever a priest has wronged a layman, the layman is
practically without a remedy. He ought, however, to have the same remedy as the priest. Again,
if a layman kills a priest, he is at once put under the ban, whereas if a priest kills a layman,
he is not put under the ban. Yet God has forbidden priests to kill laymen as well as laymen
to kill priests, making no difference in fact between them, but commanding all men to be affectionate
and peaceable toward one another. Finally, if a priest dies intestate, his heirs lose their
inheritance and his property is taken by the bishop. Even the crown estates, which they know
we are bounden by our oath of office to protect, they have confiscated, and now they proclaim
that we have introduced new faiths and doctrines taught by Luther. All we have done, as you
already know, is to command them not to carry on their ambitious practices to the ruin of our
realm." This explanation did not wholly calm the peasants; and when they found Gustavus holding
another contest over their religious tenets, their suspicions were aroused again. Gustavus
determined, therefore, that he must take some drastic measure to prevent revolt. What he needed
was a vote of all the people to support his views. So he issued a proclamation in January,
1527, informing the whole country that, since he was reported to be introducing new beliefs,
he should soon summon a general diet to discuss the more important matters of belief, particularly
the overweening power of the pope.[150]

To this serious step Gustavus was impelled by several things. In the first place he desired
to fortify himself against the pope. During the last three years the pope had practically been
without authority in Sweden. Gustavus had selected as his bishops men whose actions he was
able to control, and the pope had deprived himself of even the semblance of authority by refusing
to confirm them. However, the nominal supremacy of Rome was not yet shaken off; and until it
was so, there was constant danger that her actual supremacy would revive. The monarch's chief
anxiety concerned Archbishop Magni. That prelate owed his appointment mainly to the pliability
of his temper, and to the assumption on the monarch's part that he would prove a ready tool.
In this assumption Gustavus had soon discovered he was wrong. Magni, though of pliant temper,
was a thorough Papist, and, as time went on, displayed a growing tendency to oppose the king.
In consequence he gradually fell from favor, till he became an object of open distrust. The
earliest evidence of this feeling appeared in 1525, when Magni, as one of the envoys sent to
Lubeck, was warned to take no action without the acquiescence of the other envoys. This mandate
was issued from a fear lest Magni should encourage Lubeck to raise her voice against the spread
of Lutheranism in the Swedish kingdom. How far this fear was justified, it is difficult to
say. As Lubeck had not yet embraced the Reformation, she doubtless sympathized in some degree
with Magni, but there is not the slightest evidence that Magni was unfaithful to the king.
In February, of the following year, when Magni was starting for the Norwegian frontier to administer
the rite of confirmation, he wrote the archbishop of Trondhem that he would like to meet him
and discuss the dangerous condition of the Church. Gustavus, hearing of the contents of this
letter, was aroused again. The archbishop of Trondhem had given offence by harboring Swedish
refugees, and Magni's simple letter caused the monarch to believe that the two archbishops
were, as he expressed it, "in secret negotiation." Some two months later, Gustavus being in
the archbishop's palace, a stately feast was given in his honor. This only added to the feud.
The monarch was incensed to find that Magni was capable of such display. Hot words ensued between
them, and finally the archbishop was arrested and conveyed to Stockholm. There he was charged
with conspiracy against the king. Certain letters that had passed between him and the Roman
Catholics of Germany were produced; and though they showed no evidence of fraud, the archbishop
was remanded to his prison to await the further disposition of his case. Never was greater
injustice done a worthy man. There was not a scintilla of evidence against him. He was a generous,
kindly, single-minded prelate, and the only reason for this cruelty was that he had no sympathy
with the methods of the king. After some months in prison he was released upon the pretext
of an embassy to Poland. Nobody could be ignorant what this pretext meant. He was to be an
exile from his native land. He sailed from Sweden in the autumn of 1526, never to return. By
such ignoble practices the monarch cleared his path.[151]

After the banishment of Archbishop Magni, Gustavus gave free rein to his ambition. The principal
object of his greed was still the monasteries and convents. The practice of quartering his
soldiers in them was by this time accepted as a necessary evil. But in August, 1526, he raised
a new pretension. The provost of the Åbo Chapter having died, its members had chosen another
in his stead, and had begun to distribute his property in accordance with a will that he had
left, when a letter came from Sweden ordering them to stop. After expressing surprise that
they should have chosen a provost without consulting him, Gustavus added: "We learn that your
last provost left a large amount of property by his testament to those persons to whom he wished
to have it go. It is clear, however, that it would do more good if given to the public, since
the kingdom is in a state of distress brought on by the long-protracted war against King Christiern.
We therefore command you, after distributing the legacies given to his family and friends as
well as the poor, to hand the balance over to us to pay the nation's debt." Against this high-handed
measure there was no redress. It was but part of a policy by this time well established in
the monarch's mind. Some six months later, the burgomaster and Council of Arboga wrote Gustavus
that affairs in their monastery were managed in a very slipshod way; that when a brother died,
the prior took possession of his estate, and the monastery itself got nothing for it. To prevent
this state of things, Gustavus sent an officer to take up quarters in the monastery and send
him a list of all the property he could find. "You will discover also," he declared, "some
chests belonging to foreign monks. Take a look at them, and see what they contain." This letter,
it should be remembered, was not intended for the public eye. Gustavus was careful to keep
his actions dark, and, the monks of Arboga being accused of secreting certain treasures, the
royal officer was instructed to make a diligent investigation, but to lay his hands on nothing
until he received more positive commands. He was careful, also, that his practice of confiscating
Church property should not be taken as an excuse for private individuals to do the same. In
one case, where such a thing was done, he denounced the perpetrator in the strongest terms.
Moreover, when the monasteries began to murmur against the soldiers quartered with them, he
sent out an open letter to them, declaring that he had instructed his officers to be as courteous
to them as they could. It may be noted, however, that he showed no signs of mitigating their
distress.[152]

Early in 1527 Gustavus determined that the crucial moment for the Reformation had arrived.
Dalarne, as usual, was in a state of insurrection, and every effort which he made to check
the Church called forth a storm of imprecations from the northern provinces. The tax imposed
upon the Dalesmen being still withheld, it was particularly necessary that the insurrection
should be stayed. In February, therefore, Gustavus wrote a letter to appease the people. "Dear
friends," began the monarch, "we understand a report is spread among the people that some new
creed is preached here to the dishonor of God, the Virgin, and the saints. Before God we declare
this rumor to be false. Nothing is here preached or taught except the pure word of God, as
given by Christ to his Apostles.... It is indeed true, that denunciations have been heard in
public against the vice and avarice of the clergy, and against the flagrant abuse of their
privileges. They have oppressed the ignorant with excommunication, withholding of the sacrament,
and all sorts of impositions. Wholly without authority from Holy Writ, they have imposed their
Romish indulgences upon you, carrying vast treasures of gold and silver out of the kingdom,
thus weakening our realm and impoverishing our people, while the high prelates have grown rich
and haughty toward the lords and princes from whom these very privileges were derived.... We
therefore urge you all by your sworn allegiance, not to be deceived by false rumors about us,
doubting nothing that we shall move heaven and earth to promote your interests. And we beg
you earnestly to believe that we are as good a Christian as any living man, and shall do our
utmost to promote the Christian faith." Every one could see that this assertion was intended
to persuade the Dalesmen to pay the newly levied tax. As the effort proved without avail, the
monarch called a general diet to be held on the 9th of June, the object being, as he declared,
to put an end to the dissension that had arisen in divine affairs. Later, the diet was postponed
to June 15, and, to appease the Dalesmen, was ordered to be held in Vesterås, a city that was
near their province.[153]

Before the day appointed for the diet, a long list of their grievances was drawn up by the
Dalesmen and sent to Stockholm to the king. To these complaints Gustavus issued a reply, in
which he strove to pacify the malcontents and thus obtain their presence at the diet. The complaints
themselves are somewhat trivial, but the monarch's answer is important as an instance of his
peculiar power in avoiding discord without directly compromising his affairs. To their murmur
at the abolition of the mint in Vesterås, and the scarcity of coins of small denominations,
he answered that the mint was closed because the mines adjacent were no longer worked; so soon
as the mines in question should be opened he would reinstate the mint, and moreover he would
please them by issuing small coins. As to the complaint of heavy taxes, the Cabinet were responsible
for that. He would say, however, that he did not contemplate any further tax. The practice
of billeting in the towns and monasteries was made necessary by the paucity of land about the
royal castles, but this necessity he hoped would not exist much longer. The charge of reducing
the number of monasteries and churches he denied. He had not closed a single monastery except
Gripsholm, which was the property of his father and had been made a monastery against his father's
will. To the ludicrous charge that he was planning to restore Archbishop Trolle, he made a
flat denial. One thing, he said, was certain,--those who favored Trolle favored Christiern;
he could scarce be charged with that. Finally, the Dalesmen complained of Luther's teachings,
particularly the doctrines that were taught in Stockholm and the practice of allowing Swedish
chants and hymns. To this he could say only that he had ordered nothing to be preached except
the Word of God; and as to Swedish chants, he could see no reason for punishing in Stockholm
what was permitted in all other portions of the kingdom; it was certainly better to praise
God in a language that everybody understood than in Latin, which no one understood. "I wonder
much," he said in closing, "that the Dalesmen trouble themselves concerning matters of which
they have no knowledge. It would be wiser to leave the discussion of these things to priests
and scholars.... I do not believe, however, that these complaints are made of your own free
will, but rather at the instigation of certain priests and monks, whose desire is to keep the
truth unknown." This sentence with which he closed contains the pith of the entire letter.
The monarch felt that in the coming contest the opposing parties were to be the Church and
State. He endeavored, therefore, by every means to win the Dalesmen to his side. Letters were
despatched to Dalarne from various portions of the realm, to instruct the peasants that if
they persisted in their opposition to Gustavus, they would have to fight alone. The Dalesmen,
however, were no more influenced by threats than by persuasion. They stood firm in their determination;
and when the diet assembled on the 24th of June, no delegates from Dalarne appeared.[154]

The Diet of Vesterås is the bulwark of the Swedish Reformation. It is the first embodiment
in the Swedish law of the reforms of Martin Luther. Gustavus had been making ready for this
diet ever since the day of his election, and at last the opportunity was ripe. One by one the
prelates that were hostile to his views had been removed; and Brask, the only man of strength
that still held out against him, was tottering to the grave. His enemies abroad had been by
this time silenced, and except in the little province of Dalarne, Sweden was at peace. It was
this revolt among the Dalesmen that served as a pretext for the diet. Gustavus was too shrewd
a politician to make an open avowal of his aim. He announced that the purpose of the diet was
to quell the constant riots in the realm, and hinted with mock innocence that he wished also
to end the dissension that had arisen in matters of the Church. Among the persons who answered
to the summons we find the names of four bishops, including Brask, together with representatives
from Upsala and all the other Chapters excepting Åbo. Beside these, there were present one
hundred and forty-four of the nobility (of whom sixteen were Cabinet members), thirty-two burghers,
one hundred and five peasants, and fourteen delegates from the mining districts. The king's
design had been made manifest before the diet met; for on the previous Sunday, at a banquet
given by him to the delegates already arrived in Vesterås, he had taken especial pains to show
the bishops that their temporal supremacy was at an end. Despising every venerated custom,
he had ranged about himself the higher members of the nobility, and had consigned the bishops
to an inferior position. The affront thus put upon them galled them to the quick, and on the
following day they held a secret meeting to discuss their wrongs. All of the bishops present
excepting Brask discerned the hopelessness of their cause, and advocated a humble submission
to the monarch's will. But Brask was boiling over with indignation. He sprang to his feet and
shouted that they must be mad. If the king wanted to deprive them of their rights by force,
he might do so. But they ought never to consent to such a course, lest they might thereby offend
the Holy See. In times gone by, princes had frequently attempted the same thing that Gustavus
was attempting now, but the thunders of the Vatican had always overwhelmed them. If the bishops
now should fall away from their allegiance to the pope, their only refuge would be gone. They
would become mere puppets of the king, afraid to speak a word in favor of their old prerogatives.
These sentiments of Brask's were listened to with favor. The warmth with which he spoke produced
its natural effect, and before the prelates parted they drew up a set of "protests," as they
called them, agreeing never to abandon the pope or accept a single article of Luther's teaching.
To these "protests" the prelates all attached their seals; and fifteen years afterward the
document was discovered under the floor of Vesterås Cathedral, with all the seals attached.[155]

Directly following this secret session of the prelates, the general diet assembled in the grand
hall of the monastery. The proceedings opened with a laborious address from Gustavus,--his
secretary, Laurentius Andreæ, acting as spokesman for the king. This address reviewed the entire
history of the monarch's reign. He began by thanking his subjects for their presence at the
diet, and went on to remind them that he had already more than once expressed his willingness
to resign the crown. Nothing had induced him to retain it except their earnest prayer. He had
therefore striven, night and day, to promote the welfare of his people, and in return for all
his labors insurrection had sprung up on every hand, till now, the Dalesmen having once again
rebelled, he was determined that he would no longer be their king. They charged him now with
imposing heavy taxes, with keeping up the price of food, with billeting his soldiers in the
towns and monasteries, with robbing churches and confiscating religious property, with favoring
new creeds and sanctioning new customs. All these charges were untrue. He had commanded that
nothing should be preached except the Word of God; but his orders had not been obeyed, for
the people preferred to cling to their ancient customs, whether right or wrong. As it was impossible,
under the present system, to avoid continual rebellion, he wished to retire from the government.
If they desired him to remain, some method must be found to increase the royal income. He was
at present wholly unable to pay the expenses of his army, for war had grown to be a much more
costly matter than it was in former days. Other expenses, too, were very heavy. The cost of
embassies to foreign powers was a serious drain upon his revenue. Moreover, the royal castles
had all sunk into decay and must be rebuilt; and if he married the daughter of some foreign
prince, a vast outlay would be required. The nobility also were impoverished through constant
warfare, and were calling on the crown for aid. His present income was twenty-four thousand
marks per annum, while his expenses in round numbers amounted to sixty thousand marks.[156]

At the close of this address Gustavus called upon the knights and bishops to reply. Although
the monarch's speech had not in terms denounced the bishops, it was clear to all men that his
purpose was to humble them. The duty of making answer, therefore, naturally fell to Brask.
That venerable prelate rose, and with his usual complaisance declared that, having sworn allegiance
to his gracious lord the king, he felt in duty bound to honor his commands. He had, however,
by his oath of office promised to do nothing contrary to the will of Rome; and since the pope
had ordered him and the other prelates to defend all property, whether real or personal, of
the holy Church, they must not consent to sacrifice their rights. But he would promise that
any deacons, priests, or monks who might devise tricks or superstitious practices not prescribed
by their superiors, should be ordered to desist and should be punished.[157]

At this, Gustavus demanded of the Cabinet and nobility whether they were satisfied with the
answer. As none seemed eager to defend the monarch's cause, Gustavus took the floor himself
and said: "I have no further desire, then, to be your king. Verily I had not counted on such
treatment at your hands. I now no longer wonder at the perversity of the people, since they
have such men as you for their advisers. Have they no rain? They lay the blame on me. Have
they no sun? Again they lay the blame on me. When hard times come, hunger, disease, or whatever
it may be, they charge me with it, as if I were not man, but God. This is your gratitude to
me for bringing corn and rye and malt at great expense and trouble from foreign lands, that
the poor of Sweden might not starve. Yea, though I labor for you with my utmost power both
in spiritual and in temporal affairs, you would gladly see the axe upon my neck; nay, you would
be glad to strike the blow yourselves. I have borne more labor and trouble both at home and
abroad than any of you can know or understand,--and all because I am your king. You would now
set monks and priests and all the creatures of the pope above my head, though we have little
need of these mighty bishops and their retinue. In a word, you all would lord it over me; and
yet you elected me your king. Who under such circumstances would desire to govern you? Not
the worst wretch in hell would wish the post, far less any man. Therefore I, too, refuse to
be your king. I cast the honor from me, and leave you free to choose him whom you will. If
you can find one who will continue ever to please you, I shall be glad. Be so considerate,
however, as to let me leave the land. Pay me for my property in the kingdom, and return to
me what I have expended in your service. Then I declare to you I will withdraw never to return
to my degenerate, wretched, and thankless native land."[158]

After this burst of passion, the monarch strode in anger from the hall. He had studied his
position well, and knew that his opponents in the end must yield. No sooner had he left the
meeting than his secretary rose and sought to bring the members to the monarch's views. "My
good men," he began, "let us arrive at some conclusion in this matter, seeking aid from God.
It is a weighty question that we are to answer, and one upon which hangs the welfare of our
people. You heard the king say truly there were but two courses open. One was to follow his
request, imploring him to be our leader hereafter as heretofore; the other was to choose the
king's successor." But the delegates continued silent, and adjourned toward evening without
putting the question to a vote.[159]

During three whole days the deadlock lasted. From the inactivity of the king's adherents, it
would seem that they were acting according to advice. Gustavus wished to force his enemies'
hand. It was clear to everybody that the blessings conferred by him on Sweden were beyond all
praise, and he was confident that no one would be rash enough to talk seriously about selecting
another for the throne. His object was to wait until the patience of his enemies was exhausted,
in the hope that ultimately the offer of a compromise should come from them. If such methods
of procedure are to be allowed, it must be granted that the monarch's policy was shrewd. During
the three days following his stormy action in the diet, he kept himself in the castle, entertaining
his trusty courtiers and feigning utter indifference to what was going on outside. On the very
day after his withdrawal, this independent policy began to tell. The bishop of Strengnäs was
apparently the first to waver. He appreciated the folly of longer holding out against the king,
and rose to say that he regarded such a step as fraught with danger. Something must be done,
he said, without delay. To put aside Gustavus and elect another king was simply childish, and
to buy up all his property would be impossible. While he wished the clergy's rights to be protected,
he asked for nothing that would be a detriment to the realm. Matters in general were now improving,
and the future apparently was bright. If Gustavus should be permitted to withdraw, nations
that had ever coveted the kingdom would no longer leave it unmolested. The effect of these
words was in a measure lost through a wrangle that ensued between Laurentius Petri and the
Papist champion, Peder Galle. What they were fighting over, no one knew, for Petri made his
argument in Swedish for the benefit of the people, and Galle would not answer in anything but
Latin. Nothing had been accomplished, therefore, when the disputation ceased. And the morning
and the evening were the second day.[160]

When the diet once more came together, the battle opened with replenished strength. By this
time the peasantry and burghers had pretty generally sided with the king, and threats were
heard that, if the knights persisted in their stubborn purpose, they would be made to suffer
for it. This language proved more efficacious than persuasion. The knights and bishops could
agree upon no policy, nor upon a leader. They were terrified, moreover, by the preponderance
in number of their foes. As a consequence, they gradually weakened, till at last the delegates
all voted to obey the monarch's will. Andreæ and Petri were therefore chosen to approach Gustavus
and inform him that the delegates would now consent to his requests. Gustavus then indulged
once more his love of masquerade. He feigned reluctance to accept the proffered honor, and
scorned the delegates who came to him upon their knees. One after another the recalcitrant
members grovelled in the dust before him, and begged that he would show them mercy. This was
the sort of ceremony that the monarch loved. He kept his enemies in their humble posture till
his vanity was glutted, and then declared that he would go before the diet on the following
day.[161]

Gustavus was at last in a position to dictate to the diet. The opportunity for which he had
been longing since his first acceptance of the crown was now at hand. He had won an unconditional
victory over every one of his opponents, and he was minded to use this victory for all that
it was worth. It is matter of regret that practically no account is given us of the steps by
which the measures that he sought to have enacted were attained. This very meagreness, however,
is strong evidence that the measures were enacted without much friction. Apparently, the only
object of the delegates now was to suit their action to the monarch's will. They therefore
adopted as their guiding star the propositions with which the diet had been opened by the king,
and formulated a set of answers in conformity therewith. These answers were drawn respectively
by the Cabinet and nobility, by the burghers and mountaineers, and by the common people. It
is worthy of more than passing notice that no answer was presented by the clergy. Indeed, the
clergy appear to have been regarded in the light of victims. The whole object of the diet was
to crush the Church, and the clergy were not permitted even to have a hand in the proceedings.
The monarch's notion was to give the clergy no voice whatever in the diet, but after the lay
delegates had formulated their resolves, to force the bishops to issue a proclamation certifying
their assent.

It seems desirable to describe in brief the answers which the different classes of delegates
presented. The Cabinet and nobility began by promising that, if the rebellion in Dalarne were
not already quelled, they would use every measure in their power to attain that end. They were
satisfied with the monarch's seizure of Gripsholm. They deemed it proper, since the royal rents
were small, that Gustavus be at liberty to grant the monasteries of the land as fiefs, but
not, however, to expel the monks. In order to increase the wealth of the nobility, they advocated
that all property granted by former noblemen to churches or monasteries since 1454 revert to
the donors' heirs, though not until such heirs should prove their title. To augment the crown's
resources, they believed the bishops, chapters, and cathedrals should surrender to the king
all that portion of their income which they did not absolutely need. No one should be permitted
to preach falsehood or anything beyond the simple Word of God, and old Church customs ought
to be maintained.[162]

The burghers and mountaineers gave their answer in a similar vein. They begged Gustavus to
remain their king, and promised to defend him with their blood. They would express no opinion
concerning Dalarne till the Dalesmen who were going thither should bring back their report.
Since the monks were clearly at the bottom of the trouble, no monk should be permitted to leave
his monastery more than twice a year. Gustavus should be given the right of billeting whenever
it were necessary. Before deciding about the new beliefs they wished to hear a disputation
on the subject. As the rents of the nobility and crown had been diminished by the Church, the
Church ought certainly to restore them; and the mode of restoration should be determined by
Gustavus and his Cabinet. The royal castles having been demolished, the prelates should surrender
theirs until the castles belonging to the crown could be rebuilt. Finally, from that day forth
no bishop ought to send to Rome for confirmation.[163]

The answer of the common people began with a promise that they would go to Dalarne and inflict
punishment upon the traitors; and since many monks were in the habit of inciting the people
to rebel, it seemed desirable that they be permitted to leave their monasteries only twice
each year. Gustavus might quarter his soldiers in the monasteries whenever it was necessary.
The churches and monasteries near Stockholm, having in times past given shelter to the enemy,
should be torn down and their materials used to repair the city walls. All matters of creed
they were willing to leave to the bishops and prelates, but asked that a disputation on these
subjects might be had in presence of representatives of the people. The king should have authority
to increase his revenue in the way that seemed to him most fitting. The king might take the
bishops' castles till his own could be rebuilt. The proper disposition of the Church incomes
they were content to leave to the king and his Cabinet.[164]

One cannot but be startled by the revolutionary tendency of these replies. Never before had
such a thing been dreamt of as the surrender of all the bishops' castles to the crown. Gustavus
must have been bewildered by his own audacity. Within four days the diet that had come together
puffed up by a consciousness of its own magnificence, had sunk into a position of absolute
servility. Things had been granted by the delegates which, when the diet opened, Gustavus had
not even dared to ask. The very mode in which the votes were taken and the acts were passed,
shows how completely everybody answered to the monarch's nod. Instead of the answers being
submitted to a general vote, they were laid before the Cabinet to be passed upon by them. In
defiance of every precedent, the Cabinet usurped the right to clothe the diet's sentiment in
language of their own. The result was a decree promulgated in the diet's name and celebrated
in Swedish history as the Vesterås Recess. By this decree the delegates asserted, every one
of them, that they would do their utmost to punish all conspiracies against the king. They
declared, moreover, that as the royal incomes were but meagre, the monasteries and churches
must come to the relief, and, to prevent all danger, no bishop should keep up a larger retinue
than the king allowed. All bishops and cathedrals, with their chapters, must hand over to the
king all income not absolutely necessary for their support. Since many monasteries were dilapidated
and their lands were lying waste, an officer must be appointed by the crown to keep them up
and hand over all their rents not needed for that purpose to the crown. The nobility were declared
entitled to all property that had passed from their ancestors to the Church since 1454. Finally,
Gustavus was ordered to summon the two factions in the Church to hold a disputation in presence
of the diet, and the members promised to quell the outcry that had arisen against Gustavus
and to punish the offenders.[165]

It is reported that something in the nature of a disputation was now held. But its significance,
at any rate, was small. The bishops and their clergy were to all intents and purposes without
a voice; and ere the diet closed, a set of resolutions had been passed which did away with
all necessity for further disputation. These so-called "Vesterås Ordinantia" were even more
far-reaching than the "Vesterås Recess." Since they are the touchstone of the modern Swedish
faith, the reader will pardon prolixity if I give them all. They are as follows: (1) Vacancies
in the parish-churches are to be filled by the bishop of the diocese. If, however, he appoints
murderers, drunkards, or persons who cannot or will not preach the Word of God, the king may
expel them and appoint other priests who are more fit. (2) Where a parish is poor, two of them
may be joined together, though not if such a step would be an injury to the Word of God. (3)
All bishops shall furnish the king with a schedule of their rents and incomes of every kind.
From these schedules he shall determine the relative proportions for them to keep and to hand
over to the crown. (4) A similar course shall be pursued with regard to the cathedrals and
chapters. (5) Auricular confession must be given up as already commanded, and an account must
be rendered to the king of all fines imposed. (6) An account must also be rendered to the king
of all fees received for remitting the ban, and bishops with their officers must not inflict
the ban for petty offences, as has been often done hitherto. (7) Bishops shall have authority
to determine as to the legality of marriages, and may grant divorces, but an account shall
be rendered to the king of all fees received therefor. (8) Fees for weddings, funerals, and
churchings, may be taken as provided in the Church ordinances, but no more. (9) Since it has
been decreed that the king and not the bishop is to receive all fines imposed in cases within
ecclesiastical jurisdiction, the provosts may hereafter hold court just as the bishops have
done hitherto, and shall render an account of their doings to the king. (10) For desecration
of holy days no penalty is to be imposed on those who have been tilling the ground, or fishing,
or catching birds, but persons discovered hunting or quarrelling shall be fined. (11) Priests
shall be subject to temporal laws and temporal courts, in all disputes, of their own or of
their churches, concerning property, torts, or contracts, and shall pay to the king the same
penalties as laymen. But all complaints against the clergy for non-fulfilment of their priestly
duties shall be laid before the bishop. (12) If a priest and layman come to blows, one shall
not be placed under the ban any more than the other, for God has forbidden priests to quarrel
as well as laymen. Both shall suffer for their acts according to the laws of the land. (13)
Since it has been found that mendicant monks spread lies and deceit about the country, the
royal stewards are to see that they do not remain away from their monasteries more than five
weeks every summer and five weeks every winter. Every monk must get a license from the steward
or burgomaster before he goes out, and return it when he comes back. (14) Monks who receive
rents shall not go out to beg at all. (15) When a priest dies, the bishop is not to defraud
the priest's heirs of their inheritance. Priests shall be bound, in regard to their wills,
by the same law as other people. (16) If a man has sexual intercourse with a woman to whom
he is engaged, he shall not be punished, since they are already married in the eye of God.
(17) No person who is infirm shall be compelled by priests to make a will. (18) The sacrament
shall not be withheld from any one for debt or other reason. The church or priest has a remedy
in court. (19) Fines for adultery and fornication belong to the king, not to the bishop. (20)
The Gospel shall hereafter be taught in every school. (21) Bishops shall consecrate no priest
who is incompetent to preach the Word of God. (22) No one shall be made a prelate, canon, or
prebend unless he has been recommended by the king, or his name submitted to the king.[166]

These ordinances were practically a signal for the death of popery. They not only transferred
to the king the rich emoluments on which for centuries the bishops had grown fat; they transferred
also to him a right to superintend the actions of ecclesiastical authorities in matters appertaining
to the Church. It is hardly credible that so vast an object should have been attained without
more friction, and that it was attained is a lasting testimony to the shrewdness of the king.
We may sneer at the childish indignation with which Gustavus strode forth from the diet, but
the fact remains that this pretended indignation gained its end. Above all else, Gustavus knew
the character of his people. They were particularly prone to sentiment. A few sham tears or
an exuberant display of wrath had more effect upon them than the most sagacious argument that
the monarch could employ. His policy, therefore, was to stir their feelings, and then withdraw
to watch their feelings effervesce. It is not too much to say that no monarch has ever in so
short a time effected greater change in sentiment than Gustavus effected among the members
of this diet.

Before the delegates departed, a letter was issued by all the bishops present, and by representatives
of the absent bishops, declaring to the people that Gustavus had portrayed in graphic terms
the evil inflicted on the crown in former times by bishops; and that the lay members had voted,
to prevent such danger in the future, that the bishops' retinues should be limited thereafter
by the king, and that all their superfluous rents and castles, as well as the superfluous rents
of the cathedrals and chapters, should be surrendered to the crown. "To this," the humbled
prelates added, "we could not, even if we would, object, for we wish to dispel the notion that
our power and castles are a menace to the realm. We shall be satisfied whether we are rich
or poor." To one who reads between these lines, it is easy to discern the language of the king.
He also wrote, above his own name, to the people, informing them that the diet had been held;
and for details of the proceedings he referred them to a letter which the Cabinet had penned.[167]

There was one man on whom the diet of Vesterås had fallen like a clap of thunder from on high.
His cherished dream of finally restoring Romanism to her old position in the eyes of men was
now no more. The knell of popery had been sounded, and nothing remained for the aged bishop
but despair. True to the spirit of the ancient Church, he had looked askance on every effort
to discuss her faith. The doctrines handed down through centuries appeared to him so sacred
that in his eyes it was sacrilege to open them again. In answer to the monarch's oft-repeated
counsel that the Church reform her doctrines, he had steadily asserted his unwillingness to
take that step, "for these new doctrines," he declared, "have been investigated frequently
in other countries and have been condemned. No man of wisdom, I believe, will champion a doctrine
that is contrary to the mandates of the Christian Church." This constant opposition on the
part of Brask had brought him more and more beneath the monarch's frown. Gustavus let no opportunity
escape to add humiliation to the venerable bishop. On one occasion Brask unwittingly had consecrated
as a nun a woman who formerly had been betrothed; and when the woman later left the convent
to become her lover's wife, the bishop placed them both beneath the ban. This act called forth
a condemnation from the king. "The bearer tells us," were his words to Brask, "that he has
married a woman to whom he was engaged, and who against her will was made a nun. We see no
wrong in such a practice, and wonder much that you did not inform yourself before the girl
received her consecration. The husband informs us, further, that you have placed them both
beneath the ban. This course appears to us unjust, and we command you to remit the punishment....
We think it better to allow this marriage than to drive the woman to an impure life." A little
later, when revolt arose in Dalarne, Gustavus fancied that he saw the bishop's hand. "The priests,"
he said to one of his officers, "are at the bottom of all rebellion, and the diocese of Linköping
is the heart of this conspiracy." Gustavus had no ground for this suspicion, and the charge
was utterly untrue. Brask thought the tax imposed upon the Dalesmen altogether too severe,
and did not hesitate to say so; but he was very far from sympathizing with the rebels, and
when it was ordered that the diet should be held in Vesterås to please the Dalesmen, he was
the first person to suggest a danger in holding it so near the seat of the revolt.[168]

Brask's influential position in the diet only added to the monarch's wrath, and it was against
him chiefly that the diet's acts were framed. He was the wealthiest of the Swedish bishops.
Hence the reduction in their incomes, as commanded by the diet, fell heaviest on him. But even
here the monarch's greed was not assuaged. After the "Ordinantia" had been passed, Gustavus
rose and called upon the several bishops to resign their castles. This step, though advocated
by the burghers and mountaineers as well as common people, had not been ordered by the diet.
Gustavus seems, therefore, to have made the demand upon his own authority alone, and the issue
proved that his authority was great. The bishops of Strengnäs and Skara, on whom the demand
was made first, acquiesced as gracefully as was possible to so provoking a demand. But when
the monarch came to Brask, that prelate did not readily comply. One of the nobility addressed
the king, and begged him to allow the aged bishop to retain his castle during the few short
years that yet remained to him of life. This reasonable request, however, the monarch would
not grant; and Brask persisting in his right to hold the castle, Gustavus deprived him of his
retinue and held him prisoner till he furnished bail conditioned for his good behavior as well
as for the surrender of his castle. The diet then adjourned, Gustavus sending forth a body
of men who entered the bishop's castle by main force, and placed it under the supremacy of
the king.[169]

The ground of this barbaric treatment appears in a negotiation between the king and Brask some
five weeks later. By the Vesterås Recess Gustavus was given a claim to all the income not needed
by the bishops, cathedrals, and chapters for their support. But since the sum required for
the prelates was not named, the field thus left for argument was wide. The prelates took a
much higher view of their necessities than was taken by the king. Brask especially found it
hard to do without his ancient pomp and circumstance. Gustavus therefore put the screws upon
him to bring the lordly bishop to the ground. How well this plan succeeded is shown in a document
of the 2d of August--about five weeks after the seizure of Brask's castle--in which the bishop
is declared to have come to an understanding, and to have promised the king fifteen hundred
marks a year beside some other tribute. In reward for this concession, Gustavus declared himself
contented, and received the bishop once more into royal favor.[170]

There is now but little more to chronicle about the aged bishop. Beaten at every point, and
practically a prisoner at the monarch's mercy, he had at last capitulated and granted to Gustavus
all that he had asked. The surrender, furthermore, was but the prelude to the bishop's flight.
Conscious that every hope was crushed forever, he craved permission to visit Gotland and perform
the sacred duties of his office. This request was granted, and the venerable prelate set forth
never to return. On pretext of consulting eminent physicians, he sailed across the Baltic,
and watched the monarch's movements from afar. Gustavus, when he learned of this escape, confiscated
all the property of Brask that he could find, and, worse than all, he issued a letter, filled
with venom, denouncing the perfidy of the aged bishop and telling the people of his diocese
that Brask had fled because of suits that certain persons were about to bring against him for
his wrongs.[171]

It is difficult to take our leave of Brask without a word in admiration of his character. He
was, in point of intellect, the most commanding figure of his time. Though born and bred among
a people strangely void of understanding, he displayed some talents by which he would have
stood conspicuous in any court of Europe. His learning possibly was not so great as that of
Magni, nor did his eloquence by any means compare with that of Petri. But in matters of diplomacy,
in the art of comprehending human nature, he was unsurpassed by any prelate of the day. He
was singularly acute in forming his conclusions. Rarely if ever did he express opinions that
were not ultimately verified by facts. His versatility, moreover, was something marvellous.
While weighted down with every sort of trouble and anxiety, he spent his leisure moments in
writing perfectly delightful letters to his friends. These letters bear the marks of suffering,
but are calm in spirit, charitable, and replete with thought. They treat of botany, of geographical
experiments, and of various schemes to benefit the Swedish nation. As specimens of literature
they are superior to any other documents of the time; and the writer evidently took keen pleasure
in their composition. "By means of letters," he declared, "we keep our friends; and I would
rather keep the friends I have than make new ones." Brask's greatest fault was his hypocrisy;
but even this was due more to his education than to any innate trait. He was a Romanist of
the deepest dye, and along with Romanism he inherited a tendency to sacrifice the means in
order to effect the end. His very earnestness impelled him to deceive. But his deception, if
only we may judge him leniently, was of a very pardonable kind. Take him for all in all, he
was an extremely interesting man; and when he left the country, Sweden lost a valuable son.

FOOTNOTES:

[135] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 101-102; Kon. Gust. den Förstes registrat., vol. ii. p.
138; and Handl. rör. Skand. hist., vol. xviii. pp. 295-303 and 315-316.

[136] Handl. rör.

[137] Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 62-63; Handl. rör. Skand. hist., vol. xxiii. pp. 59-60; Handl. rör.

[138] Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 86-88; Handl. rör.

[139] Handl. rör.

[140] Skrift. och handl., vol. i. p. 100.

[141] Ibid., pp. 19 and 118. Skand. hist., vol. xvi. pp. 43-52, 59-62 and 76-78; Handl. rör.

[143] Skrift. och handl., vol. i. p. 71.

[144] Ibid., p. 28.

[145] Ibid., p. 33.

[146] Ibid., p. 76.

[147] Ibid., pp. 77-78.

[148] Skrift. och handl., vol. i. p. 87.

[149] Ibid., p. 96. Petri's book, entitled Swar påå tolff spörsmål, published in 1527, is printed
in Skrift. och handl., vol. i. pp. 1-145.

[150] Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 95-96; Handl. rör.

[151] Johannes Magni, Hist. pont., pp. 76-80; Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 100-104 and 120-121;
Handl. rör. Skand. hist., vol. xviii. pp. 341-342; Handl. rör.

[152] Handl. rör.

[153] Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 102-104; Handl. rör. Skand. hist., vol. xvi. pp. 115-119; Handl.
rör.

[154] Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp. 105-109 and 112-113; Handl. rör.

[155] Svart, Gust.

[156] Svart, Gust.

[157] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., p. 126.

[158] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 126-128.

[159] Ibid., p. 128.

[160] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 128-131.

[161] Ibid., pp. 131-133.

[165] Svart, Gust.

[166] There is a Latin version of the "Ordinantia" containing certain regulations not given
in the Swedish. They are these: The contribution known as "Peter's penning" shall not be given
hereafter to the pope, but shall go to swell the royal revenue. A like disposition shall be
made of the money which the monasteries are wont to send to the superiors of their orders.
Bishops and other prelates shall not hereafter pay anything to the pope for confirmation. It
will be sufficient if they take their office by consent of the king. All property, real and
personal, donated to the cathedrals, monasteries, and parochial or prebendal churches, shall
belong to the descendants of the noblemen who gave it, and if there is any residue, it shall
be conferred by the king on whomsoever he will. All real property sold or pledged to churches
may be redeemed on payment of the sum received for the property. To augment the crown's resources
the bishops, cathedrals, and canons ought to hand over to the king as large a sum as they can
spare. All these regulations in the Latin version bear on their face the stamp of forgery.
They are drawn in a careless manner, and convey the impression of being part of a rough draught
that never was perfected. Certainly they never were enforced.

[168] Dipl. Eccles., pp. 10-11 and 17-18; and Skrift. och handl., vol. i. pp. 352-353.

[169] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 133-134; and Kon. Gust. den Förstes registrat., vol. iv. p. 259.

[170] Handl. rör. Sver. inre förhåll., vol. i. pp. 105-107; and Kon. Gust. den Förstes registrant.,
vol. iv. pp. 287-289.

[171] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 134-135; Handl. rör.

There is but one scene needed now to bring the drama of the Swedish Revolution to its close.
During a period of over four eventful years Gustavus Vasa had been seated on the throne, but
the final act deemed necessary in the election of a king had not yet taken place. Again and
again the people had urged Gustavus to be crowned, but on one pretext or another he had put
them off, and the ancient rite of coronation was not yet performed. The mystery of this strange
delay can easily be explained by looking for a moment into the condition of the Swedish Church.

It was a time-honored theory all over Christendom that no person could be legally installed
in any royal post without first having the sanction of the Church of Rome; and such sanction,
it was held, could only be conferred through the consecrated archbishop of the land. When Gustavus
was elected king, the Swedish archbishop was in voluntary exile, and nobody expected that he
ever would return. Indeed, he was so far an object of suspicion at the papal court that, shortly
after the election of Gustavus, the pope appointed another prelate to perform the duties of
archbishop till the charges brought against Gustaf Trolle should be set at rest. It is matter
of common knowledge that Trolle never succeeded in vindicating his position; and Magni, though
not confirmed, continued to perform the duties of archbishop.

In January, 1526, the Cabinet urged Gustavus to be crowned, and he declared that he would do
so in the coming summer, trusting presumably that Magni would receive his confirmation ere
that time. A tax was even levied to defray the expenses of the ceremony. But some opposition
was encountered when the royal officers endeavored to collect the tax, and, the kingdom being
then in need of revenue, the project had to be postponed. There is evidence, moreover, that
Gustavus was not eager for the confirmation of the prelates. On one occasion he expressed a
fear that they were seeking to obtain their consecration with a view to transfer their allegiance
from himself to Rome. Apparently his object was, by continual postponement of the coronation,
to have a standing argument whenever he desired to obtain new funds.[172]

Matters therefore dragged on in the same way till Archbishop Magni had been banished and the
diet of Vesterås had voted an addition to the income of the king. As the Cabinet had been beyond
all others urgent in their solicitations, the announcement of the monarch's resolution was
addressed to them. He would have still preferred, he said, to delay his coronation till the
summer of 1528; but fearing that at that time he should be too busy, he had resolved to have
the rite performed soon after Christmas, and the day he fixed at January 6. Invitations were
then sent out to all the noblemen of the realm, who were instructed also to appear with all
their retinues, and to bring their wives and daughters with them. Each town was asked to send
two delegates to the coronation, and a certain number of persons were to represent the different
parishes throughout the land. Sheep, geese, and hens were ordered in enormous quantities to
be collected by the royal stewards for the festival. These the thrifty monarch arranged should
be provided by the parishes themselves. Lest the Dalesmen, already somewhat irritated, should
have new cause for discontent, Gustavus wrote them that they need not take part in the contribution,
nor even send their representatives if they did not feel inclined.[173]

Although the Swedish Church was practically severed from the Church of Rome, a doubt still
lingered in the monarch's mind as to the propriety of a coronation by prelates whose authority
had not been sanctioned by the pope. Therefore, to remove all chance of contest, he directed
that those bishops who had not received their confirmation should be sanctified through laying
on of hands by those who had. As a matter of fact the only bishops whose authority had been
derived from Rome were the bishops of Vexiö and Vesterås. The former was too old to undertake
the active duties of his office. The bishop of Vesterås was selected, therefore, to consecrate
the bishops of Skara, Strengnäs, and Åbo. This was effected on the 5th of January,--just before
the coronation festival began.[174]

The gorgeous ceremony was performed, according to ancient practice, in the Cathedral of Upsala.
Representatives from every portion of the realm were present, and the huge edifice was filled
from choir to nave with all the wealth and beauty that the land could boast. It was the final
tribute of gratitude to one whose ceaseless energy had saved the nation from long years of
tyranny. Never had the Swedish people been more deeply bounden to revere their ruler. If in
the annals of all history a king deserved to wear a crown, Gustavus Vasa was that king. The
honor, however, was not all his own. The ceremony of coronation over, Gustavus selected from
among his courtiers twelve to whom he granted the degree of knighthood. Here again, as on the
day of his election, he displayed the sentiments that inspired his whole reign. No longer do
we find among the monarch's chosen counsellors the names of men illustrious in the Church and
Chapter. It was from the ranks of the lower classes that the persons whom he was to knight
were chosen, and from this time forward the knights to all intents and purposes composed his
Cabinet. No stronger argument can be offered to show the utter humiliation of the Church.[175]

The act of coronation was followed by a period of mirth. A rich repast was offered by the king,
at which the representatives of all the classes were invited to be present. A new coin, also,
bearing the full-length figure of Gustavus, with his sword and sceptre, and wearing on his
head a crown, was issued and distributed gratuitously among the people. On the following days
the ceremony was prolonged by tilt and tourney. With all the gallantry of a warmer climate
two gladiators entered the lists to combat for the hand of one of Sweden's high-born ladies.
The chronicler has immortalized the combatants, but the fair lady's name, by reason of a blemish
in the manuscript, is gone forever. From beginning to end the scene was one which no eyewitness
ever could forget. Years later, it stirred the spirit of the author whose zeal has given us
the leading features of our narrative. It is a fitting picture with which to close this tale.[176]

The Swedish Revolution now was at an end, and the great achievements of Gustavus Vasa had been
done. Though not yet thirty-two, the youthful monarch had already secured a place among the
foremost leaders of the world. We have watched the Swedish nation rise from insignificance,
through a series of remarkable developments, till its grandeur cast a lengthened shadow across
the face of northern Europe. In some regards this revolution stands pre-eminent above all others
known in history. Few political upheavals have been more sudden, and few, if any, have been
more complete. Seven years was all Gustavus needed to annihilate the ancient constitution,
and fashion another structure of an absolutely new design. The Cabinet, at one time the autocrat
of Sweden, was now a mere puppet in the monarch's hand. Under the guise of leader of the people,
Gustavus had crushed the magnates, with all their old magnificence and power, beneath his feet.
In place of bishops and archbishops, whose insolence had been to former kings a constant menace,
his court was filled with common soldiers selected from the body of the nation, and raised
to posts of highest honor, for no other reason than their obedience to the monarch's will.
Of the old ecclesiastical authority not a trace was left. Rome, in ages past the ultimate tribunal
for the nation, had now no more to say in Sweden than in the kingdom of Japan. The Reformation
was so thorough that from the reign of Gustavus Vasa to the present day, it is asserted, no
citizen of Sweden has become a Romish priest.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Revolution whose main incidents have here been followed recalls another Revolution enacted
near three centuries later amid the forests of the great continent of North America. Both originated
in a long series of acts of tyranny, and each gave birth to a hero whose name has become a
lasting synonym of strength and greatness. The lessons of history, however, are more often
found in contrasts than in similarities, and the points of difference between these two upheavals
are no less striking than their points of likeness. The chief difference lies in the individual
characteristics of the leaders. George Washington was pre-eminently a hero of the people. He
embraced the popular cause from no other motive than a love of what he deemed the people's
rights; and when the war of independence closed, he retired from public life and allowed the
nation whose battle he had fought to take the government of the country upon itself. The result
was the most perfect system of republican government that the world has ever known. Gustavus
Vasa, on the other hand, though actuated in a measure by enthusiasm for the public weal, was
driven into the contest mainly by a necessity to save himself. The calm disinterestedness which
marks the career of Washington was wholly wanting in the Swedish king. His readiness to debase
the currency, his efforts to humiliate the bishops, his confiscation of Church property, his
intimacy with foreign courtiers,--all show a desire for personal aggrandizement inconsistent
with an earnest longing to benefit his race. One must regret that the rare talents which he
possessed, and the brilliant opportunities that lay before him, were not employed in more unselfish
ends. It is true he gave his country a better constitution than it had before; he freed it
from the atrocities of a horrid tyrant; he laid the axe at the root of many religious absurdities;
and he relieved the people from a heavy load of religious burdens. But he did not lay that
foundation of public liberty which the blood poured out by the Swedish people merited. Of all
nations on the face of the globe none are more fitted by temperament for a republican form
of government than the Swedes. They are calm, they are thoughtful, they are economical, and
above all else, they are imbued with an ardent love of liberty. It is hard, therefore, to repress
the wish that Gustavus Vasa had been allowed, at the diet of Vesterås, to lay aside the crown,
and that in his place a leader had been chosen to carry on the good work on the lines already
drawn. The Revolution had begun with a feeling that the Swedish nation was entitled to be ruled
according to its ancient laws,--that it was entitled to a representative form of government;
and it was only because of the nation's admiration for its leader that this object was relinquished.
The people, having expelled one tyrant, chose another; and ere Gustavus closed his memorable
reign, the principle of hereditary monarchy was once more engrafted on the nation. Nothing
could demonstrate with greater clearness the extreme danger that is always imminent in blind
enthusiasm for a popular and gifted leader.

FOOTNOTES:

[172] Alla riksdag. och möt. besluth, vol. i. pp. 37-39 and 45-47; Dipl. Dal., vol. ii. pp.
77, 80-81 and 93; Handl. rör.

[174] Svart, Gust. I.'s. krön., p. 136; Handl. rör.

[175] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., p. 136; and Kon. Gust. den Förstes registrat., vol. v. pp. 9-11.

[176] Svart, Gust. I.'s krön., pp. 136-137.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

I. AUTHORITIES.

A. Books and Pamphlets.

    [In this list are included all works written for publication,
    whether published or not, before the year 1600. The arrangement is
    strictly chronological.]

BEYER, Christopher. Chronicon Gedanensis. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum medii aeui, ed. E.
M. Fant. Upsal., 1818-1828. 2 vols. f^o. vol. iii., ed. C. Annerstedt. Upsal., 1871-1876. f^o.
sect. 1, pp. 339-340.]

The author was born in 1502, and died in 1518. His chronicle contains a few allusions to events
in Sweden from 1507 to 1515.

FERBER, Eberhard. Chronicon Gedanensis. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum, vol. iii. sect. 1,
pp. 340-341.]

Author died in 1529. A few statements in his chronicle refer to the expedition of Christiern
II. against Sweden in 1518.

Svenska medeltidens rim-krönikor, ed. G. E. Klemming. Stockh., 1865-1868. 3 vols. 8^o.

This ancient collection of rhythmic chronicles, composed by various unknown hands, is devoted
chiefly to events occurring before the sixteenth century; and most of the chronicles contained
in it were written before that time. Two of them, however, were written in the monastery at
Vadstena in 1520, one running through the reign of Karl Knutsson, and the other running from
1452 to 1520. Beside these there is a satire on Christiern II., written shortly after 1520.
Although these chronicles are little to be relied on, they are extremely valuable as specimens
of early Swedish literature.

KOCK, Reimarus. Chronicon Lubecensis. His chronicle runs to 1521.

Von der graüsamen tyrannischen myssehandelung, so Künig Christiern, des namēs der Ander vō
Den̄marck jm reich zu Sweden begāgen hatt.

This little work, containing only twelve pages, bears no date or place of publication on the
titlepage, but at the end is dated at Surcöping, Dec. 29, 1522. One copy of it is in the Royal
Library at Stockholm. It is merely a denunciation of the cruelties of Christiern II., and was
doubtless issued with a view to win friends for Gustavus Vasa in different parts of Europe.
It is written in High German, and has since been translated and published several times in
Dutch and also in Swedish.

Proelia inter Suecos et Danos annis 1452-1524.

Diarium Minoritarum Visbyensium ab anno 686 ad annum 1525. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum,
vol. i. sect. 1, pp. 32-39.]

A meagre chronicle of events in Visby, composed by various unknown hands in the fourteenth,
fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries.

STEGMANN, Bernt. Hanseatische Chronik. [In Scriptores rerum Prussicarum, ed. T. Hirsch, M.
Töppen, and E. Strehlke. Leipz., 1861-1874. 5 vols. 8^o. vol. v. pp. 492-528.]

This chronicle runs to the year 1525. It was probably collected by Stegmann, a Dantzic burgher
of the time of Gustavus, but it seems not to have been written by him. It is in Low German.
Pages 517-528 give the story of Christiern's cruelties in Sweden, which the writer denounces
in unmeasured terms.

ZIEGLER, Jacob. Crudelitas Christierni Secundi.

Chronicon episcoporum Arosiensium. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum, vol. iii. sect. 2, pp.
120-128.]

This consists of some extracts made by Peder Svart from a rhythmic Latin chronicle of an unknown
author. It runs to 1534.

ELIESEN, Povel. Chronicon Skibyensis. [In Scriptorum rerum Danicarum medii aeui, ed. J. Langebek.
Hafniae, 1772-1878. 9 vols. f^o. vol. ii. pp. 554-602.]

This chronicle was written by Eliesen in the years 1519-1534, closing abruptly with the year
1534, though it has been continued by a later hand to the year 1555. The MS. was found in 1650,
in the church at Skiby in Seeland. Eliesen was a Danish priest, a Catholic, and a vehement
opponent of Christiern II.

PETRI, Olaus. Svenska krönika, ed. G. E. Klemming. Stockh., 1860. 8^o.

Born in 1497; died in 1552. Called the Luther of Sweden. Was a man of determined character,
great eloquence, and common sense. He wrote in a strong, pure style, and with a critical judgment.
His Svenska krönika is the first history of Sweden written in modern Swedish. It was completed
in 1534, but runs only to the year 1521. It awoke the hostility of Gustavus because of its
leniency to the old bishops and clergy.

RENSEL, Clement. Berättelse hörande till Konung Gustafs I.'s historia. [In Handlingar rörande
Skandinaviens historia. Stockh., 1816-1865. 41 vols. 8^o. vol. ii. pp. 13-54.]

A native of Livonia, came to Sweden in 1521 to enlist under the banner of Gustavus. He writes
like a blunt soldier who revels in the story of a battle. His Berättelse seems to have been
written for the king. It is chiefly a chronicle of Swedish wars, running from 1518 to 1536.
The original MS. is in the University Library at Upsala, and seems to have run later than the
year 1536, a portion at the end of the MS. being lost.

Diarium Vazstenense ab anno 1344 ad annum 1545. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum, vol. i. sect.
1, pp. 99-229.]

A long chronology of Church affairs, chiefly relating to the monastery at Vadstena. Written
by unknown hands, and completed in the sixteenth century.

Märkvärdige händelser i Sverige ifrån 1220 till 1552. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum, vol.
i. sect. 1, pp. 90-91.]

A very short chronology of general events in Sweden, by an unknown author, written in the sixteenth
century.

MAGNI, Johannes. De omnibus Gothorum Sueonumque regibus qui unquam ab initio nationis extitere,
eorumque memorabilibus bellis late uarieque per orbem gestis, opera Olai Magni Gothi fratris
eiusdem autoris ac etiam archiepiscopi Upsalensis in lucem edita. Romae, 1554. 4^o.

The author, the last Roman Catholic archbishop of Sweden, was born in 1488 and died in 1544.
The work is edited by his brother, Olaus Magni. It runs to the year 1520. The writer lacks
critical judgment, and his work abounds in errors. He writes as one who, though wronged, is
unwilling to complain; yet he hints that later generations may not think so highly of Gustavus
as those living at the time.

MAGNI, Olaus. Historia de gentibus Septentrionalibus, earumque diuersis statibus, conditionibus,
moribus, ritibus, superstitionibus, disciplinis, exercitiis, regimine, uictu, bellis, fructuris,
instrumentis, ac mineris metallicis, et rebus mirabilibus, necnon uniuersis pene animalibus
in Septentrione degentibus, eorumque natura. Romae, 1555. 6^o.

Author was a brother of Archbishop Johannes Magni. Born in 1490, travelled through the northern
portions of Scandinavia in 1518 and 1519 on a papal mission. As a canon of Upsala and Linköping
was employed by Gustavus Vasa in several missions, being sent to Rome in 1523 to obtain papal
confirmation of his brother's election to the archbishopric. After his brother's disgrace he
followed him, as his secretary, to Rome, and at his brother's death was appointed archbishop
of Upsala by the pope, but never attempted to assert his right. Died in Rome in 1558. He was
a man of remarkable memory, and possessed strong powers of observation; but he lacked his brother's
even temper. His Hist. de gent. Sept. is one of the most singular books ever written. It is
an encyclopædia of Sweden in the sixteenth century; and though filled with errors and barefaced
exaggerations, is invaluable to any student of Swedish history.

MAGNI, Johannes. Historia pontificum metropolitanae ecclesiae Upsaliensis in regnis Suetiae
et Gothiae. Reprinted at Rome in 1560.

PETRI, Laurentius. Then Svenska chrönikan. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum, vol. ii. sect.
2, pp. 3-151.]

Born 1499, died 1573. First Protestant archbishop of Sweden, and brother of Olaus Petri. Lacked
his brother's eloquence, but surpassed him and indeed all men of his time as a writer of Swedish
prose. This work is nothing but his brother's Svenska krönika, wholly revised, with the omission
of certain manifest errors. Like his brother's work, it runs only to the year 1521, and is
believed to have been completed about 1559.

SVANING, Hans. Refutatio calumniarum cuiusdam Ioannis Magni Gothi Upsalensis, quibus in historia
sua ac famosa oratione Danicam gentem incensit. 1560. 4^o.

A Danish priest and royal historiographer; born 1503, died 1584. Was a warm adherent of Fredrik
II. of Denmark, and an opponent of Christiern II. Wrote this book to refute the work De omn.
Goth. of Johannes Magni. It is so full of bitterness toward the Swedes that, while it was going
through the press, the Danish chancellor suppressed the pages bearing Svaning's name, and the
book was published under that of a German professor named Rosefontanus, who had died in 1559.
The name of the printer and place of publication was also left out, and it was made to appear
as if compiled many years before from some documents which Rosefontanus had seen when Christiern
II. took refuge at his house. The copy in the Royal Library at Stockholm contains the suppressed
pages, all soiled and torn. A second edition, bearing the author's real name, was printed in
Copenhagen in 1561.

SVANING, Hans. Christiernus II. Daniae rex. Francof., 1658. 12^o.

Published from an old MS. written by Svaning. Is written with much vigor, though somewhat unfair
both to Christiern II. and to Gustavus Vasa.

SVART, Peder. Ährapredikning öffwer then fordom stormechtigaste, oöffwerwinnelige, och högloffligaste
furstes och herres, H. Gostafs, Sweriges, Göthes, Wändes etc. konungz och faders, christelige
lijk. Holmiae, 1620. 4^o.

This is the funeral oration delivered over the body of Gustavus in Upsala Cathedral, Dec. 21,
1560, by Peder Svart, who had formerly been preacher to the court and had been made bishop
of Vesterås by Gustavus in 1556. It is ornate and pretentious, and of little value.

SVART, Peder. Gustaf I.'s krönika, ed. G. E. Klemming. Stockh., 1870. 8^o.

This chronicle was begun in 1561, the year following the king's death; and the author himself
died in 1562, having brought his work down only to the year 1533. The original MS. is in the
Royal Library at Stockholm. Svart writes in a forcible and at the same time easy style. Nor
does he lack good sense; though the work is marred throughout by a bitterness toward popery
and a total blindness to the errors of Gustavus.

SVART, Peder. Historia om de forna Westerås stifts biscopar, ed. A. A. von Stiernman. Stockh.,
1744. 4^o.

A history of the bishops of Vesterås, running to 1534.

TOXITES, Michael. Epicedion sereniss. ac potentiss. principis, ac D. D. Gostaui, Suecorum,
Gothorum, atq: Vandalorum regis.

A copy of this rare little book is preserved in the British Museum. It contains eight quarto
pages without pagination, and is without date or place of publication, though it is believed
to have been printed in Stockholm in 1561. It is a mere eulogy of Gustavus in Latin verse,
and is addressed to King Erik XIV.

GRIP, Birger Nilsson. Calendarium Hammarstadense. [In Scriptores rerum Suecicarum, vol. i.
sect. 1, pp. 237-239.]

This is a short calendar of the births and deaths of some eminent persons arranged in the order
of the days of the year. The compiler was born about 1490, and died in 1565. He was a Cabinet
member, and a warm supporter of Gustavus Vasa, whose niece he married.

LUDVIGSSON, Rasmus. Collectiones historicae. When Gustavus, according to Act passed at Vesterås,
1527, established the Royal Archives, he employed Ludvigsson to collect all the old documents
belonging to the various churches. These were then deposited in the Royal Archives. Ludvigsson
also, by order of Gustavus, compiled a genealogical table of the old nobility of Sweden, that
Gustavus might know what estates to claim. Under Erik XIV., as well as under his brother Johan,
Ludvigsson held the post of secretary to the king. He died in 1594. As a writer he shows great
industry and poor judgment. The Collectiones comprises a continuation of Svart's chronicle
to 1560, a chronicle of Erik XIV., and a compilation of the early Swedish chronicles from 1362
to 1522. Of these the chief is the continuation of Svart, which includes also Svart's chronicle
slightly altered, and the whole of it was long supposed to be Ludvigsson's own work, though
the name was erroneously spelt Rasmus Carlsson. The original MS. of this continuation of Svart
is in the University Library at Upsala. The MSS. of Ludvigsson's other works are in the Royal
Library at Stockholm.

KARL IX. Rim-chrönika, ed. B. Bergius. Stockh., 1759. 4^o.

This is a metrical chronicle, written by one of the sons of Gustavus Vasa, and containing one
or two references to Gustavus.

B. Letters, Treaties, and other Documents.

    The contemporary documents bearing on the Swedish Revolution number
    several thousand. Nearly all of these have now been printed except
    the following  collections:--

Gustaf I.'s registratur.

This consists of thirty-one MS. folios containing copies of the letters written by Gustavus
throughout his reign, and is preserved in the Royal Archives at Stockholm. The letters are
arranged in chronological order, each folio as a rule embracing the letters of a year. Nearly
all the folios were compiled by the king's secretary in the course of the year which they represent,
though some of them were not compiled till 1600 or even later; and portions of the contemporary
folios, left incomplete at the time, are filled out by a later hand. Besides this collection,
the Registratur originally embraced fifteen folios of the king's letters to foreign powers,
and some folios of his letters on the crown estates; but these are lost. The thirty-first volume
of the extant portion of the Registratur does not properly belong there, being a transcription
of Claes Christersson's letters to Gustavus in 1558-1561. Of the Registratur, ten volumes have
now been published, extending through the year 1535.

Gustaf I.'s acta historica.

This is the name given to nine bundles of MSS., chiefly originals, in the Royal Archives at
Stockholm, bearing on the reign of Gustavus Vasa. Many of them are found transcribed in the
Registratur. Some, not so transcribed, have been published in the already printed volumes of
the Registratur, as supplements, and in the Svenska riksdagsakter edited by Hildebrand and Alin.

Gustaf I.'s bref med bilagor.

This is the name given to three bundles of MS. letters, chiefly originals, of Gustavus Vasa.
These, too, are preserved in the Royal Archives at Stockholm.

This is the name given to a bundle of original MSS. of the Cabinet resolutions under Gustavus
Vasa. It is preserved in the Royal Archives at Stockholm. Most of these rådslagar have been
published in the Svenska riksdagsakter edited by Hildebrand and Alin.

Palmskiöld samlingar.

This consists of over five hundred folios of documents collected and copied by Erik and Elias
Palmskiöld about the year 1700, and contains copies of many original MSS. now lost. Portions
of these folios have been printed. As now bound, volumes 2, 3, and 4 of that portion of the
collection called number 1 are entitled Acta ad historiam R. Gustaui I., and are devoted wholly
to the reign of Gustavus Vasa.

    Apart from the above-named MSS., practically all documents bearing
    on the Swedish Revolution will be found printed in one of the
    following  collections:--

Acta et litterae ad historiam Reformationis in Suecia, ed. E. M. Fant. Upsal., 1807. 4^o.

Contains documents on the Reformation in Sweden.

Acta historiam Regis Christierni II. illustrantia, ed. P. A. Adde. Upsal., 1833. 4^o.

Contains a letter from Christiern II. to his queen, dated 1518, on the day of the battle of
Brännkyrka; also a document of 1520 resigning Stockholm Castle to Christiern; also a letter
from Gustavus Vasa, 1522; and a letter from Norby to Christiern, 1523.

Acta Tomiciana. Posnaniae, 1852-1860. 9 vols. 4^o. vol. ix. 2a ed. 1876. 4^o.

A celebrated collection of documents in the Royal Archives of Poland.

Aktstykker. See ODENSE.

Alla riksdagars och mötens besluth, ed. A. A. von Stiernman. Stockh., 1728-1743. 4 vols. 4^o.

A collection of documents issued by diets and conventions from 1521 to 1727.

Bidrag till Skandinaviens historia ur utländska arkiver, ed. C. G. Styffe. Stockh., 1859-1884.
5 vols. 8^o.

A collection of foreign documents, chiefly from the Private Archives of Denmark, relating to
the history of Skandinavia, running to 1520.

Breve og Aktstykker til Oplysning af Christiern den Andens og Frederik den Førstes Historie,
ed. C. F. Allen, Kjøbenhavn. 1854. 4^o.

Contains documents from 1519 to 1530 on the history of Christiern II. and Fredrik I.

CHRISTIANIA. SAMFUND FOR DET NORSKE FOLKS SPROG OG HISTORIE. Samling til det Norske Folks Sprog
og Historie. Christiania, 1833-1839. 6 vols. 4^o.

Contains documents on the surrender of the district of Viken by Sweden to Norway, 1523-1535;
also documents on the rebellion of Sunnanväder and Knut.

Christiern II.'s arkiv, 1e serien. Handlingar rörande Severin Norby och de under hans ledning
stående krigsföretagen mot Sverge, ed. N. J. Ekdahl. Stockh., 1835-1842. 4 vols. 8^o.

A collection of documents on Christiern II.'s expeditions against Sweden.

COPENHAGEN. KONGELIGT DANSK SELSKAB FOR FAEDRELANDETS HISTORIE OG SPROG. Danske Magazin, 3e
Raekke. Kjøbenhavn, 1843-1860. 6 vols. 4^o.

This is the third series of the work mentioned under the preceding title. It contains a few
letters relating to Christiern II.'s relations with Sten Sture in 1518.

COPENHAGEN. KONGELIGT GEHEIMEARCHIV. Aarsberetninger, ed. C. F. Wegener. Kjøbenhavn, 1852-1883.
7 vols. 8^o.

A collection of documents in the Private Archives at Copenhagen.

Corps universel diplomatique du droit des gens, ed. J. Dumont. Amst., 1726-1739. 13 vols. f^o.

A collection of European treaties from the reign of Charlemagne.

Danske Magazin. See COPENHAGEN.

De la Gardiska archivet, eller handlingar ur Greft. De la Gardiska bibliotheket på Löberöd,
ed. P. Wieselgren. Stockh. & Lund, 1831-1844. 20 vols. & bihang. 8^o.

A collection of documents on the history of Sweden, preserved in the library of the De la Gardie
family.

Den Swenska Mercurius. 4e årgång. Stockh., 1758. 8^o.

Contains a few letters from Gustavus Vasa.

Diplomatarium Dalecarlicum. Urkunde rörande landskapet Dalarne, ed. C. G. Kröningssvärd & J.
Lidén. Stockh., 1842-1853. 3 vols. & Supplement, 4^o.

Contains documents relating to Dalarne from 1248 to 1560.

Handlingar. See STOCKHOLM.

Handlingar til uplysning af Svenska historien, ed. E. M. Fant. Upsal., 1789-1802. 4 vols. 8^o.

Handlingar till upplysning af Finlands häfder, ed. A. I. Arvidsson. Stockh., 1846-1858. 10
vols. 8^o.

Handlingar till upplysning i Finlands Kyrko-historia, ed. W. G. Lagus. Ny följd. Åbo, 1836-1839.
4 vols. 4^o.

Handlingar ur. v. Brinkman'ska archivet på Trolle-Ljungby, ed. G. Andersson. Örebro, 1859-1865.
2 vols. 8^o.

Historiska handlingar. See STOCKHOLM.

Historiska märkwerdigheter til uplysning af Swenska häfder, ed. S. Lönbom. Stockh., 1768. 4
vols. 8^o.

Historiska samlingar, ed. C. Adlersparre. Stockh., 1793-1822. 5 vols. 8^o.

Konglige och furstlige förlijkningar, föreningar, försäkringar, dagtingan, förbund, förskrijffningar,
legdebref, etc., ed. J. Hadorph. Stockh., 1676. 4^o.

A valuable collection of Swedish public documents running to 1523.

Konung Gustaf den Förstes registratur. See STOCKHOLM.

LINKÖPING. Bibliotheks handlingar, ed. J. A. Lindblom. Linköp., 1793-1795. 2 vols. 8^o.

Contains a number of letters of Bishop Brask, badly edited, however.

Monumenta diplomatica Suecana, ed. J. H. Schröder. Upsal., 1822. 4^o.

Contains documents from 1441 to 1502.

Monumenta politico-Ecclesiastica ex archiuo Palmskiöldiano, ed. O. Celsius. Upsal., 1753. 4^o.

Nya Källor till Finlands Medeltidshistoria. 1a Samlingen, ed. E. Grönblad. Köpenhamn, 1857. 8^o.

Contains documents on the history of Finland from 1335 to 1524.

ODENSE. FYENS STIFTS LITERAERE SELSKAB. Aktstykker til Nordens Historie i Grevefeidens Tid,
ed. C. Paludan-Müller. Odense, 1850-1853. 2 vols. 4^o.

A very valuable collection of documents on the history of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, 1533-1536.

Samling utaf kongl. bref, stadgar och förordningar etc. angående Sweriges Riges commerce, politie
och oeconomie, ed. A. A. von Stiernman. Stockh., 1747-1775. 6 vols. U. von Troil. Upsal., 1790-1791.
5 vols. 8^o.

A very valuable collection of documents on Church matters.

Småländska archivet, ed. C. G. Södergren. Vexiö, 1853-1874. 3 vols. 8^o.

A collection of documents relating to the history of Småland.

STOCKHOLM. KONGLIGA BIBLIOTEKET. Tidningar om lärda saker. År 1767, ed. C. C. Gjörwell. Stockh.,
1767. 8^o.

Contains a few letters from Gustavus Vasa.

STOCKHOLM. KONGLIGA RIKS-ARCHIVET. Handlingar rörande Sverges inre förhållanden under Konung
Gustaf I., ed. P. E. Thyselius. Stockh., 1841-1845. 2 vols. 8^o.

These documents are in the Royal Archives at Stockholm.

STOCKHOLM. KONGLIGA RIKS-ARCHIVET. Handlingar rörande Sveriges historia. 1a serien, Konung
Gustaf den Förstes registratur, ed. V. G. Granlund. Stockh., 1861-1887. 10 vols. 8^o.

A most valuable collection of documents in the Royal Archives at Stockholm. Published thus
far only from the year 1521 through 1535.

STOCKHOLM. Historiska handlingar. Stockh., 1861-1879. Samling af instructioner rörande den
civila förvaltningen i Sverige och Finnland, ed. C. G. Styffe. Stockh., 1856. 8^o.

STOCKHOLM. KONGLIGA VETENSKAPS-ACADEMIEN. Praesidii tal om det förste lycklige tidehvarf för
Sveriges allmänna hushållning, under Gustaf d. I.'s regering, af N. Bielke, Apr. 27, 1776.
Stockh., 1776. 8^o.

Contains a number of documents from the time of Gustavus Vasa.

Supplement till Bishop Brasks brefväxling 1527-1528, ed. J. H. Schröder. Upsal., 1854. 4^o.

Contains a few letters between Bishop Brask and Gustavus Vasa. Is supplementary to Brask's
letters as published in LINKÖPING and in Handl. rör. Sver. hist., vols. xiii.-xviii.

Svenska riksdagsakter jämte andra handlingar söm höra til statsförfattningens historia under
tidehvarfvet 1521-1718. Ie delen, ed. Emil Hildebrand & Oskar Alin. Stockh., 1887-1888. 8^o.

Sverges traktater med främmande magter, ed. O. S. Rydberg. Stockh., 1877-1887. 3 vols. 8^o.

THEINER, Augustin. Schweden und seine Stellung zum heiligen Stuhl under Johann III., Sigismund
III. und Karl IX. Augsburg, 1838-1839. 2 vols. 8^o.

Contains a few documents of the time of Gustavus Vasa relating to Church matters.

VESTERGÖTLANDS FORMINNESFÖRENING. Tidskrift, ed. C. J. Ljungström. Lund, 1869-1877. 3 vols. 8^o.

ÖSTERGÖTLANDS FORMINNESFÖRENING. Tidskrift. Linköp., 1875. 8^o.

II. AIDS.

    [In this list are included the chief works bearing on Gustavus Vasa,
    and written during or since the year 1600.]

ALLEN, Carl Ferdinand. De tre nordiske Rigers Historie under Hans, Christiern den Anden, Frederik
den Første, Gustav Vasa, Grevefeiden. Kjøbenhavn, 1864-1872. 5 vols. 8^o.

ANJOU, Lars Anton. Swenska Kyrkoreformationens historia. Upsal., 1850-1851. 3 vols. 8^o. [Eng.
trans., N. Y., 1859. 8^o.]

ARCHENHOLTZ, Johann Wilhelm von. Geschichte Gustav Wasa's, König's von Schweden. Tubing., 1801.
2 vols. 8^o. [French trans., Paris, 1803. 2 vols. 8^o.]

BAAZIUS, Johannes. Inuentarium Ecclesiae Sueo-Gothorum, continens integram historiam Ecclesiae
Suecicae libb. viii. descriptam. Lincopiae, 1642. 4^o.

Berättelse om oroligheterna i södra Swerige, til följe af Nils Dackes upror, med flera märkelige
händelser, som sig under K. Gustaf d. I.'s regering tildragit. Utgifwen efter et gammalt manuscript.
Stockh., 1781, 16^o.

Biographiskt lexicon öfver namnkunnige Svenska män. Upsal. & Örebro, 1835-1857. 2 vols. 8^o.
& nya serien, Örebro & Stockh., 1857-1883. 9 vols. 8^o.

CELSIUS, Olof. Konung Gustaf den Förstes historia. 3e uplag., Lund, 1792. 2 vols. 8^o.

[CHAPMAN, Rev.] The history of Gustavus Vasa, king of Sweden. With extracts from his correspondence.
Lond., 1852. 8^o.

Expeditio Danica aduersus Holmiam anno 1518. Author and source unknown.

FLAUX, Armand de. La Suède au XVI^e. siècle. Histoire de la Suède pendant la vie et sous la
règne de Gustave I^er. Paris, 1861. 8^o.

FORSSELL, Hans. Sveriges inre historia från Gustaf den Förste, med särskildt afseende på förvaltning
och ekonomi. Stockh., 1869-1875. 2 vols. 8^o.

FRYXELL, Anders. Berättelser ur svenska historien. Stockh., 1823-1848. 10 vols. 8^o. [Eng.
trans., Lond., 1844. 2 vols. 12^o.]

GEIJER, Erik Gustaf. Svenska folkets historia. Örebro, 1832-1836. 3 vols. 8^o. [Eng. trans.,
Lond., 1845. 8^o.]

GIESELER, Johann Carl Ludwig. Lehrebuch der Kirchengeschichte. Bonn, 1824-1853. 3 vols. 8^o.
[Eng. trans., N. Y., 1857-1880. 5 vols. 8^o.]

GIRS, Aegidius. Konung Gustaff's den I. och Erich's den XIV. chrönikor. Stockh., 1670. 4^o.

GRUBB, Christopher Lorenz. Breuiarium Gustauianum: thet är, ett kort uthtogh aff K. Gustaffz
den Förstes historia. Linköp., 1671. 4^o.

HALLENBERG, Jonas. Historisk afhandling on mynt och warors wärde i Swerige, under Konung Gustaf
I.'s regering. Stockh., 1798. 8^o.

HALLMAN, Johan Gustaf. The Twenne bröder och Neriksboer, som then Evangeliska läran införde
uti Norlanden, then äldre Mest. Oluff Petri Phase, första Evangeliska Kyrkioherde öfwer Stockholms
stad, then yngre Mest. Lars Petri hin gamle, första Evangeliska Erkiebiskop uti Upsala. Stockh.,
1726. 4^o.

HVITFELD, Arild. Danmarks Riges Krønike tilligemed Bispekrøniken. Kiøbenhaffn, 1595-1604. 10
vols. 8^o.

JOHANSSON, Johan. Om Noraskog. Äldre och nyare anteckningar. Stockh., 1875-1882. 2 vols. 8^o.

KEMPENSKIÖLD, Samuel. Historiae serenissimi et potentissimi principis ac domini, Domini Gustaui
Primi, Suecorum, Gothorum, Wandalorumque regis, libri V. Strengnesiae, 1648. 12^o.

KEMPIUS, Samuel. Historiae potentissimi et Christianissimi principis ac domini Gustaui I. Strengnesiae,
1629. 8^o.

LOCCENIUS, Johan. Antiquitatum Sueo-Gothicarum, cum huius aeui moribus, institutis ac ritibus
indigenis pro re nata comparatarum libri tres. 2a ed., Holmiae, 1654. 8^o.

LOCCENIUS, Johan. Rerum Suecicarum historia a Rege Berone tertio usque ad Ericum decimum quartum
deducta. Holmiae, 1654. 8^o.

MESSENIUS, Johan. Chronicon episcoporum per Sueciam Gothiam et Finlandiam. Cuilibet successiue
dioccesi, ab anno DCCCXXXV. ad praesentem usque MDCXI. praesidentium uitam complectens. Stockh.,
1611. 8^o.

MESSENIUS, Johan. Scondia illustrata, seu chronologia de rebus Scondiae, hoc est, Sueciae,
Daniae, Noruegiae, atque una Islandiae, Gronlandiaeque, tam Ecclesiasticis quam politicis;
a mundo cataclysmo, usque annum Christi MDCXII. Stockholmiae, 1700-1705. 15 vols. f^o.

MEURS, Jan de. Historia Danica usque ad annum 1523. [In his Opera omnia, Florentiae, 1741-1763,
12 vols. f^o., vol. ix. pp. 1-992.]

Nouvelle biographie générale. Paris, 1862-1870. 46 vols. 8^o. vol. xxii. pp. 863-872. Gustave
I^er Wasa, par A. de Lacaze.

PALUDAN-MÜLLER, C. Grevens Feide. Kjøbenhavn, 1853-1854. 2 vols. 8^o.

Relatio historica de duobus Gustauis regibus Sueciae, auo et nepote, Augustanae confessionis,
Augustis defensoribus. Das ist: historische Relation, von Zweyen Königen in Schweden, Gustavo
dem Ersten, und Gustavo dem Andern. Stralsund, 1632. 4^o.

REUTERDAHL, Henrik. Swenska Kyrkans historia. Lund, 1838-1866. 4 vols. 8^o.

RHYZELIUS, Anders Olofsson. Episcoposcopia Suiogothica. Linköp., 1752. 2 vols. 4^o.

RÖMER, Rudolf Cornelius Heinrich. Specimen historico-theologicum, de Gustauo I., rerum sacrarum
in Suecia, saec. XVI. instauratore. Traj. ad Rhen., 1840. 8^o.

SCOTT, Sarah [Henry Augustus Raymond]. The history of Gustavus Ericson, king of Sweden. With
an introductory history of Sweden, from the middle of the twelfth century. Lond., 1761. 8^o.

STRINNHOLM, Anders Magnus. Svenska folkets historia under konungarne af Wasa-ätten. Stockh.,
1819-1823. 3 vols. 8^o.

SVEDELIUS, Vilhelm Erik. Om Konung Gustaf den Förste och hans tidehvarf särdeles de tvenne
förste s.k. Dalkarlsupproren. Stockh., 1861. 8^o.

Sveriges historia från äldsta tid till våra dagar. Stockh., 1877-1881. 6 vols. 8^o. Vol. ii.
by Hans Hildebrand, and vol. iii. by Oskar Alin.

TEGEL, Erik. Then stoormechtighe, höghborne furstes och Christelighe herres, der Gustaffs,
fordom Sweriges, Göthes, och Wendes konungs etc. historia. Stockh., 1622. 6^o.

TENGSTRÖM, Johan Jacob. Några blad ur Finnlands häfder för K. Gustaf I.'s regeringstid. [In
Suomi, vol. xiii. pp. 101-287. Helsingfors, 1854. 8^o.]

TYPOTIUS, Jacobus. Relatio historica de regno Sueciae et bellis ciuilibus atque externis. Francof.,
1605. 16^o.

VERTOT, René Aubert de. Histoire des révolutions de Suède. Paris, 1695. 2 vols. 12^o. [Eng.
trans., Glasg., 1761. 8^o.]

VINGQVIST, Olof. Om svenska representationen i äldre tider, till och med riksdagen år 1617.
Stockh., 1863. 8^o.

WEIDLING, Julius. Schwedische Geschichte im Zeitalter der Reformation. Gotha, 1882. 8^o.

WILLEBRANDT, Johann Peter. Hansische Chronick. Lübeck, 1748. f^o.

ÖRNHJELM, Claudius. Relation om bispars, kanikers, praebendaters och closters jordegods. [In
Handl. rör. Skand. hist., vol. xxi. pp. 218-279.]

From a MS. written by command of the king of Sweden in 1691.

ÖRNHJELM, Claudius, and others. Relation, med bijlagde documenter, om biskops-canonie-prebende-sampt
kyrckie och kloster-gods, och deras reduction. [In Handl. rör. Skand. hist., vol. xxi. pp.
280-357, and vol. xxii. pp. 313-418.]

From a MS. written by command of the king of Sweden in 1691.

INDEX.

 Adrian VI., appoints Johannes Magni his legate, 126-127;
   death of, 128;
   orders Gustavus to restore Trolle, 134.

 Albert of Mecklenburg, king of Sweden, 12-13.

 Amsterdam, Magni is sent to, 211.

 Anabaptists, fanaticism of, 165-167.

 Andreæ (Laurentius), his friendship for Petri, 155;
   writes concerning Luther, 160-161;
   is made archdeacon of Upsala, 163;
   Gustavus writes to, 203;
   sends translation of New Testament, 231;
   addresses Diet of Vesterås, 248-249;
   is chosen to approach the king, 253.

 Andreæ (Nils) is made prior of Vesterås, 226.

 Apostles, authority of, 233-236.

 Arboga, Cabinet meeting at, 42;
   Gustavus quarrels with monks of, 241-242.

 Arcimboldo, is sent as ambassador by Christiern to Sture, 48-50;
   reappoints Ulfsson to the archbishopric, 56-57;
   his withdrawal from Sweden, 58.

 Aristocracy, origin of, 6-9.

 Armigers, origin of, 8.

 Assemblies (county), 4-5 and 8.

 Assemblies (provincial), 4-5 and 8.

 Baner (Sigrid), grandmother of Gustavus Vasa, 2.

 Bible, translation of, 221-223;
   authority of, 233-236.

 Birgitta, grandmother of Gustavus Vasa, 3 and note 2.

 Bjelke, influence of family of, 16.

 Bleking, is invaded by Norby, 178 and 183-184;
   is granted to Norby, 185;
   hostilities of Norby in, 193-194;
   Norby is driven from, 197-200.

 Bonde, influence of family of, 16.

 Brabant, privileges granted to, 211.

 Brask (Hans), places note under his seal, 103;
   joins the Swedish cause, 103-104;
   avoids the Diet of Strengnäs, 113;
   is called upon to aid the crown, 129-130;
   informs the pope that Church property is being confiscated, 133-134;
   is called upon to furnish aid for expedition against Gotland, 140-141
         and 142-143;
   denounces Fredrik to Gustavus, 145;
   is oppressed by Gustavus, 149-150;
   charges Petri with heresy, 156;
   writes to Magni concerning heresy, 157-158;
   writes concerning Luther, 161-163;
   his love for the Church, 164;
   protests against the marriage of Petri, 169-171 and 224;
   suspects Fredrik, 171;
   writes about Christina, 179;
   writes about Norby, 198;
   writes about Sunnanväder, 202;
   writes about the tax, 206;
   writes about the treaty with Holland, 210-211;
   writes about Dalarne, 213-214;
   opposes translation of the Bible, 222-223;
   his dispute with Gustavus about a monastery, 228;
   is oppressed by Gustavus, 229-231;
   incurs wrath of Gustavus, 232;
   protests against disputation, 233;
   his action at Diet of Vesterås, 246-250;
   fall of, 262-266;
   his character, 266-267.

 Brännkyrka, battle at, 51-52.

 Bremen, congress to be held in, 210.

 Brun (Søren), capture of, 192.

 Cabinet, its origin and constitution, 9-11;
   its encroachments, 11-25;
   slaughter of, 113;
   Gustavus admits foreigners into, 150;
   usurps authority in Diet of Vesterås, 257;
   its composition under Gustavus, 271;
   is humbled by Gustavus, 273.

 Cecilia, mother of Gustavus Vasa, 3-4.

 Charles V. receives Christiern into Burgundian League, 80;
   Norby enlists under, 200;
   signs treaty with Sweden, 210.

 Charles XII., his influence in Sweden, 220-221.

 Christianity, introduction of, into Sweden, 5-6.

 Christiern I., king of Denmark, 16-17.

 Christiern II., king of Denmark, his character, 33-34;
   his early life, 34;
   his passion for Dyveke, 34-35;
   his interview with Gustaf Trolle, 37-38;
   attacks Sweden, 44-45;
   is defeated by Sture, 45-46;
   seeks to form truce with Sture, 48-50;
   his expedition against Sweden, 50-51;
   is defeated at Brännkyrka, 51-52;
   treachery of, 53-54;
   renews his efforts to recover Sweden, 57-58;
   appeals to the pope, 62;
   sails with his fleet to Sweden, 71-72;
   lays siege to Stockholm, 76-77;
   enters Stockholm in triumph, 77-78;
   is crowned, 78-80;
   slaughters the Swedish magnates, 81-83;
   opposition to, 109;
   is deposed, 112;
   his failures, 117;
   is charged with murdering Swedish bishops, 126;
   opposition of Fredrik and Gustavus to, 147;
   Norby's alliance with, 175 and 177;
   his efforts to recover Sweden, 190-193 and 198-199.

 Christina. See Gyllenstjerna (Christina).

 Christina, wife of King Hans, defends the castle of Stockholm, 22.

 Christopher of Bavaria, is elected king of Sweden, 15-16.

 Church, early encroachments of, 5-6;
   sides with Denmark against Sweden, 17-25;
   riches of, 122-124;
   Gustavus oppresses, 149-150;
   is taxed to pay Lubeck, 204;
   Gustavus opposes her on grounds of faith, 221-245;
   Gustavus deprives her of her power, 254-262;
   humiliation of, 271.

 Clement VII., pope, 136.

 Coinage, debasement of, 107-108;
   alterations in, 122 and note.

 Copenhagen, youth of Christiern II. in, 34;
   Norby proceeds to, 185;
   Norby is asked to proceed to, 199.

 Dalarne, rebellion in, 15;
   Sten Sture gains support in, 20;
   Svante Sture is supported by, 23;
   description of, 85;
   Gustavus seeks to rouse the people of, 85-87;
   Gustavus is recalled by the people of, 88-89;
   becomes the centre of the Revolution, 92;
   hardihood of people of, 93;
   Gustavus recruits forces in, 107;
   grievances of, 153-154;
   conspiracy in, 176-177;
   efforts of Gustavus to stay discontent in, 181-183;
   dissension in, 213-215;
   impostor goes to, 218-219;
   Gustavus writes to, 227-228;
   Gustavus tries to appease, 242-246;
   Andreæ condemns rebellion in, 248;
   Diet of Vesterås discusses rebellion in, 254-256;
   Brask is charged with conspiracy in, 263.

 Dalelf, description of, 85;
   Danish camp at, 93.

 Dantzic, Christina seeks aid from, 67;
   privileges granted by Sweden to, 114 and 209-212;
   Christina's son returns from, 172.

 Denmark, struggle between Sweden and, 13-25, and 35-117;
   "klippings" repudiated in, 143.

 Dyveke becomes mistress of Christiern II., 34-35.

 East Friesland, privileges granted to, 211.

 Engelbrektsson (Engelbrekt), rebellion under, 15.

 Erik of Pomerania, is chosen king of Sweden, 13;
   his career, 14-15.

 Eriksson, takes part in storming of Vesterås, 96-98;
   of Upsala, 98-99.

 Eriksson (Nils), is placed in command of Kalmar, 174-175.

 Falun, Gustavus plunders, 92.

 Fathers, dispute concerning authority of, 233-236.

 Finland, Gustavus sends force to, 105;
   Norby goes to rescue of, 106;
   Swedish possessions in, 131;
   is subdued by Gustavus, 138;
   Norby asks for land in, 178;
   Norby is said to be about to attack, 198;
   Gustavus writes to, 199;
   her part in the treaty with Russia, 207-208.

 France, her hatred of Christiern, 109.

 Francisco of Potentia, is said to have been made bishop of Skara, 137.

 Fredrik, duke of Schleswig-Holstein, his opposition to Christiern, 109;
   is chosen king of Denmark, 112;
   resigns his claim to Sweden, 131;
   delays matter of Gotland, 139-140;
   requests postponement of congress, 144-145;
   is said to be in league with Norby, 146-147;
   takes part in congress at Malmö, 147-148;
   his relations with Norby, 174-175;
   is deceived by Norby, 177-178;
   his treachery toward Gustavus, 178-179;
   makes war on Norby, 184-185;
   grants Bleking to Norby, 185;
   his show of friendship to Gustavus, 190-196;
   defeats Norby, 199-200;
   his action concerning Knut and Sunnanväder, 200-202;
   negotiates with Gustavus, 215-217.

 Gad (Hemming), supporter of Sten Sture, 19;
   reconciles Svante Sture to Sten Sture, 21;
   is elected bishop of Linköping, 21;
   his election is not ratified, 22;
   besieges Stockholm, 22;
   his character, 33;
   is captured by Christiern, 53-54;
   allies himself with Christiern, 75-76.

 Galle (Peder), professor in University of Upsala, 27;
   holds disputation with Petri, 168-169;
   Brask writes to, 224;
   holds another disputation with Petri, 232-236;
   wrangles at Diet of Vesterås, 252-253.

 Germany, her share in the Reformation, 119-120.

 Ghent, Magni goes to, 212.

 Gotland, Swedish Cabinet demands, 18;
   Gustavus plans expedition against, 138-141;
   opening of war against, 145-146;
   decision of congress at Malmö concerning, 147-148;
   folly of expedition against, 150;
   Norby offers to surrender, 178;
   retains ammunition of Gustavus in, 192;
   is said to have been handed over to the Danes, 198;
   Gustavus demands, 217;
   Brask goes to, 266.

 Gregory, authority of, 234-235.

 Gripsholm, Gustavus seizes monastery of, 226-228 and 244-245;
   Diet of Vesterås discusses seizure of, 254.

 Guilds, in Stockholm, 30-31.

 Gustavus. See Vasa (Gustavus).

 Gyllenstjerna (Christina), marries Sten Sture the Younger, 24;
   her character, 32;
   her bravery, 66;
   refuses to parley with the Danes, 67 and 68;
   battles with the Danes, 68-69;
   surrenders Stockholm, 76-77;
   is summoned before Christiern, 82;
   is imprisoned in Denmark, 83;
   her projected alliance with Norby, 172;
   is suspected of conspiracy against Gustavus, 179;
   is said to have been imprisoned by Gustavus, 181 and 182;
   impersonation of her boy, 218-219.

 Hans, king of Denmark, 17;
   his hostility to Sten Sture, 18-21;
   is recognized as king, 21;
   is forced to flee, 22;
   death of, 25;
   his words about Gustavus Vasa, 25-26.

 Hanse Towns, send aid to Christina, 69;
   are said to have sent stores to Christiern, 94;
   privileges granted to, 114 and 209-212;
   importance of Gotland to, 139;
   their share in the congress at Malmö, 175.

 Haraldsson (Magnus), is elected bishop of Skara, 133.

 Helgeandsholm, island near Stockholm, 29-30.

 Holland, Christiern II. raises force in, 198;
   Sweden forms treaty with, 209-212.

 Hoya (Johan von), infatuation of Gustavus for, 150;
   honors conferred on, 152;
   is sent as ambassador to Russia, 207.

 Italy, her feeling toward the Church, 120.

 Johansson (Erik), father of Gustavus Vasa, his early history, 3-4;
   hostility to King Hans, 25;
   is member of Cabinet, 26;
   is commandant of Kastelholm Castle, 26.

 Jonsson (Bo), chancellor of the Swedish Cabinet, 13.

 Kalmar, landing of Gustavus at, 62;
   Christiern proceeds against, 72;
   rejects Gustavus, 73-74;
   is besieged by Vestgöte, 110;
   fall of, 112-113;
   Mehlen sails to, 148;
   liberality of Gustavus to, 149;
   Christina's son arrives at, 172;
   Mehlen is deposed from command of, 174;
   Gustavus writes to people of, 175-176;
   Christina's boy is kept in, 179;
   resists Gustavus, 179-180;
   treachery of Mehlen at, 186-187;
   siege of, 187-188;
   fall of, 189;
   wreck at, 194-195;
   Gustavus sends fleet to, 199.

 "Kalmar Recess," its nature, 18;
   violation of its terms, 19 and 21.

 Kalmar Union, its formation, 13-14.

 Kalö, the place of imprisonment of Gustavus, 54-55;
   escape of Gustavus from, 59-60.

 Karlsson (Magnus), grandfather of Gustavus Vasa, 3.

 "Klippings," their character, 107-108;
   are forbidden by Danish commandant of Stockholm, 122, note;
   are refused by the soldiers of Gustavus, 128;
   Gustavus apologizes for, 132-133;
   are repudiated in Sweden, 143-144 and note;
   Gustavus writes to Dalarne about, 153;
   Gustavus is denounced for, 182.

 Knights, origin of, 8.

 Knipperdolling, fanaticism of, 165-167.

 Knut, is deposed from deanery of Vesterås, 138;
   joins conspiracy against Gustavus, 177;
   is given comfort in Norway, 178;
   Gustavus demands surrender of, 191;
   execution of, 200-203.

 Knutsson (Karl), regent of Sweden, 15-16.

 Kristersson (Johan), grandfather of Gustavus Vasa, 3.

 Krumpen (Otto), is placed in command of Danish forces, 63;
   makes treaty with the Swedes, 67;
   his ineffectual effort to subdue Christina, 68;
   defeats the Swedes at Upsala, 69-71;
   holds conference with Christiern, 76;
   is knighted by Christiern, 80.

 Köping, battle at, 95-96.

 Lapland, Swedish depredations in, 208.

 Leo X., appoints Arcimboldo to sell indulgences, 48;
   appoints tribunal to investigate affairs in Sweden, 62;
   excommunicates Sture, 62;
   is approached by Johannes Magni, 126.

 Lindholm, description of, 1.

 Linköping, Gad is elected bishop of, 21;
   palace of bishop of, is besieged, 76;
   tax to be paid by bishop of, 205-206;
   is said to be at heart of conspiracy in Dalarne, 263.

 Louvain, University of, 126.

 Lubeck, flight of Gustavus to, 60-61;
   her hatred of Christiern, 109;
   sends fleet to Gustavus, 109-110;
   privileges granted by Sweden to, 114 and 209-212;
   debt of Sweden to, 121 and notes 1 and 2;
   demands payment of her loan to Sweden, 128-130;
   is asked to send delegates to congress at Malmö, 146;
   congress of Hanse Towns to be held at, 148;
   captures Visby, 184-185;
   her position in the Swedish Revolution, 190;
   is said to have fortified Gotland, 198;
   her negotiations with Gustavus, 203-206;
   tries to secure payment of debt, 213-215;
   her feeling toward the Reformation, 239.

 Lund, archbishop of, investigates affairs in Sweden, 62;
   accompanies Christiern II. in expedition against Sweden, 72.

 Luther (Martin), causes dread in Sweden, 154;
   Petri becomes pupil of, 155-156;
   feelings of Gustavus toward, 158;
   Andreæ writes concerning, 160-161;
   Brask writes concerning, 161-163;
   danger of his teaching, 165-168;
   his translation of the Bible, 221-223;
   Gustavus says he has not adopted teaching of, 236-238 and 245;
   his reforms are embodied in Swedish law, 246;
   clergy refuse to accept teaching of, 247-248.

 Magni (Johannes), early life of, 126;
   is appointed legate by Adrian VI., 127;
   is elected archbishop of Sweden, 133;
   is ordered to Rome to obtain confirmation, 134-135;
   Gustavus writes about the pope to, 137;
   his efforts to repress heresy, 156-158;
   his share in the translation of the Bible, 222-223;
   banishment of, 239-240;
   comparison between Brask and, 266.

 Magni (Olaus), is sent to Rome by Gustavus, 136;
   is sent to Amsterdam by Gustavus, 211-212.

 Magni (Petrus), is elected bishop of Vesterås, 134 and 138.

 Malmö, congress at, 147-148;
   Gustavus is deceived at, 171.

 Margaret, becomes regent of Sweden, 13 and note.

 Margaret, regent of the Netherlands, forms treaty with Sweden, 212.

 Margareta, is betrothed to Hoya, 152;
   is wronged by Fredrik, 215-216.

 Mariefred, monastery of, is threatened, 76.

 Maximilian, his share in the Reformation, 120.

 Mehlen (Berent von), swears fealty to Gustavus, 105;
   is given command of expedition against Gotland, 145-146;
   withdraws from Gotland, 148;
   infatuation of Gustavus for, 150;
   fall of, 173-176;
   treachery of, 179-180;
   his flight, 186-187;
   Lubeck defends, 204.

 Melchior, fanaticism of, 165-167.

 Middle Ages, nature of, 118-119.

 Mora, Gustavus at, 87-89;
   Gustavus writes to people of, 181.

 Moscow, Swedish envoys are sent to, 207-208.

 Mälar, pours its waters into the Baltic, 28;
   Gustavus takes up hiding-place on shore of, 75.

 Natt och Dag, influence of family of, 16.

 Netherlands, form treaty with Sweden, 212.

 Nilsson (Kristiern), great-grandfather of Gustavus Vasa, 3.

 Norby, is defeated by Vestgöte, 101-102;
   relieves Stockholm, 106;
   relieves Åbo, 106;
   infests shores of Baltic, 109;
   attempts to relieve Stockholm, 110;
   sails for Denmark, 112;
   makes depredations from Gotland, 139;
   is charged with checking imports, 142;
   Fredrik is thought to be in league with, 145-148;
   Gustavus tries to delude, 171-172;
   his projected alliance with Christina, 172-173;
   Gustavus denounces, 174-175;
   deceives Fredrik, 177-178;
   Gustavus is said to be in league with, 181;
   Dalarne conspires with, 182-183;
   invades Bleking, 183-184;
   is granted fiefs in Bleking, 185;
   negotiations between Fredrik and Gustavus concerning, 191-193;
   his negotiations with Gustavus, 193-195;
   fall of, 197-200;
   his complaint to the grand duke of Russia, 208.

 North America, Revolution in, 273-275.

 Norway, Gustavus flees to, 88;
   Knut and Sunnanväder flee to, 177-178;
   Gustavus writes to Cabinet of, 191;
   pretended son of Sture in, 218-219.

 Nyköping, surrender of Castle of, 40-41.

 Oxenstjerna, influence of family of, 15-16.

 Petri (Laurentius), early life of, 155;
   wrangles at Diet of Vesterås, 252-253.

 Petri (Olaus), his early life and character, 154-156;
   is charged with heresy, 156-157;
   is appointed city clerk in Stockholm, 163;
   holds disputation with Galle, 168-169;
   his marriage, 169-171 and 224;
   holds another disputation with Galle, 232-236;
   is chosen to approach the king at Vesterås, 253;
   comparison between Brask and, 266.

 Poland, Magni is sent on embassy to, 240.

 Popes, usurpation of, 234-235;
   Gustavus fears, 238-239.

 Prussia, Fredrik's daughter sails for, 199.

 Reformation, general character of, 119-120;
   spread of, 154-156.

 Rensel, enlists in the Swedish army, 102.

 Revolution, nature of, 90-91;
   evils of Swedish, 220-221;
   comparison of Swedish Revolution with others, 272-275.

 Riddarholm, island near Stockholm, 29.

 Rome, establishes archbishopric of Upsala, 6;
   Gad is sent as ambassador to, 33;
   her share in the Reformation, 120;
   opposition of Gustavus to, 136;
   Magni plans return to, 159;
   Brask champions, 247 and 249;
   necessity that kings be sanctioned by, 268;
   Gustavus fears, 269;
   Swedish church becomes independent of, 270-271 and 273.

 Runn (Lake), Gustavus at, 85-86.

 Russia, is at war with Sweden, 17;
   is again at war with Sweden, 19;
   forms treaty with Sweden, 23;
   Norby flees to, 200;
   Gustavus ratifies treaty with 207-209.

 Rydboholm, home of Gustavus Vasa, 3-4.

 Rättvik, Gustavus at, 86-87;
   skirmish of Danish horsemen at, 88.

 Scriptures, translation of, 221-223 and 231-232;
   authority of, 233-236;
   are to be taught in schools, 260.

 Sigbrit, her influence over Christiern II., 35.

 Siljan (Lake), Gustavus at, 86-87.

 Skara, election of bishop of, 125 and 133;
   Francisco of Potentia is said to have been made bishop of, 137;
   tax to be paid by bishop of, 206;
   part of Bible to be translated by Chapter of, 222;
   Gustavus oppresses bishop of, 264;
   bishop of Vesterås consecrates bishop of, 271.

 Slagheck (Didrik), is placed at head of affairs in Sweden, 91;
   concentrates his forces at Vesterås, 93;
   is removed from office, 103;
   is beheaded, 109.

 Sledorn (Henrik), professor in University of Upsala, 27.

 Småland, Gustavus seeks to incite the people of, 75.

 Sommar (Magnus), is elected bishop of Strengnäs, 133.

 Stegeborg, is besieged by Vestgöte, 101-102;
   Gustavus inspects camp at, 102-103;
   fall of, 105;
   is granted to Hoya, 152.

 Stegeholm, revolt in, 95.

 Sten. See Sture (Sten).

 Sten Sture the Younger. See Sture (Sten) the Younger.

 Stockholm, siege of castle at, 22;
   description of, 28-31;
   is held by Christina, 68;
   Christiern arrives at, 72;
   siege of, 75-76;
   Christiern's triumphal entry into, 77-78;
   festival in, 78-80;
   carnage in, 81-83;
   Gustavus fails to capture, 100-101;
   Gustavus again lays siege to, 105-106;
   Gustavus raises siege of, 106;
   Gustavus again lays siege to, 107;
   Gustavus continues siege of, 110-111;
   is captured by Gustavus, 115-116;
   desolation of, 131.

 Sture (Sten), is chosen regent of Sweden, 16;
   is opposed by the Cabinet, 17-19;
   by King Hans of Denmark, 20-21;
   fall of, 21;
   is re-elected regent, 22;
   death of, 22;
   Gripsholm Monastery is founded by, 227.

 Sture (Sten) the Younger, his war with Erik Trolle, 24-25;
   is elected regent, 25;
   recommends Gustaf Trolle for the archbishopric, 36-37;
   discord between Trolle and, 38-44;
   his peace negotiations with Christiern, 48-50;
   battles with the Danes, 51-52;
   is duped by Christiern, 53-54;
   writes to Christiern, 57-58;
   is excommunicated, 62;
   is wounded, 63-64;
   his death, 65;
   his character, 65-66;
   his body is exhumed, 83;
   pretended son of, 218-219.

 Sture (Svante), his hostility to Sten Sture, 18-19;
   is reconciled to Sten Sture, 21;
   besieges Castle of Örebro, 22;
   is elected regent, 23;
   is deposed, 23;
   death of, 23.

 Stäket, siege of, 20;
   dispute concerning, 38-39;
   Trolle fortifies, 40-42;
   siege of, 43-44;
   fall of, 47-48.

 Svante. See Sture (Svante).

 Svensson (Erik), is elected bishop of Åbo, 136.

 Sweden, early constitution of, 4-5;
   introduction of Christianity into, 5-6;
   Reformation in, 121;
   is ruined by warfare, 220-221.

 Söderköping, printing-press of, 232.

 Södermalm, cliffs of, 28;
   Christiern pitches his camp at, 51.

 Taxation, exemption of knights and armigers from, 8;
   is provided for by Diet of Strengnäs, 115 and 128-129;
   Gustavus apologizes for, 131-133;
   people's opposition to, 141-142;
   is provided for by Cabinet, 205-206;
   trouble in Dalarne about, 213-215 and 242-244.

 Tetzel, his sale of indulgences, 120.

 Tiveden, battle at, 64.

 Tott, influence of family of, 16.

 Trolle (Erik), his hostility to Sten Sture, 19;
   endeavors to be appointed regent, 24-25;
   plans to have his son appointed archbishop, 36-37.

 Trolle (Gustaf), his character, 36;
   is appointed archbishop of Sweden. 36-37;
   hostility to Sten Sture, 38-45;
   appears before a diet in Stockholm, 46-47;
   is taken prisoner by Sture, 47-48;
   resigns his archbishopric, 57;
   becomes reconciled to Sture, 63;
   advocates declaration of allegiance to Christiern, 67;
   holds conference with Christiern, 76;
   denounces the Swedish magnates, 81-82;
   endeavors to check the power of Gustavus, 94;
   captures Upsala, 99-100;
   retires to Denmark, 109;
   Swedish Cabinet writes to the pope about, 127-128;
   Gustavus writes to Rome about, 135-136;
   Gustavus writes to Dalarne about, 154;
   is placed in command of Christiern's fleet, 198;
   Gustavus is said to favor, 245.

 Trondhem, archbishop of, protects fugitives, 196;
   returns Knut and Sunnanväder, 201-202;
   relations between pretended son of Sture and, 218-219;
   translation of Bible is sent to, 231;
   Magni communicates with, 239-240.

 Ulfsson (Jacob), archbishop of Sweden, 18;
   founds University of Upsala, 27;
   resigns the archbishopric, 36-37;
   is reappointed archbishop, 57;
   attends coronation of Christiern, 78;
   his advice to Gustavus, 83-84.

 Upsala, siege of archbishop's palace, 20;
   election of Sten Sture at, 25;
   University of, 27;
   battle at, 69-71;
   is captured by Gustavus, 98-99;
   is recaptured by Trolle 99-100;
   election of archbishop of, 133;
   heresy breaks out in, 156;
   disputation held in, 168-169;
   tax to be paid by archbishop of, 205;
   Gustavus is crowned in Cathedral of, 271.

 Vadstena, expedition against Gotland is determined at diet in, 139-140.

 Vasa, family of, 2-3;
   influence of family of, 16.

 Vasa (Gustavus), his birth, 1-2;
   his coat-of-arms, 2-3;
   his ancestry, 2-3;
   his meeting with King Hans, 25-26;
   his boyhood, 26;
   his education at Upsala, 26-27;
   is received at court, 31-32 and note;
   takes part in the battle of Brännkyrka, 51;
   is captured by Christiern, 53-54;
   is imprisoned in Denmark, 54-55;
   escapes from Kalö Castle, 59-60;
   appears in Lubeck, 60-61;
   lands at Kalmar, 61-62;
   his purpose, 72-73;
   seeks to incite the people of Småland, 74-75;
   solicits advice from Ulfsson, 83-84;
   flees to Dalarne, 84-85;
   seeks to rouse the Dalesmen, 85-87;
   flees to Norway, 87-88;
   is recalled, 88;
   is chosen leader, 89;
   recruits his army, 92-93;
   trains his soldiers, 94:
   captures Vesterås, 96-98;
   captures Upsala, 98-99;
   evacuates Upsala, 99-100;
   his unsuccessful effort to take Stockholm, 100-101;
   superintends the manœuvres of his army, 102-103;
   wins Brask to his side, 103-104;
   accepts title of Commander of Swedish Army, 104;
   prepares ambuscade for Danes, 105;
   sends force to Finland, 105;
   lays siege to Stockholm, 105-106;
   issues "klippings," 107-108;
   sends to Lubeck for a fleet, 109-110;
   continues siege of Stockholm, 110-111;
   recruits his forces, 111-112;
   calls diet at Strengnäs, 113;
   is elected king, 114;
   enters Stockholm in triumph, 115-116;
   his successes, 117;
   charges Christiern with murdering Swedish bishops, 125-126;
   summons Johannes Magni, 127;
   is called upon to pay the debt to Lubeck, 128;
   calls upon Brask to aid the crown, 129-130;
   strives to improve condition of Stockholm, 131;
   endeavors to soothe the people, 131-133;
   writes to the pope for confirmation of the bishops, 133-134;
   writes to Rome about Trolle, 135-136;
   writes to Rome again and to Magni, 136-137;
   deposes bishop and dean of Vesterås, 137-138;
   subdues Finland, 138;
   plans expedition against Gotland, 138-140;
   appeals to Brask for aid, 140-141;
   lays the odium of the new tax on Brask, 141-143;
   communicates with Fredrik concerning Gotland, 144-145;
   begins war with Gotland, 145-146;
   takes part in the congress at Malmö, 147-148;
   oppresses Brask, 149-150;
   holds Cabinet meeting to improve trade, 150-153;
   his feelings toward Luther, 157-159;
   writes concerning Luther, 162-163;
   his purpose in opposing the Church, 163;
   his treatment of the Anabaptists, 167;
   holds a disputation, 168-169;
   discusses the marriage of Petri, 170-171;
   deposes Mehlen, 173-176;
   tries to quell insurrection in Dalarne, 176-177;
   his distrust of Fredrik, 178-179;
   his distrust of Christina, 179;
   is opposed in Kalmar, 179-180;
   summons diet to stay discontent, 180-183;
   fights Norby, 184;
   is displeased with Fredrik, 185-186;
   captures Kalmar, 186-189;
   his negotiations with Fredrik, 190-193;
   his communications with Norby, 194-195;
   his communications concerning Knut and Sunnanväder, 195-197;
   his movements against Norby, 197-199;
   executes Knut and Sunnanväder, 200-203;
   negotiates about debt to Lubeck, 203-206;
   forms treaty with Russia, 207-209;
   with Holland, 209-212;
   negotiates with the Dalesmen, 213-215;
   with Fredrik, 215-217;
   with the archbishop of Trondhem, 218-219;
   orders Bible to be translated, 222-223;
   oppresses the monasteries, 224-226;
   seizes Gripsholm, 228;
   oppresses Brask, 229-231;
   denies charge of favoring Luther, 231;
   calls a disputation, 232-234;
   seeks to soothe the Dalesmen, 236-238;
   oppresses Magni, 238-240;
   oppresses Åbo and Arboga, 240-242;
   communicates with the Dalesmen, 242-246;
   humiliates the Church at Vesterås, 246-247;
   opens the diet, 248-249;
   resigns the crown, 250-251;
   watches his enemies, 251-252;
   is begged to withdraw his resignation, 253-254;
   his demands are granted by the diet, 254-261;
   sends out announcement to the people, 261-262;
   oppresses Brask, 262-266;
   delays confirmation of the bishops, 269;
   sends out invitations to coronation, 269-270;
   consents to confirmation of the bishops, 270-271;
   is crowned, 271-272;
   considerations on his career, 272-275;
   bibliography of, 283-284.

 Vend Cities, alliance with Sweden, 23;
   privileges granted by Sweden to, 209-211.

 Vesterås, siege of, 69;
   fall of, 77;
   Danish forces are concentrated at, 93;
   Gustavus captures, 96-98;
   castle is reinforced by Danes, 104-105;
   castle surrenders, 106;
   election of new bishop of, 125 and 134;
   fair at, 131;
   Gustavus deposes bishop and dean of, 138;
   tax to be paid by bishop of, 206;
   trouble with the Dominican monks of, 225-226;
   closing of mint at, 244;
   Diet of, 246-262;
   consecrates the other bishops, 270-271.

 "Vesterås Ordinantia," terms of, 258-260.

 "Vesterås Recess," terms of, 257-258.

 Vestgöte (Arvid), lays siege to Stegeborg, 101-102;
   captures Stegeborg, 105;
   besieges Kalmar, 110;
   captures Kalmar, 112-113;
   his depredations in Öland, 230.

 Vexiö, tax to be paid by bishop of, 206;
   receives authority from Rome, 270-271.

 Viken, dispute between Fredrik and Gustavus about, 216-217.

 Visby, leader of the Hanseatic League, 139;
   siege of, 146-147;
   Mehlen's conduct in siege of, 173;
   is captured by Lubeck, 184-185;
   ammunition of Gustavus kept in, 192.

 Washington (George), comparison between Gustavus and, 274.

 West Friesland, privileges granted to, 211.

 Wittenberg, Petri studies at, 155.

 Zealand, privileges granted to, 211.

 Åbo, is besieged by Gustavus, 105;
   forces of Gustavus are routed at, 106;
   death of bishop of, 134;
   election of bishop of, 136;
   tax to be paid by bishop of, 205-206;
   Gustavus quarrels with Chapter of, 241;
   is not represented at Diet of Vesterås, 246;
   bishop of Vesterås consecrates bishop of, 271.

 Öland, depredations of Vestgöte in, 230.

 Örebro, siege of castle at, 22.

University Press, Cambridge: John Wilson & Son.