
The colonists, in spite of every impediment they may have to encounter, cannot much longer
remain insensible to the advantages which they possess, who have already followed the wise
example of this gentleman: these they will daily behold in the enjoyment of comparative ease
and happiness, and in possession of a certain progressive income, exposed to few or no contingencies,
and dependent on no man for its extent and duration; while on the other hand, they will find
that their own income must not only diminish every year, but also rest for its continuance
on the good pleasure of their governor, who, if he should even possess the will, would not
want the power to enlarge it to any considerable amount, and who, should he be their enemy,
might at any time reduce it to nothing. The manifest superiority, therefore, which the proprietors
of fine woolled possess over those of coarse woolled sheep, would alone suffice in the end
to draw the attention of all the sheep-holders in the colony to the improvement and perfection
of the wool of their flocks. This is happily a much easier task at present than at the period
when Mr. Mac Arthur first entered on the system of crossing. At that epoch there were few sheep
in the colony, but such as had been introduced from the East Indies, which it is well known
are entirely covered with hair. This race, so disgusting in its appearance to Englishmen, has
long since disappeared; nor are there any sheep at present, whose wool could be termed actually
coarse: the wool of the Leicester breed is perhaps the coarsest that could any where be found.
A few years continual crossing with Spanish tups would consequently suffice to cover all the
sheep in the colony with fine wool. Three crosses which under a proper system would occupy
about six years, would be sufficient, if the government would employ the means at their disposal,
to accomplish this great national object. The number of sheep in the month of November last
amounted, as it has already been seen, to 170,920; out of which, as I have just stated, 10,000
are of the pure Spanish breed or nearly: it may therefore be perceived what an immense exportation
of this precious article might take place in a few years, under judicious and politic regulations.

No country in the world is perhaps so well adapted to the growth of fine wool as this colony.
There is in its climate alone, a peculiar congeniality for the amelioration of wool, which
has been found of itself to occasion in a few years, a very perceptible improvement in the
fleeces of the coarsest description of sheep. Even the East India breed, entirely covered with
hair, produce without being crossed with a finer race a progeny, the superiority of whose fleece
over that of the parent stock is visible in every remoter generation. This amazing congeniality
of climate is supported by local advantages of equal if not greater importance. For hundreds
of miles into the interior, the country has been found to be covered with the richest pasturage,
and every where intersected with rivulets of the finest water. A constant succession of hill
and dale diversifies the whole face of the country, which is so free from timber, that in many
places there are thousands of acres without a tree.

The settlements at the Derwent and Port Dalrymple, though situated in a colder climate, and
therefore in all probability not equally congenial to the growth of fine wool, afford the same
excellent pasture, and contain in every respect besides, the same facilities for the rearing
of Spanish sheep, whose fleeces it is reasonable to expect on comparing the climate of these
settlements, with that of Saxony, would not degenerate, if the same system which prevails in
that country were followed in the management of sheep in this.

Saxony is situated between the 50th and 51st parallels of north latitude; and Van Diemen's
Land, on the northern and southern parts of which these two settlements are formed, between
the 41st and 43d degrees of south; so that allowing for the superior coldness of the southern
hemisphere, the whole of this island possesses a climate more congenial to the growth of wool,
than the finest parts of a country, whose wool exceeds in value that of Spain and Italy. The
settlers, however, have not yet opened their eyes to the advantage of having fine woolled flocks,
although they have for many years past had but a very limited market for their mutton, and
the government there, as at Port Jackson, have made no efforts to turn their attention to this
object.

This unaccountable indifference to a matter of such vast political importance, it is to be
hoped will at length be followed by a proper degree of attention and encouragement. Among all
the various ends proposed by our extended colonial system, none perhaps is more intrinsically
worthy the cordial undeviating support of his majesty's government, than the one in question.
In twenty years, the extensive exportation which might be effected under proper regulations
in this single article, would alone raise the colonists from the point of depression and misery
to which they have been reduced, to as high a pitch of affluence and prosperity as is enjoyed
by any portion of his majesty's subjects in any quarter of the globe. Before the expiration
of that period, I am convinced that they might be enabled to ship for this country, at least
a million's worth of fine wool annually; and for the accomplishment of this vast national object,
it would not be necessary for this country to expend one far-thing more than is at present
wasted in prosecution of a system of mere secondary importance, and having little or no bearing
on the eventual prosperity of the colony. It is only by establishing this prosperity on a solid
basis, by encouraging the growth of exports, until they rise to a level with its imports, that
it can be converted from an unproductive and ruinous dependency into a profitable and important
appendage. Whenever it shall have attained this point of advancement, whenever it shall have
acquired an independence in its resources, then, and not before, will it begin to answer the
real ends of all colonization, the extension of the commerce and rescurces of the empire. Then
like some vast river of the ocean, will it pour back its majestic stream into the bosom of
its parent flood, and contribute to the circulation and salubrity of its bounteous author.

Among the various remaining articles of export, which the colony is capable of producing, and
to which the industry of its inhabitants might be gradually attracted, the last two that I
shall specify, are the vine and the olive. These, indeed, with the various productions which
I have already named, are capable of such vast extension, as to be fully adequate to absorb
all the energies of the colonists for many years to come, whatever may be the increase in their
numbers. To mention, therefore, the endless less important productions to which the climate
and soil of this colony are equally congenial, would only be to perplex their choice, and to
divert, perhaps, their industry into less productive channels. It would be superfluous to dwell
upon the happy results that would attend the general introduction and culture of these two
productions, both with reference to them as articles of internal consumption and exportation;
since it is well known how materially they contribute to the comfort and affluence of the countries
which are blessed with them. I shall, therefore, only just mention that the greatest facilities
have been lately afforded for their general culture by the same gentleman who first introduced
the Spanish sheep into the colony; and that there is only now wanting the fostering hand of
the government to occasion their further propagation.

One of the most efficacious measures that could be adopted, as well for their general introduction,
as for that of the various other valuable productions before enumerated, would perhaps be the
establishment of a colonial plantation, in which a certain number of the most enterprizing
youths might be instructed in their culture and preparation. This institution might, I am convinced,
be founded under a proper system without occasioning any considerable expence. The first step
to be taken would of course be the selection of a fit allotment of ground, which ought to be
granted to trustees, according to the usual forms of law. These should consist of a certain
number of gentlemen of consideration in the colony, who would consent to hold this office as
an honorary one, without any view to private emolument, and for the mere sake of promoting
the public weal. To place this institution near the capital, Sydney, where the greater part
of the land is already located, and besides of a very indifferent quality, ought not, by any
means, to be attempted, not only for these reasons, but also because the youth, whom it would
be the main object of this institution to train up to economical and laborious pursuits, would
run the risk of contracting the vicious habits, and falling into the excesses of that town;
a probability which a removal to a proper distance from that sink of iniquity, would effectually
provide against. The most eligible situation, perhaps, for the establishment of this highly
important institution would be some fertile spot in the cow pastures, which, as it has been
already mentioned, are injudiciously reserved for the use of the wild cattle, notwithstanding
that they have nearly disappeared.

The only two individuals who have grants of land in this district are Messrs. Mac Arthur and
Davison; and my recommendation that this institution should be formed in the same district,
is not more influenced by the fertility of its soil than by the contiguity which it would in
this case possess to the former gentleman's estate; a contiguity, which would enable him frequently
to visit it, and to afford the director of it such information as could not fail to contribute
very materially to its progress and success. It must be quite unnecessary for me to dwell on
the importance of confiding the superintendence of such an establishment to some one, who might
be duly qualified for the discharge of the duties that would be attached to it. Perhaps the
government would act wisely, if my suggestion on this head should be deemed worthy of attention,
in selecting for this office an intelligent person from the South of France, who has been accustomed
to the culture of the vine and the olive. These with tobacco, hemp, and flax, are the objects
to which, I am of opinion the attention of such an institution would be most beneficially applied.
And if, as is not improbable, it should be found impracticable to procure a person acquainted
with the culture and preparation of all these various productions, it would not be difficult
to discover among the colonists themselves men of good character possessing the knowledge in
which he might be deficient, and who might be assigned him as assistants, but still placed
under his direction and control. The encouragement which I consider should be held out to the
director, as well as to his subordinate agents, ought not to consist of stipulated salaries,
which might superinduce lethargy, and prevent them from contributing their utmost to the success
of the establishment, but of a certain proportion of the clear profits of the concern, after
the deduction of all contingent expences. What I conceive this proportion ought to be, I will
hereafter specify, as also the manner in which I would distribute the remainder. The subjects
which I propose for immediate consideration are: 1st, The manner in which this institution
might be founded; 2dly, The number and description of the candidates to be admitted, with the
manner of their occupation; and, lastly, the nature of the encouragement to be accorded them.

The means necessary for this undertaking must be unavoidably supplied by the government. "The
Police Fund" is so burdened with charges of one sort or another, that I fear it would prove
of itself inadequate to the completion of this measure; although there can be no doubt, that
most of the ends to which this fund is at present devoted are of but subordinate utility, and
might be very advantageously postponed to the object under consideration. The erection of the
different buildings that would be immediately required for the various incipient purposes of
this institution, and the supply of its inmates with provisions and the requisite implements
of husbandry during the first eighteen months of its establishment, after which period I consider
they would be fully able to administer in these respects to their own wants, would be the principal
expences to be incurred. About £6000 would suffice for these objects; while, in return, its
operation would gradually extend itself to every district, would develope and bring to maturity
various exportable commodities, which are as yet lying in embryo, and which this country does
not possess in any of her colonies; and, in fine, would be more sensibly felt, and become more
extensively beneficial, in proportion to its own progressive march towards perfection.

Secondly, With respect to the number of candidates to be admitted, they ought perhaps, in the
first instance, to be limited to fifty, although they might, and indeed ought to be subsequently
increased to not fewer than two hundred. More than those in the commencement, before a due
degree of order and economy could be introduced, would undoubtedly create confusion and an
unnecessary augmentation of expence. Fifty are as many as I conceive could be advantageously
occupied for the first two or three years. It must, however, be obvious, that the capability
of this institution for the reception and profitable employment of a greater number of pupils,
would very materially depend on the director, and be, in a great measure, accelerated or retarded
by his ability or incompetency for a due discharge of his duties.

As to the description of these candidates, it would, I consider, be proper that they should
consist of young men born in the colony, or who may have come to it with their parents; that
they should not exceed eighteen years of age, nor be under fifteen; that they should be of
docile tempers and regular habits, which points should be ascertained previously to their admittance;
and that their parents or guardians should bind them apprentice for the space of four years
to the trustees or directors of this establishment for the time being, during which period
they should renounce all control over them whatever.

I will not here pretend to prescribe all the various modes of occupation which it might be
proper to allot them; I have already enumerated those productions, the culture of which I conceive
might be most advantageously taught and disseminated by means of this institution. Others,
however, of equal and perhaps greater utility, may be hereafter suggested by persons more conversant
with the situation and interests of the colony, and ought unquestionably, if there be any such,
to become identified with those which I have specified. Whatever may be the decision of more
competent judges than myself on this subject, I may perhaps confidently venture to recommend,
that the pupils should be divided into classes, that each of these should be instructed in
a particular sort of culture at a time; and that upon the attainment of a thorough knowledge
how to cultivate and prepare any one article, and not before, their attention should be directed
to some other, and so on, till the expiration of their several apprenticeships. It would be
proper also to allow their parents or guardians the selection of the occupations in which they
might wish their children or wards to be instructed, in so far at least, as such occupations
might be compatible with any of the purposes of the institution.

And lastly, with reference to the nature and extent of the encouragements to be accorded to
the pupils, I would recommend, in order that their energies might be stretched to the greatest
possible point of extension, that six eighths of the net annual profits arising from their
labours should be set apart, and remain in the hands of the trustees, for their sole use and
benefit; and that on their retiring from this institution, the accumulated amount should be
equally divided among them, both to secure their successful establishment in life, and to render
the knowledge which they may have severally acquired, of permanent benefit to the community.
I would also recommend that the accounts both of the expenditure and profits of the institution
should be annually submitted to the trustees for their approval, and afterwards printed and
distributed among the pupils, not only for the purpose of provoking inquiry into their accuracy,
and obtaining that rectification in case of error, which it might be difficult to effect after
the lapse of five years; but also with a view to bring home to their understandings, and to
convince them beyond the possibility of doubt, of the benefits which they may have derived
from their past labours; a conviction that would prove the most cordial incentive, the most
powerful lever which could be applied to their future industry and exertion. I would lastly
recommend, that the quantity of land, and indeed that the encouragements of every kind which
the government are in the habit of granting to the ordinary class of settlers, should be increased
in a two-fold proportion to the pupils of this institution; but as it evidently would not be
expedient or equitable that those who might habitually violate the regulations to be made for
the good government of this little community, should receive on the one hand an equal recompence
with those whose conduct might have always been regular and exemplary, or that they should
be deprived on the other of their quota of the emoluments that might accumulate during the
period of their apprenticeships, I would suggest, in order to mark that due gradation which
in every well regulated society must necessarily exist in the scale of rewards to be accorded
to such as may be subordinate or refractory,--industrious, or idle; that these latter encouragements
should only be extended in this double ratio to those who might quit the establishment with
a certificate of good conduct from the director.

With regard to the allowance to be made the gentleman to whom the directorship might be confided,
I should imagine that one eighth of the clear profits arising from the institution, would be
a most liberal compensation for his trouble and attention, and that the remaining eighth would
be an equally handsome provision for the whole of his assistants: one of whom would be required
for the superintendence and instruction of each of the classes into which it might be determined
that the pupils should be divided.

Such are the principal measures which are essential to the revival of the agricultural prosperity.
I will now briefly notice the various restrictions with which the commercial interests have
been not less injudiciously fettered, and the removal of which is of the highest importance
to the progress and welfare of the colony. These may be divided into two heads, duties and
disabilities; and first, with reference to the duties with which the various articles of export
that the colonists possess or procure, have been shackled by the successive governors. The
duties in question are enumerated in the following schedule, and are levied upon the undermentioned
articles, whether they are intended for home consumption or for exportation, in which latter
case it will be seen that some few of them are even doubled.

On each ton of sandal wood                                        £2  10  0 On each ton of
pearl shells                                        2  10  0 On each ton of beche la mer  
5   0  0 On each ton of sperm oil                                           2  10  0 On each
ton of black whale or other oil                            2   0  0 On each fur seal skin 
0   0  1½ On each hair ditto                                                 0   0  0½ On each
kangaroo ditto                                             0   0  0½ On cedar or other timber
from Shoal-haven, or any other part of the coast or harbours of New South Wales (Newcastle
excepted, as the duties are already prescribed there) when not supplied by government labourers,
for each solid foot -010 For every twenty spars from New Zealand or elsewhere100On timber in
log or plank from New Zealand, or elsewhere, for each solid foot                0   1  0 For
each ton of coals from Newcastle for home consumption          0   2  6 Ditto if exported 
0   5  0 For each thousand square feet of timber for home consumption       3   0  0 Ditto
if exported                                                  6   0  0

That all these duties should be levied on these different articles, in as far as they may be
consumed in the colony, may be highly expedient; but that they should be equally levied on
exportation, and in two of the most material instances doubled, is so manifestly absurd, that
it must be quite superfluous to dilate on the subject. It is a system of policy which it may
be safely asserted is unknown in any other part of the world; and nothing but the indubitable
certainly of its existence would convince any rational person that it could ever have entered
into the contemplation of any one intrusted with the government of a colony. These duties have
had the effect which might have been expected from them; they have in most instances amounted
to actual prohibitions. Their operation, indeed, has been found so burdensome and oppressive,
that the colonial merchants have frequently petitioned the local government for relief; but
no attention whatever has been paid to their repeated representations and remonstrances. Had
it not been for the duties on coals and timber, some hundred tons of these valuable natural
productions would have been exported annually to the Cape of Good Hope and India; since the
vessels which have been in the practice of trading between those countries and the colony have
always returned in ballast; and the owners or consignees would, therefore, have gladly shipped
cargoes of timber or coals, if they could have derived the most minute profit from the freight
of them. This observation holds good in a great measure with respect to the various other articles
which have been enumerated: the exportation of the whole has been greatly circumscribed by
the same ridiculous and vexatious system of impost. It can hardly be credited that the veriest
sciolist in political economy could have been guilty of such a palpable deviation from its
fundamental principles; but it is still more unaccountable, that a succession of governors
should have pertinaciously adhered to a system of finance so absurd and monstrous.

Highly injurious, however, as are the duties which are levied in the colony, they are not nearly
so oppressive as those which are levied in this country, on spermaceti, right whale, and elephant
oils procured in vessels built in the colony. The duties on the importation of such oil into
this country, are £24 18s. 9d. for the first sort, and £8 6s. 3d. for the two last. If we add
to these enormous duties those which are levied by the authority of the local government, it
will be perceived that all the spermaceti oil procured by the colonial vessels has to pay a
duty of £28 8s. 9d. and all the right whale and elephant oil a duty of £10 6s. 3d. before it
can come into competition with the oil of the same description procured in vessels built in
the united kingdom. It has, however, been seen, that the colonists, propelled not less by that
spirit of enterprize which distinguishes Englishmen in every quarter of the globe, than by
the desire of finding profitable employment for that large portion of unoccupied labour, of
which I have hastily pointed out the causes and march for the last fifteen years, have frequently
attempted, notwithstanding these overwhelming prohibitions, to carry on these fisheries, but
always without success; and that the valuable fishery of right whales which the river Derwent
affords at a particular season, is now only resorted to, in order to procure the trifling supply
of oil which is requisite for the East India market and for internal consumption. All attempts
to export oil to this country have been for many years abandoned; since the trade could only
be maintained at a dead loss, as the ruinous experience of many of the colonial merchants has
abundantly attested. The reason why these enormous duties were imposed on oil procured in the
colonial vessels is not generally understood here, but it is universally known in the colony;
and the knowledge has materially tended to increase the dissatisfaction which the imposition
of such duties would of itself, to a certain extent, have naturally excited. The act which
authorizes these duties, is one of those smuggled acts by which, to the disgrace of our legislature,
the welfare and happiness of helpless unprotected thousands have been so frequently sacrificed
on the shrine of individual avarice or ambition. It originated in a certain great mercantile
house extensively concerned in the South Sea fisheries, and could never have been passed, had
there been a single person in either house of parliament, at all interested in the prosperity
of this colony. This act, indeed, is such a terrible deviation, such a monstrous exception
to the usual policy of this country with respect to the fisheries, that it carries with itself
the strongest internal evidence of its polluted origin. No such restrictions had ever before
been imposed on any of our colonies, as will be sufficiently evident, if we compare the duties
which are levied in this country on oils procured in the vessels belonging to the colonies
in North America and the West Indies, with those which are levied on oils procured in the vessels
fitted out from the united kingdom. While on the other hand, the duty levied on oil procured
in any other colony; (for mark, the contrivers of this act had sufficient cunning not to particularize
the unfortunate colony against which it was levied) is twenty times greater on train oil, and
oh, monstrous injustice! upwards of sixty times greater on spermaceti oil, or head-matter,
than that which is levied on similar substances taken by British subjects residing within the
limits of the united kingdom. This very unequal proportion which the duties levied on these
two sorts of oil, if procured by the inhabitants of this colony, bear to each other when compared
with the duties which are levied on the same substances if procured by the inhabitants of any
of the foregoing colonies or plantations, furnishes an additional proof, were any required,
of the correctness of my assertions with respect to the origin of the act by which they were
imposed. The house who were the authors of it, could not consistently get the duty on one description
of oil raised, without at the same time admitting the necessity for raising the duty on the
other; but as they were not interested in the right whale fishery, they were only anxious to
prevent the colonists of New South Wales from embarking in the sperm whale fishery; and could
they have accomplished this object without running the risk of discovering the covert aim of
the act in its progress through parliament, they would have gladly compromised this point with
them, and have left the right whale fishery open to them on the same conditions as it was before
the enactment of this bill. To have evinced, however, any such tolerant inclination might have
betrayed their design, and accordingly the colonists were debarred from both the fisheries;
for notwithstanding that regular gradation has by no means been adhered to in the imposition
of these duties, which had been previously observed in the scale of the duties levied in the
other colonies or plantations, they have in both instances been more than sufficient to constitute
actual prohibitions.

That any superiority of privilege whatever should have been conceded by the legislature of
this country, in the various acts which have been passed for the encouragement of the fisheries,
to British subjects residing within the limits of the united kingdom, is at best a manifest
injustice to such of her subjects as inhabit the colonies; but yet so long as this partiality
was confined within any reasonable bounds, it would not have excited any considerable feeling
of dissatisfaction. That there should, however, be any gradation in the scale of duties to
be levied on any description of merchandise procured or produced in the colonies themselves,
is a system which it is impossible to reconcile with any principle of justice or policy. Still
so long as this disproportion of impost, however unwise and unjust, did not become so burdensome
and oppressive as to confine this branch of commerce, whatever it might be, to the privileged
colony or colonies, some palliation might be offered by its advocates for its continuance,
although the warmest of them would not be able to attempt its vindication. But that any one
colony should be utterly excluded from privileges freely accorded to another, is such a monstrous
stretch of tyrannical partiality, that it never could have been deliberately discussed in a
free government, and must therefore have been contrived by the secret machinations of private
avarice and corruption.

Can any reason be adduced why British subjects residing in one colony, should be excluded from
the whale fisheries more than British subjects residing in another? Why vessels built in Canada,
Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, or the Bahama islands, should possess a privilege denied to vessels
built in New Holland or Van Diemen's Land? The whale fishery is not more contiguous to the
inhabitants of the former colonies than to those of the latter; yet every encouragement is
afforded for the carrying on of the one, and every obstacle thrown in the way of the successful
prosecution of the other. Why such a broad line of distinction is drawn, it is impossible to
divine; since the disability which is the consequence of it, is not only not in furtherance
of any of the ends contemplated by the navigation act,* but in diametrical opposition to the
whole of them. This will be evident if we refer to its preamble, and to a few of its prominent
provisions. "Whereas for the increase of shipping and encouragement of the navigation of this
nation, wherein under the good providence and protection of God, the wealth, safety, and strength
of this kingdom is so much concerned; it is enacted that no goods, or commodities whatsoever,
shall be imported into, or exported out of any lands, islands, plantations or territories to
his Majesty belonging, or in his possession, or which may hereafter belong unto or be in the
possession of his Majesty in Asia, Africa, or America, in any other vessels whatsoever, but
in such vessels as do truly and without fraud belong only to the people of England, Ireland,
or are of the built of and belonging to any of the said lands, islands, plantations, or territories
as the proprietors and right owners thereof, and whereof the master and three-fourths of the
mariners at least are English, under the penalty of the forfeiture and loss of all the goods
and commodities which shall be imported into, or exported out of any the aforesaid places,
in any other vessel, as also of the vessel with all its tackle," etc. From this, which is the
principal clause of the act, it clearly appears that British subjects in whatever part of the
empire they may happen to reside, are entitled to precisely the same privileges, and that vessels
built in any of her colonies are to all intents and purposes to be deemed of British built,
in the same manner and on the same terms and conditions as if they had been built within the
limits of the united kingdom, i. e. so long as the master and three fourths of the crew are
British subjects. That this admission to a perfect equality of privilege, was and is still
the intent not only of the navigation act, but of all the leading acts of navigation which
have been passed since, we shall be still further satisfied, if we trace them in their whole
progress to the present hour. It will not, however, be necessary to extend our examination
either way beyond the great registry act passed in the twenty-sixth year of the reign of his
present majesty, cap. 60. "By this act very considerable alteration was made in the whole concern
of registering shipping, with a view of securing to ships of the built of this country, a preference
and superiority which they had not enjoyed so completely before. Here then we have cited the
two leading clauses in the two leading acts of navigation, and both prove that the objects
which this country had in view, were to create nurseries of seamen for her navy, and to secure
to her subjects, in whatever part of her extended empire they might reside, the benefit of
the carrying trade. The imposition, therefore, of any duties on her subjects in any of her
colonies, greater than those which are levied under similar circumstances on her subjects at
home, far from being in unison with the liberal and enlightened policy of the navigation laws,
is a broad deviation from their fundamental principles, and the creation of an entire system
of exclusion, such as the one under consideration is, a fortiori, an utter violation of their
letter and spirit. That any prohibitory duties of this sort could ever have been enacted, will
appear still more surprising, if we look a little further into the policy which this country
has pursued with respect to her other fisheries, particularly the cod fishery on the banks
of Newfoundland, and parts adjacent. For when by the 15th Charles II. cap. 7. she enlarged
the scope of her great navigation act, and to the two main original objects contemplated in
this act, viz. the creation of nurseries for seamen, and the securing to her subjects the carrying
trade, she superadded a third, viz. that of making herself the entrepot for the deposit of
all goods and commodities, whether the growth, production, or manufacture of Europe, or of
her colonies, it having been foreseen that this alteration in her maritime code would be prejudicial
to the cod fisheries, and that it would most materially conduce to their prosperity and extension
still to allow salt, provisions, wine, etc. to be imported directly from various countries
not subject to the dominion of the crown of England into the colonies from whence these fisheries
are carried on, this enlarged act,*** after ordaining "that no commodity of the growth, production,
or manufacture of Europe shall be imported into any land, island, plantation, colony, territory,
or place to his Majesty belonging, or which shall hereafter belong unto, or be in the possession
of his Majesty in Asia, Africa, or America, (Tangier only excepted) but what shall be bona
fide and without fraud, laden and shipped in England, and in English built shipping, and whereof
the master and three fourths of the mariners at least are English, and which shall be carried
directly thence to the said lands, islands, plantations, colonies, territories or places, and
from no other place whatsoever, any law or usage to the contrary notwithstanding, under the
penalty of the loss of all such commodities of the growth, production, or manufacture of Europe,
as shall be imported into any of them from any other place by land or by water, and if by water,
of the vessel also in which they were imported with her tackle, etc. etc." immediately subjoins:--"Provided
that it shall be lawful to ship and lade in such ships, and so navigated as in the foregoing
clause is set down and expressed in any part of Europe, salt for the fisheries of New England
and Newfoundland, and to ship and lade in the Madeiras wines of the growth thereof, and to
ship and lade in the Western Islands, or Azores, wines of the growth of the said islands, and
to ship and take in servants or horses in**** Scotland or Ireland, and to ship or lade in Scotland
all sorts of victual, the growth or production of Scotland, and to ship and lade in Ireland
all sorts of victual of the growth or production of Ireland, and the same to transport into
any of the said lands, islands, plantations, colonies, territories or places." Here then is
an instance of a very material deviation from the spirit of the navigation laws for the sole
purpose of encouraging a fishery; but who can deny its policy? The legislature in this case
had to decide whether they would extend this great national nursery for seamen, or whether
they would check its growth by preventing the direct trade between these colonies and Europe,
Madeira, the Azores, etc. and by making herself the entrepot for the deposit and exchange of
all the produce of these fisheries on the one hand, and of the productions of Europe, etc.
etc. that were necessary for their extension on the other. The advantages that she would have
derived from such a selfish arrangement, she wisely foresaw would be more than counterbalanced
by the concomitant detriment which her maritime interests would have sustained from it. And
hence this deviation from one of the leading objects of her navigation laws, a deviation which
has not only been continued ever since, but even considerably enlarged; for many other places
are now included in the direct commerce with these colonies, as will be seen by reference to
the 46 Geo.

[* 12 Car. II. chap. 18.]

[** Reeves, second edition, p. 397.]

[*** 15 Charles II. cap. 7.]

[**** England, Ireland and Scotland, since united into one kingdom.]

I have been thus copious in extracts from the navigation laws, to prove that the great leading
principles of these laws would not only be in no wise encroached upon by allowing the inhabitants
of this colony to carry on the whale fisheries in their own vessels, but also that the duties
which were thus clandestinely imposed on oils so procured, have been a flagrant violation of
them, and that they are a single isolated exception to a general rule. Nor would the abolition
of the duties in question, and the consequent encouragement of these fisheries, prove injurious
to the British merchants at home, as must have been apprehended by those who were the authors
of the prohibitory law by which these duties were enacted. Looking, indeed, at the mere situation
of the colony, it would not be unnatural to conclude that its contiguity to the sperm whale
fisheries, on the coast of New Zealand, New Caledonia, and New Guinea, would give its inhabitants
such a decided advantage over the persons carrying on the same fisheries from this country,
that these latter would soon be forced to abandon a ruinous competition, and that she would
consequently be deprived of the very important benefits which she at present derives from it.
The fears, however, which are apt to arise on this view of the subject will be immediately
dissipated if it be considered, that the rope, canvas, casks, and gear of every description,
necessary for the outfit of the colonial vessels for these fisheries, are furnished by this
country, and can never be obtained in the colony under an advance of fifty per cent. on the
prime cost; that the sperm oil in the market is unequal to the demand for it, an assertion
proved as well by the existing bounties held out by the legislature for the encouragement of
these fisheries, as by the enormous wages gained by the seamen employed in them; that these
bounties themselves operate as a considerable prohibition to the colonists; and, lastly, that
many years must elapse before the colonial fishermen can be properly organized, and rendered
as expert as the English. These various disadvantages under which the inhabitants of this colony
labour, are all but one of a permanent nature, and it is evident will always more than counterbalance
the single local superiority which they possess, and ensure the English merchants a decided
advantage in the market;--an advantage which if it will not outstrip all competition, will
at least only just permit that salutary opposition which is essential to the prevention of
monopoly and to the interests of the public.

It must, I should imagine, by this time be quite obvious, that the removal of the duties in
question would be in complete unison with the spirit of the navigation laws, and with that
liberal and enlightened policy, which this country has on all other occasions invariably observed,
with respect to colonies in parallel circumstances. In establishing, therefore, a precedent,
I hope that I have made out a case sufficiently strong to warrant the interference of the legislature.
It may not, however, be altogether superfluous, if it be only to point out the injury which
this country has sustained from her past injustice and impolicy, just to glance at the advantages
that she would possess in future wars from having an extensive body of seamen at her disposal
in the South Pacific Ocean. Hitherto our squadrons in India have been entirely supplied with
seamen from this country, and the great mortality which takes place on that station requires
this supply to be constantly kept up. It is well known, although fewer actions take place in
the Indian seas than perhaps on any other of our maritime stations, that the number of deaths
occasioned by the influence of the climate alone are proportionally more considerable than
in any other part of the world, with the single exception, I believe, of the coast of Africa.
It becomes, therefore, a question of the greatest importance, whether considered in a political
or philanthropic point of view, to ascertain if this lamentable expenditure of human life might
not be considerably diminished by manning our ships of war in the Indian seas with the inhabitants
of New Holland. It is well known that our settlements in this vast island are situated in a
climate which forms a mean between the temperature of this country and India. There is consequently
every probability, that the persons born in these colonies would be able to support the extreme
heats of India much better than Englishmen. Be this, however, as it may, there can be no doubt
of the advantage which this country would derive from having a valuable nursery for seamen
in a situation, from which her navy in the East might at no very remote period be so easily
supplied on all occasions of emergency. This prospect cannot fail to prove an additional motive
with the government for the abolition of duties, which, if persevered in, will for ever stifle
all commercial enterprize, and debar not only the colonists themselves, but the parent country
also from the various important advantages, which I should presume it is now evident that an
uncontrolled ability to prosecute these fisheries would infallibly secure to one and the other.

With reference now to the commercial disabilities which have been imposed on this colony: the
first impediment, the removal of which may be said to be of any material importance to its
mercantile prosperity, is the clause in the East India Company's charter*, which provides,
"that it shall not be lawful for any vessel, the registered measurement whereof shall be less
than three hundred and fifty tons, other than such vessels as may be employed by the East India
Company as packets, to clear out from any port in the united kingdom for any place within the
limits of the said company's charter, or be admitted to entry at any port of the united kingdom
from any place within those limits.**" When this act was passed, the pernicious bearing of
this clause on the colony was most probably overlooked. It has been found prejudicial in the
following respects:--First, The demand for British goods is not sufficiently extensive to absorb
cargoes of such magnitude; so that when any such have arrived, they have generally been attended
with a loss to the owners, who will probably soon become too wise to continue such a hazardous
commerce. Those merchants, indeed, who were in the habit of shipping cargoes in smaller vessels
for the colonial market, before the passing of this act, have already abandoned, in a great
measure, their connexion within the colony, which is at present chiefly dependent for its supplies
of British manufactures, on the captains of the vessels employed in the transportation of convicts.
These supplies, therefore, have naturally become unequal and precarious: sometimes being unnecessarily
superabundant and cheap, and at other times being so extremely scarce and dear as to be entirely
beyond the reach of the great body of the consumers. Such great fluctuations are obviously
not more repugnant to the well being and comfort of the colonists themselves than to the mercantile
interests of this country.

[* 53 Geo. 3. c. 155.]

[** The colony of New South Wales is within these limits.]

Secondly, The tendency of this act is not less injurious to the colonists with regard to the
few articles of export which they are enabled to produce or collect for the British market.
These indeed are only three in number, wool, hides, and seal skins, and are at present very
inconsiderable in quantity; but the two former articles must necessarily increase every year,
and will at length become of great extent and importance. The probable amount of the colonial
exports has been already rated at about £28,000, out of which I consider that not more than
£15,000 worth is conveyed to this country. The remainder consists of sandal wood, beche la
mer, etc. exported principally to China. It may therefore be perceived that the whole of the
annual exports of this colony would not suffice for half the freight of a single vessel of
the size regulated by the act in question. It happens, in consequence, that the different articles
of export which the colonists collect, frequently accumulate in their stores for a year and
a half, before it becomes worth the while of the captain of any of the vessels which frequent
the colony, to give them ship-room; and even then they do it as a matter of favour, not forgetting,
however, to extort an exorbitant return for their kindness and condescension. The owners, indeed,
of these vessels are so well aware of the inability of the colony to furnish them with cargoes
on freight, that they generally manage before their departure, to contract for freights from
some of the ports in India; a precaution which increases still more perceptibly the difficulty
which the colonists experience in sending their produce to market. It must, therefore, be evident
that they suffer a two-fold injury from this act, both as it prevents a regular supply of the
colonial markets with British manufactures, and as it impedes the conveyance of their exports
to this country. It is to be hoped, then, that this unnecessary and oppressive provision of
the act will be revised, and that vessels of any burden will be suffered to trade between this
country and the colony, until its increased growth and maturity shall have rendered the revision
of obsolete efficacy.

The last disability of serious detriment to the colonists, is that their vessels cannot navigate
the seas within the limits of the East India Company's charter. I say cannot; because, although
since the late renewal of their charter vessels built in this colony are, I should apprehend,
entitled to all the privileges of other British built vessels, so long as they are navigated
according to law, it has not yet attained sufficient strength to be enabled to build vessels
of the burden of three hundred and fifty tons; and if it even possessed this ability, such
vessels could only convey the produce of the countries in the Eastern seas, to which the free
trade has lately been opened, to certain ports in the united kingdom. The colonists, therefore,
are virtually precluded from trading in their own vessels within these limits; a restriction
highly injurious to them, and of no benefit whatever to the company. Till within these few
years the vessels built at the Cape of Good Hope were subject to a similar restraint; but its
useless and oppressive tendency became so glaring, and the restraint itself so obnoxious to
the people who were suffering under it, that it was at length removed by an Order in Council,
dated 24th September, 1814, which was made by virtue of an act passed so long back as the 49th*
year of the reign of his present Majesty. By the 57th Geo. 3. c. 95. this settlement was expressly
included, for all the purposes of the act, within the limits of the East India Company's charter.
The same reasons that sufficed for granting this privilege in the one instance, are at least
equally conclusive in the other; and it is to be hoped, that the legislature will soon release
the colony of New South Wales also from so grievous and unnecessary a restraint. Indeed no
new act for this purpose is necessary; for the 57th Geo. It may, therefore, be perceived that
the disability in question might be removed by a simple Order in Council. Whenever his Majesty's
government shall have freed the colonists from this useless and cruel prohibition, the following
branches of commerce would then be opened to them: First, they would be enabled to transport
in their own vessels their coals, timber, spars, flour, meat, etc. to the Cape of Good Hope,
the Isle of France, Calcutta, and many other places in the Indian seas, in all of which markets
more or less extensive exist for these and various other productions which the colony might
furnish; Secondly, they would be enabled to carry directly to Canton the sandal wood, beche
la mer, dried seal skins, and in fact all the numerous productions which the surrounding seas
and islands afford for the China market, and return freighted with cargoes of tea, silks, nankeens,
etc. all of which commodities are in great demand in the colony, and are at present altogether
furnished by East India or American merchants, to the great detriment and dissatisfaction of
the colonial. And, lastly, they would be enabled in a short time, from the great increase of
capital which these important privileges would of themselves occasion, as well as attract from
other countries to open the fur trade with the north-west coast of America, and dispose of
the cargoes procured in China; a trade which has hitherto been** exclusively carried on by
the Americans and Russians, although the colonists possess a local superiority for the prosecution
of this valuable branch of commerce, which would ensure them at least a successful competition
with the subjects of those two nations.

[* Cap. 17.]

[** Many attempts have been made by the legislature to encourage British subjects to carry
on this commerce from the ports of the united kingdom, but they have in a great measure failed
in this object: see Convention with the King of Spain, 33 Geo, 3. c. 52. Indeed, during the
period of the Company's exclusive trade with China, it can only be successfully undertaken
by persons residing within the limits of their charter.]

Such are the principal alterations in the policy of this colony which appear most essential
to its progress and welfare. All these indeed, and many other privileges, which, though of
only secondary consideration, would tend like a constant concurrence of small rivulets to swell
and enlarge the stream of colonial prosperity, would be the natural consequences of a free
representative government. If I have, therefore, gradually ascended from effect to cause, after
the manner of experimental philosophy, I have chosen this mode of elucidation, not because
it was the only one which offered for the illustration of my subject, but because I consider
the inferences to be drawn from it more satisfactory than those to which the opposite mode
of reasoning (that of descending from generals to particulars) conducts; because it would be
as easy that the abolition of the various grievances which have been enumerated should be coeval
with the creation of the free constitution, by which such abolition would be eventually accomplished;
and lastly, because the additional tedious delay which would otherwise intervene between the
establishment of a colonial legislature, the representation of grievances by which it would
be followed, and their consequent removal,--a process that would occupy two years, might be
thus avoided; or in other words, the same period of unnecessary endurance and misery spared
to the ill fated inhabitants of this colony. In recommending, however, that the government
of this country should authorize the immediate adoption of the measures which I have proposed,
I do not mean to imply that such authorization alone would be productive of the important results
in contemplation. However extensively beneficial in their present and remote effects the privileges
thus conferred might prove, they would nevertheless be unsatisfactory and incomplete, so long
as they were unaccompanied with a government competent and willing to watch over and secure
their continuance. While it should be in the power of any individual to suspend or annul them,
what guarantee, in fact, would exist for their permanence and durability? What solid basis
on which the capital and industry, which they might be calculated to elicit, could repose in
security?

The confidence, indeed, which an impartial governor might inspire, would most probably, as
often as the colony might be blessed with a chief of this description, give a momentary impulse
to the activity of the colonists, and create a temporary prosperity among them; but the shortness
of his administration will always interrupt the completion of his projects, and the caprice,
imbecillity, or injustice of some one or other of his successors, like the blast of the sirocco,
wither up the tender shoots of prosperity, which a consistent and protecting government would
have nurtured and brought to maturity. The experience of the past has sufficiently evinced
the little dependence which is to be placed on the degree of countenance and protection which
the system of one governor, however beneficial the prosecution of it might prove, is likely
to meet with from his successor. It is, indeed, in the nature of man, to prefer his own projects
to those of any other: there is a degree of pleasure in striking off from the beaten path,
and rambling in the untrodden wilds of speculation and experiment, which is alone sufficient,
without the help of bad motives, to account for the diversity of policy, by which the administrations
of the various governors have been contra-distinguished. This inherent principle of our nature,
so averse to the realization of every beneficial design, which is not capable of immediate
development, ought evidently to be counteracted and not encouraged, as it is at present, to
the utmost point to which an uncontrolled and ridiculous caprice may choose to indulge it.
The existing system of government is, in fact, a woof of inconsistency, from which no great
harmonious tissue can proceed. A gentleman is appointed to this important situation: on his
arrival in the colony he finds no council, no house of assembly, not even a colonial secretary
to assist him: a stranger, and naturally unacquainted with its interests, he is necessarily
obliged to have recourse to some person or other for advice: to avoid the appearance of ignorance,
which however he cannot but possess, he will not most probably apply to the gentleman whom
he supersedes; and he again, from a principle of delicacy, will not be forward in offering
his advice unsolicited: those who had been the assistants, and perhaps able assistants of the
latter, will keep aloof, as much out of respect to the gentleman whom they had last served,
as from that fear of obtrusion, that feeling of diffidence, which is inherent in persons of
real merit and probity; so that it is ten to one but he falls into the hands of the faction
who had been the enemies of his predecessor, only perhaps because he had too much honour and
integrity to promote their selfish views, at the expence of the public weal. Scarcely, therefore,
will this gentleman have quitted the colony, before the whole of the superstructure which he
had been rearing will have been pulled down, and another of a different description commenced
in its stead. Such has almost invariably been, and such will continue to be the conduct of
the actual government; nothing judicious or permanent can ever be expected to proceed from
it. How then, it may be asked, can prosperity be expected to flow from sources so precarious
and inconstant? Are they calculated to supply that regular equal stream of security and confidence
which has been found essential to the progress of improvement? But were the existing system
of government essentially conservative in its nature, instead of being virtually destructive,
it would still prove inadequate and inefficient. The circumstances and wants of this colony
will vary every year, and consequently require either such partial modifications or entire
alterations of policy as may be suited to each progressive stage of advancement. Its government,
therefore, ought to be so constituted, as not only to possess the power of revising old laws,
but also of framing new ones. It ought, in fact, to involve in itself a creative as well as
a conservative faculty; a faculty which might enable it to accommodate its measures to every
change of situation, and provide an instant remedy for every unforeseen and prejudicial contingency.
Nothing short of this will suffice to inspire that confidence which alone can be productive
of permanent prosperity. The government of an individual, however respectable he may be, will
always engender distrust and cramp exertion. Man is distinguished from the rest of the creation
by his circumspection and providence. There must exist a moral probability of reaping before
he will venture to sow. This cautious calculating disposition too, is most predominant in those
who are in the most easy circumstances: where the liability to incur loss is greatest, the
spirit of enterprize is generally most restrained. But this class, which contains the great
capitalists of all countries, are precisely those whose means, if they could be enticed into
activity, would be productive of the most beneficial results. No soil is so barren, no climate
so forbidding, as not to present facilities more or less favourable for the absorption of capital,
and the extension of industry. Wherever the tide of improvement is at its height, and a reflux
ensues, it is to the impolicy of the government, and not to the sterility of the country, that
this retrogradation is to be attributed. Prosperity and happiness belong to no climate, they
are indigenous to no soil: they have been known to fly the allurements of the fertile vale,
and to nestle on the top of the barren mountain: the plains of Latium could not secure their
stay, yet have they freely alit on the snow-capt summits of Helvetia: they have been the faithful
companions of freedom in all her wanderings and persecutions: they have never graced the triumphs
of injustice and oppression.

I have now hastily sketched the principal incidents which have characterized the march of this
colony during the last fifteen years. If I have neglected representing its more early efforts;
if I have excluded from view the amazing difficulties and privations with which its immediate
founders had to contend; if, in fine, I have altogether omitted in the picture the numerous
interesting events that took place during the first fifteen years of its establishment, I have
been induced to all these omissions by a conviction, that the existing system of government,
if not the most eligible that could have been devised, was at least unproductive of those glaring
ill consequences, with which it has subsequently been attended. A singleness of design and
a unity of action, could not be deviated from during the period of its infancy by the most
ignorant and inexpert bungler in political science. There was a broad path open to its government,
which it could not possibly mistake. The colony as yet entirely dependent on external supplies,
always precarious from their very nature, but rendered still more so by a tedious, and at that
time almost unexplored navigation, would unavoidably turn its whole attention to the single
object of raising food, and emancipating itself as soon as possible, from so uncertain and
dangerous a dependence. The principle of fear would have sufficed to propel the colonists to
a spontaneous application of their strength to the realization of this end, independent of
any directing power whatever. It was, therefore, only on the attainment of this most important
point, that the impolicy of the present form of government became a matter of speculation,
and subsequently, that it has been demonstrated by its practical result,--the wretched situation
to which it has reduced a colony, that might be made, as I have satisfactorily established,
one of the most useful and flourishing appendages of the empire. It is at the epoch when the
produce of the colonists began to exceed the demand, and when their industry, instead of being
encouraged and directed into new channels of profitable occupation, was not only left to its
own blind unguided impulse, but also placed under the most impolitic and oppressive restrictions,
that I have taken up the pencil, and made a rapid but faithful delineation of the deplorable
consequences that have been attendant on a concatenation of injudicious and absurd disabilities,
which, though not altogether imposed by its immediate government, would have been easily removed
by the more weighty influence of a combined representative legislature. I have therefore throughout
the whole of this essay, considered the present government not only responsible for its own
impolitic conduct, but also for the existence of those grievances which have been created by
a higher authority, and of which it has wanted the will or the power to procure the repeal.
I have commenced by glancing at some of the most striking events that ancient history affords,
to prove that the prosperity of nations has kept pace with the degree of freedom enjoyed by
their citizens, and that their decadence and eventual overthrow have been invariably occasioned
by a selfish and overwhelming despotism. From these striking illustrations, this steady coincidence
of cause and effect, deduced from the records of the greatest among ancient and modern empires,
I have concluded that every community which has not a free government, is devoid of that security
of person and property which has been found to be the chief stimulus to individual exertion,
and the only basis on which the social edifice can repose in a solid and durable tranquillity.
That the system of government adopted in the colony of New South Wales does not rest on this
foundation stone of private right and public prosperity, I have proved from the detestable
tyranny and consequent arrest of a governor, whose conduct anterior to his being intrusted
with this important charge, it will have been seen, was such as might have led without any
extraordinary powers of discrimination to a prediction of the catastrophe that befel him. The
atrocities perpetrated by this monster, and the events to which they gave rise, are sufficient
to convince the most incredulous, that the colonists have no guarantee for the undisturbed
enjoyment of their rights and liberties, but the impartiality and good pleasure of their governor;
and that they have no resource but in rebellion against the unprincipled attacks and unjustifiable
inroads of arbitrary power. So radically defective, indeed, is the government to which they
are subjected in its very constitution, that it not only holds out, in the uncontrolled authority
which it vests in the hands of an individual, the strongest temptations for the exercise of
tyranny to those who may habitually possess an overbearing and despotic temperament, but has
also a manifest tendency, as history amply attests, to vitiate the heart, and to produce a
spirit of injustice and oppression in those who may have been antecedently distinguished by
a well regulated and humane disposition. While it is thus, on the one hand, calculated to beget
the most monstrous atrocities within the sphere of its jurisdiction, I have shewn that it has
not, on the other, been invested by the power to whom it owes its origin and existence with
the ability to perform any extended good; and that while it involves in its essence all the
elements of destruction, it possesses no one principle of vitality. Of this assertion the administration
of Governor Macquarie, who if you may judge from the length of time during which he has held
this high office, would appear to possess a greater portion of the confidence of his Majesty's
ministers, than any of his predecessors, furnishes an indubitable proof: for relieved as the
mind of the reader will have been from the undivided indignation, disgust, and abhorrence,
which the excesses committed in the foregoing government cannot fail to excite, by a review
of the prudence and moderation by which his career has been contra-distinguished, he will nevertheless
have beheld the colony, from the want of privileges, of which this gentleman has not possessed
sufficient influence to procure the authorization, sinking in spite of his upholding hand,
from a comparative state of affluence and comfort, to the lowest depth of poverty and endurance.
He will have seen the colonists checked in their agricultural pursuits, rushing promiscuously
into every avenue of internal industry that lay open to them, and afterwards constructing vessels,
and not only exploring every known shore within the limits of their territory, in search of
sandal wood, but even discovering unknown islands abounding with seals. He will have viewed
them exhausting these temporary sources of relief, and attempting, but obliged to desist by
the weight of impolitic imposts, both internal and external, from those inexhaustible fountains
of wealth, the valuable whale fisheries that exist in the adjacent seas. He will have beheld
them from inability to purchase the more costly commodities of other countries, making the
most astonishing exertions in manufactures, and thus impelled by necessity to the adoption
of a system not more averse to the interests of the parent country than to their own; and which
under a well regulated government, would have been one of the last effects of maturity and
civilization. He will have witnessed, notwithstanding these vigorous and unnatural efforts,
numbers of them bending every day beneath the pressure of embarrassment, and at length stripped
of their lands, and deprived of their freedom, by a set of rapacious and unprincipled dealers,
who are gradually rendering themselves masters of the persons and property of the agriculturists;
the greater part of whom, if the present system continue a few years longer, will be virtually
reduced to a state of bondage, and condemned to minister to the ease and enjoyments of the
worthless and the vile. He will have seen that, while the poorer settlers have already in general
fallen victims to the unjust and impolitic disabilities with which they are beset, the circle
of distress has extended itself from these, the central body of the community, to its circumference;
and that the imports have so constantly preponderated in the balance over the united weight
of the income and exports, that the whole wealth of the colony has been continually flowing
into foreign countries, for the payment of the necessary commodities furnished by them, leaving
no money in circulation for the important purposes of domestic economy, and compelling the
colonists by a general, constrained, and tacit convention, to tolerate, as a substitute for
a legitimate circulating medium, a currency possessed of no intrinsic value whatever. He will
have beheld this rapid torrent of distress forcibly driving back the tide of population, both
by the difficulties which it throws in the way of rearing up a family, and by the numerous
bodies of freed convicts, whom it propels to a return to their native country, the greater
part of whom, more from necessity than choice, are led to a resumption of their ancient habits,
in order to procure a subsistence, and either impose on the government the expense of retransporting
them to this colony, or end their career of iniquity by falling victims to the vengeance of
the laws which they had so often violated. He will have seen during these continual and violent
concussions, by which the whole social edifice has been shaken to the foundation, that the
expenditure of the colony has been in a state of the most rapid increase, and that the existing
system of government is incompatible with its diminution. He will, in fine, have been satisfied
that the immorality and vice which it was the main object of the legislature to repress and
extirpate, are making the most alarming progress and extension.

Looking a little beyond these, the actual results of the present order of things, he will find
that it is affording the most efficacious assistance and encouragement to the perfection of
the manufacturing system, already in a state of considerable advancement, and that a few years
more will so greatly circumscribe the means of the colonists, that the majority of them will
be entirely excluded from the use of foreign commodities, and compelled to content themselves
with the homely products of their own ingenuity; and that thus not only one of the great ends
of colonization, the creation of a market for the consumption of the manufactures of the parent
country, will be defeated by her own impolitic conduct, but also a spirit of animosity will
be engendered by the recollection of the privations and sufferings encountered by the colonists
in their tedious and painful march to this unnatural independence in their resources; a spirit
which will be handed down from father to son, acquiring in its descent fresh force, and settling
at length into an hereditary hatred, which it will no longer be in the power of the government
to extinguish, and which will propel them, whenever an opportunity offers, to renounce the
control of such unwise and unfeeling masters. Passing from this gloomy picture of vexatious
tyranny and unmerited suffering, he will proceed to the more grateful contemplation of the
remedies that are proposed as a cure for the present evils, and as a preventive against the
future tremendous eruption with which the existing system, a mountainous agglomeration of impolicy
and barbarity, is so fatally pregnant. He will be satisfied that the application of the restoratives
prescribed, will both reintegrate the agricultural body, now in the last stage of debility
and consumption, and impart fresh life and vigour into the commercial, which is equally impaired;
and that while the parent country will by these means restore the tone and energies of the
colony, she will be contributing in the most effectual manner to her own strength and greatness.
He will be persuaded that all these most desirable ends will inevitably follow the establishment
of a free representative government; and that however salutary the adoption of the measures
proposed might be, unaccompanied with that internal power of legislation from which they would
have eventually proceeded, they would of themselves be utterly inadequate to effect a perfect
and permanent cure for the existing evils; and that nothing short of a local legislature, properly
constituted, can on the one hand either inspire into capitalists that confidence which is essential
to the free unimpeded extension of industry, or be competent on the other, to provide an instant
relief for those growing wants, which spring out of the progress of advancement, and are contingent
on those changes of circumstances and situation, to which incipient communities are so peculiarly
liable. He will, in fine, be convinced even to demonstration, that the erection of a free government
in the colony of New South Wales would be a panacea for all its sufferings; that it is the
only measure which can ease this country of the enormous burden which it will otherwise entail
on her, and save the unspent millions that will be ingulphed, uselessly ingulphed, in the devouring
vortex of the present system; and that the creation of an export trade of raw materials, and
the consequent extended consumption of her manufactures which the proposed change of government
would superinduce, is the only way in which she can ever repay herself for the immense expence
that she has lavished on this colony, as well during the period of its really helpless infancy,
as during the still longer interval of its restrained growth and fictitious imbecillity.

PART IV.

VARIOUS CHANGES PROPOSED IN THE SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT.

It being thus clear and indubitable that free representative governments are the only foundation
on which the prosperity and happiness of communities can safely repose, it only remains to
ascertain how far the actual circumstances and situation of this colony are compatible with
the concession of so great and important a privilege. At my very offset in this essay, after
glancing in a cursory manner at the history of the most celebrated ancient and modern empires,
and shewing that their progress kept pace with their freedom, and that their retrogradation
is to be dated only from the epoch when they fell under the dominion of arbitrary and ambitious
despots, whose successors gradually completed the work of destruction which they had commenced,
I was compelled in candour to admit that the heterogeneous ingredients of which this colony
was compounded, did not at the period of its foundation, afford his Majesty's government the
power, if they had even possessed the will, to establish a free representative system. It is
therefore incumbent on me, now that I have demonstrated the beneficial influence which free
governments have in promoting the prosperity of communities in general, and have proved that
this colony has for many years been languishing in a state of impeded growth, and tottering
imbecillity, from the inefficiency of its administration to adopt those measures which are
necessary to its revigoration; I say it is incumbent on me to shew that the component parts
of this body politic, have undergone such a change since the period of its creation, as will
warrant its identification in this respect with other states, and justify the conclusion that
such institutions are essential to its welfare as have been found conducive to theirs.

It must be almost superfluous to state, that when this colony was formed, it was composed,
with the exception of its civil and military establishments, entirely of convicts. It was consequently
impossible that a body of men, who were all under the sentence of the law, and had been condemned
for their crimes to suffer either a temporary suspension, or total deprivation of the civil
rights of citizens, could be admitted to exercise one of the most important among the whole
of them, the elective franchise; and to have vested this privilege in the civil and military
authorities, both of whom then as at present were subject to martial law, and were besides
at that time without landed property, the only standard I conceive by which the right either
of electing or being elected can in any country be properly regulated, would have been equally
improper and absurd. A council indeed might have been appointed, but even an institution of
this kind might have clogged the wheels of the government by its opposition, and could have
been of but little assistance with its advice; for as it has been already stated, there was
but one object to be pursued, and that was to promote by every means the agriculture of the
colony, so as to emancipate it as soon as possible from a precarious and dangerous dependence
on other countries. Until, therefore, the free inhabitants of the colony had increased to a
sufficient number to exercise the elective franchise, and until its productive powers had outstripped
its consumptive, and it became necessary either to create new markets for its produce within,
or to direct a portion of its strength to the raising of articles for exportation to other
countries, the establishment of a free representative government would not have been expedient
had it even been practicable.

The period at which the produce of this settlement fairly exceeded the internal demand for
it, may, as I have already noticed, be dated so far back as the year 1804, being about sixteen
years after the period of its foundation. It has been already seen that the harvests of that
and the succeeding year were so abundant, that no sale could be obtained for more than one
half of the crop;--that had it not been for a tremendous flood which happened in 1806, the
majority of the cultivators must have abandoned their farms, and sought for other occupation;--and
that since that period there has fortunately been a succession of floods and droughts, which
with the exception of two or three seasons of equal plenty, have kept the productive powers
of the colony nearly on a level with its consumptive, or else the situation of the settlers,
deplorable as it now is, would have been infinitely more so. How radically defective, then,
must be the government of this colony, when what would be calamities of the most serious and
afflicting nature in a well organized community are here blessings! Is it in the nature of
things to adduce more weighty arguments in proof of the necessity which has existed since the
above period for its supercession? Ought not a government that would have felt the importance,
and have possessed the power of creating new channels of consumption for agricultural produce
to have been then instituted? This great object, it has been already shewn, could have been
in no way so easily accomplished as by the erection of distilleries. To have diverted the attention
of any part of the agriculturists from the growth of corn, would have been highly impolitic
in a country, where the greatest and most fertile portion of the arable land is subject to
such awful inundations. On the contrary, it was and still is expedient, that the whole agricultural
energies of the colony should be confined to the production of grain, until the surplus become
so great as to leave no chance whatever of these inundations being any longer attended with
their former baneful consequences. But this can only be effected by creating a sure and adequate
market for this surplus; and whether such market is to be found in the colony, or to be sought
for abroad, no power either would have been, or is so fully competent to accomplish this important
purpose, as an independent legislature chosen from the midst of the community, whose interests
are identified with its own.

With respect to the expediency or even practicability of instituting a body of this nature
so long as fourteen years back, I am aware that there exists a great difference of opinion
among the respectable class of the colonists themselves. For my own part, however small may
have been the number of those from or by whom a colonial legislature could at that time have
been formed, I consider of but little moment in solving this great problem. The only question
it appears to me to be ascertained, is, whether a legislative assembly, however small the number
of whom it might have been composed, and however limited the body of electors by whom it might
have been chosen, would not have done its utmost to promote its own interests, or what would
have been the same thing, the welfare of the community which it represented. I cannot conceive
the possibility of any one's doubting that such would have been its conduct; and in this case
what power could have been instituted in the colony that would have been so well calculated
to foster its infant efforts, and develope its nascent prosperity, as one that would have been
invested with the faculties of legislation; or in other words, with the authority to enact
as a matter of course those measures of which the existing government has not had sufficient
influence to procure the authorization.

The expediency, however, of having established a house of assembly in the colony at the period
in question, is at this moment, perhaps, rather a matter of curious speculation, than of profitable
inquiry. Extensively beneficial, as would in all probability have been its effects, it is nevertheless
useless to deplore an omission which cannot now be remedied. Nor has the absence, perhaps,
of this important institution been altogether without its advantages. It has at least indisputably
proved the inefficiency of the present system of government, and that the colony could not
have sunk under any other form of administration whatever, to a lower ebb of poverty and wretchedness,
nor have become a heavier and more unproductive burthen to the mother country. The want, therefore,
of an internal legislature has combined every consideration that could be adduced in proof
of the necessity of changing the present system, and adopting in its stead that form of government
which has been found so salutary and efficacious in all countries where it has been established.
The only question that remains to be ascertained, is whether the colony is now in a state of
maturity for the reception of so important a privilege as the elective franchise; and this
I conceive will be best answered by a reference to the numerical strength of its free population.
At the general muster or census concluded on the 19th of November, 1817, there were found to
be in all the various settlements and districts of the colony of New South Wales, and its dependencies,
twenty thousand three hundred and twenty-eight souls, of whom sixteen thousand six hundred
and sixty-four were in the various towns and districts belonging to Port Jackson. Out of these
there were six hundred and ten soldiers, and six thousand two hundred and ninety-seven convicts,
leaving a free population, independent of the military, of nine thousand seven hundred and
fifty-seven souls. At Newcastle, a settlement about sixty miles to the northward of Port Jackson,
there were five hundred and fifty souls, about seventy of whom were free. At the settlements
of the Derwent and Port Dalrymple, there were in all three thousand one hundred and fourteen
souls, of whom two thousand five hundred and fifty-four were at the former place, and five
hundred and sixty at the latter: out of these there were about two hundred soldiers, but the
number of free persons I have not been able precisely to discover. As these settlements, however,
include the majority of the colonists and their families, who were removed from Norfolk Island;
and as by far the greater proportion of the convicts who have been transported from this country
have been sent to Port Jackson, I have no doubt that the number of free persons there, may
be safely estimated at three fourths of their entire population, seeing that it is about two
thirds of the population of Port Jackson. According to this rate of computation, therefore,
the number of free persons in these two settlements, after previously deducting the two hundred
military, will amount to about two thousand one hundred and eighty-six souls. It may, consequently,
be perceived, that the grand total of the free population of all these various colonies in
the latter end of November, 1817, may be safely estimated to have been eleven thousand nine
hundred and seventy-three, being an excess of four thousand four hundred and seventy above
the number of convicts, or in the proportion of more than three to two.

As the establishment of the legislative assembly in question could not, however, be well effected
before the end of the year 1819, it may not be altogether irrelevant to ascertain what will
be the probable amount of the free population at that period. The number of births in the colony
cannot at present be computed under two thousand annually, since the increase in these various
settlements between the month of November, 1816, and the month of November, 1817, is found
to have been three thousand two hundred and eighty-nine souls; and the number of convicts transported
thither from the first of January, 1816, to the first of January, 1818, was only three thousand
one hundred and eight. Allowing, therefore, that one half of these, or one thousand five hundred
and fifty-four, were transported to the colony during the year 1817, the increase that took
place there, from birth and emigration will have been one thousand seven hundred and thirty-five:
to which if we add five hundred, the number of persons that probably quit the colony annually;
the actual rate of increase in the free population in the course of the year 1817, may be fixed
at two thousand two hundred and thirty-five souls. Of these the surplus above two thousand,
is perhaps composed of emigrants, and the remainder of births. If we add to these one thousand
more, who it may be safely calculated yearly become free, by pardon or expiration of servitude,
we have an annual augmentation to the free population of three thousand two hundred and thirty-five
souls: so that if we take the year 1817, as a standard of computation, and it is evidently
a low one, the free population will amount by the end of the year 1819, to at least eighteen
thousand four hundred and forty-three souls. This is an elective body much more extensive than
is to be found in several of our West India islands, where houses of assembly have been long
established. But as this free population is of a mixed description, and composed as well of
persons who have been convicts, and have become free either by the expiration of their respective
sentences, or by pardon, as of those who have been born in the colony, or have emigrated to
it, and have never suffered the penalties of the law, a very delicate question here arises
as to the propriety of extending to the first of these classes the privilege of being admitted
into the legislative body. There is, I am aware, a party in the colony, by whom the very notion
of granting such a privilege to a class of men who have been subject to the lash of the law,
would be treated as a chimera pregnant with the most fatal consequences to this infant community.
In this, as in most other societies, there is an aristocratic body, which would monopolize
all situations of power, dignity and emolument, and put themselves in a posture to domineer
alike over the governor and the people. If you consult one of this faction (they deserve no
milder appellation) he will tell you that it is dangerous to vest any authority beyond the
narrow circle of his own immediate friends. Until the administration of General Macquarie,
this body considered themselves possessed of an equal right to the governor's confidence, as
if they stood in the same relation to him which the nobility of this country bear to the king,
and were de jure his hereditary counsellors. Before his government the great body of the people.
I mean such as had become free, scarcely possessed any privilege but that of suing and being
sued in the courts of civil jurisdiction. The whole power, and nearly the whole property and
commerce of the colony, were in the hands of this faction, who with a very few exceptions were
composed of the civil and military, and of persons who had belonged to these bodies formerly.
And even in those few solitary instances which could be adduced, of persons originally convicts,
who were allowed to acquire an independence, their prosperity was to be traced to the patronage
and protection afforded them by some member of the aristocratic junta, to whom they either
acted as agents in the disposal of their merchandize (for it was considered by these gentlemen
derogatory to their dignity to keep shop and sell openly) or resorted for the purchase of goods
on their own accounts. At the prosperity, however, and importance of this faction, the present
governor has levelled many a deadly blow within these last nine years; but more particularly
in prohibiting the military to hold lands, or to be concerned in traffic, in raising to situations
of the highest trust and dignity many deserving persons who had been convicts, and in throwing
open the ports of the colony to an unlimited importation of all sorts of merchandize. But he
has not effected these radical and salutary changes in the colonial policy without having encountered
a long and inveterate hostility. Many have been the attempts which this faction have made to
vilify his motives and misrepresent his actions; but to every charge of his enemies his unshaken
integrity and unwearied zeal for the conscientious discharge of his duties have proved a sufficient
refutation. The opinion of this gentleman with respect to the expediency of adopting a liberal
system, that may prove an effectual stimulus to reformation and good conduct in those who have
unhappily deviated from the path of rectitude, has been expressed unequivocally both in his
dispatches, and in the prominent measures of his government, and will deservedly carry with
it more weight than the whole collected opposition which I anticipate from those who have been
his opponents and calumniators. The covert aim of these men is to convert the ignominy of the
great body of the people into an hereditary deformity. They would hand it down from father
to son, and raise an eternal barrier of separation between their offspring, and the offspring
of the unfortunate convict. They would establish distinctions which may serve hereafter to
divide the colonists into castes; and although none among them dares publicly avow that future
generations should be punished for the crimes of their progenitors, yet such are their private
sentiments; and they would have the present race branded with disqualifications, not more for
the sake of pampering their own vanity, than with a view to reflect disgrace on the offspring
of the disfranchised parent, and thus cast on their own children and descendants that future
splendor and importance, which they consider to be their present peculiar and distinguishing
characteristics. Short-sighted fools! they foresee not the consequences of their narrow machinations!
They know not that they would be sowing the seeds of future discords and commotions, and that
by exalting their immediate descendants, they would occasion the eventual degradation and overthrow
of their posterity. Such would be the result of their ambition; for it is the curse of injustice
that it brings with it sooner or later its own punishment. Happily for the colony the realization
of their projects depends not upon themselves; and his Majesty's ministers will not lend their
sanction to schemes of private aggrandizement, which can only be accomplished by the sacrifice
of the public good. If these men have not themselves the sagacity to dive into futurity, and
to foresee the dangers and contests to which unjust privileges and distinctions must eventually
give birth, shall the government be equally blind and improvident? Shall they in the short
space of thirty years forget the benevolent designs for which this colony was founded, and
convert what was intended as an asylum for repentant vice, not into a house merely of salutary
correction, which may moderate with reviving morality and cease entirely with complete reformation,
but into a prison of endless torture, where though the sufferings of the body may terminate,
the worst species of torture, the endurements and mortifications of the soul, are to end only
with existence? Shall a vile faction be allowed to inflict on the unfortunate convict a punishment
infinitely greater than that to which he has been sentenced by the violated majesty of the
law? Has not a jury of impartial freemen solemnly investigated the case of every individual
who has been transported to this colony? And have not the measure and duration of their punishments
been apportioned to their respective offences? Is it then for any body of men to assert that
the law has been too lenient, and that it is necessary to inflict an ulterior punishment which
shall have no termination but in the grave? Shall the unhappy culprit, exiled from his native
shore, and severed perhaps for ever from the friends of his youth, the objects of his first
and best affections, after years of suffering and atonement, still find no resting place,--no
spot where he may hide his shame and endeavour to forget his errors? Shall the finger of scorn
and derision be pointed at him wherever he betake himself? And must he for ever wander a recreant
and outcast on the face of the earth, seeking in vain some friendly shore, where he may at
length be freed from ignominious disabilities, and restored to the long lost enjoyment of equal
rights and equal protection with his fellows?

I am aware it may be here urged that these men, if they were to return to this country, could
never enjoy the privileges for which I am contending; and that the very same laws, which have
fixed the bounds of their corporal punishment have deprived them for ever of the most valuable
rights of citizens. To this I reply, that in this country, whither if the whole of the convicts
who have been exiled from its shores were to return, they would form but an inconsiderable
portion of the people, all such disqualifications as the law has annexed to conviction in a
court of justice, are good policy; because they tend to promote virtue and discountenance vice.
But the very same grounds of policy require that such disqualifications should not exist in
New South Wales. There the great mass of the people are composed of persons who have been under
the operation of the law, and who were transported with the avowed intention of the legislature
to effect their reformation. How then is this great philanthropic end to be best attained?
Is it by holding out no inducements to good conduct, no distinction between repentant vice
and incorrigible enormity? Those who have been convicted of the higher order of offences, and
have been in consequence transported for life, are from the very nature of their sentences
precluded from ever enjoying the privilege in question, unless, indeed, their very exemplary
conduct subsequently induce the governor to extend to them the benefit of the king's pardon.
This, however, is an indulgence at present so rarely accorded, that the whole of this class
may be in a manner considered as being without the pale of citizenship; and it is therefore
such only as have been convicted of crimes to which the law has annexed the minor penalties
of seven or fourteen years transportation, who could generally become candidates for a seat
in the legislative assembly? How many of this description have been detected in their first
offence, in their very offset in the career of criminality? How many ever afterwards deplore
their errors in sackcloth and ashes, and conduct themselves in the most correct and unexceptionable
manner? And shall no distinction be made between them and the still persevering offender whom
no inducements can withhold, no punishments deter from the commission of fresh enormities?
Shall the novice in crime and the veteran be placed on the same footing and held in equal estimation?
To what end do they profess themselves to be Christians who can maintain such infernal doctrines?
How can they reconcile them with that universal charity and good will inculcated in their religion?
How can they themselves expect pardon of their God, who would thus withhold oblivion from their
repentant fellow creatures? If it be then alike conformable to the principles of Christianity
and sound policy, to make a discrimination between the reformed sinner, and the still hardened
and abandoned profligate, what incentive to good conduct would prove so efficacious as the
prospect of regaining, after years of unimpeachable integrity, all those civil rights which
they had forfeited, of becoming once more privileged to act as jurymen, magistrates, and legislators?
Such a possibility would quickly revive the latent sparks of virtue wherever they were not
quite extinct, and electrify the mind when all other applications would fail to rouse it from
its despondence and lethargy. And shall not this sole efficacious remedy be administered, because
a set of interlopers, persons in no wise connected with the purposes for which this colony
was founded, wish to monopolize all the respectable offices of the government, all the functions
of emolument, power, and dignity to themselves? Shall the vital interests of the whole community
sink before the ambitious projects of a few designing individuals, who have no object in view,
but their own personal aggrandizement, and the maintenance of a self-assumed aristocratic importance?
And who would build their own and their families' prosperity on the ruins of the social edifice,
on the misery and degradation of thousands? But it is useless to enlarge on this topic: ministers
will not allow their judgments to be warped by the subtle representations of this faction.
In organizing that new constitution for this colony, of which every motive of humanity and
policy conspires to demonstrate the necessity, they will be actuated solely by those principles
that are best calculated to further the philanthropic and enlightened ends which were contemplated
by the legislature at the period of its foundation. The good of the many will not be sacrificed
to the sordid views of the few, and no disqualifications will be permitted, but such as are
confessedly necessary for the repression of vice, and the promotion of morality and religion.

But, while I am thus contending against the total exclusion of such as may have been convicts
from the enjoyment of this great privilege, I would by no means imply that the doors of the
legislative assembly should be thrown open to all indiscriminately who may happen to be free.
An unrestricted ability to exercise a function of such great confidence and dignity, would
superinduce consequences equally fatal with those against which I would guard: in endeavouring
to shun one extreme, it behoves us equally to avoid falling into the other. The very principle
which forbids their utter inadmissibility to become legislators, demands that none should be
able to arrive at that dignity, but those whose conduct during their abode in the colony shall
have been absolutely unimpeachable. Retrospection should not be pushed beyond the period of
their arrival; but their subsequent behaviour should be subjected to the severest tests, to
the most rigorous scrutiny. Conviction either before a court or a magistrate, for any offence
of a criminal nature, should be a bar to their pretensions for ever. Crimes committed in this
country should be overlooked when followed by adequate atonement and indubitable reformation;
but the interests as well of the rising generation, as of the great body of the convicts themselves,
require that the re-convicted felon, whom neither the hope of distinction can reclaim, nor
the fear of punishment deter from a recurrence to his old iniquities, should be branded with
the lasting impressions of infamy, and rendered for ever afterwards incapable of exercising
so respectable and important a function as the one in question.

With respect to the nature and extent of the property to be possessed by the members of the
legislative assembly, I am of opinion, that a freehold estate of five hundred acres in any
part of the territory of New South Wales, or its dependent settlements on Van Diemen's Land,
should be considered a sufficient qualification, and that in the case of electors twenty acres
of freehold should give the right of voting at elections for the districts in which such freehold
property may be situated; and that either a leasehold of the value of £5 a year, or paying
a house rent of £10 a year, that of voting at elections for towns. Excepting conviction, therefore,
in this country as a ground of exclusion both as respects the candidates and the constituents,
and making the above variation in the standard of their respective qualifications as to property,
I think that every cause of rejection which is deemed in Canada of sufficient efficacy to invalidate
the claims of either party, should be held of equal force in this colony, not only with persons
who may have been convicts, but with all such as may wish either to vote for the return of
members, or to become members of the legislative body themselves. In framing, indeed, a constitution
for the colony, that of Canada would, I suspect, be upon the whole the best model for imitation;
since there is not only a much stronger affinity between the great body of its inhabitants,
and those of New South Wales, than exists in any of our other colonies; but every succeeding
year will render the approximation of their character and pursuits still more complete.

There is but one topic more connected with the establishment of a house of assembly in this
colony, on which I intend to comment; and I notice it not so much with a view to offer fresh
arguments in support of the necessity of this measure, which I consider I have already sufficiently
demonstrated, as to state all the prominent reasons which might be adduced on the occasion.
It is a fundamental maxim of the British constitution, that no taxes shall be levied on the
subject without his consent expressed by his representatives, and yet duties have been exacted
in this colony for the last fifteen years, by the mere authority of the various governors.
These, it has been seen, are appropriated to various purposes of internal economy, all of great
public importance and utility, to which it is but equitable that the colonists should contribute.
This system of taxation originated, I believe, with Governor King, but whether with the sanction
of his Majesty's ministers, or from his own suggestion I am not able to determine. Since his
time I should imagine that not less than two hundred thousand pounds have been levied in this
unconstitutional manner; and until the administration of the present governor, those who paid
this money had not even the satisfaction of knowing how any part of it was applied. From the
secrecy indeed which was observed in the expenditure of this fund, and the rapacious character
of his predecessor, many of the colonists suspected that very little of it was appropriated
during his time to the purposes for which it was intended. This misapplication of it, however,
is but a matter of conjecture; and it was probably to shelter himself from the possibility
of falling under a similar imputation, that the present governor has caused quarterly accounts,
which are first verified by a committee consisting of the lieutenant governor and the judge
advocate, and afterwards examined and approved by himself, to be published for the general
information. This custom, however, is a deviation, although it must be confessed a good one,
from precedent: and the colonists have no guarantee that his successors will not revert to
the same mysterious application of this fund that has been practised by his predecessors. In
this case it may be converted into a fruitful source of peculation and plunder, and be at last
in a great measure diverted from the public objects for which it was instituted to the satiation
of private rapacity, and the colonists become gradually burdened with an overbearing load of
taxation, merely for the purpose of enriching their governors. Be this, however, as it may,
the illegality of levying money by the authority of any individual, is, I should presume, quite
unquestionable; and I have no doubt that if any of the colonists had public spirit enough to
resist the payment of these duties, the court of civil jurisdiction would not enforce it; since
the decisions of this court are solely founded on acts of parliament. The magistrates of the
colony might indeed take upon themselves to direct the execution of the governor's orders,
which authorize the levying of these taxes, but I have doubts, since resistance to these orders
would not amount to an act of a criminal nature, and the point at issue would be a mere matter
of debt between an individual and the government, whether they even would consent to give such
an illegal method of taxation the sanction of their support. At all events an appeal would
lie in the shape of a writ of certiorari to the civil court, which could not avoid annulling
the judgment of the magistrates, and consequently declaring the governor's conduct unwarranted
and illegal. Such an occurrence would evidently be attended with the most prejudicial effects;
for not to dwell on the mortification which the governor for the time being would experience
at discovering in so disagreeable a way that by treading in the footsteps of his predecessors,
he had been exercising a power to which his situation gave him no claim, there can be little
doubt that a victory of this nature gained by an individual over the executive would be the
signal for the institution of suits against the government for the recovery of all the money
that has been levied under such an illegal and arbitrary authority. To prevent the probability
of being forced to refund so large a sum of money to the persons or their heirs from whom it
has been thus illegally wrested, and to legalize all future levies of duties in the colony,
the establishment of a colonial legislature certainly offers the only judicious and constitutional
expedient.

I would not that it should be considered from the foregoing remarks that the colonists are
averse to taxation. On the contrary, it is my belief that they would cheerfully contribute
whatever may be necessary for the promotion of objects purely colonial; but they expect, and
have a right to do so, that all such objects should be submitted to the consideration and approval
of their representatives, and that their money should not be taken out of their pockets, whether
they will or not, by the mere ipse dixit of a governor. Few are discontented with the present
rate of taxation, because it is moderate; and, with the exception of that small part of the
colonial revenue which arises from duties on articles of export, may be even considered judicious;
inasmuch as the great bulk of the duties falls on luxuries which can be dispensed with, without
occasioning any material diminution of comfort and enjoyment. But all are averse to the manner
in which these duties are levied; for if they once admit that a governor has the right to exact
one farthing by his single authority, what limits can be afterwards assigned to the exercise
of this power? He may on the very same principle tax every article of consumption, and on the
plea of public contributions undermine the whole prosperity and happiness of the community.
That the different governors have been allowed to prosecute this system without opposition
for so many years, could only have arisen from the peculiar constitution of this colony; but
its population has now attained a degree of consequence and respectability, which will not
much longer tamely permit such an unprecedented deviation from all constitutional authority;
and the best way to obviate the unpleasant circumstances of the contest, to which a continuance
of the present system must shortly give rise, is to create a body legally endowed with the
powers of legislation.

On the expediency of appointing a council, his Majesty's ministers are, I believe, themselves
agreed; and I will not, therefore, enter at great length on the subject. The arbitrary and
revolting acts, which the want of a controlling body of this nature has already occasioned,
furnish the most convincing proof of its necessity. No power, in fact, could be established,
which would at one and the same time prove so firm a defence to the subject, and so stable
a support to the executive. A council in the colonies bears many points of resemblance to the
House of Lords in this country. It forms that just equipoise between the democratic and supreme
powers of the state, which has been found not less necessary to repress the licentiousness
of the one, than to curb the tyranny of the other. Besides, it at all times provides a remedy
for the inexperience or ignorance of governors; and is a sort of nucleus, round which all new
bodies may easily agglomerate. Like a handful of veterans in a newly raised regiment, it will
be capable of setting in motion the whole machinery of the government, and establishing with
the greatest celerity that organization and discipline which are as requisite in administration
as in war. There is but one precaution to be observed in the formation of the council: it is
to give the members of it an adequate salary, or in other words to insure the independent and
conscientious discharge of the duties of their highly important office.

The expediency of appointing a colonial secretary rests in a great measure on the same grounds
as that of creating a council. How can a private secretary, whom every new governor is at present
under the necessity of bringing out with him, be capable of entering at once upon the duties
of the most complicated and laborious office in the colony? It is evident that a considerable
time must unavoidably elapse, before he can acquire, how great soever his abilities, that fund
of local information which can alone qualify him for his situation. In the mean while it is
ten to one but he becomes the tool of one or other of his clerks, who are for the most part
convicts; and thus the principal acts of the governor, which from the confidential nature of
his office are necessarily very materially influenced by his advice, may be secretly dictated
by persons who possess very little principle or character, and who if they be themselves too
insignificant to profit to an extensive degree by the measures of the government, may for a
trifling consideration become the agents of richer and more powerful individuals, and the public
good be inadvertently sacrificed at the shrine of private avarice or ambition.

The last measure which I consider necessary to the prosperity of this colony is a radical reform
in the courts of justice. It has long since been noticed that at the principal settlement and
its dependencies, there are five courts, one of criminal and the other four of civil judicature,
viz. the criminal court, the governor's court, the supreme court, the court of vice admiralty,
the high court of appeals, all of which are held in Sydney, and the lieutenant governor's court,
which is held in Hobart Town. The constitution of these various courts has been already explained,
and a mere cursory glance at their several jurisdictions, will convince us of the danger and
absurdity of their organization. To commence in the order in which I have noticed them, what
can be more improper than the constitution of the criminal court? At the time indeed, when
this court was instituted, there was a necessity that it should wholly consist of the officers
of the colony, since they and convicts were the only two classes of whom it was composed; but
even then, what motive existed for excluding the civil officers? Were they either less competent
to be members of a court, whose decisions ought to be founded solely on the laws of England,
or were they less respectable than the military and naval? The bare appearance of this tribunal
has long been odious and revolting to the majority of the colonists. It is disgusting to an
Englishman to see a culprit, however heinous may be his offence, arraigned before a court clad
in full military costume; nor can it indeed be readily conceived that a body of men, whose
principles and habits must have been materially influenced, if not entirely formed, by a code
altogether foreign to the laws of this country, should be able on such occasions to divest
themselves of the soldier, and to judge as the citizen. Without meaning to impugn the general
impartiality and justice of their decisions, it may be easily imagined that an individual might
happen to be traduced before a court, of which all, or part of the members, might from various
causes be his enemies. No one has mixed much in military society, without witnessing that esprit
du corps which is so common in regiments, and which, however much it may contribute to their
union and happiness, is, in a community of this nature, of the most dangerous tendency to the
individual, against whom its collected fury may be levelled. It must be remembered that this
colony is not like a country town from whence a regiment may be removed the moment its conduct
becomes obnoxious to the inhabitants. There the regiments necessarily remain for many years,
and from this very circumstance, disputes of a much more serious and rancorous nature are apt
to arise between the inhabitants and the military, than are known in this country. And this
observation applies more particularly to the officers and the superior class of the colonists:
since the disputes and contests which take place between the lower orders of the inhabitants
and the common soldiery, generally arise on the spur of the moment, and evaporate with the
immediate cause of the provocation; while the others are more frequently the effect of cool
and deliberate insult, and consequently settle into a fixed and inveterate hostility. Under
these circumstances, therefore, it is not to be wondered at, that no person should feel himself
in perfect security. The respectability of the higher order of the colonists may indeed shield
the generality of them from any likelihood of their being ever arraigned before this tribunal;
but still it might happen to them to be traduced before a court composed of their bitterest
foes, not only on charges of a mixed nature, such as assault, battery, libel, etc. but also
on others of a much weightier responsibility. The probability of such a contingency would be
still further increased if the governor should happen to have imbibed the same spirit of hostility
against the accused, which I have supposed actuating the military. For although the present
governor, in order to render the administration of justice as unimpeachable as the nature of
this court will allow, has invariably appointed the members of it according to the roaster
furnished by the commanding officer of the regiment, his predecessors did not, I believe, invariably
observe the same delicacy, nor is it incumbent on his successors to imitate his example. Any
person therefore, who may unfortunately become obnoxious to the governor and the officers of
the regiment, or indeed any part of them, should he be accused of any offence within the pale
of the criminal court, might be thus forced to take his trial before his selected and implacable
enemies. In this extremity what could he do to rescue himself from their gripe? He would have
no right to challenge one of them; and if the sanctity of an oath, and the dread of the future
scorn and detestation of mankind, did not deter them from the commission of a crying and palpable
injustice, his innocence, were it as clear as the noon day, would avail him nothing, and he
must unavoidbly sink, the devoted victim of foul conspiracy and deadly revenge. I am not sufficiently
acquainted with the history of the proceedings of this court from the period of its institution,
to shew how far the whole or any part of this supposed case may have been in any instance verified.
That it may occur is sufficient to prove the necessity for changing the constitution of this
court, and to justify the general anxiety which is felt by the colonists for the introduction
of that right, so dear to the heart of every Englishman, the trial by jury. It is this inestimable
privilege alone which can insure them the tranquil enjoyment of their persons and property,
and enable them, while possessed of conscious integrity of conduct, to set at defiance the
confederated efforts of their enemies, and to despise both the open attacks of power and the
secret contrivances of malignity.

The constitution of the governor's court and of the supreme court, is liable to the same objection.
They are both composed of the judges, who have each a vote in their respective courts, and
of two members specially appointed by the governor: so that none of those causes of challenge
which are held sufficient in this country to disqualify a juror, are of any validity in the
courts of this colony. In the governor's court, indeed, the two members are to be appointed
from among the respectable inhabitants; but, although the governor himself is the only judge
of the measure of their respectability, he could not well avoid selecting them out of that
class which in case of the introduction of trial by jury, would have a right from their property
and character to be summoned as jurymen. In this court, therefore, an individual in a trial
with the crown, would have a much greater chance of obtaining justice than in the supreme court;
because the two members of it are to be appointed from the magistracy, and might be selected
by the governor from their known zeal and corrupt devotedness to his service. But it is of
infinitely greater importance that the decisions of this latter court should be the less exposed
of the two to the possibility of bias; because in the former the injury which an individual
could sustain from an unjust verdict could only amount to £50, and in the latter it might extend
to £3000, and consequently occasion his utter ruin. I limit the injustice which might arise
from the very improper constitution of this court to the above sum; because, although it is
competent, as I have before stated, to take cognizance of all pleas to any amount whatever,
an appeal would lie, from the high court of appeals, whose verdict I here take it for granted,
would in all crown causes be confirmatory of the judgment of the inferior court, to the king
in council, when the matter in dispute exceeded this sum. Any unjust verdict, therefore, for
more than £3000, would of course be reversed in this country; but this is a trifling set-off
against the heavy charges to which the court is in other respects liable; since few of the
colonists are wealthy enough to be concerned in causes where the matter at issue could attain
so great an amount: so that this remedy is quite beyond the reach of the majority of the inhabitants,
and they are abandoned to the scourge of oppression, wherever a capricious and overwhelming
tyranny may choose to single out its victim. It is highly necessary, therefore, that the constitution
of both these courts should undergo an immediate revision, and be so framed as to ensure henceforth
the impartial administration of justice to all. They are not to be tolerated because they cannot
commit a robbery beyond this enormous amount, and because there are some few individuals, whose
prosperity is too deeply rooted to be overturned by the malignant fury of vengeful despots.
It must be evident that the power of the governor of this colony is sufficiently leviathan,
uncontrolled as he is by a council, and possessed as he is of an incontrovertible right to
nominate the most obsequious of his creatures as jurymen on all trials, whether of a civil
or criminal nature, to endanger the property and life of every individual under his government.
Nor should it here be forgotten that there has been a governor who, if the colonists had not
arrested him in his iniquitous career of vengeance and despotism, would have hurled death and
destruction from one end of the colony to the other. Without the circle of his immediate creatures,
with the most favored of whom it is well known that he was in a commercial partnership, every
individual who either had attained affluence, or was gradually rising to it, was the object
of his hatred or envy. The former he detested, not more because they had no need of his protection,
than from fear they should promulgate to the world his nefarious proceedings; the latter because
they were absorbing some portion of that wealth, which he wished should flow wholly into the
coffers, the contents of which at the division of the spoil he was to have so large a share
of. It does not follow, therefore, because his successor has not imitated his base example,
because he has surrounded himself with respectable counsellors and a conscientious magistracy,
that we should overlook the possibility that his very successor may undermine the whole superstructure
which he has been rearing, and become in every respect as great a monster as the wretch who
before drove the colonists to desperation and rebellion. Experience is the beacon of past times
set up for the guidance of future; and those who shape their course by it, shall avoid striking
on the rocks to which it forbids approach. Woe to the pilot who disregards this friendly admonition,
and runs on incredulous of the risk. Soon in the midst of surrounding reefs he shall when too
late repent his temerity, and wish, that content with the experience of others he had not authenticated
by the shipwreck of his hopes, the folly of his incredulity, and the reality of the danger!
It is with governments as with individuals. The institutions which have occasioned anarchy
and devastation before, will, if persisted in, produce them again. Vile and detestable as have
been the monsters of antiquity, the world still contains their parallels; and if they languish
in obscurity, if they have not attained a celebrity equally atrocious, it is because they possess
not equal facilities for the display of their real character and propensities. Human nature
is still the same, and wherever a field is opened for the growth of tyranny, there that poisonous
fungus, a tyrant, will shoot up.

But the encouragement which these courts in general hold out for the indulgence of private
animosities, and their consequently imperfect adaptation to the administration of justice,
are not the only reasons which may be urged for a change in their present organization. The
whole of the inhabitants of the various settlements in Van Diemen's Land, are in a great measure
placed without the pale of the law. They have, indeed, what is termed the lieutenant governor's
court, but as I have already observed, it can only take cognizance of pleas to the amount of
fifty pounds, and possesses no criminal jurisdiction whatever. They are consequently left without
any internal protection from the spoliations of lawless ruffians, and in a great measure from
the scarcelyless pernicious depredations of dishonest creditors. For although they may obtain
redress in both instances in the courts established at Port Jackson, nothing but an invincible
necessity will propel them to seek so distant and expensive a remedy. The consequence is, that
scarcely any but delinquents of the very worst cast, as murderers and housebreakers, are ever
brought to trial; for notwithstanding all criminal prosecutions are conducted at the cost of
the government, and the witnesses are paid their indispensable expenses from the police fund,
still, what with the period that elapses in the voyage to Port Jackson, the delays incident
to the courts themselves, and the time that the witnesses must generally wait before they can
obtain a passage back again, very few of the persons who are constrained to give evidence on
such occasions can possibly manage to resume their domestic occupations under three months.
This to a set of men, who are for the most part agriculturists, is too serious a sacrifice
of private advantage to public duty; and it is not, therefore, to be wondered at that a general
disposition should be manifested by the inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land to suffer quietly
the depredations that may be committed on their property, rather than incur perhaps the much
greater loss attached to the prosecution of the offender. The remedy, which they possess for
civil injuries is, indeed, somewhat more palatable, but still far too remote and expensive.
The principal reason, indeed, why so many debts and obligations contracted in these settlements,
become matter of action before the supreme court at Port Jackson, is to be traced to the satisfaction
which results from compelling one who considers himself a privileged plunderer, and at liberty
to fatten with impunity on the industrious, to disgorge the wealth of others, which he may
have thus sucked. The expence, however, of supporting witnesses at so great a distance from
their homes, and the precarious issue of suits in general, induce many creditors to run the
risk of voluntary payment at some future period, who would not hesitate to institute actions
against their debtors, if there were a competent tribunal within their reach. The want, therefore,
of a court possessing an unlimited civil and criminal jurisdiction, is of the most baneful
consequence to these infant settlements. It encourages all species of crimes and dishonesty,
strikes at the very root of virtue and religion, and cannot but have a most pernicious effect
on the morals of the rising generation.

Such are the leading defects in the actual system of jurisprudence established in this colony;
and I think it will not be disputed that a more crude and undigested organization of the colonial
courts could hardly have been devised. Whether the judges of these courts have made any representations
on the subject to his Majesty's government I am not aware; but I should apprehend not, or surely
they would have been remodelled ere this after a more perfect design. To effect this highly
important object would be a matter of very great ease: it appears to me that the following
measures would amply suffice. 1st, The entire abolition of the actual courts of civil and criminal
jurisdiction; 2dly, The creation in their stead of one supreme court, consisting of a chief
justice and three puisne judges; 3dly. The establishment of trial by jury; and lastly, the
creation of a high court of appeals to consist of the governor in council. The sittings of
the supreme court should only be held at Sydney, the seat of government; but circuits should
be established through-out the different districts of the colony, and of its dependent settlements
in Van Diemen's Land, and commissions of assize, of oyer and terminer, and of general gaol
delivery should be issued by the governor to the judges at stated periods, and they should
determine among themselves their respective circuits. These courts of assize should possess
the same power as belongs to similar courts in this country, and in some respects it might
be advisable that they should be vested with a still more extensive authority. In the settlements
in Van Diemen's Land I am of opinion that no appeal should be allowed from the decisions of
the court of assize to the supreme court at Sydney, unless the verdict should exceed three
hundred pounds; but it would of course be proper that the judges of this court should possess
the power of granting new trials, on the same grounds on which such are accorded in this country.
In judgments, however, for more than the above sum an appeal to the supreme court should be
admitted.

With respect to the civil jurisdiction of the courts of assize in the various districts belonging
to Port Jackson, I think it ought to be considerably curtailed, and that their decision should
not be final in any instance whatever; because the removal of causes to the supreme court would
be attended with a comparatively trifling expense and inconvenience to the parties. From the
judgment of this latter court itself, I am of opinion that an appeal should lie in all causes
where the damages might be estimated at more than one thousand pounds to the high court of
appeals, and that its decisions should be conclusive in all pleas under the amount of three
thousand pounds; but where the matter in dispute exceeded this sum, that an appeal should lie
en dernier resort to the king in council. If to these courts were added a court of admiralty,
possessing both a civil and criminal jurisdiction, the system of jurisprudence would be quite
adequate to all the present necessities of the colony; justice would be brought home to the
doors of all his Majesty's subjects in these remote and extended settlements; the delay and
expence now attendant on civil and criminal prosecutions, would be in a great measure obviated;
and the loyal and industrious would be effectually protected, both from the secret depredations
of the midnight plunderer, and from the open dishonesty of the unprincipled debtor: hundreds
of indolent and profligate persons who now prey in one way or the other on the hard earned
savings of thrift and frugality, would be compelled to resort to the pursuits of industry for
a subsistence; vice and immorality would be checked, and the wealth, happiness, and virtue
of the community at large rapidly flourish and expand.

Of all the changes or modifications which I have thus ventured to recommend in the polity of
this colony, the creation of a council, the appointment of a colonial secretary, and these
alterations in the system of its jurisprudence, are the only measures which would be attended
with an increase of expence. The establishment of a house of assembly, might of course be effected
without any cost whatever, and even the remodelling of the courts of justice would be productive
of but a very trifling addition to the scale of the civil establishment. The three judges who
at present preside in the various courts, might be transferred to the supreme court, which
I have recommended to be substituted in their stead; so that the appointment of one new judge
is the principal additional expense of which this reorganization of the courts would be productive.
It is true that it would be necessary to place all the puisne judges on the same footing in
point of salary, and likewise to appoint an attorney general to act in behalf of the crown,
but all this might be liberally accomplished for about six thousand pounds per annum. As to
the court of admiralty, the chief justice might be appointed to preside in it, whenever circumstances
might require it to be held; but this necessity would occur so seldom that no additional salary
need be allowed him on this account. A few barristers would be necessary besides the attorney
general, to support the respectability of these courts; but I consider that the practice arising
out of them, would be sufficiently extensive to repay a few gentlemen of the bar very liberally
for the sacrifices they would make in emigrating to this colony, and that the government need
not hold out any pecuniary inducements to effect this object; although it is only four or five
years since two attornies were each allowed £300 per annum by way of encouragement for them
to go out and practise in the courts at present established there. Since that time, however,
two more have voluntarily gone out to the colony without any salary whatever, and have found
that there is sufficient litigation without the assisting liberality of the government. An
addition therefore of £6000 per annum to the civil establishment of this colony, would effect
the great radical reformation in its polity, of which it has been the main object of this essay
to prove the wisdom and necessity; while on the other hand, the savings which this country
would derive from the adoption of the various alterations proposed, would be found not only
in the almost immediate check which would be imposed on the rapidly increasing expenditure
of this colony, but also in the great permanent reduction in it, which would be the eventual
consequence. The best means of accomplishing these highly important ends shall be the subject
of the following section.

On the Means of reducing the Expences of this Colony.

The establishment of a free constitution in the place of the arbitrary authority of an individual,
would superinduce so many privileges of which the colonists have hitherto been debarred, that
they would not at first be fully sensible of the nature and extent of their new acquisitions.
The great facilities which would be presented to agricultural and commercial enterprize, would
not at once be generally perceived, or extensively embraced. Industry, though one of the most
active principles of human nature, settles when long restrained into a habit of inertion, which
cannot be instantly overcome. When the mounds within which this principle has been long confined,
are suddenly removed, it will not of itself rush at once into every new channel in its way,
and stop only when it has found its own level. It is not like fluids possessed of an inherent
elasticity and tendency to motion, but requires a directing impulse to set and continue it
in activity, and its activity will then only be in proportion to the power and energy applied.
It is not, therefore, to be expected, because the great fundamental changes which I have recommended
in the polity of this colony would if adopted, immediately create new sources of profitable
occupation, and completely unfetter the long restrained industry and enterprize of its inhabitants,
that they are at once to take full advantage of their situation. There is a timidity in man,
which though not sufficient to curb the adventurous spirit of his nature, tends materially
to check and repress it. This principle alone, therefore, would suffice to prevent the sober
and discreet part of the colonists from rushing headlong into the various new avenues of profitable
occupation that would be open to them; but there is also in their poverty a still more effectual
impediment. Though labour is itself the origin and measure of all wealth, it contributes but
little to public or private advantage when left to its own isolated and unconnected efforts.
It is only when in a state of union, and when subjected to the controul of a directing intelligence,
which can combine its energies, and render them subservient to the attainment of some single
end, that it becomes capable of effecting great beneficial results. But this necessary combination
of labour can only be maintained by the help of capital; and where such capital does not exist,
these great united efforts, the effect of the gradual accumulation of wealth, and the main
cause of the prosperity of all ancient and populous communities, cannot be immediately organized
and established. This observation in its reference to this colony, it will be seen, bears more
particularly on the commercial privileges of which its inhabitants would thus become possessed.
These undoubtedly would not be extensively embraced, until a very considerable accumulation
of capital should have arisen from the progress and perfection of agriculture. This and manufactures
are therefore the only two immediate channels that remain for the absorption of labour and
the development of industry. The latter, I have long since endeavoured to prove would never
have occupied any share of the attention of the colonists, had those encouragements which the
government had at their disposal, been bestowed on the former. The manufacturing system, now
so rapidly gaining ground, has been one of the retributive consequences of the short-sighted
and illiberal policy of which this unfortunate colony has been so long the victim, and will
cease of itself, whenever the existing impediments to the extension of agriculture shall be
removed, for the best of all reasons, because no person will select a less profitable undertaking
when a more profitable one, and one requiring less skill, capital, and assiduity, lies open
to him. Agriculture, therefore, as soon as it shall be freed from its present restraints, will
afford the readiest and most accessible channel for carrying off the large accumulation of
stagnant labour which at present infests this colony. It is this mass of superfluous labourers,
for whom there exists only a fictitious demand, and with whom the government are at present
obliged to give a bounty in the shape of clothing and provisions, to induce the settlers to
accept their services, that constitutes the main source of the great and increasing expenditure
of this colony; and it is to this point alone that all radical and comprehensive schemes of
retrenchment must be directed. The impoverished condition of the colonists, to which circumstance
alone the expences of the government are mainly attributable, arises from the means of employment
not keeping pace with the rapid increase in the population, and yet perhaps there is no community
in which equal encouragements to industry are to be found. It has already been stated that
within the last six years the population of this colony has actually doubled itself, in other
words, it has advanced in this respect with a celerity nearly four times as great as the United
States of America,--a country whose rapid numerical increase has been a subject of astonishment
to the whole world. It may therefore be perceived that this unparalleled augmentation in the
population of this colony, must of itself afford an unprecedented stimulus to agriculture;--a
stimulus, perhaps, with which the agricultural progress of any other country could not keep
pace. It is well known that Poland, which is the greatest corn country in Europe, and whose
whole strength is directed to the pursuits of agriculture, does not export more than one month's
consumption of grain for its population. America exports somewhat less, but would be able,
without doubt, to export somewhat more, if the collected force of its inhabitants were applied
to the raising of corn; yet still neither the one nor the other of these countries would be
enabled to support such a rapid increase of population as is taking place in this colony. Such,
however, is its fertility that the vast encouragement afforded by this unprecedented augmentation
in its numbers (who, it must be recollected, are for the most part adults, and not, as in the
case of old established societies, infants, and in consequence not gifted with the full powers
of consumption,) so prodigious, I say, is its fertility, that there is far from a sufficient
demand for labour. The settlements in Van Diemen's Land alone, on the occasion of the flood
which took place in the month of March, 1817, at the Hawkesbury river, the principal agricultural
establishment, and where, for the causes I have already explained, the colonists, in most instances,
allow their stacks to remain within the influence of these destructive inundations, were able
to supply Port Jackson with about twenty thousand bushels of wheat, the whole of which was
raised without any probability of a market, and would have perished in the hands of the growers,
or at best, have become the food of hogs, had it not been for the great loss of grain occasioned
by the overflowing of the above river. It may, therefore, be perceived, that the colonists
in Van Diemen's Land raise on the strength of the bare possibility of a flood happening at
the principal settlement, very nearly as much corn as is required for their own consumption;
and there can be no doubt if their industry was stretched to the utmost point of extension,
that they would be enabled to export at least three times as much as they thus casually furnished
in the year 1817. The settlements, however, at Port Jackson, cannot pretend to equal fertility
of soil, yet even their productive powers are considerably cramped by the want of an adequate
market. How this most important object might be effected, and profitable occupation created
for all the labour that is now, or may be hereafter disposable in the colony, I have already
explained at considerable length; and it is under the presumption that my recommendations on
this head will be deemed worthy of adoption, that I shall hereafter submit a plan for gradually
diminishing the colonial expenditure.

The readiest way of accomplishing this object would be to abolish at once the system of victualling
and clothing the convicts from the king's stores; but this is impracticable and must be done
judiciously, and in proportion only to the gradually increasing demand for labour. This mode
of retrenchment, indeed, has already been pushed further than circumstances have warranted.
The ticket of leave system, by which convicts are permitted to go on their own hands, and administer
in any way that they can to their own wants, though first intended as a reward to the really
reformed and meritorious convict, has of late years been resorted to as the most efficacious
means of lessening the expences of the government. And hence the very end and aim of this colony,
the reformation of the lawless gang who are transported to its shores, have been postponed
to a paltry saving, unworthy the character of the nation, and subversive in a great measure
of the philanthropic intentions with which the legislature were originally actuated. The alarming
increase of crime that has taken place within the last few years, is the re-action of this
pernicious and mercenary system, which has already been carried to such an extent as to endanger
the lives and property of every honest and well disposed inhabitant of the colony. This system,
so injurious of itself, has been powerfully seconded by the lax and indiscriminate manner in
which convict servants have been assigned to the various settlers. Being in most instances
freed or emancipated convicts themselves, many of them possess but little character, and in
fact only accept the different indulgences that are held out to colonization, with a view to
the immediate profit which they can derive from them, and without any intention of performing
the remote conditions which they tacitly or expressly enter into with the government. So long
as their servants are victualled and clothed at the cost of the crown, they in general avail
themselves fully of their services, but the moment this great indulgence ceases, they generally
compound with them, and in consideration of the performance of a stipulated quantity of labour
free of expence, grant them an exemption from their employment for the remainder of the year,
and consequently, a licence to prowl about the country, and plunder at every convenient opportunity,
the honest and deserving part of the community. And although the present governor has taken
every step that could be devised for the suppression of this pernicious practice, yet in consequence
of the thinly inhabited state of the colony, and the remoteness of the various agricultural
settlements from one another, circumstances which prevent the appointment of proper persons
to detect and punish such violations of public orders, his efforts have been in a great degree
unavailing. He is well aware of the nature of the disease under which the colony is languishing,
but he has not the power to administer the only effectual remedy. Create but a sufficient market
for the colonial produce, and labour will then become too valuable to be suffered thus to remain
in inactivity. It will then and not before be the interest of the settlers to push their servants'
exertions to the utmost. The competition that will then exist for the products of labour, will
be the best guarantee for its proper application. The method which I am about to submit for
the suppression of this alarming state of anarchy and danger, will, it must be confessed, occasion
a very considerable immediate addition of expence; but this is necessary to rectify the great
and increasing evils of the ticket of leave system, and to insure the honest and laborious
colonist that security of person and property which the injudicious extension, within these
few years, of this narrow-minded system has so greatly endangered. Without the enjoyment of
a full and sufficient protection, the colonists, however enlightened may be the future conduct
of their government in other respects, will make but a timid and feeble advance in the various
departments of internal industry. A certainty of reaping the fruits of their exertions, is
indeed an indispensable preliminary to the resumption of those active habits which have been
so long paralyzed, and a recurrence to which is the main stock whereon all shoots of future
retrenchment must be engrafted. Under a hope, therefore, that an internal legislature, which
I again insist can alone fully provide for the present and future necessities of this colony
will be established, I venture to propose the following plan for eventually diminishing the
scale of its expenditure:

First, That the ticket of leave system, except in as far as its continuance may be really essential
to the promotion of good conduct in the convicts, should be abolished.

Secondly, That the ticket of leave men, and all the convicts now in the service of individuals,
whether victualled and clothed at the expence of the crown or not, should be called in and
re-assigned, either to their present masters or to others, and that these should be allowed
with them the premium hereafter to be named; but that they should be previously in every instance
required to give security to the government, that such convict servants should not on any account
be permitted to be absent from their respective employments.

Thirdly, That instead of the present mode of victualling and clothing the convicts from the
king's stores, the settlers should be allowed a stipulated premium with them, one fifth less
than the actual cost of maintaining them, and that this premium should diminish one fifth yearly
from the date of the changes in the colonial polity, which have been recommended.

Fourthly, That the price now directed to be paid convict servants for their extra time, should
be reduced from £10 in the men, to £5; and from £7 to £3 10s. in the women: and that this reduction
should be subtracted from the amount of the above premium, and carried to the credit of the
government.

Fifthly, That all such convicts as may arrive in the colony within the five years next ensuing
the above period, other than those who may be required for the government works, should be
in like manner assigned to deserving applicants, with the decreased premium of the year in
which they may arrive.

Sixthly, That at the expiration of the above period of five years, the whole of the government
works which are now for the most part carried on by convicts, victualled and clothed from the
king's stores, should be performed by contract.

Seventhly, That the utmost encouragement should be held out by the government to the emigration
of wealthy individuals to the colony; and that with a view to effect this object, not only
a passage should be furnished them free of expence in the various transports, which are annually
sent thither, but that also the quantity of land to be hereafter granted them, should be increased
in proportion to their capital, from eight hundred acres (the present customary grant) up to
five thousand.

Lastly, That the unappropriated lands most eligibly situated for the purposes of colonization,
should be surveyed and marked out into sections, each containing one square mile, or six hundred
and forty acres; that each of these sections should be again subdivided into four parts; that
thirty-six of these sections should as in America form a township; that at stated periods the
lands so surveyed should be set up to auction, and sold to the best bidder, provided the price
offered for them should exceed one dollar per acre; if not, that they should be retained until
they could be sold for such price at some subsequent period; that the same credit should be
given for the purchase of these lands as is given in America, and the same discount on ready
money; and that the amount of such sales should go to the Police Fund, and be employed in defraying
the expences of the colony.

The object of the foregoing propositions must be too evident from the preliminary remarks which
I have made, to need any extended illustration; nevertheless, it may not be altogether inexpedient
to say a few words in further explanation of them to such persons as have bestowed no portion
of their attention on the circumstances and situation of this colony. The first, second, and
third articles speak for themselves. The remedy here proposed for the alarming evils, which
I have so copiously traced to the causes of their origin and continuance, will certainly occasion
the government for the next five years a very great additional expence; but after the most
mature reflection on the present impoverished state of this colony, and the deeply rooted habits
of idleness and vice, which a fifteen years' deprivation of the most important civil and political
rights has occasioned, I can devise none besides that could be applied with any probability
of effecting a radical and permanent cure. The arrangement recommended in the third article,
I mean the substitution of a premium for the present mode of clothing and victualling the convicts,
would be highly favourable to the agricultural interests, both by limiting to the cultivators
of the soil, the supply of the food consumed by their servants, and by sparing them the trouble
and expence of sending their carts for it to the king's stores, an exemption which would be
attended with a considerable saving to such of them as inhabit districts remote from the towns:
it would also be a source of economy to the government, by enabling them to make a great reduction
in the commissariat department. The only objection I can anticipate to this article, is, that
it fixes an arbitrary rate of reduction on the premium to be allowed the settlers with the
convicts; and that this rate may prove greater than the advance which the colony may make in
the various avenues of internal industry. This may possibly be the case, although I consider
the period I have named sufficiently protracted to allow the colonists due time to ascertain
the nature and extent of their newly acquired privileges, and to profit by them. If, however,
it were practicable, it would certainly be more eligible that they themselves should become
the arbiters of the abatement which should annually take place in the premium to be given with
the convicts. I do not, however, well know how this desideratum could be effected, unless the
grand juries during the circuit of the courts in the different districts, could be empowered
to inquire into and determine the increase that may take place in the demand for labour, and
regulate the price of it, or in other words the premium to be given with it accordingly. To
detract as far as possible from the increased expence which would follow the adoption of the
measures recommended in the first, second, and third articles, is the object of the fourth.
By making the abatement here proposed in the amount of the wages now directed to be paid by
the settlers to their convict servants, and carrying it to the credit of the government, an
immediate saving of £5 per man, and £3 10s. per woman would be effected. And if the calculation
be accurate that each male convict victualled and clothed at the expence of the crown costs
£18, and each female £12 10s. it will be seen that above one fourth more might be supported
by the government in the manner here recommended, and that likewise a fifth might be annually
added to the number, without occasioning any increase whatever in the colonial expenditure.
The weight too of this mode of retrenchment would not fall on the settler, and by operating
as a check to agriculture perhaps prolong the period when the various departments of industry
will be enabled to absorb the large mass of labour which is annually regurgitated on the shores
of this colony, but on the convicts themselves, to whose reformation indeed, (the primary object
of its foundation) it is essential that every incentive to the renewal of their ancient disorderly
and profligate habits should be withdrawn. Even with this diminished scale of wages, the situation
of the convicts would be far preferable to that of the labouring class in this country. £2
10s. to the men, and £1 10s. to the women, would then remain, independently of their food and
clothing, which is surely quite sufficient for the "menus plaisirs" of a set of persons who
are supposed to be smarting under the lash of the law. Article fifth needs no explanation.
Article sixth, contemplates the saving that might be effected in the public works of the government,
by exchanging at the expiration of the period, when the bounty to be allowed to settlers with
convicts shall cease, the present mode of carrying them on by a body of men, victualled and
clothed at the expence of the crown, for the more economical plan of contracting for them with
the lowest bidder. I limit the commencement of this method of retrenchment to the above period,
because so long as a necessity exists for giving a bounty with convicts, there can be no doubt
that it would be judicious for the government to profit as far as possible by the labour of
persons whom even in the employment of individuals, they would be in a great measure obliged
to support. But the moment this necessity shall cease, it is equally indubitable that a considerable
saving might be effected by carrying on the public works by contract. Where a body of fourteen
or fifteen hundred convicts are employed under the superintendence of the most active and upright
man, there will always be a system of idleness and plunder, which his assiduity will never
be able entirely to baffle. Out of the immense number of minor agents on whose intelligence
and integrity he would be obliged to place a considerable degree of dependence, it is not readily
to be believed, however great may be his activity and discrimination, that he would not be
frequently deceived, and that those very men on whom he most relied to suppress the dishonest
inclinations of others, would not themselves occasionally profit by the facilities to plunder
and peculation, which the confidence they enjoyed might throw in their way. That such is, and
always has been the case in this colony, no person at all conversant with its real state, can
have any hesitation in asserting; and consequently that the substitution of contracts in the
place of the present mode of conducting the public works, would become a very important source
of economy at the period in question. Article the seventh, is intended to encourage emigration
to the colony, and to turn to its shores some portion of the immense numbers who are annually
withdrawing from this country to the United States of America. It appears almost inexplicable
how the government can look on, and behold the thousands who are propelled by various causes
to quit their native land, and not make some vigorous efforts, if not to check this strong
tide of emigration, at least to divert it to our colonies, where in general it is so much required,
and might become of such immense and permanent utility to the empire. It is true that of those
who thus abandon the land of their forefathers, many are actuated by political animosities,
and could not by any means be induced to settle in any of our colonies. But it is not less
certain that there are others, and that the majority are of this class, whom mere distress
and inability to provide for the growing wants of their families, unalloyed with any political
feelings whatever, most reluctantly drive to seek an asylum in America, and who deeply lament
the necessity of betaking themselves to a country where they and their children may one day
be compelled to draw their paricidal swords against the mother that gave them birth. It cannot
indeed be denied that the government to prevent this horrible alternative, have for a long
time held out considerable encouragements to persons emigrating to Canada; but besides that
the policy of thus peopling at so considerable an expence a country which in the natural course
of events must become an integral member of the American union, is at least questionable, it
is well known that three-fourths of those who are thus induced to settle in Canada, end by
removing to the United States. The intense severity of the winters, and the unavoidable suspension
of the pursuits of agriculture during six months in the year, with the habits and language
of the Canadians, so repulsive and annoying to the generality of Englishmen, sufficiently account
for this circumstance, without taking into computation the superior advantages of climate and
soil which the greater part of the United States is represented as possessing. If the impolicy,
therefore, of encouraging emigration to Canada be disputed, still the inefficiency of the means
employed to attain the end contemplated by the government ought to decide them to try some
other expedient to prevent so large a stock of British industry and capital from thus adding
to the resources of a nation, who is already the most formidable, as she is the most rancorous
on the list of our enemies. No measure, perhaps, that could be adopted would tend so effectually
to the accomplishment of this object, as holding out the great encouragement specified in this
article to all such as may settle in this colony. Possessed as it is of a most salubrious and
diversified climate, fertile soil, and unbounded extent of territory, it evidently contains
every requisite for the formation of a great and flourishing community; and whenever it shall
be blessed with a free government will offer much greater facilities for the development of
industry and the acquisition of wealth, than are to be found in the United States. Until the
colony, however, shall possess this fundamental privilege, every attempt of the government
to divert the current of emigration thither from America must prove in a great measure unavailing.
A free constitution is the first want of those who have known the blessings of one; and no
prospects of profit to an honourable and independent mind can compensate for its loss. There
can be little doubt, therefore, that as soon as this indispensable preliminary to general emigration
shall be granted, thousands of persons will embark for this colony, and continue to contribute
to the wealth and power of their native country, who would otherwise become citizens of her
most formidable and inveterate rival.

The adoption also of the measures here recommended, would have a sensible effect in diminishing
the expenditure of this colony; and would amply compensate for any loss which the government
might sustain by affording settlers a passage thither, free of expence, in the transports.
I commenced this section by an attempt to prove that the great immediate hindrance to the employment
of the large mass of unoccupied labour in the various new departmeuts of internal industry
that will be created by the establishment of a free government, will arise from the want of
capital; and the premium I have recommended to be granted with convicts for the first five
years ensuing the proposed change in the colonial polity, is intended to impart an artificial
vigour into the community, and to allow of that accumulation of wealth, which may afterwards
suffice of itself to keep in solution all the disposable labour of the colony. Every accession,
therefore, of capital that may take place, will contribute to swell the colonial stock to that
extent which is necessary for the complete occupation of the convicts, and thus become the
means of accelerating the period when the government will be entirely emancipated from the
necessity of allowing the settlers a bounty with them.

The last article scarcely needs any explanation. Whenever that extensive emigration of capitalists
which I confidently anticipate would follow the establishment of a free government shall take
place, the sale of the crown lands would evidently become a source of considerable profit,
and would go a long way towards defraying the expences of the colony. It would also be the
means of bringing numbers of rich speculators thither, who wonld not think of emigrating even
for the increased indulgences which I have recommended in the foregoing article. A man of fortune
would then be enabled to vest his money in land to the exact extent that he might desire; whereas
at present, he must either be content with the portion assigned him, or else purchase by dribblets
the farms that may become vacant in the vicinity of his estate, and after all perhaps, be annoyed
by having the possessions of others in the midst of his own. It is true that individuals, who
do not possess sufficient land for the support of their flocks and herds, are allowed to feed
them on the unappropriated lands, and can therefore increase their stock to any extent they
may please. But the rapid progress of colonization places the crown lands every day at a greater
distance from the original settlements, and occasions a constant necessity for receding, so
that at last that part of his stock which the farmer cannot feed at home is gradually removed
to an inconvenient distance, and no longer can have the benefit of his personal superintendence.
With men of capital, therefore, the class of whom it has been seen that the colony is most
in need, this sale of the crown lands at half the price which is demanded for land in America,
would prove a very powerful stimulus to emigration, and would consequently have a twofold operation
in diminishing the expenditure of this colony; viz. by filling the coffers of the Police Fund,
and by occasioning that accession of capital, which I have before shewn to be essential before
the government can be freed from the burden of supporting the convicts.

On the Advantages which the Colony offers for Emigration.

After the gloomy picture which I have drawn of the actual condition of the colony; after having
represented both its agricultural and commercial interests as being already not only in a state
of impair, but also of increasing dilapidation and ruin, it may appear somewhat paradoxical
that I should attempt to wind up the account with an enumeration of the advantages which it
holds out to emigration. If due consideration, however, be given to the nature of the ingredients
of which the agricultural body is composed; if it be recollected that it consists principally
of persons, who have been since their earliest years habituated to every sort of vice and debauchery;
of persons bred up in cities, and unacquainted with the arts of husbandry, who had, therefore,
to contend against the combined force of an inveterate propensity to the profligate indulgences
of their ancient mode of life, and of utter ignorance of the laborious occupations and thrifty
arts of their new: I say if all these serious impediments to success be impartially weighed,
it will be seen that the anomaly is rather apparent than real. Nevertheless I do not mean to
imply that this colony or its dependencies, present at this moment any very flattering prospects
for the mere agriculturist. That the skilful farmer would be enabled to obtain an independent
and comfortable subsistence is, however, indubitable; and the larger his family, provided they
were of sufficient age to afford him an effectual co-operation, the greater would be his chance
of a successful establishment. Hundreds of this laborious class of people, who in spite of
unremitting toil and frugality, find themselves every day getting behind-hand with the world,
would undoubtedly better their condition by emigrating to this colony, if there were only a
probability that they would be enabled to go on from day to day as they are doing here. In
this country they are at best but tenants of the soil they cultivate; whereas there they would
be proprietors, and the mere advance which would be taking place in the value of their farms,
would before many years not only render them independent but even wealthy. Of the truth of
this assertion, we shall be fully convinced by referring to the price of land on the banks
of the Hawkesbury and Nepean rivers, the only parts which can be said to be even tolerably
colonized. It has already been stated that as far as the river Hawkesbury is navigable, the
unimproved land is worth five pounds per acre, and improved land double this amount. This land
was at first of no value whatever; because in the infancy of societies, so long as there is
an unlimited scope of land of the first quality, which any one may occupy as far as his occasions
require, it is evident that there would be no purchasers; since it is absurd to imagine that
any one would buy that which he could obtain for nothing. It is only, as Mr. Ricardo has demonstrated,
when land of an inferior quality is brought into cultivation, and when the difference in the
produce of the two sorts gives the occupier of the one a superiority over the occupier of the
other, and renders it as eligible for a person to cultivate land of the first description as
a tenant, and to pay the proprietor the difference of produce by way of rent, as to be himself
the proprietor of land of the second description; or when the situation of the different appropriated
tracts of land does not admit of the conveyance of their produce to market at an equal cost;
and thus again gives the owners of those farms which are more contiguous, an advantage over
the owners of those which are more remote: I say it is only when societies have made that progress,
which begets one or other of these contingencies, or both, that land is of any value whatever.
In the course, therefore, of thirty-one years, the tract of land in question, taking the unimproved
part as our criterion, since the improvements made in that portion of it, which is in a state
of cultivation, may be considered tantamount to the difference in value between the one and
the other, has evidently risen to this enormous price, from having been of no worth whatever:
or in other words, each acre of land has increased in value during the interval that has elapsed
since the foundation of the colony at the rate of 3s. 2 1/2d. per annum; and this too under
the most impolitic and oppressive system, to which any colony, perhaps, was ever subjected.
How much greater then, will be the future rise in the value of landed property, if, as there
is now every reason to hope from the attention which the government are at this moment paying
to the state of this colony, the whole of the disabilities under which its inhabitants have
been so long groaning, should at length be abandoned? Without taking at all into the estimate
the immediate amelioration which a radical change in the polity of this colony, would occasion
in the condition of the agricultural body; without depending on the probability that it will
soon be in the power of the laborious and frugal settler to rise rapidly to wealth and independence;
it must be evident that the mere increase which is yearly taking place in the value of landed
property, affords of itself the strongest inducement to emigration; since if it does not hold
out to the industrious man the prospect of acquiring immediate wealth, it relieves him from
all apprehensions for his family, should a premature destiny overtake himself. He at least
knows that every succeeding year will be augmenting in a rapid manner the value of his farm,
and that the same spot which administers to his and their present wants, cannot fail to suffice
for their future. This is of itself a most consolatory prospect; it at all events prevents
the present good from being embittered with any dread of future evil; it permits the industrious
man the tranquil enjoyment of the fruits of his labours, and rescues him from the necessity
of hoarding up against the approach of gathering calamity, against the stormy season of impending
poverty.

The amelioration, that would take place in the condition of the mere labourer, who should emigrate
to this colony, without funds adequate to the formation of an agricultural establishment, would
not be so considerable. Still there can be no doubt that the honest and industrious man would
always be able to provide for himself and his family a sufficiency of food and clothing; comforts
which with his utmost endeavours he can hardly obtain in this country without having recourse
to parochial relief. He would, therefore, at all events emancipate himself from this humiliating,--this
demoralizing necessity; for although there is confessedly a greater portion of labour in the
colony than can at present be maintained in activity, any person who might emigrate thither
voluntarily would easily find employment, when those who are, or have been under the operation
of the law would seek for it in vain. A good character is a jewel of greater value there than
in this country, because it is more difficult to be met with; and consequently all the advantages
which it procures its possessor in the one place, it will insure him at least in a two-fold
measure in the other.

The colony offers very little encouragement to the manufacturer. The manufacturing interests
are not at present in the most prosperous situation; and if the government should, as there
is every probability, at length adopt those measures which are called for by every consideration
of justice and expediency, a few years will annihilate them entirely. To this class therefore,
with reference both to the proprietor and workman, a removal to this colony would undoubtedly
be prejudicial.

For the artisan and mechanic, who are skilled in the works of utility, rather than of luxury,
there is, as it has been already remarked, no part of the world, perhaps, which affords an
equal chance of success. To any, therefore, who have the means of transporting themselves and
families to this colony, the removal would be in the highest degree advantageous. They could
not fail to find immediate employment, and receive a more liberal return for their labour,
than they would be able to procure elsewhere. The blacksmith, carpenter, cooper, stone-mason,
brick-layer, brick-maker, wheel and plough-wright, harness-maker, tanner, shoe-maker, taylor,
cabinet-maker, ship-wright, sawyer, etc. etc. would very soon become independent, if they possessed
sufficient prudence to save the money which they would earn. For the master artisan and mechanic,
the prospect of course is still more cheering; since the labour they would be enabled to command
would be proportioned to the extent of their capital.

The advantages, however, which the colony offers to this class of emigrants, great as they
undoubtedly are, when considered in an isolated point of view, are absolutely of no weight
when placed in the balance of comparison against those which it offers to the capitalist, who
has the means to embark largely in the breeding of fine woolled sheep. It may be safely asserted
that of all the various openings which the world at this moment affords for the profitable
investment of money, there is not one equally inviting as this single channel of enterprize
offered by the colony. The proof of this assertion I shall rest on a calculation so plain and
intelligible, as I hope to be within the scope of the comprehension of all. Before we proceed,
however, it is necessary to settle a few points, as the data on which this calculation is to
be founded; viz. the value of wool, the weight of the fleece, and the number of sheep to be
kept in a flock. With regard to the value of the wool grown in this colony, the last importations
of the best quality averaged five shillings and sixpence per pound in the fleece. This was
sold last month; [March, 1819] and as the market was at that time overcharged, and as moreover
the best description of wool yet produced in this colony, is far from having attained the perfection
of which it is capable, and which a few more crosses with the pure breed will undoubtedly effect
in it, it may be safely concluded, that this is the lowest price at which this sort of wool
will ever be sold. This will be more evident, if we contemplate the gradual rise in value,
which the wool from the same gentleman's flocks has been experiencing during the last four
years. In 1816, it was sold for 2s. 6d. per pound in the fleece; in March, 1818, for 3s. 6d.
per pound; in July, 1818, for 4s. 4d. per pound; and in March, 1819, for 5s. 6d. per pound
in the fleece. For some of this last quantity of wool, properly sorted and washed, Mr. Hurst
of Leeds was offered 9s. per pound, and refused it. To take the future average price of wool
at 5s. 6d. per pound, is, therefore, forming an estimate, which in all probability will fall
far short of the truth. However, let this be one of our data; and let us allow three pounds,
which is also an estimate equally moderate, as the average weight of each fleece. The weight
of a yearling's fleece may be taken at three quarters of a pound, and the value of the wool
at 2s. 9d. per pound. The number of ewes generally kept in a flock by the best breeders are
about 330, and we will suppose that the emigrant has the means of purchasing a flock of this
size of the most improved breed: this with a sufficient number of tups may be had for £1000.
These points being determined, let us now proceed to our calculation.

[Table not included in this text version--see html version. Ed.]

It would be useless to prosecute this calculation, since any person who may be anxious to ascertain
its further results, may easily follow it up himself. It will be seen that with the most liberal
allowances for all manner of expenses, casualties and deteriorations, capital invested in this
channel will yield the first year an interest of 13½ per cent. besides experiencing itself
an increase of nearly 24 per cent.; that the second year it will yield an interest of nearly
25 per cent. besides experiencing itself a further increase of rather more than 37½ per cent.;
and that the third year it will yield an interest of nearly 37 per cent. besides experiencing
itself an additional increase of about 42½ per cent. or, in other words, money sunk in the
rearing of sheep in this colony will, besides paying an interest of about 75½ per cent. in
the course of three years, rather more than double itself. Here then is a mode of investing
capital by which the proprietor may insure himself not only an annual interest, the ratio of
which would augment every year in the most astonishing progression, but by which the capital
itself also would experience an advance still more rapid and extraordinary. Any person, therefore,
who has the means of embarking in this speculation, could not fail with common attention to
realize a large fortune in a few years. His chance of so doing would be still greater if he
should happen to be acquainted with the management of sheep; but this is by no means an indispensable
qualification; for such is the fineness of the climate, both in the settlements in New Holland
and Van Diemen's Land, that all those precautions which are necessary to be observed in this
country, in order to shelter this animal from the inclemency of the seasons, are there, quite
superfluous: sheds, indeed, are not only useless, but injurious; the flocks never do so well
as when they are continually exposed to the weather. It is only necessary that the folds should
be shifted every other day, or if the sheep are kept by night in yards, to take care that these
are daily swept out.

The extent to which capital might thus be invested is boundless; since if the breeder did not
possess as much land as would feed the number of sheep that he might wish to keep, he would
only have to send his flocks beyond the limits of colonization, and retire with them as the
tide of population approached. His hurdles, and the rude huts or tents of his shepherds, might
always be removed with very little difficulty and expense; and if his and his neighbours' flocks
should happen to come into contact, such is the immensity of the wilderness which would lie
before him, that he might exclaim in the language of Abram to Lot: "Let there be no strife
I pray thee between me and thee, and between my herdsmen and thy herds-men; for we be brethren.
Is not the whole land before us? Such, should any of these disputes occur, might always be
their amicable termination. There is, and will be for ages to come, whatever may be the extent
of emigration, more land than can possibly be required. The speculation, therefore, of growing
wool can meet with no checks from the want of pasturage in the colony, and it is equally improbable
that it can be impeded by the want of a market in this country. It is well known that the Saxon
wool cannot be sold under the present prices without loss to the growers. The severity of the
climate of Saxony, renders it indispensable for the sheep-holders to take a variety of precautions
which are not only useless in this colony, but would even prove highly detrimental to the constitution
of this valuable animal. In the former country, the flocks are kept almost invariably in sheds
of a very costly construction both by day and night, and are fed almost wholly upon hay; in
the latter, they are always better when kept in the open air and fed on the spontaneous herbage
of the forest. The mildness of the seasons, therefore, spares the colonists two immense sources
of expence, and will without doubt in the end, enable them to undersell and ruin the Saxon
wool growers; since the only point of superiority these latter can pretend to is their greater
contiguity to the market, and this, in consequence of the extreme value of the commodity, is
of too trifling import to demand consideration. The freight of wool from the colony, has already
been reduced to three pence per pound, which is very little more than is paid for the transport
of wool from Saxony; and all the other expences, with the exception of insurance, as brokerage,
store-room, etc. are precisely the same. Upon these grounds, therefore, I am contented to rest
the support of my assertion, that the world does not at present contain so advantageous, and
I might also add, so extensive an opening for the investment of capital as the one in question.

With reference to the commercial prospects presented by this colony, they are certainly much
more limited, but still of very considerable scope. The extraordinary fluctuations which are
incessantly taking place in the prices of all sorts of merchandize, are evidently capable of
being turned to great account by a skilful and cool calculator. Any person of this character
possessed of sufficient capital to enable him to buy goods when the market should happen to
be in a state of depression, and to keep them in his store till the glut should pass by, could
not fail to realize a rapid fortune. The only event that could prevent his success, would be
an imprudent avidity. If he should be once tempted to go out of his depth, so that he would
be compelled to sell whether at gain or loss, in order to make good his payments, he would
most probably sink never more to rise. But if he would never speculate beyond the compass of
his actual means, he might easily clear fifty per cent. per annum on the amount of his trading
capital.

Were I asked to particularize any avenue of industry not strictly included in any of the foregoing
general classes, in which persons inclined to emigrate to this colony, might embark with a
fair chance of success, I should say that any one who had the means of taking out a steam engine
of six or eight-horse-power with the requisite machinery for sawing boards, would make it answer
his purposes very well; that a timber merchant also, possessing a capital of three or four
thousand pounds, might employ his funds very advantageously by establishing a timber yard;
and that a skilful brewer who could command five thousand pounds and upwards, would succeed
either at Sydney or Hobart Town. It would be necessary, however, that he should understand
the process of making malt, since there are no regular maltsters yet in the colony, and that
he should also grow his own hops.* Until, therefore, he had established a hop plantation sufficient
for his concern it would be requisite that he should make arrangements to be supplied with
hops from this country. There are already several breweries in New South Wales, but the beer
which is made in them is so bad, that many thousand pounds worth of porter and ale imported
from this country, is annually consumed in these settlements. This is in some measure occasioned
by the inferiority of the barley grown at Port Jackson; but more, I am inclined to believe,
by the want of skill in the brewers. If the indifferent quality of the beer, however, be attributable
to the badness of the barley, this impediment to success would be removed by emigrating to
Van Diemen's Land; since the barley raised in both the settlements in this island is equal
to the best produced in this country. I should also say, that the skilful dairyman who could
take out with him a capital of from one to two thousand pounds, would do well in any of these
settlements, but more particularly in New South Wales. Butter, as it has been already remarked,
is still as high as 2s. 6d. per pound, notwithstanding the immense increase which has taken
place in the black cattle. The extreme dearness of this article arises principally from the
natural grasses not being sufficiently nutritive to keep milch cattle in good heart, and from
the colonists not having yet got into the proper method of providing artificial food. Any one,
therefore, who would introduce the dairy system practised in this country, could hardly fail
of finding his account in it.

[* The hop thrives very well at Port Jackson: there are several flourishing plantations owned
by the brewers. This plant has not, I believe, yet been introduced into the southern settlements;
but as they bear a much greater affinity to this country in point of climate than Port Jackson,
no doubt can be entertained that it might at least be cultivated there with equal certainty
of success.]

These various advantages which this colony and its dependencies offer for emigration, have
many points of superiority over any to which the United States of America can lay claim; if
we even admit the truth of all that the most enthusiastic admirers of that country have written,
respecting its flourishing condition. Mr. Birbeck*, whose "Letters," if not "Notes," contain
strong marks of an exaggerated anticipation of their resources and capabilities, has not, though
evidently under the influence of feelings quite incompatible with a correct and disinterested
judgment, ventured to rate his imaginary maximum of the profit to be derived from farming in
the Illinois, (which appears to be the principal magnet of attraction possessed by the United
States,) so high as I have proved by a calculation, to which I defy any one to attach the character
of hyperbolical, that the investment of capital in the growth of fine wool in this colony will
infallibly produce. This too, although certainly the most inviting and extensive channel of
enterprize which it contains, is not its only ground of preference: it has many temptations
besides for emigration, of which the United States are wholly destitute: among these the following
are perhaps the most considerable.

[* See Mr. Cobbett's Letter to Mr. Birbeck on his "Letters from the Illinois."]

First, Any person of respectability upon emigrating to this colony, is given as much land as
would cost him four hundred pounds in the United States.

Secondly, He is allowed as many servants as he may require; and the wages which he is bound
to pay them, are not one third the amount of the price of labour in America.

Thirdly, He, his family and servants, are victualled at the expence of the government for six
months.

These are three considerations of great importance to the emigrant, and quite peculiar to this
colony: added to which the value of the produce of this gratuitous land and labour is three
times as great as in the Illinois, as will be seen by a comparison of the prices of produce
there as given by Messrs. Birbeck and Fearon, and the prices of similar produce as stated in
the first part of this work. It is true that there is not the same unlimited market as in America;
but it must be evident, that, if the price of labour were even equal, the colonist who could
dispose of one third of his crops, would be in a better condition than if he were established
in the Illinois, and could find vent for the whole. The market, however, has never been circumscribed
to this degree in periods of the greatest abundance; and the immense arrivals of convicts,
that have been daily taking place for the last three years, have increased the consumptive
powers of the colony so considerably, that there has at most been but a very trifling surplus
in the barns of the farmers at the close of the year. On the other hand, all articles of foreign
growth and manufacture are in general much cheaper than in the Illinois, and the other remote
parts of the American Union, provided the purchaser has ready money, and is not under the necessity
of having recourse to secondary agents for goods on long credit.

Here, then, are many powerful reasons why persons bent on emigration should prefer this colony
to America. The only point is whether the latter can throw any weightier arguments into the
opposite scale. What may be urged on the other side of the question, may, I apprehend, be comprised
under these two heads: first, the greater contiguity of the United States to this country,
and the consequent ease and cheapness with which emigration thither may be effected; and, secondly,
the superiority of their government.

The first of these points merits very little consideration, except in the instance of those
who have not the means of choosing between the two countries. If a person only possess the
power of removing to that which is the more contiguous, eligibility is out of the question:
he is no longer a free agent. But the difference in the cost of emigrating is far from being
so considerable as might be imagined on a mere view of their comparative distances from this
country. I understand that a gentleman of great experience and respectability in the commercial
world, has presented a calculation to the committee of the House of Commons, which is now occupied
with an inquiry into the state of this colony, from which it appears that a family, consisting
of a man, his wife and two children, with five tons for their accommodation and for the reception
of their baggage, might emigrate to the colony for one hundred pounds, inclusive of every contingent
expense, provided a sufficient number of families could be collected to freight a ship. The
same gentleman calculates that a single man might be taken out thither for thirty pounds.*
The difference, therefore, in the mere cost of emigrating to the two places is so trifling,
that the superior locality of the one cannot be admitted as any sort of set off against the
superior advantages of the other. With respect, however, to the last plea, that has been adduced
in favour of emigration to the United States, the superiority which they possess in a free
government, it must be admitted, that this is a decisive ground of preference, and a blessing
to which the greatest pecuniary advantages cannot be considered a sufficient counterpoise.
And if it be imagined that the present arbitrary system of government is not drawing to a conclusion;
if it be apprehended that it has not yet reached its climax of oppression and iniquity, and
that it will be enforced until all who are within the sphere of its influence are reduced to
a state of moral degradation and infamy, and the colony becomes one vast stye of abomination
and depravity; the emigrant will do well to discard from his mind every mercenary consideration,
and to turn away with disgust from all prospects of gain; so long as they are only to be realized
by entering into so contagious and demoralizing an association. But if he believe that the
hour is at hand when the present system is to be abolished; when oppression is to be hurled
from the car in which it has driven triumphantly over prostrate justice, virtue, and religion;
and when the dominion of right and morality is to be asserted and established; then I have
no hesitation in recommending him to give a preference to this colony. In the agonies of approaching
dissolution, the efforts of tyranny will be feeble and impotent. Moral corruption, though the
inevitable result of a voluntary submission to the will, is not the consequence of an indignant
and impatient sufferance of its rule for a season; and the chance of personal injury would
be still more precarious and uncertain. Under the most arbitrary governments the vengeance
of the despot has seldom been known to extend beyond the circle of his court; his victims have
been among the ambitious candidates for power and distinction. The retired pursuits of unobtrusive
industry have proved a sanctuary, which has remained inviolate in all ages.

APPENDIX.

Civil Establishment, and Public Institutions in the Territory of New South Wales and its Dependencies.

Seat of Government, Sydney.

* * *

Captain General, Governor in Chief, Vice Admiral, and Commander of the Forces, His Excellency
Lachlan Macquarie, Esq. Major General in the Army, and Lieutenant Colonel of the 73d Regiment.

* * *

Lieutenant Governor--James Erskine, Esq. Lieutenant Colonel of the 48th Regiment.

Aid-de-Camp to his Excellency the Governor, John Watts, Lieutenant in the 46th Regiment.

Major of Brigade--Henry Colden Antill, Captain in the 73d Regiment.

* * *

High Court of Appeals.

Judge--His Excellency the Governor in Chief.

Secretary--John Thomas Campbell, Esq.

Clerk--Michael Robinson, Gent.

Door-keeper--Serjeant Charles Whalan, of the 46th Regiment.

* * *

Court of Vice Admiralty.

Judge--John Wylde, Esq. L. L. B.

Registrar--John Thomas Campbell, Esq.

Clerk to the Registrar--Mr. Michael Robinson.

Marshal--William Gore, Esq.

Cryer--Mr. Edward Quin.

* * *

The Governor's Court.

The Honorable the Judge Advocate and Premier Judge of this Territory--John Wylde, Esq. L. L. B.

Members--Two Inhabitants of the Territory, specially appointed by Precept from His Excellency
the Governor and Commander of the Forces.

Clerk, and Registrar of the Court--Joshua J. Moore, Gent.

Cryer--Mr. Edward Quin.

* * *

And it is to be noted, that this Court has cognizance of all pleas, where the amount sued for
does not exceed 501. sterling (except such pleas as may arise between party and party, in Van
Diemen's Land); and from its decisions there is no appeal.

* * *

The Supreme Court.

The Honorable the Judge--Barron Field, Esq.

Members--Two Magistrates of the Territory, appointed by Precept from His Excellency the Governor.

Clerk of the Supreme Court--Mr. John Gurner.

Cryer--Mr. Edward Quin.

Solicitors--Mr. Thomas Wylde; Mr. William Henry Moore; Mr. Frederick Garling; Mr. T. S. Amos.

* * *

Secretary's Office.

Secretary--John Thomas Campbell, Esq.

Principal Clerk Michael Robinson, Gent.

Second ditto--Mr. Charles Reid.

Assistant Clerks--Mr. James Sumpter; Mr. Thomas Ryan.

* * *

Commissariat Staff.

Deputy Commissary General--David Allan, Esq.

Assistant Commissary General--John Palmer, Esq. Parramatta;

Acting Assistant Commissary General--W. Broughton, Esq. Hobart Town;

Deputy Assistant Commissary General--P. G. Hogan, Esq.

Acting Ditto--Thomas Archer, Esq. Port Dalrymple.

Clerks on the Commissariat Staff--Mr. E. Hobson, Parramatta; Mr. A. Allan, Sydney; Mr. R. Fitzgerald,
Windsor; Mr. George Johnston, Sydney.

Principal Assistant Clerk--Mr. T. W. Middleton.

Storekeepers--Mr. W. Scott, Sydney; Mr. S. Larken, Parramatta; Mr. John Tucker, Newcastle;
Mr. R. Dry, Port Dalrymple; Mr. John Gowen, Liverpool; Mr. John Rayner, Hobart Town.

Assistant Clerks--Mr. John Flood, Mr. E. J. Yates, Mr. John Rickards, Mr. J. Hankinson, Mr.
George Smith, Mr. C. Sommers, Mr. N. Edgworth, Mr. C. Bridges, Mr. W. Todhunter, Mr. Richard
Walker, Mr. Todd Watson--at Sydney.

Mr. J. Obee, at Parramatta--Mr. B. Rix, at Windsor--Mr. W. Kitchener, Port Dal.--Mr. John Gregory,
Hobart Town--Mr. W. Turner, Hobart Town.

Messenger--Thomas Parsons.

Store Assistant--T. Jennings.

Cooper--Edward Hewen.

* * *

Provost Marshall's Department.

Provost Marshall--William Gore, Esq.

Clerk--Mr. Henry Hart;

Bailiff and Officer at Sydney--Mr. W. Evans;

Ditto at Windsor, etc.--Mr. Richard Ridge.

* * *

Church Establishment.

Principal Chaplain of the Territory--The Rev. Samuel Marsden, Parramatta;

Assistant Chaplain at Sydney--Rev. Wm. Cowper;

Assistant Chaplain at Windsor--Rev. Robert Cartwright;

Assistant Chaplain at Castlereagh--Rev. Henry Fulton;

Assistant Chaplain for Port Dalrymple, but now officiating at Liverpool--Rev. John Youl.

Assistant Chaplain appointed for Liverpool--Rev. Ben. Vale, returned to Europe on leave of absence.

Parish Clerk of St. Philip's, Sydney--Mr. Thomas Taber;

Ditto of St. John's, Parramatta--Mr. John Eyre;

Ditto of the Chapel at Windsor--Mr. Joseph Harpur.

* * *

Magistrates.

The Principal Magistrate of the Territory, and Chairman of the Bench of Magistrates at Sydney--The
Honorable the Judge Advocate.

Magistrates of the Territory and its Dependencies.

D'Arcy Wentworth, Esq.

John Thomas Campbell, Esquire.

Magistrates of the various Settlements of the Territory.

At Sydney--W. Broughton, Esq. absent at Hobart Town; Simeon Lord, Esq. Richard Brooks, Esq.

Clerk to the Bench of Magistrates--Joshua John Moore, Gent.

Assistant Clerk--Mr. Ezekiel Wood.

At Parramatta--The Rev. Samuel Marsden; Hannibal M'Arthur, Esq.

At Windsor--William Cox, Esq.

At Wilberforce--Rev. Robert Cartwright;

At Castlereagh--James Mileham, Esq. Rev. Henry Fulton;

At Liverpool--Thomas Moore, Esq.

At Bringelly--Robert Lowe, Esq.

At Hobart Town--Rev. Robert Knopwood, A. M. A. W. H. Humphrey, Esq. James Gordon, Esq. Francis
Williams, Esq. A. F. Kemp, Esq.

At Port Dalrymple--Brevet Major James Stewart, 46th Regiment; Thomas Archer, Esq.

* * *

Medical Staff.

Principal Surgeon--D'Arcy Wentworth, Esq.

First Assistant ditto--Mr. James Mileham, at Windsor.

Second ditto ditto--Mr. William Redfern, at Sydney;

Acting ditto ditto--Mr. Wm. Evans, at Newcastle;

Acting ditto ditto--Mr. Major West, at Parramatta;

Acting ditto ditto--Mr. R. W. Owen, at Sydney;

Acting ditto ditto at the Lunatic Asylum, Castle: Hill, Mr. Thomas Parmeter.

Assistant at General Hospital--Mr. Henry Cowper.

* * *

Surveyors of Crown Lands.

Surveyor General--John Oxley, Esq.

Deputy Surveyor--Mr. James Meehan.

Ditto at Hobart Town--Mr. G. W. Evans.

* * *

Collector of Quit-Rents, Mr. James Meehan.

* * *

Naval Officer's Department.

Naval Officer--John Piper, Esq.

Assistant to the Naval Officer--Mr. Alfred Thrupp.

Wharfingers--Mr. William Hutchinson; Mr. James Stewart.

* * *

Acting Engineer, and Artillery Officer, and Inspector of Government Works--Captain John Gill,
46th Regiment.

Civil Architect--Mr. F. H. Greenway.

* * *

Barrack Master--Charles M'Intosh, Esq.

* * *

His Majesty's Dock Yard.

Master Boat Builder--Mr. William Cossar.

Book-keeper--Mr. John Fowler.

* * *

Harbour Master--Mr. Stephen Milton.

* * *

Superintendents.

Of Government Stock--Mr. Rowland Hassall;

Assistant Superintendent of ditto--Mr. Sam. Hassall;

Of the Lunatic Asylum at Castle Hill--Mr. George Sutter;

Of Government Labourers and Cattle, and of Public Works at Windsor--Mr. Richard Fitzgerald;

Of Public Labourers, etc. at Sydney--Mr. William Hutchinson;

Of Carpenters at Parramatta--Mr. Richard Rouse;

Of Bricklayers--Mr. Thomas Legg;

Of Government Mills--Mr. Abraham Hutchinson.

* * *

Principal Overseers of Government Stock, under the Orders of the Superintendent.

Mr. Thomas Arkell, and Mr. William Chalker.

* * *

Trustees and Commissioners of Turnpike Roads and Highways.

For the Roads from Sydney to Hawkesbury--D'Arcy Wentworth, Simeon Lord, and James Mileham,
Esquires;

For the Roads to and from Liverpool, branching out at any of the above--Thomas Moore, Esq.

* * *

Inspector of Highways and Bridges--Mr. James Meehan.

* * *

Female Orphan Institution.

Patron--His Excellency the Governor.

Patronesses--Mrs. Macquarie; Mrs. Wylde; Mrs. Hannibal M'Arthur.

Committee for the Orphan Fund.

His Honor Lieutenant Governor Erskine;

The Honorable Mr. Judge Advocate Wylde;

The Reverend Samuel Marsden, Principal Chaplain;

The Reverend Wm. Cowper, Assistant Chaplain;

Hannibal M'Arthur, Esq.

Treasurer--Reverend Samuel Marsden;

Master of the School--Mr. William Hosking;

Matron--Mrs. Hosking.

Institution for the Civilization, Care, and Education of the Aborigines or Black Natives of
New South Wales.

Patron, the Governor; Patroness, Mrs. Macquarie.

* * *

Committee.

1. His Honor Lieutenant Governor Erskine, President. 2. The Honorable Mr. Judge Advocate Wylde;--3.
J. T. Campbell, Esq.--4. D. Wentworth, Esq.--5. William Redfern, Esq.--6. H. M'Arthur, Esq.--7.
The Rev. Wm. Cowper;--8. The Rev. Hen. Fulton;--9. Mr. Rowland Hassall.

Secretary and Treasurer of the Institution--John Thomas Campbell, Esq.

Schoolmaster--

* * *

Masters of the Public Schools throughout the Territory.

At Sydney--Mr. Thomas Bowden;

At Liverpool--Mr. Robert Keeves;

At Parramatta--Mr. John Eyre;

At Windsor--Mr. Joseph Harpur;

At Richmond--Mr. Matthew Hughes;

At Kissing Point--Mr. James Cooper;

At Wilberforce--Mr. M. P. Thompson;

At Newcastle--Mr. H. Rainsforth.

* * *

Police Establishment at Sydney.

Committee of the Police Fund.

The Lieutenant Governor; the Judge Advocate.

Treasurer--D'Arcy Wentworth, Esq.

Superintendent of Police--D'Arcy Wentworth, Esq.

Assistant to the Superintendent--Mr. Robert Jones.

Principal Clerk in the Police Office . . .

Assistant Clerk--Mr. Ezekiel Wood.

Six District Constables, and 50 Constables in Ordinary;

Chief Constable at Sydney--Mr. John Redman;

Ditto ditto at Parramatta--Mr. Francis Oakes;

Ditto ditto at Windsor--Mr. John Howe.

Keeper of the County Gaol at Sydney--Mr. John Jaques.

Clerk to ditto--George Jubb.

* * *

Coroner--Mr. J. W. Lewin.

Ditto for Windsor, and the Districts on the Banks of the Hawkesbury--Mr. Thomas Hobby.

* * *

Bank of New South Wales.

President--J. T. Campbell, Esq.

Directors--D'Arcy Wentworth, Esq.--John Harris, Esq.--Thomas Wylde, Esq.--William Redfern,
Esq.--William Gore, Esq.--Robert Jenkins, Esq.

Secretary and Cashier--Mr. E. S. Hall.

Principal Accountant--Mr. R. Campbell, junior.

* * *

Printing Office.

Government Printer--Mr. George Howe.

* * *

Post Office.

Post Master--Mr. Isaac Nichols.

Deputy at Hobart Town--Mr. James Mitchell.

* * *

Licensed Auctioneers and Appraisers.

At Sydney--Mr. Simeon Lord; Mr. David Bevan.

At Parramatta--Mr. Richard Rouse; Mr. Francis Oakes.

At Windsor--Mr. John Howe.

Clerk of the Market at Sydney--Mr. Miles Fieldgate.

Clerk of the Market and Fair at Parramatta--Mr. Francis Oakes.

N. B. These Fairs are held half-yearly; viz. the second Thursday in March, and the first Thursday
in October

* * *

Marine Establishment.

His Majesty's Colonial Cutter Mermaid, employed in surveying the Coast, Lieutenant Philip Parker
King, R. N. Commander.

His Majesty's Colonial Brig Elizabeth Henrietta--Mr. Thomas Whyte, Master.

His Majesty's Colonial Brig Lady Nelson, at present undergoing repair--Mr. David Smith, Master.

* * *

Harbour Pilots.

At Port Jackson--Mr. Robert Mason; Mr. Robert Murray.

At Hunter's River--Robert Whitmore.

* * *

Newcastle.

Commandant--Captain Wallis, of the 46th Regt.

Acting Assistant Surgeon--Mr. William Evans.

Store-keeper--Mr. John Tucker.

* * *

Civil Establishment at Hobart Town.

Lieutenant Governor of the Settlements on Van Diemen's Land--Lieutenant Colonel William Sorrell;

Deputy Judge Advocate--Edward Abbott, Esq.

Chaplain--Reverend R. Knopwood, A. M.

Surgeon--Mr. Edward Luttrell;

Assistant Surgeon--Mr. H. St. John Younge;

Acting Assist. Commissary General--W. Broughton, Esq.

Provost Marshal--Mr. Martin Tims;

Surveyor of Lands--Mr. G. W. Evans;

Inspector of Public Works--Captain Nairn, 46th Regt.;

Naval Officer--Mr. John Beamont;

Store-keeper--Mr. Rayner;

Auctioneer--Mr. Richard Lewis;

Harbour Pilot--Mr. Michael Mansfield;

Two Superintendents, and two Overseers.

Magistrates at Hobart Town.

Reverend R. Knopwood, A. M; Acting Assistant Commissary General Broughton; James Gordon, Esq.;
A. W. H. Humphrey, Esq.; Francis Williams, Esq.; A. F. Kemp, Esq.

* * *

The Lieutenant Governor's Court, Van Diemen's Land.

Deputy Judge Advocate--Edward Abbott, Esq.;

And two resident Inhabitants, appointed as Members by His Honor the Lieutenant Governor.

Clerk to the Deputy Judge Advocate--Mr. N. Ayres.

* * *

And it is by Charter provided, that the present and all future Governors, Lieutenant Governors,
the Judge Advocate, Judge of the Supreme Court, and Deputy Judge Advocate, shall be Justices
of the Peace throughout the Territory and its Dependencies; and all Places and Settlements
therein, with all the Powers possessed by Justices of the Peace in England, within their respective
Jurisdiction.

* * *

Civil Establishment at Port Dalrymple.

Commandant--Brevet Major James Stewart, 46th Regt.

Assistant Chaplain, now doing duty at Head Quarters, Reverend John Youl;

Surgeon--Mr. Jacob Mountgarret;

Assistant Surgeon--Mr. John Smith;

Superintendent of the Government Herds--David Rose, Esq.

Inspector of Government Public Works--Mr. William Elliot Leith;

Store-keeper--Mr. R. Dry.

Harbour Master.

Master of the Public School--Mr. Thomas M'Queen;

Acting Master Carpenter--Mr. Richard Sydes.

* * *

Magistrates--Brevet Major James Stewart, 46th Regt. Thomas Archer, Esq.

* * *

Fees and Dues in the Various Offices.

* * *

SECRETARY'S OFFICE.--GOVERNOR'S FEES.

For the great seal to every grant, not exceeding 1000 acres     0  5  0 For all grants exceeding
1000 acres, for every 1000 each grant contains                                            
0  2  6 For a license of occupation                                     0  5  0

Secretary's Fees.

For every grant, and passing the seal of the province, if under 100 acres                 
0  5  0 Between 100 and 500 acres                                       0 10  0 All above 
0 15  0 In grants of land, where the number of proprietors shall exceed 20, each right    
0  2  6 In ditto, where the number of proprietors shall not exceed 20--the same as for grants
in proportion to the quantity of land For license of occupation of land                   
0  2  6 For every grant of land from 1000 to 20,000 acres, take for the first 1000 acres 15s.
and for every 1000 acres more, 2s. 6d.

Fees to be taken by the Surveyor General of Lands.

For each grant, not exceeding 40 acres                          0  7  6 Ditto             
90 ditto                          0 10  0 Ditto                        190 ditto          
0 15  0 Ditto                        250 ditto                          1  0  0 Ditto     
350 ditto                          1 10  0 Ditto                        400 ditto         
2  0  0 Ditto                        750 ditto                          2 12  6 Ditto     
1000 ditto                          3  5  0 Ditto, on town leases, per foot on street front
0  0  1 And on all grants exceeding 1000 acres for each 100 acres so exceeding            
0  4  0

Auditor's Fees.

For the auditing of every grant                                 0  3  4

Registrar's Fees.

For recording a grant of land, for or under 500 acres           0  1  3 For ditto from 500
to 1000 acres                                0  2  6 For every 100 acres to the amount of 20,000
0 10  6 For recording a grant of a township                             1  0  0

To be received in the Secretary's Office.

On all colonial appointments, and commissions of whatever kind, where the official seal is
affixed                              5  5  0 On all special licenses for marriages        
4  4  0 On the registering of vessels exceeding 40 tons per ton;        0  1  0 And to the
Principal Clerk                                      0 10  0 For all vessels not exceeding
40 ton's                          2  0  0 And to the Principal Clerk                      
0 10  0 On affixing official seal to the clearances of vessels of foreign voyages, or fishing,
per ton                            0  0  6 For every person leaving the colony, whereof ls.
goes to the Principal Clerk                                             0  2  6 Transcripts
of all papers, per folio of 72 words ls. and transcribing Clerk, per ditto, 3d.           
0  1  3 Licenses for colonial vessels coastwise to the Coal River, Hawkesbury, or elsewhere,
not extending to Van Diemen's Land or Bass's Straits, as heretofore to Coal River         
0  5  0

Fees to the Principal Clerk

On free or conditional pardons, each                            0  5  6 Certificates and tickets
of leave, each                         0  2  8 N. B.--Six-pence of the free and conditional
pardons, and two-pence on certificates and tickets of leave, are to be paid to the Government
Printer, as a remuneration for the paper and printing.

On receiving Appeals. On every gallon of spirits landed                               0 10
0 Ditto wine ditto                                                0  0  9 n every pound of
tobacco                                        0  0  6 Wharfage on each bale, cask, or package
0  0  6 The Naval Office to receive 5 per cent. on all duties collected at this port.

Wharfinger's Fees.

On each bale, cask, or package, landed or shipped               0  0  3 Metage per ton on coals
0  2  6 Measure of timber, per 1000 feet                                0  2  0

The following duties to be levied and collected by the Naval Officer on the articles hereunder
named, upon their arrival and landing, whether for colonial consumption or re-shipment.

From every debtor on his discharge from each action             1  0  0 From every sailor confined
for being disorderly, for the first night thereof                                         
0  2  6 For every following night                                       0  1  0 From every
free person thereof, and person having a ticket of leave, taken up and confined for being disorderly,
on the discharge of the same, each                                     0  3  0

From every person receiving a certificate of his or her term of transportation being expired
(reference being always had to the black book in his possession)                          
0  0  6

Fees to be received by the Chief Constable

On the apprehending and lodging in gaol any sailor who may be found riotous or disorderly,
of constables assisting in the apprehension                                               
0  2  6 For each night that sailors so apprehended may be confined; which is to be directed
as the foregoing                        0  2  6 For the apprehending of deserters or runaway
sailors, to be divided equally among apprehending constables and himself       2  0  0 For
serving summonses from the Judge Advocate's Office, for debts under 40s. each summons     
0  1  0 For the seizure of stills, or other articles prohibited by the Colonial Regulations,
and ordered for distribution among the seizing Constables, the Chief Constable is to receive
an equal proportion with them.

Surplice Fees.

Marriages by License, Clergyman                                 3  3  0
   Clerk                                                        0 10  6
   Sexton                                                       0  5  0
Ditto by Banns, free persons Clergyman                          0 10  6
Clerk banns                                                     0  2  0
Clerk marriage                                                  0  3  0
Sexton marriage                                                 0 10  6
Christenings, for registering Clerk                             0  1  0
Churching, free persons only Clergyman                          0  1  0
   Clerk                                                        0  0  6
   Sexton                                                       0  0  6
Funerals, free persons--Clergyman                               0  3  0
   Clerk                                                        0  1  0
   Bell                                                         0  0  6
   Grave digger                                                 0  2  6

Post Office Charges

Every letter, English or Foreign                                0  0  8 Every parcel not exceeding
20lbs.                               0  1  6 Every ditto if exceeding 20lbs.              
0  3  0 Every colonial letter from any part of the territory            0  0  4 Soldiers' letters,
or those addressed to their wives            0  0  1

Market Duties at Sydney.--Grain, etc. lodged in the store to be paid for as follows; viz. wheat
or barley 3d. per bushel; maize or oats 2d. per ditto; potatoes 3d. per cwt. and if not sold
the same day shall pay store-room rent every succeeding market day the articles continue there,
to the clerk, who is not to deliver up such articles until the same be paid.

Market and Fair Duties at Parramatta.

For each horse, mare, gelding, or foal, if sold              0  1  6 Ditto ditto, ditto, if
not sold                                 0  0  6 For each bull, cow, ox, or calf, if sold 
0  1  0 Ditto ditto, ditto, if not sold                                 0  0  4 Sheep, lambs,
or pigs, per score, if sold                       0  2  0 Ditto, ditto, ditto, if not sold
0  0  8 And any number of sheep, lambs, or pigs, under a score, for each sold             
0  0  1½ Ditto, ditto, ditto, if not sold                                0  0  0½

Ferry across the River Hawkesbury, called Nowland's Ferry:

Tolls for each foot passenger                                   0  0  3 A saddle horse    
0  1  6 A foal                                                          0  0  6 A horse and
chaise                                              0  2  6 A cart with 1 horse or two bullocks
0  2  6 A ditto with 2 horses or 3 bullocks                             0  3  0 A waggon with
4 horses or 6 bullocks                            0  4  0 For horned cattle 1s. per head For
do. if more than 1, and not exceeding 20, 9d. per ditto For ditto, if upwards of twenty, 6d.
per ditto For sheep 2s. per score, or 7s. 6d. per hundred For hogs and goats 2d. each, or 2s.
per score Passengers to pass and repass the same day for one payment.

Toll Gates between Sydney and Parramatta:

For each head of horned cattle                                  0  0  2 For each score of sheep
or swine                                0  0 10 For every single horse                    
0  0  3 For every cart drawn by a single horse or bullock               0  0  4 For every cart
drawn by 2 horses or bullocks                    0  0  6 For every cart drawn by 3 horses or
bullocks                    0  0  9 For every cart drawn by 4 horses or bullocks          
0  0 10 For every waggon drawn by 2 horses or bullocks                  0  0 10 For every waggon
drawn by 3 horses or bullocks                  0  1  0 For every waggon drawn by 4 horses or
bullocks, or more         0  1  2 For every single horse chaise                           
0  1  0 For every curricle with two horses                              0  1  6 For a four-wheel
carriage drawn by 2 horses                     0  2  0 For the same drawn by three horses 
0  2  6 For the same drawn by four horses                               0  3  0

N. B. The tolls between Parramatta and Windsor are exactly the same as those between Sydney
and Parramatta, only at the former a cart drawn by 4 horses or bullocks is 10d.

Tolls at the New Bridge over the South Creek at Windsor, called Howe Bridge.

For each foot passenger                                         0  0  2 Ditto ditto single
horse                                        0  0  6 Ditto ditto ditto, or bullock in draft
0  1  0 A cart, with 2 horses or bullocks                               0  1  2 For each horse
or bullock above that number                     0  0  2 Waggons, or four wheeled carriages
with two horses or bullocks  0  1  6 For each head of cattle not in draft, under a score  
0  0  6 For every score                                                 0  5  0 Ditto ditto
per hundred                                         1  0  0 Ditto ditto sheep, goat, or pig,
under a score                  0  0  1 Ditto ditto a score                                
0  1  0

The Governor and Family, the Lieutenant Governor, and all persons on public duty to pass free.

Tolls to be taken at the Ferry across the River Hawkesbury.

(This is Mr. Howe's Ferry).

Tolls to be taken at the Bridge over the Chain of Ponds, near Windsor.

For a single horse                                              0  0  3 A cart and horse, or
two bullocks                               0  0  6 Ditto with more than two               
0  0  9 A waggon with 3 horses or 4 bullocks                            0  1  0 Ditto with
more                                                 0  1  3 A single horse chaise        
0  1  0 A four-wheel carriage                                           0  1  6 Horned cattle,
each                                             0  0  2 Sheep and pigs, per score        
0  1  0

The Colonial Garden.

Potatoes.

For a general winter crop in field or garden, should be planted from the end of January to
the end of February, or even the beginning of March, rather than lose the planting; and they
will come into use in winter, when cabbages and other vegetables run to seed. The ground should
if possible be prepared a month before the planting, and a preference given by the country
gardener to new ground, or dry wheat stubble, where the soil is light. The town gardener should
keep his ground in a good state by frequent light manuring.

The sets made choice of should be the produce of the last winter crop; and when planted should
have a covering of light manure; without which the ground will be impoverished; but with such
assistance be improved.

The best potatoes to preserve for sets are of a middle size, as well for profit as security;
for if the largest are made use of, there must be a considerable waste; and those of the dwarf
kind should be rejected, from their degeneracy and weakness.

An experienced gardener, who has been a settler here more than twenty years, plants his seed
potatoes uncut for the winter crop; his reason for which is, that if they are cut they are
likely to perish in the ground, from the rains of March; which will not be the case if put
in whole.

In July the ground should be prepared for the summer crop, at which time the winter crop will
be fit for digging; in which process every care should be taken to prevent their being bruised;
and if possible they should be dug in cloudy weather, to avoid exposure to the sun, which would
rot them; whereas if carefully preserved they will keep sound for a length of time; which will
be the more desirable, as at this season vegetables are mostly scarce and dear.

In August the planting should be made, or even in September, if necessary; and at the end of
the latter, or in October, they will require to be hilled and earthed, and well cleansed from
weeds, which must also now and then be done as weeds make their appearance. In the choice of
seed for this crop, a middle sized potatoe should be preferred, without any objection to their
being cut, as is the customary mode of planting.

Manure.--Fresh stable dung, and litter, or decayed thatch, answers better for manure than that
which is very rotten; but if the ground be fresh and light, they will want no manure, and the
potatoes be of a better quality, though probably less plentiful.

In October you may also plant potatoes for a latter crop; and this, though perhaps less abundant
than that sown in August or the beginning of September, will nevertheless be sufficiently productive
to pay well the expence and labour of planting.

The potatoe is so essential and desirable an article of food, that too much care cannot be
bestowed in their culture and preservation; for should other crops fall short, this will afford
the grower a certain means of supporting his family.

Carrots and Parsnips

For a general crop, may be best sown in December and January. The ground should be dug deep,
and broke up very fine. If the soil be light, the seed should be sown on a calm day, and trod in.

Carrots and Parsnips may also be planted in July, and also in November. They thrive best in
an open situation, or a light sandy soil; and after they come up, should be thinned and set
out with a small two inch garden hoe.

Cabbages

For a constant supply may be sown in January, April, May, July, August, October, and early
in November, at a time when the ground is in a moist state. The plants sown in April will not
run to seed. Care should be taken to set out the plants in a richer and stronger ground than
the bed they are taken from; otherwise the crop will be poor. Their first bed should now and
then be weeded with the hand, in dry weather, and the freshest and strongest plants removed
first. In setting them out, a passage should be allowed between the rows of at least two feet,
and in the rows the plants kept eighteen or twenty inches distant from each other, which will
allow them a free circulation of air. As they grow up, they should occasionally be earthed
up a little, and carefully weeded, as nothing has a more negligent and slovenly appearance
than a foul bed of cabbage. In very dry hot weather, their first bed should be watered now
and then; after rain they should be set out, but not during its continuance, as it would wash
the mould from the roots, and numbers decay without taking root at all in the new bed. Cabbages
run to seed in August and September.

A gardener of long experience in the Colony has favored us with the following remarks on the
culture of the cabbage: "Although cabbage seed may be here sown with advantage at several times
of the year, yet I have of late years confined myself to two sowings only; namely, in January,
and as near the middle of May as I could find the weather most favorable, for two general crops.
That sown in January comes well in for a winter supply; but must be taken great care of, or
will come to nothing; for as January is one of our hottest months, they will require to be
shaded from the sun's excessive heat by boughs, which if closely twined together will continue
their shelter even after the leaves are withered; and also, to be watered at least once in
every two or three days, until they get pretty strong in the ground. The other crop, sown in
May, will come into use early in summer; and do not require any care more than they usually
receive."

Turnips

The ground should be prepared in February; and at the latter end of the month some may be planted;
for which purpose gentle showery weather is most favourable.

Turnips for a general crop should be sown early in March, and they will be ready for food for
sheep in the beginning of May. During their growth they require hoeing once or twice, to thin
and keep them clean, if the land be foul.

Turnips for table use may be sown at any time between March and September, or the beginning
of November, when absolutely necessary.

Turnips for Sheep.--The ground should be prepared in January and February, by the plough or
hoe, harrowing, manuring, and totally cleansing it from all weeds whatever, so that it be brought
into the best state possible.

The Seed.--To raise turnip seed properly is an object worthy of the strictest attention. To
do this, the bed should be examined carefully when the turnips have attained about a third
of their size, and the largest, smoothest, and most healthy taken up and transplanted into
a richer bed, in rows a foot wide, and about six inches between the plants that are in the
same row.--The seed will be fit to cut the latter end of November.

Cauliflower.

The seed may be sown at any time between November and February; but best in December. Some
sow about the middle of May for a summer crop, and this practice is found to answer.

Asparagus.

The seed should be sown in October, in drills, four drills in a bed four feet wide, the ground
being first well prepared, and richly manured. At the latter end of April, or beginning of
May, the haulm should be cut down within two inches of the bed (though some cut it nearly level),
and constantly kept from weeds. The ground should be dug with a three pronged fork, and not
with a spade, as the latter will cut the crown of the roots, and destroy the plants. A professed
gardener of twenty-three years practice in the colony assures us, that he has now a bed of
twenty years standing, which constantly yielded a good crop until the year before last, the
failure of which he attributed to the ground being worn out, and therefore set out a fresh
bed. In this country it requires a cool soil, and that the beds should not be laid too high,
four or five inches being a sufficient height.

Onions.

In March prepare the ground, by breaking it up well, and richly manuring it. At the end of
the month, and beginning of April, sow for a light crop of onions for immediate use.

In April prepare for a general crop, which should be sown at the latter end of the month, or
beginning of May, to keep them from going to seed. When they grow to a proper size, which will
be from the latter end of October to the beginning of November, they should be carefully laid
down, so as not to break the tops; for should the tops be broke, and the wet penetrate, the
onions will inevitably spoil. When fit to draw, they should be gathered on a fine dry day,
and lain under cover, so as not to be at all exposed to the sun.

Pease and Beans of all kinds.

The ground should be prepared in March, by well working and manuring; and at the end of the
month, and in April, they may be sown for a spring crop. Some sow from the beginning of March
till the middle of June, as occasion may require.

Prepare in August for a latter crop; and

French beans may be as well sown in October as at any other time.

Cucumbers, Pumpkins, and Melons.

The ground should be got ready for these in August, and they should be sown in September.

Radishes.

May be sown when turnips are sown.

Lettuces and Small Sallad

Are sown every month, for a constant supply; but lettuces are best sown in April and November,
and small sallads in May, and the latter end of November.

Grass and Clover.

Turnip ground, on which either is intended to be sown, should be cleared, cleaned, and broke
up in August, great care being taken to leave no weeds or large clods.

Spinage

Is best sown in March and September.

Brocoli, brown and white

Should be sown the beginning of January, and treated as cabbage sown at that time. Some observe
the practice of sowing from November until February, but this is a vague method, and not to
be depended on.

Strawberries.

March is the proper season for planting this fruit. The runners and leaves should be all cut
close away before they are set, which will strengthen them greatly, and before winter they
will have new leaves. If planted in clumps, the fruit will be larger than if suffered to run
over the bed; but by the latter method they preserve a more delicate appearance, and are certainly
less likely to contract filth.

As soon as planted, a sprinkling of fresh earth should be thrown over the beds, which should
be plentifully watered twice or thrice a week, if the season turn out dry; and as the plants
require much air, they should be thinned, in order to preserve a free circulation.

When sown in beds, the following mode of treatment should be observed:--When the bed is well
prepared, plant the rows of the large kinds, such as the Chili and Carolina, two feet apart,
and allow one foot between each of the plants in the same row. The smaller kinds do not require
so much space; eighteen inches between the rows, and eighteen between the plants will be sufficient;
but as much greater space may be given as the ground will admit of.

In April all strawberry beds should be well dressed and cleaned, in order to prevent the lodging
of insects; and in July they should be gone well over, and have their spring dressing; in doing
which the runners must be taken off from the plants, and the weeds cleared away. The ground
will then also require to be loosened, and would be much benefited by a layer of fine manure
and fresh earth between the rows, as this treatment will strengthen the plants, and produce
the largest and finest fruit.

Raspberries

Should also be dressed and cleaned in July.

Grapes.

Begin in April to pinch and prune the vines, which must be cleaned from all cankered and unhealthy
leaves or other substances, to preserve them from insects. In July they should also be gone
over, and pruned and nailed, where requisite. All walls and stakes should then be attentively
examined, to prevent the harbouring of insects, which will otherwise destroy the young wood
and fruit.

Pine Apples.

In the management of Pinery, should gentlemen incline their attention thitherward, the following
observances will be useful. In May let them be unplunged, and lain down on their sides, till
all their leaves be free from water. Take off all yellow leaves, and suckers, and let these
suckers be plunged into fresh pots of earth, and in a fresh bed of heat, by means whereof the
Pinery will always be kept full. The spider is their chief enemy, and therefore should not
be permitted to harbour near them, as the smallest of the tribe will kill the crown, and destroy
the fruit.

Trees of all Kinds

In JANUARY and FEBRUARY should be BUDDED. A competent judge will best inform himself of the
proper time for this operation by the ripe appearance of the buds themselves. For this use
the practical gardener chooses a small instrument which may be made of bone, with wrappers
of worsted, which being elastic, is better than bark, or any other substitute. The tops of
the budded stocks are by some left uncut until the August or September following; but a gardener
of much experience in the Colony makes it a rule to cut his tops off immediately, as the buds
strike much sooner with this practice.

PEACHES and PLUMS are best budded upon their own stocks.

APRICOTS may be budded upon peach stocks.

The ENGLISH MULBERRY upon the cherry; or Cape; and ORANGES will succeed best upon lemons; and
all tender trees are better to be budded in summer than in spring.

It may be here proper to observe, for the better information of those who have not given themselves
the trouble of dividing the year into seasons, and which it would indeed be difficult to do
by a comparison with those to which in Europe we were accustomed, that the spring months are,
September, October, and November; the summer months, December, January, and February; the autumn
months, March, April, and May; and the winter months, June, July, and August. Hence it is observable,
that our wheat harvesting begins in the last of the spring months, November, and is entirely
over before the end of summer.

In March, all fruit trees should be examined, and the broken or decayed limbs taken off.

In May, all fruit trees should be pruned, except evergreens, and such branches as are necessary
to be taken off cut close to the tree, that the wound may heal the sooner, and thus prevent
the tree from injury by rain or dew.

In May, orange trees may be safely transplanted, as well as in

June; which is the general season for transplanting fruit trees: in doing which, the roots
should be carefully taken up, and planted as near to the surface as possible, taking care at
the same time that the whole be covered, being first spread out like an open hand; after which
the covering may be thickened with a little rich manure; and when the hole is filled, the earth
about the root should be trodden gently, so as to fix the position of the plant.

June is also the best time for making layers, and planting cuttings from hardy trees.

In July, such fruit trees as were not transplanted in June should be removed, and stocks to
bud and graft upon transplanted.

In August, evergreens may be transplanted, in which great care must be observed, as they are
very tender; and as their roots will not bear exposure to the sun, they must be so carefully
dug round as to admit their being taken up with as large a ball of earth clinging to the root
as can be done, in which exact state they always should be fresh planted.

In August, also, the nursery will require to be well gone over and cleaned, and young trees
prepared for grafting. Wall fruit and shrubs must be now particularly attended to, in divesting
them of every foul or decayed substance.

In this month, also, all gardens should be cleaned and dressed. The gardener ought to be particularly
attentive in keeping off weeds and insects, as grubs frequently make their appearance at this
time, which very much injure all vegetable productions.

This month also the nursery wants cleaning, and the young trees must be prepared for grafting:
the weeds preparatory to which, must be cut down and destroyed, or they will afterwards give
much trouble. Decayed branches should likewise be taken from fruit trees; and such trees as
appear stunted should have the ground opened about the roots.

SEPTEMBER is a good month for grafting fruit trees, the scions intended for grafts being cut
off a fortnight or three weeks before, and the ends which are cut stuck in the ground until
wanted for use.

Trees budded at the beginning of the year must now be cut down within about two inches of the
bud; this space above the bud being left to tie the young shoots to, to prevent their being
broken off by the wind. No shoots should be suffered to grow but the eye that was budded, and
all others should be rubbed off as soon as they appear.

OCTOBER.--Young trees that were grafted in September should now be examined, and all the young
shoots broken off, but one or two, both from the grafts and stocks:--The clay must be taken
off, and the bandages loosened. The ground between the rows of all young trees should also
be kept clear of weeds, or they will deprive the trees of a great part of their nourishment.

Apricot and peach trees should be examined this month, and where the fruit appears to be set
too thick, which will be mostly the case in prolific seasons, they must be reduced to a moderate
quantity. This must nevertheless be done with care, and only such of the fruit as is proper
to remain left upon the tree.

In this month the garden should be cleaned all through, and walls and fruit trees well examined,
to prevent insects from lodging.

In NOVEMBER such trees as were inoculated the previous summer will want the young shoots tying,
either to the top of the stock, or to have a stake driven in near them to tie the shoot to,
that they may not be broken off by the wind. All budded and grafted trees will in November
want constant attention. All shoots that do not grow from the eye of the bud, or from the graft,
must be taken off, that the graft or bud may receive all the nourishment the stock can afford.

In November evergreens may be propagated by layers, from the young shoots of the summer's growth.

In December the same observance is to be attended to with respect to evergreens; and peach
trees should now be thinned of their fruit, where it appears too thick.

Observations on some particular Fruit Trees.

The Orange.

In pruning, the knife should be as little used as possible, if you wish them to bear. The southerly
winds are very unfavorable to their growth, and parts opened by the knife admit the air, and
kill the bloom. This tree is perhaps more infested by ants than any other; and the black contracted
appearance of the leaves is much attributed to this insect. From this persuasion, which is
pretty general, various methods have been tried to keep them off. Human ordure laid round the
boll of the tree will prevent their appearing so long as it retains moisture, but not longer;
tar has been applied round both the trunk and branches, and only answered while moist; yet
a cure, if the ant be really inimical, is certain to be found, with little trouble, and without
expence, in common suds from a wash tub, in which ley has been used. This wash should be laid
well about the roots in the evening, when the ants have left the tree, which will be mostly
the case, and in wet weather always so, and there need be little apprehension of their return
next morning; a woollen bandage, dipped in oil, will also be found a preventative to their
ascending the tree. This application, whenever ants appear, will have the desired effect; but
whether these insects are injurious to the tree or not, is to be doubted upon this principle,
namely, that the ant, being excessively carnivorous, is instinctively led to the orange tree
in quest of the eggs, exuviae, larvae, etc. of some very minute insect, whose eggs are attached
to the leaves by a glutinous substance, emitted by themselves in such quantity as to discolour
the leaf, the pores of which being thus stopped, it becomes hard and tusky, and gradually closes.
It seems impossible that this change should be produced by the ant: for if it even attacked
or destroyed the blossom, this would not affect the leaves when the tree is not in bloom; and
therefore it is rational to conclude that their changed appearance proceeds from some other
cause, perhaps from some other insect, perhaps from the assaults of the weather, or some peculiarity
in its soil or situation, or from a combination of these and other causes; in exemplification
whereof it is worthy to be remarked, that a gardener in the Brickfields planted a number of
seed sixteen years ago, all from the same tree; of which forty-four came up, and were all treated
with equal care. None shewed fruit until about seven years since; when one produced about two-hundred
oranges, and four or five others had from thirty down to ten or a dozen each. The following
year the same trees were full; and afterwards others began to bear. This very great disparity
in their time of bearing, keeping in mind at the same time that the seeds were from the same
tree, all sown at once, and all equally well attended to, would be sufficient to excite astonishment,
were we not to make allowance for the various causes that might have tended to accelerate or
retard their growth.

The gardener himself says, that the chief of the defaulters were a good deal shaded from the
sun by a range of peach trees, which depriving them of a great proportion of the warmth necessary
to a fruit which thrives best in the hottest climates, he considers sufficient to occasion
all the difference spoken of.

The Apple

