SET IN SILVER

I

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER AT CHAMPEL-LES-BAINS, SWITZERLAND

Rue Chapeau de Marie Antoinette, Versailles, July 4th

Darling Little French Mother: Things have happened. Fire-crackers! Roman candles! rockets!
But don't be frightened. They're all in my head. Nevertheless I haven't had such a Fourth of
July since I was a small girl in America, and stood on a tin pail with a whole pack of fire-crackers
popping away underneath.

Isn't it funny, when you have a lot to tell, it's not half as easy to write a letter as when
you've nothing at all to say, and must make up for lack of matter by weaving phrases? Now,
when I'm suffering from a determination of too many words to my pen, they all run together
in a torrent, and I don't know how to make them dribble singly to a beginning.

I think I'll talk about other things first. That's the way dear Dad used to do when he had
exciting news, and loved to dangle it over our heads, "cherry ripe" fashion, harping on the
weather or the state of the stock-market until he had us almost dancing with impatience.

Yes, I'll dwell on other things first--but not irrelevant things, for I'll dwell on You--with
a capital Y, which is the only proper way to spell You--and You are never irrelevant. You couldn't
be, whatever was happening. And just now you're particularly relevant, though you're far off
in nice, cool Switzerland; for presently, when I come to the Thing, I'm going to ask your advice.

It's very convenient having a French mother, and I do appreciate dear Dad's Yankee cleverness
in securing you in the family. You say sometimes that I seem all American, and that you're
glad; which is pretty of you, and loyal to father's country, but I'm not sure whether I shouldn't
have preferred to turn out more like my mamma. You're so complete, somehow--as Frenchwomen
are, at their best. I often think of you as a kind of pocket combination of Somebody's Hundred
Best Books: Romance, Practical Common Sense, Poetry, Wit, Wisdom, Fancy Cookery, etc., etc.

Who but a Frenchwoman could combine all these qualities with the latest thing in hair-dressing
and the neatest thing in stays? By the way, can one's stays be a quality? Yes, if one's French--even
half French--I believe they can.

If I hadn't just got your letter of day before yesterday, assuring me that you feel strong
and fresh--almost as if you'd never been ill--I shouldn't worry you for advice. Only a few
weeks ago, if suddenly called upon for it, you'd have shown signs of nervous prostration. I
shall never forget my horror when you (quite uncontrollably) threw a spoon at Philomene who
came to ask whether we would have soup à croute or potage à la bonne femme for dinner!

Switzerland was an inspiration; mine, I flatter myself. And if, in telling me that you're in
robust health again, you're hinting at an intention to sneak back to blazing Paris before the
middle of September, you don't know your Spartan daughter. All that's American in me rises
to shout "No!" And you needn't think that your child is bored. She may be boiled, but never
bored. Far from it, as you shall hear.

School breaks up to-morrow--breaks into little blond and brunette bits, which will blow or
drift off to their respective homes; and I should by this time be packing to visit the Despards,
where I'm supposed to teach Mimi's young voice to soar, as compensation for holiday hospitality;
but--I'm not packing, because Ellaline Lethbridge has had an attack of nerves.

You won't be surprised that I stopped two hours over-time to-day to hold the hand and to stroke
the hair of Ellaline. I've done that before, when she had a pain in her finger, or a cold in
her little nose, and sent you a petit bleu to announce that I couldn't get home for dinner
and our happy hour together. No, you won't be surprised at my stopping--or that Ellaline should
have an attack of nerves. But the reason for the attack and the cure she wants me to give her:
these will surprise you.

Why, it's almost as hard to begin, after all, as if I hadn't been working industriously up
to it for three pages. But here goes!

Dearest, you've often said, and I've agreed with you (or else it was the other way round),
that nothing I could ever do for Ellaline Lethbridge would be too much; that she couldn't ask
any sacrifice of me which would be too great. Of course, one does say these things until one
is tested. But--I wonder if there is a "but"?

Of course you believe that your one chick has a glorious voice, and that it's a cruel shame
she should be doing nothing better than teaching other people's chicks to squall, whether their
voices are worth squalling with or not. Perhaps, though, mine mayn't be as remarkable an organ
as we think; and even if you hadn't made me give up trying for light opera, because I received
one Insult (with a capital I) while I was Madame Larese's favourite pupil, I mightn't in any
case have turned into a great prima donna. I was rather excited and amused by the Insult myself--it
made me feel so interesting, and so like a heroine of romance; but you didn't approve of it;
and we had some hard times, hadn't we, after all our money was spent in globe-trotting, and
lessons for me from the immortal Larese?

If it hadn't been for meeting Ellaline, and Ellaline falling a victim to my modest charms,
and insisting upon Madame de Maluet's taking me as a teacher of singing for her "celebrated
finishing school for Young Ladies," what would have become of us, dearest, with you so delicate,
me so young, and both of us so poor and alone in a big world? I really don't know, and you've
often said you didn't.

Of course, if it hadn't been for Ellaline--Madame's richest and most important girl--persisting
as she did, in her imperious, spoiled-child way, Madame wouldn't have dreamed of engaging a
young girl like me, without any experience as a teacher, no matter how much she liked my voice
and my (or rather Larese's) method. I suppose no one would else have risked me; so I certainly
do owe to Ellaline, and nobody but Ellaline, three happy and (fairly) prosperous years. To
be sure, because of my position at Madame de Maluet's, I have got a few outside pupils; but
that's indirectly through Ellaline, too, isn't it?

I'm reminding you of all these things so that you may have it clearly before your mind just
how much we do owe Ellaline, and judge whether the payment she now asks is too big or not.

That's the way she puts it, not coarsely or crudely; but I know how she feels.

She sent me a little note yesterday, while I was giving a lesson, to say she'd a horrid headache,
had gone to bed, and would I come to her room as soon as I could. Well, I went at lunch time,
for I hated to keep her waiting, and thought I could eat later. As it turned out, I didn't
eat at all. But that's a detail.

She had on a perfectly divine nighty, with low neck and short sleeves (no girl would be allowed
to wear such a thing in any but a French school, I'm sure, even if she were a "parlour boarder")
and her hair was in curly waves over her shoulders. Altogether she looked adorable, and about
fourteen years old, instead of nearly nineteen, as she is.

"You don't show your headache a bit," said I.

"I haven't got one," said she.

Then she explained that she'd been dying for a chance to talk with me alone, and the headache
was the only thing that occurred to her in the circumstances. She doesn't mind little fibs,
you know. Indeed, I believe she rather likes them, because any "intrigue," even the smallest,
is exciting to her.

You would never guess anything like what has happened.

That dragon of a guardian of hers is coming back at last from Bengal, where he's been governor
or something. Not that his coming would matter particularly if it weren't for complications,
but there are several, the most formidable of which is a Young Man.

The Young Man is a French young man, and his name is Honoré du Guesclin. He is a lieutenant
in the army (Ellaline mentioned the regiment with pride, but I've forgotten it already, there
was so much else to remember), and she says he is descended from the great Du Guesclin. She
met him at Madame de Blanchemain's--you remember the Madame de Blanchemain who was Ellaline's
dead mother's most intimate friend, and who lives at St. Cloud? Ellaline has spent all her
holidays there ever since I've known her; but though I thought she told me everything (she
always vowed she did), not a word did she ever breathe about a young man having risen over
her horizon. She says she didn't dare, because I'm so "queer and prim about some things." I'm
not, am I? But now she's driven to confess, as she's in the most awful scrape, and doesn't
know what will become of her and "darling Honoré," unless I'll consent to help them.

She met him only last Easter. He's a nephew of Madame de Blanchemain's, it seems; and on coming
back from foreign service in Algeria, or somewhere, he dutifully paused to visit his relative.
Of course it occurs to me, did Madame de Blanchemain write and intimate that she would have
in the house a pretty little Anglo-French heiress, with no inconvenient relatives, unless one
counts the Dragon? But Ellaline says Honoré's coming was quite a surprise to his aunt. Anyway,
he proposed on the third day, and Ellaline accepted him. It was by moonlight, in a garden,
so who can blame the poor child? I always thought if even a moderately good-looking young man
proposed to me by moonlight, in a garden, I would say "Yes--yes!" at once, even if I changed
my mind next day.

But Honoré is very good looking (she has his picture in a locket, with such a turned-up moustache--I
mean Honoré, not the locket), and so Ellaline didn't change her mind next day.

Not a word was said to Madame de Blanchemain (as far as Ellaline knows), for they decided that,
considering everything, they must keep their secret, and eventually run away to be married;
because Honoré is poor, and Ellaline's an heiress guarded by a Dragon.

Well, through letters which E. has been receiving at a teashop where she and the other older
girls go, rigorously chaperoned, twice a week, it was arranged to do the deed as soon as school
should close; and if they could have carried out their plan, Ellaline would have been Madame
du Guesclin before the Dragon could have appeared on the scene, breathing fire and rattling
his scales. They were going to Scotland to be married (Honoré's idea), as a man can't legally
marry a girl under age in France without the consent of everybody concerned. Once she'd got
away with him, and had had any kind of hole-in-the-corner wedding, Honoré was of opinion that
even the most abandoned Dragon would be thankful to sanction a marriage according to French
law; so it could all be done over again properly in France.

I suppose this appealed immensely to Ellaline's love of intrigue and kittenish tricksiness
generally. Anyway, she agreed; but young officers propose, and their superiors dispose. Honoré
was ordered off for a month's manoeuvres before he could even ask for leave; and as he's known
to be destitute of near relatives, he couldn't rake up a perishing grandmother as an excuse.

What he did try, I don't know; but anyhow, he failed, and the running away had to be put off.
That was blow number one, and could have been borne, without blow number two, which fell in
the shape of a letter. It said that the wicked guardian was just about to start for home, and
intended to pick up Ellaline on his way to England, as if she were a parcel labelled "to be
kept till called for."

She's certain he won't let her marry Honoré if he has the chance to say "no" beforehand, because
he cares nothing about her happiness, or about her, or anything else except his own selfish
ambitions. Of course, Ellaline is a girl who takes strong prejudices against people for no
particular reason, except that she has a "feeling they are horrid"; but she does appear to
be right about this man. He's English, and though Ellaline's mother was half French, they were
cousins, and I believe her dying request was that he should take care of her daughter and her
daughter's money. You would have thought that that must have softened even a hard heart, wouldn't
you? But the Dragon's was evidently sentiment-proof, even so many years ago, when he must have
been comparatively young--if Dragons are ever young.

He accepted the charge (Ellaline thinks her money probably influenced him to do that; and perhaps
he was paid for his trouble); but, instead of carrying out his engagements, like a faithful
guardian, he packed the poor four-year-old baby off to some pokey, prim people in the country,
and promptly went abroad to enjoy himself. There Ellaline would no doubt have been left to
this day, dreadfully unhappy and out of her element, for the people were an English curate
and his wife; but, luckily, her mother had stipulated that she was to be sent to the same school
in France where she herself had been educated--Madame de Maluet's.

Never once has her guardian shown the slightest sign of interest in Ellaline: hasn't asked
for her photograph or written her any letters. They've communicated with each other only through
Madame de Maluet, four times a year or so; and Ellaline doesn't feel sure that her fortune
has been properly administered, so she says she ought to marry young and have a husband to
look after her interests.

When I ventured to hope that the Dragon wasn't quite so scaly and taily as she painted him,
she proved her point by telling me that he'd been censured lately in the English Radical papers
for killing a lot of poor, defenceless Bengalese in cold blood. Somebody must have sent her
the cuttings, for Ellaline hardly knows that newspapers exist. I dare say it was Kathy Bennett,
one of Madame's few English pupils. Ellaline has chummed up with her lately. And that news
does seem to settle the man's character, doesn't it? He must be a perfect brute.

Ellaline says that she'd rather die than lose Honoré, also that he'll kill himself if he loses
her. And now, dearest--now for the Thunderbolt! She vows that the only thing which can possibly
save her is for me to take her place for five or six weeks, until her soldier's manoeuvres
are over and he can get leave to whisk her off to Scotland for the wedding.

You're the quickest-witted darling in the world, and you generally know all that people mean
even before they speak. Yet I can see you looking puzzled as well as startled, and muttering
to yourself: "Take Ellaline's place? Where--how--when?"

I was like that myself while she was trying to explain. I stared with an owlish stare for about
five minutes, until her real idea in all its native wildness, not to say enormity, burst upon me.

She wants to go day after to-morrow to Madame de Blanchemain's, as she'd expected to do before
she heard that the Dragon was coming to gobble her up. She wants to stay there quietly until
Honoré can take her, and she wants me to pretend to be Ellaline Lethbridge!

I nearly fell off my chair at this point, but I hope you won't do anything like that--which
is the reason why I've been working up to the revelation with such fiendish subtlety. Have
you noticed it?

Ellaline has plotted the whole scheme out. I shouldn't have thought her capable of it; but
she says it's desperation.

She's certain she can persuade Madame de Maluet to let her leave school, to go to the station
and meet the Dragon (that's the course he himself suggests: too much trouble even to run out
to Versailles and fetch her) with only me as chaperon. I dare say she's right about Madame,
for all the teachers will be gone day after to-morrow, and Madame herself invariably collapses
the moment school breaks up: she seems to break up with it, and to have to lie in bed for at
least half a week to be mended.

Madame has really quite a flattering opinion of my discretion. She's told me so several times.
I suppose it's the way I do my hair for school, which does give me a look of incorruptible
virtue, doesn't it? Fortunately she doesn't know I always change it (if not too tired) ten
minutes after I get home to you.

Well, then, taking Madame's permission for granted, Ellaline points out that all stumbling-blocks
are removed, for she won't count moral ones, or let me count them.

I'm to see her off for St. Cloud, and wait to receive the Dragon. "Sir, behold the burnt-offering--I
mean, behold your ward!"

And I'm to go on being a burnt-offering till it's convenient for the real Ellaline to scrape
my ashes off the smoking altar.

It's all very well to make fun of the thing like that. But to be serious--and goodness knows
it's serious enough--what's to be done, little mother? Ellaline has (because I insisted) given
me till to-morrow morning to answer. I explained that my consent must depend on your consent.
So that's why I haven't had anything to eat since breakfast. I rushed home to write this immense
letter to you, and get it off to catch the post. It will arrive in the morning with your coffee
and petits pains--how I wish I were in its place! You can take half an hour to make up your
mind (I'm sure with your lightning wits you wouldn't ask longer to decide the fate of the Great
Powers of Europe) and then telegraph me simply "Yes," or "No." I will understand.

For my own sake, naturally, I should prefer "No." That goes unsaid, doesn't it? I should then
be relieved of responsibility; for even Ellaline, knowing that you and I are all in all to
each other, could hardly expect me to fly in your face, just to please her. But, on the other
hand, if you did think I could do this dreadful thing without thereby becoming myself a Dreadful
Thing, it would be a glorious relief to pay my debt of gratitude to Ellaline, yes, and even
over-pay it, perhaps. One likes to over-pay a debt that's been owing a long time, for it's
like adding an accumulation of interest that one's creditor never expected to get.

When, gasping after the first shock, I pleaded that I'd do anything else, make any other sacrifice
for Ellaline's sake, except this one, she flashed out (with the odd shrewdness which lurks
in her childishness like a bright little garter-snake darting its head from a bed of violets),
saying that was always the way with people. They were invariably ready to do for their best
friends, to whom they were grateful, anything on earth except the only thing wanted.

Well, I had no answer to make; for it's true, isn't it? And then Ellaline sobbed dreadfully,
clutching at me with little, hot, trembling hands, crying that she'd counted on me, that she'd
been sure, after all my promises, I wouldn't fail her. She'd felt so safe with me! Are you
surprised I hadn't the heart to refuse? I confess, dear, that if I were quite alone in the
world (though the world wouldn't be a world without you) I should certainly have grovelled
and consented then and there.

She says she won't close her eyes to-night, and I dare say she won't, in which case she'll
be as pathetic as a broken flower to-morrow. I don't think I shall sleep much either, wondering
what your verdict will be.

I really haven't the remotest idea whether it will be Yes or No. Usually I imagine that I can
pretty well guess what your opinion is likely to be, but I can't this time. The thing to decide
upon is in itself so fantastic, so monstrous, that one moment I tell myself you won't even
consider it. The next minute I remember what a dear little "crank" you are on the subject of
gratitude--your "favourite virtue," as you used to write in old-fashioned "Confession Albums"
of provincial American friends when I was a child.

If people do anything nice for you, you run your little high-heeled shoes into holes to do
something even nicer for them. If you're invited out to tea, you ask your hostess to lunch
or dinner, in return: that sort of thing invariably; and you've brought me up with the same
bee in my bonnet. So what will your telegram be?

Whatever you say, you may count on a meek "Amen, so be it," from

Your most admiring subject,

Audrie.

P. S.--Of course, it isn't as if this man were an ordinary, nice, inoffensive human man, is
it? I do think that almost any treatment is too good for such a cold-blooded, supercilious
old Dragon. And you needn't reprove me for "calling names." With singular justice Providence
has ticketed him as appropriately as his worst enemy would have dared to do. They have such
weird names in Cornwall, don't they?--and it seems he's a Cornishman. Until lately he was plain
Mister, now he's Sir Lionel Pendragon. Somebody has been weak enough to die and leave him a
title, and also an estate (though not in Cornwall) which he's returning to England in greedy
haste to pounce upon. So characteristic, after living away all these years; though Madame de
Maluet has tried to make Ellaline believe he's coming back to settle down because of a letter
she wrote, reminding him respectfully that after nineteen it's almost indecent for a girl to
be kept at school.

Don't fear, however, if your telegram casts me to the Dragon, that I shall be in danger of
getting eaten up. His Dragonship, among other stodgy defects, has that of eminent, well-nigh
repulsive, respectability. He is as respectable as a ramrod or a poker, and very elderly, Ellaline
says. From the way she talks about him he must be getting on for a hundred, and he is provided
with a widowed sister, a Mrs. Norton, whom he has dug up from some place in the country to
act as chaperon for his ward. All other women he is supposed to detest, and would, if necessary,
beat them off with a stick.

II

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Rue Chapeau de Marie Antoinette, Versailles, July 5th

My Spartan Angel: Now the telegram's come, I feel as if I'd known all along what your decision
would be.

I'm glad you were extravagant enough to add "Writing," for to-morrow morning I shall know by
exactly what mental processes you decided. Also, I'm glad (I think I'm glad) that the word
is "Yes."

It's afternoon now; just twenty-four hours since I sat here in the same place (at your desk
in the front window, of course), trying my best to put the situation before you, as a plain,
unvarnished tale.

I stuck the bit of blue paper under Ellaline's nose, and she almost had a fit with joy. If
she were bigger and more muscular, she'd have kissed and squeezed the breath of life out of
me, which would have been awkward for her, as she'd then have been thrown back upon her own
resources.

Oh, ma petite poupee de Mere, only think of it! I go to-morrow--into space. I disappear. I
cease to exist pro tem. There will be no me, no Audrie, but, instead, two Ellalines. I've often
told her, by the way, that I would make two of her. Evidently I once had a prophetic soul.
I only wish I had it still, so I might see beforehand what will happen to the Me-ness of Ellaline
in the next few weeks. Anyhow, whatever comes, I expect to be supported by the consciousness
that I'm paying a debt of gratitude as perhaps such a debt was never paid before.

Of course I shall have a perfectly horrid time. Not only shall I be wincing under the degrading
knowledge that I'm a base pretender, but I shall be wretchedly homesick and bored within an
inch of my life. I shall be, in the sort of environment Ellaline describes, like a mouse in
a vacuum--a poor, frisky, happy, out-of-doors field-mouse, caught for an experiment. When the
experiment is finished I shall crawl away, a decrepit wreck. But, thank heaven, I can crawl
to You, and you will nurse me back to life. We'll talk everything over, for hours on end, and
I'll be able to abuse the Dragon to my heart's content. I know you'll let me do that, provided
I don't use naughty words, or, if any, disguise them daintily in a whisper.

Ellaline and I have discussed plans and possibilities, and if all goes as she expects (I don't
see why it shouldn't), I ought to be freed from the unpleasant rôle of understudy in five or
six weeks. The instant my chains are broken by a telegram from the bride saying, "Safely married,"
or words to that effect, I shall do "all my possible" to fold, my tent like an Arab and silently
steal--not to say sneak--away from the lair of the Dragon, without his opening a scaly red
eye to the dreadful reality, until I'm beyond his power.

It must be either that or the most awful scene with him--a Regular Row. He, saying what he
thinks of my deception; me, defending myself and the real Ellaline by saying what I think of
his general beastliness. If it came to that, I might in my rage wax unladylike; so perhaps,
of the two evils, the lesser would be the sneak act--n'est ce pas? Well, I shall see when the
time comes.

In five or six weeks I had thought, in any case, of allowing you to leave Champel-les-Bains,
should you grow too restive lacking my society. I thought of proposing by then, if you were
sufficiently braced by Swiss air, milk, and honey and Champel douches, that we should join
forces at a cheap but alluring farmhouse somewhere.

That idea may still fit in rather well, mayn't it? But if, for any unforeseen reason, I should
have to stay sizzling on the sacrificial altar longer than we expect, you mustn't come home
to hot Paris to economize and mope in the flat. You must stop in Switzerland till I can meet
you in some nice place in the country. Promise that you won't add to my burdens by being refractory.

I'll wire you an address as soon as I am blessed--or cursed--with one. And whatever you do,
don't forget that I'm merged in Ellaline Lethbridge. If her identity fits me as badly as her
dresses would do it will come about down to my knees and won't meet round the waist.

As soon as I have your letter to-morrow morning, dearest, I'll write again, if only a few lines.
Then, when I've seen the Dragon and have gained a vague idea how and where he means to dispose
of his prey, I'll scribble off some sort of description of the man and the meeting, even if
it's on board the Channel boat, in the midst of a tossing.

Your

Iphegenia.

(Or would Jephtha's daughter be more appropriate? Early Morning

Dearest Dame Wisdom: You ought to be Adviser-in-Chief to Crowned Heads. You'd be invaluable;
worth any salary. What a shame you aren't widely known: a sort of public possession! But for
my sake I'm glad you aren't, because if you were discovered you'd never have a spare minute
to advise me.

Of course, dear, if you hadn't reached your conclusions just as you did about this step you
wouldn't have counselled, or even allowed, me to take it. And I will remember every word you
say. I'll do exactly as you tell me to do. So now, don't worry, any more than you would if
I were an experienced and accomplished young parachutist about to make a descent from the top
of the Eiffel tower.

It's eight o'clock, and I've satisfied my soul with your letter and my body with its morning
roll and coffee. When I've finished scribbling this in pencil to you, I shall pack, and be
ready--for anything.

By the way, that reminds me. What a tangled web we weave when first we practise to deceive, etc.

Won't the Dragon think it queer that his rich ward should make no better toilettes than I shall
be able to produce--after living at Versailles, practically in Paris, with a huge amount of
spending money--for a schoolgirl?

I thought of that difficulty only last night for the first time, after I was in bed, and was
tempted to jump up and review my wardrobe. But it was unnecessary. Not only could I call to
mind in the most lively way every dress I have, but, I do believe, every dress I ever did have
since my frocks were let down or done over from yours. I suppose that ought to make me feel
rather young, oughtn't it? To remember every dress I ever owned? But it doesn't. I'll be twenty-one
this month, you know--a year older than you were when your ears were gladdened by my first
howl. I'm sure it was unearthly, yet that you said at once to Dad: "The dear child is going
to be musical!"

But to return to the wardrobe of the heiress's understudy. It consists of my every-day tailor-made,
two white linen coats and skirts, a darned collection (I don't mean that profanely) of summer
blouses, and the everlasting, the immortal, black evening dress. Is it three or four years
old? I know it was my first black, and I did feel so proud and grown-up when you said I might
have it.

You'll be asking yourself: "Where is the blue alpaca she bought in the Bon Marché sale, which
was in the act of being made when I left for la Suisse?" Up to now I've concealed from you
the tragical fact that that horrid little Mademoiselle Voisin completely spoiled it. I was
so furious I could have killed her if she'd been on the spot. There is no rage like the dress
rage, is there?

My one hope is that the Dragon may take as little interest in Ellaline's clothes as he has
taken in Ellaline's self, or that, being used to the costumes of the Bengalese, which, perhaps,
are somewhat sketchy, he may be thankful that his ward has any at all.

You see, I can't tell Ellaline about this, because she couldn't help thinking it a hint for
her to supply the deficiency, and I wouldn't let her do that, even for her own credit. Anyhow,
there'd be no time to get things, so I must just do the best I can, and carry off the old gray
serge and sailor hat with a stately air. Heaven gave me five foot seven and a half on purpose
to do it with.

Now I must pack like heat-lightning; and when I've finished I shall send the brown box and
the black Gladstone to the Gare de Lyon, where he will arrive from Marseilles. That is rather
complicated, as of course we must go to the Gare du Nord for Calais or Boulogne; but he mayn't
wish to start at once for England, and in my new character, as his ward, I must be prepared
to obey his orders. I hope he won't treat me as he seems to have treated the Bengalese! The
luggage of Miss Ellaline Lethbridge obviously can't be called for at the flat of Mrs. Brendon
and her daughter Audrie, for there would be questions--and no proper answers. Therefore, when
I present myself at the Gare de Lyon, I intend to be "self-contained." All my worldly goods
will be there, to be disposed of as the Grand Mogul pleases.

When I've packed I shall hie me to Madame de Maluet's, looking as good and meek as a trained
dove, to take charge of Ellaline--and to change into Ellaline.

After that--the Deluge.

Good-bye, darling!

Me, to the Lions!

But I shall have your talisman-letter in my pocket, I can't be eaten, though I do feel rather like

Your

Martyr Child

IV

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

On Board the Boat, half-Channel over, July 6th. Night

Mother Dear: The dragon-ness doesn't show at all on the outside.

I expected to meet a creature of almost heraldic grimness--rampant, disregardant, gules. What
I did meet--but I'm afraid that isn't the right way to begin. Please consider that I haven't
begun. I'll go back to the time when Ellaline and her chaperon (me) started away from school
together in a discreet and very hot cab with her trunks.

She was jumpy and on edge with excitement, and got on my nerves so that it was the greatest
relief when I'd seen her off in her train for St. Cloud. Just at this point I find another
break in my narrative, made by a silly, not at all interesting, adventure.

I'd been waving my hand for the twenty-fifth time to Ellaline, in response to the same number
of waves from her. When at last she drew in her head, as the train steamed away, I turned round
in a hurry lest she should pop it out again, and bumped into a man, or what will be a man in
a few years if it lives. I said, "Pardon, monsieur," as gravely as if it were a man already,
and it said in French made in England that 'twas entirely its fault. It was such a young youth,
and looked so utterly English, that I smiled a motherly smile, and breathed, "Not at all,"
as I passed on, fondly thinking to pass forever out of its life at the same time. But, dearest,
the absurd little thing didn't recognize the smile as motherly. Perhaps it never had a mother.
I had hardly observed it as an individual, I assure you, except as one's sub-conscious self
takes notes without permission from headquarters. I was vaguely aware that the creature with
whom I had collided was quite nice-looking, though bullet-headed, freckled, light-blue-eyed,
crop-haired, and possessing the shadow of a coming event in the shape (I can't call it more)
of a moustache. I had also an impression of a Panama hat, which came off in compliment to me,
a gray flannel suit, the latest kind of collar (you know "Sissy Williams says, 'the feeling
is for low ones this year'!") and mustard-coloured boots. All that sounds hideous, I know,
yet it wasn't. At first sight it was rather attractive, but it lost its attractiveness in a
flash when it mistook the nature of my smile.

You wouldn't believe that a nice, clean little British face could change so much for the worse
in about the eighth part of a second! It couldn't have taken longer, or I shouldn't have seen,
because it happened between my smile and my walking on. But I did see. A disagreeable kind
of lighting up in the eyes, which instantly made them look full of--consciousness of sex, is
the only way I can express it. And instead of being inoffensive, boyish, blue beads, they were
suddenly transformed into the sharp, whitey-gray sort that the Neapolitans "make horns" at.

Well, all that was nothing to fuss about, for even I know that misguided youths from Surbiton
or Pawtucket, who are quite harmless at home, think they owe it to themselves to be gay dogs
when they run over to Paris, otherwise they'll not get their money's worth. If it hadn't been
for what came afterward I wouldn't be wasting paper and ink on a silly young bounder. As it
is, I'll just tell you what happened and see if you think I was to blame, or whether there's
likely to be any bother.

At that change my look slid off the self-conceited face, like rain off a particularly slippery
duck's back. He ought to have known then, if he hadn't before, that I considered him a mere
It, but I can just imagine his saying to himself: "This is Paris, and I've paid five pounds
for a return ticket. Must have something to tell the chaps. What's a girl doing out alone?"

He came after me and said I'd dropped something. So I had. It was a rose. I was going to disclaim
it, with all the haughty grace of a broomstick, when suddenly I remembered that it was my carte
d'identité, so to speak. The Dragon had prescribed it in his last letter to Madame de Maluet
about meeting Ellaline. As there might be difficulty in recognition if she came to the station
with a chaperon as strange to him as herself, it would be well, he suggested, that each pinned
a red rose on her dress. Then he would look out for two ladies with two roses.

I couldn't make myself into two ladies with two roses, but I must be one lady with one rose,
otherwise the Dragon and I might miss each other, and he would go out to Versailles to see
what the dickens was the matter. Then the fat would be in the fire, with a vengeance!

You see, I had to say "Yes" to the rose, because there wasn't time to call at a florist's and
try to buy another red label before going on to the Gare de Lyon. I put out my hand with a
"thank you" that sounded as if it needed oiling, but, as if on second thought the silly idiot
asked if he might keep the flower for himself. "It looks like an English rose," said he, with
a glance which transferred the compliment to me.

"Certainly not--sir," said I. "I need it myself."

"If that's all, you might let me give you a whole bunch to make up for it," said he.

Then I said, "Go away," which mayn't have been elegant, but was to the point. And I walked
on with long steps toward the place where there were cabs. But quite a short man is as tall
as a tall girl, and his steps were as long as mine.

"I say," said he, "you needn't be so cross. What's the harm, as long as we're both English,
and this is Paris?"

"I'm not English," I snapped. "If you don't go away I'll call a gendarme."

"You will look a fool if you do. A great tall girl like you," said he, trying to be funny.
And it did sound funny. I suppose I must have been pretty nervous, after all I'd gone through
with Ellaline, for I almost giggled, but I didn't, quite. On the contrary, I marched on like
a war-cloud about to burst, and proved my non-British origin by addressing a cabman in the
Parisian French I've inherited from you. I hoped that the boy couldn't understand, but he did.

"Mademoiselle, I have to go to the Gare de Lyon, too," he announced, "and it would be a very
friendly act, and show that you forgive me, if you'd let me take you there in a taxi-motor,
which you'll find much nicer than that old Noah's ark you're engaging."

"I don't forgive you," I said, as I mounted into the alleged ark. "Your only excuse is that
you're not grown up yet."

With that Parthian shot I ordered my cocher, who was furtively grinning by this time, to drive
on as quickly as possible.

Of course the horrid child from Surbiton or somewhere didn't have to go to the Gare de Lyon;
but evidently he regarded me as his last hope of an adventure before returning to his native
heath or duckpond; so, naturally, he followed in a taxi-motor, whose turbulent, goodness-knows-what-horse-power
had to be subdued to one-half-horse gait. I didn't look behind, but I felt in my bones--my
funny bones--that he was there. And when I arrived at the Gare de Lyon so did he.

The train I'd come to meet was a P. and O. Special, or whatever you call it, and it wasn't
in yet, so I had to wait.

"Cats may look at kings," said my gay cavalier.

"Cads mayn't though," said I. Perhaps I ought to have maintained a dignified silence, but that
mot was irresistible.

"You are hard on a chap," said he. "I tell you what. I've been thinking a lot about you, mademoiselle,
and I believe you're up to some little game of your own. When the cat's away the mice will
play. You've got rid of your friend, and you're out for a lark on your own. What?"

Oh, wouldn't I have loved to box his ears! But this time I was dignified and turned my back
on him. Luckily, the train came puffing into the station, and he ceased to bother me actively,
for the time; but the worst is to follow.

Now I think I've got to the part of my story where the Dragon ought to appear.

