Credits: Jon Ingram, William Flis and PG Distributed Proofreaders.

       *       *       *       *       *

NO. 3] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1849. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition, 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *{33}

CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                    Page
    Travelling in England .................................... 33
    Sanuto's Doges of Venice, by Sir F. Madden ............... 35
    Letters of Lord Nelson's Brother, immediately after the
      Battle of Trafalgar, by the Rev. A. Gatty .............. 36
    Misquotations ............................................ 38
    Herbert's and Dibdin's Ames--Rowland's Choise of
      Change--Greene's Royal Exchange ........................ 38
    Notes from Fly Leaves, No. 3. ............................ 39
    Abdication of James II. .................................. 39
    Writers on English History ............................... 40
    Queen Elizabeth's Domestic Establishment ................. 41
    Register of East Peckham Church, Kent .................... 41
    Pawnbrokers' Golden Balls ................................ 42
    Lions in the Tower ....................................... 42
    Notes on Authors and Books, No. 1, by Belton Corney ...... 42

  QUERIES:--
    Form of Petition ......................................... 43
    Query as to Notes--Greene of Green's Norton .............. 43
    Busts of Charles I. and James I.--Ancient Tapestry ....... 43
    Origin of the term "Factotum" ............................ 43
    Inscriptions on ancient Church Plate ..................... 44

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes of Book-Sales, Catalogues, &c. ..................... 44
    Queries still on our List ................................ 45
    Books and Odd Volumes wanted ............................. 46
    Notices to Correspondents ................................ 46
    Advertisements ........................................... 46

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAVELLING IN ENGLAND.

I suppose that the history of travelling in this country, from the Creation to the present
time, may be divided into four periods--those of no coaches, slow coaches, fast coaches, railways.
Whether balloons, or rockets, or some new mode which as yet has no name, because it has no
existence, may come next, I cannot tell, and it is hardly worth while to think about it; for,
no doubt, it will be something quite inconceivable.

The third, or fast-coach period was brief, though brilliant. I doubt whether fifty years have
elapsed since the newest news in the world of locomotive fashion was, that--to the utter confusion
and defacement of the "Sick, Lame, and Lazy," a sober vehicle so called from the nature of
its cargo, which was nightly disbanded into comfortable beds at Newbury--a new post-coach had
been set up which performed the journey to Bath in a single day. Perhaps the day extended from
about five o'clock in the morning to midnight, but still the coach was, as it called itself,
a "Day-coach," for it travelled all day; and if it did somewhat "add the night unto the day,
and so make up the measure," the passengers had all the more for their money, and were incomparably
better off as to time than they had ever been before. But after this many years elapsed before
"old Quicksilver" made good its ten miles an hour in one unbroken trot to Exeter, and was rivalled
by "young Quicksilver" on the road to Bristol, and beaten by the light-winged Hirondelle, that
flew from Liverpool to Cheltenham, and troops of others, each faster than the foregoing, each
trumpeting its own fame on its own improved bugle, and beating time (all to nothing) with sixteen
hoofs of invisible swiftness. How they would have stared if a parliamentary train had passed
them, especially if they could have heard its inmates grumbling over their slow progress, and
declaring that it would be almost quicker to get out and walk whenever their jealousy was roused
by the sudden flash of an express.

Certainly I was among those who rejoiced in the increased expedition of the fast-coach period;
not because I loved, but because I hated, travelling, and was glad to have periods of misery
abridged. I used to listen with delight to the stories of my seniors, and to marvel that in
so short a space of time so great an improvement had been made. One friend told me that in
earlier life he had travelled from Gloucester to Hereford in a coach, which performed the journey
of about thirty miles between the hours of five in the morning and seven in the evening. I
took it for granted that they stopped on the road to dine, and spent a long afternoon in smoking,
{34} napping, or playing at bowls. But he would not acknowledge anything of the kind, and the
impression on his mind was that they kept going (such going as it was), except during the time
necessarily expended in baiting the horses, who, I think, were not changed--unless indeed it
were from bad to worse by fatigue. Another friend, a physician at Sheffield, told me that one
of the first times (perhaps he may have said, the first) that a coach started for London, he
was a passenger. Without setting out unreasonably early in the morning, or travelling late
at night they made such progress, that the first night they lay at Nottingham, and the second
at Market Harborough. The third morning they were up early, and off at five o'clock; and by
a long pull and a strong pull through a long day, they were in time to hear Bow Church clock
strike eleven or twelve (I forget which) as they passed through Cheapside. In fact such things
have always seemed to me to be worth noting, for you never can tell to what extent, or even
in what direction, they may throw some little ray of light on an obscure point of history.
On this principle I thought it worth while to copy an original bill which lately fell into
my hands. Many such have been reprinted, but I am not aware that this one has; and as what
is wanted is a series, every little may help. It is as follows:--

"YORK Four Dayes

"Stage-Coach

"Begins on Monday the 18 of March 1678.

"And returns from York to Doncaster in a Forenoon, to Newark in a day and a half, to Stamford
in Two days, and from Stamford to London in Two days more.

                 / Henry Moulen
  "Performed by <  Margaret Gardner
                 \ Francis Gardner."

But I cannot deny that, while I have listened to, and rejoiced in, these stories, I have had
some doubt whether full justice has been done to the other side of the question. I have always
felt as if I had a sort of guilty knowledge of one contradictory fact, which I learned between
twenty and thirty years ago, and which no one whom I have yet met with has been able to explain.
For this reason I am desirous to lay it before you and your readers.

Just one hundred years ago--that is to say, on Sunday, the 10th of August, 1749--two German
travellers landed at Harwich. The principal one was Stephen Schultz, who travelled for twenty
years through various parts of Europe, Asia, and Africa, in the service of the Callenberg Institution
at Halle, of which he was afterwards Director, being at the same time Pastor of St. Ulrich's
Church in that city, where his picture is (or was about twenty years ago) to be seen affixed
to the great pillar next the organ. It represents him as an elderly divine in a black cap,
and with a grave and prediger-like aspect; but there is another likeness of him--an engraved
print--in which he looks more like a Turk than a Christian. He is dressed in a shawl turban,
brickdust-red mantle, and the rest of the costume which he adopted in his Eastern travels.
Our business, however, is with his English adventures, which must, I think, have astonished
him as much as anything that he met with in Arabia, even if he acted all the Thousand and One
Nights on the spot. As I have already said, he and his companion (Albrecht Friedrich Woltersdorf,
son of the Pastor of St. George's Church in Berlin), landed at Harwich on Sunday, August 10.
They staid there that night, and on Monday they walked over to Colchester. There (I presume
the next morning) they took the "Land-Kutsche," and were barely six hours on the road to London.

This statement seems to me to be so at variance with notorious facts, that, but for one or
two circumstances, I should have quietly set it down for a mistake; but as I do not feel that
I can do this, I should be glad to obtain information which may explain it. It is no error
of words or figures, for the writer expresses very naturally the surprise which he certainly
must have felt at the swiftness of the horses, and the goodness of the roads. He was a man
who had seen something of {35} the world, for he had lived five-and-thirty years, thirteen
of which had elapsed since he began his travels. As a foreigner he was under no temptation
to exaggerate the superiority of English travelling, especially to an extent incomprehensible
by his countrymen; and, in short, I cannot imagine any ground for suspecting mistake or untruth
of any kind.[1]

I have never been at Colchester, but I believe it is, and always was, full fifty miles from
London. Ipswich, I believe, is only eighteen miles farther; and yet fifteen years later we
find an advertisement (Daily Advertiser, Thursday, Aug. 30, 1764), announcing that London and
Ipswich Post Coaches on steel springs (think of that, and think of the astonished Germans careering
over the country from Colchester without that mitigation), from London to Ipswich in ten hours
with Postillions, set out every morning at seven o'clock, Sundays excepted, from the Black
Bull Inn, in Bishopsgate Street.

It is right, however, to add that the Herr Preniger Schultz and his companion appear to have
returned to Colchester, on their way back to Germany, at a much more moderate pace. The particulars
do not very exactly appear; but it seems from his journal that on the 16th of September they
dined with the Herr Prediger Pittius, minister of the German Church in the Savoy, at twelve
o'clock (nach teutscher art, as the writer observes). They then went to their lodging, settled
their accounts, took up their luggage, and proceeded to the inn from which the "Stäts-Kutsche"
was to start; and on arriving there found some of their friends assembled, who had ordered
a meal, of which they partook. How much time was occupied in all this, or when the coach set
out, does not appear; but they travelled the whole night, and until towards noon the next day,
before they got to Colchester. This is rather more intelligible; but as to their up-journey
I really am puzzled, and shall be glad of any explanation.

Yours, &c.

G.G.

    [1] It is perhaps right to give his words. Speaking of a person
    who acted as their guide, he says:--"Des folgenden Tages gieng er
    mit uns 22 engl. Meilen bis Colchester zu Fuss; wo wir uns auf
    die Land-Kutsche verdungen, mit welcher wir 50 englische Meilen
    d. i. 10 teutsche Meilen bis London, in solcher Geschwindigkeit
    endigten, dass wir auf dem ganzen Wege kaum 6 Stunden gefahren
    sind; so schnell gehen die englischen Pferde; aber auch so schön
    sind die englischen Wege." Der Leitungen des Höchsten, &c. Zw.
    Theil. Halle, 1772, p.62.

       *       *       *       *       *

SANUTO'S DOGES OF VENICE.

Mr. Editor,--Among the well-wishers to your projected periodical, as a medium of literary communication,
no one would be more ready to contribute to it than myself, did the leisure I enjoy permit
me often to do so. I have been a maker of Notes and Queries for above twenty-five years, and
perhaps should feel more inclined to trouble you with the latter than the former, in the hope
of clearing up some of the many obscure points in your history, biography, and poetical literature,
which have occurred to me in the course of my reading. At present, as a very inadequate specimen
of what I once designed to call Leisure Moments, I beg to copy the following Note from one
of my scrap-books:--

In the year 1420, the Florentines sent an embassy to the state of Venice, to solicit them to
unite in a league against the ambitious progress of Filippo Maria Visconti, Duke of Milan;
and the historian Daru, in his Histoire de Venise, 8vo., Paris, 1821, has fallen into more
than one error in his account of the transaction. Marino Sanuto, who wrote the lives of the
Doges of Venice in 1493 (Daru says, erroneously, some fifty years afterwards), has preserved
the Orations made by the Doge Tomaso Mocenigo, in opposition to the Florentine proposals; which
he copied, according to his statement, from a manuscript that belonged to the Doge himself.
Daru states, that the MS. was communicated to him by the Doge; but that could not be, since
the Doge died in 1423, and Sanuto was not born till 1466. An abridged translation of these
Orations is given in the Histoire de Venise, tom. ii, pp. 289-311.; and in the first of these,
pronounced in January, 1420 (1421, Daru), he is made to say, in reference to an ambassador
sent by the Florentines to the Duke of Milan, in 1414, as follows: "L'ambassadeur fut un Juif,
nommé Valori, banquier de sa profession,", p. 291. As a commentary on this passage, Daru subjoins
a note from the Abbé Laugier, who, in his Histoire de Venise, liv. 21., remarks, 1. That it
appears strange the Florentines should have {36} chose a Jew as an ambassador; 2. That his
surname was Bartolomeo, which could not have been borne by a Jew; 3. That the Florentine historian
Poggio speaks of Valori as having been one of the principal members of the Council of Florence.
The Abbé thence justly concludes, that the ambassador could not have been a Jew; and it is
extraordinary that Daru, after such a conclusive argument, should have admitted the term Jew
into his text. But the truth is, that this writer (like many others of great reputation) preferred
blindly following the text of Sanuto, as printed by Muratori[2], to the trouble of consulting
any early manuscripts. It happens, however, that in a manuscript copy of these Orations of
Mocenigo, written certainly earlier than the period of Sanuto, and preserved in the British
Museum, MS. Add. 12, 121., the true reading of the passage may be found thus:--"Fo mandato
Bartolomio Valori, homo richo, el qual viveva de cambij." By later transcribers the epithet
richo, so properly here bestowed on the Florentine noble, was changed into iudio (giudeo),
and having been transferred in that shape into Sanuto, has formed the groundwork of a serious
error, which has now existed for more than three centuries and a half.

FREDERICK MADDEN.

British Museum, Nov. 7. 1849

    [2] In the Rerum Italicarum Scriptores, tom. xxii. col. 947.,
    the passage stands thus: "Fu mandato Bartolomeo Valori, hom
    giudeo, el qual vivea di cambi." Two late copies of Sanuto,
    formerly in the Guildford collection, and now in the British
    Museum, MS. Add. 8575, 8576, read, "Bartoli Valori, hom iudio."

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS OF LORD NELSON'S BROTHER IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE BATTLE OF TRAFALGAR.

    [The following letters will be best illustrated by a few words
    derived from the valuable life of our great naval hero lately
    published by Mr. Pettigrew. Besides his last will, properly so
    called, which had been some time executed, Lord Nelson wrote and
    signed another paper of testamentary character immediately before
    he commenced the battle of Trafalgar. It contained an enumeration
    of certain public services performed by Lady Hamilton, and a
    request that she might be provided for by the country.
    He also recommended to the beneficence of his country his adopted
    daughter. "My relations," he concludes, "it is needless to
    mention; they will of course be amply provided for."

    This paper was delivered over to Lord Nelson's brother, together
    with his will. "Earl Nelson, with his wife and family, were then
    with Lady Hamilton, and had indeed been living with her many
    months. To their son Horatio, afterwards Viscount Trafalgar, she
    was as attentive as a mother, and their daughter had been almost
    exclusively under her care for education for six years. The
    Earl kept the codicil in his pocket until the day 120,000l. was
    voted for him by the House of Commons. On that day he dined with
    Lady Hamilton in Clarges Street, and learning at table what had
    been done, he brought forth the codicil, and throwing it to
    Lady Hamilton, coarsely said, she might now do with it as she
    pleased."--Pettigrew's Memoirs of Nelson, ii. 624, 625. Lady
    Hamilton took the paper to Doctors' Commons, where it stands
    registered as a codicil to Nelson's will. A knowledge of these
    circumstances is necessary to the full understanding of our
    correspondents communication.]

Sir,--The following letters may be found interesting as illustrative of the private history
of Lord Nelson, to which public attention has been strongly drawn of late by the able work
of Mr. Pettigrew. The letters were addressed by Earl Nelson to the Rev. A.J. Scott, the friend
and chaplain of the fallen hero.

    18, Charles Street, Berkeley Square,

    Dec. 2. 1805.

    Dear Sir,--I am this day favoured with your obliging letter of
    October 27.[3] The afflicting intelligence you designed to prepare
    me for had arrived much sooner; but I am duly sensible of the kind
    motive which inducted this mark of your attention and remembrance.

    The King has been pleased to command that his great and gallant
    servant shall be buried with funeral honours suitable to the
    splendid services he rendered to his country, and that the body
    shall be conveyed by water to Greenwich, in order to be laid in
    state. For myself I need not say how anxious I am to pay every
    tribute of affection and of respect to my honoured and lamented
    brother's remains. And it affords me great satisfaction to learn
    your intention of accompanying them till deposited in their last
    earthly mansion. The coffin made of the L'Orient's mast will be
    sent to Greenwich to await the arrival of the body, and I hope
    there to have an opportunity of making my acknowledgments in
    person.

    Believe me, dear Sir,

    Your faithful friend, and obedient humble servant,

    NELSON.
{37}
    I beg the favour of your transmitting to me by the first safe
    opportunity such of my dear brother's papers (not of a public
    nature) as are under your care, and of making for me (with my
    sincere regards and kind compliments) to Captain Hardy the like
    request.

    Please to let me hear from you the moment you arrive at Portsmouth
    and direct to me as above, when I will send you any further
    directions I may have received from ministers.

    18 Charles Street, Berkeley Square,

    Dec. 6. 1805.

    My dear Sir,--I have this moment received your kind letter. I do
    not know I can add any thing to my former letter to you, or to
    what I have written to Captain Hardy. I will speak fully to Mr.
    Chevalier[4] before he leaves me.

    Your faithful and obliged humble servant,

    NELSON.

    It will be of great importance that I am in possession of his
    last will and codicils as soon as possible--no one can say
    that it does not contain among other things, many directions
    relative to his funeral.

    18 Charles Street, Berkeley Square,

    Dec. 13. 1805.

    Dear Sir,--I have been to the Admiralty, and I am assured that
    leave will be sent to you to quit the ship, and follow the remains
    of my dear brother when you please. We have determined to send Mr.
    Tyson with the coffin to the Victory, when we know she is at the
    Nore. He, together with Captain hardy and yourself, will see the
    body safely deposited therein. I trust to the affection of all
    for that. The Admiralty will order the Commissioner's yacht at
    Sheerness to receive it, and bring it to Greenwich. I suppose an
    order from the Admiralty will go to Captain Hardy to deliver the
    body to Mr. Tyson, and you will of course attend. But if this
    should be omitted by any mistake of office, I trust Captain Hardy
    will have no difficulty.

    There is no hurry in it, as the funeral will not be till the 10th
    or 12th of January.

    We do not wish to send Tyson till we have the will and codicil,
    which Captain Hardy informed me was to come by Captain Blackwood
    from Portsmouth on Tuesday last. We are surprised he is not here.
    Compts. to Captain Hardy. Write to me as soon as you get to the
    Nore, or before, if you can.

    Believe me, yours faithfully,

    NELSON

    Excuse this hasty and blotted scrawl, as I have been detained so
    long at the Admiralty that I have scarce time to save the Post.

    Canterbury,

    Dec. 26, 1805

    Dear Sir,--I received your letters of the 23rd and 25th this
    morning. I am glad to hear the remains of my late dear and most
    illustrious brother are at length removed to Mr. Peddieson's
    coffin, and safely deposited in Greenwich Hospital. Your kind and
    affectionate attention throughout the whole of this mournful and
    trying scene cannot fail to meet my sincere and grateful thanks,
    and that of the whole family. I am perfectly satisfied with the
    surgeon's reports which have been sent to me, that every thing
    proper has been done. I could wish to have known what has been
    done with the bowels--whether they were thrown overboard, or
    whether they were preserved to be put into the coffin with the
    body. The features being now lost, the face cannot, as Mr. Beatty
    very properly observes, be exposed; I hope therefore everything is
    closed and soldered down.

    I wrote to Mr. Tyson a few days ago, and should be glad to hear
    from him. I mean to go towards London about the 1st, 2nd or 3rd of
    Jan (the day not yet fixed), and call at Greenwich for a moment,
    just to have a melancholy sight of the coffin, &c. &c., when I
    hope I shall see you.

    I shall be glad to hear from you as often as you have any thing
    new to communicate, and how the preparations go on. Every thing
    now is in the hands of government, but, strange to tell, I have
    not yet heard from the Herald's Office, whether I am to attend
    the procession or not.

    Believe me,

    Your much obliged humble servant,

    NELSON.

The codicil referred to in these letters proved to be, or at least to include, that memorable
document which the Earl suppressed, when he produced the will, lest it should curtail his own
share of the amount of favour which a grateful country would be anxious to heap on the representative
of the departed hero. By this unworthy conduct the fortunes of Lady Hamilton and her still
surviving daughter were at once blighted.

The Earl as tightly held all he had, as he grasped all he could get. It was expected that he
would resign his stall at Canterbury in favour of his brother's faithful chaplain and when
he "held on" notwithstanding his peerage and riches, he was attacked in the newspapers. The
following letter is the last communication with which Dr. Scott was honoured, for his work
was done:--

    Canterbury, May 28, 1806.

    Sir,--I am glad to find, by your letter, that you are not
    concerned in the illiberal and {38} unfounded paragraphs which
    have appeared and daily are appearing in the public prints.

    I am, Sir, your very humble servant,

    NELSON.

The Rev. Dr. Scott.

The above have never been printed, and I shall be glad if they are thought worthy of a place
in your very useful and interesting periodical. I am, Sir, &c.,

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield, 7th Nov. 1849.

    [3] The Battle of Trafalgar was fought October 21.

    [4] Lord Nelson's steward in the Victory.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISQUOTATIONS.

Mr. Editor,--The offence of misquoting the poets is become so general, that I would suggest
to publishers the advantage of printing more copious indexes than those which are now offered
to the public. For the want of these, the newspapers sometimes make strange blunders. The Times,
for instance, has lately, more than once, given the following version of a well-known couplet:--

  "Vice is a monster of so frightful mien,
  As to be hated needs but to be seen."

The reader's memory will no doubt instantly substitute such hideous for "so frightful," and
that for "as."

The same paper, a short time since, made sad work with Moore, thus:--

  "You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
  But the scent of the roses will hang by it still."

Moore says nothing about the scents hanging by the vase. "Hanging" is an odious term, and destroys
the sentiment altogether. What Moore really does say is this:--

  "You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
  But the scent of the roses will cling round it still."

Now the couplet appears in its original beauty.

It is impossible to speak of the poets without thinking of Shakspeare, who towers above them
all. We have yet to discover an editor capable of doing him full justice. Some of Johnson's
notes are very amusing, and those of recent editors occasionally provoke a smile. If once a
blunder has been made it is persisted in. Take, for instance, a glaring one in the 2nd part
of Henry IV., where, in the apostrophe to sleep, "clouds" is substituted for "shrouds."

That shrouds is the correct word is so obvious, that it is surprising any man of common understanding
should dispute it. Yet we find the following note in Knight's pictorial edition:--

    "Clouds.--Some editors have proposed to read shrouds.

Clouds in this instance is perfectly consistent; but here the scene is altogether different.
We have no ship-boy sleeping on the giddy mast, in the midst of the shrouds, or ropes, rendered
slippery by the perpetual dashing of the waves against them during the storm.

If in Shakspeare's time the printer's rule of "following copy" had been as rigidly observed
as in our day, errors would have been avoided, for Shakspeare's MS. was sufficiently clear.

D***N**R.

8th Nov. 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERBERT AND DIBDIN'S AMES.

BORDE'S BOKE OF KNOWLEDGE--BOWLAND'S CHOISE OF CHANGE--GREENE'S ROYAL EXCHANGE.

Mr. Editor,--I am induced to mention the following misstatement in Herbert's edition of Ames'
Typographical Antiquities, enlarged by Dibdin, not by its importance, but by its supplying
an appropriate specimen of the benefits which would be conferred on bibliography by your correspondents
complying with Dr. Maitland's recommendations.

"Mr. Bindley," says Dibdin, "is in possession of the original impression of Borde's Boke of
the Introduction of Knowledge, which was successively in the collection of West and Pearson.
This copy, and another in the Chetham Library at Manchester, are the only ones known with the
following {39} imprint: 'Copland in Fletestrete, at the signe of the Rose Garland.' In the
Selden Collection, in the Bodleian Library, and in the copy from which Mr. Upcott published
his reprint, we read on the recto of the last leaf, 'Imprented at London in Lothbury ouer agaynste
Sainct Margaryte's Church, by me Wyllyam Copland.'"

The copy in the Chetham Library, now lying before me, corresponds with the description of the
latter impression. Dibdin's mistake perhaps originated in the last page of the work preceding
Borde, which is bound up with four other works, having the following: "Imprinted at London
in Fleetestrete by Henry Wykes."

This volume contains--

    "The Choise of Change: Containing the Triplicitie of Diuinitie,
    Philosophie, and Poetrie, Short for memorie, Profitable for
    Knowledge, and necessary for Maners; whereby the learned may
    be confirmed, the ignorant instructed, and all men generally
    recreated. Newly set forth by S.R., Gent and Student in the
    Universitie of Cambridge. Tria sunt omnia. At London, Printed
    by Roger Warde, dwelling neere Holborne Conduite, at the sign
    of the Talbot, An. Dom. 1585."

These letters, S.R., are the well known initials of Samuel Rowlands, who appears to have been
a Welshman, from his love of Triads, and from the dedications found in this the rarest of his
works, and those described by Mr. Collier in his Catalogue of the Bridgewater House Collection.
In the same volume is comprised a tract by Greene, with a copy of which Mr. Dyce could never
meet, entitled The Royal Exchange, printed in 1590.

T. JONES.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES FROM FLY LEAVES, NO. 3

The following lines are copied from the fly leaf of a copy of the Necessary Doctrine and Erudition.
Are they original?

  Anno Dni md 47.

    E P

  Davyd's seat vnto the we comend
  Salomon's wysdome god the send
  Iohnes valiauntnesse in the reste
  Theys iij in oon be in thy brest.

A Description of a Kyng after Scripture.

  Prov. 21  The hart of a kyng is in goddes hande
  Sap. 6    The strengthe of a realme ys a ryghteouse kyng
  Deut. 17  The kyng ought to kepe hym in the bande
  Reg. 20   Of the lawe of God the same readynge
  Prov. 20  Kyngs be happye in mercy doyng
  3 Reg. 3  Askynge wysdome of god omnipotent
              To discerne good from an evyll thyng
  Prov. 25  Take away vngodlines from the Kyng
              And his seat shall be stablyshed with ryght judgmet
           Let vs pray for the Kyng and hym honour
      EDWARD the sext our earthlye socour God save ye Kyng.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABDICATION OF JAMES II.

Mr. Editor,--The recent publication of Macaulay's History of England, and the fresh prominence
given thereby to the occurrences of the Revolution of 1688, have induced me, joined to a wish
for the success of your happily-conceived work, to send you the following "Note." It was drawn
up by the late Sir Harris Nicolas, and printed in the Proceedings of the late Record Commissioners.
As, however, only fifty copies were printed for the use of the Commissioners, and a copy is
rarely met with, perhaps this Note may have sufficient novelty for insertion. Sir Harris Nicolas,
as editor of the Proceedings of the Privy Council, would doubtless, had that work been continued
to 1688, have used the MSS. if attainable.

"Notice of manuscript in the possession of the Rev. Sir Thomas Miller, Bart., containing the
original Minutes of the Assembly of Peers and Privy Councillors that met at Guildhall, upon
the flight of James II. from London.

    "Extracts from Memorandum of a MS. in the possession of the Rev.
    Sir Thomas Miller, Bart. shown to Mr. Cooper, Secretary to the
    Record Commissioners, to Sir Harris Nicolas, and to Mr. Hardy, in
    May, 1833, at Sir Thomas Miller's lodgings in the Edgeware Road.

"Immediately after the flight of James the Second from London, on the 11th of December, 1688,
a tumult arose among the citizens which created considerable alarm; and with the view of preserving
the peace, of imparting public confidence, and of providing for the extraordinary state of
affairs, all the Peers and Privy Councillors then in the vicinity of the metropolis assembled
at Guildhall. Of this important Assembly Bishop Burnet's notice is very brief, and it would
appear from his statement that it was called by the Lord Mayor.[5] A more full account of the
Convention {40} is, however, given in the Memoir of James the Second published by Dr. Clarke:
'It seems, upon the King's withdrawing from London, the lords about town met at Guildhall to
consult what was fit to be done. They looked upon the present state of affairs as an interregnum,
that the government was in a manner devolved upon them, and were in great haste to make a present
of it to the Prince of Orange.'[6] Other acts of this Assembly are then mentioned; and its
proceedings are among the most interesting and important events in English history, not only
from their forming a precedent in a conjuncture of affairs for which no express provision is
to be found in the constitution, but from the first regular offer of the throne to the Prince
of Orange having emanated from this Convention. No Record of its proceedings has, it is presumed,
been hitherto known to exist; and the fact that so valuable a Document is extant, cannot be
too generally stated, for it is obvious that it has high claims to the attention of historians.

"Sir Thomas Miller possesses the original Minutes of this Assembly of the Peers in the handwriting
of a Mr. Glyn, who acted as secretary. His appointment to that situation is also preserved;
and, as it is signed by all the Lords who were present, it affords evidence of the names of
the Peers who took part in the business of the Assembly, and contains a very interesting collection
of autographs.

"The MS. itself is a small folio, but not above fifty pages are filled. It comprises the period
between the 11th and the 28th December, 1688, both days inclusive, and appears to be a perfect
Record of every act of that memorable Assembly. The indorsement on the cover merits notice:
it states with singular minuteness the precise hour of James's abdication, namely at one in
the morning of the 11th of December, 1688."

Sir Thomas Miller also possessed a manuscript, containing an "Account of the Earl of Rochester,
Captain Kendall, and the Narrator's Journey to Salisbury with King James, Monday, Nov. 19.
to Friday, Nov. 23. 1688, inclusive."

In connection with this subject, it may be noticed that there is no entry of any payment in
the Issue Books of the clerks of the Pells between Tuesday, 11th December, and Monday, 24th
December, 1688. J.E.

    [Perhaps some of our correspondents could inform us where the MSS.
    in question are now deposited.]

    [5] After mentioning the excesses committed by the mob, and the
    arrest of Judge Jefferies, Bishop Burnet says: "The Lord Mayor
    was so struck with the terror of this rude populace, and with the
    disgrace of a man who had made all people tremble before him, that
    he fell into fits upon it, of which he died soon after.

    "To prevent the further growth of such disasters, he called
    a Meeting of the Privy Councillors and Peers, who meet at
    Guildhall," &c. The pronoun he must relate to the Lord Mayor,
    but the sentence is obscurely expressed.

    [6] Vol. ii. pp. 259, 260.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPINIONS OF WRITERS ON ENGLISH HISTORY, NO. 1.

    "Oh, do not read history, for that I know must be false."--SIR
    ROBERT WALPOLE.

Sir,--I have, from time to time, made a few notes on our historical writers--rather I should
say the conflicting opinions of critical writers on their relative value, and the dependence
to be placed on them as historical guides. They are so opposite, as would in a great measure
confirm the opinion of the celebrated statesman above quoted. I send, as a specimen, the opinions
upon Burnet, and should its insertion in your "NOTES AND QUERIES" be deemed advisable, I will
from time to time send others which I have in my note-book.

M.

Burnet, "A good historian and an honest man."--Lord Brougham.

"The History of his Own Times, which Burnet left behind him, is a work of great instruction
and amusement.... His ignorance of parliamentary forms has led him into some errors, it would
be absurd to deny, but these faults do not detract from the general usefulness of his work."--Lord
John Russell.

"The most partial, malicious heap of scandal and misrepresentation, that was ever collected
for the laudable design of giving a false impression of persons and things to all future ages."--Lord
Dartmouth: note in Dr. Routh's edition.

"A rash and partial writer."[7]--Macaulay.

"It is a piece of justice I owe to historical truth to say, that I have never tried Burnet's
facts by the tests of dates and of original papers, without finding them wrong."--Sir J. Dalrymple.

"Burnet had all the merits and all the faults of an ardent, impetuous, headstrong man, whose
mind was honest, and whose objects were noble. Whatever he reports himself to have heard or
seen, the reader may be assured he really did hear and see. But we must {41} receive his representations
and conclusions with that caution which must ever be observed when we listen to the relation
of a warm and busy partizan, whatever be his natural integrity and good sense."--Smyth's Lectures
on Modern History.

"His history is one which the present editor (Dr. Routh) truly says will never lose its importance,
but will continue to furnish materials for other historians, and to be read by those who wish
to derive their knowledge of facts from the first sources of information. The accuracy of his
narrative has often been attacked with vehemence, and often, it must be confessed, with success,
but not so often as to overthrow the general credit of his work."--Quarterly Review.

"Rarely polished, I never read so ill a style."--Swift.

    [7] Our correspondent should have added exact references to the
    places where these passages are to be found. Mr. Macaulay may
    have written these words quoted by our correspondent, in some
    hasty moment, but his summary of the character of Burnet in his
    history of England, ii. 175. 2nd Edition--a very noble and well
    considered passage--gives a very different and far juster estimate
    of Burnet's character.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEEN ELIZABETH'S DOMESTIC ESTABLISHMENT.

Your readers may be curious to see a list of the persons composing the domestic establishment
(as it may be called) of Queen Elizabeth in the middle of her reign, and an account of the
sums of money severally allowed to them out of the privy purse of the sovereign. The payments
will seem remarkably small, even allowing for the great difference in the value of money then
and now. What that difference may be, I am not prepared to say; and I will venture here to
put it as a "Query," to be answered by some competent person who may read this "Note." I have
seen it stated by more than one writer, that the difference in the value of money at the end
of Elizabeth's reign was at least five times, i.e. that one pound then would go as far as five
pounds now; but I am not aware of the data upon which the calculation was made. I apprehend,
besides, that the difference was greater in 1582, to which what follows applies, than afterwards,
and I should be glad to have the matter cleared up. The subsequent account is indorsed in the
hand-writing of Lord Burghley, Lord Treasurer, in these words:--"1582. The payment of the Ladies
of the Privy Chamber;" but it applies also to the gentlemen.

  Wages paid to the Privy Chamber by the Year.

  The Bedchamber:                      £  s. d.
      The Lady Cobham, by the year     20  0  0
      The Lady Carewe                  33  6  8
      Mrs. Blanch Apprye[8]            33  6  8

  Gentlewomen of the Privy Chamber:
      Bridget Cave                     33  6  8
      The Lady Howard                  33  6  8
      The Lady Stafford                33  6  8
      The Lady Arundell                33  6  8
      The Lady Leighton                33  6  8
      Frances Howard                   33  6  8
      Dorothy Edmundes                 33  6  8

  Chamberers:
      The Lady Bartlett                20  0  0
      The Lady Drury                   20  0  0
      Mrs. Mary Skydmore               20  0  0
      Mrs. Katherine Newton            20  0  0
      Mrs. Jane Brucella               20  0  0

  Gentlemen of the Privy Chamber:
      Sir Christopher Hatton, Knight   50  0  0
      John Ashley, Esq.                33  6  8

  Gentlemen Usher of the Privy Chamber:
      Sir Drew Drury, Knight           30  0  0

  Grooms of the Privy Chamber:
      Thomas Ashley                    20  0  0
      Henry Sackford                   20  0  0
      John Baptiste                    20  0  0
      Thomas Knevett                   20  0  0
      Edward Carey                     20  0  0
      Thomas George                    20  0  0
      William Killigrew                20  0  0
                                      ---------
                  Summa Totalis       673  6  8
                                      =========

The above 673l. 6s. 8d. was the whole sum paid out of the privy purse; but it is to be borne
in mind that these persons were allowed diet and lodging in the Court, so that, after all,
the payments were not quite as insignificant as they may at first seem. Whatever also may have
been the case with the ladies, it is certain that the gentlemen had other sources of emolument
derived from the Crown, such as monopolies, valuable grants of royal domains, leases of customs,
&c., which altogether made up an ample income. Sir Christopher Hatton, for instance, could
not have built Holdenby out of his 50l. a year as Gentleman of the Privy Chamber.

ANTIQUARIUS.

    [8] The names are spelt precisely as they stand in the
    document itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXTRACTS FROM PARISH REGISTERS OF EAST PECKHAM, KENT.

Sir,--In my commonplace book I find the following notes, being extracts from the ancient Registers
of East Peckham Church, Kent, which have never (I believe) been published, and which may perhaps
be of service to the historian or antiquary.

    1637. This yeare was the Communion-table rayled in by the
    appointment of Dr. Ryves, Dean of Shorham {42} Deanery, and
    Chancellor to the most Reverend Father in God, William Laud,
    Archbishop of Canterbury, who commanded this uniformity to
    be general throughout the kingdom.

    1638. This time of lent being to be kept holy by fasting and
    abstinence from flesh, notwithstanding Sir Roger Twisden, Knt
    and Baronett and Dame Isabella his wife, being both very sick
    and weake, in my judgement and opinion [are] to be tolerated
    for the eating of flesh.

    FRANCISC. WORRALL, Vicar.

A similar entry occurs for the three following years.

    1648. Upon the third of June the following Infants all born in
    the parish of Brenchley were baptized in this parish Church, by
    an order granted from Sir John Sedley, Knight and Baronett, Sir
    John Rayney, and Sir Isaac Sedley, Knights:--

    "Whereas complaints have often been made unto us by many of the
    principal inhabitants of the Parish of Brenchley, that they having
    desired Mr. Gilbert, minister of the said Parish, to baptize their
    children, and according to the Directorie offered to present them
    before the Congregation, he hath neglected or refused so to do;
    whereby divers infants remain unbaptized, some of them above a
    year old, expressly contrary to the said Directorie.

    "We do therefore order that the parents of such children do bring
    them unto the Parish Church of East Peckham, where we desire that
    Mr. Topping, minister of the said Parish, would baptize them
    according to the sayd Directorie, they acquainting him with the
    day they intend to bring them beforehand.

    "Dated ye 25th of May 1648.

    "JOHN SEDLEY.

    "JOHN RAYNEY.

    "ISAAC SEDLEY."

The last extract may illustrate the progress of Anabaptism, under the Parliamentary rule, and
serves by way of curious sequel to the preceding excerpta.

In a window of the same church I observed this inscription:--"Here stoode the wicked fable
of Mychael waying of [souls]. By the law of Qvene Elizabeth according to God[s] Word is taken
away."

C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAWNBROKERS' THREE BALLS.

Mr. Editor,--The Edinburgh Reviewer, cited by your correspondent Mr. W.J. Thoms, seems to have
sought rather too far for the origin of a pawnbroker's golden balls.

He is right enough in referring their origin to the Italian bankers, generally called Lombards;
but he has overlooked the fact that the greatest of those traders in money were the celebrated
and eventually princely house of the Medici of Florence. They bore pills on their shield, (and
those pills, as usual then, were gilded,) in allusion to the professional origin from whence
they had derived the name of Medici; and their agents in England and other countries put that
armorial bearing over their doors as their sign, and the reputation of that house induced others
to put up the same sign.

H.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LIONS IN THE TOWER.

Mr. Editor,--Some one of your readers may be interested in knowing that there was a royal menagerie
in the Tower of London in the reign of Edward III. In the Issue Roll of the forty-fourth year
of his reign, 1370, there are five entries of payments made to "William de Garderobe, keeper
of the king's lions and leopards" there, at the rate of 6d. a day for his wages, and 6d. a
day for each beast.--pp. 25. 216. 298. 388. 429.

The number of "beasts" varied from four to seven. Two young lions are specially mentioned;
and a "lion lately sent by the Lord the Prince from Gascony to England to the Lord the King."

[Greek: Phi]

    [Our correspondent's NOTE is an addition to what Bayley has given
    us on this subject; who tells us, however, that as early as 1252,
    Henry III. sent to the Tower a white bear, which had been brought
    to him as a present from Norway, when the Sheriffs of London were
    commanded to pay four pence every day for its maintenance.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON AUTHORS AND BOOKS, NO. 1.

THE "BIBLIOGRAPHIE BIOGRAPHIQUE."

A lover of literature, and aspiring to promote its extension and improvement, I sometimes form
projects for the adoption of others--sensible, be it also said, of the extent of my own engagements
with certain learned societies.

One of these projects has been a tabular view of the literary biography of the British Islands.
In the midst of my reflections on the plans of Blair, Priestly, Playfair, Oberlin, Tytler,
Jarry de Mancy, &c. I received a specimen of a Bibliographie biographique, by Edouard-Marie
Oettinger, now in the press at Leipzic.

As books multiply, the inexpediency of attempting general bibliography becomes more {43} and
more apparent. Meritorious as are the works of Brunet and Ebert, and useful as they may be
to collectors, they are inadequate to the wants of men of letters. Henceforth, the bibliographer
who aims at completeness and accuracy must restrict himself to one class of books.

M. Oettinger appears to have acted on this principle, and has been happy in the choice of his
subject--

  "The proper study of mankind is man."

The work is comprehensive in its object, judicious in its plan, accurate in its details, as
far as the specimen proceeds, and an unquestionable desideratum in literature.

Ainsi, vive M. Edouard-Marie Oettinger! Vive la Bibliographie biographique!

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORM OF PETITION.

When a Petition ends with "Your Petitioner shall ever pray, &c." what form of words does the
"&c." represent?

B.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERY AS TO NOTES--GREENE OF GREEN'S NORTON.

Mr. Editor,--I congratulate you on your happy motto, but will you give your readers the results
of your own experience and practice, and tell them the simplest mode of making Notes, and when
made, how to arrange them so as to find them when required?

I have been in the habit of using slips of paper--the blank turn-overs of old-fashioned letters
before note paper came into fashion--and arranging in subjects as well as I could; but many
a note so made has often caused me a long hour's looking after: this ought not so to be; pigeon-holes
or portfolios, numbered or lettered, seem to be indispensable.

Has any reader a Note whereby to tell who are the present representatives of Greenes of "Green's
Norton?" or who was "Richard Greene, Apothecary," who was living 1770, and bore the arms of
that family?

H.T.E.

    [Our answer to our correspondent's first Query is, send your
    Notes to us, who will print and index them.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

BUSTS OF CHARLES I. AND JAMES I.--ANCIENT TAPESTRY.

1. Where is now the bust of Charles I., formerly in Westminster Hall, and engraved by Peter
Mazell, for Pennant's London, in which engraving the bust is attributed to Bernini, though
Vertue thought differently? (See Dallaway's Walpole, 1826, ii. 109.)

2. Also, where is the correspondent bust of James I., formerly at Whitehall, of which there
is an engraving by N. Smith?

3. What has become of the tapestry of the reign of Henry VI. which formerly adorned the Painted
Chamber in the ancient Palace of Westminster? It appears that it remained in one of the lower
apartments from the time when it was taken down in 1800 until the year 1810; that it was then
sold to Charles Yarnold, Esq., of Great Helen's, Bishopsgate Street, for 10l. After his death
in 1825, in the auction of his collection at Southgate's (June 11. that year, lot 238), it
was sold as "Seven pieces representing the Siege of Troy, for 7l. to Mr. Matheman." Who was
Mr. Matheman? and what has now become of his acquisition?

Another piece of tapestry in Mr. Yarnold's possession, but it may be presumed in far better
condition, was bought by Mr. Teschmaker, his executor, for 63l. This was described as "The
Plantagenet Tapestry, in fine preservation, containing 23 full-sized portraits of the different
branches of the Houses of York and Lancaster: among the most prominent are Margaret of Anjou;
Cicely, Duchess of York; the Duke of Gloucester, afterwards Richard III.; Edward of Lancaster,
Henry VI.; Earl of March, son of Richard (Duke of York and) afterwards Edward IV.; Henry VII.;
Clarence [?] Duke of York," &c. This description raises one's curiosity greatly, and query,
has this tapestry been elsewhere described? At the meeting of the Archæological Association
at Warwick in 1847, it was supposed to have come from St. Mary's Hall, Coventry; but that idea
seems to have arisen merely from its similarity of design to the tapestry which is now there.

N.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF EPITHET "FACTOTUM."

Sir,--The following expression in Cavendish's Life of Wolsey, p. 42.--"He was {44} Dominus
fac totum with the king"--seems to point us to some ecclesiastical origin for the derivation
of our familiar word "factotum." Does any one know the precise whereabouts of such a phrase
in the Ancient Service books?

C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

INSCRIPTION ON ANCIENT ALMS-BASINS.

Mr. Editor,--In the parish church in which I officiate are preserved four ancient and curious
alms-basins, of latten; They appear to be of Flemish workmanship, and, from inventories of
the church goods, made at different times, we may gather that they were given for their present
use during the seventeenth century. They represent:--1. The Martyrdom of St. Sebastian; 2.
The Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin; 3. The Temptation in Eden; and 4. The Spies bearing
the Grapes. Around each of these subjects is a legend in foreign characters, "DER. INFRID.
GEHWART." I have submitted this inscription to antiquaries and German scholars in vain; it
still remains a puzzle. It has been suggested that it may have been only an arbitrary mark
of the maker. Is this probable? If not, will you, or one of your readers, give the interpretation
to

CLERICUS?

Nov. 8, 1849.

    [We have much pleasure in inserting the foregoing QUERY, and
    trust that many of our correspondents will follow the example of
    Clericus, by furnishing us with copies of the inscriptions on
    any ancient church plate in their possession, or which may come
    under their notice. A comparison of examples will often serve to
    remove such difficulties as the present, which perhaps may be read
    DERIN FRID GEHWART, "Therein Peace approved;" Gewären being used
    in the sense of Bewähren, authority for which may be found in
    Wackernagel.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF BOOK SALES--CATALOGUES, ETC.

It is our purpose from time to time to call the attention of our book-buying friends to the
approaching sales of any collections which may seem to us to deserve their attention; and to
any catalogues which may reach us containing books of great rarity and curiosity. Had we entertained
no such intention we should have shown our respect for the memory of that intelligent, obliging,
and honourable member of the bookselling profession (to whom a literary man rarely addressed
a QUERY, without receiving in reply a NOTE of information worth preserving), the late Mr. Thomas
Rodd, by announcing that the sale of the first portion of his extensive and valuable stock
of books will commence on Monday next, the 19th instant, and occupy the remainder of that week.

The following Lots are among the specimens of the rarities contained in this portion of Mr.
Rodd's curious stock:--

  189 ACTS OF PARLIAMENT, Orders, Declarations,
        Proclamations, &c. 1657 to 1660, the original
        Papers and Broadsides collected and bound in
        1 vol. calf                 1657-60

  *** This very important volume contains the Acts, &c.
        during the period intervening between Scobell's
        Collection and the recognized Statutes of
        Charles II. As the laws during this period
        have never been collected into a regular edition,
        a series of them is of the greatest rarity.

  194 ÆSOP, FABLES, TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH
        WILLIAM CAXTON, curious wood engravings
        BLACK LETTER, VERY RARE, imperfect, old russia
        EMPRYNTED BY RICHARD PYNSON (NO DATE)

  *** This edition is altogether unknown and undescribed.
        The present copy commences with signature C1, and
        extends to sig. S(v) in sixes, on the reverse of
        which is the colophon, with Pynson's device
        underneath. It wants sheets A and B, and E (iiii).

  380 Cellii (E.) Eques Auratus Anglo-Wirtembergieus;
        id est, actus admodum Solennis; quo
        Jacobus Rex Angliæ, &c. Regii Garteriorum
        supremus ac Frid. Ducem Wirtembergicum,
        per Rob. Spencer Barnoem declaravit,
        portrait woodcut             Tubing. 1605

  *** This was Sir Wm. Dethick's copy, Garter King at
        Arms, who accompanied Lord Spencer in his
        journey; in it he has written some very curious
        circumstances respecting the journey, and of
        the ill-treatment he experienced from Sir Rob.
        Spencer and Wm. Seager, "a poore paynter,
        sonne of a base fleminge and spawne of a Jew,"
        with an account of the family of Dethick, or De
        Dyk, of Derbyshire and Staffordshire.

  475 CHRISTINE OF PISA. THE FAYT OF ARMES AND OF CHYVALRYE
        BLACK LETTER, one leaf inlaid and three or four
        beautifully fac-similed, otherwise a fine and
        perfect copy, russia extra, gilt leaves, by C.
        Lewis WESTMESTRE, PER CAXTON, MCCCCLXXXIX

  *** This work consists of 139 leaves, exclusive of
      the table, occupying two leaves. The Colophon of
      the Printer is one of great interest, filling
      the two last pages. It thus commences:--"Thur
      endeth this boke, whiche xpyne of pyse made
      drewe out of the boke named Vegecius de re
      militari and out of tharbre of bataylles
      wyth many other thynges sett in to the same
      requisite to werre and batailles, which boke
      beyng in Frenshe was delyvered to me Willm
      Caxton by the most crysten kinge and sedoubted
      prynce, my naturel and souvrayn {45}
      Lord Kyng Henry the VII, Kyng of England
      and of France, in his Palais of Westmestre,
      the 23 day of Janyuere, the III of his regne,
      and desire and wylsed me to translate this
      said boke and reduce it into our enlish natural
      tonge and to put it in enprynte, &c."

  522 ENGLAND:--Copy of a Letter written by a Spanish
      Gentleman to his Friend in England in refutation
      of sundry Calumnies there falsely bruited among
      the People, 1589--An Advertisement written to a
      Secretarie of my Lord Treasurer of Ingland by an
      Inglish Intelligencer as he passed through Germanie
      towards Italie; also a Letter written by the
      Lord Treasurer, 1592.

  *** Two very rare and curious historical pieces, written
      by a zealous Catholic in defence of Philip II.

  944 Neumayr van Ramszla (J.W.) Johann fursten des
      Jungern Hertzogen zu Sachsen, Reise in Franckreich
      Engelland und Nederland, port. and plates
      russia extra, gilt leaves           Lips. 1620

  *** The volume contains accounts of many of the
      pictures and curiosities in the royal palaces of
      Westminster, St. James, &c.

On the following Monday will commence the sale of the theological portion of his collection,
which will occupy eight days, and conclude on the 4th of December. The sales are entrusted
to the management of Messrs. S. Leigh Sotheby & Co. of Wellington Street.

We have also received from Mr. Asher of Berlin, a copy of the Bibliotheca Tieckiana--the sale
catalogue of the library of Ludwig Tieck, the distinguished German poet, novelist, and critic.
The sale will commence at Berlin on the 10th December, with the English portion of the library,
which besides the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th folios, is particularly rich in works illustrative of Shakespeare,
and of translations of various portions of our great dramatist's writings. The following lot,
comprising an edition, we believe, not very generally known, and containing the manuscript
notes and comments of so profound a critic as Ludwig Tieck, ought to find an English purchaser.

  2152  THE PLAYS OF W. SHAKSPEARE, with the Corrections
        and Illustrations of various Commentators,
        to which are added Notes by Johnson and
        Steevens. 23 vols. gr. in 8vo. Basil 1800-1802

  "Exemplaire unique et de la plus grande importance,
      contenant des notes sans nombre de la main de
      M. Tieck. Ces notes renferment les fruits d'une
      étude de plus de 40 ans sur le grand poète, par
      son plus grand traducteur et commentateur, et
      forment le texte du grand ouvrage sur Shakspeare,
      promis depuis si longtemps."

One of the most curious articles in this catalogue, copies of which may be obtained from the
London Agent for the sale, Mr. Nutt, of the Strand, is No. 1965, a copy of Lilly's Sixe Court
Comedies, which had belonged to Oliver Cromwell, and appears to contain his autograph.

There are few literary men who have not, in the course of some one or other of their inquiries,
experienced the difficulty there is in procuring copies of pamphlets which being for the most
part originally published for purposes of temporary interest, are rarely preserved by binding,
and consequently when afterwards wanted become extremely difficult of attainment. We all remember
the valuable Catalogue published many years since by Mr. Rodd, of Newport Street, the father
of Mr. Thomas Rodd, and have often regretted the loss of our copy of that extensive collection;
and we record now for the information of our readers the publication by Mr. Russell Smith,
of 4. Old Compton Street, of Part I. of a Catalogue of a singular and unique collection of
25,000 ancient and modern Tracts and Pamphlets: containing I. Biography, Literary History,
and Criticism; II. Trials, Civil and Criminal; III. Bibliography and Typography; IV. Heraldry
and Family History; V. Archæology; VI. Architecture, Painting, and Sculpture; VII. Music; VIII.
Metaphysics.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES STILL ON OUR LIST.

                                                            NO.   PAGE
  The Times, Chronicle, and Herald, when first established   I.     7
  Lord Chatham's Speech on American Stamp Act, Notes of      I.    12
  Dorne, the Bookseller                                      I.    12
  Henno Rusticus                                             I.    12
  The Signe of the End                                       I.    20
  Lines in the style of Suckling                            II.    20
  Pedlar's Song, attributed to Shakspeare, and
    Tradition respecting Hamlet                             II.    23
  Sir William Skipwith                                      II.    23
  Thistle of Scotland                                       II.    24
  Sermones Sancti Borromæi                                  II.    27
  Luther and Erasmus, Lines on                              II.    27
  Tower Royal                                               II.    28
  Constitution Hill                                         II.    28
  Countess of Pembroke's Letter                             II.    28
  Tennison's Sermon on Nell Gwynne                          II.    28
  Colley Cibber's Apology                                   II.    29
  White Gloves at Maiden Assizes                            II.    29
  Flemish Account                                            I.     8
  Grog, Origin of Word                                      II.    28
  Bishop Barnaby, why Lady-birds so called                  II. Trevecka, 1779.

BUDDEN'S DISCOURSE FOR PARENT'S HONOUR AND AUTHORITIE. 8vo. 1616.

THE TWO WOLVES IN LAMB'S SKINS, OR OLD ELI'S LAMENTATIONS OVER HIS TWO SONS. 8vo. 1716.

AVERELL'S FOUR NOTABLE HISTORIES, ETC. 4to. 1590.

NATURE, A POEM. Folio. 1736.

BARNEFIELD'S PLOWMAN'S COMPLAINT. 4to. 1580.

GILL'S INSTRUCTION FOR CHILDREN, in Verse. 1709.

JERMIN'S FATHER'S INSTITUTION OF HIS CHILD. 1658.

COOPER'S (C.P.) ACCOUNT OF THE MOST IMPORTANT PUBLIC RECORDS. 8vo. 1832.--The First Volume of.

PASSIONAEL EFTE DAT LEVENT DER HELLIGEN. Folio. Basil. MDXXII.

LIVY.--Vol. I. of Crevier's Edition. 6 vols. 4to. Paris. 1739.

       *       *       *       *       *

PASQUIN will find his suggestion attended to very shortly.

COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED--W.B.B.--E.H.--R.V.--Philo.--J.B.-- Philobiblion.--J.M.W.--W.--Anglo
Cambrian (with many thanks for his excellent suggestion).--A.T.--Odo.--J. Miland--L.--G.J.K.--Melanion.

CONTENTS AND INDEX.--Our correspondents will see that their wish for a Table of Contents to
each number has been complied with. We are fully aware how much the value of a work like "NOTES
AND QUERIES" is enhanced by a good INDEX. It is intended to give a very copious one at the
end of each volume, so as to make the work one not merely of temporary interest, but of permanent
utility.

We have received many complaints of a difficulty in procuring our paper. The result is a correction
of many errors, in addition of much new information, and a better general view of our strictly
legal history than any other jurist, historian, or biographer had hitherto attempted to give."--Examiner.

LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS.

       *       *       *       *       *{47}

SIX DAYS SALE of the First Portion of the Extensive and Valuable STOCK OF BOOKS of the late
eminent Bookseller, Mr. Thos. Rodd, of Great Newport Street.

May be viewed four days prior to the sale and catalogues had.

UNIVERSITY PRESS, OXFORD

Books recently Published.

A GREEK-ENGLISH LEXICON, based on the German work of F. Passow, by Henry George Liddell, M.A.,
and Robert Scott, M.A. Third editions, crown 4to. 2l. 4s. in boards; 2l. 12s. 6d. in Russia.

A LEXICON, chiefly for the use of Schools, abridges from the Greek-English Lexicon of H.G.
Liddell, M.A., and R. Scott, M.A., Third edition, square 12mo. 7s. 6d. in boards; 9s. bound.

GRÆCÆ GRAMMATICÆ Rudiments in usum Scholarum. Seventh Edition, 12mo. 3s. 6d. in boards; 4s. bound.

APSINIS ET LONGINI RHETORICA e Codicibus MSS., adhibita Supellectili Ruhukeniana recensuit
Joh. Bakius. 8vo. 6s. 6d. in boards.

DEMOSTHENES ex recensione G. Dindorfii. Vols. I.--IV. 8vo. Textus. 2l. 2s. in boards. Vols.
V. VI. VII. Annotationes Interpretum. 1l. 16s. 6d. in boards.

ETYMOLOGICON MAGNUM seu verius Lexicon sæpissime vocabulorum origines indagans ex pluribus
Lexicis Scholiastis Grammaticis anonymi cujusdam Opera concinnatum. Ad Codd. MSS. recensuit
et notis variorum instruxit T. Gaisford, S.T.P. Folio. 3l. 3s. in boards; 4l. bound.

RELIQUIÆ SACRÆ, secundi tertiique sæculi. Ad codices MSS recensuit notisque illustravit Martinus
Josephus Routh, S.T.P. collegii S. Magdalenæ Oxon. Præses. Second Edition. Vol. V. 8vo. 9s.
in boards.

SOPHOCLIS Tragoediæ et Fragmenta, ex recensione et cum notis G. Dindorfii. Third Edition, 2
vols. 8vo. 13s. in boards.

VETUS TESTAMENTUM ex Versione Septuaginta Interpretum, secundum Exemplar Vaticanum Romæ editum.
Accedit potior varietas codicis Alexandrini. 3 vols. 12mo. 13s. 6d. in boards.

NOVUM TESTAMENTUM GRÆCUM Accedunt parallela S. Scripturæ loca, necnon vetus capitulorum notatio
et canones Eusebii, 18mo, 4s. 6d. in boards.

The above 4 volumes neatly bound uniform, in old style 1l. 12s. 7s. {48}

CLARENDON'S HISTORY OF THE REBELLION AND CIVIL WARS IN ENGLAND, together with an Historical
View of the Affairs in Ireland, now for the first time carefully printed from the original
MS. preserved in the Bodleian Library. To which are subjoined the Notes of Bishop Warburton.
7 vols. 8vo. 2l. 10s. in boards.

BISHOP JEWEL'S WORKS. By Rev. R.W. JELF, D.D. A New Edition. 8 vols. 8vo. 3l. 12s. in boards.

PEARSON'S EXPOSITION OF THE CREED. Revised and corrected by the Rev. E. BURTON, D.D. A New
Edition, 2 vols. 8vo. 10s. in boards.

THREE PRIMERS put forth in the reign of King Henry the Eighth. A New Edition. 8vo. 9s. in boards.

SHUCKFORD'S SACRED AND PROFANE HISTORY OF THE WORLD CONNECTED. A New Edition. 2 vols. 8vo.
16s. in boards. Paternoster Row.

Post 8vo. Cloth. 10s. 6d.

THE HISTORY OF JUNIUS AND HIS WORKS, and a Review of the Controversy respecting Junius, with
an Appendix, containing Portraits and Sketches, by Junius, selected from the Letters. By JOHN
JAQUES.

    "This is a very able book; well arranged in its plan, and complete
    in its matter. To those who are interested in the controversy, or
    even to any readers of Junius who wish for further information
    than the common editions furnish, we strongly recommend this
    volume. They will find it full, without being overcharged; and
    it possesses an advantage even over Woodfall's edition, in only
    containing what is essential to the point, besides exhibiting much
    which does not appear in that elaborate publication. The 'History
    of Junius and his Works' is an essential companion to the 'Letters
    of Junius.'"--Spectator, March 4. 1843.

Now ready, royal 4to, price 2l. 2s.

EXAMPLE OF ANCIENT PULPITS EXISTING IN ENGLAND. Selected and drawn from Sketches and Measurements
taken on the Spot, with Descriptive Letter-press. By FRANCIS T. DOLLMAN, Architect.

This work contains 30 Quarto Plates, three of which are highly finished in colours, restored
accurately from the existing indications. The Pulpits delineated are: St. Westburga, Chester;
SS. Peter and Paul, Shrewsbury; St. Michael, Coventry; St. Mary, Wendon; St. Mary and All Saints,
Fotheringay; All Saints, North Cerney; Holy Trinity, Nailsea; St. Peter, Winchcombe; St. John
Baptist, Cirencester; St. Mary, Totness; St. Mary, Frampton; Holy Trinity, Old Aston; St. Benedict,
Glastonbury; St. Peter, Wolverhampton; St. Andrew, Cheddar (coloured); St. Andrew, Banwell;
St. George, Brokworth; Holy Trinity, Long Sutton (coloured); St. Saviour, Dartmouth (coloured);
All Saints, Sudbury; All Saints, Hawstead; St. Mary de Lode, Gloucester; St. Mary, North Petherton.

Royal 4to, cloth, Vol. I. price 3l. 13s. 6d.

GOTHIC ORNAMENTS; being a Series of Examples of Enriched Details and Accessories of the Architecture
of Great Britain. Drawn from existing Authorities. By JAMES K. COLLING, Architect.

The particular object of this work is "to exhibit such a number of examples of foliage and
other ornamental details of the different styles as clearly to elucidate the characteristic
features peculiar to each period; and drawn sufficiently large in scale to be practically useful
in facilitating the labours of the Architect and Artist."

The first volume consists of 104 plates, 19 of which are highly finished in colours. The second
volume, which will complete the work, is now in progress, and will be finished during 1850.

2 vols. fcap. 8vo, with 240 Figures, price 16s.

ON THE HISTORY AND ART OF WARMING AND VENTILATING Rooms and Buildings by Open Fires, Hypocausts,
German, Dutch, Russia, and Swedish Stoves, Steam, Hot Water, Heated Air, Heat of Animals, and
other methods; with Notices of the progress of Personal and Fireside Comfort, and of the management
of Fuel. By WALTER BERNAN, Civil Engineer.

    "Since Stuart's 'Anecdotes of the Steam Engine,' there has been no
    such bit of delicious mechanical gossip as this little book of Mr.
    Bernan.... For six months or more every year, we must depend much
    more on the resources of science and the practical arts for our
    health and comfort, than on the natural climate: in short, we
    must create our own climate. To help us to the means of doing
    this appears to be one of the objects of these little volumes, in
    which, as we have shown, are collected a multitude of expedients
    of all times and nations, collected with research, selected with
    judgment, and skilfully arranged and described. The interest
    with which one reads is sustained and continuous, and you devour
    a two-volume inventory of stoves, grates, and ovens, with the
    voracity of a parish school-boy, and then--ask for more."--The
    Athenæum. 1849.

