THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS

CONTENTS

American Tract Society, The Ann Potter's Lesson Asirvadam the Brahmin Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table,
The Autocrat's Landlady, A Visit to the Autocrat, The, gives a Breakfast to the Public

Birds of the Garden and Orchard, The Birds of the Pasture and Forest, The Bulls and Bears Bundle
of Irish Pennants, A

Catacombs of Rome, The Catacombs of Rome, Note to the Chesuncook Colin Clout and the Faery
Queen Crawford and Sculpture

Daphnaides, Denslow Palace, The Dot and Line Alphabet, The

Eloquence Evening with the Telegraph-Wires, An

Farming Life in New England Faustus, Doctor, The German Popular Legend of

Gaucho, The Great Event of the Century, The

Her Grace, the Drummer's Daughter Hour before Dawn, The

Ideal Tendency, The Illinois in Spring-time

Jefferson, Thomas

Kinloch Estate, The

Language of the Sea, The Leibnitz, Gottfried Wilhelm von Letter-Writing Loo Loo

Mademoiselle's Campaigns Metempsychosis Minister's Wooing, The Miss Wimple's Hoop

New World, The, and the New Man

Obituary Old Well, The Our Talks with Uncle John

Perilous Bivouac, A Physical Courage Pintal Pocket-Celebration of the Fourth, The President's
Prophecy of Peace, The Prisoner of War, A Punch

Railway-Engineering in the United States Rambles in Aquidneck Romance of a Glove, The

Salons de Paris, Les Sample of Consistency, A Singing-Birds and their Songs, The Songs of the
Sea Subjective of it, The Suggestions

Three of Us

Water-Lilies What are we going to make? Whirligig of Time, The

Youth

POETRY

All's Well

Beatrice Birth-Mark, The "Bringing our Sheaves with us"

Cantatrice, La Cup, The

Dead House, The Discoverer of the North Cape, The

Evening Melody, An

Fifty and Fifteen

House that was just like its Neighbors, The

Jolly Mariner, The

Keats, the Poet

Last Look, The

Marais du Cygne, Le My Children Myrtle Flowers

Nature and the Philosopher November November.--April

Shipwreck Skater, The Spirits in Prison Swan-Song of Parson Avery, The

Telegraph, The To ----- Trustee's Lament, The

Waldeinsamkeit "Washing of the Feet," The, on Holy Thursday, in St. Peter's What a Wretched
Woman said to me Work and Rest

LITERARY NOTICES.

American Cyclopedia, The New Annual Obituary Notices, by N. Crosby Aquarium, The, by P. H. Gosse

Belle Brittan on a Tour Bigelow, Jacob, Brief Expositions of Rational Medicine by Black's Atlas
of North America

Chapman's American Drawing-Book Church and Congregation, The, by C. A. Bartel Crosby's Annual
Obituary, for 1857 Curiosities of Literature, by Disraeli Cyclopedia of Drawing, The, by W.
E. Worthen Cyclopaedia, The New American

Dana's Household Book of Poetry Disraeli's Curiosities of Literature Drawing-Book, The American,
by J.G. Chapman Drawing, The Cyclopedia of

Ewbank, Thomas, Thoughts on Matter and Force by Exiles of Florida, The, by J. E. Giddings

Fitch, John, Westcott's Life of

Giddings, Joshua R., The Exiles of Florida by Goadby, Henry, A Text-Book of Animal and Vegetable
Physiology by Gray's Botanical Series

Household Book of Poetry, by C. A. Dana

Inductive Sciences, History of the, by Whewell

Journey due North, A, by G. A. Sala

Kingsley, Charles, Sir Walter Raleigh and his Time, with other Papers by

Library of Old Authors Life beneath the Waters

New Priest in Conception Bay, The

Pascal, Etudes sur, par M. Victor Cousin Pellico, Silvio, Lettres de Physiology, Animal and
Vegetable, by Henry Goadby Poe's Poetical Works

Raleigh, Sir Walter, and his Time, with other Papers, by C. Kingsley Rational Medicine, Brief
Expositions of, by Jacob Bigelow Robertson, Rev. F. W., Sermons by

Sea-Shore, Common Objects of the, by J. G. Wood Stephenson, George, Smiles's Life of Summer
Time in the Country

Thoughts on Matter and Force, by Thomas Ewbank

Vocabularies, A Volume of, by T. Wright

Webster, John, Dramatic Works of Whewell's History of the Inductive Sciences Wright, Thomas,
A Volume of Vocabularies by

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

VOL. II.--JUNE, 1858.--NO. VIII.

CHESUNCOOK.

At 5 P.M., September 13th, 185-, I left Boston in the steamer for Bangor by the outside course.
It was a warm and still night,--warmer, probably, on the water than on the land,--and the sea
was as smooth as a small lake in summer, merely rippled. The passengers went singing on the
deck, as in a parlor, till ten o'clock. We passed a vessel on her beam-ends on a rock just
outside the islands, and some of us thought that she was the "rapt ship" which ran

    "on her side so low
  That she drank water, and her keel ploughed air,"

not considering that there was no wind, and that she was under bare poles. Now we have left
the islands behind and are off Nahant. We behold those features which the discoverers saw,
apparently unchanged. Now we see the Cape Ann lights, and now pass near a small village-like
fleet of mackerel fishers at anchor, probably off Gloucester. They salute us with a shout from
their low decks; but I understand their "Good evening", to mean, "Don't run against me, Sir."
From the wonders of the deep we go below to get deeper sleep. And then the absurdity of being
waked up in the night by a man who wants the job of blacking your boots! It is more inevitable
than seasickness, and may have something to do with it. It is like the ducking you get on crossing
the line the first time. I trusted that these old customs were abolished. They might with the
same propriety insist on blacking your face. I heard of one man who complained that somebody
had stolen his boots in the night; and when he found them, he wanted to know what they had
done to them,--they had spoiled them,-- he never put that stuff on them; and the boot-black
narrowly escaped paying damages.

Anxious to get out of the whale's belly, I rose early, and joined some old salts, who were
smoking by a dim light on a sheltered part of the deck. We were just getting into the river.
They knew all about it, of course. I was proud to find that I had stood the voyage so well,
and was not in the least digested. We brushed up and watched the first signs of dawn through
an open port; but the day seemed to hang fire. We inquired the time; none of my companions
had a chronometer. At length an African prince rushed by, observing, "Twelve o'clock, gentlemen!"
and blew out the light. It was moon-rise. So I slunk down into the monster's bowels again.

The first land we make is Manheigan Island, before dawn, and next St. George's Islands, seeing
two or three lights. Whitehead, with its bare rocks and funereal bell, is interesting. Next
I remember that the Camden Hills attracted my eyes, and afterward the hills about Frankfort.
We reached Bangor about noon.

When I arrived, my companion that was to be had gone up river, and engaged an Indian, Joe Aitteon,
a son of the Governor, to go with us to Chesuncook Lake. Joe had conducted two white men a-moose-hunting
in the same direction the year before. He arrived by cars at Bangor that evening, with his
canoe and a companion, Sabattis Solomon, who was going to leave Bangor the following Monday
with Joe's father, by way of the Penobscot, and join Joe in moose-hunting at Chesuncook, when
we had done with him. They took supper at my friend's house and lodged in his barn, saying
that they should fare worse than that in the woods. They only made Watch bark a little, when
they came to the door in the night for water, for he does not like Indians.

The next morning Joe and his canoe were put on board the stage for Moosehead Lake, sixty and
odd miles distant, an hour before we started in an open wagon. We carried hard bread, pork,
smoked beef, tea, sugar, etc., seemingly enough for a regiment; the sight of which brought
together reminded me by what ignoble means we had maintained our ground hitherto. We went by
the Avenue Road, which is quite straight and very good, north-westward toward Moosehead Lake,
through more than a dozen flourishing towns, with almost every one its academy,--not one of
which, however, is on my General Atlas, published, alas! in 1824; so much are they before the
age, or I behind it! The earth must have been considerably lighter to the shoulders of General
Atlas then.

It rained all this day and till the middle of the next forenoon, concealing the landscape almost
entirely; but we had hardly got out of the streets of Bangor before I began to be exhilarated
by the sight of the wild fir and spruce tops, and those of other primitive evergreens, peering
through the mist in the horizon. It was like the sight and odor of cake to a schoolboy. He
who rides and keeps the beaten track studies the fences chiefly. Near Bangor, the fence-posts,
on account of the frost's heaving them in the clayey soil, were not planted in the ground,
but were mortised into a transverse horizontal beam lying on the surface. Afterwards, the prevailing
fences were log ones, with sometimes a Virginia fence, or else rails slanted over crossed stakes,--and
these zigzagged or played leap-frog all the way to the lake, keeping just ahead of us. After
getting out of the Penobscot Valley, the country was unexpectedly level, or consisted of very
even and equal swells, for twenty or thirty miles, never rising above the general level, but
affording, it is said, a very good prospect in clear weather, with frequent views of Katadin,--
straight roads and long hills. The houses were far apart, commonly small and of one story,
but framed. There was very little land under cultivation, yet the forest did not often border
the road. The stumps were frequently as high as one's head, showing the depth of the snows.
The white hay-caps, drawn over small stacks of beans or corn in the fields, on account of the
rain, were a novel sight to me. We saw large flocks of pigeons, and several times came within
a rod or two of partridges in the road. My companion said, that, in one journey out of Bangor,
he and his son had shot sixty partridges from his buggy. The mountain-ash was now very handsome,
as also the wayfarer's-tree or hobble-bush, with its ripe purple berries mixed with red. The
Canada thistle, an introduced plant, was the prevailing weed all the way to the lake,--the
road-side in many places, and fields not long cleared, being densely filled with it as with
a crop, to the exclusion of everything else. There were also whole fields full of ferns, now
rusty and withering, which in older countries are commonly confined to wet ground. There were
very few flowers, even allowing for the lateness of the season. It chanced that I saw no asters
in bloom along the road for fifty miles, though they were so abundant then in Massachusetts,--except
in one place one or two of the aster acuminatus,--and no golden-rods till within twenty miles
of Monson, where I saw a three-ribbed one. There were many late buttercups, however, and the
two fire-weeds, erechthites and epilobium, commonly where there had been a burning, and at
last the pearly everlasting. I noticed occasionally very long troughs which supplied the road
with water, and my companion said that three dollars annually were granted by the State to
one man in each school-district, who provided and maintained a suitable water-trough by the
road-side, for the use of travellers,--a piece of intelligence as refreshing to me as the water
itself. That legislature did not sit in vain. It was an Oriental act, which made me wish that
I was still farther down East,--another Maine law, which I hope we may get in Massachusetts.
That State is banishing bar-rooms from its highways, and conducting the mountain-springs thither.

The country was first decidedly mountainous in Garland, Sangerville, and onwards, twenty-five
or thirty miles from Bangor. At Sangerville, where we stopped at mid-afternoon to warm and
dry ourselves, the landlord told us that he had found a wilderness where we found him. At a
fork in the road between Abbot and Monson, about twenty miles from Moosehead Lake, I saw a
guide-post surmounted by a pair of moose-horns, spreading four or five feet, with the word
"Monson" painted on one blade, and the name of some other town on the other. They are sometimes
used for ornamental hat-trees, together with deers' horns, in front entries; but, after the
experience which I shall relate, I trust that I shall have a better excuse for killing a moose
than that I may hang my hat on his horns. We reached Monson, fifty miles from Bangor, and thirteen
from the lake, after dark.

At four o'clock the next morning, in the dark, and still in the rain, we pursued our journey.
Close to the academy in this town they have erected a sort of gallows for the pupils to practise
on. I thought that they might as well hang at once all who need to go through such exercises
in so new a country, where there is nothing to hinder their living an outdoor life. Better
omit Blair, and take the air. The country about the south end of the lake is quite mountainous,
and the road began to feel the effects of it. There is one hill which, it is calculated, it
takes twenty-five minutes to ascend. In many places the road was in that condition called repaired,
having just been whittled into the required semi-cylindrical form with the shovel and scraper,
with all the softest inequalities in the middle, like a hog's back with the bristles up, and
Jehu was expected to keep astride of the spine. As you looked off each side of the bare sphere
into the horizon, the ditches were awful to behold,--a vast hollowness, like that between Saturn
and his ring. At a tavern hereabouts the hostler greeted our horse as an old acquaintance,
though he did not remember the driver. He said that he had taken care of that little mare for
a short time, a year or two before, at the Mount Kineo House, and thought she was not in as
good condition as then. Every man to his trade. I am not acquainted with a single horse in
the world, not even the one that kicked me.

Already we had thought that we saw Moosehead Lake from a hill-top, where an extensive fog filled
the distant lowlands, but we were mistaken. It was not till we were within a mile or two of
its south end that we got our first view of it,--a suitably wild-looking sheet of water, sprinkled
with small low islands, which were covered with shaggy spruce and other wild wood,--seen over
the infant port of Greenville, with mountains on each side and far in the north, and a steamer's
smoke-pipe rising above a roof. A pair of moose-horns ornamented a corner of the public-house
where we left our horse, and a few rods distant lay the small steamer Moosehead, Captain King.
There was no village, and no summer road any farther in this direction,--but a winter road,
that is, one passable only when deep snow covers its inequalities, from Greenville up the east
side of the lake to Lily Bay, about twelve miles.

I was here first introduced to Joe. He had ridden all the way on the outside of the stage the
day before, in the rain, giving way to ladies, and was well wetted. As it still rained, he
asked if we were going to "put it through." He was a good-looking Indian, twenty-four years
old, apparently of unmixed blood, short and stout, with a broad face and reddish complexion,
and eyes, methinks, narrower and more turned-up at the outer corners than ours, answering to
the description of his race. Beside his under-clothing, he wore a red flannel shirt, woollen
pants, and a black Kossuth hat, the ordinary dress of the lumberman, and, to a considerable
extent, of the Penobscot Indian. When, afterward, he had occasion to take off his shoes and
stockings, I was struck with the smallness of his feet. He had worked a good deal as a lumberman,
and appeared to identify himself with that class. He was the only one of the party who possessed
an India-rubber jacket. The top strip or edge of his canoe was worn nearly through by friction
on the stage.

At eight o'clock, the steamer with her bell and whistle, scaring the moose, summoned us on
board. She was a well-appointed little boat, commanded by a gentlemanly captain, with patent
life-seats, and metallic life-boat, and dinner on board, if you wish. She is chiefly used by
lumberers for the transportation of themselves, their boats, and supplies, but also by hunters
and tourists. There was another steamer, named Amphitrite, laid up close by; but, apparently,
her name was not more trite than her hull. There were also two or three large sail-boats in
port. These beginnings of commerce on a lake in the wilderness are very interesting,--these
larger white birds that come to keep company with the gulls. There were but few passengers,
and not one female among them: a St. Francis Indian, with his canoe and moose-hides, two explorers
for lumber, three men who landed at Sandbar Island, and a gentleman who lives on Deer Island,
eleven miles up the lake, and owns also Sugar Island, between which and the former the steamer
runs; these, I think, were all beside ourselves. In the saloon was some kind of musical instrument,
cherubim or seraphim, to soothe the angry waves; and there, very properly, was tacked up the
map of the public lands of Maine and Massachusetts, a copy of which I had in my pocket.

The heavy rain confining us to the saloon awhile, I discoursed with the proprietor of Sugar
Island on the condition of the world in Old Testament times. But at length, leaving this subject
as fresh as we found it, he told me that he had lived about this lake twenty or thirty years,
and yet had not been to the head of it for twenty-one years. He faces the other way. The explorers
had a fine new birch on board, larger than ours, in which they had come up the Piscataquis
from Howland, and they had had several messes of trout already. They were going to the neighborhood
of Eagle and Chamberlain Lakes, or the head-waters of the St. John, and offered to keep us
company as far as we went. The lake to-day was rougher than I found the ocean, either going
or returning, and Joe remarked that it would swamp his birch. Off Lily Bay it is a dozen miles
wide, but it is much broken by islands. The scenery is not merely wild, but varied and interesting;
mountains were seen, farther or nearer, on all sides but the north-west, their summits now
lost in the clouds; but Mount Kineo is the principal feature of the lake, and more exclusively
belongs to it. After leaving Greenville, at the foot, which is the nucleus of a town some eight
or ten years old, you see but three or four houses for the whole length of the lake, or about
forty miles, three of them the public-houses at which the steamer is advertised to stop, and
the shore is an unbroken wilderness. The prevailing wood seemed to be spruce, fir, birch, and
rock-maple. You could easily distinguish the hard wood from the soft, or "black growth," as
it is called, at a great distance,--the former being smooth, round-topped, and light green,
with a bowery and cultivated look.

