"I have nothing more to say to you, Mr. Potts," Valerie replied. She had, unseeingly, taken
up her pen again and, with a gesture habitual to her, was drawing squares and crosses on the
blotter under her hand. The lines trembled. The angles of the squares would not meet.

"But I have still something to say to you, Mrs. Upton," said Mr. Potts; "I have still to say
to you that, much as you have shocked and pained us in the past, you have never so shocked
and pained us as now. We had hoped for better things in you,--wider lights, deeper insights,
the unsealing of your eyes to error and wrong in yourself; we had hoped that sorrow would work
its sacred discipline and that, with your daughter's hand to guide you, you were preparing
to follow, from however far a distance, in the footsteps of him who is gone. This must count
for us, always, as a dark day of life, when we have seen a human soul turn wilfully from the
good held out to it and choose deliberately the evil. I speak for myself and for Mrs. Potts--and
in sorrow rather than in wrath, Mrs. Upton. I say nothing of your daughter; I bow my head before
that sacred filial grief. I--"

But here, suddenly, quiet, swift, irresistible as a flame, Jack rose from his place. It seemed
one suave, unbroken motion, that by which he laid a hand on Mr. Potts's shoulder, a hand on
Mrs. Potts's shoulder--she had risen in wonder and alarm at the menacing descent upon her lord--laid
a hand on each, swept them to the door, opened it, swept them out, and shut the door upon them.
Then he turned and leaned upon it, his arms folded.

"Perhaps, Jack, you wish to put me out, too," said Imogen in a voice of ice and fire. "Your
arguments are conclusive. I hope that mama approves her champion."

Valerie now seemed to lean heavily on the table; she rested her forehead on her hand, covering
her eyes.

"Have you anything to say to me, mama, before Jack executes his justice on me?" Imogen asked.

"Spare me, Imogen," her mother answered.

"Have you spared me?" said Imogen. "Have you spared my father? What right have you to ask for
mercy? You are a cruel, a shallow, a selfish woman, and you break my heart as you broke his.
Now Jack, you need not put me out. I will go of myself."

When Jack had closed the door on her, he still stood leaning against it at a distance from
Valerie. He saw that she wept, bitterly and uncontrollably; but, at first, awed by her grief,
he did not dare approach her. It was only when the sobs were quieted that he went and stood
near her.

"You were right, right," he almost whispered.

She did not answer, and wept on as if there could be no consolation for her in such rightness.

"It had to come," said Jack; "she had to be made to understand. And--you are right."

She was not thinking of herself. "Oh, Jack Jack," she spoke at last, putting out her hand to
his and grasping it tightly "How I have hurt her. Poor Imogen;--my poor, poor child."

XX

Imogen hardly knew where she went, or how, when she left her mother--her mother and Jack--and
darted from the house on the wings of a supreme indignation, a supreme despair. Her sense of
fitness was not that of Mr. Potts, and she knew that her father's biography was doomed. Against
her mother's wish it could not, with any grace, any dignity, be published. Mr. Potts would
put forth appreciation of his departed chief in the small, grandiloquent review to which he
contributed--he had only delayed because of the greater project--but such a tribute would be
a sealing of public failure rather than the kindling of public recognition. Already her father,
by that larger public, was forgotten--forgotten; Mr. Potts would not make him remembered.

The word "forgotten" seemed like the beat of dark, tragic wings, bearing her on and on. The
fire of a bitter wrong burned in her. And it was not the sense of personal wrong--though that
was fierce,--that made her flight so blind and headlong--not her mother's cruelty nor Jack's
sinister espousal of the cause he saw as evil; it was this final, this culminating wrong to
her father. His face rose before her, while she fled, the deep, dark eyes dwelling with persistence
on her as though they asked,--she seemed to hear the very words and in his very voice:--"What
have they done to me, little daughter? Did I deserve this heaping of dust upon my name;--and
from her hands?"

For it was that. Dust, the dust of indifferent time, of cold-hearted oblivion, was drifting
over him, hiding his smile, his eyes, his tears. It seemed to mount, to suffocate her, as she
ran, this dust, strewn by her mother's hand. Even in her own heart she had known the parching
of its drifting fall, known that crouching doubts--not of him, never of him--but of his greatness,
had lurked in ambush since her mother had come home;--known that the Pottses and their fitness
had never before been so clearly seen for the little that they were since her mother--and all
that her mother had brought--had come into her life. And, before this drifting of dust upon
her faith in her father's greatness, her heart, all that was deepest in it, broke into a greater
trust, a greater love, sobs beneath it. He was not great, perhaps, as the world counted greatness;
but he was good, good,--he was sorrowful and patient. He loved her as no one had ever loved
her. His ideals were hers and her love was his. Dust might lie on his tomb; but never, never,
in her heart.

"Ah, it's cruel! cruel! cruel!" she panted, as she ran, ran, up the rocky, woodland path, leaping
from ledge to ledge, slipping on the silky moss, falling now and then on hands and knees, but
not pausing or faltering until she reached the murmuring pine-woods, the grassy, aromatic glades
where the mountain-laurel grew.

Pallid, disheveled, with tragic, unseeing eyes and parted lips--the hollowed eyes, the sorrowful
lips of a classic mask--she rushed from the shadows of the mountain--path into this place of
sunlight and solitude. A doomed, distraught Antigone.

And so she looked to Sir Basil, who, his back against a warm rock, a cigarette in one lazy
hand, was outstretched there before her on the moss, a bush of flowering laurel at his head,
and, at his feet, beyond tree-tops, the steep, far blue of the lower world. He was gazing placidly
at this view, empty of thought and even of conscious appreciation, wrapped in a balmy contentment,
when, with the long, deep breath of a hunted deer, Imogen leaped from darkness into light,
and her face announced such disaster that, casting aside the cigarette, springing to his feet,
he seized her by the arms, thinking that she might fall before him. And indeed she would have
cast herself face downward on the grass had he not been there; and she leaned forward on his
supporting hands, speechless, breathing heavily, borne down by the impetus of her headlong
run. Then, her face hidden from him as she leaned, she burst into sobs.

"Miss Upton!--Imogen!--My dear child!--" said Sir Basil, in a crescendo of distress and solicitude.

She leaned there on his hands weeping so bitterly and so helplessly that he finished his phrase
by putting an arm around her, and so more effectually supporting her, so satisfying, also,
his own desire to comfort and caress her.

The human touch, the human tenderness--though him she hardly realized--drew her grief to articulateness.
"Oh--my father!--my father!--Oh--what have they done to you!" she gasped, leaning her forehead
against Sir Basil's shoulder.

"Your father?" Sir Basil repeated soothingly, since this departed personality seemed a menace
that might easily be dealt with, "What is it? What have they done? How can I help you? My dear
child, do treat me as a friend. Do tell me what is the matter."

"It's mama! mama!--she has broken my heart--as she broke his," sobbed Imogen, finding her former
words. Already, such was the amazing irony of events, Sir Basil seemed, more than anyone in
the world, to take that dead father's place, to help her in her grief over him. The puzzle
of it inflicted a deeper pang. "I can't tell you," she sobbed. "But I can never, never forgive
her!"

"Forgive your mother?" Sir Basil repeated, shocked. "Don't, I beg of you, speak so. It's some
misunderstanding."

"No!--No!--It is understanding--it is the whole understanding! It has come out at last--the
truth--the dreadful truth."

"But can't you tell me? can't you explain?"

She lifted her face and drew away from him as she said, pressing her handkerchief to her eyes:
"You never knew him. You cannot care for him--no one who cares, as much as you do, for her,--can
ever care for him."

Sir Basil had deeply flushed. He led her to the sunny rock and made her sit down on a low ledge,
where she leaned forward, her face in her hands, long sighs of exhaustion succeeding her tears.
"I know nothing about your father, as you say, and I do care, very much, for your mother,"
said Sir Basil after a little while. "But I care for you, very much, too."

"Ah, but you could never care for me so much as to think her wrong."

"I don't know about that. Why not?--if she is wrong. One often thinks people one is fond of
very wrong. Do you know," and Sir Basil now sat down beside her, a little lower, on the moss,
"do you know you'll make me quite wretched if you won't have confidence in me. I really can't
stand seeing you suffer and not know what it's about. I don't--I can't feel myself such a stranger
as that. Won't you think of me," he took one of her hands and held it as he said this, "won't
you think of me as, well, as a sort of affectionate old brother, you know? I want to be trusted,
and to see if I can't help you. Don't be afraid," he added, "of being disloyal--of making me
care less, you know, for your mother, by anything you say; for you wouldn't."

Leaning there, her face hidden, while she half heard him, it struck her suddenly, a shaft of
light in darkness, that, indeed, he might help her. She dropped her hand to look at him and,
with all its tear-stained disfigurement, he thought that he had never seen anything more heavenly
than that look. It sought, it sounded him, pleaded with and caressed him. And, with all its
solemnity, there dawned in it a tenderness deeper than any that he had ever seen in her.

"I do trust you," she said. "I think of you as a near, a dear friend. And, since you promise
me that it will change you in nothing, I will tell you. I believe that perhaps you can help
us,--my father and me. You must count me with him, you know, always. We want to write a life
of him, Mr. Potts and I. Mr. Potts--you may have seen it--is an ordinary person, ordinary but
for one thing, one great and beautiful thing that papa and I always felt in him,--and that
beautiful thing is his depth of unselfish devotion to great causes and to good people. He worked
for my father like a faithful, loving dog. He had an accurate knowledge of all the activities
that papa's life was given to--all the ideals it aimed at and attained--yes, yes, attained,--whatever
they may say. He has a very skilful pen, and is in touch with the public press. So, though
I would, of course, have wished for a more adequate biographer, I was glad and proud to accept
his offer; and I would have overlooked, revised, everything. We felt,--and by we, I mean not
only Mr. and Mrs. Potts, but all his many, many friends, all those whose lives he loved and
helped and lifted--that we owed it to the world he served not to let his name fade from among
us. You cannot dream, Sir Basil, of what sort of man my father was. His life was one long devotion
to the highest things, one long service of the weak and oppressed, one long battle with the
wrong. Those who are incapable of following him to the heights can give you no true picture
of him. I will say nothing, in this respect, of mama, except that she could not follow him,--and
that she made him very, very unhappy, and with him, me. For I shared all his griefs. She left
us; she laughed at all the things we cared and worked for. My father never spoke bitterly of
her; his last words, almost, were for her, words of tenderness and pity and forgiveness. He
had the capacity that only great souls have, of love for littler natures. I say this much so
that you may know that any idea that you may have gathered of my father is, perforce, a garbled,
a false one. He was a noble, a wonderful man. Everything I am I owe to him."

Imogen had straightened herself, the traces of weeping almost gone, her own fluency, as was
usual with her, quieting her emotion, even while her own and her father's wrongs, thus objectivized
in careful phrases, made indignation at once colder and deeper. Her very effort to quell indignation,
to command her voice to an even justice of tone before this lover of her mother's, gave it
a resonant quality, curiously impressive. And, as she looked before her, down into the blue
profundities, the sense of her own sincerity seemed to pulse back to her from her silent listener,
and filled her with a growing consciousness of power over him.

"This morning," she took up her theme on that resonant note, deepened to a tragic pitch, "we
went to mama--Mr. Potts and I--to tell her of our project of commemoration, to ask her cooperation.
We wanted to be very generous with her, to take her help and her sympathy for granted. I should
have felt it an insult to my mother had I told Mr. Potts that we must carry on our work without
consulting her. She received us with cold indifference. She tried not to listen, when she heard
what our errand was. And her indifference became hostility, when she understood. All her old
hatred for what he was and meant, all her fundamental antagonism to the purpose of his life--and
to him--came at last, openly, to the light. She was forced to reveal herself. Not only has
she no love, no reverence for him, but she cannot bear that others should learn to love him
and to reverence him. She sneered at his claim to distinction; she refused her consent to our
project. It is a terrible thing for me to say--but I must--and you will understand me--you
who will not care less for her because she is so wrong--what I feel most of all in her attitude
is a childish, yet a cruel, jealousy. She cannot endure that she should be so put into the
dark by the spreading of his light. The greater his radiance is shown to be, the more in the
wrong will all her life be proved;--it is that that she will not hear of. She wants him to
be obscure, undistinguished, negligible, because it's that that she has always thought him."

Sir Basil, while she spoke, had kept his eyes fixed on the hand he held, a beautiful hand,
white, curiously narrow, with pointed, upturned finger-tips. Once or twice a dull color rose
to his sunburned cheek, but in his well-balanced mind was a steady perception of what the filial
grief and pain must be from which certain words came. He could not resent them; it was inevitable
that a child who had so loved her father should so think and feel. And her self-control, her
accurate fluency, answered with him for her sincerity as emotion could not have done. Passion
would never carry this noble girl into overstatement. Fairness constrained him to admit, while
he listened, that dark color in his cheek, that her view of her father was more likely to be
right than her mother's view. An unhappily married woman was seldom fair. Mrs. Upton had never
mentioned her husband to him, never alluded to him except in most formal terms; but the facts
of her flight from the marital hearth, the fact that he had made her so unhappy, had been to
him sufficient evidence of Mr. Upton's general unworthiness. Now, though Imogen's tragic ardor
did not communicate any of her faith in her father's wonder or nobility, it did convince him
of past unfairness toward, no doubt, a most worthy man. Incompatibility, that had been the
trouble; he one of these reformer people, very much in earnest; and Mrs. Upton, dear and lovely
though she was, with not a trace of such enthusiasm in her moral make-up.

So, when Imogen had finished, though he sat silent for a little while, though beneath the steady
survey of what she put before him was a stirring of trouble, it was in a tone of quiet acceptance
that he at last said, looking up at her, "Yes; I quite see what you feel about it. To you,
of course, they must look like that, your mother's reasons. They must look very differently
to her, that goes without saying. We can't really make out these things, you know, these fundamental
antagonisms; I never knew it went as far as that. But I quite see. Poor child. I'm very sorry.
It is most awfully hard on you."

"Don't think of me!" Imogen breathed out on a note of pain. "It's not of myself I'm thinking,
not of my humiliation and despair--but of him!--of him!--Is it right that I should submit?
Ought a project like ours to be abandoned for such a reason?"

Again Sir Basil was silent for some moments, considering the narrow white hands. "Perhaps she'll
come round,--think better of it."

"Ah!--" it was now on a note of deep, of tremulous hope that she breathed it out, looking into
his eyes with the profound, searching look so moving to him; "Ah!--it's there, it's there,
that you could help me. She would never yield to me. She might to you."

"Oh, I don't think that likely," Sir Basil protested, the flush darkening.

"Yes, yes," said Imogen, leaning toward him above his clasp of her hand. "Yes, if anything
is likely that is so. If hope is anywhere, it's there. Don't you see, in her eyes I stand for
him. To yield to me would be like yielding to him, would be his triumph. That's what she can't
forgive in me--that I do stand for him, that I live by all that she rejected. She would never
yield to me,--but she might yield for you."

"Shall I speak to her about it?" Sir Basil asked abruptly, after another moment in which Imogen's
hand grasped his tightly, its soft, warm fingers more potent in appeal than even her eyes had
been. And now, again, she leaned toward him, her eyes inundating him with radiant trust and
gratitude, her hands drawing his hand to her breast and holding it there, so clasped.

"Will you?--Oh, will you?--dear Sir Basil."

Sir Basil stammered a little. "I'll have a try--It's hard on you, I think. I don't see why
you shouldn't have your heart's desire. It's an awfully queer thing to do,--but, for your sake,
I'll have a try--put it to her, you know."

"Ah, I knew that you were big," said Imogen.

He looked at her, his hand between her hands. The flowering laurel was behind her head. The
pine-forest murmured about them. The sky was blue above them, and the deep blue of the distance
lay at their feet. Suddenly, as they looked into each other's eyes, it dawned in the consciousness
of both that something was happening.

It was to Sir Basil that it was happening. Imogen's was but the consciousness of his experience.
Such a thing could hardly happen to Imogen. Neither her senses, nor her emotions, nor her imagination
played any dominant part in her nature. She was incapable of falling in love in the helpless,
headlong, human fashion that the term implies. But though such feeling lacked, the perception
of it in others was swift, and while she leaned to Sir Basil in the sunlight, while she clasped
his hand to her breast, while their eyes dwelt deeply on each other, she seemed to hear, like
a rising chime of wonder and delight, the ringing of herald bells that sang: "Mine--mine--mine--if
I choose to take him."

Wonderful indeed it was to feel this influx of certain power. Sunlight, like that about them,
seemed to rise, slowly, softly, within her, like the upwelling of a spring of joy.

It was happening, it had happened to him, his eyes told her that; but whether he knew as she
did she doubted and, for the beautiful moment, it added a last touch of charm to her exultation
to know that, while she was sure, she could leave that light veil of his wonder shimmering
between them.

With the vision of the unveiling her mind leaped to the thought of her mother and of Jack,
and with that thought came a swift pulse of vengeful gladness. So she would make answer to
them both--the scorner--the rejector. Not for a moment must she listen to the voices of petty
doubts and pities. This love, that lay like a bauble in her mother's hand--an unfit ornament
for her years--would shine on her own head like a diadem. Unasked, undreamed of, it had turned
to her; it was her highest duty to keep and wear it. It was far, far more than her duty to
herself; it was her duty to this man, finished, mature, yet full of unawakened possibility;
it was her duty to that large, vague world that his life touched, a world where her young faiths
and vigors would bring a light such as her mother's gay little taper could never spread. These
thoughts, and others, flashed through Imogen's mind, with the swiftness and exactitude of a
drowning vision. Yet, after the long moment of vivid realization, it was at its height that
a qualm, a sinking overtook her. The gift had come; of that she was sure. But its triumphant
displayal might be delayed--nay, might be jeopardized. Some perverse loyalty in his nature,
some terrified decisiveness of action on her mother's part, and the golden reality might even
be made to crumble. For one moment, as the qualm seized her, she saw herself--and the thought
was like a flying flame that scorched her lips as it passed--she saw herself sweeping aside
the veil, sinking upon his breast, with tears that would reveal him to himself and her to him.

But it was impossible for Imogen to yield open-eyed to temptation that could not be sanctified.
Her strong sense of personal dignity held her from the impulse, and a quick recognition, too,
that it might lower her starry altitude in his eyes. She must stand still, stand perfectly
still, and he would come to her. She could protect him from her mother's clinging--this she
recognized as a strange yet an insistent duty--but between him and her there must not be a
shadow, an ambiguity.

The radiance of the renunciation, the resolve, was in her face as she gently released his hand,
gently rose, standing smiling, with a strange, rapt smile, above him.

Sir Basil rose, too, silent, and looking hard at her. She guessed at the turmoil, the wonder
of his honest soul, his fear lest she did guess it, and, with the fear, the irrepressible hope
that, in some sense, it was echoed.

"My dear, dear friend," she said, putting her hand on his shoulder, as though with the gesture
she dubbed him her knight, "my more than friend--shall it be elder brother?--I believe that
you will be able to help me and my father. And if you fail--my gratitude to you will be none
the less great. I can't tell you how I trust you, how I care for you."

From his face she looked up at the sky above them; and in the sunlight her innocent, uplifted
smile made her like a heavenly child. "Isn't it wonderful?--beautiful?--" she said, almost
conquering her inner fear by the seeming what she wished to be. "Look up, Sir Basil!--Doesn't
it seem to heal everything,--to glorify everything,--to promise everything?"

He looked up at the sky, still speechless. Her face, her smile--the sky above it--did it not
heal, glorify, promise in its innocence? If a great thing claims one suddenly, must not the
lesser things inevitably go?--Could one hold them?--Ought one to try to hold them? There was
tumult in poor Sir Basil's soul, the tumult of partings and meetings.

But when everything culminated in the longing to seize this heavenly child--this heavenly woman--to
seize and kiss her--a sturdy sense of honesty warned him that not so could he, with honor,
go forward. He must see his way more clearly than that. Strange that he had been so blind,
till now, of where all ways, since his coming to Vermont, had been leading him. He could see
them now, plainly enough.

Taking Imogen's hand once more, he pressed it, dropped it, looked into her eyes and said, as
they turned to the descent: "That was swearing eternal friendship, wasn't it!"

XXI

Violent emotions, in highly civilized surroundings, may wonderfully be effaced by the common
effort of those who have learned how to live. Of these there were, perhaps, not many in our
little group; but the guidance of such a past mistress of the art as Imogen's mother steered
the social craft, on this occasion, past the reefs and breakers into a tolerably smooth sea.

With an ally as facile, despite his personal perturbations, as Sir Basil, a friend like Mrs.
Wake at hand--a friend to whom one had never to make explanations, yet who always understood
what was wanted of her,--with a presence so propitious as the calm and unconscious Miss Bocock,
the sickening plunges of explanation and recrimination that accompany unwary seafaring and
unskilful seamanship were quite avoided in the time that passed between Valerie's appearance
at the tea-table--where she dispensed refreshment to Mrs. Wake, Miss Bocock, and Jack only--and
the meeting of all the ship's crew at dinner.

Valerie, in that ominous interlude, even when Sir Basil appeared on the veranda, alone, but
saying that he had been for a walk with Miss Upton, who was tired and had gone to her room
to rest, even when she observed that the Pottses had decided upon maintaining a splendid isolation
in their own chambers, did not permit the ship to turn for one moment in such a direction.
She had tea sent up to Imogen and tea sent up to the Pottses; but no messages of any sort accompanied
either perfectly appointed tray, and when the dinner hour arrived she faced the Pottses' speechless
dignity and Imogen's mater dolorosa eyelids with perfect composure. She seemed, on meeting
the Pottses, neither to ignore nor to recall.

She seemed to understand speechlessness, yet to take it lightly, as if on their account. She
talked at them, through them, with them, really, in such a manner that they were drawn helplessly
into her shuttle and woven into the gracefully gliding pattern of social convention in spite
of themselves. In fact, she preserved appearances with such success that everyone, to each
one's surprise, was able to make an excellent dinner.

After high emotions, as after high seas, the appetite is capricious, shrinking to the shudder
of repulsion or rising to whetted keenness. Valerie had the satisfaction of seeing that her
crew, as they assured themselves--or, rather, as she assured them--that the waters were silken
in their calm, showed the reaction from moral stress in wholesome sensuous gratification. Even
Mrs. and Mr. Potts, even Imogen, were hungry.

She herself had still too strongly upon her the qualm of imminent shipwreck to do more than
seem to join them; but it was only natural that the captain, who alone was conscious of just
how near the reefs were and of just how threatening the horizon loomed, should lack the appetite
that his reassuring presence evoked. Jack noticed that she ate nothing, but he alone noticed it.

