At least a dozen hands shot into the air and as many voices shouted the correct result. We
didn't have many books, and the curriculum of an Illinois school in those days was not academic;
but two things the children could do, they could spell as well as the dictionary and they could
handle figures. Some of the fellows fairly wallowed in them. I didn't. I simply drowned in
the shallowest pond of numbers that ever spread itself on the page. As even unto this day I
do the same.

Well, one year the Teacher introduced an innovation; "compositions" by the girls and "speakin'
pieces" by the boys. It was easy enough for the girls, who had only to read the beautiful thought
that "spring is the pleasantest season of the year." Now and then a new girl, from the east,
awfully precise, would begin her essay--"spring is the most pleasant season of the year," and
her would we call down with derisive laughter, whereat she walked to her seat, very stiffly,
with a proud dry-eyed look in her face, only to lay her head upon her desk when she reached
it, and weep silently until school closed. But "speakin' pieces" did not meet with favor from
the boys, save one or two good boys who were in training by their parents for congressmen or
presidents.

The rest of us, who were just boys, with no desire ever to be anything else, endured the tyranny
of compulsory oratory about a month, and then resolved to abolish the whole business by a general
revolt. Big and little, we agreed to stand by each other, break up the new exercise, and get
back to the old order of things--the hurdle races in mental arithmetic and the geographical
chants which we could run and intone together.

Was I a mutineer? Well, say, son, your Pa was a constituent conspirator. He was in the color
guard. You see, the first boy called on for a declamation was to announce the strike, and as
my name stood very high--in the alphabetical roll of pupils--I had an excellent chance of leading
the assaulting column, a distinction for which I was not at all ambitious, being a stripling
of tender years, ruddy countenance, and sensitive feelings. However, I stiffened the sinews
of my soul, girded on my armor by slipping an atlas back under my jacket and was ready for
the fray, feeling a little terrified shiver of delight as I thought that the first lick Mr.
Hinman gave me would make him think he had broken my back.

The hour for "speakin' pieces," an hour big with fate, arrived on time. A boy named Aby Abbott
was called up ahead of me, but he happened to be one of the presidential aspirants (he was
mate on an Illinois river steamboat, stern-wheeler at that, the last I knew of him), and of
course he flunked and "said" his piece--a sadly prophetic selection--"Mr. President, it is
natural for man to indulge in the illusions of hope." We made such suggestive and threatening
gestures at him, however, when Mr. Hinman wasn't looking, that he forgot half his "piece,"
broke down and cried. He also cried after school, a little more bitterly, and with far better
reason.

Then, after an awful pause, in which the conspirators could hear the beating of each other's
hearts, my name was called.

I sat still at my desk and said:

"I ain't goin' to speak no piece."

Mr. Hinman looked gently surprised and asked:

"Why not, Robert?"

I replied:

"Because there ain't goin' to be any more speakin' pieces."

The teacher's eyes grew round and big as he inquired:

"Who says there will not?"

I said, in slightly firmer tones, as I realized that the moment had come for dragging the rest
of the rebels into court:

"All of us boys!"

But Mr. Hinman smiled, and said quietly that he guessed there would be "a little more speaking
before the close of the session." Then laying his hand on my shoulder, with most punctilious
but chilling courtesy, he invited me to the rostrum. The "rostrum" was twenty-five feet distant,
but I arrived there on schedule time and only touched my feet to the floor twice on my way.

And then and there, under Mr. Hinman's judicious coaching, before the assembled school, with
feelings, nay, emotions which I now shudder to recall, I did my first "song and dance." Many
times before had I stepped off a solo-cachuca to the staccato pleasing of a fragment of slate
frame, upon which my tutor was a gifted performer, but never until that day did I accompany
myself with words. Boy like, I had chosen for my "piece" a poem sweetly expressive of those
peaceful virtues which I most heartily despised. So that my performance, at the inauguration
of the strike, as Mr. Hinman conducted the overture, ran something like this--

    "Oh, not for me (whack) is the rolling (whack) drum,
    Or the (whack, whack) trumpet's wild (whack) appeal! (Boo-hoo!)
    Or the cry (swish--whack) of (boo-hoo-hoo!) war when the (whack) foe
        is come (ouch!)
    Or the (ow--wow!) brightly (whack) flashing (whack-whack) steel!
        (wah-hoo, wah-hoo!)"

Words and symbols can not convey to the most gifted imagination the gestures with which I illustrated
the seven stanzas of this beautiful poem. I had really selected it to please my mother, whom
I had invited to be present, when I supposed I would deliver it. But the fact that she attended
a missionary meeting in the Baptist church that afternoon made me a friend of missions forever.
Suffice it to say, then, that my pantomime kept pace and time with Mr. Hinman's system of punctuation
until the last line was sobbed and whacked out. I groped my bewildered way to my seat through
a mist of tears and sat down gingerly and sideways, inly wondering why an inscrutable providence
had given to the rugged rhinoceros the hide which the eternal fitness of things had plainly
prepared for the school-boy.

But I quickly forgot my own sorrow and dried my tears with laughter in the enjoyment of the
subsequent acts of the opera, as the chorus developed the plot and action. Mr. Hinman, who
had been somewhat gentle with me, dealt firmly with the larger boy who followed, and there
was a scene of revelry for the next twenty minutes. The old man shook Bill Morrison until his
teeth rattled so you couldn't hear him cry. He hit Mickey McCann, the tough boy from, the Lower
Prairie, and Mickey ran out and lay down in the snow to cool off. He hit Jake Bailey across
the legs with a slate frame, and it hurt so that Jake couldn't howl--he just opened his mouth
wide, held up his hands, gasped, and forgot his own name. He pushed Bill Haskell into a seat
and the bench broke.

He ran across the room and reached out for Lem Harkins, and Lem had a fit before the old man
touched him. He shook Dan Stevenson for two minutes, and when he let him go, Dan walked around
his own desk five times before he could find it, and then he couldn't sit down without holding
on. He whipped the two Knowltons with a skate-strap in each hand at the same time; the Greenwood
family, five boys and a big girl, he whipped all at once with a girl's skipping rope, and they
raised such a united wail that the clock stopped.

He took a twist in Bill Rodecker's front hair, and Bill slept with his eyes open for a week.
He kept the atmosphere of that school-room full of dust, and splinters, and lint, weeping,
wailing and gnashing of teeth, until he reached the end of the alphabet and all hearts ached
and wearied of the inhuman strife and wicked contention. Then he stood up before us, a sickening
tangle of slate frame, strap, ebony ferule and skipping rope, a smile on his kind old face,
and asked, in clear, triumphant tones:

"WHO says there isn't going to be any more speaking pieces?"

And every last boy in that school sprang to his feet; standing there as one human being with
one great mouth, we shrieked in concerted anguish:

"NOBODY DON'T!"

And your Pa, my son, who led that strike, has been "speakin' pieces" ever since.

NATURAL PERVERSITIES

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

    I am not prone to moralize
      In scientific doubt
    On certain facts that Nature tries
      To puzzle us about,--
    For I am no philosopher
      Of wise elucidation,
    But speak of things as they occur,
      From simple observation.

    I notice little things--to wit:--
      I never missed a train
    Because I didn't run for it;
      I never knew it rain
    That my umbrella wasn't lent,--
      Or, when in my possession,
    The sun but wore, to all intent,
      A jocular expression.

    I never knew a creditor
      To dun me for a debt
    But I was "cramped" or "busted"; or
      I never knew one yet,
    When I had plenty in my purse,
      To make the least invasion,--
    As I, accordingly perverse,
      Have courted no occasion.

    Nor do I claim to comprehend
      What Nature has in view
    In giving us the very friend
      To trust we oughtn't to.--
    But so it is: The trusty gun
      Disastrously exploded
    Is always sure to be the one
      We didn't think was loaded.

    Our moaning is another's mirth,--
      And what is worse by half,
    We say the funniest thing on earth
      And never raise a laugh:
    Mid friends that love us overwell,
      And sparkling jests and liquor,
    Our hearts somehow are liable
      To melt in tears the quicker.

    We reach the wrong when most we seek
      The right; in like effect,
    We stay the strong and not the weak--
      Do most when we neglect.--
    Neglected genius--truth be said--
      As wild and quick as tinder,
    The more you seek to help ahead
      The more you seem to hinder.

    I've known the least the greatest, too--
      And, on the selfsame plan,
    The biggest fool I ever knew
      Was quite a little man:
    We find we ought, and then we won't--
      We prove a thing, then doubt it,--
    Know everything but when we don't
      Know anything about it.

BUDD WILKINS AT THE SHOW

BY S.E. KISER

    Since I've got used to city ways and don't scare at the cars,
    It makes me smile to set and think of years ago.--My stars!
    How green I was, and how green all them country people be--
    Sometimes it seems almost as if this hardly could be me.

    Well, I was goin' to tell you 'bout Budd Wilkins: I declare
    He was the durndest, greenest chap that ever breathed the air--
    The biggest town on earth, he thought, was our old county seat,
    With its one two-story brick hotel and dusty bizness street.

    We'd fairs in fall and now and then a dance or huskin' bee,
    Which was the most excitin' things Budd Wilkins ever see,
    Until, one winter, Skigginsville was all turned upside down
    By a troupe of real play actors a-comin' into town.

    The court-house it was turned into a theater, that night,
    And I don't s'pose I'll live to see another sich a sight:
    I guess that every person who was able fer to go
    Jest natchelly cut loose fer oncet, and went to see the show.

    Me and Budd we stood around there all day in the snow,
    But gosh! it paid us, fer we got seats right in the second row!
    Well, the brass band played a tune or two, and then the play begun,
    And 'twa'n't long 'fore the villain had the hero on the run.

    Say, talk about your purty girls with sweet, confidin' ways--
    I never see the equal yit, in all o' my born days.
    Of that there brave young heroine, so clingin' and so mild,
    And jest as innocent as if she'd been a little child.

    I most forgot to say that Budd stood six feet in his socks,
    As brave as any lion, too, and stronger than an ox!
    But there never was a man, I'll bet, that had a softer heart,
    And he was always sure to take the weaker person's part.

    Budd, he fell dead in love right off with that there purty girl,
    And I suppose the feller's brain was in a fearful whirl,
    Fer there he set and gazed at her, and when she sighed he sighed,
    And when she hid her face and sobbed, he actually cried.

    He clinched his fists and ground his teeth when the villain laid
        his plot
    And said out loud he'd like to kill the rogue right on the spot,
    And when the hero helped the girl, Budd up and yelled "Hooray!"
    He'd clean fergot the whole blame thing was nothing but a play.

    At last the villain trapped the girl, that sweet confidin' child,
    And when she cried for help, why I'll admit that I was riled;
    The hero couldn't do a thing, but roll and writhe around
    And tug and groan because they'd got the poor chap gagged and bound.

    The maiden cried: "Unhand me now, or, weak girl that I am--"
    And then Budd Wilkins he jumped up and give his hat a slam,
    And, quicker'n I can tell it he was up there raisin' Ned,
    A-rescuin' the maiden and a-punchin' the rogue's head.

    I can't, somehow, perticklerize concernin' that there row:
    The whole thing seems a sort of blur as I recall it now--
    But I can still remember that there was a fearful thud,
    With the air chock full of arms and legs and the villain under Budd.

    I never see a chap so bruised and battered up before
    As that there villain was when he was picked up from the floor!--
    The show? Oh, it was busted, and they put poor Budd in jail,
    And kept him there all night, because I couldn't go his bail.

    Next mornin' what d' you think we heard? Most s'prised in all my life!
    That sweet, confidin' maiden was the cruel villain's wife!
    Budd wilted when he heard it, and he groaned, and then, says he:
    "Well, I'll be dummed! Bill, that's the last play actin' show fer me!"

BALLAD

BY CHARLES GODFREY LELAND

    Der noble Ritter Hugo
      Von Schwillensaufenstein,
    Rode out mit shpeer and helmet,
      Und he coom to de panks of de Rhine.

    Und oop dere rose a meer maid,
      Vot hadn't got nodings on,
    Und she say, "Oh, Ritter Hugo,
      Vhere you goes mit yourself alone?"

    And he says, "I rides in de creenwood
      Mit helmet und mit shpeer,
    Till I cooms into em Gasthaus,
      Und dere I trinks some beer."

    Und den outshpoke de maiden
      Vot hadn't got nodings on:
    "I tont dink mooch of beoplesh
      Dat goes mit demselfs alone.

    "You'd petter coom down in de wasser,
      Vere deres heaps of dings to see,
    Und hafe a shplendid tinner
      Und drafel along mit me.

    "Dere you sees de fisch a schwimmin,
      Und you catches dem efery one:"--
    So sang dis wasser maiden
      Vot hadn't got nodings on.

    "Dere ish drunks all full mit money
      In ships dat vent down of old;
    Und you helpsh yourself, by dunder!
      To shimmerin crowns of gold.

    "Shoost look at dese shpoons und vatches!
      Shoost see dese diamant rings!
    Coom down und full your bockets,
      Und I'll giss you like avery dings.

    "Vot you vantsh mit your schnapps und lager?
      Coom down into der Rhine!
    Der ish pottles der Kaiser Charlemagne
      Vonce filled mit gold-red wine!"

    Dat fetched him--he shtood all shpell pound;
      She pooled his coat-tails down,
    She drawed him oonder der wasser,
      De maidens mit nodings on.

THE HOOSIER AND THE SALT PILE

BY DANFORTH MARBLE

"I'm sorry," said Dan, as he knocked the ashes from his regalia, as he sat in a small crowd
over a glass of sherry, at Florence's, New York, one evening,--"I'm sorry that the stages are
disappearing so rapidly. I never enjoyed traveling so well as in the slow coaches. I've made
a good many passages over the Alleghanies, and across Ohio, from Cleveland to Columbus and
Cincinnati, all over the South, down East, and up North, in stages, and I generally had a good
time.

"When I passed over from Cleveland to Cincinnati, the last time, in a stage, I met a queer
crowd. Such a corps, such a time, you never did see. I never was better amused in my life.
We had a good team,--spanking horses, fine coaches, and one of them drivers you read of. Well,
there was nine 'insiders,' and I don't believe there ever was a stage full of Christians ever
started before, so chuck full of music.

"There was a beautiful young lady going to one of the Cincinnati academies; next to her sat
a Jew peddler,--Cowes and a market; wedging him was a dandy black-leg, with jewelry and chains
around about his breast and neck enough to hang him. There was myself, and an old gentleman
with large spectacles, gold-headed cane, and a jolly, soldering-iron-looking nose; by him was
a circus-rider, whose breath was enough to breed yaller fever and could be felt just as easy
as cotton velvet! A cross old woman came next, whose look would have given any reasonable man
the double-breasted blues before breakfast; alongside of her was a rale backwoods preacher,
with the biggest and ugliest mouth ever got up since the flood. He was flanked by the low comedian
of the party, an Indiana Hoosier, 'gwine down to Orleans to get an army contrac' to supply
the forces, then in Mexico, with beef.

"We rolled along for some time. Nobody seemed inclined to 'open.' The old aunty sat bolt upright,
looking crab-apples and persimmons at the hoosier and the preacher; the young lady dropped
the green curtain of her bonnet over her pretty face, and leaned back in her seat to nod and
dream over japonicas and jumbles, pantalets and poetry; the old gentleman, proprietor of the
Bardolph nose, looked out at the corduroy and swashes; the gambler fell off into a doze, and
the circus convoy followed suit, leaving the preacher and me vis-à-vis and saying nothing to
nobody. 'Indiany,' he stuck his mug out of the window and criticized the cattle we now and
then passed. I was wishing somebody would give the conversation a start, when 'Indiany' made
a break.

"'This ain't no great stock country,' says he to the old gentleman with the cane.

"'No, sir,' says the old gentleman. 'There's very little grazing here, and the range is pretty
much wore out.'

"Then there was nothing said again for some time. Bimeby the hoosier opened ag'in:

"'It's the d----dest place for 'simmon-trees and turkey-buzzards I ever did see!'

"The old gentleman with the cane didn't say nothing, and the preacher gave a long groan. The
young lady smiled through her veil, and the old lady snapped her eyes and looked sideways at
the speaker.

"'Don't make much beef here, I reckon,' says the hoosier.

"'No,' says the gentleman.

"'Well, I don't see how in h----ll they all manage to get along in a country whar thar ain't
no ranges and they don't make no beef. A man ain't considered worth a cuss in Indiany what
hasn't got his brand on a hundred head.'

"'Yours is a great beef country, I believe,' says the old gentleman.

"'Well, sir, it ain't anything else. A man that's got sense enuff to foller his own cow-bell
with us ain't in no danger of starvin'. I'm gwine down to Orleans to see if I can't git a contract
out of Uncle Sam to feed the boys what's been lickin' them infernal Mexicans so bad. I s'pose
you've seed them cussed lies what's been in the papers about the Indiany boys at Bony Visty.'

"'I've read some accounts of the battle,' says the old gentleman, 'that didn't give a very
flattering account of the conduct of some of our troops.'

"With that, the Indiany man went into a full explanation of the affair, and, gettin' warmed
up as he went along, begun to cuss and swear like he'd been through a dozen campaigns himself.
The old preacher listened to him with evident signs of displeasure, twistin' and groanin' till
he couldn't stand it no longer.

"'My friend,' says he, 'you must excuse me, but your conversation would be a great deal more
interesting to me--and I'm sure would please the company much better--if you wouldn't swear
so terribly. It's very wrong to swear, and I hope you'll have respect for our feelin's, if
you hain't no respect for your Maker.'

"If the hoosier had been struck with thunder and lightnin', he couldn't have been more completely
tuck aback. He shut his mouth right in the middle of what he was sayin', and looked at the
preacher, while his face got as red as fire.

"'Swearin',' says the old preacher, 'is a terrible bad practice, and there ain't no use in
it, nohow. The Bible says, Swear not at all, and I s'pose you know the commandments about swearin'?'

"The old lady sort of brightened up,--the preacher was her 'duck of a man'; the old fellow
with the nose and cane let off a few 'umph, ah! umphs'; but 'Indiany' kept shady; he appeared
to be cowed down.

"'I know,' says the preacher, 'that a great many people swear without thinkin', and some people
don't b'lieve the Bible.'

"And then he went on to preach a regular sermon ag'in swearing, and to quote Scripture like
he had the whole Bible by heart. In the course of his argument he undertook to prove the Scriptures
to be true, and told us all about the miracles and prophecies and their fulfilment. The old
gentleman with the cane took a part in the conversation, and the hoosier listened, without
ever opening his head.

"'I've just heard of a gentleman,' says the preacher, 'that's been to the Holy Land and went
over the Bible country. It's astonishin' to hear what wonderful things he has seen. He was
at Sodom and Gomorrow, and seen the place whar Lot's wife fell.'

"'Ah!' says the old gentleman with the cane.

"'Yes,' says the preacher; 'he went to the very spot; and, what's the remarkablest thing of
all, he seen the pillar of salt what she was turned into.'

"'Is it possible!' says the old gentleman.

"'Yes, sir; he seen the salt, standin' thar to this day.'

"'What!' says the hoosier, 'real genewine, good salt?'

"'Yes, sir, a pillar of salt, jest as it was when that wicked woman was punished for her disobedience.'

"All but the gambler, who was snoozing in the corner of the coach, looked at the preacher,--the
hoosier with an expression of countenance that plainly told us that his mind was powerfully
convicted of an important fact.

"'Right out in the open air?' he asked.

"'Yes, standin' right in the open field, whar she fell.'

"'Well, sir,' says 'Indiany,' 'all I've got to say is, if she'd dropped in our parts, the cattle
would have licked her up afore sundown!'

"The preacher raised both his hands at such an irreverent remark, and the old gentleman laughed
himself into a fit of asthmatics, what he didn't get over till we came to the next change of
horses. The hoosier had played the mischief with the gravity of the whole party; even the old
maid had to put her handkerchief to her face, and the young lady's eyes were filled with tears
for half an hour afterward. The old preacher hadn't another word to say on the subject; but
whenever we came to any place, or met anybody on the road, the circus-man nursed the thing
along by asking what was the price of salt."

A RIVAL ENTERTAINMENT

BY KATE FIELD

I once heard a bright child declare that if circuses were prohibited in heaven, she did not
wish to go there. She had been baptized, was under Christian influences, and, previous to this
heterodoxy, had never given her good parents a moment's anxiety. Her naïve utterance touched
a responsive chord within my own breast, for well did I remember how gloriously the circus
shone by the light of other days; how the ring-master, in a wrinkled dress-coat, seemed the
most enviable of mortals, being on speaking terms with all the celestial creatures who jumped
over flags and through balloons; how the clown was the dearest, funniest of men; how the young
athletes in tights and spangles were my beau-ideals of masculinity; and how La Belle Rose,
with one foot upon her native heath, otherwise a well-padded saddle, and the other pointed
in the direction of the sweet little cherubs that sat up aloft, was the most fascinating of
her sex. I am persuaded that circuses fill an aching void in the universe. What children did
before their invention I shudder to think, for circuses are to childhood what butter is to
bread; and what the world did before the birth of Barnum is an almost equally frightful problem.
Some are born to shows, others attain shows, and yet again others have shows thrust upon them.
Barnum is a born showman. If ever a man fulfills his destiny, it is the discoverer of Tom Thumb.
With the majority of men and women life is a failure. Not until one leg dangles in the grave
is their raison d'être disclosed. The round people always find themselves sticking in the square
holes, and vice versa; but with Barnum we need not deplore a vie manquée. We can smile at his
reverses, for even the phoenix has cause to blush in his presence. Though pursued by tongues
of fire, Barnum remains invincible when iron, stone, and mortar crumble around him; and while
yet the smoke is telling volumes of destruction, the cheery voice of the showman exclaims,
"Here you are, gentlemen; admission fifty cents, children half price."

Apropos of Barnum, once in my life I gave myself up to unmitigated joy. Weary of lecturing,
singing the song "I would I were a boy again," I went to see the elephant. To speak truly,
I saw not one elephant, but half a dozen. I had a feast of roaring and a flow of circus. In
fact I indulged in the wildest dissipation. I visited Barnum's circus and sucked peppermint
candy in a way most childlike and bland. The reason seems obscure, but circuses and peppermint
candy are as inseparable as peanuts and the Bowery. Appreciating this solemn fact, Barnum provides
bigger sticks adorned with bigger red stripes than ever Romans sucked in the palmy days of
the Coliseum. In the dim distance I mistook them for barbers' poles, but upon direct application
I recognized them for my long lost own.

However, let me, like the Germans, begin with the creation. "Here, ladies and gentlemen, is
for sale Mr. Barnum's Autobiography, full of interest and anecdote, one of the most charming
productions ever issued from the press, 900 pages, thirty-two full-page engravings, reduced
from $3.50 to $1.50. Every purchaser enters free."

How ordinary mortals can resist buying Barnum's Autobiography for one dollar--such a bargain
as never was--is incomprehensible. I believe they can not. I believe they do their duty like
men. As one man I resisted, because I belong to the press, and therefore am not mortal. Who
ever heard of a journalist getting a bargain? With Spartan firmness I turned a deaf ear to
the persuasive music of the propagandist, and entered where hope is all before. I was not staggered
by a welcome from all the Presidents of the United States, Fitz-Greene Halleck, General Hooker,
and Gratz Brown. These personages are rather woodeny and red about the face, as though flushed
with victories of the platform or the table, but I recognize their fitness in a menagerie.
What athlete has turned more somersaults than some of these representative men? What lion has
roared more gently than a few of these sucking doves? Barnum's tact in appropriately grouping
curiosities, living and dead, is too well known to require comment. Passing what Sam Weller
would call "a reg'lar knock-down of intellect," I took my seat high in the air amid a dense
throng of my fellow-creatures, and realized how many people it takes to make up the world.
What did I see? I saw double. I beheld not one ring but two, in each of which the uncommon
variety of man was disporting in an entertaining manner. I felt for these uncommon men. Think
what immortal hates must arise from these dual performances! We all like to receive the reward
of merit, but when two performances are going on simultaneously, how are the artists to know
for whom it is intended? Applause is the sweet compensation for which all strive privately
or publicly, and to be cheated out of it, or left in doubt as to its destination, is a refined
form of the Inquisition. Fancy the sensations of the man balancing plates on the little end
of nothing,--a feat to which he has consecrated his life,--at thought of his neighbor's performance
of impossible feats in the air! It would be more than human in both not to wish the other in
Jericho, or in some equally remote quarter of the globe. I sympathized with them. I became
bewildered in my endeavors to keep one eye on each. If human beings were constructed on the
same principles as Janus, and had two faces, a fore-and-aft circus would be convenient; but
as nowadays double-faced people only wear two eyes in their heads, the Barnumian conception
muddles the intellect. I pray you, great and glorious showman, take pity on your artists and
your audiences. Don't drive the former mad and the latter distracted. Remember that insanity
is on the increase, and that accommodations in asylums are limited. Take warning before you
undermine the reason of an entire continent. Beware! Beware!

I hear much and see more of the physical weakness of woman. Michelet tells the sentimental
world that woman is an exquisite invalid, with a perennial headache and nerves perpetually
on the rack. It is a mistake. When I gaze upon German and French peasant-women, I ask Michelet
which is right, he or Nature? And since my introduction to Barnum's female gymnast,--a good-looking,
well-formed mother of a family, who walks about unflinchingly with men and boys on her shoulders,
and carries a 300-pound gun as easily as the ordinary woman carries a clothes-basket,--I have
been persuaded that "the coming woman," like Brother Jonathan, will "lick all creation." In
that good time, woman will have her rights because she will have her muscle. Then, if there
are murders and playful beatings between husbands and wives, the wives will enjoy all the glory
of crime. What an outlook! And what a sublime consolation to the present enfeebled race of
wives that are having their throats cut and their eyes carved out merely because their biceps
have not gone into training! Barnum's female gymnast is an example to her sex. What woman has
done woman may do again. Mothers, train up your daughters in the way they should fight, and
when they are married they will not depart this life. God is on the side of the stoutest muscle
as well as of the heaviest battalions. It is perfectly useless to talk about the equality of
the sexes as long as a man can strangle his own mother-in-law.

