Endowed with the knowledge of "good and evil," and all the "second sights" that can be acquired,
Michael left his lodgings in the morning, with the philosopher's stone in his pocket.  By daily
perfecting his supernatural attainments, by new series of discoveries, he became more than
a match for Satan himself.  Having seduced some thousands of Satan's best workmen into his
employment, he trained them up so successfully to the architective business, and inspired them
with such industrious habits, that he was more than sufficient for all the architectural work
of the empire.  To establish this assertion, we need only refer to some remains of his workmanship
still existing north of the Grampians, some of them, stupendous bridges built by him in one
short night, with no other visible agents than two or three workmen.

On one occasion work was getting scarce, as might have been naturally expected, and his workmen,
as they were wont, flocked to his doors, perpetually exclaiming, "Work! work! work!"  Continually
annoyed by their incessant entreaties, he called out to them in derision to go and make a dry
road from Fortrose to Arderseir, over the Moray Firth.  Immediately their cry ceased, and as
Scott supposed it wholly impossible for them to execute his order, he retired to rest, laughing
most heartily at the chimerical sort of employment he had given to his industrious workmen.
Early in the morning, however, he got up and took a walk at the break of day down to the shore
to divert himself at the fruitless labours of his zealous workmen.  But on reaching the spot,
what was his astonishment to find the formidable piece of work allotted to them only a few
hours before already nearly finished.  Seeing the great damage the commercial class of the
community would sustain from the operation, he ordered the workmen to demolish the most part
of their work; leaving, however, the point of Fortrose to show the traveller to this day the
wonderful exploit of Michael Scott's fairies.

On being thus again thrown out of employment, their former clamour was resumed, nor could Michael
Scott, with all his sagacity, devise a plan to keep them in innocent employment.  He at length
discovered one.  "Go," says he, "and manufacture me ropes that will carry me to the back of
the moon, of these materials--miller's-sudds and sea-sand."  Michael Scott here obtained rest
from his active operators; for, when other work failed them, he always despatched them to their
rope manufactory.  But though these agents could never make proper ropes of those materials,
their efforts to that effect are far from being contemptible, for some of their ropes are seen
by the sea-side to this day.

We shall close our notice of Michael Scott by reciting one anecdote of him in the latter part
of his life.

In consequence of a violent quarrel which Michael Scott once had with a person whom he conceived
to have caused him some injury, he resolved, as the highest punishment he could inflict upon
him, to send his adversary to that evil place designed only for Satan and his black companions.
He accordingly, by means of his supernatural machinations, sent the poor unfortunate man thither;
and had he been sent by any other means than those of Michael Scott, he would no doubt have
met with a warm reception. Out of pure spite to Michael, however, when Satan learned who was
his billet-master, he would no more receive him than he would receive the Wife of Beth; and
instead of treating the unfortunate man with the harshness characteristic of him, he showed
him considerable civilities. Introducing him to his "Ben Taigh," he directed her to show the
stranger any curiosities he might wish to see, hinting very significantly that he had provided
some accommodation for their mutual friend, Michael Scott, the sight of which might afford
him some gratification.  The polite housekeeper accordingly conducted the stranger through
the principal apartments in the house, where he saw fearful sights.  But the bed of Michael
Scott!--his greatest enemy could not but feel satiated with revenge at the sight of it.  It
was a place too horrid to be described, filled promiscuously with all the awful brutes imaginable.
Toads and lions, lizards and leeches, and, amongst the rest, not the least conspicuous, a large
serpent gaping for Michael Scott, with its mouth wide open.  This last sight having satisfied
the stranger's curiosity, he was led to the outer gate, and came away.  He reached his friends,
and, among other pieces of news touching his travels, he was not backward in relating the entertainment
that awaited his friend Michael Scott, as soon as he would "stretch his foot" for the other
world.  But Michael did not at all appear disconcerted at his friend's intelligence.  He affirmed
that he would disappoint all his enemies in their expectations--in proof of which he gave the
following signs: "When I am just dead," says he, "open my breast and extract my heart.  Carry
it to some place where the public may see the result.  You will then transfix it upon a long
pole, and if Satan will have my soul, he will come in the likeness of a black raven and carry
it off; and if my soul will be saved it will be carried off by a white dove."

His friends faithfully obeyed his instructions.  Having exhibited his heart in the manner directed,
a large black raven was observed to come from the east with great fleetness, while a white
dove came from the west with equal velocity.  The raven made a furious dash at the heart, missing
which, it was unable to curb its force, till it was considerably past it; and the dove, reaching
the spot at the same time, carried off the heart amidst the rejoicing and ejaculations of the
spectators.

THE MINISTER AND THE FAIRY.

Not long since, a pious clergyman was returning home, after administering spiritual consolation
to a dying member of his flock.  It was late of the night, and he had to pass through a good
deal of uncanny land.  He was, however, a good and a conscientious minister of the Gospel,
and feared not all the spirits in the country.  On his reaching the end of a lake which stretched
along the roadside for some distance, he was a good deal surprised at hearing the most melodious
strains of music.  Overcome by pleasure and curiosity, the minister coolly sat down to listen
to the harmonious sounds, and try what new discoveries he could make with regard to their nature
and source.  He had not sat many minutes before he could distinguish the approach of the music,
and also observe a light in the direction from whence it proceeded gliding across the lake
towards him. Instead of taking to his heels, as any faithless wight would have done, the pastor
fearlessly determined to await the issue of the phenomenon.  As the light and music drew near,
the clergyman could at length distinguish an object resembling a human being walking on the
surface of the water, attended by a group of diminutive musicians, some of them bearing lights,
and others instruments of music, from which they continued to evoke those melodious strains
which first attracted his attention.  The leader of the band dismissed his attendants, landed
on the beach, and afforded the minister the amplest opportunities of examining his appearance.
He was a little primitive-looking grey-headed man, clad in the most grotesque habit the clergyman
had ever seen, and such as led him at once to suspect his real character.  He walked up to
the minister, whom he saluted with great grace, offering an apology for his intrusion.  The
pastor returned his compliments, and, without further explanation, invited the mysterious stranger
to sit down by his side.  The invitation was complied with, upon which the minister proposed
the following question:--"Who art thou, stranger, and from whence?"

To this question the fairy, with downcast eye, replied that he was one of those sometimes called
Doane Shee, or men of peace, or good men, though the reverse of this title was a more fit appellation
for them.  Originally angelic in his nature and attributes, and once a sharer of the indescribable
joys of the regions of light, he was seduced by Satan to join him in his mad conspiracies;
and, as a punishment for his transgression, he was cast down from those regions of bliss, and
was now doomed, along with millions of fellow-sufferers, to wander through seas and mountains,
until the coming of the Great Day.  What their fate would be then they could not divine, but
they apprehended the worst.  "And," continued he, turning to the minister, with great anxiety,
"the object of my present intrusion on you is to learn your opinion, as an eminent divine,
as to our final condition on that dreadful day."  Here the venerable pastor entered upon a
long conversation with the fairy, touching the principles of faith and repentance.  Receiving
rather unsatisfactory answers to his questions, the minister desired the "sheech" to repeat
after him the Paternoster, in attempting to do which, it was not a little remarkable that he
could not repeat the word "art," but said "wert," in heaven.  Inferring from every circumstance
that their fate was extremely precarious, the minister resolved not to puff the fairies up
with presumptuous, and, perhaps, groundless expectations. Accordingly, addressing himself to
the unhappy fairy, who was all anxiety to know the nature of his sentiments, the reverend gentleman
told him that he could not take it upon him to give them any hopes of pardon, as their crime
was of so deep a hue as scarcely to admit of it.  On this the unhappy fairy uttered a shriek
of despair, plunged headlong into the loch, and the minister resumed his course to his home.

THE FISHERMAN AND THE MERMAN.

Of mermen and merwomen many strange stories are told in the Shetland Isles.  Beneath the depths
of the ocean, according to these stories, an atmosphere exists adapted to the respiratory organs
of certain beings, resembling, in form, the human race, possessed of surpassing beauty, of
limited supernatural powers, and liable to the incident of death.  They dwell in a wide territory
of the globe, far below the region of fishes, over which the sea, like the cloudy canopy of
our sky, loftily rolls, and they possess habitations constructed of the pearl and coral productions
of the ocean.  Having lungs not adapted to a watery medium, but to the nature of atmospheric
air, it would be impossible for them to pass through the volume of waters that intervenes between
the submarine and supramarine world, if it were not for the extraordinary power they inherit
of entering the skin of some animal capable of existing in the sea, which they are enabled
to occupy by a sort of demoniacal possession. One shape they put on, is that of an animal human
above the waist, yet terminating below in the tail and fins of a fish, but the most favourite
form is that of the larger seal or Haaf-fish; for, in possessing an amphibious nature, they
are enabled not only to exist in the ocean, but to land on some rock, where they frequently
lighten themselves of their sea-dress, resume their proper shape, and with much curiosity examine
the nature of the upper world belonging to the human race.  Unfortunately, however, each merman
or merwoman possesses but one skin, enabling the individual to ascend the seas, and if, on
visiting the abode of man, the garb be lost, the hapless being must unavoidably become an inhabitant
of the earth.

A story is told of a boat's crew who landed for the purpose of attacking the seals lying in
the hollows of the crags at one of the stacks.  The men stunned a number of the animals, and
while they were in this state stripped them of their skins, with the fat attached to them.
Leaving the carcasses on the rock, the crew were about to set off for the shore of Papa Stour,
when such a tremendous swell arose that every one flew quickly to the boat.  All succeeded
in entering it except one man, who had imprudently lingered behind.  The crew were unwilling
to leave a companion to perish on the skerries, but the surge increased so fast, that after
many unsuccessful attempts to bring the boat close in to the stack the unfortunate wight was
left to his fate.  A stormy night came on, and the deserted Shetlander saw no prospect before
him but that of perishing from cold and hunger, or of being washed into the sea by the breakers
which threatened to dash over the rocks.  At length, he perceived many of the seals, who, in
their flight had escaped the attack of the boatmen, approach the skerry, disrobe themselves
of their amphibious hides, and resume the shape of the sons and daughters of the ocean.  Their
first object was to assist in the recovery of their friends, who having been stunned by clubs,
had, while in that state, been deprived of their skins.  When the flayed animals had regained
their sensibility, they assumed their proper form of mermen or merwomen, and began to lament
in a mournful lay, wildly accompanied by the storm that was raging around, the loss of their
sea-dress, which would prevent them from again enjoying their native azure atmosphere, and
coral mansions that lay below the deep waters of the Atlantic.  But their chief lamentation
was for Ollavitinus, the son of Gioga, who, having been stripped of his seal's skin, would
be for ever parted from his mates, and condemned to become an outcast inhabitant of the upper
world.  Their song was at length broken off, by observing one of their enemies viewing, with
shivering limbs and looks of comfortless despair, the wild waves that dashed over the stack.
Gioga immediately conceived the idea of rendering subservient to the advantage of the son the
perilous situation of the man.  She addressed him with mildness, proposing to carry him safe
on her back across the sea to Papa Stour, on condition of receiving the seal- skin of Ollavitinus.
A bargain was struck, and Gioga clad herself in her amphibious garb; but the Shetlander, alarmed
at the sight of the stormy main that he was to ride through, prudently begged leave of the
matron, for his better preservation, that he might be allowed to cut a few holes in her shoulders
and flanks, in order to procure, between the skin and the flesh, a better fastening for his
hands and feet.  The request being complied with, the man grasped the neck of the seal, and
committing himself to her care, she landed him safely at Acres Gio in Papa Stour; from which
place he immediately repaired to a skeo at Hamna Voe, where the skin was deposited, and honourably
fulfilled his part of the contract, by affording Gioga the means whereby her son could again
revisit the ethereal space over which the sea spread its green mantle.

THE LAIRD O' CO'.

In the days of yore, the proprietors of Colzean, in Ayrshire (ancestors of the Marquis of Ailsa),
were known in that country by the title of Lairds o' Co', a name bestowed on Colzean from some
co's (or coves) in the rock beneath the castle.

One morning, a very little boy, carrying a small wooden can, addressed the Laird near the castle
gate, begging for a little ale for his mother, who was sick.  The Laird directed him to go
to the butler and get his can filled; so away he went as ordered.  The butler had a barrel
of ale on tap, but about half full, out of which he proceeded to fill the boy's can; but to
his extreme surprise he emptied the cask, and still the little can was not nearly full.  The
butler was unwilling to broach another barrel, but the little fellow insisted on the fulfilment
of the Laird's order, and a reference was made to the Laird by the butler, who stated the miraculous
capacity of the tiny can, and received instant orders to fill it if all the ale in the cellar
would suffice.  Obedient to this command, he broached another cask, but had scarcely drawn
a drop when the can was full, and the dwarf departed with expressions of gratitude.

Some years afterwards the Laird being at the wars in Flanders was taken prisoner, and for some
reason or other (probably as a spy) condemned to die a felon's death.  The night prior to the
day for his execution, being confined in a dungeon strongly barricaded, the doors suddenly
flew open, and the dwarf reappeared, saying--

   "Laird o' Co',
   Rise an' go."

a summons too welcome to require repetition.

On emerging from prison, the boy caused him to mount on his shoulders, and in a short time
set him down at his own gate, on the very spot where they had formerly met, saying--

   "Ae gude turn deserves anither--
   Tak' ye that for being sae kin' to my auld mither,"

and vanished.

EWEN OF THE LITTLE HEAD.

About three hundred years ago, Ewen Maclaine of Lochbuy, in the island of Mull, having been
engaged in a quarrel with a neighbouring chief, a day was fixed for determining the affair
by the sword.  Lochbuy, before the day arrived, consulted a celebrated witch as to the result
of the feud. The witch declared that if Lochbuy's wife should on the morning of that day give
him and his men food unasked, he would be victorious, but if not, the result would be the reverse.
This was a disheartening response for the unhappy votary, his wife being a noted shrew.

The fatal morning arrived, and the hour for meeting the enemy approached, but there appeared
no symptoms of refreshment for Lochbuy and his men.  At length the unfortunate man was compelled
to ask his wife to supply them with food.  She set down before them curds, but without spoons.
When the husband inquired how they were to eat them, she replied they should assume the bills
of hens.  The men ate the curds, as well as they could, with their hands; but Lochbuy himself
ate none.  After behaving with the greatest bravery in the bloody conflict which ensued, he
fell covered with wounds, leaving his wife to the execration of the people.  She is still known
in that district under the appellation of Corr-dhu, or the Black Crane.

But the miseries brought on the luckless Lochbuy by his wife did not end with his life, for
he died fasting, and his ghost is frequently seen to this day riding the very horse on which
he was mounted when he was killed.  It was a small, but very neat and active pony, dun or mouse-coloured,
to which the Laird was much attached, and on which he had ridden for many years before his
death.  Its appearance is as accurately described in the island of Mull as any steed is at
Newmarket.  The prints of its shoes are discerned by connoisseurs, and the rattling of its
curb is recognised in the darkest night.  It is not particular with regard to roads, for it
goes up hill and down dale with equal velocity.  Its hard- fated rider still wears the same
green cloak which covered him in his last battle; and he is particularly distinguished by the
small size of his head, a peculiarity which, we suspect, the learned disciples of Spurzheim
have never yet had the sagacity to discover as indicative of an extraordinary talent and incomparable
perseverance in horsemanship.

It is now above three hundred years since Ewen-a-chin-vig (Anglice, Hugh of the Little Head)
fell in the field of honour; but neither the vigour of the horse nor of the rider is yet diminished.
His mournful duty has always been to attend the dying moments of every member of his own tribe,
and to escort the departed spirit on its long and arduous journey.  He has been seen in the
remotest of the Hebrides; and he has found his way to Ireland on these occasions long before
steam navigation was invented.  About a century ago he took a fancy for a young man of his
own race, and frequently did him the honour of placing him behind himself on horseback.  He
entered into conversation with him, and foretold many circumstances connected with the fate
of his successors, which have undoubtedly since come to pass.

Many a long winter night have I listened to the feats of Ewen-a-chin-vig, the faithful and
indefatigable guardian of his ancient family, in the hour of their last and greatest trial,
affording an example worthy the imitation of every chief,--perhaps not beneath the notice of
Glengarry himself.

About a dozen years since some symptoms of Ewen's decay gave very general alarm to his friends.
He accosted one of his own people (indeed he never has been known to notice any other), and,
shaking him cordially by the hand, he attempted to place him on the saddle behind him, but
the uncourteous dog declined the honour.  Ewen struggled hard, but the clown was a great, strong,
clumsy fellow, and stuck to the earth with all his might.  He candidly acknowledged, however,
that his chief would have prevailed, had it not been for a birch-tree which stood by, and which
he got within the fold of his left arm.  The contest became very warm indeed, and the tree
was certainly twisted like an osier, as thousands can testify who saw it as well as myself.
At length, however, Ewen lost his seat for the first time, and the instant the pony found he
was his own master, he set off with the fleetness of lightning.  Ewen immediately pursued his
steed, and the wearied rustic sped his way homeward.  It was the general opinion that Ewen
found considerable difficulty in catching the horse; but I am happy to learn that he has been
lately seen riding the old mouse-coloured pony without the least change in either the horse
or the rider.  Long may he continue to do so!

Those who from motives of piety or curiosity have visited the sacred island of Iona, must remember
to have seen the guide point out the tomb of Ewen, with his figure on horseback, very elegantly
sculptured in alto- relievo, and many of the above facts are on such occasions related.

JOCK AND HIS MOTHER.

Ye see, there was a wife had a son, and they called him Jock; and she said to him, "You are
a lazy fellow; ye maun gang awa' and do something for to help me."  "Weel," says Jock, "I'll
do that."  So awa' he gangs, and fa's in wi' a packman.  Says the packman, "If you carry my
pack a' day, I'll gie you a needle at night."  So he carried the pack, and got the needle;
and as he was gaun awa' hame to his mither, he cuts a burden o' brackens, and put the needle
into the heart o' them.  Awa' he gaes hame.  Says his mither, "What hae ye made o' yoursel'
the day?"  Says Jock, "I fell in wi' a packman, and carried his pack a' day, and he gae me
a needle for't, and ye may look for it amang the brackens."  "Hout," quo' she, "ye daft gowk,
you should hae stuck it into your bonnet, man." "I'll mind that again," quo' Jock.

Next day he fell in wi' a man carrying plough socks.  "If ye help me to carry my socks a' day,
I'll gie ye ane to yersel' at night."  "I'll do that," quo' Jock.  Jock carried them a' day,
and got a sock, which he stuck in his bonnet.  On the way hame, Jock was dry, and gaed away
to take a drink out o' the burn; and wi' the weight o' the sock, his bonnet fell into the river,
and gaed out o' sight.  He gaed hame, and his mither says, "Weel, Jock, what hae you been doing
a' day?"  And then he tells her.  "Hout," quo' she, "you should hae tied the string to it,
and trailed it behind you."  "Weel," quo' Jock, "I'll mind that again."

