We have at last got a spring-tide of good luck.  The rebels turned back from Derby, and have
ever since been flying with the greatest precipitation.(1147)  The Duke, with all his horse,
and a thousand foot mounted, has pursued them with astonishing rapidity; and General Oglethorpe,
with part of Wade's horse, has crossed over upon them.  There has been little prospect of coming
up with their entire body, but it dismayed them; their stragglers were picked up, and the towns
in their way preserved from plunder, by their not having time to do mischief. This morning
an express is arrived from Lord Malton(1148) in Yorkshire, who has had an account of Oglethorpe's
cutting a part of them to pieces, and of the Duke's overtaking their rear and entirely demolishing
it.  We believe all this; but, as it is not yet confirmed, don't depend upon it too much. 
The fat East India ships are arrived safe from Ireland--I mean the prizes; and yesterday a
letter arrived from Admiral Townshend in the West Indies, where he has fallen in with the Martinico
fleet (each ship valued at eight thousand pounds), taken twenty, sunk ten, and driven ashore
two men-of-war, their convoy, and battered them to pieces.  All this will raise the pulse Of
the stocks, which have been exceedingly low this week, and the Bank itself in danger.  The
private rich are making immense fortunes out of the public distress: the dread of the French
invasion has occasioned this.  They have a vast embarkation at Dunkirk; the Duc de Richelieu,
Marquis Fimarcon, and other general officers, are named in form to command.  Nay, it has been
notified in form by the insolent Lord John Drummond,(1149) who has got to Scotland, and sent
a drum to Marshal Wade, to announce himself commander for the French King in the war he designs
to wage in England, and to propose a cartel for the exchange of prisoners.  No answer has been
made to this rebel; but the King has acquainted the Parliament with this audacious message.
We have a vast fleet at sea; and the main body of the Duke's army is coming down to the coast
to prevent their landing, if they should slip our ships.  Indeed, I can't believe they will
attempt coming hither, as they must hear of the destruction of the rebels in England; but they
will probably, dribble away to Scotland, where the war may last considerably.  Into England,
I scarce believe the Highlanders will be drawn again:--to have come as far as Derby--to have
found no rising in their favour, and to find themselves not strong enough to fight either army,
will make lasting impressions!

Vernon, I hear, is recalled for his absurdities, and at his own request, and Martin named for
his successor.(1150) We had yesterday a very remarkable day in the House: the King notified
his having sent for six thousand Hessians into Scotland.  Mr. Pelham, for an address of thanks.
Lord Cornbury (indeed, an exceedingly honest man(1151)) was for thanking for the notice, not
for the sending for the troops; and proposed to add a representation of the national being
the only constitutional troops, and to hope we should be exonerated of these foreigners as
soon as possible.  Pitt, and that clan, joined him; but the voice of the House, and the desires
of the whole kingdom for all the troops we can get, were so strong, that, on the division,
we were 190 to 44: I think and hope this will produce some Hanoverians too. That it will produce
a dismission of the Cobhamites is pretty certain; the Duke of Bedford and Lord Gower arc warm
for both points. The latter has certainly renounced Jacobitism.

Boetslaar is come again from Holland, but his errand not yet known.  You will have heard of
another victory,(1152) which the Prussian has gained over the Saxons; very bloody on both sides--but
now he is master of Dresden.

We again think that we have got the second son,(1153) under the name of Macdonald.  Nobody
is permitted to see any of the prisoners.

In the midst of our political distresses, which, I assure you, have reduced the town to a state
of Presbyterian dulness, we have been entertained with the marriage of the Duchess of Bridgewater(1154)
and Dick Lyttelton - she, forty, plain, very rich, and with five children; he, six-and-twenty,
handsome, poor, and proper to get her five more.  I saw, the other day, a very good Irish letter.
A gentleman in Dublin, full of the great qualities  of my Lord Chesterfield, has written a
panegyric on them, particularly on his affability and humility; with a comparison between him
and the hauteur of all other lord-lieutenants.  As an instance, he says, the earl was invited
to a great dinner, whither he went, by mistake, at one, instead of three.  The master was not
at home, the lady not dressed, every thing in confusion.  My lord was so humble as to dismiss
his train and take a hackney-chair, and went and stayed with Mrs. Phipps till dinner-time--la
belle humilit`e!

I am not at all surprised to hear of my cousin Don Sebastian's stupidity.  Why, child, he cannot
articulate; how would you have had him educated?  Cape Breton, Bastia, Martinico! if we are
undone this year, at least we go out with `eclat.  Good night.

1146) Villas of the Florentine nobility.

(1147) "Now few there were," says Captain Daniel, in his MS. Memoirs, " who would go on foot
if they could ride; and mighty taking, stealing, and pressing of horses there was amongst us!
Diverting it was to see the Highlanders mounted, without either breeches, saddle, or any thing
else but the bare back of the horses to ride on; and for their bridle, only a straw rope! 
in this manner do we march out of England." See Lord Mahon's Hist. vol. iii. p. 449.-E.

(1148) Sir Thomas Watson Wentworth, Knight of the Bath and Earl of Malton. [In April 1746,
he was advanced to the dignity of Marquis of Rockingham.  He died in 1750, was succeeded by
his second son, Charles Watson Wentworth, second marquis; on whose death, in 1782, all the
titles became extinct.]

(1149) Brother of the titular Duke of Perth. [And a general officer in the French army.  "The
amount of supplies brought by him reminds us," says Sir Walter Scott, "of those administered
to a man perishing of famine, by a comrade, who dropped into his mouth, from time to time,
a small shelfish, affording nutriment enough to keep the sufferer from dying, but not sufficient
to restore him to active exertion."]

(1150) On the 2d of January, Admiral Vernon, having arrived in the Downs from a cruise, struck
his flag; upon which, Admiral Martin took the command, in his room.-E.

(1151) Henry Hyde, only son of Henry, the last Earl of Clarendon.  He was called up to the
House of Peers, by the style of Lord Hyde, and died unmarried, before his father, at Paris, 1753.

On the death of the earl, a few months after his son, the viscounty of Cornbury and earldom
of Clarendon became extinct.-E.]

(1152) The battle of Kesselsdorf, gained by Prince Leopold of Anhalt Dessau over the Saxon
army, commanded by Count Rutowsky.  This event took place on the 15th of December, and was
followed by the taking of Dresden by the King of Prussia.-D.

(1153) Henry Stuart, afterwards Cardinal of York.  This intelligence did not prove true.-D.

(1154) lady Rachel Russel, eldest sister of John, Duke of Bedford, and widow of Scrope Egerton,
Duke of Bridgewator; married to her second husband, Colonel Richard Lyttelton, brother of Sir
George Lyttelton, and afterwards Knight of the Bath.

460 Letter 191 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan, 3, 1746.

I deferred writing to you till I could tell you that the rebellion was at an end in England.
The Duke has taken Carlisle, but was long enough before it to prove how basely or cowardly
it was yielded to the rebel: you will see the particulars' in the Gazette.  His Royal Highness
is expected in town every day; but I still think it probable that he will go to Scotland.(1155)
That country is very clamorous for it. If the King does send him, it should not be with that
sword of mercy with which the present family have governed those people.  All the world agrees
in the fitness of severity to highwaymen, for the sake of the innocent who suffer; then can
rigour be ill-placed against banditti. who have so terrified, pillaged, and injured the poor
people in Cumberland, Lancashire, Derbyshire, and the counties through which this rebellion
has stalked? There is a military magistrate of some fierceness sent into Scotland with Wade's
army, who is coming to town; it is General Hawley.(1156)  He will not sow the seeds of future
disloyalty by too easily pardoning the present.

The French still go on with their preparations at Dunkirk and their sea-ports; but I think,
few people believe now that they will be exerted against us: we have a numerous fleet in the
Channel, and a large army on the shores opposite to France. The Dutch fear that all this storm
is to burst on them.  Since the Queen's making peace with Prussia, the Dutch are applying to
him for protection; and I am told, wake from their neutral lethargy.

We are in a good quiet state here in town; the Parliament is reposing itself for the holidays;
the ministry is in private agitation; the Cobham part of the coalition is going to be disbanded;
Pitt's wild ambition cannot content itself with what he had asked, and had granted: and he
has driven Lyttelton and the Grenvilles to adopt all his extravagances. But then, they are
at 'variance again within themselves: Lyttelton's wife(1157) hates Pitt, and does not approve
his governing her husband and hurting their family; so that, at present, it seems, he does
not care to be a martyr to Pitt's caprices, which are in excellent training; for he is governed
by her mad Grace of Queensberry.  All this makes foul weather; but, to me, it is only a cloudy
landscape.

The Prince has dismissed Hume Campbell(1158) who was his solicitor, for attacking Lord Tweedale(1159)
on the Scotch affairs: the latter has resigned the seals of secretary of state for Scotland
to-day.  I conclude, when the holidays are over, and the rebellion travelled so far back, we
shall have warm inquiries in Parliament.  This is a short letter, I perceive; but I know nothing
more; and the Carlisle part of it will make you wear, your beaver more erect than I believe
you have of late.  Adieu!

(1155) The Duke of Cumberland entered Carlisle on the 31 st of December; but his pursuit of
the Highlanders in person was interrupted by despatches, which called him to London, to be
ready to take command against the projected invasion from France.-E.

(1156) "Hawley," says Lord Mahon, "was an officer of some experience, but destitute of capacity,
and hated, not merely by his enemies, but by his own soldiers, for a most violent and vindictive
temper.  One of his first measures, on arriving at Edinburgh, to take the chief command, was
to order two gibbets to be erected, ready for the rebels who might fall into his hands; and,
with a similar view, he bid several executioners attend his army on his march." Vol. ii. p. 357.

(1157) Lucy Fortescue, sister of Lord Clinton, first wife of Sir George, afterwards Lord Lyttelton.
[She died in January 1747, at the age of twenty-nine.

(1158) twin-brother to the Earl of Marchmont; who, in his Diary .of the 2d of January, says,
"My brother told me he had been, last night, with Mr. Drax, the Prince's secretary, when he
had notified to him that the Prince expected all his family to go together to support the measures
of the administration, and that, as Mr. Hume did not act so, he was to write him a letter,
discharging him, In the conversation, Mr. Drax said, that the Prince was to support the Pelhams,
and that his dismission was to be ascribed to Lord Granville.  My brother said, that he had
nothing to say to the Prince, other than that he would support all the measures he thought
conducive to the King's interests, but no others."-E.

(1159) The Marquis of Tweedale was one of the discontented Whigs, during the administration
of Sir Robert Walpole; on whose removal he came to court, and was made secretary of state,
attaching himself to Lord Granville's faction, whose youngest daughter, Frances, he afterwards
married, He was reckoned a good civilian, but was a very dull man.

461 Letter 192 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 17,1746.,

It is a very good symptom, I can tell you, that I write to you seldom -. it is a fortnight
since my last; and nothing material has happened in this interval.  The rebels are intrenching
and fortifying themselves in Scotland; and what a despicable affair is a rebellion upon the
defensive! General Hawley is marched from Edinburgh, to put it quite out.  I must give you
some idea of this man, who will give a mortal blow to the pride of the Scotch nobility.  He
is called Lord chief Justice; frequent and sudden executions are his passion.  Last winter
he had intelligence of a spy to come from the French army: the first notice our army had of
his arrival, was by seeing him dangle on a gallows in his mufti and boots.  One of the surgeons
of the army begged the body of a soldier who was hanged for desertion, to dissect: "Well,"
said Hawley, "but then you shall give me the skeleton to hang up in the guard-room." He is
very brave and able; with no small bias to the brutal.  Two years ago, when he arrived at Ghent,
the magistrates, according to customs sent a gentleman, with the offer of a sum Of money to
engage his favour.  He told the gentleman, in great wrath, that the King his master paid him,
and that he should go tell the magistrates so; at the same time dragging him to the head of
the stairs, and kicking him down.  He then went to the town-hall; on their refusing him entrance,
he burst open the door with his foot, and seated himself abruptly: told them how he had been
affronted, was persuaded they had no hand in it, and demanded to have the gentleman given up
to him, who never dared to appear in the town while he stayed in it.  Now I am telling you
anecdotes of him, you shall hear two more.  When the Prince of Hesse, our son-in-law, arrived
at Brussels, and found Hawley did not wait on him, the Prince sent to know if he expected the
first visit?  He replied, "He always expected that inferior officers should wait on their commanders;
and not only that, but he gave his Highness but half an hour to consider of it." The Prince
went to him.  I believe I told you of Lord John Drummond sending a drum to Wade to propose
a cartel.  Wade returned a civil answer, which had the King's and council's approbation.  When
the drummer arrived with it at Edinburgh, Hawley opened it and threw it into the fire, would
not let the drummer go back, but made him write to Lord J. "That rebels were not to be treated
with." If you don't think that spirit like this will do-do you see, I would not give a farthing
for your presumption.(1160)

The French invasion is laid aside; we are turning our hands to war again upon the continent.
The House of Commons is something of which I can give YOU no description: Mr. Pitt, the meteor
of it, Is neither yet in place, nor his friends out.  Some Tories oppose: Mr. Pelham is distressed,
and has vast majorities.  When the scene clears a little, I will tell you more of it.

The two last letters I have had from you, are of December 21 and January 4. You was then still
in uneasiness; by this time I hope you have no other distresses than are naturally incident
to your miny-ness.

I never hear any thing of the Countess(1161) except just now, that she is grown tired of sublunary
affairs, and willing to come to a composition with her lord: I believe that the price will
be two thousand a-year.  The other day, his and her lawyers were talking over the affair before
her and several other people: her counsel, in the heat of the dispute, said to my lord's lawyers,
"Sir, Sir, we shall be able to prove that her ladyship was denied nuptial rights and conjugal
enjoyments for seven years." It was excellent! My lord must have had matrimonial talents indeed,
to have reached to Italy; besides, you know, she made it a point after her son was born, not
to sleep with her husband.

Thank you for the little medal.  I am glad I have nothing more to tell you-you little expected
that we should so soon recover our tranquility.  Adieu!

(1160) Glover, in his Memoirs, speaks of Hawley with great contempt, and talks of "his beastly
ignorance and negligence," which occasioned the loss of the battle of Falkirk.-D.

(1161) Lady Orford.

463 Letter 193 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 28, 1746.

Do they send you the gazettes as they used to do? If you have them, you will find there an
account of another battle lost in Scotland. Our arms cannot succeed there.  Hawley, of whom
I said so much to you in my last, has been as unsuccessful as Cope, and by almost every circumstance
the same, except that Hawley had less want of skill and much more presumption.  The very same
dragoons ran away at Falkirk, that ran away at Preston Pans.(1162)  Though we had seven thousand
men, and the rebels but five, we had scarce three regiments that behaved well.  General Huske
and Brigadier Cholmondeley,(1163) my lord's brother, shone extremely - the former beat the
enemy's. right wing; and the latter, by rallying two regiments, prevented the pursuit.  Our
loss is trifling: for many of the rebels fled as fast as the glorious dragoons- but we have
lost some good officers, particularly Sir Robert Monroe; and seven pieces of cannon.  A worse
loss is apprehended, Stirling Castle, which could hold out but ten days; and that term expires
to-morrow.  The Duke is gone post to Edinburgh, where he hoped to arrive to-night; if possible,
to relieve Stirling. Another battle will certainly be fought before you receive this; I hope
with the Hessians in it, who are every hour expected to land in Scotland.  With many other
glories, the English courage seems gone too! The great dependence is upon the Duke; the soldiers
adore him, and with reason: he has a lion's courage, vast vigilance and activity, and, I am
told, great military genius.  For my own particular, I am uneasy that he is gone: Lord Bury
and Mr. Conway, two of his aides-de-camp, and brave as he, are gone with him.  The ill behaviour
of the soldiers lays a double obligation on the officers to set them examples of running on
danger.  The ministry would have kept back Mr. Conway, as being in Parliament; which when the
Duke told him, he burst into tears, and said nothing should hinder his going--and he is gone!
Judge, if I have not reason to be alarmed!

Some Of our prisoners in Scotland (the former Prisoners) are returned.  They had the Privilege
of walking about the town, where they were confined, upon their parole: the militia of the
country rose and set them at liberty.  General Hawley is so strict as to think they should
be sent back; but nobody here comprehends such refinement: they could not give their word that
the town should not be taken.  There are two or three others, who will lay the government under
difficulties, when we have got over the rebellion.  They were come to England on their parole;
and when the executions begin, they must in honour be given up--the question indeed will be,
to whom?

Adieu! my dear sir!  I write you this short letter, rather than be taxed with negligence on
such an event; though, YOU perceive, I know nothing but what you will se in the printed papers.

P.S. The Hessians would not act, because we would not settle a cartel with rebels!

(1162) "Hawley was never seen in the field during the battle; and every thing would have gone
to wreck, in a worse manner than at Preston, if General Huske had not acted with judgment and
courage, and appeared every where." Culloden Papers, p. 267.-E.

(1163) The Hon.  James Cholmondeley, second son of George, second Earl of Cholmondeley.  He
served with distinction both in Flanders and Scotland.  In 1750, he became colonel of the Inniskillen
regiment of dragoons; and died in 1775.-D.

464 Letter 194 To Sir Horace MANN. Arlington Street Feb. 7, 1746.

Till yesterday that I received your last of January 27, I was very uneasy at finding you still
remained under the same anxiety about the rebellion, when it had so long ceased to be formidable
with us: but you have got all my letters, and are out of your pain.  Hawley's defeat (or at
least what was called so, for I am persuaded that the victory was ours as far as there was
any fighting, which indeed lay in a very small compass, the great body of each army running
away) will have thrown you back into your terrors; but here is a letter to calm you again.
All Monday and Tuesday we were concluding that the battle between the Duke and the rebels must
be fought, and nothing was talked of but the expectation of the courier.  He did arrive indeed
on Wednesday morning, but with no battle; for the moment the rebel army saw the Duke's, they
turned back with the utmost precipitation; spiked their cannon, blew up their magazine, and
left behind them their wounded and our prisoners.  They crossed the Forth, and in one day fled
four-and-thirty miles to Perth, where, as they have strong intrenchments, some imagine they
will wait to fight; but their desertion is too great; the whole clan of the macdonalds, one
of their best has retired on the accidental death of their chief.  In short, it looks exceedingly
like the conclusion of this business, though the French have embarked Fitzjames's regiment
at Ostend for Scotland.  The Duke's name disperses armies, as the Pretender's raised them.

The French seem to be at the eve of taking Antwerp and Brussels, the latter of which is actually
besieged.  In this case I don't see how we can send an army abroad this summer, for there will
be no considerable towns in Flanders left in the possession of the Empress-Queen.

The new regiments, of which I told you so much, have again been in dispute: as their term was
near expired, the ministry proposed to continue them for four months longer.  This was last
Friday, when, as we every hour expected the news of a conclusive battle, which, if favourable,
would render them useless, Mr. Fox, the general against the new regiments, begged it might
only be postponed till the following Wednesday, but 170 against 89 voted them that very day.
On the very Wednesday came the news of the flight of the rebels; and two days before that,
news from Chester of Lord Gower's new regiment having mutinied, on hearing that they were to
be continued beyond the term for which they had listed.

At court all is confusion-. the King, at Lord Bath's instigation, has absolutely refused to
make Pitt secretary at war.(1164)  How this will end, I don't know, but I don't believe in
bloodshed: neither side is famous for being incapable of yielding.

I wish you joy of having the Chutes again, though I am a little sorry that their bravery was
not rewarded by staying at Rome till they could triumph in their turn: however, I don't believe
that at Florence you want opportunities of exulting. That Monro you mention was made travelling
physician by my father's interest, who had great regard for the old doctor.(1165)  if he has
any skill in quacking madmen, his art may perhaps be of service now in the Pretender's court.

I beg my eagle may not come till it has the opportunity of a man-of-war: we have lost so many
merchantmen lately, that I should never expect to receive it that way.

I can say nothing to your opinion of the young Pretender being a cheat; nor, as the rebellion
is near at end, do I see what end it would answer to prove him original or spurious. However,
as you seem to dwell upon it, I will mention it again to my uncle.

I hear that my sister-Countess is projecting her return, being quite sick of England, where
nobody visits her.  She says there is not one woman of sense in England.  Her journey, however,
will have turned to account, and, I believe, end in almost doubling her allowance. Adieu! my
dear child; love the Chutes for me as well as for yourself.

(1164) Lord Marchmont, in his Diary of Feb. 9, says, "My brother told me, that on the ministry
insisting on Mr. Pitt being secretary at war, and the King having said he should not be his
secretary, Lord Bath had gone to the King and told him, though he had resolved never to take
a place, yet now, finding his ministers would force a servant on him, rather than he should
be so used, he would undertake to get him his money. The King said. the ministers had the Parliament;
Lord Bath said, his Majesty had it, and not they: and that hereupon the King thanked him; and
it was expected the ministers would all be out."-E.

(1165) In 1743, Dr. John Monro was appointed, through the influence of Sir Robert Walpole,
to one of the Radcliffe travelling fellowships.  In 1752, he succeeded his father as physician
to Bridewell and Bethlehem Hospitals.  In 1758, he published "Remarks on Dr. Battie's Treatise
on Madness," in which he vindicated his father's treatment of that disorder. He died in 1791.-E.

466 Letter 195 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 14, 1746.

By the relation I am going to make, you will think that I am describing Turkish, not English
revolutions; and will cast your eye upwards to see if my letter is not dated from Constantinople.
Indeed, violent as the changes have been, there has been no bloodshed; no Grand Vizier has
had a cravat made of a bowstring, no Janizaries have taken upon them to alter the succession,
no Grand Signior is deposed--only his Sublime Highness's dignity has been a little impaired.
Oh! I forgot; I ought not to frighten you; you will interpret all these fine allusions, and
think on the rebellion--pho! we are such considerable proficients in politics, that we can
form rebellions within rebellions, and turn a government topsy-turvy at London, while we are
engaged in a civil war in Scotland.  In short, I gave you a hint last week of an insurrection
in the closet, and of Lord Bath having prevented Pitt from being secretary at war.  The ministry
gave up that point; but finding that a change had been made in a scheme of foreign politics,
which they had laid before the King, and for which he had thanked them; and perceiving some
symptoms of a resolution to dismiss them at the end of the session, they came to a sudden determination
not to do Lord Granville's business by carrying the supplies, and then to be turned out: so
on Monday morning, to the astonishment of every body, the two secretaries of state threw up
the seals; and the next day Mr. Pelham, with the rest of the Treasury, the Duke of Bedford
with the Admiralty, Lord Gower, privy seal, and Lord Pembroke,' groom of the stole, gave up
too - the Dukes of Devonshire, Grafton, and Richmond, the Lord Chancellor, Winnington, paymaster,
and almost all the other great officers and offices, declaring they would do the same.  Lord
Granville immediately received both seals, one for himself, and the other to give to whom he
pleased.  Lord Bath was named first commissioner of the treasury and chancellor of the exchequer;
Lord Carlisle, privy seal, and Lord Winchilsea reinstated in the Admiralty.  Thus far all went
swimmingly; they had only forgot one little point, which was, to secure a majority in both
Houses: in the Commons they unluckily found that they had no better man to take the lead than
poor Sir John Rushout, for Sir John Barnard refused to be chancellor of the exchequer; so did
Lord Chief Justice Willes to be lord chancellor; and the wildness of the scheme soon prevented
others, who did not wish ill to Lord Granville, or well to the Pelhams, from giving in to it.
Hop, the Dutch minister, did not a little increase the confusion by declaring that he had immediately
despatched a courier to Holland, and did not doubt but the States would directly send to accept
the terms of France.

I should tell you too, that Lord Bath's being of the enterprise contributed hugely to poison
the success of it.  In short, his lordship, whose politics were never characterized by steadiness,
found that he had not courage enough to take the Treasury.  You may guess how ill laid his
schemes were, when be durst not indulge both his ambition and avarice! In short, on Wednesday
morning (pray mind, this was the very Wednesday after the Monday on which the chance had happened,)
he went to the King, and told him he had tried the House of Commons, and found it would not
do!(1167)  Bounce! went all the project into shivers, like the vessels in Ben Jonson's Alchymist,
when they are on the brink of the philosopher's stone.  The poor King, who, from being fatigued
with the Duke of Newcastle, and sick of Pelham's timidity and compromises, had given in to
this mad hurly-burly of alterations, was confounded with having floundered to no purpose, and
to find himself more than ever in the power of men he hated, shut himself up in his closet,
and refused to admit any more of the persons who were pouring in upon him with white sticks,
and golden keys, and commissions, etc.  At last he sent for Winnington, and told him, he was
the only honest man about him, and he should have the honour of a reconciliation, and sent
him to Mr. Pelham to desire they would all return to their employments.(1168)

Lord Granville is as jolly as ever; laughs and drinks, and owns it was mad, and owns he -would
do it again to-morrow.  It would not be quite so safe, indeed, to try it soon again, for the
triumphant party are not at all in the humour to be turned out every time his lordship has
drunk a bottle too much; and that House of Commons that he could not make do for him, would
do to send him to the Tower till he was sober.  This was the very worst period he could have
selected, when the fears of men had made them throw themselves absolutely into all measures
of Government to secure the government itself; and that temporary strength of Pelham has my
Lord Granville contrived to fix to him: and people will be glad to ascribe to the Merit and
virtue of the ministry, what they would be ashamed to Own, but was really the effect of their
own apprehensions.  It was a good idea Of somebody, when no man would accept a place under
the new system, that Granville and Bath were met going about the streets, calling odd man!
as the hackney chairman do when they want a partner.  This little faction of Lord Granville
goes by the name of the Grandvillains.

There! who would think that I had written you an entire history
 in the compass of three sides of paper?(1169)  ***Vertot
would have composed a volume on this event. and entitled it,
the Revolutions of England.  You will wonder at not having it
notified to you by Lord Granville himself, as is customary for
new secretaries of state: when they mentioned to him writing
to Italy, he said-"To Italy! no: before the courier can get
thither, I shall be out again."  it absolutely makes one
laugh: as serious as the consequences might be, it is
impossible to hate a politician of such jovial good-humour.  I
am told that he ordered the packet-boat to be stopped at
Harwich till Saturday, till he should have time to determine
what he would write to Holland.  This will make the Dutch
receive the news of the double revolution at the same instant.

Duke and his name are pursuing the scattered rebels into their very mountains, determined to
root out sedition entirely.  It is believed, and we expect to hear, that the young Pretender
is embarked and gone.  Wish the Chutes joy of the happy conclusion of this affair!

Adieu! my dear child!  After describing two revolutions, and announcing the termination of
a rebellion, it would be below the dignity of my letter to talk of any thing of less moment.
Next post I may possibly descend out of my historical buskin, and converse with you more familiarly--en
attendant, gentle reader, I am, your sincere well-wisher,

Horace Walpole, Historiographer to the high and mighty Lord John, Earl Granville.

(1166) Henry Herbert, ninth Earl of Pembroke, an intelligent lover of the arts, and an amateur
architect of considerable merit.  Walpole says of him, in his account of Sculptors and Architects,
The soul of Inigo Jones, who had been patronised by his ancestors, seemed still to hover over
its favourite Wilton, and to have assisted the Muses of Arts in the education of this noble
person.  No man had a purer taste in building than Earl Henry, of which he gave a few specimens:
besides his works at Wilton, the new Lodge in Windsor Park; the Countess of Suffolk's house,
at Marble Hill, Twickenham; the Water-house, in Lord Orford's park at Houghton, are incontestable
proofs of Lord Pembroke's taste: it was more than taste; it was passion for the utility and
honour of his country that engaged his lordship to promote and assiduously overlook the construction
of Westminster Bridge by the ingenious M. Lahelye, a man that deserves more notice than this
slight encomium can bestow." He died in January 1750-1.-E.

(1167) "Feb. 13.  Lord Bolingbroke told me, that Bath had resigned, and all was now over. 
He approved of what had been done, though he owned that Walpole'S faction had done what he
had wrote every King must expect who nurses up a faction by governing by a party; and that
it was a most indecent thing, and must render the King contemptible.  Lord Cobham told me,
that the King had yesterday sent Winnington to stop the resignations; that he had offered Winnington
the seat of exchequer, after Bath had resigned it; but Winnington said it would not do.  At
court I met Lord Granville, who is still secretary, but declared to be ready to resign when
the King pleases." Marchmont Diary.-E.

(1168) In a letter to the Duke of Newcastle, of the 18th, Lord Chesterfield says, " Your victory
is complete: for God's sake pursue it.  Good policy still more than resentment, requires that
Granville and Bath should be marked-out,'and all their people cut off.  Every body now sees
and knows that you have the power; let them see and know too, that you will use it.  A general
run ought to be made upon Bath by all your followers and writers."-E.

(1169) The projectors of this ,attempt to remove the ministers were overwhelmed with ridicule.
Among other jeux d'esprit, was "A History of the Long Administration," bound up like the works
printed for children, and sold for a penny; and of which one would suspect Walpole to be the
author.  It concluded as follows: "And thus endeth the second and last part of this astonishing
administration, which lasted forty-eight hours, three quarters, seven minutes, and eleven seconds;
which may be truly called the most wise and most Honest of all administrations, the minister
having, to the astonishment of all wise men, never transacted one rash thing, and, what is
more marvellous, left as much money in the treasury as he found in it.  This worthy history
I have faithfully recorded in this mighty volume, that it may be read with the valuable works
of our immortal countryman, Thomas Thumb, by our children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren,
to the end of the world:'-E.

469 Letter 196 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, March 6, 1746.

I know I have missed two or three posts, but you have lost nothing: you perhaps expected that
our mighty commotions did not subside at once, and that you should still hear of struggles
and more shocks; but it all ended at once; with only some removals and promotions which you
saw in the Gazette.  I should have written, however, but I have been hurried with my sister'S(1170)
wedding; but all the ceremony of that too is over now, and the dinners and the visits.

The rebellion has fetched breath; the dispersed clans have reunited and marched to Inverness,
from whence Lord Loudon was forced to retreat, leaving a garrison in the castle, which has
since yielded without firing a gun.  Their numbers are now reckoned at seven thousand: old
Lord lovat(1171) has carried them a thousand Frasers.  The French continually drop them a ship
or two: we took two, with the Duke of Berwick's brother on board: it seems evident that they
design to keep up our disturbances as long as possible, to prevent our sending any troops to
Flanders.  Upon the prospect of the rebellion being at an end, the Hessians were ordered back,
but luckily were not gone; and now are quartered to prevent the rebels slipping the Duke, (who
is marching to them,) and returning into England.  This counter-order was given in the morning,
and in the evening came out the Gazette, and said the Hessians are to go away.  This doubling
style in the ministry is grown so characteristic, that the French are actually playing a farce,
in which harlequin enters, as an English courier, with two bundles of despatches fastened to
his belly and his back: they ask him what the one is? "Eh! Ces sont mes ordres." and what the
other?  "Mais elles sont mes contre-ordres."

We have been a little disturbed in some other of our politics, by the news of the King of Sardinia
having made his peace: I think it comes out now that he absolutely had concluded one with France,
but that the haughty court of Spain rejected it: what the Austrian pride had driven him to,
the Spanish pride drove him from.  You will allow that our affairs are critically bad, when
all our hopes centre in that honest monarch, the King of Prussia-but so it is: and I own I
see nothing that can restore us to being a great nation but his interposition.  Many schemes
are framed, of making him Stadtholder of Holland, or Duke of Burgundy in Flanders, in lieu
of the Silesias, or altogether, and that I think would follow-but I don't know how far any
of these have been carried into propositions.

I see by your letters that our fomentations of the Corsican rebellion have had no better success
than the French tampering in ours-for ours, I don't expect it will be quite at an end, till
it is made one of the conditions of peace, that they shall give it no assistance.

The smallpox has been making great havoc in London; the new Lord Rockingham,(1172) whom I believe
you knew when only Thomas Watson, is dead of it, and the title extinct.  My Lady Conway(1173)
has had it, but escaped.

