The little waif, cast to the mercy of the wind and the flood, did not sink. God watched over
it. The wooden cradle became a tiny boat; the baby waked up, stretched out his little hands,
and cried; then, in the midst of frightful peril, fell asleep again, rocked by the motion of
the stream.

At length the day broke, a cold gray mist seeming to blot out everything except the sheet of
water, which was of a muddy and yellow color, and rolled along with giddy swiftness, gathering
everything in its course. In some places the trees had their roots under water, and their branches,
still dry, gave shelter to whole families. These cried out:

"Oh, look at the little baby! Who will save it?"

But the cradle sailed on, while the trees often bent beneath the wave. The boiling eddies of
the current swallowed many objects, and caught the cradle, and spun it about in circles as
if it had been a walnut shell, until the baby cried with fear; but then a friendly wave was
sure to rescue it, and once more bear it onward.

Ah, at last! The poor baby must be drowned. A great tree had fallen into the river, with all
its tangled roots high in the air, and the stream snapped off the smaller twigs and branches
as it moved along. Every moment it struck some floating object with its gnarled roots and forest
of branches; occasionally the shock was so great that the trunk rolled from side to side; but
the object always sank, whether broken boat or dead animal; while the tree floated on. The
baby's cradle was alone on the waste of waters; the tree approached slowly and surely. The
cradle tossed up and down, and then--the forked branches caught and held it firmly just above
the water-line. The tree became a raft.

The young King Alfonso of Spain stood on the shore, near a town, surrounded by officers in
brilliant uniforms. Large boats full of his guards had ventured out from shore to try to save
objects swept down from the country. They saw a tree with a cradle caught in the branches.
Was the cradle empty? No, a little black head could be distinguished inside. Bravely the boat
approached; the tree swerved about, and struck it so rudely that it nearly upset; but at that
moment the soldier in the bow leaned over, and caught the baby by his little gown. Away whirled
the tree on the swift tide, and the cradle, detached by the shock, drifted apart, overturned.

How the people ran about and talked! How the women cried, and caressed the little stranger
thus safely brought to shore! The King saw it all, and approached.

"He shall be my child, and I will adopt him," he said.

"May he grow up to serve you, sire!" said one of the councillors, who wore a glittering star
on his breast.

Then the "King's Baby," saved in a little wooden cradle from the perils of the night, crowed
and smiled.

GEORGE WASHINGTON.

  He was black as the ace of spades, you see,
  And scarcely as high as a tall man's knee;
  He wore a hat that was minus a brim,
  But that, of course, mattered nothing to him;
  His jacket--or what there was left of it--
  Scorned his little black shoulders to fit;
  And as for stockings and shoes, dear me!
  Nothing about such things knew he.

  He sat on the curb-stone one pleasant day,
  Placidly passing the hours away;
  His hands in the holes which for pockets were meant,
  His thoughts on the clouds overhead were intent;
  When down the street suddenly, marching along,
  Came soldiers and horses, and such a great throng
  Of boys and of men, as they crowded the street,
  With a "Hip, hip, hurrah!" the lad sprang to his feet,

