I have heard it said, that, at the first performance of The Critic, Sheridan had adopted, as
the representative of Lord Burleigh, an actor whose "looks profound" accorded with his "ignorance;"
but who, until then, had only aspired to the livery of the theatre--the placing of chairs,
or the presentation of a letter; yet who, in this humble display of histrionic art, generally
contrived to commit some egregious blunder. He was remonstrated with, on his choice, by one
of the performers, who demonstrated the excessive dulness of apprehension of the would-be Minister
of State; and, like other and recent instances in that capacity, his singular aptitude to error,
however simple the part he had to enact, or clear and concise the instructions with which it
might be accompanied. As Sheridan had planned the character, the face was every thing, and
the lengthened, dull, and inexpressive visage of the subject was too strictly ministerial to
be lost; and the author would, as he said, "defy him to go wrong," Still his friend was sceptical;
nor were his doubts removed by Sheridan's assuring him that the representative of Lord Burleigh
"would have only to look wise, shake his head, and hold his tongue;" and he so far persisted
as to lay a bet with the author that some capital blunder would nevertheless occur. The wager
was accepted, and, in the fulness of his confidence, Sheridan insisted that the actor should
not even rehearse the part, and yet that he should get through with it satisfactorily to the
public and himself on the night of the first performance. It came. The arbiter of hopes and
fears appeared in all the "bearded majesty" of the age of Elizabeth; and, flattered by the
preference of the great author, had carefully conned over the following instructions:--"Mr.
----, as Lord Burleigh, will advance from the prompter's side;--proceed to the front of the
stage;--fall back to where Mr. G---- stands as Sir Christopher Hatton,--shake his head and
exit." The important moment came. With "stately step and slow," Lord Burleigh advanced in face
of the audience. "Capital!" exclaimed the gratified author;--with equal correctness he retreated
to the side of Sir Christopher, without literally falling back, which Sheridan had for a moment
doubted might be the case. "Good! a lucky escape though." half faltered the anxious poet. "Now!
now!" he continued, with eager delight at having got so far so well; but, what was his horror,
when his unlucky pupil, instead of shaking his own blundering head, in strict but unfortunate
interpretation of his orders, took that of Sir Christopher within his hands, shook it long
and manfully, and then walked off with a look of exultation at having so exactly complied with
his lesson.--New Monthly Magazine.

WONDERFUL PECULIARITY IN THE ENGLISH CHARACTER!

The French, however wretched may be their condition, are attached to life, while the English
frequently detest life in the midst of affluence and splendour. English criminals are not dragged,
but run to the place of execution, where they laugh, sing, cut jokes, insult the spectators;
and if no hangman happens to be present, frequently hang themselves.--Memoirs of Lewis Holberg.

       *       *       *       *       *

STANZAS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "FIELD FLOWERS," &C.

(For the Mirror.)

    I smiled, for not a cloud was seen o'er the blue heaven's expanse,
    As summer's myriad insect tribe led on the winged dance;
    The gaudy butterfly was there ranging from flower to flower,
    And by its side the wild bee humm'd amid the woodbine bower.

    I sighed, for when I looked again the sky was overcast,
    The summer insect's winged dance was o'er, yet on I past,
    The gaudy butterfly was gone, the bee away had fled,
    While on each fairest, brightest flower the wasteful locust fed.

    Yet e'en this simple scene to youth a moral shall convey,
    Since thus full oft misfortune's clouds obscure life's summer ray;
    To-day we smile, for beauty smiles in all her spring-tide bloom--
    To-morrow sigh, for beauty's bower has now become her tomb!

H. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELECT BIOGRAPHY.

No. LVI.

       *       *       *       *       *

GILBERT BURNS.

Gilbert Burns was born about the year 1760. He was eighteen months younger than his brother
Robert, Scotland's most gifted bard. With him he was early inured to toil, and rendered familiar
with the hardships of the peasant's lot; like him, too, he was much subject to occasional depression
of spirits, and from whatever cause, he had contracted a similar bend or stoop in the shoulders;
his frame, like that of Robert, was cast in a manly and symmetrical mould. The profile of his
countenance resembled that of his brother, and their phrenological developments are said to
have been not dissimilar; the principal disparity lay in the form and expression of the eye,
which in Gilbert was fixed, sagacious, and steady--in Robert, almost "in a fine frenzy rolling."

Gibert Burns was the archetype of his father, a very remarkable man; his piety was equally
warm and sincere; and, in all the private relations of life, as an elder of the church, a husband,
a father, a master, and a friend, he was preeminent. His writings want that variety, originality,
and ease, which shine so conspicuously even in the prose works of the poet; but they have many
redeeming points about them. His taste was as pure as his judgment was masculine. He has been
heard to say, that the two most pleasurable moments of his life were--first, when he read Mackenzie's
story of La Roche, and secondly, when Robert took him apart, at the breakfast or dinner hour,
during harvest, and read to him, while seated on a barley sheaf, his MS. copy of the far-famed
Cotter's "Saturday Night."

When Robert Burns was invited by Dr. Blacklock to visit Edinburgh, Gilbert was struggling in
the unthrifty farm of Mosgiel, and toiling late and early to keep a house over the heads of
his aged mother and unprotected sisters. The poet's success was the first thing that stemmed
the ebbing tide of his fortunes. On settling with Mr. Creech, in February, 1788, he received,
as the profits of his second publication, about 500l.; and, with that generosity which formed
a part of his nature, he immediately presented Gilbert with nearly half of his whole wealth.
Thus succoured, Gilbert married a Miss Breconridge, and removed to a better farm at Dinning,
in Dumfriesshire. While there, he was recommended to Lady Blantyre, whose estates in East Lothian
he subsequently managed for nearly a quarter of a century. He died at Grant's Braes, in the
neighbourhood of Haddington, on one of the Blantyre farms, on the 8th of April. He had no fixed
complaint; but, for several months preceding his dissolution, a gradual decay of nature had
been apparent. It is probable that his death was accelerated by severe domestic afflictions;
as, on the 4th of January, he lost a daughter, who had long been the pride of his family hearth;
and, on the 26th of February following, his youngest son, a youth of great promise, died at
Edinburgh, of typhus fever, on the eve of his being licensed for the ministry. Mrs. Burns,
who brought him a family of six sons and five daughters, of whom five sons and one daughter
are living, survivors.

It ought to be mentioned that the two hundred pounds which Robert Burns lent to his brother,
in the year 1788, was not repaid till 1820. Gilbert was far from affluent; in early life he
had to struggle even for existence; and, therefore, to know that his aged mother and one or
two sisters, were properly supported, was, in the poet's eyes, a full acquittance of all claims.
The children of Robert viewed the subject in the same light. In 1819, Gilbert Burns was invited
by Messrs. Cadell and Davies, to revise a new edition of his brother's works; to supply whatever
he found wanting, and correct whatever he thought amiss. He accepted the invitation; and, by
appending much valuable matter to the late Dr. Currie's biography, he at once vindicated his
brother's memory from many aspersions which had been cast upon it, and established his own
credit as an author. On receiving payment for his labour, the first thing he did was, to balance
accounts, to the uttermost farthing, with the widow and family of his deceased brother. The
letter which accompanied the remittance of the money was, in the highest degree, creditable
to his feelings.

Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

No. XI.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPORTS OF THE BURMESE.

Shortly after our arrival at Prome we had an opportunity of witnessing some boxing and wrestling
matches, exercises which the Burmahs are very fond of, and which they pride themselves much
on excelling in. The challenge is given by stepping to the front, and with the right hand slapping
the left shoulder, at the same time taunting the opponent in order to excite him; the struggle
does not last long, and when ended, no animosity remains between the parties.

Another amusement of the Burman youth deserves mentioning on account of its singularity. This
is a game at ball, played by six or eight young men, formed in a circle; the ball is hollow,
and made of wicker work; and the art of the game consists in striking this upwards with the
foot, or the leg below the knee. As may be conceived, no little skill is required to keep the
ball constantly in motion; and I have often been much entertained in watching the efforts made
by the players to send the ball high in the air, so that it should fall within the limits of
the ring, when it is again tossed by the foot of another. The natives of Hindostan are not
acquainted with this game, but it is said to be common amongst the Chinese, Japanese, and other
nations east of the Ganges. But by far the most favourite amusements of the Burmahs are acting
and dancing, accompanied by music, which to my ear appeared very discordant, although occasionally
a few rather pleasing notes might be distinguished. The principal instrument used in the Burman
bands of music is the kiezoop, which is formed of a number of small gongs, graduated in size
and tone on the principle of the harmonica, and suspended in a circular frame about four feet
high and five feet wide; within which the performer stands, and extracts a succession of soft
tones, by striking on the gongs with two small sticks. Another circular instrument (the boundah)
serves as a bass; it contains an equal number of different-sized drums, on which the musician
strikes with violence, with a view perhaps to weaken the shrill, discordant notes of a very
rude species of flageolet, and of an equally imperfect kind of trumpet, which are usually played
with a total disregard of time, tune, or harmony. Two or three other instruments, similar in
principle to the violin, complete the orchestra. To Europeans, there was not much to admire
in the sounds produced by these instruments; neither did our music appear to have many charms
for the Burmahs, whom I have seen present at the performance of some of Rossini's most beautiful
airs, and of different martial pieces, by one of our best regimental bands, without expressing,
either by their words or gestures, the least satisfaction at what they heard.

In condemning, however, the Bunnaa instrumental music generally, I would observe, that some
of the vocal airs have a very pleasing effect when accompanied by the Patola. This is an instrument
made in the fantastic shape of an alligator; the body of it is hollow, with openings at the
back, and three strings only are used, which are supported by a bridge, as in a violin.

I chanced one day to meet with a young Burman who had been stone blind from his birth, but
who, gifted with great talent for music, used to console himself for his misfortune by playing
on this species of guitar, and accompanying his voice. When I expressed a wish to hear him
perform, he immediately struck out a most brilliant prelude, and then commenced a song, in
a bold tone, the subject of which was a prophecy that had been current at Rangoon before we
arrived. It predicted the appearance of numerous strangers at that place, and that two-masted
ships would sail up the Irrawaddy, when all trouble and sorrow would cease! Animated by his
subject, his voice gradually became bolder and more spirited, as well as his performance, and
without any hesitation he sung with much facility two or three stanzas composed extempore.

Changing suddenly from the enthusiastic tone, he commenced a soft plaintive love-song, and
then, after striking the chords for some time in a wild but masterly manner, retired. I confess
I felt much interested in this poor fellow's performance, he seemed so deeply to feel every
note he uttered, particularly at one time, when he touched upon his own misfortune, that it
appeared Providence, in ordaining he should never see, had endowed him with this "soul-speaking"
talent in some measure to indemnify him.

The Burmahs, generally speaking, are fond of singing, and, in some instances, I have heard
many very good songs. The war-boat song, for example, is remarkably striking. The recitative
of the leading songster, and then the swell of voices when the boatmen join in chorus, keeping
time with their oars, seemed very beautiful when wafted down the Irrawaddy by the breeze; and
the approach of a war-boat might always be known by the sound of the well-known air.

I have sometimes heard a trio sung in parts by three young girls, with a correctness of ear
and voice which would do credit to others than the self-taught Burmahs. Many little songs,
amongst others that commencing "Tekien, Tekien," were composed and sung by the Burman fair
in compliment to their new and welcome visiters, the white strangers; but these, of course,
are long since consigned to oblivion, unless they recollect with pleasure

    --"The grateful breath of song,
    That once was heard in happier hours;"

for it is very certain that the Bunnahs considered themselves quite happy, when enjoying the
transient glimpse of liberty, and the advantages of a just government which were offered them
during the short stay of the British army at Prome.

The Burman plays do not appear to be remarkable for the number of their dramatis personae.
In most there is a prince, a confidant, a buffoon or two, and a due proportion of female characters,
represented by boys dressed in female attire. The dresses are handsome; and in one which I
attended, the dialogue appeared to be lively and well supported, as far as I can judge from
the roars of laughter which resounded from the Burman part of the audience. One sentimental
scene, in which the loving prince takes leave of his mistress, and another where, after much
weeping and flirtation, she throws herself into his arms, were sufficiently intelligible to
us; but some, in which the jokes of the clown formed the leading feature, were quite lost upon
those who did not understand the language. The place chosen for the representation was a spot
of ground outside of our houses, the heat being very great; and here a circle was formed of
carpets and chairs, lighted by torches dipped in petroleum, which threw a brilliant flare around,
though accompanied by a most unpleasant odour.

Dancing succeeded, and one or two young women were the performers; like the Hindostanee Nautch,
it merely consisted in throwing the body and arms into numerous graceful and rather voluptuous
postures; at the same time advancing slowly, with a short steady step, and occasionally changing
it for a more lively figure.

All this time the drums, cymbals, and clarionets were unceasing in their discordant sounds,
and, before long, fairly drove me from the field.

Two Years in Ava.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

No. CVI.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROSALIE BERTON.

While passing some time in the south of France, I spent a few days at S----, a town on the
banks of the Loire, situated in that province, which, from its fertility and beauty, is usually
designated the garden of France.

S----, I had been informed, was a place famed alike for its vineyards and its pretty girls,
a coincidence certainly natural, since it fairly may be supposed, that the sun which ripens
the richest fruit in nature, should alike mature its sweetest flowers, and perfect the beauties
and the charms of that sex, which is literally "like the fair flower in its lustre." As the
friend, by whom I was accompanied, was well known in the place, we were soon introduced to
a circle of respectable families; and among others, to that of Berton, consisting of the father,
mother, and daughter.

Rosalie Berton was the belle of S----, or to borrow the far prettier French phrase, she was
"la perle de ville." And a sweet and lovely girl she was, as ever the eye of affection hailed
with delight. Her charms had something of a peculiar style and character; for, with the bright
black eyes, and fine dark hair of the south, were united the fair complexion and delicately
tinted cheek of a northern beauty. Her face was of a somewhat more pensive turn than usual,
and her meek, mild features, and soft dark eyes, bore traces of tender feeling and of gentle
thought; while so expressive was her countenance, that it responded, at will, to her feelings,
and the eye and the cheek which were one moment impressed with melancholy, beamed forth the
next with all the warmth of intelligence, affection, or delight. Her accomplishments were really
of a superior kind; she walked with more than the usual elegance of her country-women, and
danced with equal animation and grace. But her most attractive charm consisted in her voice,
which, though not particularly powerful, had a sweetness and a melody which were perfectly
delightful; so that never methinks have I heard a softer strain, than when that fair girl was
wont to sing to her guitar the simple ballads and sweet romances of her native land. And her
musical talents were enhanced by her gentle, complying disposition, and by the readiness with
which she obeyed every call on her exertions. From her music-master, who was a native of Italy,
she also learnt Italian, which she spoke with more fluency and correctness than is usual among
the French; she drew, moreover, with considerable taste. So affectionate and so amiable was
she, that she deserved all the encomiums of her friends and even their hyperbolical compliments
were scarcely extravagant when applied to her. She was literally "douce comme un ange, jolie
comme les amours;" and, as the ne plus ultra of merit in France, she was "tout a fait gentille."
She possessed also, considerable dramatic skill and tact, and would, I think, have proved a
delightful acquisition to the stage, from the skill she displayed in those little playful scenes,
with which the French delight to embellish life.

We were favoured with a specimen of her talents in this way, on the evening of our arrival.
It was the fete day of madame, the mother of Louise, and we were invited to be present. After
some time passed in taking refreshments, varied by dancing, conversation, &c., the little ceremony
of the evening commenced; the door opened, and a small but gay procession entered the room.
It consisted of several young persons, all friends of the family, headed by Louise, who was
charmingly dressed, and looked altogether most lovely. She bore her guitar across her bosom,
and the instrument was encircled with a wreath of flowers. Each individual carried some little
offering, such as bottles of wine and liqueurs, conserves and sweetmeats, flowers and fruit,
&c. &c.; and these were placed on the table, the whole group forming a circle round Rosalie,
who advanced to her mother, and sang to the guitar the well-known verses consecrated to such
occasions.

    Madame c'est aujourdhui votre fete,
    C'est aussi celle de nos coeurs;
    A vous chanter chacun s'apprete!
    Et veut vous courouner de fleurs!

The lovely girl then loosed the garland from her lyre, placed it with light hand on the brow
of her mother, and sank in a graceful bending attitude to receive her parent's blessing. She
was instantly raised, fondly embraced by both her admiring parents, and with a repetition of
the song, the whole party left the room. The scene is long past, but I have often recalled
it since; and in many an hour of fancy and of thought, have again beheld that fair girl kneeling
to her mother, again beheld her clasped to that mother's heart. Nor was the above the only
instance of her skill, every day presented some fresh instance of her feeling and of taste.

A plaisanterie, which proved very successful, was arranged as follows:--We were sitting one
evening up stairs, when we were attracted by the performance of three musicians, who were singing
in the cour. The party consisted of two young men, and a female, who wore a veil; they accompanied
their songs by playing on the guitar; their performance was evidently of a superior character;
the music and the words were Italian, and the voice of the female performer was eminently sweet
and touching. After listening some time with great delight--

"Go," said I to one of the party, "find Rosalie, and tell her to come and listen to a better
singer than herself, who will give her a lecon de chant."

This was said in the hearing of the foreign songstress, for whom it was intended as a compliment,
while, at the same time, some silver was thrown upon the ground. But what was our surprise,
when the lovely girl threw aside her veil, exclaiming--

"He! bien messieurs et dames! vous ne connaissez donc plus votre pauvre Rosalie!"

Such was one of many pleasantries by which we were diverted and amused. Idle fancies these
indeed, and such as sterner judgments may deem trifling or absurd, yet not uninteresting, since
many of them evidently afford vestiges of classic times and manners, transmitted through the
course of ages; nor unuseful, since they tend to smooth and adorn the rugged way of life, and
to strew its flinty path with flowers.

With the charms and accomplishments which I have described, (and the sketch can convey but
a faint idea of those which she actually possessed,) it cannot be supposed that Rosalie was
destitute of admirers. She had, indeed, had several, but their suits were all unsuccessful.
She had been addressed in turn by the medecin of the place--by the son of the President of
the Tribunal du Commerce--and by a nephew to a Monsieur de V----, the seigneur who resided
at a neighbouring chateau. But they were all, more or less, improper characters; the medecin
was a gamester; the president's son a drunkard, a character utterly despised in these parts;
while the nephew to the seigneur, was actually a mauvais sujet! What the French precisely understand
by a mauvais sujet, I never could exactly make out; for, when impelled by curiosity to inquire,
my queries were always met by such a volley of vituperation, as left one altogether in the
dark with regard to the real nature of the charge. On the whole, I presume, we are to consider
a mauvais sujet as a culprit, compared with whose transgressions, the several enormities of
gaming, drinking, and the like, sink into mere peccadilloes.

The parents of Rosalie (the parents settle all these matters in France), on learning the character
of their intended sons-in-law, dismissed them one after the other; and Rosalie acquiesced in
their determination with a readiness and a decision, which did equal honour to her affection
and her judgment.

So interesting a girl, however, was not likely to remain long without a suitable admirer, and
she speedily had another affaire du coeur. A young and handsome militaire, a sous-lieutenant
in the royal guard, aspired to gain her hand, and to replace the vacancy in her affections.

Henri Vaucouleurs was a fine, tall, dark, martial-looking young man (the French make fine-looking
soldiers), and, with his luxuriant mustachios and the eager glance of his keen black eye, seemed
the very beau ideal of a modern hero. Born at Mezieres, in the department of Ardennes, he was
cradled in the very lap of war, and was yet a mere boy; when, in the summer of 1813, he joined
the corps called the garde d'honneur. He made the campaign of Germany, and was present in the
battles of Leipzig and of Hanau, in the last of which he received a ball in the right arm.
He shortly, however, resumed his post with the army assembled for the defence of France, and
at the battle of Laon received a severe coup de sabre on his forehead, the scar of which added
much to the martial aspect of his countenance. At the peace he joined the royal guard, in which
corps he still continued. He was really a very estimable and engaging young man; and possessed
more candour, intelligence, and good sense, than I think I ever witnessed in a military man
among the French. His account of his campaigns was exceedingly modest, unaffected, and intelligent,
and his whole conversation and manner were of a superior character. I remember, he spoke with
great forbearance of the three principal nations among the allies, the Russians, Prussians,
and Austrians; but inveighed, bitterly, against several of the auxiliaries, who, he said, having
received only benefits of the French emperor, embraced the first opportunity offered by a reverse
of fortune, to desert and betray him. Of Napoleon, he spoke with enthusiasm as a soldier; but
with detestation, as an intoxicated and deluded tyrant, a rash and desperate gamester, who
sent forth his attached and devoted soldiers, to be devoured by the destroying elements, without
provision, or scarcely a thought for their natural and indispensable wants.

Such were the character and pretensions of him who was destined to gain the affections of Rosalie.
At first, he seemed to have but little chance of success. Old people commonly entertain a prejudice
against the character and profession of military men, and are seldom ambitious of such an alliance
for a daughter. The parents of Rosalie were prepossessed against Henri on account of his calling;
and, though Rosalie herself early entertained an interest in his favour, yet she was too good
and too sage to cherish in herself, or to encourage in her lover, an attachment which her parents
might disapprove. Henri was, however, admitted as a visiter at the house, and by degrees his
amiable manners and correct deportment won, first on the old lady, and then on the father,
till their scruples vanished, and, indeed, they wondered they could ever have entertained any
against so estimable a young man and an officer. He was thus speedily received as the lover
of Rosalie, and about the time of my visit was installed in all the privileges of a bon ami.
He was equally accomplished with herself; spoke German fluently, Italian passably well, and
was an excellent performer on the flute and the guitar; so that he was a fit companion for
his charming intended, and was able to assist in those refined and elegant recreations, in
which she also excelled.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

DOZING.

"Dozing very much delights."

Our corporeal machinery requires an occasional relaxation, as much as the steam engine does
the application of oil to its divers springs; and, after a bona fide slumber, we rise with
a freshness equal to that of flowers in the best regulated flower-pots. But dozing must not
be confounded with legitimate sleep, though frequently tending to the same purpose; it may
be termed an embryo slumber, that entertaineth the body with the most quiescent gentleness,
acting on our senses as a sort of mental warm bath; till, finally, the "material man" himself
luxuriates in tepidity.

Nothing can be more ungodly than to enter the church with an express purpose of dozing there.
Arm-chairs, sofas, and beds are the legitimate places for dozers. But there is no accounting
for that conquering spirit of all-besetting drowsiness that attacks us at sundry times and
places. It is in vain that we lengthen our limbs into an awakening stretch--that we yawn with
the expressive suavity of yawning no more--that we dislocate our knuckle bones, and ruffle
the symmetry of our visage, with a manual application; like the cleft blaze of a candle, drowsiness
returns again. Well, then, what manner of reader is he that hath never sinned by drowsing in
church time? Let him read on; and I'll realize by description what he has realized by endurance.

It is after the embodying of a good dinner with ourselves, that doziness is most tempting.
You have dined at four o'clock to-day. Well, that's a decent Sabbatical hour. After due potations
of wine, coffee, &c. your gratitude is awakened; and, like a good Christian, you arrange your
beaver, and walk off steadily to church. Now, remember, I give you full credit for your wish
to exhibit your external holiness--that you are indeed conscious of the reverence that should
accompany all your engagements in the fane of the Deity; and yet I prognosticate that if the
Rev. Nabob Narcotic happen to preach this evening, you will, of a surety, doze--infallibly
doze--in the midst of his sermon!

'Tis a summer month, and the very church windows seem labouring with a fit perspiration. Horribly
boring--isn't it? How your hat clings to your moistened forehead, and the warm gloves droop
from your fingers, like roasting chicken! Get as much room as possible; tenderly pass little
miss there, and her unbreeched brother, over to their smiling mamma. Now you have the balmy
corner to yourself! "Psalms," first lesson--second ditto--prayers--thanksgivings--all reverently
attended to; there is a little dreaminess settling on your lids--your lips begin to close with
languor; but you have not dozed. Let's hear the sermon. You are seated with tolerable erectness;
and, judging from the steady determination of your eyebrows, one would imagine that your eyes
would be open for the whole of the discourse. But, alas! 'tis Mr. Narcotic, whose spectacled
nose is just verging above the crimson horizon of his pulpit.--"Awake, thou that sleepest!"
Why, the text is quite opposed to DOZINESS! But what of this, if the preacher be addicted to
drawling, the weather unobligingly sultry, and you yourself have gradually been dwindling from
an uncongenial state of wakefulness into a sleepy calm? 'Tis too much for beldame Nature, believe
me!

I perceive that you have rubbed the bridge of your nose several times--that you have tried
to swell forth your eyes with a full round stare at the parson; but your stoicism "profiteth
nothing." The sermon is irreligiously long; and you are nodding--in a doze! Whether there be
much pleasure in a church doze, I am not presuming enough to determine. For myself, I have
found nothing more tantalizing than the endeavour to restrain from an occasioned doze during
church time. After a certain period, I have perceived the parson diminishing, like a phantasmagoric
image--all the ladies' black bonnets sinking away, like a cluster of clouds--and (shame on
the confession!) I have performed head worship to the front of my seat, instead of keeping
an immovable post-like position, before his reverence. However, a church doze is seldom admired
by the wakeful. Should an embryo snore escape from one's nose (and this is possible,) some
old grandam, or an upright piece of masculine sanctity, is sure to rouse you; the former will
either hem you into awakening shame, or drop her prayer-book on the floor; the latter will
most likely thump the same with the imperative tip of his boot. How horridly stupid one seems
after being aroused! The woman eyes you with the most piquant, self-justifying sneer possible;
while all her little IMMACULATES, if she have any, look at you like so many hissing young turkey
cocks; and as for the man--bless his holiness!--he'd frown you down to Hades at once.

"My heart leaps up" when I behold a stage coach--that snug, panel painted, comfortable wheel-whirling
"thing of life." O ye days of juvenilian sensibilities--ye eye-feeding, heart-rising scenes
of remembered felicity!--how glorious was the coach at the school door! The whip--Ajax Mastigoferos
never had such a powerful one as the modern Jehu! The spokes of the wheels--they were handled
with admiring fingers! That Jupiter-like throne, the coach-box--who would not have risked his
neck to have been seated on it? When all was "right," how eloquent the lip-music of coachee!
how fine the introductory frisks of the horses' tails, and the arching plunge of the fore-foot--no
rainbow-curve ever was so beauteous! "Oh, happy days! who would not be a boy again?" But away
with my puerilities. I intend the reader to take a doze in that comfortable repository for
the person--the inside of a coach.

With all the reckless simplicity of boyhood, I maintain that travelling by coach is by no means
the least of our sublunary pleasures. Man is a wheelable animal as well as walking one. Winter
is the time for a nice inside jaunt. What divine evaporations from the coachman's muzzle! What
a joyous creak in the down-flying steps!--and, oh! that comfortable alertness with which we
deposit ourselves in the padded corner, and fold our coatflaps over our knees, glance at the
frosty steam of the window; and then, quite a la Tityre, repose our recumbent bodies at our
ease! Such moments as these are snatches of indefinable bliss. It would appear probable, that
a coach was a very inconvenient place for a doze; the attendant bustle, the whip-smacks, bickering
wheels, and untranquillizing jolts--

    "Like angels' visits, few and far between,"--

are not calculated for sleepiness. Notwithstanding these correlative interruptions, a doze
in the coach is by no means uncommon, even in the daytime. Let us examine this a little more
intellectually.

Suppose a man is returning to his friends, with a mind composed, and "all his business settled."
(By-the-by, how vastly comprehensive this speech is!) Suppose he has entered the coach about
four in the afternoon, and, by rare luck, finds he is, for the present, the only inside passenger.
Such a man, I say, will be likely to doze before twenty miles have run under the coach-wheels--speaking
Hibernice. For the last half-hour, he will be thinking of himself--how many commissions he
has performed--how many he has left undone--and how many he intends to do. The next, he will
probably give to his home attractions--his anxious wife, sat musingly round the tea-table--his
favourite son George (so like his father)--and all the nine hundred and ninety-nine pretty
nothings we hear of, after a brief absence. These will send his heart a long way from the coach,
and therefore keep him in the full enjoyment of wakefulness. But this train of delectable musing
is by no means exhaustless. The roll of the wheels gradually becomes naturalized to the ear,
and the body moves in sympathy with the coach; the road gets very monotonously barren; the
lounge in the corner--how suitable then to this solitary languor! Lulled here, the traveller
for awhile admires the leathern trappings of the coach, hums a tune perhaps, and affects a
dubious whistle. Meantime the operations of doziness have been gently applying themselves.
His eye is sated with the road and the coach; his hands become stationary on his lap; his feet
supinely rested on the opposite seat; his head instinctively motions to the corner--and he
dozes! A doze in the coach is the flower of dozes, when you are alone. There, you may twist
your person into any shape you please, without the fear of discomposing a silken dress, or
a nursemaid's petticoats. No boisterous arguments from snuff-taking sexagenarians: all is placid
--Eden-like--just as a dozer's sanctorum ought to be! The only thing attendant on the doze
of an inside passenger, is the great chance of being suddenly aroused by the entrance of company.
O tell me, ye of the fine nerve, what is more vexing than to be startled from your nest by
the creaking slam of the steps, the bleak winter gales galloping along your face, and a whole
bundle of human beings pushing themselves into your retreat!

Not all the morose sarcasms of Johnson, on the pleasures of rural life, have ever weakened
my capability for enjoying it at convenient intervals. His antipathy to the country resembled
his contempt for blank-verse--he could not enjoy it. I have now moped away a considerable number
of months in this city of all things--this--this London. "Well?" Pray restrain yourself, reader;
I am coming to the point in due season. During my metropolitan existence--although I am neither
a tailor, nor any trade, nor anything exactly--I have never beheld a downright intellectual-looking
blade of grass. I mean much by an intellectual blade of grass. The Londoners--poor conceited
creatures!--have denominated sundry portions of their Babylon "fields." But--I ask it in all
the honest pride of sheer ignorance--is there the ghost even of a bit of grass to be seen in
many of them? I cannot easily forget my vexation, when, after a tedious walk to one of those
misnomered "fields," I found nothing but a weather-beaten, muggy, smoky assemblage of houses
of all sizes, circumscribed by appropriate filth and abundant cabbage-stumps. Innocent of London
quackeries, I strolled forth with the full hope of laying me down on a velvet carpet of grass--the
birds carolling around me--and, perchance, a flock of lambkins, tunefully baying to their mammas!!
"Said I to myself," when I reached these fields, "what a fool I am!" I had contemplated a doze
on the grass.

But leaving all thoughts of disappointment, who will not allow that there is something exceedingly
delightful in dozing calmly beneath the shade of an o'er-arching tree?

    ----"recubans sub tegmine fagi."

