There is no more convincing proof of the truth of a comprehensive theory, than its power of
absorbing and finding a place for new facts, and its capability of interpreting phænomena which
had been previously looked upon as unaccountable anomalies. It is thus that the law of universal
gravitation and the undulatory theory of light have become established and universally accepted
by men of science. Fact after fact has been brought forward as being apparently inconsistent
with them, and one after another these very facts have been shown to be the consequences of
the laws they were at first supposed to disprove. A false theory will never stand this test.
Advancing knowledge brings to light whole groups of facts which it cannot deal with, and its
advocates steadily decrease in numbers, notwithstanding the ability and scientific skill with
which it may have been supported. The great name of Edward Forbes did not prevent his theory
of "Polarity in the distribution of Organic beings in Time" from dying a natural death; but
the most striking illustration of the behaviour of a false theory is to be found in the "Circular
and Quinarian System" of classification propounded by MacLeay, and developed by Swainson, with
an amount of knowledge and ingenuity that have rarely been surpassed. This theory was eminently
attractive, both from its symmetry and completeness, and from the interesting nature of the
varied analogies and affinities which it brought to light and made use of. The series of Natural
History volumes in "Lardner's Cabinet Cyclopædia," in which Mr. Swainson developed it in most
departments of the animal kingdom, made it widely known; and in fact for a long time these
were the best and almost the only popular text-books for the rising generation of naturalists.
It was favourably received too by the older school, which was perhaps rather an indication
of its unsoundness. A considerable number of well-known naturalists either spoke approvingly
of it, or advocated similar principles, and for a good many years it was decidedly in the ascendent.
With such a favourable introduction, and with such talented exponents, it must have become
established if it had had any germ of truth in it; yet it quite died out in a few short years,
its very existence is now a matter of history; and so rapid was its fall that its talented
creator, Swainson, perhaps lived to be the last man who believed in it.

Such is the course of a false theory. That of a true one is very different, as may be well
seen by the progress of opinion on the subject of Natural Selection. In less than eight years
"The Origin of Species" has produced conviction in the minds of a majority of the most eminent
living men of science. New facts, new problems, new difficulties as they arise are accepted,
solved or removed by this theory; and its principles are illustrated by the progress and conclusions
of every well established branch of human knowledge. It is the object of the present essay
to show how it has recently been applied to connect together and explain a variety of curious
facts which had long been considered as inexplicable anomalies.

Importance of the Principle of Utility.

Perhaps no principle has ever been announced so fertile in results as that which Mr. Darwin
so earnestly impresses upon us, and which is indeed a necessary deduction from the theory of
Natural Selection, namely--that none of the definite facts of organic nature, no special organ,
no characteristic form or marking, no peculiarities of instinct or of habit, no relations between
species or between groups of species--can exist, but which must now be or once have been useful
to the individuals or the races which possess them. This great principle gives us a clue which
we can follow out in the study of many recondite phænomena, and leads us to seek a meaning
and a purpose of some definite character in minutiæ which we should be otherwise almost sure
to pass over as insignificant or unimportant.

Popular Theories of Colour in Animals.

The adaptation of the external colouring of animals to their conditions of life has long been
recognised, and has been imputed either to an originally created specific peculiarity, or to
the direct action of climate, soil, or food. Where the former explanation has been accepted,
it has completely checked inquiry, since we could never get any further than the fact of the
adaptation. There was nothing more to be known about the matter. The second explanation was
soon found to be quite inadequate to deal with all the varied phases of the phænomena, and
to be contradicted by many well-known facts. For example, wild rabbits are always of grey or
brown tints well suited for concealment among grass and fern. But when these rabbits are domesticated,
without any change of climate or food, they vary into white or black, and these varieties may
be multiplied to any extent, forming white or black races. Exactly the same thing has occurred
with pigeons; and in the case of rats and mice, the white variety has not been shown to be
at all dependent on alteration of climate, food, or other external conditions. In many cases
the wings of an insect not only assume the exact tint of the bark or leaf it is accustomed
to rest on, but the form and veining of the leaf or the exact rugosity of the bark is imitated;
and these detailed modifications cannot be reasonably imputed to climate or to food, since
in many cases the species does not feed on the substance it resembles, and when it does, no
reasonable connexion can be shown to exist between the supposed cause and the effect produced.
It was reserved for the theory of Natural Selection to solve all these problems, and many others
which were not at first supposed to be directly connected with them. To make these latter intelligible,
it will be necessary to give a sketch of the whole series of phænomena which may be classed
under the head of useful or protective resemblances.

Importance of Concealment as Influencing Colour.

Concealment, more or less complete, is useful to many animals, and absolutely essential to
some. Those which have numerous enemies from which they cannot escape by rapidity of motion,
find safety in concealment. Those which prey upon others must also be so constituted as not
to alarm them by their presence or their approach, or they would soon die of hunger. Now it
is remarkable in how many cases nature gives this boon to the animal, by colouring it with
such tints as may best serve to enable it to escape from its enemies or to entrap its prey.
Desert animals as a rule are desert-coloured. The lion is a typical example of this, and must
be almost invisible when crouched upon the sand or among desert rocks and stones. Antelopes
are all more or less sandy-coloured. The camel is pre-eminently so. The Egyptian cat and the
Pampas cat are sandy or earth-coloured. The Australian kangaroos are of the same tints, and
the original colour of the wild horse is supposed to have been a sandy or clay-colour.

The desert birds are still more remarkably protected by their assimilative hues. The stonechats,
the larks, the quails, the goatsuckers and the grouse, which abound in the North African and
Asiatic deserts, are all tinted and mottled so as to resemble with wonderful accuracy the average
colour and aspect of the soil in the district they inhabit. The Rev. H. Tristram, in his account
of the ornithology of North Africa in the 1st volume of the "Ibis," says: "In the desert, where
neither trees, brush-wood, nor even undulation of the surface afford the slightest protection
to its foes, a modification of colour which shall be assimilated to that of the surrounding
country, is absolutely necessary. Hence without exception the upper plumage of every bird,
whether lark, chat, sylvain, or sand-grouse, and also the fur of all the smaller mammals, and
the skin of all the snakes and lizards, is of one uniform isabelline or sand colour." After
the testimony of so able an observer it is unnecessary to adduce further examples of the protective
colours of desert animals.

Almost equally striking are the cases of arctic animals possessing the white colour that best
conceals them upon snowfields and icebergs. The polar bear is the only bear that is white,
and it lives constantly among snow and ice. The arctic fox, the ermine and the alpine hare
change to white in winter only, because in summer white would be more conspicuous than any
other colour, and therefore a danger rather than a protection; but the American polar hare,
inhabiting regions of almost perpetual snow, is white all the year round. Other animals inhabiting
the same Northern regions do not, however, change colour. The sable is a good example, for
throughout the severity of a Siberian winter it retains its rich brown fur. But its habits
are such that it does not need the protection of colour, for it is said to be able to subsist
on fruits and berries in winter, and to be so active upon the trees as to catch small birds
among the branches. So also the woodchuck of Canada has a dark-brown fur; but then it lives
in burrows and frequents river banks, catching fish and small animals that live in or near
the water.

Among birds, the ptarmigan is a fine example of protective colouring. Its summer plumage so
exactly harmonizes with the lichen-coloured stones among which it delights to sit, that a person
may walk through a flock of them without seeing a single bird; while in winter its white plumage
is an almost equal protection. The snow-bunting, the jer-falcon, and the snowy owl are also
white-coloured birds inhabiting the arctic regions, and there can be little doubt but that
their colouring is to some extent protective.

Nocturnal animals supply us with equally good illustrations. Mice, rats, bats, and moles possess
the least conspicuous of hues, and must be quite invisible at times when any light colour would
be instantly seen. Owls and goatsuckers are of those dark mottled tints that will assimilate
with bark and lichen, and thus protect them during the day, and at the same time be inconspicuous
in the dusk. The parrots are the most striking example, but we have also a group of green pigeons
in the East; and the barbets, leaf-thrushes, bee-eaters, white-eyes, turacos, and several smaller
groups, have so much green in their plumage as to tend greatly to conceal them among the foliage.

Special Modifications of Colour.

The conformity of tint which has been so far shown to exist between animals and their habitations
is of a somewhat general character; we will now consider the cases of more special adaptation.
If the lion is enabled by his sandy colour readily to conceal himself by merely crouching down
upon the desert, how, it may be asked, do the elegant markings of the tiger, the jaguar, and
the other large cats agree with this theory? We reply that these are generally cases of more
or less special adaptation. How remarkable it is that besides the lion and tiger, almost all
the other large cats are arboreal in their habits, and almost all have ocellated or spotted
skins, which must certainly tend to blend them with the background of foliage; while the one
exception, the puma, has an ashy brown uniform fur, and has the habit of clinging so closely
to a limb of a tree while waiting for his prey to pass beneath as to be hardly distinguishable
from the bark.

Among birds, the ptarmigan, already mentioned, must be considered a remarkable case of special
adaptation. Another is a South-American goatsucker (Caprimulgus rupestris) which rests in the
bright sunshine on little bare rocky islets in the Upper Rio Negro, where its unusually light
colours so closely resemble those of the rock and sand, that it can scarcely be detected till
trodden upon.

The Duke of Argyll, in his "Reign of Law," has pointed out the admirable adaptation of the
colours of the woodcock to its protection. The various browns and yellows and pale ash-colour
that occur in fallen leaves are all reproduced in its plumage, so that when according to its
habit it rests upon the ground under trees, it is almost impossible to detect it. In snipes
the colours are modified so as to be equally in harmony with the prevalent forms and colours
of marshy vegetation. Mr. J. M. Lester, in a paper read before the Rugby School Natural History
Society, observes:--"The wood-dove, when perched amongst the branches of its favourite fir,
is scarcely discernible; whereas, were it among some lighter foliage, the blue and purple tints
in its plumage would far sooner betray it. The robin redbreast too, although it might be thought
that the red on its breast made it much easier to be seen, is in reality not at all endangered
by it, since it generally contrives to get among some russet or yellow fading leaves, where
the red matches very well with the autumn tints, and the brown of the rest of the body with
the bare branches."

Reptiles offer us many similar examples. The most arboreal lizards, the iguanas, are as green
as the leaves they feed upon, and the slender whip-snakes are rendered almost invisible as
they glide among the foliage by a similar colouration. How difficult it is sometimes to catch
sight of the little green tree-frogs sitting on the leaves of a small plant enclosed in a glass
case in the Zoological Gardens; yet how much better concealed must they be among the fresh
green damp foliage of a marshy forest. There is a North-American frog found on lichen-covered
rocks and walls, which is so coloured as exactly to resemble them, and as long as it remains
quiet would certainly escape detection. Some of the geckos which cling motionless on the trunks
of trees in the tropics, are of such curiously marbled colours as to match exactly with the
bark they rest upon.

In every part of the tropics there are tree-snakes that twist among boughs and shrubs, or lie
coiled up on the dense masses of foliage. These are of many distinct groups, and comprise both
venomous and harmless genera; but almost all of them are of a beautiful green colour, sometimes
more or less adorned with white or dusky bands and spots. There can be little doubt that this
colour is doubly useful to them, since it will tend to conceal them from their enemies, and
will lead their prey to approach them unconscious of danger. Dr. Gunther informs me that there
is only one genus of true arboreal snakes (Dipsas) whose colours are rarely green, but are
of various shades of black, brown, and olive, and these are all nocturnal reptiles, and there
can be little doubt conceal themselves during the day in holes, so that the green protective
tint would be useless to them, and they accordingly retain the more usual reptilian hues.

