JOHN SINGLETON COPLEY (1737-1815) was born in Boston, Mass., U. S., to which place his parents
are said to have immigrated from Limerick, Ireland. The father was descended from the Copleys
of Yorkshire, England, and the mother from the Singletons of County Clare, both families of
note. When young Copley was eleven years old his mother was married to Peter Pelham, a widower
with three sons--Peter, Charles, and William--and who subsequently became the father of another
son, Henry, by this second marriage. Mr. Pelham was a portrait painter and a mezzotint engraver
of unusual merit. One authority calls him "the founder of those arts in New England." Mr. Pelham
was also a man of education, a land surveyor, and a mathematician. He was thus well qualified
to educate, assist, and stimulate young Copley in the pursuit of studies so natural and congenial
to him. He is said to have been studious and quiet, and to have made rapid advances. When he
was fifteen years old he painted a portrait of his step-brother, Charles Pelham, now in the
family of a great-grandson, Mr. Charles Pelham Curtis, of Boston. At sixteen he published an
engraving of Rev. William Welsteed, from a portrait painted by himself. The same year he painted
the portrait of a child--afterward Dr. de Mountfort--now owned in Detroit. In 1754 he painted
an allegorical picture of Mars, Venus, and Vulcan, thirty inches long by twenty-five wide,
now owned in Bridgewater, Mass. The next year he painted a miniature of George Washington,
who was on a visit to Governor Shirley at the time. This picture now belongs to the family
of the late George P. Putnam, of New York City. In 1756 he painted a three-quarters length
portrait of General William Brattle, life size, signed and dated, and now owned by Mr. William
S. Appleton. He now improved rapidly. A crayon portrait of Miss Rebecca Gardiner, afterward
Mrs. Philip Dumaresq, an oil painting of Mrs. Edmund Perkins, a portrait of Rebecca Boylston,
afterward wife of Governor Gill, portraits of Colonel and Mrs. Lee, grandparents of General
William Raymond Lee, all exist and attest the continued growth of his powers. These date between
1763 and 1769. During this time he had access to and was a visitor in houses where were portraits
by Saribest, Blackburn, Liopoldt, and even by Vandyck and Sir Godfrey Kneller. Mr. Augustus
Thorndike Perkins, in his carefully written monograph on Copley, says that our artist must
have seen all these pictures, since, as Dr. Gardiner says, "his genial disposition and his
courtly manners make him a welcome guest everywhere." Mr. Perkins remarks that Copley must
have studied with Blackburn; that he imitated, but in some respects surpassed him. "Both frequently
used, either as the lining of a dress or as drapery, a certain shade of mauve pink; Blackburn
uses this shade feebly, while Copley dashes it on with the hand of a master." On November 16,
1769, Copley married Susan (or Susannah, as it is sometimes written), the daughter of Mr. Richard
Clarke, a distinguished merchant of Boston, to whom, as agent of the East India Company of
London, was consigned the tea thrown overboard in Boston harbor. From all accounts he soon
began to live in good style; and as, in 1771, Colonel Trumbull found him living opposite the
Common, it is probable that he purchased at about that time the property which afterward became
so valuable, although long after Copley had ceased to be the owner. In 1773, says the late
eminent conveyancer, Nathaniel Ingersoll Bowditch, "Copley owned all the land bounded on the
west by Charles River, thence by Beacon Street to Walnut Street, thence by Walnut Street to
Mt. Vernon Street, thence by Mt. Vernon Street to Louisburg Square, thence by Louisburg Square
to Pinckney Street, thence by Pinckney Street to the water, containing about eleven acres of
land." This land is now covered with handsome residences, and is of great value. An agent of
Copley's sold his property after he went abroad without being authorized to do so, and, although
his son came over in 1795 to look into the matter, he was only able to secure a compromise
by which a further sum of three thousand guineas was paid in final settlement.

Soon after his marriage Copley painted his picture of a "Boy with a Squirrel," which he sent
anonymously to Benjamin West, in London, for exhibition. West judged from the wood on which
the picture was stretched and from the kind of squirrel that the work was American, and so
excellent was the painting that a rule of the institution was set aside, and the picture exhibited.
This picture is now in the possession of Mrs. James S. Amory, of Boston, a granddaughter of
the artist. The boy in the picture was his half-brother Henry. The picture was so favorably
received that Copley was advised to go to England. He sailed in 1774, and never returned.

Mr. Copley, soon after his arrival in London, passed over to the Continent, and through Italy,
studying in Parma and in Rome. He visited Naples and Pæstum also. It is said that he studied
so diligently that he was with difficulty persuaded to paint two portraits in Rome. In 1775
he travelled and studied in Germany, in Holland, and in France. This same year his wife and
family joined him in England. These consisted of his wife, his son, John Singleton, who afterward
became the famous Lord Chancellor Lyndhurst; his daughter Elizabeth, afterward married to a
distinguished merchant in Boston, and who survived to a great age; Mary Copley, who lived unmarried
to the great age of ninety-four; and another son who died young. In 1777 he was made an Associate
of the Royal Academy, and six years later an Academician. He was now in the full tide of success.
He was offered five hundred guineas to paint a family group of six persons. The well-known
group of Copley's family, called the "Family Picture," the "Death of Lord Chatham," and "Watson
and the Shark," were on his easel in 1780. The picture of Lord Chatham falling senseless in
the House of Lords was commenced soon after his death in 1778. It was engraved by Bartolozzi,
and twenty-five hundred copies were sold in a few weeks. Copley exhibited the picture, to his
own profit as well as fame.

In 1781 occurred the death of Major Pierson, shot in the moment of victory over the French
troops who had invaded the island of Jersey. His death was instantly avenged by his black servant,
and of this scene Copley made one of his finest pictures. He took pains, with his usual honesty,
to go to St. Helier's, and make a drawing of the locality. The picture is thoroughly realistic,
although painful. His large picture of the "Repulse and Defeat of the Spanish Floating Batteries
at Gibraltar" was painted on commission from the city of London. It is twenty-five feet long
by twenty-two and a half feet high; but there are so many figures and so much distance to be
shown in the painting that the artist really needed more room. Of the commander, Lord Heathfield,
Sir Robert Royd, Sir William Green, and some twelve or fifteen others, the artist made careful
portraits.

The story told by Elkanah Watson shows Copley's strong sympathy for America. In 1782 Watson
was in London, and Copley made a full-length portrait of him, and in his journal Watson says:
"The painting was finished in most exquisite style in every part, except the background, which
Copley and I designed to represent a ship bearing to America the acknowledgments of our independence.
The sun was just rising upon the stripes of the Union streaming from her gaff. All was complete
save the flag, which Copley did not deem proper to hoist under the present circumstances, as
his gallery was the constant resort of the royal family and the nobility. I dined with the
artist on the glorious 5th of December, 1782. After listening with him to the speech of the
king formally recognizing the United States of America as in the rank of nations, previous
to dinner, and immediately after our return from the House of Lords, he invited me into his
studio, and there, with a bold hand, a master's touch, and, I believe, an American heart, he
attached to the ship the stars and stripes. This was, I imagine, the first American flag hoisted
in Old England."

Copley purchased, for a London residence, the mansion-house in George Street belonging to Lord
Fauconburg. It afterward became more widely known as the residence of his son, Lord Lyndhurst.
Lord Mansfield's residence was near by, and among the many commissions from public men was
one to paint his lordship's portrait. Perhaps one of the most interesting of all his commissions
was one to paint the picture of Charles I. demanding the five obnoxious members from the Long
Parliament, for which a number of gentlemen in Boston paid one thousand five hundred pounds.
It is said that every face in this great picture was taken from a portrait at that time extant;
and Mrs. Gardiner Greene narrates that she and her father were driven in a post-chaise over
a considerable part of England, visiting every house in which there was a picture of a member
of the famous Parliament, and were always received as honored guests. Copley's painting of
the death of Lord Chatham was much admired. So numerous were the subscriptions for the engraving
that it is said Copley must have received nearly, or quite, eleven thousand pounds for the
picture and the engraved copies. It was quite natural for Copley to be popular with New Englanders;
indeed, almost every Bostonian, at one time, on visiting London, made a point to bring home
his portrait by Copley, if possible. There are known to exist in this country two hundred and
sixty-nine oil-paintings, thirty-five crayons, and fourteen miniatures by him. These pictures
are carefully cherished, as are indeed all memorials of this generous and kindly gentleman.
Although his life was mostly passed in England, where he obtained wealth and renown, yet in
a strong sense he could be claimed for Boston, as it was there he was born; it was there he
received his artistic bias and education; it was there he was married, and had three children
born to him; and, finally, it was there that he acquired a fair amount of fame and property
solely by his brush. It will be worth while for the readers of this volume to take pains to
see some of the more noteworthy Copleys.

A portrait of John Adams, full length, painted in London in 1783, is now in possession of Harvard
College. A portrait of Samuel Adams, three-quarters length, spirited and beautiful, standing
by a table, and holding a paper, hangs in Faneuil Hall. Another picture of Samuel Adams is
in Harvard College, which also owns several other Copleys. A portrait of James Allen, a man
of fortune, a patriot, and a scholar, is now owned by the Massachusetts Historical Society.
The "Copley Family," one of the artist's very best pictures, is now owned in Boston by Mr.
Amory, and, in fact, Mrs. James S. Amory owns a number of his best works.

Copley was a man of elegance and dignity, fond of the beautiful, particular in his dress, hospitable,
and a lover of poetry and the arts. His favorite book was said to be "Paradise Lost." His last
picture was on the subject of the Resurrection.

BENJAMIN WEST (1738-1820) was born at Springfield, Pennsylvania, of Quaker parentage. In the
various narratives of his successful life many stories are told which appear somewhat fabulous,
and most of which have nothing to do with his subsequent career. He is said to have made a
pen-and-ink portrait of his little niece at the age of seven years; to have shaved the cat's
tail for paint brushes; to have received instruction in painting and archery from the Indians;
to have so far conquered the prejudices of his relatives and their co-religionists to his adoption
of an artist's life that he was solemnly consecrated to it by the laying on of hands by the
men, and the simultaneous kissing of the women. His love for art must have been very strong,
and he was finally indulged, and assisted in it by his relatives, so that at the age of eighteen
he was established as a portrait-painter in Philadelphia. By the kindness of friends in that
city and in New York he was enabled to go to Italy, where he remained three years, making friends
and reputation everywhere. Parma, Florence, and Bologna elected him a member of their Academies.
He was only twenty-five years old when he went to England, on his way back to America. But
he was so well received that he finally determined to remain in England, and a young lady named
Elizabeth Shewell, to whom he had become engaged before going abroad, was kind and judicious
enough to join him in London, where she became his wife, and was his faithful helpmate for
fifty years. In 1766 he exhibited his "Orestes and Pylades," which on account of its novelty
and merit produced a sensation. He painted "Agrippina weeping over the Urn of Germanicus,"
and by the Archbishop of York was introduced to George III. as its author. He immediately gained
favor with the king, and was installed at Windsor as the court-painter with a salary of one
thousand pounds per annum. This salary and position was continued for thirty-three years. He
painted a series of subjects on a grand scale from the life of Edward III. for St. George's
Hall, and twenty-eight scriptural subjects, besides nine portrait pictures of the royal family.
In 1792, on the death of Reynolds, he was elected President of the Royal Academy, a position
which, except a brief interregnum, he held until his death in March, 1820. He was greatly praised
in his day, and doubtless thought himself a great artist. He painted a vast number of portraits
and quite a number of pictures of classical and historical subjects. His "Lear" is in the Boston
Athenæum; his "Hamlet and Ophelia" is in the Longworth collection in Cincinnati; "Christ Healing
the Sick" is in the Pennsylvania Hospital; and the "Rejected Christ" is or was owned by Mr.
Harrison, of Philadelphia. There are two portraits of West, one by Allston and one by Leslie,
in the Boston Athenæum, and a full-length, by Sir Thomas Lawrence, in the Wadsworth Gallery
in Hartford, Conn. One of West's pictures did a great deal for his reputation, although it
was quite a departure from the treatment and ideas then in vogue; this was the "Death of General
Wolfe" on the Plains of Abraham. When it was known to artists and amateurs that his purpose
was to depict the scene as it really might have happened he was greatly ridiculed. Even Sir
Joshua Reynolds expressed an opinion against it; but when he saw the picture he owned that
West was right. Hitherto no one had painted a scene from contemporary history with figures
dressed in the costume of the day. But West depicted each officer and soldier in his uniform,
and gave every man his pig-tail who wore one. The picture is spirited and well grouped. West
was just such a practical, thoughtful, and kindly man as we might expect from his ancestry
and surroundings.

GEORGE ROMNEY (1734-1802), born in Beckside, near Dalton, in Cumberland. He married when he
was twenty-two, and in his twenty-seventh year went to London with only thirty pounds in his
pocket, leaving his wife with seventy pounds and two young children. He returned home to die
in 1799, and in the meantime saw his wife but twice. The year after his arrival in London he
carried off the fifty-guinea prize on the subject of the "Death of Wolfe" from the Society
of Arts. Through the influence of Sir Joshua Reynolds this was reconsidered, and the fifty-guinea
prize was awarded to Mortimer for his "Edward the Confessor," while Romney was put off with
a gratuity of twenty-five guineas. This produced a feud between the two artists. Romney showed
his resentment by exhibiting in a house in Spring Gardens, and never sending a picture to the
Academy, while Reynolds would not so much as mention his name, but spoke of him as "the man
in Cavendish Square." This was after his return from the Continent; but before going to Italy
he was distinctly the rival of Sir Joshua, so much so that there were two factions, and Romney's
studio, in Great Newport Street, was crowded with sitters, among whom was the famous Lord Chancellor
Thurlow, whose full-length portrait is the pride of its possessor. At this time he was making
about twelve hundred pounds a year, a very good income for those days. In 1773 he went to Rome
with a letter to the Pope from the Duke of Richmond. His diary, which he kept for a friend,
shows how conscientious and close was his observation and how great his zeal. He made a copy
of the "Transfiguration," for which he refused one hundred guineas, and which finally sold
for six guineas after his death. On his return to London in 1775 he took the house in Cavendish
Square, where he had great success. He painted a series of portraits of the Gower family, the
largest being a group of children dancing, which Allan Cunningham commended as being "masterly
and graceful." Some of his portraits have a charm beyond his rivals. He painted portraits of
Lady Hamilton, the friend of Lord Nelson--"the maid of all work, model, mistress, ambassadress,
and pauper"--scores of times, and in different attitudes and a variety of characters, as Hebe,
a Bacchante, a Sibyl, as Joan of Arc, as "Sensibility," as a St. Cecilia, as Cassandra, as
Iphigenia, as Constance, as Calypso, as Circe, and as Mary Magdalen, and in some of these characters
many times. He often worked thirteen hours a day, and did his fancy sketches when sitters disappointed
him. He would paint a portrait of a gentleman in four sittings. He was extremely fond of portraying
Shakespeare's characters, and contributed to the Shakespeare Gallery formed by Alderman Boydell.
He went to Paris in 1790, where Lord and Lady Gower introduced him to Louis Philippe, and through
him to all the art treasures of the French capital. On his return to London he formed a plan
of an art museum, to be furnished with casts of the finest statues in Rome, and spent a good
deal of money in the erection of a large building for the purpose. His powers as an artist
gradually waned. He left his Cavendish Square residence in 1797, and in 1799 returned to his
family and home at Kendall. From this time to the close of his life in 1802 he was a mere wreck,
and his artist life was over.

GEORGE MORLAND (1763-1804) was born in London, and the son of an artist. His father was unsuccessful,
and poor George was articled to his father, after the English fashion, and was kept close at
home and at work. It is said that his father stimulated him with rich food and drink to coax
him to work. He was very precocious, and really had unusual talents. His subjects were those
of rustic life, and his pictures contain animals wonderfully well painted, but his pigs surpass
all. His character was pitiful; he was simply, at his best, a mere machine to make pictures.
As for goodness, truth, or nobleness of any sort, there is not a syllable recorded in his favor.
Strange to say, the pictures of his best time are masterpieces in their way, and have been
sold at large prices.

Sir THOMAS LAWRENCE (1769-1830), born at Bristol, England, in the White Hart Inn, of which
his father was landlord. He was wonderfully precocious, and as a child of five years would
recite odes, and declaim passages from Milton and Shakespeare. Even at this early period he
made chalk or pencil portraits, and at nine he finally decided to become a painter from having
seen a picture by Rubens. At this period he made a colored chalk portrait of the beautiful
Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, which still hangs in Chiswick House, in the room in which
Charles Fox died. His father was the son of a clergyman, and was bred a lawyer, but had never
prospered; still his culture and education gave a certain zest and tone to the mind of young
Lawrence, and made him, with his elegant figure and handsome face, the successful courtier
that he afterward became. He worked hard, with considerable success, and with but little instruction
until, at the age of eighteen, he went to London for the first time. At that period he was
described as being extremely handsome in person, with fine, regular features, brilliant eyes,
and long, chestnut-colored hair falling to his shoulders. He lodged close by Sir Joshua Reynolds--then
near the end of his career, and from him received much valuable advice. During Lawrence's first
years in London he attempted pictures illustrating classic art, but without much success. Indeed
he was never successful in large, imaginative pictures, and during most of his career of more
than forty years, confined himself to portraits. The time was propitious for him: Gainsborough
was dead; Reynolds was almost blind, and had given up painting; and Romney had no hold on the
court and the leaders of fashion. Lawrence raised his prices, and had all he could do. He adopted
a more expensive style of dress, and in fact lived so extravagantly that he never arrived at
what may be called easy circumstances--his open-handed generosity contributed to this result.
He early received commissions from the royal family. In 1791 he was elected an Associate, and
in 1794 an Academician. The next year George III. appointed him painter in ordinary to his
Majesty. He was thus fairly launched on a career that promised the highest success. In a certain
sense he had it, but largely in a limited sense. He painted the portraits of people as he saw
them; but he never looked behind the costume and the artificial society manner. He reproduced
the pyramidically shaped coats and collars, the overlapping waistcoats of different colors,
the Hessian boots, and the velvet coats, adorned with furs and frogs, of the fine gentlemen;
and the turbans with birds-of-Paradise feathers, the gowns without waists, the bare arms and
long gloves, the short leg-of-mutton sleeves, and other monstrosities of the ladies. And for
thirty years his sitters were attired in red, or green, or blue, or purple. He absolutely revelled
in the ugliness of fashion. Occasionally Lawrence did some very good things, as when he painted
the Irish orator and patriot, Curran, in one sitting, in which, according to Williams, "he
finished the most extraordinary likeness of the most extraordinary face within the memory of
man." He always painted standing, and often kept his sitters for three hours at a stretch,
and sometimes required as many as nine sittings. On one occasion he is said to have worked
all through one day, through that night, the next day, and through all the night following!
By command of the prince regent he painted the allied sovereigns, their statesmen, princes,
and generals--all the leading personages, in fact, in alliance against Napoleon. His pictures
in the exhibition of 1815 were Mrs. Wolfe, the Prince Regent, Metternich, the Duke of Wellington,
Blucher, the Hetman Platoff, and Mr. Hart Davis. During the Congress that met at Aix-la-Chapelle
in 1818, Lawrence was commissioned by the Prince Regent to paint its principal heads for an
especial gallery. He thus had for sitters nearly all the leading statesmen of Europe. From
Aix-la-Chapelle he went to Vienna, and thence to Rome in 1819, where among others he painted
likenesses of the Pope, of Cardinal Gonsalvi, and of Canova. Of the latter, Canova cried out,
"Per Baccho, che nomo e questo!" It was considered a marvellous likeness; and without violating
good taste he worked into the picture crimson velvet and damask, gold, precious marble, and
fur, with a most brilliant effect. Before reaching home in London he was elected President
of the Royal Academy. At this time he had been elected a member of the Roman Academy of St.
Luke's, of the Academy of Fine Arts in Florence, and of the Fine Arts in New York. He continued
to improve as a painter, and between 1825 and the year of his death, painted and exhibited
some of his finest works. He usually exhibited eight pictures each year, and although without
a rival, gave evidence of anxious care to sustain his reputation. He was especially successful
with children, and many of these pictures--as well as of celebrities--were engraved, and have
thus become known all over the world. Of his eight pictures exhibited in 1829--the last he
ever contributed--Williams says: "It is difficult to imagine a more undeviating excellence,
an infallible accuracy of likeness, with an elevation of art below which it seemed impossible
for him to descend." Lawrence died on the morning of the 7th of January, 1830, with but little
warning, from ossification of the heart; he was buried with much pomp and honor in St. Paul's
Cathedral, by the side of Sir Joshua Reynolds.

JOSEPH M. W. TURNER, R.A. (1775-1851).--It is believed, by those who have investigated the
question most carefully, that this eminent artist and most remarkable man was born in Maiden
Lane, London, April 3, 1775, although the artist himself has stated that he was born in Devonshire,
April 23, 1769. Turner's father, William Turner, was a native of Devonshire, but came to London
while young, and did a fair business in the Covent Garden district as a hair-dresser, wig-maker,
and in shaving people. The father was garrulous, like the traditional hair-dresser, with a
pleasant laugh, and a fresh, smiling face. He had a parrot nose and a projecting chin. Turner's
mother was a Miss Mallord (or Marshall), of good family, but a violent-tempered woman, with
a hawk nose and a fierce visage. Her life ended in a lunatic asylum. The artist, who was always
impatient of inquiry into his domestic matters, resented any allusion to his mother, and never
spoke of her. The manifest peculiarities of his parents had an impression upon Turner, and
would have made him eccentric had there been no other influences of a kindred nature. The parents
were under-sized, and of limited mental range; they were of very little personal assistance
to their gifted son, although the father in later years busied himself in mixing colors, adjusting
pictures to frames, and sometimes he was entrusted with certain rough work at filling in backgrounds.
When Turner was but five years old he is said to have made, from memory, a fair copy of a lion
rampant engraved on a silver salver, which he had seen while accompanying his father to the
house of a customer. Presently the boy began to copy pictures in water-colors, and then to
make sketches from nature of scenes along the river Thames. In his ninth year he drew a picture
of Margate Church. When he was ten years old he was sent to school at Brentford-Butts, where
he remained two years, boarding with his uncle, the local butcher. His leisure hours were spent
in dreamy wanderings and in making countless sketches of birds, trees, flowers, and domestic
fowls. He acquired a smattering of the classics and some knowledge of legends and ancient history.
On his return to London he received instruction from Palice in painting flowers, and, after
a year or two, was sent to Margate, in Kent, to Coleman's school. Here he had more scope and
a wider range, and made pictures of the sea, the chalk cliffs, the undulations of the coast,
and the glorious effects of cloud scenery. On his return from Margate he began to earn money
by coloring engravings and by painting skies in amateurs' drawings and in architects' plans
at half a crown an evening. He always deemed this good practice, as he thus acquired facility
and skill in gradations. His father at one time thought to make an architect of him, and sent
him to Tom Malton to study perspective. But he failed in the exact branch of the profession,
and neither with Malton nor with the architect Hardwick did he give satisfaction. While with
Hardwick he drew careful sketches of old houses and churches, and this practice must have been
of much use to him in after-life. His father finally sent him to the Royal Academy, where he
studied hard, drawing from Greek models and the formal classic architecture. About this time
he was employed, at half a crown an evening, with supper thrown in, to make copies of pictures
by Dr. Munro, of Adelphi Terrace. Munro was one of the physicians employed in the care of George
III. when he had a crazy spell, and owned many valuable pictures by Salvator-Rosa, Rembrandt,
Snyder, Gainsborough, Hearne, Cozens, and others. He had also portfolios full of drawings of
castles and cathedrals, and of Swiss and Italian scenery, and of sketches by Claude and Titian.
Turner was also employed to sketch from nature in all directions about London. In these tasks
he had for a constant companion "Honest Tom Girtin," a young fellow of Turner's own age, who
afterward married a wealthy lady, had rich patrons, and died before he was thirty. Had he lived
to mature years, Girtin would have been a powerful rival to Turner. They were most excellent
friends, and when Girtin died in Rome, Turner was one of his most sincere mourners. Toward
the close of Sir Joshua Reynolds' life, Turner frequented his studio, copied pictures, and
acquired some art secrets. He began to teach water-color drawing in schools, while still a
boy, at from a crown to a guinea a lesson. He made hundreds of sketches in a part of London
now built over compactly with houses in streets and squares, but then picturesque in hills
and dells, in wooded fields and green lanes. With all his baggage tied in a handkerchief on
the end of his walking-stick, he made a sketching tour through the towns of Rochester, Canterbury,
Margate, and others, in Kent, in 1793, and about this time began to paint in oil. His first
contribution to the Royal Academy was a water-color sketch in 1790. Within the next ten years
he exhibited over sixty pictures of castles, cathedrals, and landscapes. All through his life
he made sketches. Wherever he was, if he saw a fine or an unusual effect, he treasured it up
for use. He sketched on any bit of paper, or even on his thumb-nail, if he had nothing better.
Nothing escaped his attention, whether of earth, or sea, or sky. Probably no artist that ever
lived gave nature such careful and profound study. His studies of cloud scenery were almost
a revelation to mankind. In all this Turner drew his instruction as well as his inspiration
from nature. The critics did nothing for him; he rather opened the eyes of even such men as
Ruskin to the wonders of the natural world. But these results all came later, and were the
fruit of and resulted from his constant and incessant studies.

