The young bucks who had not gone on the raid to the Piegans thronged to hear the story, and
the warriors told it here and there, walking in their feathers among a knot of friends, who
listened with gay exclamations of pleasure and envy. Great was Cheschapah, who had done all
this! And one and another told exactly and at length how he had seen the cold water rise into
foam beneath the medicine-man's hand; it could not be told too often; not every companion of
Cheschapah's had been accorded the privilege of witnessing this miracle, and each narrator
in his circle became a wonder himself to the bold boyish faces that surrounded him. And after
the miracle he told how the Piegans had been like a flock of birds before the medicine-man.
Cheschapah himself passed among the groups, alone and aloof; he spoke to none, and he looked
at none, and he noted how their voices fell to whispers as he passed; his ear caught the magic
words of praise and awe; he felt the gaze of admiration follow him away, and a mist rose like
incense in his brain. He wandered among the scattered tepees, and, turning, came along the
same paths again, that he might once more overhear his worshippers. Great was Cheschapah! His
heart beat, a throb of power passed through his body, and "Great is Cheschapah!" said he, aloud;
for the fumes of hallucination wherewith he had drugged others had begun to make him drunk
also. He sought a tepee where the wife of another chief was alone, and at his light call she
stood at the entrance and heard him longer than she had ever listened to him before. But she
withstood the temptation that was strong in the young chief's looks and words. She did not
speak much, but laughed unsteadily, and, shaking her head with averted eyes, left him, and
went where several women were together, and sat among them.

Cheschapah told his victory to the council, with many sentences about himself, and how his
medicine had fended all hurt from the Crows. The elder chiefs sat cold.

"Ump!" said one, at the close of the oration, and "Heh!" remarked another. The sounds were
of assent without surprise.

"It is good," said Pretty Eagle. His voice seemed to enrage Cheschapah.

"Heh! it is always pretty good!" remarked Spotted Horse.

"I have done this too," said Pounded Meat to his son, simply. "Once, twice, three times. The
Crows have always been better warriors than the Piegans."

"Have you made water boil like me?" Cheschapah said.

"I am not a medicine-man," replied his father. "But I have taken horses and squaws from the
Piegans. You make good medicine, maybe; but a cup of water will not kill many white men. Can
you make the river boil? Let Cheschapah make bigger medicine, so the white man shall fear him
as well as the Piegans, whose hearts are well known to us."

Cheschapah scowled. "Pounded Meat shall have this," said he. "I will make medicine to-morrow,
old fool!"

"Drive him from the council!" said Pretty Eagle.

"Let him stay," said Pounded Meat. "His bad talk was not to the council, but to me, and I do
not count it."

But the medicine-man left the presence of the chiefs, and came to the cabin of Kinney.

"Hello!" said the white man. "Sit down."

"You got that?" said the Indian, standing.

"More water medicine? I guess so. Take a seat."

"No, not boil any more. You got that other?"

"That other, eh? Well, now, you're not going to blind them yet? What's your hurry?"

"Yes. Make blind to-morrow. Me great chief!"

A slight uneasiness passed across the bantering face of Kinney. His Seltzer salts performed
what he promised, but he had mentioned another miracle, and he did not want his dupe to find
him out until a war was thoroughly set agoing. He looked at the young Indian, noticing his eyes.

"What's the matter with you, anyway, Cheschapah?"

"Me great chief!" The raised voice trembled with unearthly conviction.

"Well, I guess you are. I guess you've got pretty far along," said the frontier cynic. He tilted
his chair back and smiled at the child whose primitive brain he had tampered with so easily.
The child stood looking at him with intent black eyes. "Better wait, Cheschapah. Come again.
Medicine heap better after a while."

The Indian's quick ear caught the insincerity without understanding it. "You give me that quick!"
he said, suddenly terrible.

"Oh, all right, Cheschapah. You know more medicine than me."

"Yes, I know more."

The white man brought a pot of scarlet paint, and the Indian's staring eyes contracted. Kinney
took the battered cavalry sabre in his hand, and set its point in the earth floor of the cabin.
"Stand back," he said, in mysterious tones, and Cheschapah shrank from the impending sorcery.
Now Kinney had been to school once, in his Eastern childhood, and there had committed to memory
portions of Shakespeare, Mrs. Hemans, and other poets out of a Reader. He had never forgotten
a single word of any of them, and it now occurred to him that for the purposes of an incantation
it would be both entertaining for himself and impressive to Cheschapah if he should recite
"The Battle of Hohenlinden." He was drawing squares and circles with the point of the sabre.

"No," he said to himself, "that piece won't do. He knows too much English. Some of them words
might strike him as bein' too usual, and he'd start to kill me, and spoil the whole thing.
'Munich' and 'chivalry' are snortin', but 'sun was low' ain't worth a damn. I guess--"

He stopped guessing, for the noon recess at school came in his mind, like a picture, and with
it certain old-time preliminaries to the game of tag.

     "'Eeny, meeny, money, my,'"

said Kinney, tapping himself, the sabre, the paint-pot, and Cheschapah in turn, one for each
word. The incantation was begun. He held the sabre solemnly upright, while Cheschapah tried
to control his excited breathing where he stood flattened against the wall.

     "'Butter, leather, boney, stry;
     Hare-bit, frost-neck,
     Harrico, barrico, whee, why, whoa, whack!'

"You're it, Cheschapah." After that the weapon was given its fresh coat of paint, and Cheschapah
went away with his new miracle in the dark.

"He is it," mused Kinney, grave, but inwardly lively. He was one of those sincere artists who
need no popular commendation. "And whoever he does catch, it won't be me," he concluded. He
felt pretty sure there would be war now.

Dawn showed the summoned troops near the agency at the corral, standing to horse. Cheschapah
gathered his hostiles along the brow of the ridge in the rear of the agency buildings, and
the two forces watched each other across the intervening four hundred yards.

"There they are," said the agent, jumping about. "Shoot them, colonel; shoot them!"

"You can't do that, you know," said the officer, "without an order from the President, or an
overt act from the Indians."

So nothing happened, and Cheschapah told his friends the white men were already afraid of him.
He saw more troops arrive, water their horses in the river, form line outside the corral, and
dismount. He made ready at this movement, and all Indian on-lookers scattered from the expected
fight. Yet the white man stayed quiet. It was issue day, but no families remained after drawing
their rations. They had had no dance the night before, as was usual, and they did not linger
a moment now, but came and departed with their beef and flour at once.

"I have done all this," said Cheschapah to Two Whistles.

"Cheschapah is a great man," assented the friend and follower. He had gone at once to his hay-field
on his return from the Piegans, but some one had broken the little Indian's fence, and cattle
were wandering in what remained of his crop.

