"On the contrary, that is why we go," said Mr. King. "I've a fancy that I should like to open
a season once myself."

"Besides," added Mr. Forbes, "we want to see nature unadorned. You know, Mrs. Cortlandt, how
people sometimes spoil a place."

"I'm not sure," answered the lady, laughing, "that people have not spoiled you two and you
need a rest. Where else do you go?"

"Well, I thought," replied Mr. King, "from what I heard, that Atlantic City might appear best
with nobody there."

"Oh, there's always some one there. You know, it is a winter resort now. And, by the way--But
there's my train, and the young ladies are beckoning to me." (Mrs. Cortlandt was never seen
anywhere without a party of young ladies.) "Yes, the Bensons passed through Washington the
other day from the South, and spoke of going to Atlantic City to tone up a little before the
season, and perhaps you know that Mrs. Benson took a great fancy to you, Mr. King. Good-by,
au revoir," and the lady was gone with her bevy of girls, struggling in the stream that poured
towards one of the wicket-gates.

"Atlantic City? Why, Stanhope, you don't think of going there also?"

"I didn't think of it, but, hang it all, my dear fellow, duty is duty. There are some places
you must see in order to be well informed. Atlantic City is an important place; a great many
of its inhabitants spend their winters in Philadelphia."

"And this Mrs. Benson?"

"No, I'm not going down there to see Mrs. Benson."

Expectancy was the word when our travelers stepped out of the car at Cape May station. Except
for some people who seemed to have business there, they were the only passengers. It was the
ninth of June. Everything was ready--the sea, the sky, the delicious air, the long line of
gray-colored coast, the omnibuses, the array of hotel tooters. As they stood waiting in irresolution
a grave man of middle age and a disinterested manner sauntered up to the travelers, and slipped
into friendly relations with them. It was impossible not to incline to a person so obliging
and well stocked with local information. Yes, there were several good hotels open. It didn't
make much difference; there was one near at hand, not pretentious, but probably as comfortable
as any. People liked the table; last summer used to come there from other hotels to get a meal.
He was going that way, and would walk along with them. He did, and conversed most interestingly
on the way. Our travelers felicitated themselves upon falling into such good hands, but when
they reached the hotel designated it had such a gloomy and in fact boardinghouse air that they
hesitated, and thought they would like to walk on a little farther and see the town before
settling. And their friend appeared to feel rather grieved about it, not for himself, but for
them. He had moreover, the expression of a fisherman who has lost a fish after he supposed
it was securely hooked. But our young friends had been angled for in a good many waters, and
they told the landlord, for it was the landlord, that while they had no doubt his was the best
hotel in the place, they would like to look at some not so good. The one that attracted them,
though they could not see in what the attraction lay, was a tall building gay with fresh paint
in many colors, some pretty window balconies, and a portico supported by high striped columns
that rose to the fourth story. They were fond of color, and were taken by six little geraniums
planted in a circle amid the sand in front of the house, which were waiting for the season
to open before they began to grow. With hesitation they stepped upon the newly varnished piazza
and the newly varnished office floor, for every step left a footprint. The chairs, disposed
in a long line on the piazza, waiting for guests, were also varnished, as the artist discovered
when he sat in one of them and was held fast. It was all fresh and delightful. The landlord
and the clerks had smiles as wide as the open doors; the waiters exhibited in their eagerness
a good imitation of unselfish service.

It was very pleasant to be alone in the house, and to be the first-fruits of such great expectations.
The first man of the season is in such a different position from the last. He is like the King
of Bavaria alone in his royal theatre. The ushers give him the best seat in the house, he hears
the tuning of the instruments, the curtain is about to rise, and all for him. It is a very
cheerful desolation, for it has a future, and everything quivers with the expectation of life
and gayety. Whereas the last man is like one who stumbles out among the empty benches when
the curtain has fallen and the play is done. Nothing is so melancholy as the shabbiness of
a watering-place at the end of the season, where is left only the echo of past gayety, the
last guests are scurrying away like leaves before the cold, rising wind, the varnish has worn
off, shutters are put up, booths are dismantled, the shows are packing up their tawdry ornaments,
and the autumn leaves collect in the corners of the gaunt buildings.

Could this be the Cape May about which hung so many traditions of summer romance? Where were
those crowds of Southerners, with slaves and chariots, and the haughtiness of a caste civilization,
and the belles from Baltimore and Philadelphia and Charleston and Richmond, whose smiles turned
the heads of the last generation? Had that gay society danced itself off into the sea, and
left not even a phantom of itself behind? As he sat upon the veranda, King could not rid himself
of the impression that this must be a mocking dream, this appearance of emptiness and solitude.
Why, yes, he was certainly in a delusion, at least in a reverie. The place was alive. An omnibus
drove to the door (though no sound of wheels was heard); the waiters rushed out, a fat man
descended, a little girl was lifted down, a pretty woman jumped from the steps with that little
extra bound on the ground which all women confessedly under forty always give when they alight
from a vehicle, a large woman lowered herself cautiously out, with an anxious look, and a file
of men stooped and emerged, poking their umbrellas and canes in each other's backs. Mr. King
plainly saw the whole party hurry into the office and register their names, and saw the clerk
repeatedly touch a bell and throw back his head and extend his hand to a servant. Curious to
see who the arrivals were, he went to the register. No names were written there. But there
were other carriages at the door, there was a pile of trunks on the veranda, which he nearly
stumbled over, although his foot struck nothing, and the chairs were full, and people were
strolling up and down the piazza. He noticed particularly one couple promenading--a slender
brunette, with a brilliant complexion; large dark eyes that made constant play--could it be
the belle of Macon?--and a gentleman of thirty-five, in black frock-coat, unbuttoned, with
a wide-brimmed soft hat-clothes not quite the latest style--who had a good deal of manner,
and walked apart from the young lady, bending towards her with an air of devotion. Mr. King
stood one side and watched the endless procession up and down, up and down, the strollers,
the mincers, the languid, the nervous steppers; noted the eye-shots, the flashing or the languishing
look that kills, and never can be called to account for the mischief it does; but not a sound
did he hear of the repartee and the laughter. The place certainly was thronged. The avenue
in front was crowded with vehicles of all sorts; there were groups strolling on the broad beach-children
with their tiny pails and shovels digging pits close to the advancing tide, nursery-maids in
fast colors, boys in knickerbockers racing on the beach, people lying on the sand, resolute
walkers, whose figures loomed tall in the evening light, doing their constitutional. People
were passing to and fro on the long iron pier that spider-legged itself out into the sea; the
two rooms midway were filled with sitters taking the evening breeze; and the large ball and
music room at the end, with its spacious outside promenade-yes, there were dancers there, and
the band was playing. Mr. King could see the fiddlers draw their bows, and the corneters lift
up their horns and get red in the face, and the lean man slide his trombone, and the drummer
flourish his sticks, but not a note of music reached him. It might have been a performance
of ghosts for all the effect at this distance. Mr. King remarked upon this dumb-show to a gentleman
in a blue coat and white vest and gray hat, leaning against a column near him. The gentleman
made no response. It was most singular. Mr. King stepped back to be out of the way of some
children racing down the piazza, and, half stumbling, sat down in the lap of a dowager--no,
not quite; the chair was empty, and he sat down in the fresh varnish, to which his clothes
stuck fast. Was this a delusion? No. The tables were filled in the dining-room, the waiters
were scurrying about, there were ladies on the balconies looking dreamily down upon the animated
scene below; all the movements of gayety and hilarity in the height of a season. Mr. King approached
a group who were standing waiting for a carriage, but they did not see him, and did not respond
to his trumped-up question about the next train. Were these, then, shadows, or was he a spirit
himself? Were these empty omnibuses and carriages that discharged ghostly passengers? And all
this promenading and flirting and languishing and love-making, would it come to nothing-nothing
more than usual? There was a charm about it all--the movement, the color, the gray sand, and
the rosy blush on the sea--a lovely place, an enchanted place. Were these throngs the guests
that were to come, or those that had been herein other seasons? Why could not the former "materialize"
as well as the latter? Is it not as easy to make nothing out of what never yet existed as out
of what has ceased to exist? The landlord, by faith, sees all this array which is prefigured
so strangely to Mr. King; and his comely young wife sees it and is ready for it; and the fat
son at the supper table--a living example of the good eating to be had here--is serene, and
has the air of being polite and knowing to a houseful. This scrap of a child, with the aplomb
of a man of fifty, wise beyond his fatness, imparts information to the travelers about the
wine, speaks to the waiter with quiet authority, and makes these mature men feel like boys
before the gravity of our perfect flower of American youth who has known no childhood. This
boy at least is no phantom; the landlord is real, and the waiters, and the food they bring.

"I suppose," said Mr. King to his friend, "that we are opening the season. Did you see anything
outdoors?"

"Yes; a horseshoe-crab about a mile below here on the smooth sand, with a long dotted trail
behind him, a couple of girls in a pony-cart who nearly drove over me, and a tall young lady
with a red parasol, accompanied by a big black-and-white dog, walking rapidly, close to the
edge of the sea, towards the sunset. It's just lovely, the silvery sweep of coast in this light."

"It seems a refined sort of place in its outlines, and quietly respectable. They tell me here
that they don't want the excursion crowds that overrun Atlantic City, but an Atlantic City
man, whom I met at the pier, said that Cape May used to be the boss, but that Atlantic City
had got the bulge on it now--had thousands to the hundreds here. To get the bulge seems a desirable
thing in America, and I think we'd better see what a place is like that is popular, whether
fashion recognizes it or not."

The place lost nothing in the morning light, and it was a sparkling morning with a fresh breeze.
Nature, with its love of simple, sweeping lines, and its feeling for atmospheric effect, has
done everything for the place, and bad taste has not quite spoiled it. There is a sloping,
shallow beach, very broad, of fine, hard sand, excellent for driving or for walking, extending
unbroken three miles down to Cape May Point, which has hotels and cottages of its own, and
lifesaving and signal stations. Off to the west from this point is the long sand line to Cape
Henlopen, fourteen miles away, and the Delaware shore. At Cape May Point there is a little
village of painted wood houses, mostly cottages to let, and a permanent population of a few
hundred inhabitants. From the pier one sees a mile and a half of hotels and cottages, fronting
south, all flaming, tasteless, carpenter's architecture, gay with paint. The sea expanse is
magnificent, and the sweep of beach is fortunately unencumbered, and vulgarized by no bath-houses
or show-shanties. The bath-houses are in front of the hotels and in their enclosures; then
come the broad drive, and the sand beach, and the sea. The line is broken below by the lighthouse
and a point of land, whereon stands the elephant. This elephant is not indigenous, and he stands
alone in the sand, a wooden sham without an explanation. Why the hotel-keeper's mind along
the coast regards this grotesque structure as a summer attraction it is difficult to see. But
when one resort had him, he became a necessity everywhere. The travelers walked down to this
monster, climbed the stairs in one of his legs, explored the rooms, looked out from the saddle,
and pondered on the problem. This beast was unfinished within and unpainted without, and already
falling into decay. An elephant on the desert, fronting the Atlantic Ocean, had, after all,
a picturesque aspect, and all the more so because he was a deserted ruin.

The elephant was, however, no emptier than the cottages about which our friends strolled. But
the cottages were all ready, the rows of new chairs stood on the fresh piazzas, the windows
were invitingly open, the pathetic little patches of flowers in front tried hard to look festive
in the dry sands, and the stout landladies in their rocking-chairs calmly knitted and endeavored
to appear as if they expected nobody, but had almost a houseful.

Yes, the place was undeniably attractive. The sea had the blue of Nice; why must we always
go to the Mediterranean for an aqua marina, for poetic lines, for delicate shades? What charming
gradations had this picture-gray sand, blue waves, a line of white sails against the pale blue
sky! By the pier railing is a bevy of little girls grouped about an ancient colored man, the
very ideal old Uncle Ned, in ragged, baggy, and disreputable clothes, lazy good-nature oozing
out of every pore of him, kneeling by a telescope pointed to a bunch of white sails on the
horizon; a dainty little maiden, in a stiff white skirt and golden hair, leans against him
and tiptoes up to the object-glass, shutting first one eye and then the other, and making nothing
out of it all. "Why, ov co'se you can't see nuffln, honey," said Uncle Ned, taking a peep,
"wid the 'scope p'inted up in the sky."

In order to pass from Cape May to Atlantic City one takes a long circuit by rail through the
Jersey sands. Jersey is a very prolific State, but the railway traveler by this route is excellently
prepared for Atlantic City, for he sees little but sand, stunted pines, scrub oaks, small frame
houses, sometimes trying to hide in the clumps of scrub oaks, and the villages are just collections
of the same small frame houses hopelessly decorated with scroll-work and obtrusively painted,
standing in lines on sandy streets, adorned with lean shade-trees. The handsome Jersey people
were not traveling that day--the two friends had a theory about the relation of a sandy soil
to female beauty--and when the artist got out his pencil to catch the types of the country,
he was well rewarded. There were the fat old women in holiday market costumes, strong-featured,
positive, who shook their heads at each other and nodded violently and incessantly, and all
talked at once; the old men in rusty suits, thin, with a deprecatory manner, as if they had
heard that clatter for fifty years, and perky, sharp-faced girls in vegetable hats, all long-nosed
and thin-lipped. And though the day was cool, mosquitoes had the bad taste to invade the train.
At the junction, a small collection of wooden shanties, where the travelers waited an hour,
they heard much of the glories of Atlantic City from the postmistress, who was waiting for
an excursion some time to go there (the passion for excursions seems to be a growing one),
and they made the acquaintance of a cow tied in the room next the ticket-office, probably also
waiting for a passage to the city by the sea.

And a city it is. If many houses, endless avenues, sand, paint, make a city, the artist confessed
that this was one. Everything is on a large scale. It covers a large territory, the streets
run at right angles, the avenues to the ocean take the names of the states. If the town had
been made to order and sawed out by one man, it could not be more beautifully regular and more
satisfactorily monotonous. There is nothing about it to give the most commonplace mind in the
world a throb of disturbance. The hotels, the cheap shops, the cottages, are all of wood, and,
with three or four exceptions in the thousands, they are all practically alike, all ornamented
with scroll-work, as if cut out by the jig-saw, all vividly painted, all appealing to a primitive
taste just awakening to the appreciation of the gaudy chromo and the illuminated and consoling
household motto. Most of the hotels are in the town, at considerable distance from the ocean,
and the majestic old sea, which can be monotonous but never vulgar, is barricaded from the
town by five or six miles of stark-naked plank walk, rows on rows of bath closets, leagues
of flimsy carpentry-work, in the way of cheap-John shops, tin-type booths, peep-shows, go-rounds,
shooting-galleries, pop-beer and cigar shops, restaurants, barber shops, photograph galleries,
summer theatres. Sometimes the plank walk runs for a mile or two, on its piles, between rows
of these shops and booths, and again it drops off down by the waves. Here and there is a gayly-painted
wooden canopy by the shore, with chairs where idlers can sit and watch the frolicking in the
water, or a space railed off, where the select of the hotels lie or lounge in the sand under
red umbrellas. The calculating mind wonders how many million feet of lumber there are in this
unpicturesque barricade, and what gigantic forests have fallen to make this timber front to
the sea. But there is one thing man cannot do. He has made this show to suit himself, he has
pushed out several iron piers into the sea, and erected, of course, a skating rink on the end
of one of them. But the sea itself, untamed, restless, shining, dancing, raging, rolls in from
the southward, tossing the white sails on its vast expanse, green, blue, leaden, white-capped,
many-colored, never two minutes the same, sounding with its eternal voice I knew not what rebuke
to man.

When Mr. King wrote his and his friend's name in the book at the Mansion House, he had the
curiosity to turn over the leaves, and it was not with much surprise that he read there the
names of A. J. Benson, wife, and daughter, Cyrusville, Ohio.

"Oh, I see!" said the artist; "you came down here to see Mr. Benson!"

That gentleman was presently discovered tilted back in a chair on the piazza, gazing vacantly
into the vacant street with that air of endurance that fathers of families put on at such resorts.
But he brightened up when Mr. King made himself known.

"I'm right glad to see you, sir. And my wife and daughter will be. I was saying to my wife
yesterday that I couldn't stand this sort of thing much longer."

"You don't find it lively?"

"Well, the livelier it is the less I shall like it, I reckon. The town is well enough. It's
one of the smartest places on the coast. I should like to have owned the ground and sold out
and retired. This sand is all gold. They say they sell the lots by the bushel and count every
sand. You can see what it is, boards and paint and sand. Fine houses, too; miles of them."

"And what do you do?"

"Oh, they say there's plenty to do. You can ride around in the sand; you can wade in it if
you want to, and go down to the beach and walk up and down the plank walk--walk up and down--walk
up and down. They like it. You can't bathe yet without getting pneumonia. They have gone there
now. Irene goes because she says she can't stand the gayety of the parlor."

From the parlor came the sound of music. A young girl who had the air of not being afraid of
a public parlor was drumming out waltzes on the piano, more for the entertainment of herself
than of the half-dozen ladies who yawned over their worsted-work. As she brought her piece
to an end with a bang, a pretty, sentimental miss with a novel in her hand, who may not have
seen Mr. King looking in at the door, ran over to the player and gave her a hug. "That's beautiful!
that's perfectly lovely, Mamie!"--"This," said the player, taking up another sheet, "has not
been played much in New York." Probably not, in that style, thought Mr. King, as the girl clattered
through it.

There was no lack of people on the promenade, tramping the boards, or hanging about the booths
where the carpenters and painters were at work, and the shop men and women were unpacking the
corals and the sea-shells, and the cheap jewelry, and the Swiss wood-carving, the toys, the
tinsel brooches, and agate ornaments, and arranging the soda fountains, and putting up the
shelves for the permanent pie. The sort of preparation going on indicated the kind of crowd
expected. If everything had a cheap and vulgar look, our wandering critics remembered that
it is never fair to look behind the scenes of a show, and that things would wear a braver appearance
by and by. And if the women on the promenade were homely and ill-dressed, even the bonnes in
unpicturesque costumes, and all the men were slouchy and stolid, how could any one tell what
an effect of gayety and enjoyment there might be when there were thousands of such people,
and the sea was full of bathers, and the flags were flying, and the bands were tooting, and
all the theatres were opened, and acrobats and spangled women and painted red-men offered those
attractions which, like government, are for the good of the greatest number? What will you
have? Shall vulgarity be left just vulgar, and have no apotheosis and glorification? This is
very fine of its kind, and a resort for the million. The million come here to enjoy themselves.
Would you have an art-gallery here, and high-priced New York and Paris shops lining the way?

"Look at the town," exclaimed the artist, "and see what money can do, and satisfy the average
taste without the least aid from art. It's just wonderful. I've tramped round the place, and,
taking out a cottage or two, there isn't a picturesque or pleasing view anywhere. I tell you
people know what they want, and enjoy it when they get it."

"You needn't get excited about it," said Mr. King. "Nobody said it wasn't commonplace, and
glaringly vulgar if you like, and if you like to consider it representative of a certain stage
in national culture, I hope it is not necessary to remind you that the United States can beat
any other people in any direction they choose to expand themselves. You'll own it when you've
seen watering-places enough."

After this defense of the place, Mr. King owned it might be difficult for Mr. Forbes to find
anything picturesque to sketch. What figures, to be sure! As if people were obliged to be shapely
or picturesque for the sake of a wandering artist! "I could do a tree," growled Mr. Forbes,
"or a pile of boards; but these shanties!"

When they were well away from the booths and bath-houses, Mr. King saw in the distance two
ladies. There was no mistaking one of them--the easy carriage, the grace of movement. No such
figure had been afield all day. The artist was quick to see that. Presently they came up with
them, and found them seated on a bench, looking off upon Brigantine Island, a low sand dune
with some houses and a few trees against the sky, the most pleasing object in view.

Mrs. Benson did not conceal the pleasure she felt in seeing Mr. King again, and was delighted
to know his friend; and, to say the truth, Miss Irene gave him a very cordial greeting.

"I'm 'most tired to death," said Mrs. Benson, when they were all seated. "But this air does
me good. Don't you like Atlantic City?"

"I like it better than I did at first." If the remark was intended for Irene, she paid no attention
to it, being absorbed in explaining to Mr. Forbes why she preferred the deserted end of the
promenade.

"It's a place that grows on you. I guess it's grown the wrong way on Irene and father; but
I like the air--after the South. They say we ought to see it in August, when all Philadelphia
is here."

"I should think it might be very lively."

"Yes; but the promiscuous bathing. I don't think I should like that. We are not brought up
to that sort of thing in Ohio."

"No? Ohio is more like France, I suppose?"

"Like France!" exclaimed the old lady, looking at him in amazement--"like France! Why, France
is the wickedest place in the world."

"No doubt it is, Mrs. Benson. But at the sea resorts the sexes bathe separately."

"Well, now! I suppose they have to there."

"Yes; the older nations grow, the more self-conscious they become."

"I don't believe, for all you say, Mr. King, the French have any more conscience than we have."

"Nor do I, Mrs. Benson. I was only trying to say that they pay more attention to appearances."

"Well, I was brought up to think it's one thing to appear, and another thing to be," said Mrs.
Benson, as dismissing the subject. "So your friend's an artist? Does he paint? Does he take
portraits? There was an artist at Cyrusville last winter who painted portraits, but Irene wouldn't
let him do hers. I'm glad we've met Mr. Forbes. I've always wanted to have--"

"Oh, mother," exclaimed Irene, who always appeared to keep one ear for her mother's conversation,
"I was just saying to Mr. Forbes that he ought to see the art exhibitions down at the other
end of the promenade, and the pictures of the people who come here in August. Are you rested?"

The party moved along, and Mr. King, by a movement that seemed to him more natural than it
did to Mr. Forbes, walked with Irene, and the two fell to talking about the last spring's trip
in the South.

"Yes, we enjoyed the exhibition, but I am not sure but I should have enjoyed New Orleans more
without the exhibition. That took so much time. There is nothing so wearisome as an exhibition.
But New Orleans was charming. I don't know why, for it's the flattest, dirtiest, dampest city
in the world; but it is charming. Perhaps it's the people, or the Frenchiness of it, or the
tumble-down, picturesque old creole quarter, or the roses; I didn't suppose there were in the
world so many roses; the town was just wreathed and smothered with them. And you did not see it?"

"No; I have been to exhibitions, and I thought I should prefer to take New Orleans by itself
some other time. You found the people hospitable?"

"Well, they were not simply hospitable; they were that, to be sure, for father had letters
to some of the leading men; but it was the general air of friendliness and good-nature everywhere,
of agreeableness--it went along with the roses and the easy-going life. You didn't feel all
the time on a strain. I don't suppose they are any better than our people, and I've no doubt
I should miss a good deal there after a while--a certain tonic and purpose in life. But, do
you know, it is pleasant sometimes to be with people who haven't so many corners as our people
have. But you went south from Fortress Monroe?"

"Yes; I went to Florida."

"Oh, that must be a delightful country!"

"Yes, it's a very delightful land, or will be when it is finished. It needs advertising now.
It needs somebody to call attention to it. The modest Northerners who have got hold of it,
and staked it all out into city lots, seem to want to keep it all to themselves."

"How do you mean 'finished'?"

"Why, the State is big enough, and a considerable portion of it has a good foundation. What
it wants is building up. There's plenty of water and sand, and palmetto roots and palmetto
trees, and swamps, and a perfectly wonderful vegetation of vines and plants and flowers. What
it needs is land--at least what the Yankees call land. But it is coming on. A good deal of
the State below Jacksonville is already ten to fifteen feet above the ocean."

"But it's such a place for invalids!"

"Yes, it is a place for invalids. There are two kinds of people there--invalids and speculators.
Thousands of people in the bleak North, and especially in the Northwest, cannot live in the
winter anywhere else than in Florida. It's a great blessing to this country to have such a
sanitarium. As I said, all it needs is building up, and then it wouldn't be so monotonous and
malarious."

"But I had such a different idea of it!"

"Well, your idea is probably right. You cannot do justice to a place by describing it literally.
Most people are fascinated by Florida: the fact is that anything is preferable to our Northern
climate from February to May."

"And you didn't buy an orange plantation, or a town?"

"No; I was discouraged. Almost any one can have a town who will take a boat and go off somewhere
with a surveyor, and make a map."

The truth is--the present writer had it from Major Blifill, who runs a little steamboat upon
one of the inland creeks where the alligator is still numerous enough to be an entertainment--that
Mr. King was no doubt malarious himself when he sailed over Florida. Blifill says he offended
a whole boatfull one day when they were sailing up the St. John's. Probably he was tired of
water, and swamp and water, and scraggy trees and water. The captain was on the bow, expatiating
to a crowd of listeners on the fertility of the soil and the salubrity of the climate. He had
himself bought a piece of ground away up there somewhere for two hundred dollars, cleared it
up, and put in orange-trees, and thousands wouldn't buy it now. And Mr. King, who listened
attentively, finally joined in with the questioners, and said, "Captain, what is the average
price of land down in this part of Florida by the--gallon?"

They had come down to the booths, and Mrs. Benson was showing the artist the shells, piles
of conchs, and other outlandish sea-fabrications in which it is said the roar of the ocean
can be heard when they are hundreds of miles away from the sea. It was a pretty thought, Mr.
Forbes said, and he admired the open shells that were painted on the inside--painted in bright
blues and greens, with dabs of white sails and a lighthouse, or a boat with a bare-armed, resolute
young woman in it, sending her bark spinning over waves mountain-high.

"Yes," said the artist, "what cheerfulness those works of art will give to the little parlors
up in the country, when they are set up with other shells on the what-not in the corner! These
shells always used to remind me of missionaries and the cause of the heathen; but when I see
them now I shall think of Atlantic City."

"But the representative things here," interrupted Irene, "are the photographs, the tintypes.
To see them is just as good as staying here to see the people when they come."

"Yes," responded Mr. King, "I think art cannot go much further in this direction."

If there were not miles of these show-cases of tintypes, there were at least acres of them.
Occasionally an instantaneous photograph gave a lively picture of the beach, when the water
was full of bathers-men, women, children, in the most extraordinary costumes for revealing
or deforming the human figure--all tossing about in the surf. But most of the pictures were
taken on dry land, of single persons, couples, and groups in their bathing suits. Perhaps such
an extraordinary collection of humanity cannot be seen elsewhere in the world, such a uniformity
of one depressing type reduced to its last analysis by the sea-toilet. Sometimes it was a young
man and a maiden, handed down to posterity in dresses that would have caused their arrest in
the street, sentimentally reclining on a canvas rock. Again it was a maiden with flowing hair,
raised hands clasped, eyes upturned, on top of a crag, at the base of which the waves were
breaking in foam. Or it was the same stalwart maiden, or another as good, in a boat which stood
on end, pulling through the surf with one oar, and dragging a drowning man (in a bathing suit
also) into the boat with her free hand. The legend was, "Saved." There never was such heroism
exhibited by young women before, with such raiment, as was shown in these rare works of art.

As they walked back to the hotel through a sandy avenue lined with jig-saw architecture, Miss
Benson pointed out to them some things that she said had touched her a good deal. In the patches
of sand before each house there was generally an oblong little mound set about with a rim of
stones, or, when something more artistic could be afforded, with shells. On each of these little
graves was a flower, a sickly geranium, or a humble marigold, or some other floral token of
affection.

Mr. Forbes said he never was at a watering-place before where they buried the summer boarders
in the front yard. Mrs. Benson didn't like joking on such subjects, and Mr. King turned the
direction of the conversation by remarking that these seeming trifles were really of much account
in these days, and he took from his pocket a copy of the city newspaper, 'The Summer Sea-Song,'
and read some of the leading items: "S., our eye is on you." "The Slopers have come to their
cottage on Q Street, and come to stay." "Mr. E. P. Borum has painted his front steps." "Mr.
Diffendorfer's marigold is on the blow." And so on, and so on. This was probably the marigold
mentioned that they were looking at.

The most vivid impression, however, made upon the visitor in this walk was that of paint. It
seemed unreal that there could be so much paint in the world and so many swearing colors. But
it ceased to be a dream, and they were taken back into the hard, practical world, when, as
they turned the corner, Irene pointed out her favorite sign:

          Silas Lapham, mineral paint.
             Branch Office.

The artist said, a couple of days after this morning, that he had enough of it. "Of course,"
he added, "it is a great pleasure to me to sit and talk with Mrs. Benson, while you and that
pretty girl walk up and down the piazza all the evening; but I'm easily satisfied, and two
evenings did for me."

So that, much as Mr. King was charmed with Atlantic City, and much as he regretted not awaiting
the arrival of the originals of the tintypes, he gave in to the restlessness of the artist
for other scenes; but not before he had impressed Mrs. Benson with a notion of the delights
of Newport in July.

III. THE CATSKILLS

The view of the Catskills from a certain hospitable mansion on the east side of the Hudson
is better than any mew from those delectable hills. The artist said so one morning late in
June, and Mr. King agreed with him, as a matter of fact, but would have no philosophizing about
it, as that anticipation is always better than realization; and when Mr. Forbes went on to
say that climbing a mountain was a good deal like marriage--the world was likely to look a
little flat once that cerulean height was attained--Mr. King only remarked that that was a
low view to take of the subject, but he would confess that it was unreasonable to expect that
any rational object could fulfill, or even approach, the promise held out by such an exquisite
prospect as that before them.

The friends were standing where the Catskill hills lay before them in echelon towards the river,
the ridges lapping over each other and receding in the distance, a gradation of lines most
artistically drawn, still further refined by shades of violet, which always have the effect
upon the contemplative mind of either religious exaltation or the kindling of a sentiment which
is in the young akin to the emotion of love. While the artist was making some memoranda of
these outlines, and Mr. King was drawing I know not what auguries of hope from these purple
heights, a young lady seated upon a rock near by--a young lady just stepping over the border-line
of womanhood--had her eyes also fixed upon those dreamy distances, with that look we all know
so well, betraying that shy expectancy of life which is unconfessed, that tendency to maidenly
reverie which it were cruel to interpret literally. At the moment she is more interesting than
the Catskills--the brown hair, the large eyes unconscious of anything but the most natural
emotion, the shapely waist just beginning to respond to the call of the future--it is a pity
that we shall never see her again, and that she has nothing whatever to do with our journey.
She also will have her romance; fate will meet her in the way some day, and set her pure heart
wildly beating, and she will know what those purple distances mean. Happiness, tragedy, anguish--who
can tell what is in store for her? I cannot but feel profound sadness at meeting her in this
casual way and never seeing her again. Who says that the world is not full of romance and pathos
and regret as we go our daily way in it? You meet her at a railway station; there is the flutter
of a veil, the gleam of a scarlet bird, the lifting of a pair of eyes--she is gone; she is
entering a drawing-room, and stops a moment and turns away; she is looking from a window as
you pass--it is only a glance out of eternity; she stands for a second upon a rock looking
seaward; she passes you at the church door--is that all? It is discovered that instantaneous
photographs can be taken. They are taken all the time; some of them are never developed, but
I suppose these impressions are all there on the sensitive plate, and that the plate is permanently
affected by the impressions. The pity of it is that the world is so full of these undeveloped
knowledges of people worth knowing and friendships worth making.

