Transcriber's Note: Footnotes are placed at the end of the relevant paragraph. In Chapters
I and II, the printed "Mitra" was changed to "Mithra" to match other occurrences in the text,
which predominate. In Chapter II, the notation [)a] represents the letter a with breve. Also,
an instance in the original text of the word "JHVH" in the Hebrew alphabet has been changed
to the Roman.

THE LORDS OF THE GHOSTLAND

A History of the Ideal

By EDGAR SALTUS

  "Errons, les doigts unis, dans
  l'Alhambra du songe."
                    Renée Vivien

  NEW YORK
  MITCHELL KENNERLEY
  MCMVII

  COPYRIGHT, 1907
  BY EDGAR SALTUS

The Plimpton Press Norwood Mass. USA.

By Mr. Saltus

  HISTORIA AMORIS
  IMPERIAL PURPLE
  MARY MAGDALEN
  THE POMPS OF SATAN
  THE PERFUME OF EROS
  VANITY SQUARE

THE LORDS OF THE GHOSTLAND

     I Brahma                    7

    II Ormuzd                   39

   III Amon-Râ                  60

    IV Bel-Marduk               81

     V Jehovah                 109

    VI Zeus                    140

   VII Jupiter                 166

  VIII The Nec Plus Ultra      189

THE LORDS OF THE GHOSTLAND

I

BRAHMA

The ideal is the essence of poetry. In the virginal innocence of the world, poetry was a term
that meant discourse of the gods. A world grown grey has learned to regard the gods as diseases
of language. Conceived, it may be, in fevers of fancy, perhaps, originally, they were but deified
words. Yet, it is as children of beauty and of dream that they remain.

"Mortal has made the immortal," the Rig-Veda explicitly declares. The making was surely slow.
In tracing the genealogy of the divine, it has been found that its root was fear. The root,
dispersed by light, ultimately dissolved. But, meanwhile, it founded religion, which, revealed
in storm and panic, for prophets had ignorance and dread. The gods were not then. There were
demons only, more exactly there were diabolized expressions invented to denominate natural
phenomena and whatever else perturbed. It was in the evolution of the demoniac that the divine
appeared. Through one of time's unmeasurable gaps there floated the idea that perhaps the phenomena
that alarmed were but the unconscious agents of superior minds. At the suggestion, irresistibly
a dramatization of nature began in which the gods were born, swarms of them, nebulous, wayward,
uncertain, that, through further gaps, became concrete, became occasionally reducible to two
great divinities, earth and sky, whose union was imagined--a hymen which the rain suggested--and
from which broader conceptions proceeded and grander gods emerged.

The most poetic of these are perhaps the Hindu. At the heraldings of newer gods, the lords
of other ghostlands have, after battling violently, swooned utterly away. But though many a
fresher faith has been brandished at them, apathetically, in serene indifference, the princes
of the Aryan sky endure.

It is their poetry that has preserved them. To their creators poetry was abundantly dispensed.
To no other people have myths been as frankly transparent. To none other, save only their cousins
the Persians, have fancies more luminous occurred. The Persians so polished their dreams that
they entranced the world that was. Poets can do no more. The Hindus too were poets. They were
children as well. Their first lisp, the first recorded stammer of Indo-European speech, is
audible still in the Rig-Veda, a bundle of hymns tied together, four thousand years ago, for
the greater glory of Fire. The worship of the latter led to that of the Sun and ignited the
antique altars. It flamed in Persia, lit perhaps the shrine of Vesta, afterward dazzled the
Incas, igniting, meanwhile, not altars merely, but purgatory itself.

