And to this description of loss men are nowadays peculiarly exposed. The modern world is all
battle-field; the smoke, the dust, the din fill every eye and ear; and the hill-top of Lucretius,
where is it? The indispensable, terrible newspaper, with its late allies, the Titans and sprites
of steam and electricity,--bringing to each retired nook, and thrusting in upon each otherwise
peaceful household, the crimes, follies, fears, solicitudes, doubts, problems of all kingdoms
and peoples,--exasperates the former Scotch mist of impressions into a flooding rain, and almost
threatens to swamp the brain of mankind. The incitement to thought is ever greater; but the
possibility of thinking, especially of thinking in a deep, simple, central way, is ever less.
Problems multiply, but how to attend to them is ever a still greater problem. Guests of the
intellect and imagination accumulate until the master of the house is pushed out of doors,
and hospitality ceases from the mere excess of its occasion. That must be a greater than Homer
who should now do Homer's work. He, there in his sweet, deep-skied Ionia, privileged with an
experience so simple and yet so salient and powerful, might well hope to act upon this victoriously
by his spirit, might hope to transmute it, as indeed he did, into melodious and enduring human
suggestion. Would it have been all the same, had he lived in our type-setting modern world,
with its multitudinous knowledges, its aroused conscience, its spurred and yet thwarted sympathies,
its new incitements to egotism also, and new tools and appliances for egotism to use,--placed,
as it were, in the focus of a vast whispering-gallery, where all the sounds of heaven and earth
came crowding, contending, incessant upon his ear? One sees at a glance how the serious thought
and poetry of Greece cling to a few master facts, not being compelled to fight always with
the many-headed monster of detail; and this suggests to me that our literature may fall short
of Grecian amplitude, depth, and simplicity, not wholly from inferiority of power, but from
complications appertaining to our position.

The problem of our time is, How to digest and assimilate the Newspaper? To complain of it,
to desire its abolition, is an anachronism of the will: it is to complain that time proceeds,
and that events follow each other in due sequence. It is hardly too bold to say that the newspaper
is the modern world, as distinct from the antique and the mediaeval. It represents, by its
advent, that epoch in human history wherein each man must begin, in proportion to his capability
of sympathy and consideration, to collate his private thoughts, fortunes, interests with those
of the human race at large. We are now in the crude openings of this epoch, fevered by its
incidents and demands; and one of its tokens is a general exhaustion of the nervous system
and failure of health, both here and in Europe,--those of most sensitive spirit, and least
retired and sheltered from the impressions of the time, suffering most. All this will end,
must end, victoriously. In the mean time can we not somewhat adjust ourselves to this new condition?

One thing we can and must not fail to do: we can learn to understand and appreciate Rest. In
particular, we should build up and reinforce the powers of the night to offset this new intensity
of the day. Such, indeed, as the day now is has it ever been, though in a less degree: always
it has cast upon men impressions significant, insignificant, and of an ill significance, promiscuously
and in excess; and always sleep has been the filter of memory, the purifier of experience,
providing a season that follows closely upon the impressions of the day, ere yet they are too
deeply imbedded, in which our deeper life may pluck away the adhering burrs from its garments,
and arise disburdened, clean, and free. I make no doubt that Death also performs, though in
an ampler and more thorough way, the same functions. It opposes the tyranny of memory. For
were our experience to go on forever accumulating, unwinnowed, undiminished, every man would
sooner or later break down beneath it; every man would be crushed by his own traditions, becoming
a grave to himself, and drawing the clods over his own head. To relieve us of these accidental
accretions, to give us back to ourselves, is the use, in part, of that sleep which rounds each
day, and of that other sleep--brief, but how deep!--which rounds each human life.

Accordingly, he who sleeps well need not die so soon,--even as in the order of Nature he will
not. He has that other and rarer half of a good memory, namely, a good forgetting. For none
remembers so ill as he that remembers all. "A great German scholar affirmed that he knew not
what it was to forget." Better have been born an idiot! An unwashed memory,--faugh! To us moderns
and Americans, therefore, who need above all things to forget well,--our one imperative want
being a simplification of experience,--to us, more than to all other men, is requisite, in
large measure of benefit, the winnowing-fan of sleep, sleep with its choices and exclusions,
if we would not need the offices of death too soon.

But a function of yet greater depth and moment remains to be indicated. Sleep enables the soul
not only to shed away that which is foreign, but to adopt and assimilate whatever is properly
its own. Dr. Edward Johnson, a man of considerable penetration, though not, perhaps, of a balanced
judgment, has a dictum to the effect that the formation of blood goes on during our waking
hours, but the composition of tissue during those of sleep. I know not upon what grounds of
evidence this statement is made; but one persuades himself that it must be approximately true
of the body, since it is undoubtedly so of the soul. Under the eye of the sun the fluid elements
of character are supplied; but the final edification takes place beneath the stars. Awake,
we think, feel, act; sleeping, we become. Day feeds our consciousness; night, out of those
stores which action has accumulated, nourishes the vital unconsciousness, the pure unit of
the man. During sleep, the valid and serviceable experience of the day is drawn inward, wrought
upon by spiritual catalysis, transmitted into conviction, sentiment, character, life, and made
part of that which is to attract and assimilate all subsequent experience. Who, accordingly,
has not awaked to find some problem already solved with which he had vainly grappled on the
preceding day? It is not merely that in the morning our invigorated powers work more efficiently,
and enable us to reach this solution immediately after awaking. Often, indeed, this occurs;
but there are also numerous instances--and such alone are in point--wherein the work is complete
before one's awakening: not unfrequently it is by the energy itself of the new perception that
the soft bonds of slumber are first broken; the soul hails its new dawn with so lusty a cheer,
that its clarion reaches even to the ear of the body, and we are unconsciously murmuring the
echoes of that joyous salute while yet the iris-hued fragments of our dreams linger about us.
The poet in the morning, if true divine slumber have been vouchsafed him, finds his mind enriched
with sweeter imaginations, the thinker with profounder principles and wider categories: neither
begins the new day where he left the old, but each during his rest has silently, wondrously,
advanced to fresh positions, commanding the world now from nobler summits, and beholding around
him an horizon beyond that over which yesterday's sun rose and set. Milton gives us testimony
very much in point:--

  "My celestial patroness, who deigns
  Her nightly visitation unimplored,
  And dictates to me slumb'ring."

Thus, in one important sense, is day the servant of night, action the minister of rest. I fancy,
accordingly, that Marcus Antoninus may give Heraclitus credit for less than his full meaning
in saying that "men asleep are then also laboring"; for he understands him to signify only
that through such the universe is still accomplishing its ends. Perhaps he meant to indicate
what has been here affirmed,--that in sleep one's personal destiny is still ripening, his true
life proceeding.

But if, as the instance which has been under consideration suggests, these two principles are
of equal dignity, it will follow that the ability to rest profoundly is of no less estimation
than the ability to work powerfully. Indeed, is it not often the condition upon which great
and sustained power of action depends? The medal must have two sides. "Danton," says Carlyle,
"was a great nature that could rest." Were not the force and terror of his performance the
obverse fact? I do not now mean, however true it would be, to say that without rest physical
resources would fail, and action be enfeebled in consequence; I mean that the soul which wants
the attitude of repose wants the condition of power. There is a petulant and meddlesome industry
which proceeds from spiritual debility, and causes more; it is like the sleeplessness and tossing
of exhausted nervous patients, which arises from weakness, and aggravates its occasion. As
few things are equally wearisome, so few are equally wasteful, with a perpetual indistinct
sputter of action, whereby nothing is done and nothing let alone. Half the world breaks out
with action; its performance is cutaneous, of the nature of tetter. Hence is it that in the
world, with such a noise of building, so few edifices are reared.

We require it as a pledge of the sanity of our condition, and consequent wholesomeness of our
action, that we can withhold our hand, and leave the world in that of its Maker. No man is
quite necessary to Omnipotence; grass grew before we were born, and doubtless will continue
to grow when we are dead. If we act, let it be because our soul has somewhat to bring forth,
and not because our fingers itch. We have in these days been emphatically instructed that all
speech not rooted in silence, rooted, that is, in pure, vital, silent Nature, is poor and unworthy;
but we should be aware that action equally requires this solemn and celestial perspective,
this issue out of the never-trodden, noiseless realms of the soul. Only that which comes from
a divine depth can attain to a divine height.

There is a courage of withholding and forbearing greater than any other courage; and before
this Fate itself succumbs. Wellington won the Battle of Waterloo by heroically standing still;
and every hour of that adventurous waiting was heaping up significance for the moment when
at length he should cry, "Up, Guards, and at them !" What Cecil said of Raleigh, "He can toil
terribly," has been styled "an electric touch"; but the "masterly inactivity" of Sir James
Mackintosh, happily appropriated by Mr. Calhoun, carries an equal appeal to intuitive sense,
and has already become proverbial. He is no sufficient hero who in the delays of Destiny, when
his way is hedged up and his hope deferred, cannot reserve his strength and bide his time.
The power of acting greatly includes that of greatly abstaining from action. The leader of
an epoch in affairs should therefore be some Alfred, Bruce, Gustavus Vasa, Cromwell, Washington,
Garibaldi, who can wait while the iron of opportunity heats at the forge of time; and then,
in the moment of its white glow, can so smite as to shape it forever to the uses of mankind.

One should be able not only to wait, but to wait strenuously, sternly, immovably, rooted in
his repose like a mountain oak in the soil; for it may easily happen that the necessity of
refraining shall be most imperative precisely when, the external pressure toward action is
most vehement. Amid the violent urgency of events, therefore, one should learn the art of the
mariner, who, in time of storm lies to, with sails mostly furled, until milder gales permit
him again to spread sail and stretch away. With us, as with him, even a fair wind may blow
so fiercely that one cannot safely run before it. There are movements with whose direction
we sympathize, which are yet so ungoverned that we lose our freedom and the use of our reason
in committing ourselves to them. So the seaman who runs too long before the increasing gale
has thereafter no election; go on he must, for there is death in pausing, though it be also
death to proceed. Learn, therefore, to wait. Is there not many a one who never arrives at fruit,
for no better reason than that he persists in plucking his own blossoms? Learn to wait. Take
time, with the smith, to raise your arm, if you would deliver a telling blow.

Does it seem wasteful, this waiting? Let us, then, remind ourselves that excess and precipitation
are more than wasteful,--they are directly destructive. The fire that blazes beyond bounds
not warms the house, but burns it down, and only helps infinitesimally to warm the wide out-of-doors.
Any live snail will out-travel a wrecked locomotive, and besides will leave no trail of slaughter
on its track. Though despatch be the soul of business, yet he who outruns his own feet comes
to the ground, and makes no despatch,--unless it be of himself. Hurry is the spouse of Flurry,
and the father of Confusion. Extremes meet, and overaction steadfastly returns to the effect
of non-action,--bringing, however, the seven devils of disaster in its company. The ocean storm
which heaps the waves so high may, by a sufficient increase, blow them down again; and in no
calm is the sea so level as in the extremest hurricane.

Persistent excess of outward performance works mischief in one of two directions,--either upon
the body or on the soul. If one will not accommodate himself to this unreasonable quantity
by abatement of quality,--if he be resolute to put love, faith, and imagination into his labor,
and to be alive to the very top of his brain,--then the body enters a protest, and dyspepsia,
palsy, phthisis, insanity, or somewhat of the kind, ensues. Commonly, however, the tragedy
is different from this, and deeper. Commonly, in these cases, action loses height as it gains
lateral surface; the superior faculties starve, being robbed of sustenance by this avarice
of performance, and consequently of supply, on the part of the lower,--they sit at second table,
and eat of remainder-crumbs. The delicate and divine sprites, that should bear the behests
of the soul to the will and to the houses of thought in the brain her intuitions, are crowded
out from the streets of the cerebral cities by the mob and trample of messengers bound upon
baser errands; and thus is the soul deprived of service, and the man of inspiration. The man
becomes, accordingly, a great merchant who values a cent, but does not value a human sentiment;
or a lawyer who can convince a jury that white is black, but cannot convince himself that white
is white, God God, and the sustaining faiths of great souls more than moonshine. So if the
apple-tree will make too much wood, it can bear no fruit; during summer it is full of haughty
thrift, but the autumn, which brings grace to so many a dwarfed bush and low shrub, shows it
naked and in shame.

How many mistake the crowing of the cock for the rising of the sun, albeit the cock often crows
at midnight, or at the moon's rising, or only at the advent of a lantern and a tallow candle!
And yet what a bloated, gluttonous devourer of hopes and labors is this same precipitation!
All shores are strown with wrecks of barks that went too soon to sea. And if you launch even
your well-built ship at half-tide, what will it do but strike bottom, and stick there? The
perpetual tragedy of literary history, in especial, is this. What numbers of young men, gifted
with great imitative quickness, who, having, by virtue of this, arrived at fine words and figures
of speech, set off on their nimble rhetorical Pegasus, keep well out of the Muse's reach ever
after! How many go conspicuously through life, snapping their smart percussion-caps upon empty
barrels, because, forsooth, powder and ball do not come of themselves, and it takes time to load!

I know that there is a divine impatience, a rising of the waters of love and noble pain till
they must overflow, with or without the hope of immediate apparent use, and no matter what
swords and revenges impend. History records a few such defeats which are worth thousands of
ordinary victories. Yet the rule is, that precipitation comes of levity. Eagerness is shallow.
Haste is but half-earnest. If an apple is found to grow mellow and seemingly ripe much before
its fellows on the same bough, you will probably discover, upon close inspection, that there
is a worm in it.

To be sure, any time is too soon with those who dote upon Never. There are such as find Nature
precipitate and God forward. They would have effect limp at untraversable distances behind
cause; they would keep destiny carefully abed and feed it upon spoon-victual. They play duenna
to the universe, and are perpetually on the qui vive, lest it escape, despite their care, into
improprieties. The year is with them too fast by so much as it removes itself from the old
almanac. The reason is that they are the old almanac. Or, more distinctly, they are at odds
with universal law, and, knowing that to them it can come only as judgment and doom, they,
not daring to denounce the law itself, fall to the trick of denouncing its agents as visionaries,
and its effects as premature. The felon always finds the present an unseasonable day on which
to be hanged: the sheriff takes another view of the matter.

But the error of these consists, not in realizing good purposes too slowly and patiently, but
in failing effectually to purpose good at all. To those who truly are making it the business
of their lives to accomplish worthy aims, this counsel cannot come amiss,--TAKE TIME. Take
a year in which to thread a needle, rather than go dabbing at the texture with the naked thread.
And observe, that there is an excellence and an efficacy of slowness, no less than of quickness.
The armadillo is equally secure of his prey with the hawk or leopard; and Sir Charles Bell
mentions a class of thieves in India, who, having, through extreme patience and command of
nerve, acquired the power of motion imperceptibly slow, are the most formidable of all peculators,
and almost defy precaution. And to leave these low instances, slowness produced by profoundness
of feeling and fineness of perception constitutes that divine patience of genius without which
genius does not exist. Mind lingers where appetite hurries on; it is only the Newtons who stay
to meditate over the fall of an apple, too trivial for the attention of the clown. It is by
this noble slowness that the highest minds faintly emulate that inconceivable deliberateness
and delicacy of gradation with which solar systems are built and worlds habilitated.

Now haste and intemperance are the Satans that beset virtuous Americans. And these mischiefs
are furthered by those who should guard others against them. The Rev. Dr. John Todd, in a work,
not destitute of merit, entitled "The Student's Manual," urges those whom he addresses to study,
while about it, with their utmost might, crowding into an hour as much work as it can possibly
be made to contain; so, he says, they will increase the power of the brain. But this is advice
not fit to be given to a horse, much less to candidates for the graces of scholarly manhood.
I read that race-horses, during the intervals between their public contests, are permitted
only occasionally and rarely to be driven at their extreme speed, but are assiduously made
to walk several hours each day. By this constancy of moderate exercise they preserve health
and suppleness of limb, without exhaustion of strength. And it appears, that, were such an
animal never to be taken from the stable but to be pushed to the top of his speed, he would
be sure to make still greater speed toward ruin. Why not be as wise for men as for horses?

And here I desire to lay stress upon one point, which American students will do well to consider
gravely,--It is a PURE, not a strained and excited, attention which has signal prosperity.
Distractions, tempests, and head-winds in the brain, by-ends, the sidelong eyes of vanity,
the overleaping eyes of ambition, the bleared eyes of conceit,--these are they which thwart
study and bring it to nought. Nor these only, but all impatience, all violent eagerness, all
passionate and perturbed feeling, fill the brain with thick and hot blood, suited to the service
of desire, unfit for the uses of thought. Intellect can be served only by the finest properties
of the blood; and if there be any indocility of soul, any impurity of purpose, any coldness
or carelessness, any prurience or crude and intemperate heat, then base spirits are sent down
from the seat of the soul to summon the sanguineous forces; and these gather a crew after their
own kind. Purity of attention, then, is the magic that the scholar may use; and let him know,
that, the purer it is, the more temperate, tranquil, reposeful. Truth is not to be run down
with fox-hounds; she is a divinity, and divinely must he draw nigh who will gain her presence.
Go to, thou bluster-brain! Dost thou think to learn? Learn docility first, and the manners
of the skies. And thou egotist, thinkest thou that these eyes of thine, smoky with the fires
of diseased self-love, and thronged with deceiving wishes, shall perceive the essential and
eternal? They shall see only silver and gold, houses and lands, reputes, supremacies, fames,
and, as instrumental to these, the forms of logic and seemings of knowledge. If thou wilt discern
the truth, desire IT, not its accidents and collateral effects. Rest in the pursuit of it,
putting simplicity of quest in the place of either force or wile; and such quest cannot be
unfruitful.

Let the student, then, shun an excited and spasmodic tension of brain, and he will gain more
while expending less. It is not toil, it is morbid excitement, that kills; and morbid excitement
in constant connection with high mental endeavor is, of all modes and associations of excitement,
the most disastrous. Study as the grass grows, and your old age--and its laurels--shall be green.

Already, however, we are trenching upon that more intimate relationship of the great opposites
under consideration which has been designated Rest in Motion. More intimate relationship, I
say,--at any rate, more subtile, recondite, difficult of apprehension and exposition, and perhaps,
by reason of this, more central and suggestive. An example of this in its physical aspect may
be seen in the revolutions of the planets, and in all orbital or circular motion. For such,
it will be at once perceived, is, in strictness of speech, fixed and stationary motion: it
is, as Sir Isaac Newton demonstrated, an exact and equal obedience, in the same moment, to
the law of fixity and the law of progression. Observe especially, that it is not, like merely
retarded motion, a partial neutralization of each principle by the other, an imbecile Aristotelian
compromise and half-way house between the two; but it is at once, and in virtue of the same
fact, perfect Rest and perfect Motion. A revolving body is not hindered, but the same impulse
which begot its movement causes this perpetually to return into itself.

Now the principles that are seen to govern the material universe are but a large-lettered display
of those that rule in perfect humanity. Whatsoever makes distinguished order and admirableness
in Nature makes the same in man; and never was there a fine deed that was not begot of the
same impulse and ruled by the same laws to which solar systems are due. I desire, accordingly,
here to take up and emphasize the statement previously made in a general way,--that the secret
of perfection in all that appertains to man--in morals, manners, art, politics--must be sought
in such a correspondence and reciprocation of these great opposites as the motions of the planets
perfectly exemplify.

It must not, indeed, be overlooked or unacknowledged, that the planets do not move in exact
circles, but diverge slightly into ellipses. The fact is by no means without significance,
and that of an important kind. Pure circular motion is the type of perfection in the universe
as a whole, but each part of the whole will inevitably express its partiality, will acknowledge
its special character, and upon the frankness of this confession its comeliness will in no
small degree depend; nevertheless, no sooner does the eccentricity, or individuality, become
so great as to suggest disloyalty to the idea of the whole, than ugliness ensues. Thus, comets
are portents, shaking the faith of nations, not supporting it, like the stars. So among men.
Nature is at pains to secure divergence, magnetic variation, putting into every personality
and every powerful action some element of irregularity and imperfection; and her reason for
doing so is, that irregularity appertains to the state of growth, and is the avenue of access
to higher planes and broader sympathies; still, as the planets, though not moving in perfect
circles, yet come faithfully round to the same places, and accomplish the ends of circular
motion, so in man, the divergence must be special, not total, no act being the mere arc of
a circle, and yet revolution being maintained. And to the beauty of characters and deeds, it
is requisite that they should never seem even to imperil fealty to the universal idea. Revolution
perfectly exact expresses only necessity, not voluntary fidelity; but departure, still deferential
to the law of the whole, in evincing freedom elevates its obedience into fealty and noble faithfulness:
by this measure of eccentricity, centricity is not only emphasized, but immeasurably exalted.

But having made this full and willing concession to the element of individuality in persons
and of special character in actions, we are at liberty to resume the general thesis,--that
orbital rest of movement furnishes the type of perfect excellence, and suggests accordingly
the proper targe of aspiration and culture.

In applying this law, we will take first a low instance, wherein the opposite principles stand
apart, rather upon terms of outward covenant, or of mere mixture, than of mutual assimilation.
Man is infinite; men are finite: the purest aspect of great laws never appears in collections
and aggregations, yet the same laws rule here as in the soul, and such excellence as is possible
issues from the same sources. As an instance, accordingly, of that ruder reciprocation which
may obtain among multitudes, I name the Roman Legion.

It is said that the success of the armies of Rome is not fully accounted for, until one takes
into account the constitution of this military body. It united, in an incomparable degree,
the different advantages of fixity and fluency. Moderate in size, yet large enough to give
the effect of mass, open in texture, yet compact in form, it afforded to every man room for
individual prowess, while it left no man to his individual strength. Each soldier leaned and
rested upon the Legion, a body of six thousand men; yet around each was a space in which his
movements might be almost as free, rapid, and individual as though he had possessed the entire
field to himself. The Macedonian Phalanx was a marvel of mass, but it was mass not penetrated
with mobility; it could move, indeed could be said to have an existence, only as a whole; its
decomposed parts were but débris. The Phalanx, therefore, was terrible, the constituent parts
of it imbecile; and the Battle of Cynocephalae finally demonstrated its inferiority, for the
various possible exigencies of battle, to the conquering Legion. The brave rabble of Gauls
and Goths, on the other hand, illustrated all that private valor, not reposing upon any vaster
and more stable strength, has power to achieve; but these rushing torrents of prowess dashed
themselves into vain spray upon the coordinated and reposing courage of Rome.

The same perpetual opposites must concur to produce the proper form and uses of the State,--though
they here appear in a much more elevated form. Rest is here known as Law, motion as Liberty.
In the true commonwealth, these, so far from being mutually destructive or antagonistic, incessantly
beget and vivify each other; so that Law is the expression and guaranty of Freedom, while Freedom
flows spontaneously into the forms of Justice. Neither of these can exist, neither can be properly
conceived of, apart from its correlative opposite. Nor will any condition of mere truce, or
of mere mechanical equilibrium, suffice. Nothing suffices but a reciprocation so active and
total that each is constantly resolving itself into the other.

The notion of Rousseau, which is countenanced by much of the phraseology, to say the least,
of the present day, was, indeed, quite contrary to this. He assumed freedom to exist only where
law is not, that is, in the savage state, and to be surrendered, piece for piece, with every
acknowledgment of social obligation. Seldom was ever so plausible a doctrine equally false.
Law is properly the public definition of freedom and the affirmation of its sacredness and
inviolability as so defined; and only in the presence of it, either express or implicit, does
man become free. Duty and privilege are one and the same, however men may set up a false antagonism
between them; and accordingly social obligation can subtract nothing from the privilege and
prerogative of liberty. Consequently, the freedom which is defined as the negation of social
duty and obligation is not true regal freedom, but is that worst and basest of all tyrannies,
the tyranny of pure egotism, masked in the semblance of its divine contrary. That, be it observed,
is the freest society, in which the noblest and most delicate human powers find room and secure
respect,--wherein the loftiest and costliest spiritualities are most invited abroad by sympathetic
attraction. Now among savages little obtains appreciation, save physical force and its immediate
allies: the divine fledglings of the human soul, instead of being sweetly drawn and tempted
forth, are savagely menaced, rudely repelled; whatsoever is finest in the man, together with
the entire nature of woman, lies, in that low temperature, enchained and repressed, like seeds
in a frozen soil. The harsh, perpetual contest with want and lawless rivalry, to which all
uncivilized nations are doomed, permits only a few low powers, and those much the same in all,--lichens,
mosses, rude grasses, and other coarse cryptogamous growths,--to develop themselves; since
these alone can endure the severities of season and treatment to which all that would clothe
the fields of the soul must remain exposed. Meanwhile the utmost of that wicked and calamitous
suppression of faculty, which constitutes the essence and makes the tragedy of human slavery,
is equally effected by the inevitable isolation and wakeful trampling and consequent barrenness
of savage life. Liberty without law is not liberty; and the converse may be asserted with like
confidence.

Where, then, the fixed term, State, or Law, and the progressive term, Person, or Freewill,
are in relations of reciprocal support and mutual reproduction, there alone is freedom, there
alone public order. We were able to command this truth from the height of our general proposition,
and closer inspection shows those anticipations to have been correct.

But man is greater than men; and for the finest aspect of high laws, we must look to individual
souls, not to masses.

What is the secret of noble manners? Orbital action, always returning into and compensating
itself. The gentleman, in offering his respect to others, offers an equal, or rather the same,
respect to himself; and his courtesies may flow without stint or jealous reckoning, because
they feed their source, being not an expenditure, but a circulation. Submitting to the inward
law of honor and the free sense of what befits a man,--to a law perpetually made and spontaneously
executed in his own bosom, the instant flowering of his own soul,--he commands his own obedience,
and he obeys his own commanding. Though throned above all nations, a king of kings, yet the
faithful humble vassal of his own heart; though he serve, yet regal, doing imperial service;
he escapes outward constraint by inward anticipation; and all that could he rightly named as
his duty to others, he has, ere demand, already discovered, and engaged in, as part of his
duty to himself. Now it is the expression of royal freedom in loyal service, of sovereignty
in obedience, courage in concession, and strength in forbearance, which makes manners noble.
Low may he bow, not with loss, but with access of dignity, who bows with an elevated and ascending
heart: there is nothing loftier, nothing less allied to abject behavior, than this grand lowliness.
The worm, because it is low, cannot be lowly; but man, uplifted in token of supremacy, may
kneel in adoration, bend in courtesy, and stoop in condescension. Only a great pride, that
is, a great and reverential repose in one's own being, renders possible a noble humility, which
is a great and reverential acknowledgment of the being of others; this humility in turn sustains
a higher self-reverence; this again resolves itself into a more majestic humility; and so run,
in ever enhancing wave, the great circles of inward honor and outward grace. And without this
self-sustaining return of the action into itself, each quality feeding itself from its correlative
opposite, there can be no high behavior. This is the reason why qualities loftiest in kind
and largest in measure are vulgarly mistaken, not for their friendly opposites, but for their
mere contraries,--why a very profound sensibility, a sensibility, too, peculiarly of the spirit,
not of nerve only, is sure to be named coldness, as Mr. Ruskin recently remarks,--why vast
wealth of good pride, in its often meek acceptance of wrong, in its quiet ignoring of insult,
in its silent superiority to provocation, passes with the superficial and petulant for poverty
of pride and mere mean-spiritedness,--why a courage which is not partial, but total, coexisting,
as it always does, with a noble peacefulness, with a noble inaptness for frivolous hazards,
and a noble slowness to take offence, is, in its delays and forbearances, thought by the half-courageous
to be no better than cowardice;--it is, as we have said, because great qualities revolve and
repose in orbits of reciprocation with their opposites, which opposites are by coarse and ungentle
eyes misdeemed to be contraries. Feeling transcendently deep and powerful is unimpassioned
and far lower-voiced than indifference and unfeelingness, being wont to express itself, not
by eloquent ebullition, but by extreme understatement, or even by total silence. Sir Walter
Raleigh, when at length he found himself betrayed to death--and how basely betrayed!--by Sir
Lewis Stukely, only said, "Sir Lewis, these actions will not turn to your credit." The New
Testament tells us of a betrayal yet more quietly received. These are instances of noble manners.

What actions are absolutely moral is determined by application of the same law,--those only
which repose wholly in themselves, being to themselves at once motive and reward. "Miserable
is he," says the "Bhagavad Gita," "whose motive to action lies, not in the action itself, but
in its reward." Duty purchased with covenant of special delights is not duty, but is the most
pointed possible denial of it. The just man looks not beyond justice; the merciful reposes
in acts of mercy; and he who would be bribed to equity and goodness is not only bad, but shameless.
But of this no further words.

Rest is sacred, celestial, and the appreciation of it and longing for it are mingled with the
religious sentiment of all nations. I cannot remember the time when there was not to me a certain
ineffable suggestion in the apostolic words, "There remaineth, therefore, a rest for the people
of God." But the repose of the godlike must, as that of God himself, be infinitely removed
from mere sluggish inactivity; since the conception of action is the conception of existence
itself,--that is, of Being in the act of self-manifestation. Celestial rest is found in action
so universal, so purely identical with the great circulations of Nature, that, like the circulation
of the blood and the act of breathing, it is not a subtraction from vital resource, but is,
on the contrary, part of the very fact of life and all its felicities. This does not exclude
rhythmic or recreative rest; but the need of such rest detracts nothing from pleasure or perfection.
In heaven also, if such figure of speech be allowable, may be that toil which shall render
grateful the cessation from toil, and give sweetness to sleep; but right weariness has its
own peculiar delight, no less than right exercise; and as the glories of sunset equal those
of dawn, so with equal, though diverse pleasure, should noble and temperate labor take off
its sandals for evening repose, and put them on to go forth "beneath the opening eyelids of
the morn." Yet, allowing a place for this rhythm in the detail and close inspection even of
heavenly life, it still holds true on the broad scale, that pure beauty and beatitude are found
there only where life and character sweep in orbits of that complete expression which is at
once divine labor and divine repose.

Observe, now, that this rest-motion, as being without waste or loss, is a manifested immortality,
since that which wastes not ends not; and therefore it puts into every motion the very character
and suggestion of immortal life. Yea, one deed rightly done, and the doer is in heaven, --is
of the company of immortals. One deed so done that in it is no mortality; and in that deed
the meaning of man's history,--the meaning, indeed, and the glory, of existence itself,--are
declared. Easy, therefore, it is to see how any action may be invested with universal significance
and the utmost conceivable charm. The smaller the realm and the humbler the act into which
this amplitude and universality of spirit are carried, the more are they emphasized and set
off; so that, without opportunity of unusual occasion, or singular opulence of natural power,
a man's life may possess all that majesty which the imagination pictures in archangels and
in gods. Indeed, it is but simple statement of fact to say, that he who rests utterly in his
action shall belittle not only whatsoever history has recorded, but all which that poet of
poets, Mankind, has ever dreamed or fabled of grace and greatness. He shall not peer about
with curiosity to spy approbation, or with zeal to defy censure; he shall not know if there
be a spectator in the world; his most public deed shall be done in a divine privacy, on which
no eye intrudes,--his most private in the boundless publicities of Nature; his deed, when done,
falls away from him, like autumn apples from their boughs, no longer his, but the world's and
destiny's; neither the captive of yesterday nor the propitiator of to-morrow, he abides simply,
majestically, like a god, in being and doing. Meanwhile, blame and praise whirl but as unrecognized
cloudlets of gloom or glitter beneath his feet, enveloping and often blinding those who utter
them, but to him never attaining.

It is not easy at present to suggest the real measure and significance of such manhood, because
this age has debased its imagination, by the double trick, first, of confounding man with his
body, and next, of considering the body, not as a symbol of truth, but only as an agent in
the domain of matter,--comparing its size with the sum total of physical space, and its muscular
power with the sum total of physical forces. Yet

  "What know we greater than the soul?"

A man is no outlying province, nor does any province lie beyond him. East, West, North, South,
and height and depth are contained in his bosom, the poles of his being reaching more widely,
his zenith and nadir being more sublime and more profound. We are cheated by nearness and intimacy.
Let us look at man with a telescope, and we shall find no star or constellation of sweep so
grand, no nebulae or star-dust so provoking and suggestive to fancy. In truth, there are no
words to say how either large or small, how significant or insignificant, men may be. Though
solar and stellar systems amaze by their grandeur of scale, yet is true manhood the maximum
of Nature; though microscopic and sub-microscopic protophyta amaze by their inconceivable littleness,
yet is mock manhood Nature's minimum. The latter is the only negative quantity known to Nature;
the former the only revelation of her entire heart.

In concluding, need I say that only the pure can repose in his action,--only he obtain deliverance
by his deed, and after deliverance from it? The egotism, the baseness, the partialities that
are in our performance are hooks and barbs by which it wounds and wearies us in the passage,
and clings to us being past.

Law governs all; no favor is shown; the event is as it must be; only he who has no blinding
partiality toward himself, who is whole and one with the whole, he who is Nature and Law and
divine Necessity, can be blest with that blessedness which Nature is able to give only by her
presence. There is a labor and a rest that are the same, one fact, one felicity; in this are
power, beauty, immortality; by existence as a whole it is always perfectly exemplified; to
man, as the eye of existence, it is also possible; but it is possible to him only as he is
purely man,--only as he abandons himself to the divine principles of his life: in other words,
this Sabbath remaineth in very deed to no other than the people of God.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIGHTS OF THE ENGLISH LAKE DISTRICT.

At the opening of the present century, the Lake District of Cumberland and Westmoreland was
groaned over by some residents as fast losing its simplicity. The poet Gray had been the first
to describe its natural features in an express manner; and his account of the views above Keswick
and Grasmere was quoted, sixty years since, as evidence of the spoiling process which had gone
on since the introduction of civilization from the South. Gray remarked on the absence of red
roofs, gentlemen's houses, and garden-walls, and on the uniform character of the humble farmsteads
and gray cottages under their sycamores in the vales. Wordsworth heard and spoke a good deal
of the innovations which had modified the scene in the course of the thirty years which elapsed
between Gray's visits (in 1767-69) and his own settlement in the Lake District; but he lived
to say more, at the end of half a century, of the wider and deeper changes which time had wrought
in the aspect of the country and the minds and manners of the people. According to his testimony,
and that of Southey, the barbarism was of a somewhat gross character at the end of the last
century; the magistrates were careless of the condition of the society in which they bore authority;
the clergy were idle or worse,--"marrying and burying machines," as Southey told Wilberforce;
and the morality of the people, such as it was, was ascribed by Wordsworth, in those his days
of liberalism in politics, to the state of republican equality in which they lived. Excellent,
fussy Mr. Wilberforce thought, when he came for some weeks into the District, that the Devil
had had quite time enough for sowing tares while the clergy were asleep; so he set to work
to sow a better seed; and we find in his diary that he went into house after house "to talk
religion to the people." I do not know how he was received; but at this day the people are
puzzled at that kind of domestic intervention, so unsuitable to their old-fashioned manners,--one
old dame telling with wonder, some little time since, that a young lady had called and sung
a hymn to her, but had given her nothing at the end for listening. The rough independence of
the popular manners even now offends persons of a conventional habit of mind; and when poets
and philosophers first came from southern parts to live here, the democratic tone of feeling
and behavior was more striking than it is now or will ever be again.

Before the Lake poets began to give the public an interest in the District, some glimpses of
it were opened by the well-known literary ladies of the last century who grouped themselves
round their young favorite, Elizabeth Smith. I do not know whether her name and fame have reached
America; but in my young days she was the English school-girls' subject of admiration and emulation.
She had marvellous powers of acquisition, and she translated the Book of Job, and a good deal
from the German,--introducing Klopstock to us at a time when we hardly knew the most conspicuous
names in German literature. Elizabeth Smith was an accomplished girl in all ways. There is
a damp, musty-looking house, with small windows and low ceilings, at Coniston, where she lived
with her parents and sister, for some years before her death. We know, from Mrs. Elizabeth
Hamilton's and the Bowdlers' letters, how Elizabeth and her sister lived in the beauty about
them, rambling, sketching, and rowing their guests on the lake. In one of her rambles, Elizabeth
sat too long under a heavy dew. She felt a sharp pain in her chest, which never left her, and
died in rapid decline. Towards the last she was carried out daily from the close and narrow
rooms at home, and laid in a tent pitched in a field just across the road, whence she could
overlook the lake, and the range of mountains about its head. On that spot now stands Tent
Lodge, the residence of Tennyson and his bride after their marriage. One of my neighbors, who
first saw the Lake District in early childhood, has a solemn remembrance of the first impression.
The tolling of the bell of Hawkeshead church was heard from afar; and it was tolling for the
funeral of Elizabeth Smith. Her portrait is before me now,--the ingenuous, child-like face,
with the large dark eyes which alone show that it is not the portrait of a child. It was through
her that a large proportion of the last generation of readers first had any definite associations
with Coniston.

Wordsworth had, however, been in that church many a time, above twenty years before, when at
Hawkeshead school. He used to tell that his mother had praised him for going into the church,
one week-day, to see a woman do penance in a white sheet. She considered it good for his morals.
But when he declared himself disappointed that nobody had given him a penny for his attendance,
as he had somehow expected, his mother told him he was served right for going to church from
such an inducement. He spoke with gratitude of an usher at that school, who put him in the
way of learning the Latin, which had been a sore trouble at his native Cockermouth, from unskilful
teaching. Our interest in him at that school, however, is from his having there first conceived
the idea of writing verse. His master set the boys, as a task, to write a poetical theme,--"The
Summer Vacation"; and Master William chose to add to it "The Return to School." He was then
fourteen; and he was to be double that age before he returned to the District and took up his
abode there.

He had meantime gone through his college course, as described in his Memoirs, and undergone
strange conditions of opinion and feeling in Paris during the Revolution; had lived in Dorsetshire,
with his faithful sister; had there first seen Coleridge, and had been so impressed by the
mind and discourse of that wonderful young philosopher as to remove to Somersetshire to be
near him; had seen Klopstock in Germany, and lived there for a time; and had passed through
other changes of residence and places, when we find him again among the Lakes in 1779, still
with his sister by his side, and their brother John, and Coleridge, who had never been in the
District before.

As they stood on the margin of Grasmere, the scene was more like what Gray saw than what is
seen at this day. The churchyard was bare of the yews which now distinguish it,--for Sir George
Beaumont had them planted at a later time; and where the group of kindred and friends--the
Wordsworths and their relatives--now lie, the turf was level and untouched. The iron rails
and indefensible monuments, which Wordsworth so reprobated half a century later, did not exist.
The villas which stud the slopes, the great inns which bring a great public, were uncreated;
and there was only the old Roman road where the Wishing-Gate is, or the short cut by the quarries
to arrive by from the South, instead of the fine mail-road which now winds between the hills
and the margin of the lake. John Wordsworth guided his brother and Coleridge through Grisedale,
over a spur of Helvellyn, to see Ullswater; and Coleridge has left a characteristic testimony
of the effect of the scenery upon him. It was "a day when light and darkness coexisted in contiguous
masses, and the earth and sky were but one. Nature lived for us in all her wildest accidents."
He tells how his eyes were dim with tears, and how imagination and reality blended their objects
and impressions. Wordsworth's account of the same excursion is in as admirable contrast with
Coleridge's as their whole mode of life and expression was, from first to last. With the carelessness
of the popular mind in such cases, the British public had already almost confounded the two
men and their works, as it soon after mixed up Southey with both; whereas they were all as
unlike each other as any three poets could well be.

Coleridge and Wordsworth were both contemplative, it is true, while Southey was not: but the
remarkable thing about Coleridge was the exclusiveness of his contemplative tendencies, by
which one set of faculties ran riot in his mind and life, making havoc among his powers, and
a dismal wreck of his existence. The charm and marvel of his discourse upset all judgments
during his life, and for as long as his voice remained in the ear of his enchanted hearers;
but, apart from the spell, it is clear to all sober and trained thinkers that Coleridge wandered
away from truth and reality in the midst of his vaticinations, as the clairvoyant does in the
midst of his previsions, so as to mislead and bewilder, while inspiring and intoxicating the
hearer or reader. He recorded, in regard to himself, that "history and particular facts lost
all interest" in his mind after his first launch into metaphysics; and he remained through
life incapable of discerning reality from inborn images. Wordsworth took alarm at the first
experience of such a tendency in himself, and relates that he used to catch at the trees and
palings by the roadside to satisfy himself of existences out of himself; but Coleridge encouraged
this subjective exclusiveness, to the destruction of the balance of his mind and the morale
of his nature. He was himself a wild poem; and he discoursed wild poems to us,--musical romances
from Dreamland; but the luxury to himself and us was bought by injury to others which was altogether
irreparable, and pardonable only on the ground that the balance of his mind was destroyed by
a fatal intellectual, in addition to physical intemperance. In him we see an extreme case of
a life of contemplation uncontrolled by will and unchecked by action. His faculty of will perished,
and his prerogative of action died out. His contemplations must necessarily be worth just so
much the less to us as his mental structure was deformed,--extravagantly developed in one direction,
and dwarfed in another.

The singularity in Wordsworth's case, on the other hand, is that his contemplative tendencies
not only coexisted with, but were implicated with, the most precise and vivid apprehension
of small realities. There was no proportion in his mind; and vaticination and twaddle rolled
off his eloquent tongue as chance would have it. At one time he would discourse like a seer,
on the slightest instigation, by the hour together; and next, he would hold forth with equal
solemnity, on the pettiest matter of domestic economy. I have known him take up some casual
notice of a "beck" (brook) in the neighborhood, and discourse of brooks for two hours, till
his hearers felt as if they were by the rivers of waters in heaven; and next, he would talk
on and on, till stopped by some accident, on his doubt whether Mrs. Wordsworth gave a penny
apiece or a half-penny apiece for trapped mice to a little girl who had undertaken to clear
the house of them. It has been common to regret that he held the office of Stamp-Distributor
in the District; but it was probably a great benefit to his mind as well as his fortunes. It
was something that it gave him security and ease as to the maintenance of his family; but that
is less important than its necessitating a certain amount of absence from home, and intercourse
with men on business. He was no reader in mature life; and the concentration of his mind on
his own views, and his own genius, and the interests of his home and neighborhood, caused some
foibles, as it was; and it might have been almost fatal, but for some office which allowed
him to gratify his love of out-door life at the same time that it led him into intercourse
with men in another capacity than as listeners to himself, or peasants engrossed in their own
small concerns.

Southey was not contemplative or speculative, and it could only have been because he lived
at the Lakes and was Coleridge's brother-in-law that he was implicated with the two speculative
poets at all. It has been carelessly reported by Lake tourists that Southey was not beloved
among his neighbors, while Wordsworth was; and that therefore the latter was the better man,
in a social sense. It should be remembered that Southey was a working man, and that the other
two were not; and, moreover, it should never be for a moment forgotten that Southey worked
double-tides to make up for Coleridge's idleness. While Coleridge was dreaming and discoursing,
Southey was toiling to maintain Coleridge's wife and children. He had no time and no attention
to spare for wandering about and making himself at home with the neighbors. This practice came
naturally to Wordsworth; and a kind and valued neighbor he was to all the peasants round. Many
a time I have seen him in the road, in Scotch bonnet and green spectacles, with a dozen children
at his heels and holding his cloak, while he cut ash-sticks for them from the hedge, hearing
all they had to say or talking to them. Southey, on the other hand, took his constitutional
walk at a fixed hour, often reading as he went. Two families depended on him; and his duty
of daily labor was not only distinctive, but exclusive. He was always at work at home, while
Coleridge was doing nothing but talking, and Wordsworth was abroad, without thinking whether
he was at work or play. Seen from the stand-point of conscience and of moral generosity, Southey's
was the noblest life of the three; and Coleridge's was, of course, nought. I own, however,
that, considering the tendency of the time to make literature a trade, or at least a profession,
I cannot help feeling Wordsworth's to have been the most privileged life of them all. He had
not work enough to do; and his mode of life encouraged an excess of egoism: but he bore all
the necessary retribution of this in his latter years; and the whole career leaves an impression
of an airy freedom and a natural course of contemplation, combined with social interest and
action, more healthy than the existence of either the delinquent or the exemplary comrade with
whom he was associated in the public view.

I have left my neighbors waiting long on the margin of Grasmere. That was before I was born;
but I could almost fancy I had seen them there.

I observed that Wordsworth's report of their trip was very unlike Coleridge's. When his sister
had left them, he wrote to her, describing scenes by brief precise touches which draw the picture
that Coleridge blurs with grand phrases. Moreover, Wordsworth tells sister Dorothy that John
will give him forty pounds to buy a bit of land by the lake, where they may build a cottage
to live in henceforth. He says, also, that there is a small house vacant near the spot.--They
took that house; and thus the Wordsworths became "Lakers." They entered that well-known cottage
at Grasmere on the shortest day (St. Thomas's) of 1799. Many years afterwards, Dorothy wrote
of the aspect of Grasmere on her arrival that winter evening,--the pale orange lights on the
lake, and the reflection of the mountains and the island in the still waters. She had wandered
about the world in an unsettled way; and now she had cast anchor for life,--not in that house,
but within view of that valley.

All readers of Wordsworth, on either side the Atlantic, believe that they know that cottage,
(described in the fifth book of the "Excursion,") with its little orchard, and the moss house,
and the tiny terrace behind, with its fine view of the lake and the basin of mountains. There
the brother and sister lived for some years in a very humble way, making their feast of the
beauty about them. Wordsworth was fond of telling how they had meat only two or three times
a week; and he was eager to impress on new-comers--on me among others--the prudence of warning
visitors that they must make up their minds to the scantiest fare. He was as emphatic about
this, laying his finger on one's arm to enforce it, as about catching mice or educating the
people. It was vain to say that one would rather not invite guests than fail to provide for
them; he insisted that the expense would be awful, and assumed that his sister's and his own
example settled the matter. I suppose they were poor in those days; but it was not for long.
A devoted sister Dorothy was. Too late it appeared that she had sacrificed herself to aid and
indulge her brother. When her mind was gone, and she was dying by inches, Mrs. Wordsworth offered
me the serious warning that she gave whenever occasion allowed, against overwalking. She told
me that Dorothy had, not occasionally only, but often, walked forty miles in a day to give
her brother her presence. To repair the ravages thus caused she took opium; and the effect
on her exhausted frame was to overthrow her mind. This was when she was elderly. For a long
course of years, she was a rich household blessing to all connected with her. She shared her
brother's peculiarity of investing trifles with solemnity, or rather, of treating all occasions
alike (at least in writing) with pedantic elaboration; but she had the true poet's, combined
with the true woman's nature; and the fortunate man had, in wife and sister, the two best friends
of his life.

The Wordsworths were the originals of the Lake coterie, as we have seen. Born at Cockermouth,
and a pupil at the Hawkeshead school, Wordsworth was looking homewards when he settled in the
District. The others came in consequence. Coleridge brought his family to Greta Hall, near
Keswick; and with them came Mrs. Lovell, one of the three Misses Fricker, of whom Coleridge
and Southey had married two. Southey was invited to visit Greta Hall, the year after the Wordsworths
settled at Grasmere; and thus they became acquainted. They had just met before, in the South;
but they had yet to learn to know each other; and there was sufficient unlikeness between them
to render this a work of some time and pains. It was not long before Southey, instead of Coleridge,
was the lessee of Greta Hall; and soon after Coleridge took his departure, leaving his wife
and children, and also the Lovells, a charge upon Southey, who had no more fortune than Coleridge,
except in the inexhaustible wealth of a heart, a will, and a conscience. Wordsworth married
in 1802; and then the two poets passed through their share of the experience of human life,
a few miles apart, meeting occasionally on some mountain ridge or hidden dale, and in one another's
houses, drawn closer by their common joys and sorrows, but never approximating in the quality
of their genius, or in the stand-points from which they respectively looked out upon human
affairs. They had children, loved them, and each lost some of them; and they felt tenderly
for each other when each little grave was opened. Southey, the most amiable of men in domestic
life, gentle, generous, serene, and playful, grew absolutely ferocious about politics, as his
articles in the "Quarterly Review" showed all the world. Wordsworth, who had some of the irritability
and pettishness, mildly described by himself as "gentle stirrings of the mind," which occasionally
render great men ludicrously like children, and who was, moreover, highly conservative after
his early democratic fever had passed off, grew more and more liberal with advancing years.
I do not mean that he verged towards the Reformers,--but that he became more enlarged, tolerant,
and generally sympathetic in his political views and temper. It thus happened that society
at a distance took up a wholly wrong impression of the two men,--supposing Southey to be an
ill-conditioned bigot, and Wordsworth a serene philosopher, far above being disturbed by troubles
in daily life, or paying any attention to party-politics. He showed some of his ever-growing
liberality, by the way, in speaking of this matter of temper. In old age, he said that the
world certainly does get on in minor morals: that when he was young "everybody had a temper";
whereas now no such thing is allowed; amiability is the rule; and an imperfect temper is an
offence and a misfortune of a distinctive character.

Among the letters which now and then arrived from strangers, in the early days of Wordsworth's
fame, was one which might have come from Coleridge, if they had never met. It was full of admiration
and sympathy, expressed as such feelings would be by a man whose analytical and speculative
faculties predominated over all the rest. The writer was, indeed, in those days, marvellously
like Coleridge,--subtile in analysis to excess, of gorgeous imagination, bewitching discourse,
fine scholarship, with a magnificent power of promising and utter incapacity in performing,
and with the same habit of intemperance in opium. By his own account, his "disease was to meditate
too much and observe too little." I need hardly explain that this was De Quincey; and when
I have said that, I need hardly explain further that advancing time and closer acquaintance
made the likeness to Coleridge bear a smaller and smaller proportion to the whole character
of the man.

In return for his letter of admiration and sympathy, he received an invitation to the Grasmere
valley. More than once he set forth to avail himself of it; but when within a few miles, the
shyness under which in those days he suffered overpowered his purpose, and he turned back.
After having achieved the meeting, however, he soon announced his intention of settling in
the valley; and he did so, putting his wife and children eventually into the cottage which
the Wordsworths had now outgrown and left. There was little in him to interest or attach a
family of regular domestic habits, like the Wordsworths, given to active employment, sensible
thrift, and neighborly sympathy. It was universally known that a great poem of Wordsworth's
was reserved for posthumous publication, and kept under lock and key meantime. De Quincey had
so remarkable a memory that he carried off by means of it the finest passage of the poem,--or
that which the author considered so; and he published that passage in a magazine article, in
which he gave a detailed account of the Wordsworths' household, connections, and friends, with
an analysis of their characters and an exhibition of their faults. This was in 1838, a dozen
years before the poet's death. The point of interest is,--How did the wronged family endure
the wrong? They were quiet about it,--that is, sensible and dignified; but Wordsworth was more.
A friend of his and mine was talking with him over the fire, just when De Quincey's disclosures
were making the most noise, and mentioned the subject. Wordsworth begged to be spared hearing
anything about them, saying that the man had long passed away from the family life and mind,
and he did not wish to disturb himself about what could not be remedied. My friend acquiesced,
saying, "Well, I will tell you only one thing that he says, and then we will talk of something
else. He says your wife is too good for you." There he is right!"

It was by his written disclosures only that De Quincey could do much mischief; for it was scarcely
possible to be prejudiced by anything he could say. The whole man was grotesque; and it must
have been a singular image that his neighbors in the valley preserved in their memory. A frail-looking,
diminutive man, with narrow chest and round shoulders and features like those of a dying patient,
walking with his hands behind him, his hat on the back of his head, and his broad lower lip
projected, as if he had something on his tongue that wanted listening to,--such was his aspect;
and if one joined company with him, the strangeness grew from moment to moment. His voice and
its modulations were a perfect treat. As for what he had to say, it was everything from odd
comment on a passing trifle, eloquent enunciation of some truth, or pregnant remark on some
lofty subject, down to petty gossip, so delivered as to authorize a doubt whether it might
not possibly be an awkward effort at observing something outside of himself, or at getting
a grasp of something that he supposed actual. That he should have so supposed was his weakness,
and the retribution for the peculiar intemperance which depraved his nature and alienated from
their proper use powers which should have made him one of the first philosophers of his age.
His singular organization was fatally deranged in its action before it could show its best
quality, and his is one of the cases in which we cannot be wrong in attributing moral disease
directly to physical disturbance; and it would no doubt have been dropped out of notice, if
he had been able to abstain from comment on the characters and lives of other people. Justice
to them compels us to accept and use the exposures he offers us of himself.

About the time of De Quincey's settlement at Grasmere, Wilson, the future CHRISTOPHER NORTH,
bought the Elleray estate, on the banks of Windermere. He was then just of age,--supreme in
all manly sports, physically a model man, and intellectually, brimming with philosophy and
poetry. He came hither a rather spoiled child of fortune, perhaps; but he was soon sobered
by a loss of property which sent him to his studies for the bar. Scott was an excellent friend
to him at that time; and so strong and prophetic was Wilson's admiration of his patron, that
he publicly gave him the name of "The Great Magician" before the first "Waverley Novel" was
published. Within ten years from his getting a foothold on Windermere banks, he had raised
periodical literature to a height unknown before in our time, by his contributions to "Blackwood's
Magazine"; and he seemed to step naturally into the Moral Philosophy Chair in Edinburgh in
1820. Christopher North has perhaps conveyed to foreign, and untravelled English, readers as
true a conception of our Lake scenery and its influences in one way as Wordsworth in another.
The very spirit of the moorland, lake, brook, tarn, ghyll, and ridge breathes from his prose
poetry: and well it might. He wandered alone for a week together beside the trout-streams and
among the highest tarns. He spent whole days in his boat, coasting the bays of the lake, or
floating in the centre, or lying reading in the shade of the trees on the islands. He led with
a glorious pride the famous regatta on Windermere, when Canning was the guest of the Boltons
at Storrs, and when Scott, Wordsworth, and Southey were of the company; and he liked almost
as well steering the packet-boat from Waterhead to Bowness, till the steamer drove out the
old-fashioned conveyance. He sat at the stern, immovable, with his hand on the rudder, looking
beyond the company of journeymen-carpenters, fish- and butter-women, and tourists, with a gaze
on the water-and-sky-line which never shifted. Sometimes a learned professor or a brother sportsman
was with him; but he spoke no word, and kept his mouth peremptorily shut under his beard. It
was a sight worth taking the voyage for; and it was worth going a long round to see him standing
on the shore,--"reminding one of the first man, Adam," (as was said of him,) in his best estate,--the
tall, broad frame, large head, marked features, and long hair; and the tread which shook the
ground, and the voice which roused the echoes afar and made one's heart-strings vibrate within.
These attributes made strangers turn to look at him on the road, and fixed all eyes on him
in the ball-room at Ambleside, when any local object induced him to be a steward. Every old
boatman and young angler, every hoary shepherd and primitive housewife in the uplands and dales,
had an enthusiasm for him. He could enter into the solemnity of speculation with Wordsworth
while floating at sunset on the lake; and not the less gamesomely could he collect a set of
good fellows under the lamp at his supper-table, and take off Wordsworth's or Coleridge's monologues
to the life. There was that between them which must always have precluded a close sympathy;
and their faults were just what each could least allow for in another. Of Wilson's it is enough
to say that Scott's injunction to him to "leave off sack, purge, and live cleanly," if he wished
for the Moral Philosophy Chair, was precisely what was needed. It was still needed some time
after, when, though a Professor of Moral Philosophy, he was seen, with poor Campbell, leaving
a tavern one morning, in Edinburgh, haggard and red-eyed, hoarse and exhausted,--not only the
feeble Campbell, but the mighty Wilson,--they having sat together twenty-four hours, discussing
poetry and wine with all their united energies. This sort of thing was not to the taste of
Wordsworth or Southey, any more than their special complacencies were venerable to the humor
of Christopher North. Yet they could cordially admire one another; and when sorrows came over
them, in dreary impartiality, they could feel reverently and deeply for each other. When Southey
lost his idolized boy, Herbert, and had to watch over his insane wife, always his dearest friend,
and all the dearer for her helpless and patient suffering under an impenetrable gloom,--when
Wordsworth was bereaved of the daughter who made the brightness of his life in his old age,--and
when Wilson was shaken to the centre by the loss of his wife, and mourned alone in the damp
shades of Elleray, where he would allow not a twig to be cut from the trees she loved,--the
sorrow of each moved them all. Elleray was a gloomy place then, and Wilson never surmounted
the melancholy which beset him there; and he wisely parted with it some years before his death.
The later depression in his case was in proportion to the earlier exhilaration. His love of
Nature and of genial human intercourse had been too exuberant; and he became incapable of enjoyment
from either, in his last years. He never recovered from an attack of pressure on the brain,
and died paralyzed in the spring of 1854. He had before gone from among us with his joy; and
then we heard that he had dropped out of life with his griefs; and our beautiful region, and
the region of life, were so much the darker in a thousand eyes.

While speaking of Elleray, we should pay a passing tribute of gratitude to an older worthy
of that neighborhood,--the well-known Bishop of Llandaff, Richard Watson, who did more for
the beauty of Windermere than any other person. There is nothing to praise in the damp old
mansion at Calgarth, set down in low ground, and actually with its back to the lake, and its
front windows commanding no view; but the woods are the glory of Bishop Watson. He was not
a happy prelate, believing himself undervalued and neglected, and fretting his heart over his
want of promotion; but be must have had many a blessed hour while planting those woods for
which many generations will be grateful to him. Let the traveller remember him, when looking
abroad from Miller Brow, near Bowness. Below lies the whole length of Windermere, from the
white houses of Clappersgate, nestling under Loughrigg at the head, to the Beacon at the foot.
The whole range of both shores, with their bays and coves and promontories, can be traced;
and the green islands are clustered in the centre; and the whole gradation of edifices is seen,
from Wray Castle, on its rising ground, to the tiny boat-houses, each on its creek. All these
features are enhanced in beauty by the Calgarth woods, which cover the undulations of hill
and margin beneath and around, rising and falling, spreading and contracting, with green meadows
interposed, down to the white pebbly strand. To my eye, this view is unsurpassed by any in
the District.

Bishop Watson's two daughters were living in the neighborhood till two years ago,--antique
spinsters, presenting us with a most vivid specimen of the literary female life of the last
century. They were excellent women, differing from the rest of society chiefly in their notion
that superior people should show their superiority in all the acts of their lives,--that literary
people should talk literature, and scientific people science, and so on; and they felt affronted,
as if set down among common people, when an author talked about common things in a common way.
They did their best to treat their friends to wit and polite letters; and they expected to
be ministered to in the same fashion. This was rather embarrassing to visitors to whom it had
never occurred to talk for any other purpose than to say what presented itself at the moment;
but it is a privilege to have known those faithful sisters, and to have seen in them a good
specimen of the literary society of the last century.

There is another spot in that neighborhood which strangers look up to with interest from the
lake itself,--Dovenest, the abode of Mrs. Hemans for the short time of her residence at the
Lakes. She saw it for the first time from the lake, as her published correspondence tells,
and fell in love with it; and as it was vacant at the time, she went into it at once. Many
of my readers will remember her description of the garden and the view from it, the terrace,
the circular grass-plot with its one tall white rose-tree. "You cannot imagine," she wrote,
in 1830, "how I delight in that fair, solitary, neglected-looking tree." The tree is not neglected
now. Dovenest is inhabited by Mrs. Hemans's then young friend, the Rev. R.P. Graves; and it
has recovered from the wildness and desolation of thirty years ago, while looking as secluded
as ever among the woods on the side of Wansfell.

All this time, illustrious strangers were coming, year by year, to visit residents, or to live
among the mountains for a few weeks. There was Wilberforce, spending part of a summer at Rayrigg,
on the lake shore. One of his boys asked him, "Why should you not buy a house here? and then
we could come every year." The reply was characteristic:--that it would be very delightful;
but that the world is lying, in a manner, under the curse of God; that we have something else
to do than to enjoy fine prospects; and that, though it may be allowable to taste the pleasure
now and then, we ought to wait till the other life to enjoy ourselves. Such was the strait-lacing
in which the good man was forever trying to compress his genial, buoyant, and grateful nature.--Scott
came again and again; and Wordsworth and Southey met to do him honor. The tourist must remember
the Swan Inn,--the white house beyond Grasmere, under the skirts of Helvellyn. There Scott
went daily for a glass of something good, while Wordsworth's guest, and treated with the homely
fare of the Grasmere cottage. One morning, his host, himself, and Southey went up to the Swan,
to start thence with ponies for the ascent of Helvellyn. The innkeeper saw them coming, and
accosted Scott with "Eh, Sir! ye're come early for your draught to-day!"--a disclosure which
was not likely to embarrass his host at all. Wordsworth was probably the least-discomposed
member of the party.--Charles Lamb and his sister once popped in unannounced on Coleridge at
Keswick, and spent three weeks in the neighborhood. We can all fancy the little man on the
top of Skiddaw, with his mind full as usual of quips and pranks, and struggling with the emotions
of mountain-land, so new and strange to a Cockney, such as he truly described himself. His
loving readers do not forget his statement of the comparative charms of Skiddaw and Fleet Street;
and on the spot we quote his exclamations about the peak, and the keen air there, and the look
over into Scotland, and down upon a sea of mountains which made him giddy. We are glad he came
and enjoyed a day, which, as he said, would stand out like a mountain in his life; but we feel
that he could never have followed his friends hither,--Coleridge and Wordsworth,--and have
made himself at home. The warmth of a city and the hum of human voices all day long were necessary
to his spirits. As to his passage at arms with Southey,--everybody's sympathies are with Lamb;
and he only vexes us by his humility and gratitude at being pardoned by the aggressor, whom
he had in fact humiliated in all eyes but his own. It was one of Southey's spurts of insolent
bigotry; and Lamb's plea for tolerance and fair play was so sound as to make it a poor affectation
in Southey to assume a pardoning air; but, if Lamb's kindly and sensitive nature could not
sustain him in so virtuous an opposition, it is well that the two men did not meet on the top
of Skiddaw.--Canning's visit to Storrs, on Windermere, was a great event in its day; and Lockhart
tells us, in his "Life of Scott," what the regatta was like, when Wilson played Admiral, and
the group of local poets, and Scott, were in the train of the statesman. Since that day, it
has been a common thing for illustrious persons to appear in our valleys. Statesmen, churchmen,
university-men, princes, peers, bishops, authors, artists, flock hither; and during the latter
years of Wordsworth's life, the average number of strangers who called at Rydal Mount in the
course of the season was eight hundred.

During the growth of the District from its wildness to this thronged state, a minor light of
the region was kindling, flickering, failing, gleaming, and at last going out,--anxiously watched
and tended, but to little purpose. The life of Hartley Coleridge has been published by his
family; and there can, therefore, be no scruple in speaking of him here. The remembrance of
him haunts us all,--almost as his ghost haunts his kind landlady. Long after his death, she
used to "hear him at night laughing in his room," as he used to do when he lived there. A peculiar
laugh it was, which broke out when fancies crossed him, whether he was alone or in company.
Travellers used to look after him on the road, and guides and drivers were always willing to
tell about him; and still his old friends almost expect to see Hartley at any turn,--the little
figure, with the round face, marked by the blackest eyebrows and eyelashes, and by a smile
and expression of great eccentricity. As we passed, he would make a full stop in the road,
face about, take off his black-and-white straw hat, and bow down to the ground. The first glance
in return was always to see whether he was sober. The Hutchinsons must remember him. He was
one of the audience, when they held their concert under the sycamores in Mr. Harrison's grounds
at Ambleside; and he thereupon wrote a sonnet,[A] doubtless well known in America. When I wanted
his leave to publish that sonnet, in an account of "Frolics with the Hutchinsons," it was necessary
to hunt him up, from public-house to public-house, early in the morning. It is because these
things are universally known,--because he was seen staggering in the road, and spoken of by
drivers and lax artisans as an alehouse comrade, that I speak of him here, in order that I
may testify how he was beloved and cherished by the best people in his neighborhood. I can
hardly speak of him myself as a personal acquaintance; for I could not venture on inviting
him to my house. I saw what it was to others to be subject to day-long visits from him, when
he would ask for wine, and talk from morning to night,--and a woman, solitary and busy, could
not undertake that sort of hospitality; but I saw how forbearing his friends were, and why,--and
I could sympathize in their regrets when he died. I met him in company occasionally, and never
saw him sober; but I have heard from several common friends of the charm of his conversation,
and the beauty of his gentle and affectionate nature. He was brought into the District when
four years old; and it does not appear that he ever had a chance allowed him of growing into
a sane man. Wordsworth used to say that Hartley's life's failure arose mainly from his having
grown up "wild as the breeze,"--delivered over, without help or guardianship, to the vagaries
of an imagination which overwhelmed all the rest of him. There was a strong constitutional
likeness to his father, evident enough to all; but no pains seem to have been taken on any
hand to guard him from the snare, or to invigorate his will, and aid him in self-discipline.
The great catastrophe, the ruinous blow, which rendered him hopeless, is told in the Memoir;
but there are particulars which help to account for it. Hartley had spent his school-days under
a master as eccentric as he himself ever became. The Rev. John Dawes of Ambleside was one of
the oddities that may be found in the remote places of modern England. He had no idea of restraint,
for himself or his pupils; and when they arrived, punctually or not, for morning school, they
sometimes found the door shut, and chalked with "Gone a-hunting," or "Gone a-fishing," or gone
away somewhere or other. Then Hartley would sit down under the bridge, or in the shadow of
the wood, or lie on the grass on the hill-side, and tell tales to his schoolfellows for hours.
His mind was developed by the conversation of his father and his father's friends; and he himself
had a great friendship with Professor Wilson, who always stood by him with a pitying love.
He had this kind of discursive education, but no discipline; and when he went to college, he
was at the mercy of any who courted his affection, intoxicated his imagination, and then led
him into vice. His Memoir shows how he lost his fellowship at Oriel College, Oxford, at the
end of his probationary year. He had been warned by the authorities against his sin of intemperance;
and he bent his whole soul to get through that probationary year. For eleven months, and many
days of the twelfth, he lived soberly and studied well. Then the old tempters agreed in London
to go down to Oxford and get hold of Hartley. They went down on the top of the coach, got access
to his room, made him drunk, and carried him with them to London; and he was not to be found
when he should have passed. The story of his death is but too like this.

[Footnote A:

SONNET

TO TENNYSON, AFTER HEARING ABBY HUTCHINSON SING "THE MAY-QUEEN" AT AMBLESIDE.

  I would, my friend, indeed, thou hadst been
  here
  Last night, beneath the shadowy sycamore,
  To hear the lines, to me well known before,
  Embalmed in music so translucent clear.
  Each word of thine came singly to the ear,
  Yet all was blended in a flowing stream.
  It had the rich repose of summer dream,
  The light distinct of frosty atmosphere.
  Still have I loved thy verse, yet never knew
  How sweet it was, till woman's voice invested
  The pencilled outline with the living hue,
  And every note of feeling proved and tested.
  What might old Pindar be, if once again
  The harp and voice were trembling with his
  strain!
]

His fellowship lost, he came, ruinously humbled, to live in this District, at first under compulsion
to take pupils, whom, of course, he could not manage. On the death of his mother, an annuity
was purchased for him, and paid quarterly, to keep him out of debt, if possible. He could not
take care of money, and he was often hungry, and often begged the loan of a sixpence; and when
the publicans made him welcome to what he pleased to have, in consideration of the company
he brought together, to hear his wonderful talk, his wit, and his dreams, he was helpless in
the snare. We must remember that he was a fine scholar, as well as a dreamer and a humorist;
and there was no order of intellect, from the sage to the peasant, which could resist the charm
of his discourse. He had taken his degree with high distinction at Oxford; and yet the old
Westmoreland "statesman," who, offered whiskey and water, accepts the one and says the other
can be had anywhere, would sit long to hear what Hartley had to tell of what he had seen or
dreamed. At gentlemen's tables, it was a chance how he might talk,--sublimely, sweetly, or
with a want of tact which made sad confusion. In the midst of the great black-frost at the
close of 1848, he was at a small dinner-party at the house of a widow lady, about four miles
from his lodgings. During dinner, some scandal was talked about some friends of his to whom
he was warmly attached. He became excited on their behalf,--took Champagne before he had eaten
enough, and, before the ladies left the table, was no longer master of himself. His host, a
very young man, permitted some practical joking: brandy was ordered, and given to the unconscious
Hartley; and by eleven o'clock he was clearly unfit to walk home alone. His hostess sent her
footman with him, to see him home. The man took him through Ambleside, and then left him to
find his way for the other two miles. The cold was as severe as any ever known in this climate;
and it was six in the morning when his landlady heard some noise in the porch, and found Hartley
stumbling in. She put him to bed, put hot bricks to his feet, and tried all the proper means;
and in the middle of the day he insisted on getting up and going out. He called at the house
of a friend, Dr. S----, near Ambleside. The kind physician scolded him for coming out, sent
for a carriage, took him home, and put him to bed. He never rose again, but died on the 6th
of January, 1849. The young host and the old hostess have followed him, after deeply deploring
that unhappy day.

It was sweet, as well as sorrowful, to see how he was mourned. Everybody, from his old landlady,
who cared for him like a mother, to the infant-school children, missed Hartley Coleridge. I
went to his funeral at Grasmere. The rapid Rotha rippled and dashed over the stones beside
the churchyard; the yews rose dark from the faded grass of the graves; and in mighty contrast
to both, Helvellyn stood, in wintry silence, and sheeted with spotless snow. Among the mourners
Wordsworth was conspicuous, with his white hair and patriarchal aspect. He had no cause for
painful emotions on his own account; for he had been a faithful friend to the doomed victim
who was now beyond the reach of his tempters. While there was any hope that stern remonstrance
might rouse the feeble will and strengthen the suffering conscience to relieve itself, such
remonstrance was pressed; and when the case was past hope, Wordsworth's door was ever open
to his old friend's son. Wordsworth could stand by that open grave without a misgiving about
his own share in the scene which was here closing; and calm and simply grave he looked. He
might mourn over the life; but he could scarcely grieve at the death. The grave was close behind
the family group of the Wordsworth tombs. It shows, above the name and dates, a sculptured
crown of thorns and Greek cross, with the legend, "By thy Cross and Passion, Good Lord, deliver
me!"

One had come and gone meantime who was as express a contrast to Hartley Coleridge as could
be imagined,--a man of energy, activity, stern self-discipline, and singular strength of will.
Such a cast of character was an inexplicable puzzle to poor Hartley. He showed this by giving
his impression of another person of the same general mode of life,--that A.B. was "a monomaniac
about everything." It was to rest a hard-worked mind and body, and to satisfy a genuine need
of his nature, that Dr. Arnold came here from Rugby with his family,--first, to lodgings for
an occasional holiday, and afterwards to a house of his own, at Christmas and Midsummer, and
with the intention of living permanently at Fox How, when he should give up his work at Rugby.

He was first at a house at the foot of Rydal Mount, at Christmas, 1831, "with the road on one
side of the garden, and the Rotha on the other, which goes brawling away under our windows
with its perpetual music. The higher mountains that bound our view are all snow-capped; but
it is all snug, and warm, and green in the valley. Nowhere on earth have I ever seen a spot
of more perfect and enjoyable beauty, with not a single object out of tune with it, look which
way I will." He built Fox How, two or three years later, and at once began his course of hospitality
by having lads of the sixth form as his guests,--not for purposes of study, but of recreation,
and, yet more, to give them that element of education which consists in familiarity with the
noblest natural scenery. The hue and cry which arose when he showed himself a reformer, in
Church matters as in politics, followed him here, as we see by his letters; and it was not
till his "Life and Correspondence" appeared that his neighbors here understood him. It has
always been difficult, perhaps, for them to understand anything modern, or at all vivacious.
Everybody respected Dr. Arnold for his energy and industry, his services to education, and
his devotedness to human welfare; but they were afraid of his supposed opinions. Not the less
heartily did he honor everything that was admirable in them; and when he was gone, they remembered
his ways, and cherished every trace of him, in a manner which showed how they would have made
much of him, if their own timid prejudices had not stood in the way. They point out to this
day the spot where they saw him stand, without his hat, on Rotha bridge, watching the gush
of the river under the wooded bank, or gazing into the basin of vapors within the cul-de-sac
of Fairfield,--the same view which he looked on from his study, as he sat on his sofa, surrounded
by books. The neighbors show the little pier at Waterhead whence he watched the morning or
the evening light on the lake, the place where he bathed, and the tracks in the mountains which
led to his favorite ridges. Everybody has read his "Life and Correspondence," and therefore
knows what his mode of life was here, and how great was his enjoyment of it. We have all read
of the mountain-trips in summer, and the skating on Rydal Lake in winter,--and how his train
of children enjoyed everything with him, as far as they could. It was but for a few years;
and the time never came for him to retire hither from Rugby. In June, 1842, he had completed
his fourteenth year at Rugby, and was particularly in need, under some harassing cares, of
the solace and repose which a few hours more would have brought him, when he was cut off by
an illness of two hours. On the day when he was to have been returning to Fox How, some of
his children were travelling thence to his funeral. His biographer tells us how strong was
the consternation at Rugby, when the tidings spread on that Sunday morning, "Dr. Arnold is
dead." Not slight was the emotion throughout this valley, when the news passed from house to
house, the next day. As I write, I see the windows which were closed that day, and the trees
round the house,--so grown up since he walked among them!--and the course of the Rotha, which
winds and ripples at the foot of his garden. I never saw him, for I did not come here till
two years after; but I have seen his widow pass on into her honored old age, and his children
part off into their various homes, and their several callings in life,--to meet in the beloved
house at Fox How, at Christmas, and at many another time.

This leaves only Southey and the Wordsworths; and their ending was not far off. The old poet
had seen almost too much of these endings. One day, when I found a stoppage in the road at
the foot of Rydal Mount, from a sale of furniture, such as is common in this neighborhood every
spring and autumn, I met Mr. Wordsworth,--not looking observant and amused, but in his blackest
mood of melancholy, and evidently wanting to get out of the way. He said he did not like the
sight: he had seen so many of these sales; he had seen Southey's, not long before; and these
things reminded him how soon there must be a sale at Rydal Mount. It was remarked by a third
person that this was rather a wilful way of being miserable; but I never saw a stronger love
of life than there was in them all, even so late in their day as this. Mrs. Wordsworth, then
past her three-score years and ten, observed to me that the worst of living here was that it
made one so unwilling to go. It seems but lately that she said so; yet she nursed to their
graves her daughter and her husband and his sister, and she herself became blind; so that it
was not hard "to go," when the time came.

Southey's decline was painful to witness,--even as his beloved wife's had been to himself.
He never got over her loss; and his mind was decidedly shaken before he made the second marriage
which has been so much talked over. One most touching scene there was when he had become unconscious
of all that was said and done around him. Mrs. Southey had been careless of her own interests
about money when she married him, and had sought no protection for her own property. When there
was manifestly no hope of her husband's mind ever recovering, his brother assembled the family
and other witnesses, and showed them a kind of will which he had drawn up, by which Mrs. Southey's
property was returned to herself, intact. He said they were all aware that their relative could
not, in his condition, make a will, and that he was even unaware of what they were doing; but
that it was right that they should, pledge themselves by some overt act to fulfil what would
certainly have been his wish. The bowed head could not be raised, but the nerveless hand was
guided to sign the instrument; and all present agreed to respect it as if it were a veritable
will,--as of course they did. The decline was full of painful circumstances; and it must have
been with a heart full of sorrow that Wordsworth walked over the hills to attend the funeral.

The next funeral was that of his own daughter Dora,--Mrs. Quillinan. A story has got about,
as untrue as it is disagreeable, that Dora lost her health from her father's opposition to
her marriage, and that Wordsworth's excessive grief after her death was owing to remorse. I
can myself testify to her health having been very good for a considerable interval between
that difficulty and her last illness; and this is enough, of itself, to dispose of the story.
Her parents considered the marriage an imprudent one; but after securing sufficient time for
consideration, they said that she must judge for herself; and there were fine qualities in
Mr. Quillinan which could not but win their affection and substantial regard. His first wife,
a friend of Dora Wordsworth's, was carried out of the house in which she had just been confined,
from fire in the middle of the night; she died from the shock; and she died recommending her
husband and her friend to marry. Such is the understood history of the case. After much delay
they did marry, and lived near Rydal Mount, where Dora was, as always, the light of the house,
as long as she could go to it. But, after a long and painful decline, she died in 1847. Her
husband followed soon after Wordsworth's death. He lies in the family corner of Grasmere churchyard,
between his two wives. This appeared to be the place reserved for Mrs. Wordsworth, so that
Dora would lie between her parents. There seemed now to be no room left for the solitary survivor,
and many wondered what would be done; but all had been thought of. Wordsworth's grave had been
made deep enough for two; and there his widow now rests.

There was much vivid life in them, however clearly the end was approaching, when I first knew
them in 1845. The day after my arrival at a friend's house, they called on me, excited by two
kinds of interest. Wordsworth had been extremely gratified by hearing, through a book of mine,
how his works were estimated by certain classes of readers in the United States; and he and
Mrs. Wordsworth were eager to learn facts and opinions about mesmerism, by which I had just
recovered from a long illness, and which they hoped might avail in the case of a daughter-in-law,
then in a dying state abroad. After that day, I met them frequently, and was at their house,
when I could go. On occasion of my first visit, I was struck by an incident which explained
the ridicule we have all heard thrown on the old poet for a self-esteem which he was merely
too simple to hide. Nothing could be easier than to make a quiz of what he said to me; but
to me it seemed delightful. As he at once talked of his poems, I thought I might; and I observed
that he might be interested in knowing which of his poems had been Dr. Channing's favorite.
Seeing him really interested, I told him that I had not been many hours under Dr. Channing's
roof before he brought me "The Happy Warrior," which, he said, moved him more than any other
in the whole series. Wordsworth remarked,--and repeated the remark very earnestly,--that this
was evidently applicable to the piece, "not as a poem, not as fulfilling the conditions of
poetry, but as a chain of extremely valuable thoughts." Then he repeated emphatically,--"a
chain of extremely valuable thoughts!" This was so true that it seemed as natural for him to
say it as Dr. Channing, or any one else.

It is indisputable that his mind and manners were hurt by the prominence which his life at
the Lakes--a life very public, under the name of seclusion--gave, in his own eyes; to his own
works and conversation; but he was less absorbed in his own objects, less solemn, less severed
from ordinary men than is supposed, and has been given out by strangers, who, to the number
of eight hundred in a year, have been received by him with a bow, asked to see the garden-terraces
where he had meditated this and that work, and dismissed with another bow, and good wishes
for their health and pleasure,--the host having, for the most part, not heard, or not attended
to, the name of his visitor. I have seen him receive in that way a friend, a Commissioner of
Education, whom I ventured to take with me, (a thing I very rarely did,) and in the evening
have had a message asking if I knew how Mr. Wordsworth could obtain an interview with this
very gentleman, who was said to be in the neighborhood. All this must be very bad for anybody;
and so was the distinction of having early chosen this District for a home. When I first came,
I told my friends here that I was alarmed for myself, when I saw the spirit of insolence which
seemed to possess the cultivated residents, who really did virtually assume that the mountains
and vales were somehow their property, or at least a privilege appropriate to superior people
like themselves. Wordsworth's sonnets about the railway were a mild expression of his feelings
in this direction; and Mrs. Wordsworth, in spite of her excellent sense, took up his song,
and declared with unusual warmth that green fields, with daisies and buttercups, were as good
for Lancashire operatives as our lakes and valleys. I proposed that the people should judge
of this for themselves; but there was no end to ridicule of "the people from Birthwaite" (the
end of the railway, five miles off). Some had been seen getting their dinner in the churchyard,
and others inquiring how best to get up Loughrigg,--"evidently, quite puzzled, and not knowing
where to go." My reply, "that they would know next time," was not at all sympathized in. The
effect of this exclusive temper was pernicious in the neighborhood. A petition to Parliament
against the railway was not brought to me, as it was well known that I would not sign it; but
some little girls undertook my case; and the effect of their parroting of Mr. Wordsworth, about
"ourselves" and "the common people" who intrude upon us, was as sad as it was absurd. The whole
matter ended rather remarkably. When all were gone but Mrs. Wordsworth, and she was blind,
a friend who was as a daughter to her remarked, one summer day, that there were some boys on
the Mount in the garden. "Ah!" said Mrs. Wordsworth, "there is no end to those people;--boys
from Birthwaite!--boys from Birthwaite!" It was the Prince of Wales, with a companion or two.

The notion of Wordsworth's solemnity and sublimity, as something unremitting, was a total mistake.
It probably arose from the want of proportion in his mind, as in his sister's, before referred
to. But he relished the common business of life, and not only could take in, but originate
a joke. I remember his quizzing a common friend of ours,--one much esteemed by us all,--who
had a wonderful ability of falling asleep in an instant, when not talking. Mr. Wordsworth told
me of the extreme eagerness of this gentleman, Mrs. Wordsworth, and himself, to see the view
over Switzerland from the ridge of the Jura. Mrs. Wordsworth could not walk so fast as the
gentlemen, and her husband let the friend go on by himself. When they arrived, a minute or
two after him, they found him sitting on a stone in face of all Switzerland, fast asleep. When
Mr. Wordsworth mimicked the sleep, with his head on one side, anybody could have told whom
he was quizzing.--He and Mrs. Wordsworth, but too naturally impressed with the mischief of
overwalking in the case of women, took up a wholly mistaken notion that I walked too much.
One day I was returning from a circuit of ten miles with a guest, when we met the Wordsworths.
They asked where we had been. "By Red Bank to Grasmere." Whereupon Mr. Wordsworth laid his
hand on my guest's arm, saying, "There, there! take care what you are about! don't let her
lead you about! I can tell you, she has killed off half the gentlemen in the county!"--Mrs.
Hemans tells us, that, before she had known him many hours, she was saying to him, "Dear me,
Mr. Wordsworth! how can you be so giddy?"

His interest in common things never failed. It has been observed that he and Mrs. Wordsworth
did incalculable good by the example they unconsciously set the neighborhood of respectable
thrift. There are no really poor people at Rydal, because the great lady at the Hall, Lady
Le Fleming, takes care that there shall be none,--at the expense of great moral mischief. But
there is a prevalent recklessness, grossness, and mingled extravagance and discomfort in the
family management, which, I am told, was far worse when the Wordsworths came than it is now.
Going freely among the neighbors, and welcoming and helping them familiarly, the Wordsworths
laid their own lives open to observation; and the mingled carefulness and comfort--the good
thrift, in short--wrought as a powerful lesson all around. As for what I myself saw,--they
took a practical interest in my small purchase of land for my abode; and Mr. Wordsworth often
came to consult upon the plan and progress of the house. He used to lie on the grass, beside
the young oaks, before the foundations were dug; and he referred me to Mrs. Wordsworth as the
best possible authority about the placing of windows and beds. He climbed to the upper rooms
before there was a staircase; and we had to set Mrs. Wordsworth as a watch over him, when there
was a staircase, but no balustrade. When the garden was laid out, he planted a stone-pine (which
is flourishing) under the terrace-wall, washed his hands in the watering-pot, and gave the
place and me at once his blessing and some thrifty counsel. When I began farming, he told me
an immense deal about his cow; and both of them came to see my first calf, and ascertain whether
she had the proper marks of the handsome short-horn of the region. The distinctive impression
which the family made on the minds of the people about them was that of practical ability;
and it was thoroughly well conveyed by the remark of a man at Rydal, on hearing some talk of
Mrs. Wordsworth, a few days after the poet's death: --"She's a gay [rare] clever body, who
will carry on the business as well as any of 'em."

Nothing could be more affecting than to watch the silent changes in Mrs. Wordsworth's spirits
during the ten years which followed the death of her daughter. For many months her husband's
gloom was terrible, in the evenings, or in dull weather. Neither of them could see to read
much; and the poet was not one who ever pretended to restrain his emotions, or assume a cheerfulness
which he did not feel. We all knew that the mother's heart was the bereaved one, however impressed
the father's imagination might be by the picture of his own desolation; and we saw her mute
about her own trial, and growing whiter in the face and smaller from month to month, while
he put no restraint upon his tears and lamentations. The winter evenings were dreary; and in
hot summer days the aged wife had to follow him, when he was missed for any time, lest he should
be sitting in the sun without his hat. Often she found him asleep on the heated rock. His final
illness was wearing and dreary to her; but there her part was clear, and she was adequate to
it. "You are going to Dora," she whispered to him, when the issue was no longer doubtful. She
thought he did not hear or heed; but some hours after, when some one opened the curtain, he
said, "Are you Dora?" Composed and cheerful in the prospect of his approaching rest, and absolutely
without solicitude for herself, the wife was everything to him till the last moment; and when
he was gone, the anxieties of the self-forgetting woman were over. She attended his funeral,
and afterwards chose to fill her accustomed place among the guests who filled the house. She
made tea that evening as usual; and the lightening of her spirits from that time forward was
evident. It was a lovely April day, the 23d, (Shakspeare's birth--and death-day,) when her
task of nursing closed. The news spread fast that the old poet was gone; and we all naturally
turned our eyes up to the roof under which he lay. There, above and amidst the young green
of the woods, the modest dwelling shone in the sunlight. The smoke went up thin and straight
into the air; but the closed windows gave the place a look of death. There he was lying whom
we should see no more.

The poor sister remained for five years longer. Travellers, American and others, must remember
having found the garden-gate locked at Rydal Mount, and perceiving the reason why, in seeing
a little garden-chair, with an emaciated old lady in it, drawn by a nurse round and round the
gravelled space before the house. That was Miss Wordsworth, taking her daily exercise. It was
a great trouble, at times, that she could not be placed in some safe privacy; and Wordsworth's
feudal loyalty was put to a severe test in the matter. It had been settled that a cottage should
be built for his sister, in a field of his, beyond the garden. The plan was made, and the turf
marked out, and the digging about to begin, when the great lady at the Hall, Lady Le Fleming,
interfered with a prohibition. She assumed the feudal prerogative of determining what should
or should not be built on all the lands over which the Le Flemings have borne sway; and her
extraordinary determination was, that no dwelling should be built, except on the site of a
former one! We could scarcely believe we had not been carried back into the Middle Ages, when
we heard it; but the old poet, whom any sovereign in Europe would have been delighted to gratify,
submitted with a good grace, and thenceforth robbed his sister's feet, and coaxed and humored
her at home,--trusting his guests to put up with the inconveniences of her state, as he could
not remove them from sight and hearing. After she was gone also, Mrs. Wordsworth, entirely
blind, and above eighty years of age, seemed to have no cares, except when the errors and troubles
of others touched her judgment or sympathy. She was well cared for by nieces and friends. Her
plain common sense and cheerfulness appeared in one of the last things she said, a few hours
before her death. She remarked on the character of the old hymns, practical and familiar, which
people liked when she was young, and which answered some purposes better than the sublimer
modern sort. She repeated part of a child's hymn,--very homely, about going straight to school,
and taking care of the books, and learning the lesson well,--and broke off, saying, "There!
if you want to hear the rest, ask the Bishop o' London. He knows it."

Then, all were gone; and there remained only the melancholy breaking up of the old home which
had been interesting to the world for forty-six years. Mrs. Wordsworth died in January, 1859.
In the May following, the sale took place which Wordsworth had gloomily foreseen so many years
before. Everything of value was reserved, and the few articles desired by strangers were bought
by commission; and thus the throng at the sale was composed of the ordinary elements. The spectacle
was sufficiently painful to make it natural for old friends to stay away. Doors and windows
stood wide. The sofa and tea-table where the wisest and best from all parts of the world had
held converse were turned out to be examined and bid for. Anybody who chose passed the sacred
threshold; the auctioneer's hammer was heard on the terrace; and the hospitable parlor and
kitchen were crowded with people swallowing tea in the intervals of their business. One farmer
rode six-and-thirty miles that morning to carry home something that had belonged to Wordsworth;
and, in default of anything better, he took a patched old table-cover. There was a bed of anemones
under the windows, at one end of the house; and a bed of anemones is a treasure in our climate.
It was in full bloom in the morning; and before sunset, every blossom was gone, and the bed
was trampled into ruin. It was dreary work! The two sons live at a distance; and the house
is let to tenants of another name.

I perceive that I have not noticed the poet's laureateship. The truth is, the office never
seemed to belong to him; and we forgot it, when not specially reminded of it. We did not like
to think of him in court-dress, going through the ceremonies of levee or ball, in his old age.
His white hair and dim eyes were better at home among the mountains.

There stand the mountains, from age to age; and there run the rivers, with their full and never-pausing
tide, while those who came to live and grow wise beside them are all gone! One after another,
they have lain down to their everlasting rest in the valleys where their step and their voices
were as familiar as the points of the scenery. The region has changed much since they came
as to a retreat. It was they who caused the change, for the most part; and it was not for them
to complain of it; but the consequence is, that with them has passed away a peculiar phase
of life in England. It is one which can neither be continued nor repeated. The Lake District
is no longer a retreat; and any other retreat must have different characteristics, and be illumined
by some different order of lights. The case being so, I have felt no scruple in asking the
attention of my readers to a long story, and to full details of some of the latest Lights of
the Lake District.

PINK AND BLUE.

Everybody knows that a departing guest has the most to say. The touch of the door-knob sends
to his lips a thousand things which must be told. Is it strange, then, that old people, knowing
they have "made out their visit," and feeling themselves brimful of wisdom and experience,
should wish to speak from the fulness of their hearts to those whom they must so shortly leave?

Nobody thinks it strange. The world expects it, and, as a general thing, bears it patiently.
Knowing how universal is this spirit of forbearance, I should, perhaps, have forever held my
peace, lest I might abuse good-nature, had it not been for some circumstances which will be
related a little farther on.

My little place of business (I am the goldsmith of our village) has long been the daily resort
of several of my particular cronies. They are men of good minds,--some of them quite literary;
for we count, as belonging to our set, the lawyer, the schoolmaster, the doctor, men of business,
men of no business, and sometimes even the minister. As may be supposed, our discussions take
a wide range: I can give no better notion of how wide than to say that we discuss everything
in the papers. Yesterday was a snow-storm, but the meeting was held just the same. It was in
the afternoon. The schoolmaster came in late with a new magazine, from which he read, now and
then, for the general edification.

"Ah!" said he, "if this be true, we can all write for the papers."

"How's that?" we asked.

"Why, it says here, that, if the true experience of any human heart were written, it would
be worth more than the best tale ever invented."

It was a terribly stormy day. The snow came whirling against the two windows of my shop, clinging
to the outside, making it twilight within. I had given up work; for my eyes are not what they
were, and I have to favor them. Nobody spoke for a while; all had been set to thinking. Those
few words had sent us all back, back, back, thirty, forty, fifty years, to call up the past.
We were gazing upon forms long since perished, listening to voices long ago hushed forever.
Could those forms have been summoned before us, how crowded would have been my little shop!
Could those voices have been heard, how terrible the discord, the cries of the wretched mingling
with the shouts of the happy ones! There was a dead silence. The past was being questioned.
Would it reply?

At last some one said,--

"Try it."

"But," said another, "it would fill a whole book."

"Take up one branch, then; for instance, our--well, our courting-days. Let each one tell how
he won his wife."

"But shall we get any money by it?"

"To be sure we shall. Do you think people write for nothing? 'Worth more' are the very words
used; 'worth more' what? Money, of course."

"But what shall we do with all our money?"

"Buy a library for the use of us all. We will draw lots to see who shall write first; and if
he succeeds, the others can follow in order."

And thus we agreed.

I was rather sorry the lot fell upon me; for I was always bashful, and never thought much of
myself but once. I think my bashfulness was mostly owing to my knowing myself to be not very
good-looking. I believe that I am not considered a bad-looking old man; indeed, people who
remember me at twenty-five say that I have grown handsome every year since.

I do not intend giving a description of myself at that age, but shall confine myself principally
to what was suggested by my friend, as above mentioned,--namely, how I won my wife.

It is astonishing how a man may be deluded. Knowing, as I did, just the facts in the case,
regarding my face and figure, yet the last day of the year 1817 found me in the full belief
that I was quite a good-looking and every way a desirable young man. This was the third article
in my creed. The second was, that Eleanor Sherman loved me; and the first, that I loved her.
It is curious how I became settled in the third article by means of the second.

I had spent hours before my looking-glass, trying to make it give in that I was good-looking.
But never was a glass so set in its way. In vain I used my best arguments, pleaded before it
hour after hour, re-brushed my hair, re-tied my cravat, smiled, bowed, and so forth, and so
forth. "Ill-looking and awkward!" was my only response. At last it went so far as to intimate
that I had, with all the rest, a conceited look. This was not to be borne, and I withdrew in
disgust. The argument should be carried on in my own heart. Pure reasoning only was trustworthy.
Philosophers assured us that our senses were not to be trusted. How easy and straightforward
the mental process! "Eleanor loves me; therefore I cannot look ill!"

It was on the last day of the year I have mentioned, that, just having, for the fortieth time,
arrived at the above conclusion, I prepared to go forth upon the most delightful of all possible
errands. All day I had been dwelling upon it, wondering at what hour it would be most proper
to go. At three o'clock, I arrayed myself in my Sunday-clothes. I gave a parting glance of
triumph at my glass, and stepped briskly forth upon the crispy snow. I met people well wrapped
up, with mouth and nose covered, and saw men leave working to thrash their hands. It must have
been cold, therefore; but I felt none of it.

Her house was half a mile distant. 'T was on a high bank a little back from the road, of one
story in front, and two at the sides. It was what was called a single house; the front showed
only two windows, with a door near the corner. The sides were painted yellow, the front white,
with a green door. There was an orchard behind, and two poplar-trees before it. The pathway
up the bank was sprinkled with ashes. I had frequently been as far as the door with her, evenings
when I waited upon her home; but I had never before approached the house by daylight,--that
is, any nearer than the road. I had never said anything; it wasn't time; but I had given her
several little things, and had tried to be her beau every way that I knew.

Before I began to notice her, I had never been about much with the young folks,--partly because
I was bashful, and partly because I was so clumsy-looking. I was more in earnest, therefore,
than if I had been in the habit of running after the girls. After I began to like her, I watched
every motion,--at church, at evening meetings, at singing-school; and a glance from her eye
seemed to fall right upon my heart. She had been very friendly and sociable with me, always
thanked me very prettily for what little trifles I gave her, and never refused my company home.
She would put her hand within my arm without a moment's hesitation, chatting all the while,
never seeming in the least to suspect the shiver of joy which shot through my whole frame from
the little hand upon my coat-sleeve.

I had long been pondering in my mind, in my walks by day and my lyings-down at night, what
should be the next step, what overt act I might commit; for something told me it was not yet
time to say anything.

What could have been more fortunate for my wishes, then, than the project set on foot by the
young people, of a grand sleighing-party on New-Year's evening? They were mostly younger than
myself, especially the girls. Eleanor was but seventeen, I was twenty-three. But I determined
to join this party, and it was to invite Eleanor that I arrayed myself and set forth, as above
mentioned. It was a bold step for a bashful man,--I mean now the inviting part.

I had thought over, coming along, just what words I should use; but, as I mounted the bank,
I felt the words, ideas, and all, slipping out at the ends of my fingers. If it had been a
thickly settled place, I should not have thought much about being watched; but, as there was
only one house in sight, I was sure that not a motion was lost, that my proceedings would be
duly reported, and discussed by the whole village. All these considerations rendered my situation
upon the stone step at the front-door very peculiar.

I knew the family were in the back part of the house; for the shutters of the front-room were
tightly closed, as, indeed, they always were, except on grand occasions. Nevertheless, knocking
at the front-door seemed the right thing to do, and I did it. With a terrible choking in my
throat, and wondering all the while who would come to open, I did it. I knocked three times.
Nobody came. Peddlers, I had observed in like cases, opened the outside door and knocked at
the inner. I tried this with no better result. I then ventured to open the inner door softly,
and with feelings of awe I stood alone in the spare-room.

By the light which streamed in through the holes in the tops of the shutters I distinguished
the green painted chairs backed up stiffly against the wall, the striped homespun carpet, andirons
crossed in the fireplace, with shovel and tongs to match, the big Bible on the table under
the glass, a waxwork on the high mahogany desk in the corner, and a few shells and other ornaments
upon the mantelshelf.

The terrible order and gloom oppressed me. I felt that it was no slight thing to venture thus
unbidden into the spare-room,--the room set apart from common uses, and opened only on great
occasions: evening-meetings, weddings, or funerals. But, in the midst of all my tribulation,
one other thought would come,--I don't exactly like to tell it, but then I believe I promised
to keep nothing back;--well, then, if I must,--I thought that this spare-room was the place
where Eleanor would make up the fire, when--when I was far enough along to come regularly every
Sunday night. With that thought my courage revived. I heard voices in the next room, the pounding
of a flat-iron, and a frequent step across the floor. I gave a loud rap. The door opened, and
Eleanor herself appeared. She had on a spotted calico gown, with a string of gold beads around
her neck. She held in her hand a piece of fan coral. I felt myself turning all colors, stammered,
hesitated, and believed in my heart that she would think me a fool. Very likely she did; for
I really suppose that she never, till then, thought that I meant anything.

She contrived, however, to pick out my meaning from the midst of the odd words and parts of
sentences offered her, and replied that she would let me know that evening. As she did not
invite me to the kitchen, the only thing left me to do was to say good-afternoon and depart.
I don't know which were the queerest,--my feelings in going up or in coming down the bank.

When fairly in the road, happening to glance back at the house, I saw that one half of a shutter
was open, and that a man was watching me. He drew back before I could recognize him. That evening
was singing-school. That was why I went to invite Eleanor in the afternoon. I was afraid some
other fellow would ask her before school was out.

When I got there, I found all the young folks gathered about the stove. Something was going
on. I pressed in, and found Harry Harlow. He had been gone a year at sea, and had arrived that
forenoon in the stage from Boston. They were all listening to his wonderful stories.

When school was over, I stepped up close to Eleanor and offered my arm. She drew back a little,
and handed me a small package. Harry stepped up on the other side. She took his arm, and they
went off slowly together. I stood still a moment to watch them. When they turned the corner,
I went off alone. Confounded, wonder-struck, I plunged on through the snow-drifts, seeing,
feeling, knowing nothing but the package in my hand. I found mother sitting by the fire. She
and I lived together,--she and I, and that was all. I knew I should find her with her little
round table drawn up to the fire, her work laid aside, and the Bible open. She never went to
bed with me out.

I didn't want to tell her. I wouldn't for the world, if I could have had the opening of my
package all to myself. She asked me if I had fastened the back-door. I sat down by the fire
and slowly undid the string. A silver thimble fell on the bricks. There was also an artificial
flower made of feathers, a copy of verses headed "To a Pair of Bright Eyes," cut from the county
newspaper, a cherry-colored neck-ribbon, a smelling-bottle, and, at the bottom, a note. I knew
well enough what was in the note.

"MR. ALLEN,--

"I must decline your invitation to the sleigh-ride; and I hope you will not be offended, if
I ask you not to go about with me any more. I think you are a very good young man, and, as
an acquaintance, I like you very much.

"Respectfully yours,

"ELEANOR SHERMAN.

"P.S.--With this note you will find the things you have given me."

I took the iron tongs which stood near, picked up the thimble and dropped it into the midst
of the hot coals, then the flower, then the verses, then the ribbon, then the smelling-bottle,
and would gladly have added myself.

My mother and I were everything to each other. We two were all that remained of a large family.
I had always confided in her; but still I was sorry that I had opened the package there. I
might have taken it to my chamber. But then she would have known, she must have known from
my manner, that something was wrong with me. I think, on the whole, I was glad to have her
know the worst. I knew that my mother worshipped me; but she was not one of those who let their
feelings be seen on common occasions. I gave her the note, and no more was needed. She tried
to comfort me, as mothers will; but I would not be comforted. It was my first great heart-trouble,
and I was weighed down beneath it. She drew me towards her, I leaned my head upon her shoulder,
and was not ashamed that she knew of the hot tears upon my cheeks. At last I heard her murmuring
softly,--

"Oh, what shall I do? He is all I have, and he is so miserable! How can I bear his sorrow?"

I think it was the recollection of these words which induced me afterwards to hide my feelings,
that she might not suffer on my account.

The next day was clear and bright. The sleighing was perfect. I was miserable. I had not slept.
I could not eat. I dared not go into the village to encounter the jokes which I was certain
awaited me there. Early in the evening, just as the moon rose, I took my stand behind a clump
of trees, half-way up a hill, where I knew the sleighs must pass.

There I stood, feeling neither cold nor weariness, waiting, watching, listening for the sleigh-bells.
At last I heard them, first faintly, then louder and louder, until they reached the bottom
of the hill. Slowly they came up, passing, one after another, by my hiding-place. There were
ten sleighs in all. She and Harry were in the fourth. The moon shone full in their faces, and
his looked just as I had often felt; but I had never dared to show it as Harry did. I felt
sure that he would kiss her. A blue coverlet was wrapped around them, and he was tucking it
in on her side. The hill was steep just there, so that they were obliged to move quite slowly.
They were talking earnestly, and I heard my name. I was not sure at first; but afterwards I knew.

"I never thought of his being in earnest before. He is a great deal older than I, and I never
thought that anybody so homely and awkward as he could suppose"--

"Jingle, jingle, jingle," and that was all I heard. I held myself still, watched the sleighs
disappear, one after another, over the brow of the hill, listened till the last note of the
last bell was lost in the distance, then turned and ran.

I ran as if I had left my misery behind, and every step were taking me farther from it. But
when I reached home, there it was, aching, aching in my heart, just the same as before. And
there it stayed. Even now, I can hardly bear to think of those terrible days and nights. But
for my mother's sake I tried to seem cheerful, though I no longer went about with the young
folks. I applied myself closely to my business, sawed my mother's wood for exercise, learned
to paint, and read novels and poetry for amusement.

Thus time passed on. The little boys began to call themselves young men, and me an old bach;
and into this character I contentedly settled down. My wild oats, of which I had had but scant
measure, I considered sown. My sense of my own ill-looks became morbid. I hardly looked at
a female except my mother, lest she'd think that I "could suppose." The old set were mostly
married off. Eleanor married the young sailor. People spoke of her as being high-tempered,
as being extravagant, spending in fine clothes the money he earned at the risk of his life.
I don't know that it made any difference to my feelings. It might. At the time she turned me
off, I think I should have married her, knowing she had those faults. But she removed to the
city, and by degrees time and absence wore off the edge of my grief. My mother lost part of
her little property, and I was obliged to exert myself that she might miss none of her accustomed
comforts. She was a good mother, thoughtful and tender, sympathizing not only in my troubles,
but in my every-day pursuits, my work, my books, my paintings.

When I was about thirty, Jane Wood came to live near us. Her mother and young sister came with
her. They rented a small house just across the next field from us. Although ours, therefore,
might have been considered an infected neighborhood, yet I never supposed myself in the slightest
danger, because I had had the disease. Nevertheless, having an abiding sense of my own ugliness,
I should not have ventured into the immediate presence of the Woods, except on works of necessity
and mercy.

The younger sister was taken very ill with the typhus fever. It was customary, in our village,
for the neighbors, in such cases, to be very helpful. Mother was with them day and night, and,
when she could not go herself, used to send me to see if they wanted anything, for they had
no men-folks.

I seldom saw Jane, and when I did, I never looked at her. I mean, I did not look her full in
the face. It was to her mother that I made all my offers of assistance.

This habit of shunning the society of all young females, and particularly of the Wood girls,
was by no means occasioned by any fears in regard to my own safety. Far from it. I considered
myself as one set apart from all mankind,--set apart, and fenced in, by my own personal disadvantages.
The thought of my caring for a girl, or of being cared for by a girl, never even occurred to
me. "Taboo," so far as I was concerned, was written upon them all. The marriage state I saw
from afar off. Beautiful and bright it looked in the distance, like the Promised Land to true
believers. Some visions I beheld of its beautiful angels walking in shining robes; strains
of its sweet melody were sometimes wafted across the distance; but I might never enter there.
It was no land of promise to me. A gulf, dark and impassable, lay between. And beside all this,
as I have already intimated, I considered myself out of danger. My life's lesson had been learned.
I knew it by heart. What more could be expected of me?

But, after all, we can't go right against our natures; and it is not the nature of man to look
upon the youthful and the elderly female exactly in the same light. The feelings with which
they are approached are essentially different, whether he who approaches be seventeen or seventy.
Thus, in conversing with the old lady Wood, I was quite at my ease. When the invalid began
to get well, I often carried her nice little messes, which my mother prepared, and was generally
lucky enough to find Mrs. Wood,--for I always went in at the back-door. She asked me, one day,
if I could lend Ellen something to read,--for she was then just about well enough to amuse
herself with a book, but not strong enough to work. Now I always had (so my mother said) a
kind and obliging way with me, and had, besides, a great pride in my library. I was delighted
that anybody wanted to read my books, and hurried home to make a selection.

That very afternoon, I took over an armful. Nobody was in the kitchen; so I sat down to wait.
The door of the little keeping-room was open, and I knew by their voices that some great discussion
was going on. I tipped over a cricket to make them aware of my presence. The door was opened
wide, and Mrs. Wood appeared.

"Now here is Mr. Allen," she exclaimed. "Let us get his opinion."

Then she took me in, where they were holding solemn council over a straw bonnet and various
colored ribbons. She introduced me to Ellen, whom I had never before met. She was a merry-looking,
black-eyed maiden, and the roses were already blooming out again upon her cheeks. She was very
young,--not more than fifteen or sixteen.

"Now, Mr. Allen," said Jane, (she was not so bashful to me as I was to her,) "let us have your
opinion upon these trimmings. Remember, though, that pink and blue can't go together."

She turned her face full upon me, and I looked straight into her eyes. I really believe it
was the first time I had done so. They were beautifully blue, with long dark lashes. She had
been a little excited by the discussion, and her cheeks were like two roses. A strange boldness
came over me.

"How can I remember that," I answered, "when I see in your face that pink and blue do go together?"

Never, till within a few years, could I account for this sudden boldness. I have now no doubt
that I spoke by what spiritualists call "impression." We were all surprised, and I most of
all. Jane laughed, and looked pinker than before. She would as soon have expected a compliment
from the town pump, and I felt it.

I knew nothing of bonnets, but I had studied painting, and was a judge of colors. I made a
selection, and could see that they were again surprised at my good taste. I then offered my
books, spoke of the different authors, turned to what I thought might particularly please them,
and, before I knew it, was all aglow with the unusual excitement of conversation. I saw that
they were not without cultivation, and that they had a quick appreciation of literary merit.

And thus an acquaintance commenced. I called often, for it seemed a pleasant thing to do. As
my excuse, I took with me my books, papers, and all the new publications which reached me.
I always thought they appeared very glad to see me.

Being strangers in the place, they saw but little company, and it seemed to be nothing more
than my duty to call in now and then in a neighborly way. I talked quite easily; for among
books I felt at home. They talked easily, too; for they (I say it in no ill-natured way) were
women. They began to consider my frequent calling as a matter of course, and always smiled
upon me when I entered. I felt that they congratulated themselves upon finding me out. They
had penetrated the ice, and found open sea beyond. I speak of it in this way, because I afterwards
overheard Ellen joking her sister about discovering the Northwest Passage to my heart.

This was in the fall of the year, when the evenings were getting quite long. They were fond
of reading, but had not much time for it. I was fond of reading, and had many long evenings
at my disposal. It followed, therefore, that I read aloud, while they worked. With the "Pink
and Blue" just opposite, I read evening after evening. At first I used to look up frequently,
to see how such and such a passage would strike her; but one evening Ellen asked me, in a laughing,
half-saucy sort of way, why I didn't look at her sometimes to see how she liked things. This
made me color up; and Jane colored up, too. After that I kept my eyes on my book; but I always
knew when she stopped her work and raised her head at the interesting parts, and always hoped
she didn't see the red flushes spreading over my face, and always wished, too, that she would
look away,--for, somehow, my voice would not go on smoothly.

Those red flushes were to myself most mysterious. Nevertheless, they continued, and even appeared
to be on the increase. At first, I felt them only while reading; then, upon entering the room;
and at last they began to come before I got across the field. Still I felt no real uneasiness,
but, on the contrary, was glad I could be of so much use to the family. Never before was the
want of men-folks felt so little by a family of women-folks. I did errands, split kindling,
dug "tracks," (i. e., paths in the snow,) and glued broken furniture.

I always thought of Jane as "Pink and Blue." Sometimes I thought from her manner that she would
a little rather I wouldn't come so often. I thought she didn't look up at me so pleasantly
as she used to at first, and seemed a little stiff; but, as I had a majority in my favor, I
continued my visits. I always had one good look at her when I said good-night; but it made
the red come, so that I had to hurry out before she saw. It seemed to me that her cheeks then
looked pinker than ever, and the two colors, pink and blue, seemed to mingle and float before
my eyes all the way home. "Pink and blue," "pink and blue." How those two little words kept
running in my head, and, I began to fear, in my heart too!--for no sooner would I close my
eyes at night than those delicate pink cheeks and blue eyes would appear before me. They haunted
my dreams, and were all ready to greet me at waking.

I was completely puzzled. It reminded me of old times. Seemed just like being in love again.
Could it be possible that I was liable to a second attack?

One night I took a new book and hurried across the field to the Woods', for I never was easy
till I saw "Pink and Blue" face to face; and then,--why, then, I was not at all easy. I felt
the red flushes coming long before I reached the house. As soon as I entered the room, I felt
that she was missing. I must have looked blank; for Mrs. Wood began to explain immediately,
that Jane was not well, and had gone to bed;--nothing serious; but she had thought it better
for her not to sit up. I remained and read as usual, but, as it seemed to me, to bare walls.
I had become so accustomed to reading with "Pink and Blue" just opposite, to watching for the
dropping of her work and the raising of her eyes to my face, that I really seemed on this occasion
to be reading to no purpose whatever. I went home earlier than usual, very sober and very full
of thought. My mother noticed it, and inquired if they were well at Mrs. Wood's. So I told
her about Jane.

That night my eyes were fully opened. I was in love. Yes, the old disease was upon me, and
my last state was worse than my first,--just as much so as Jane was superior to Eleanor. The
discovery threw me into the greatest distress. Hour after hour I walked the floor, in my own
chamber, trying to reason the love from my heart,--but in vain; and at length, tossing myself
on the bed, I almost cursed the hour in which I first saw the Woods. I called myself fool,
dolt, idiot, for thus running my head a second time into the noose. It may seem strange, but
the thought that she might possibly care for me never once occurred to my mind. Eleanor's words
in the sleigh still rang in my ears: "I never thought that anybody so homely and awkward could
suppose"--No, I must not "suppose." Once, in the midst of it all, I calmed down, took a light,
and, very deliberately walking to the glass, took a complete view of my face and figure,--but
with no other effect than to settle me more firmly in my wretchedness. Towards morning I grew
calmer, and resolved to look composedly upon my condition, and decide what should be done.

While I was considering whether or not to continue my visits at the Woods', I fell asleep just
where I had thrown myself, outside the bed, in overcoat and boots. I dreamed of seeing "Pink
and Blue" carried off by some horrid monster,--which, upon examination, proved to be myself.
The sun shining in my face woke me, and I remembered that I had decided upon nothing. The best
thing seemed to be to snap off the acquaintance and quit the place. But then I could not leave
my mother. No, I must keep where I was,--and if I kept where I was, I must keep on at the Woods',--and
if I kept on at the Woods', I should keep on feeling just as I did, and perhaps--more so. I
resolved, finally, to remain where I was, and to take no abrupt step, (which might cause remark,)
but to break off my visits gradually. The first week, I could skip one night,--the next, two,--and
so on,--using my own judgment about tapering off the acquaintance gradually and gracefully
to an imperceptible point. The way appearing plain at last, how that unloving might be made
easy, I assumed a cheerful air, and went down to breakfast. My mother looked up rather anxiously
at my entrance; but her anxiety evidently vanished at sight of my face.

It did not seem to me quite right to forsake the Woods that morning; for some snow had fallen
during the night, and I felt it incumbent upon me to dig somewhat about the doors. With my
trousers tucked into my boots, I trod a new path across the field. It would have seemed strange
not to go in; so I went in and warmed my feet at the kitchen-fire. Only Mrs. Wood was there;
but I made no inquiries. Not knowing what to say, I rose to go; but, just at that minute, the
mischievous Ellen came running out of the keeping-room and wanted to know where I was going.
Why didn't I come in and see Jane? So I went in to see Jane, saying my prayers, as I went,--that
is, praying that I might not grow foolish again. But I did. I don't believe any man could have
helped it. She was reclining upon a couch which was drawn towards the fire. I sat down as far
from that couch as the size of the room would allow. She looked pale and really ill, but raised
her blue eyes when she said good-morning; and then--the hot flushes began to come. She looked
red, too, and I thought she had a settled fever. I wanted to say something, but didn't know
what. Some things seemed too warm, others too cold. At last I thought,--"Why, anybody can say
to anybody, 'How do you do?'" So I said,--

"Miss Wood, how do you do, this morning?"

She looked up, surprised; for I tried hard to stiffen my words, and had succeeded admirably.

"Not very unwell, I thank you, Sir," she replied; but I knew she was worse than the night before.
My situation grew unbearable, and I rose to go.

"Mr. Allen, what do you think about Jane?" said Ellen. "You know about sickness, don't you?
Come, feel her pulse, and see if she will have a fever." And she drew me towards the lounge.

My heart was in my throat, and my face was on fire. Jane flushed up, and I thought she was
offended at my presumption. What could I do? Ellen held out to me the little soft hand; but
I dared not touch it, unless I asked her first.

"Miss Wood," I asked, "shall I mind Ellen?"

"Of course you will," exclaimed Ellen. "Tell him yes, Jane."

Then Jane smiled and said,--

"Yes, if he is willing."

And I took her wrist in my thumb and finger. The pulse was quick and the skin dry and hot.
I think I would have given a year's existence to clasp that hand between my own, and to stroke
down her hair. I hardly knew how I didn't do it; and the fear that I should made me drop her
arm in a hurry, as if it had burned my fingers. Ellen stared. I bade them good-morning abruptly,
and left the room and the house. "This, then," I thought, as I strode along towards the village,
"is the beginning of the ending!"

That evening, I felt in duty bound to go, as a neighbor, to inquire for the sick. I went, but
found no one below. When Ellen came down, she said that Jane was quite ill. I remained in the
keeping-room all the evening, mostly alone, asked if I could do anything for them, and obtained
some commissions for the next day at the village.

Jane's illness, though long, was not dangerous,--at least, not to her. To me it was most perilous,
particularly the convalescence; for then I could be of so much use to her! The days were long
and spring-like. Wild flowers appeared. She liked them, and I managed that she should never
be without a bunch of them. She liked paintings, and I brought over my own portfolio. She must
have wondered at the number of violets and roses therein. The readings went on and seemed more
delicious than ever. I owned a horse and chaise, and for a whole week debated whether it would
be safe for me to take her to drive. But I didn't; for I should have been obliged to hand her
in, to help her out, and to sit close beside her all alone. All that could never be done without
my betraying myself. But she got well without any drives; and by the latter part of April,
when the evenings had become very short, I thought it high time to begin to skip one. I began
on Monday. I kept away all day, all the evening, and all the next day. Tuesday evening, just
before dark, I took the path across the field. The two girls were at work making a flower-garden.
"Pink and Blue" had a spade, and was actually spading up the ground. I caught it from her hand
so quickly that she looked up almost frightened. Her face was flushed with exercise; but her
blue eyes looked tired. How I reproached myself for not coming sooner! At dark, I went in with
them. We took our accustomed seats, and I read. "Paradise regained" was what I kept thinking
of. Once, when I moved my seat, that I might be directly opposite Jane, who was lying on the
coach, I thought I saw Ellen and her mother exchange glances. I was suspected, then,--and with
all the pains I had taken, too. This rather upset me; and what with my joy at being with Jane,
my exertions to hide it, and my mortification at being discovered, my reading, I fear, was
far from satisfactory.

The next morning I went early to the flower-garden, and, before anybody was stirring, had it
all hoed and raked over, so that no more hard work could be done there. I didn't go in. Thursday
night I went again, and again Saturday night. The next week I skipped two evenings, and the
next, three, and flattered myself I was doing bravely. Jane never asked me why I came so seldom,
but Ellen did frequently; and I always replied that I was very busy. Those were truly days
of suffering. Nevertheless, having formed my resolution, I determined to abide by it. God only
knew what it cost me. On the beautiful May mornings, and during the long "after tea," which
always comes into country-life, I could watch them, watch her, from my window, while the planting,
watering, and weeding went on in the flower-garden. I saw them go in at dark, saw the light
appear in the keeping-room, and fancied them sitting at their work, wondering, perhaps, that
nobody came to read to them.

One day, when I had not been there for three days and nights, I received, while at work in
my shop, a sudden summons from home. My mother, the little boy said, was very sick. I hurried
home in great agitation. I could not bear the thought that sickness or death should reach my
dear mother. Mrs. Wood met me at the door, to say that a physician had been sent for, but that
my mother was relieved and there was no immediate danger. I hurried to her chamber and found--Jane
by her bedside. For all my anxiety about my mother, I felt the hot flush spreading over my
face. It seemed so good to see her taking care of my mother! In my agitation, I caught hold
of her hand and spoke before I thought.

"Oh, Jane," I whispered, "I am so glad you are here!"

Her face turned as red as fire. I thought she was angry at my boldness, or, perhaps, because
I called her Jane.

"Excuse me," said I. "I am so agitated about mother that I hardly know what I am about."

When the doctor came, he gave hopes that my mother would recover; but she never did. She suffered
little, but grew weaker and weaker every day. Jane was with her day and night; for my mother
liked her about her bed better than anybody. Oh, what a strange two weeks were those! My mother
was so much to me, how could I give her up? She was the only person on earth who cared for
me, and she must die! Yet side by side in my heart with this great grief was the great joy
of living, day after day, night after night, under the same roof with Jane. By necessity thrown
constantly with her, feeling bound to see that she, too, did not get sick, with watching and
weariness,--yet feeling myself obliged to measure my words, to keep up an unnatural stiffness,
lest I should break down, and she know all my weakness!

At last all was over,--my mother was dead. It is of no use,--I never can put into words the
frenzied state of my feelings at that time. I had not even the poor comfort of grieving like
other people. I ground my teeth and almost cursed myself, when the feeling would come that
sorrow for my mother's death was mingled with regrets that there was no longer any excuse for
my remaining in the same neighborhood with Jane. I reproached myself with having made my mother's
death-bed a place of happiness; for my conscience told me that those two weeks had been, in
one sense, the happiest of my life.

By what I then experienced I knew that our connection must be broken off entirely. Half-way
work had already been tried too long. Sitting by the dead body of my mother, gazing upon that
face which, ever since I could remember, had reflected my own joys and sorrows, I resolved
to decide once for all upon my future course. I was without a single tie. In all the wide world,
not a person cared whether I lived or died. One part of the wide world, then, was as good for
me as another. There was but one little spot where I must not remain; all the rest was free
to me. I took the map of the world. I was a little past thirty, healthy, and should probably,
accidents excepted, live out the time allotted to man. I divided the land mapped out before
me into fifteen portions. I would live two years in each; then, being an old man, I would gradually
draw nearer to this forbidden "little spot," inquire what had become of the Woods, and settle
down in the same little house, patiently to await my summons. My future life being thus all
mapped out, I arose with calmness to perform various little duties which yet remained to be
done before the funeral could take place.

Beautiful flowers were in the room; a few white ones were at my mother's breast. Jane brought
them. She had done everything, and I had not even thanked her. How could I, in that stiff way
I had adopted towards her?

My father was buried beneath an elm-tree, at the farthest corner of the garden. I had my mother
laid by his side. When the funeral was over, Mrs. Wood and her daughters remained at the house
to arrange matters somewhat, and to give directions to the young servant, who was now my only
housekeeper. At one time I was left alone with Jane; the others were up stairs. Feeling that
any emotion on my part might reasonably be attributed to my affliction, I resolved to thank
her for her kindness. I rushed suddenly up to her, and, seizing her hand, pressed it between
my own.

"I want to thank you, Jane," I began, "but--I cannot."

And I could not, for I trembled all over, and something choked me so that I could not speak more.

"Oh, don't, Mr. Allen!" she said; and the tone in which she uttered the words startled me.

It seemed as if they came from the very depths of her being. Feeling that I could not control
myself, I rushed out and gained my own chamber. What passed there between myself and my great
affliction can never be told.

In a week's time all was ready for my departure. I gave away part of the furniture to some
poor relations of my father's. My mother's clothing and the silver spoons, which were marked
with her maiden name, I locked up in a trunk, and asked Mrs. Wood to take care of it. She inquired
where I was going, and I said I didn't know. I didn't, for I was not to decide until I reached
Boston. I think she thought my mind was impaired by grief, and it was. I spent the last evening
there. They knew I was to start the next forenoon in the stage, and they really seemed very
sober. No reading was thought of. Jane had her knitting-work, and Mrs. Wood busied herself
about her mending. The witchy little Ellen was quite serious. She sat in a low chair by the
fire, sometimes stirring up the coals and sometimes the conversation. Jane appeared restless.
I feared she was overwearied with watching and her long attendance on my mother, for her face
was pale and she had a headache. She left the room several times. I felt uneasy while she was
out; but no less so when she came back,--for there was a strange look about her eyes.

At last I summoned all my courage and rose to depart.

"I will not say good-bye," I said, in a strange, hollow voice; "I will only shake hands, and
bid you good-night."

I shook hands with them all,--Jane last. Her hand was as cold as clay. I dared not try to speak,
but rushed abruptly from the house. Another long night of misery!

When I judged, from the sounds below stairs, that my little servant had breakfast ready, I
went down and forced myself to eat; for I was feeling deathly faint, and knew I needed food.
I gave directions for the disposition of some remaining articles, and for closing the house,
then walked rapidly towards the public-house in the village, where my trunks had already been
carried. I was very glad that I should not have to pass the Woods'. I saw the girls out in
their garden just before I left, and took a last long look, but was sorry I did; it did me no good.

I was to go to Boston in the stage, and then take a vessel to New York, whence I might sail
for any part of the world. When I arrived at the tavern, the Boston stage was just in, and
the driver handed me a letter. It was from the mate of the vessel, saying that his sailing
would be delayed two days, and requesting me to take a message from him to his family, who
lived in a small village six miles back from what was called the stage-road. I went on horseback,
performed my errand, dined with the family, and returned at dark to the inn. After supper,
it occurred to me to go to the Woods' and surprise them. I wanted to see just what they were
doing, and just how they looked,--just how she looked. But a moment's reflection convinced
me that I had much better not. But be quiet I could not, and I strolled out of the back-door
of the inn, and so into a wide field behind. There was a moon, but swift dark clouds were flying
across it, causing alternate light and shadow. I strayed on through field and meadow, hardly
knowing whither I went, yet with a half-consciousness that I should find myself at the end
by my mother's grave. I felt, therefore, no surprise when I saw that I was approaching, through
a field at the back of my garden, the old elm-tree. As I drew near the grave, the moon, appearing
from behind a cloud, showed me the form of a woman leaning against the tree. She wore no bonnet,--nothing
but a shawl thrown over her head. Her face was turned from me, but I knew those features, even
in the indistinct moonlight, and my heart gave a sudden leap, as I pressed eagerly forward.
She turned in affright, half screamed, half ran, then, recognizing me, remained still as a statue.

"Mr. Allen, you here? I thought you were gone," she said, at last.

"Jane, you here?" said I. "You ought not; the night is damp; you will get sick."

Nevertheless, I went on talking, told what had detained me, described my journey and visit,
and inquired after her family, as if I had been a month absent. I never talked so easily before;
for I knew she was not looking in my face, and forgot how my voice might betray me. I spoke
of my mother, of how much she was to me, of my utter loneliness, and even of my plans for the
future.

"But I am keeping you too long," I exclaimed, at last; "this evening air is bad; you must go home."

I walked along with her, up through the garden, and along the road towards her house. I did
not offer my arm, for I dared not trust myself so near. The evening wind was cool, and I took
off my hat to let it blow upon my forehead, for my head was hot and my brain in a whirl. We
came to a stop at the gate, beneath an apple-tree, then in full bloom. I think now that my
mind at that time was not--exactly sound. The severe mental discipline which I had forced upon
myself, the long striving to subdue the strongest feelings of a man's heart, together with
my real heart-grief at my mother's death, were enough, certainly, to craze any one. I was crazy;
for I only meant to say "Good-bye," but I said, "Good-bye, Jane; I would give the world to
stay, but I must go." I thought I was going to take her hand; but, instead of that, I took
her face between my own two hands, and turned it up towards mine. First I kissed her cheeks.
"That is for the pink," I said. Then her eyes. "And that is for the blue. And now I go. You
won't care, will you, Jane, that I kissed you? I shall never trouble you any more; you know
you will never see me again. Good-bye, Jane!"

I grasped her hand tightly and turned away. I thought I was off, but she did not let go my
hand. I paused, as if to hear what she had to say. She had hitherto spoken but little; she
had no need, for I had talked with all the rapidity of insanity. She tried to speak now, but
her voice was husky, and she almost whispered.

"Why do you go?" she asked.

"Because I must, Jane," I replied. "I must go."

"And why must you go?" she asked.

"Oh, Jane, don't ask me why I must go; you wouldn't, if you knew"--

There I stopped. She spoke again. There was a strange tone in her voice, and I could feel that
she was trembling all over.

"Don't go, Henry."

Never before had she called me Henry, and this, together with her strong emotion and the desire
she expressed for me to stay, shot a bright thought of joy through my soul. It was the very
first moment that I had entertained the possibility of her caring for me. I seemed another
being. Strange thoughts flashed like lightning across my mind. My resolve was taken.

"Who cares whether I go or stay?" I asked.

"I care," said she.

I took both her hands in mine, and, looking full in her face, said, in a low voice,--

"Jane, how much do you care?"

"A whole heart full," she replied, in a voice as low and as earnest as my own.

She was leaning on the fence; I leaned back beside her, for I grew sick and faint, thinking
of the great joy that might be coming.

"Jane," said I, solemnly, "you wouldn't marry me, would you?"

"Certainly not," she replied. "How can I, when you have never asked me?"

"Jane," said I, and my voice sounded strange even to myself, "I hope you are not trifling;--you
never would dare, did you know the state I am in, that I have been in for--oh, so long! But
I can't have hidden all my love. Can't you see how my life almost is hanging upon your answer?
Jane, do you love me, and will you be my wife?"

"Henry," she replied, softly, but firmly, "I do love you. I have loved you a long, long time,
and I shall be proud to be your wife, if--you think me worthy."

It was more than I could bear. The sleepless nights, the days of almost entire fasting, together
with all my troubles, had been too much for me. I was weak in body and in mind.

"Oh, Jane!" was all I could say. Then, leaning my head upon her shoulder, I cried like a child.
It didn't seem childish then.

"Oh, but, Henry, I won't, then, if you feel so badly about it," said she, half laughing. Then,
changing her tone, she begged me to become calm. But in vain. The barriers were broken down,
and the tide of emotion, long suppressed, must gush forth. She evidently came to this conclusion.
She stood quiet and silent, and at last began timidly stroking my hair. I shall never forget
the first touch of her hand upon my forehead. It soothed me, or else my emotion was spent;
for, after a while, I became quite still.

"Oh, Jane," I whispered, "my sorrow I could bear; but this strange happiness overwhelms me.
Can it be true? Oh, it is a fearful thing to be so happy! How came you to love me, Jane? You
are so beautiful, and I--I am so"----

"You are so good, Henry!" she exclaimed, earnestly,--"too good for me! You are a true-hearted,
noble soul, worthy the love of any woman. If you weren't so bashful," she continued, in a lower
tone, "I should not say so much; but--do you suppose nobody is happy but yourself? There is
somebody who scarcely more than an hour ago was weeping bitter tears, feeling that the greatest
joy of her life was gone forever. But now her joy has returned to her, her heart is glad, she
trembles with happiness. Oh, Henry, 'it is a fearful thing to be so happy!'"

I could not answer; so I drew her close up to me. She was mine now, and why should I not press
her closely to my heart,--that heart so brimful of love for her? There was a little bench at
the foot of the apple-tree, and there I made her sit down by me and answer the many eager questions
I had to ask. I forgot all about the dampness and the evening air. She told how her mother
had liked me from the first,--how they were informed, by some few acquaintances they had made
in the village, of my early disappointment, and also of the peculiar state of mind into which
I was thrown by those early troubles; but when she began to love me she couldn't tell. She
had often thought I cared for her,--mentioned the day when I found her at my mother's bedside,
also the day of the funeral; but so well had I controlled my feelings that she was never sure
until that night.

"I trust you will not think me unmaidenly, Henry," said she, looking timidly up in my face.
"You won't think worse of me, will you, for--for almost offering myself to you?"

There was but one answer to this, and I failed not to give it. 'Twas a very earnest answer,
and she drew back a little. Her voice grew lower and lower, while she told how, at my shaking
hands the night before, she almost fainted,--how she longed to say "Stay," but dared not, for
I was so stiff and cold: how could she say, "Don't go, Mr. Allen; please stay and marry me"?--how
she passed a wretched night and day, and walked out at evening to be alone,--how she felt that
she could go nowhere but to my mother's grave,--and, finally, how overwhelmed with joy she
was when I came upon her so suddenly.

All this she told me, speaking softly and slowly, for which I was thankful; for I liked to
feel the sweet words of healing, dropping one by one upon my heart.

In the midst of our talk, we heard the front-door of the house open.

"They are coming to look for me," said Jane. "You will go in?"

Hand in hand we walked up the pathway. We met Ellen half-way down. She started with surprise
at seeing me.

"Why, Mr. Allen!" she exclaimed, "I thought you a hundred miles off. Why, Jane, mother was
afraid you had fallen down the well."

She tripped gayly into the house.

"Mother!" she called out,--"you sent me for one, and I have brought you two."

Jane and I walked in hand in hand; for I would not let her go. Her mother looked surprised,
but well pleased.

"Mrs. Wood," said I, "Jane has asked me to stay, and I am going to."

Nothing more was needed; our faces told the rest.

"Now Heaven be praised," she replied, "that we are still to have you with us! I could not help
thinking, that, if you only knew how much we cared for you, you would not have been in such
a hurry to leave us." And she glanced significantly towards Jane.

The rest of the evening was spent in the most interesting explanations. I passed the night
at the village inn, as I had intended,--passed it, not in sleep, but in planning and replanning,
and in trying to persuade myself that "Pink and Blue" was my own to keep.

The next day I spent at the Woods'. It was the first really happy day of my life. In the afternoon,
I took a long walk with Jane, through green lanes, and orchards white and fragrant with blossoms.
In the evening, the family assembled, and we held sweet council together. It was decided unanimously,
that, situated as I was, there was no reason for delaying the wedding,--that I should repossess
myself of the furniture I had given away, by giving new in exchange, the old being dearer to
both Jane and myself,--and, finally, that our wedding should be very quiet, and should take
place as soon as Jane could be got ready. Through it all I sat like one in a dream, assenting
to everything, for everything seemed very desirable.

As soon as possible, I reopened my house, and established myself there with the same little
servant. It took Jane about a month to get ready, and it took me some years to feel wholly
my own happiness.

The old house is still standing; but after Mrs. Wood died, and Ellen was married, we moved
into the village; for the railroad came very near us, cutting right through the path "across
the field." I had the bodies of my father and mother removed to the new cemetery.

My wife has been to me a lifelong blessing, my heart's joy and comfort. They who have not tried
it can never know how much love there is in a woman's heart. The pink still lingers on her
cheek, and her blue eye has that same expression which so bewitched me in my younger days.
The spell has never been broken. I am an old man and she is an old woman, and, though I don't
do it before folks, lest they call us two old fools, yet, when I come in and find her all alone,
I am free to own that I do hug and kiss her, and always mean to. If anybody is inclined to
laugh, let him just come and see how beautiful she is.

Our sons are away now, and all our daughters are married but one. I'm glad they haven't taken
her,--she looks so much as her mother did when I first knew her. Her name is Jane Wood Allen.
She goes in the village by the name of Jennie Allen; but I like Jane better,--Jane Wood.

That is a true account of "How I won my wife."

POMEGRANATE-FLOWERS.

  The street was narrow, close, and dark,
  And flanked with antique masonry,
  The shelving eaves left for an ark
  But one long strip of summer sky.
  But one long line to bless the eye--
  The thin white cloud lay not so high,
  Only some brown bird, skimming nigh,
  From wings whence all the dew was dry
  Shook down a dream of forest scents,
  Of odorous blooms and sweet contents,
  Upon the weary passers-by.

  Ah, few but haggard brows had part
  Below that street's uneven crown,
  And there the murmurs of the mart
  Swarmed faint as hums of drowsy noon.
  With voices chiming in quaint tune
  From sun-soaked hulls long wharves adown,
  The singing sailors rough and brown
  Won far melodious renown,
  Here, listening children ceasing play,
  And mothers sad their well-a-way,
  In this old breezy sea-board town.

  Ablaze on distant banks she knew,
  Spreading their bowls to catch the sun,
  Magnificent Dutch tulips grew
  With pompous color overrun.
  By light and snow from heaven won
  Their misty web azaleas spun;
  Low lilies pale as any nun,
  Their pensile bells rang one by one;
  And spicing all the summer air
  Gold honeysuckles everywhere
  Their trumpets blew in unison.

  Than where blood-cored carnations stood
  She fancied richer hues might be,
  Scents rarer than the purple hood
  Curled over in the fleur-de-lis.
  Small skill in learned names had she,
  Yet whatso wealth of land or sea
  Had ever stored her memory,
  She decked its varied imagery
  Where, in the highest of the row
  Upon a sill more white than snow,
  She nourished a pomegranate-tree.

  Some lover from a foreign clime,
  Some roving gallant of the main,
  Had brought it on a gay spring-time,
  And told her of the nacar stain
  The thing would wear when bloomed again.
  Therefore all garden growths in vain
  Their glowing ranks swept through her brain,
  The plant was knit by subtile chain
  To all the balm of Southern zones,
  The incenses of Eastern thrones,
  The tinkling hem of Aaron's train.

  The almond shaking in the sun
  On some high place ere day begin,
  Where winds of myrrh and cinnamon
  Between the tossing plumes have been,
  It called before her, and its kin
  The fragrant savage balaustine
  Grown from the ruined ravelin
  That tawny leopards couch them in;
  But this, if rolling in from seas
  It only caught the salt-fumed breeze,
  Would have a grace they might not win.

  And for the fruit that it should bring,
  One globe she pictured, bright and near,
  Crimson, and throughly perfuming
  All airs that brush its shining sphere.
  In its translucent atmosphere
  Afrite and Princess reappear,--
  Through painted panes the scattered spear
  Of sunrise scarce so warm and clear,--
  And pulped with such a golden juice,
  Ambrosial, that one cannot choose
  But find the thought most sumptuous cheer.

  Of all fair women she was queen,
  And all her beauty, late and soon,
  O'ercame you like the mellow sheen
  Of some serene autumnal noon.
  Her presence like a sweetest tune
  Accorded all your thoughts in one.
  Than last year's alder-tufts in June
  Browner, yet lustrous as a moon
  Her eyes glowed on you, and her hair
  With such an air as princes wear
  She trimmed black-braided in a crown.

  A perfect peace prepared her days,
  Few were her wants and small her care,
  No weary thoughts perplexed her ways,
  She hardly knew if she were fair.

  Bent lightly at her needle there
  In that small room stair over stair,
  All fancies blithe and debonair
  She deftly wrought on fabrics rare,
  All clustered moss, all drifting snow,
  All trailing vines, all flowers that blow,
  Her daedal fingers laid them bare.

  Still at the slowly spreading leaves
  She glanced up ever and anon,
  If yet the shadow of the eaves
  Had paled the dark gloss they put on.
  But while her smile like sunlight shone,
  The life danced to such blossom blown
  That all the roses ever known,
  Blanche of Provence, Noisette, or Yonne,
  Wore no such tint as this pale streak
  That damasked half the rounding cheek
  Of each bud great to bursting grown.

  And when the perfect flower lay free,
  Like some great moth whose gorgeous wings
  Fan o'er the husk unconsciously,
  Silken, in airy balancings,--
  She saw all gay dishevellings
  Of fairy flags, whose revellings
  Illumine night's enchanted rings.
  So royal red no blood of kings
  She thought, and Summer in the room
  Sealed her escutcheon on their bloom,
  In the glad girl's imaginings.

  Now, said she, in the heart of the woods
  The sweet south-winds assert their power,
  And blow apart the snowy snoods
  Of trilliums in their thrice-green bower.
  Now all the swamps are flushed with dower
  Of viscid pink, where, hour by hour,
  The bees swim amorous, and a shower
  Reddens the stream where cardinals tower.
  Far lost in fern of fragrant stir
  Her fancies roam, for unto her
  All Nature came in this one flower.

  Sometimes she set it on the ledge
  That it might not be quite forlorn
  Of wind and sky, where o'er the edge,
  Some gaudy petal, slowly borne,
  Fluttered to earth in careless scorn,
  Caught, for a fallen piece of morn
  From kindling vapors loosely shorn,
  By urchins ragged and wayworn,
  Who saw, high on the stone embossed,
  A laughing face, a hand that tossed
  A prodigal spray just freshly torn.

  What wizard hints across them fleet,--
  These heirs of all the town's thick sin,
  Swift gypsies of the tortuous street,
  With childhood yet on cheek and chin!
  What voices dropping through the din
  An airy murmuring begin,--
  These floating flakes, so fine and thin,
  Were they and rock-laid earth akin?
  Some woman of the gods was she,
  The generous maiden in her glee?
  And did whole forests grow within?

  A tissue rare as the hoar-frost,
  White as the mists spring dawns condemn,
  The shadowy wrinkles round her lost,
  She wrought with branch and anadem,
  Through the fine meshes netting them,
  Pomegranate-flower and leaf and stem.
  Dropping it o'er her diadem
  To float below her gold-stitched hem,
  Some duchess through the court should sail
  Hazed in the cloud of this white veil,
  As when a rain-drop mists a gem.

  Her tresses once when this was done,
 --Vanished the skein, the needle bare,--
  She dressed with wreaths vermilion
  Bright as a trumpet's dazzling blare.
  Nor knew that in Queen Dido's hair,
  Loading the Carthaginian air,
  Ancestral blossoms flamed as fair
  As any ever hanging there.
  While o'er her cheek their scarlet gleam
  Shot down a vivid varying beam,
  Like sunshine on a brown-bronzed pear.

  And then the veil thrown over her,
  The vapor of the snowy lace
  Fell downward, as the gossamer
  Tossed from the autumn winds' wild race
  Falls round some garden-statue's grace.
  Beneath, the blushes on her face
  Fled with the Naiad's shifting chase
  When flashing through a watery space.
  And in the dusky mirror glanced
  A splendid phantom, where there danced
  All brilliances in paler trace.

  A spicery of sweet perfume,
  As if from regions rankly green
  And these rich hoards of bud and bloom,
  Lay every waft of air between.
  Out of some heaven's unfancied screen
  The gorgeous vision seemed to lean.
  The Oriental kings have seen
  Less beauty in their daïs-queen,
  And any limner's pencil then
  Had drawn the eternal love of men,
  But twice Chance will not intervene.

  For soon with scarce a loving sigh
  She lifts it off half unaware,
  While through the clinging folds held high,
  Arachnean in a silver snare
  Her rosy fingers nimbly fare,
  Till gathered square with dainty care.
  But still she leaves the flowery flare
 --Such as Dame Venus' self might wear--
  Where first she placed them, since they blow
  More bounteous color hanging so,
  And seem more native to the air.

  Anon the mellow twilight came
  With breath of quiet gently freed
  From sunset's felt but unseen flame.
  Then by her casement wheeled in speed
  Strange films, and half the wings indeed
  That steam in rainbows o'er the mead,
  Now magnified in mystery, lead
  Great revolutions to her heed.
  And leaning out, the night o'erhead,
  Wind-tossed in many a shining thread,
  Hung one long scarf of glittering brede.

  Then as it drew its streamers there,
  And furled its sails to fill and flaunt
  Along fresh firmaments of air
  When ancient morn renewed his chant,--
  She sighed in thinking on the plant
  Drooping so languidly aslant;
  Fancied some fierce noon's forest-haunt
  Where wild red things loll forth and pant,
  Their golden antlers wave, and still
  Sigh for a shower that shall distil
  The largess gracious nights do grant.

  The oleanders in the South
  Drape gray hills with their rose, she thought,
  The yellow-tasselled broom through drouth
  Bathing in half a heaven is caught.
  Jasmine and myrtle flowers are sought
  By winds that leave them fragrance-fraught.
  To them the wild bee's path is taught,
  The crystal spheres of rain are brought,
  Beside them on some silent spray
  The nightingales sing night away,
  The darkness wooes them in such sort.

  But this, close shut beneath a roof,
  Knows not the night, the tranquil spell,
  The stillness of the wildwood ouphe,
  The magic dropped on moor and fell.
  No cool dew soothes its fiery shell,
  Nor any star, a red sardel,
  Swings painted there as in a well.
  Dyed like a stream of muscadel
  No white-skinned snake coils in its cup
  To drink its soul of sweetness up,
  A honeyed hermit in his cell.

  No humming-bird in emerald coat,
  Shedding the light, and bearing fain
  His ebon spear, while at his throat
  The ruby corselet sparkles plain,
  On wings of misty speed astain
  With amber lustres, hangs amain,
  And tireless hums his happy strain;
  Emperor of some primeval reign,
  Over the ages sails to spill
  The luscious juice of this, and thrill
  Its very heart with blissful pain.

  As if the flowers had taken flight
  Or as the crusted gems should shoot
  From hidden hollows, or as the light
  Had blossomed into prisms to flute
  Its secret that before was mute,
  Atoms where fire and tint dispute,
  No humming-birds here hunt their fruit.
  No burly bee with banded suit
  Here dusts him, no full ray by stealth
  Sifts through it stained with warmer wealth
  Where fair fierce butterflies salute.

  Nor night nor day brings to my tree,
  She thought, the free air's choice extremes,
  But yet it grows as joyfully
  And floods my chamber with its beams,
  So that some tropic land it seems
  Where oranges with ruddy gleams,
  And aloes, whose weird flowers the creams
  Of long rich centuries one deems,
  Wave through the softness of the gloom,--
  And these may blush a deeper bloom
  Because they gladden so my dreams.

  The sudden street-lights in moresque
  Broke through her tender murmuring,
  And on her ceiling shades grotesque
  Reeled in a bacchanalian swing.
  Then all things swam, and like a ring
  Of bubbles welling from a spring
  Breaking in deepest coloring
  Flower-spirits paid her minist'ring.
  Sleep, fusing all her senses, soon
  Fanned over her in drowsy rune
  All night long a pomegranate wing.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRAIRIE STATE.

On the head-waters of the Wabash, near Lake Erie, we first meet with those grassy plains to
which the early French explorers of the West gave the name of Prairies. In Southern Michigan,
they become more frequent; in the State of Indiana, still more so; and when we arrive in Illinois,
we find ourselves in the Prairie State proper, three-quarters of its territory being open meadow,
or prairie. Southern Wisconsin is partly of this character, and, on crossing the Mississippi,
most of the surface of both Iowa and Minnesota is also prairie.

Illinois, with little exception, is one vast prairie,--dotted, it is true, with groves, and
intersected with belts of timber, but still one great open plain. This State, then, being the
type of the prairie lands, a sketch of its history, political, physical, and agricultural,
will tolerably well represent that of the whole prairie region.

The State of Illinois was originally part of Florida, and belonged to Spain, by the usual tenure
of European title in the sixteenth century, when the King of France or Spain was endowed by
His Holiness with half a continent; the rights of the occupants of the soil never for a moment
being considered. So the Spaniard, in 1541, having planted his flag at the mouth of the Mississippi,
became possessed of the whole of the vast region watered by its tributary streams, and Illinois
and Wisconsin became Spanish colonies, and all their native inhabitants vassals of His Most
Catholic Majesty. The settlement of the country was, however, never attempted by the Spaniards,
who devoted themselves to their more lucrative colonies in South America.

The French missionaries and fur-traders found their way from Canada into these parts at an
early day; and in 1667 Robert de la Salle made his celebrated explorations, in which he took
possession of the territory of Illinois in behalf of the French crown. And here we may remark,
that the relations of the Jesuits and early explorers give a delightful picture of the native
inhabitants of the prairies. Compared with their savage neighbors, the Illini seem to have
been a favored people. The climate was mild, and the soil so fertile as to afford liberal returns
even to their rude husbandry; the rivers and lakes abounded in fish and fowl; the groves swarmed
with deer and turkeys,--bustards the French called them, after the large gallinaceous bird
which they remembered on the plains of Normandy; and the vast expanse of the prairies was blackened
by herds of wild cattle, or buffaloes. The influence of this fair and fertile land seems to
have been felt by its inhabitants. They came to meet Father Marquette, offering the calumet,
brilliant with many-colored plumes, with the gracious greeting,--"How beautiful is the sun,
O Frenchman, when thou comest to us! Thou shalt enter in peace all our dwellings." A very different
reception from that offered by the stern savages of Jamestown and Plymouth to John Smith and
Miles Standish! So, in peace and plenty, remained for many years this paradise in the prairies.

About the year 1700, Illinois was included in Louisiana, and came under the sway of Louis XIV.,
who, in 1712, presented to Anthony Crozat the whole territory of Louisiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin,--a
truly royal gift!

The fortunate recipient, however, having spent vast sums upon the territory without any returns,
surrendered his grant to the crown a few years afterwards; and a trading company, called the
Company of the Indies, was got up by the famous John Law, on the basis of these lands. The
history of that earliest of Western land-speculations is too well known to need repetition;
suffice it to say, that it was conducted upon a scale of magnificence in comparison with which
our modern imitations in 1836 and 1856 were feeble indeed. A monument of it stood not many
years ago upon the banks of the Mississippi, in the ruins of Fort Chartres, which was built
by Law when at the height of his fortune, at a cost of several millions of livres, and which
toppled over into the river in a recent inundation.

In 1759 the French power in North America was broken forever by Wolfe, upon the Plains of Abraham;
and in 1763, by the Treaty of Paris, all the French possessions upon this continent were ceded
to England, and the territory of the Illinois became part of the British empire.

Pontiac, the famous Ottawa chief, after fighting bravely on the French side through the war,
refused to be transferred with the territory; he repaired to Illinois, where he was killed
by a Peoria Indian. His tribe, the Ottawas, with their allies, the Pottawattomies and Chippewas,
in revenge, made war upon the Peorias and their confederates, the Kaskaskias and Cahoklas,
in which contest these latter tribes were nearly exterminated.

At this time, the French population of Illinois amounted to about three thousand persons, who
were settled along the Mississippi and Illinois rivers, where their descendants remain to this
day, preserving a well-defined national character in the midst of the great flood of Anglo-American
immigration which rolls around them.

Illinois remained under British rule till the year 1778, when George Rogers Clarke, with four
companies of Virginia rangers, marched from Williamsburg, a distance of thirteen hundred miles,
through a hostile wilderness, captured the British posts of Kaskaskia and Cahokia, and annexed
a territory larger than Great Britain to the new Republic. Many of Colonel Clarke's rangers,
pleased with the beauty and fertility of the country, settled in Illinois; but the Indians
were so numerous and hostile, that the settlers were obliged to live in fortified stations,
or block-houses, and the population remained very scanty for many years.

In 1809 Illinois was made into a separate Territory, and Ninian Edwards appointed its first
Governor.

During the War of 1812, Tecumseh, an Indian chief of remarkable ability, endeavored to form
a coalition of all the tribes against the Americans, but with only partial success. He inflicted
severe losses upon them, but was finally defeated and slain at the Battle of the Thames, leaving
behind him the reputation of being the greatest hero and noblest patriot of his race.

In 1818, Illinois, then having a population of about forty-five thousand, was admitted into
the Union. The State was formed out of that territory which by the Ordinance of 1787 was dedicated
to freedom; but there was a strong party in the State who wished for the introduction of slavery,
and in order to effect this it was necessary to call a convention to amend the Constitution.
On this arose a desperate contest between the two principles, and it ended in the triumph of
freedom. Among those opposed to the introduction of slavery were Morris Birkbeck, Governor
Coles, David Blackwell, Judge Lockwood, and Daniel P. Cook. It was a fitting memorial of the
latter, that the County of Cook, containing the great commercial city of Chicago, should bear
his name. The names of the pro-slavery leaders we will leave to oblivion.

In 1824 the lead mines near Galena began to be worked to advantage, and thousands of persons
from Southern Illinois and Missouri swarmed thither. The Illinoisans ran up the river in the
spring, worked in the mines during the summer, and returned to their homes down the river in
the autumn,--thus resembling in their migrations the fish so common in the Western waters,
called the Sucker. It was also observed that great hordes of uncouth ruffians came up to the
mines from Missouri, and it was therefore said that she had vomited forth all her worst population.
Thenceforth the Missourians were called "Pukes," and the people of Illinois "Suckers."

From 1818 to 1830, the commerce of the State made but small progress. At this time, there were
one or two small steamboats upon the Illinois River, but most of the navigation was carried
on in keel-boats. The village merchants were mere retailers; they purchased no produce, except
a few skins and furs, and a little beeswax and honey. The farmers along the rivers did their
own shipping,--building flat-boats, which, having loaded with corn, flour, and bacon, they
would float down to New Orleans, which was the only market accessible to them. The voyage was
long, tedious, and expensive, and when the farmer arrived, he found himself in a strange city,
where all were combined against him, and often he was cheated out of his property,--returning
on foot by a long and dangerous journey to a desolate farm, which had been neglected during
his absence. Thus two crops were sometimes lost in taking one to market.

The manners and customs of the people were simple and primitive. The costume of the men was
a raccoon-skin cap, linsey hunting-shirt, buck-skin leggings and moccasons, with a butcher-knife
in the belt. The women wore cotton or woollen frocks, striped with blue dye and Turkey-red,
and spun, woven, and made with their own hands; they went barefooted and bareheaded, except
on Sundays, when they covered the head with a cotton handkerchief. It is told of a certain
John Grammar, for many years a representative from Union County, and a man of some note in
the State councils, though he could neither read nor write, that in 1816, when he was first
elected, lacking the necessary apparel, he and his sons gathered a large quantity of hazel-nuts,
which they took to the nearest town and sold for enough blue strouding to make a suit of clothes.
The pattern proved to be scanty, and the women of the household could only get out a very bob-tailed
coat and leggings. With these Mr. Grammar started for Kaskaskia, the seat of government, and
these he continued to wear till the passage of an appropriation bill enabled him to buy a civilized
pair of breeches.

The distinctions in manners and dress between the higher and lower classes were more marked
than at present; for while John Grammar wore blue strouding, we are told that Governor Edwards
dressed in fine broadcloth, white-topped boots, and a gold-laced cloak, and rode about the
country in a fine carriage, driven by a negro.

In those days justice was administered without much parade or ceremony. The judges held their
courts mostly in log houses or in the bar-rooms of taverns, fitted up with a temporary bench
for the judge, and chairs for the lawyers and jurors. At the first Circuit Court in Washington
County, held by Judge John Reynolds, the sheriff, on opening the court, went out into the yard,
and said to the people, "Boys, come in; our John is going to hold court." The judges were unwilling
to decide questions of law, preferring to submit everything to the jury, and seldom gave them
instructions, if they could avoid it. A certain judge, being ambitious to show his learning,
gave very pointed directions to the jury, but they could not agree on a verdict. The judge
asked the cause of their difference, when the foreman answered with great simplicity,--"Why,
Judge, this 'ere's the difficulty: the jury wants to know whether that 'ar what you told us,
when we went out, was r'aly the law, or whether it was on'y jist your notion."

In the spring of 1831, Black Hawk, a Sac chief, dissatisfied with the treaty by which his tribe
had been removed across the Mississippi, recrossed the river at the head of three or four hundred
warriors, and drove away the white settlers from his old lands near the mouth of the Rock River.
This was considered an invasion of the State, and Governor Reynolds called for volunteers.
Fifteen hundred men answered the summons, and the Indians were driven out. The next spring,
however, Black Hawk returned with a larger force, and commenced hostilities by killing some
settlers on Indian Creek, not far from Ottawa. A large force of volunteers was again called
out, but in the first encounter the whites were beaten, which success encouraged the Sacs and
Foxes so much that they spread themselves over the whole of the country between the Mississippi
and the Lake, and kept up a desultory warfare for three or four months against the volunteer
troops. About the middle of July, a body of volunteers under General Henry of Illinois pursued
the Indians into Wisconsin, and by forced marches brought them to action near the Mississippi,
before the United States troops, under General Atkinson, could come up. The Indians fought
desperately, but were unable to stand long before the courage and superior numbers of the whites.
They escaped across the river with the loss of nearly three hundred, killed in the action,
or drowned in the retreat. The loss of the Illinois volunteers was about thirty, killed and
wounded.

This defeat entirely broke the power of the Sacs and Foxes, and they sued for peace. Black
Hawk, and some of his head men, were taken prisoners, and kept in confinement for several months,
when, after a tour through the country, to show them the numbers and power of the whites, they
were set at liberty on the west side of the Mississippi. In 1840 Black Hawk died, at the age
of eighty years, on the banks of the great river which he loved so well.

After the Black-Hawk War, the Indian title being extinguished, and the country open to settlers,
Northern Illinois attracted great attention, and increased wonderfully in wealth and population.

In 1830, the population of the State amounted to 157,445; in 1840, to 476,183; in 1850, to
851,470; in 1860, to 1,719,496.

       *       *       *       *       *

Situated in the centre of the United States, the State of Illinois extends from 37° to 42°
30' N. latitude, and from 10° 47' to 14° 26' W. longitude from Washington. The State is 378
miles long from North to South, and 212 miles broad from East to West. Its area is computed
at 55,408 square miles, or 35,459,200 acres, less than two millions of which are called swamp
lands, the remaining thirty-three millions being tillable land of unsurpassed fertility.

The State of Illinois forms the lower part of that slope which embraces the greater part of
Indiana, and of which Lake Michigan, with its shores, forms the upper part. At the lowest part
of this slope, and of the State, is the city of Cairo, situated about 350 feet above the level
of the Gulf of Mexico, at the confluence of the Ohio and the Mississippi; hence, the highest
place in Illinois being only 800 feet above the level of the sea, it will appear that the whole
State, though containing several hilly sections, is a pretty level plain, being, with the exception
of Delaware and Louisiana, the flattest country in the Union.

The State contains about twenty-five considerable streams, and brooks and rivulets innumerable.
There are no large lakes within its borders, though it has some sixty miles of Lake Michigan
for its boundary on the east. Small clear lakes and ponds abound, particularly in the northern
portion of the State.

As to the quality of the soil, Illinois is divided as follows:--

First, the alluvial land on the margins of the rivers, and extending back from half a mile
to six or eight miles. This soil is of extraordinary fertility, and, wherever it is elevated,
makes the best farming land in the State. Where it is low, and exposed to inundations, it is
very unsafe to attempt its cultivation. The most extensive tract of this kind is the so-called
American Bottom, which received this name when it was the western boundary of the United States.
It extends from the junction of the Kaskaskia and Mississippi, along the latter, to the mouth
of the Missouri, containing about 288,000 acres.

Secondly, the table-land, fifty to a hundred feet higher than the alluvial; it consists principally
of prairies, which, according to their respectively higher or lower situations, are either
dry or marshy.

Thirdly, the hilly sections of the State, which, consisting alternately of wood and prairie,
are not, on the whole, as fertile as either the alluvial or the table-land.

There are no mountains in Illinois; but in the southern as well as the northern part, there
are a few hills. Near the banks of the principal rivers the ground is elevated into bluffs,
on which may be still found the traces left by water, which was evidently once much higher
than it now is; whence it is inferred, that, where the fertile plains of Illinois now extend,
there must once have been a vast sheet of water, the mud deposited by which formed the soil,
thus accounting for the great fertility of the prairies.

       *       *       *       *       *

As we have said, the entire area of Illinois seems at one period to have been an ocean-bed,
which has not since been disturbed by any considerable upheaval. The present irregularities
of the surface are clearly traceable to the washing out and carrying away of the earth. The
Illinois River has washed out a valley about two hundred and fifty feet deep, and from one
and a half to six miles wide. The perfect regularity of the beds of mountain limestone, sandstone,
and coal, as they are found protruding from the bluffs on each side of this valley, on the
same levels, is pretty conclusive evidence that the valley itself owes its existence to the
action of water. That the channels of the rivers have been gradually sunken, we may distinctly
see by the shores of the Upper Mississippi, where are walls of rock, rising perpendicularly,
which extend from Lake Pepin to below the mouth of the Wisconsin, as if they were walls built
of equal height by the hand of man. Wherever the river describes a curve, walls may be found
on the convex side of it.

The upper coal formation occupies three-fifths of the State, commencing at 41° 12' North latitude,
where, as also along the Mississippi, whose banks it touches between the places of its junction
with the Illinois and Missouri rivers, it is enclosed by a narrow layer of calcareous coal.
The shores of Lake Michigan, and that narrow strip of land, which, commencing near them, runs
along the northern bank of the Illinois towards its southwestern bend, until it meets Rock
River at its mouth, belong to the Devonian system. The residue of the northern part of the
State consists of Silurian strata, which, containing the rich lead mines of Galena in the northwest
corner of the State, rise at intervals into conical hills, giving the landscape a character
different from that of the middle or southern portion. Scattered along the banks of rivers,
and in the middle of prairies, are frequently found large masses of granite and other primitive
rocks. Since the nearest beds of primitive rocks first appear in Minnesota and the northern
part of Wisconsin, their presence here can be accounted for only by assuming that at the time
this region was covered with water they were floated down from the North, enclosed and supported
in masses of ice, which, melting, allowed the rocks to sink to the bottom. A still further
proof of the presence of the ocean here in former times is to be found in the sea-shells which
occur upon many of the higher knolls and bluffs west of the Mississippi in Iowa.

Illinois contains probably more coal than any other State in the Union. It is mined at a small
depth below the surface, and crops out upon the banks of most of the streams in the middle
of the State. These mines have been very imperfectly worked till within a few years; but it
is found, that, as the work goes deeper, the quality of the coal improves, and in some of the
later excavations is equal to the best coals of Ohio and Pennsylvania, and will undoubtedly
prove a source of immense wealth to the State.

The two northwestern counties of the State form a part of the richest and most extensive lead
region in the world. During the year 1855, the product of these mines, shipped from the single
port of Galena, was 430,365 pigs of lead, worth $1,732,219.02.

Copper has been found in large quantities in the northern counties, and also in the southern
portion of the State. Some of the zinc ores are found in great quantities at the lead mines
near Galena, but have not yet been utilized. Silver has been found in St. Clair County, whence
Silver Creek has derived its name. It is said that in early times the French sunk a shaft here,
from which they obtained large quantities of the metal. Iron is found in many parts of the
State, and the ores have been worked to considerable extent.

Among other valuable mineral products may be mentioned porcelain and potter's clay, fire clay,
fuller's earth, limestone of many varieties, sandstone, marble, and salt springs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illinois has an average temperature, which, if compared with that of Europe, corresponds to
that of Middle Germany; its winters are more severe than those of Copenhagen, and its summers
as warm as those of Milan or Palermo. Compared with other States of the Union, Northern Illinois
possesses a temperature similar to that of Southern New York, while the temperature of Southern
Illinois will not differ much from that of Kentucky or Virginia. By observations of the thermometer
during twenty years, in the southern part of the State, on the Mississippi, the mercury, once
in that period, fell to-25°, and four times it rose above 100°, Fahrenheit.

The prevailing winds are either western or southeastern. The severest storms are those coming
from the west, which traverse the entire space between the Rocky Mountains and the Atlantic
coast in forty-eight hours.

There are on an average eighty-nine rainy days in the year; the quantity of rain falling amounts
to forty-two inches,--the smallest amount being in January, and the largest in June. The average
number of thunder-storms in a year is forty-nine; of clear days, one hundred and thirty-seven;
of changeable days, one hundred and eighty-three; and of days without sunshine, forty-five.

       *       *       *       *       *

The vegetation of the State forms the connecting link between the Flora of the Northeastern
States and that of the Upper Mississippi,--exhibiting, besides the plants common to all the
States lying between the Mississippi and the Atlantic Ocean, such as are, properly speaking,
natives of the Western prairies, not being found east of the Alleghany Mountains. Immense grassy
plains, interlaced with groves, which are found also along the watercourses, cover two-thirds
of the entire area of the State in the North, while the southern part is garnished with heavy
timber.

No work which we have seen gives so good an account of the Flora of the prairies as the one
by Frederick Gerhard, called "Illinois as it is." We have been indebted to this work for a
good deal of valuable matter, and shall now make some further extracts from it.

"Before we finally turn our backs on the last scattered houses of the village, we find both
sides of the road lined with ugly worm-fences, which are overtopped by the various species
of Helianthus, Thistles, Biennial Gaura, and the Illinoisian Bell-flower with cerulean blossoms,
and other tall weeds. Here may also be found the coarse-haired Asclepias tuberosa, with fiery
red umbels, the strong-scented Monarda fistulosa, and an umbelliferous plant, the grass-like,
spiculated leaves of which recall to mind the Southern Agaves, the Eryngo. Among these children
of Nature rises the civilized plant, the Indian Corn, with its stalks nearly twelve feet high."

"Having now arrived at the end of the cultivated lands, we enter upon the dry prairies, extending
up the bluffs, where we meet the small vermilion Sorrel (Rumex acetosella) and Mouse-ear, which,
however, do not reside here as foreigners, but as natives, like many other plants that remind
the European of his native country, as, for instance, the Dandelion (Taraxacum officinale);
a kind of Rose, (Rosa lucida,) with its sweet-scented blossoms, has a great predilection for
this dry soil. With surprise we meet here also with many plants with hairy, greenish-gray leaves
and stalk-covers, as, for instance, the Onosmodium molle, Hieracium longipilum, Pycnanthemum
pilosum, Chrysopsis villosa, Amorpha canescens, Tephrosia Virginiana, Lithospermum canescens;
between which the immigrated Mullein (Verbuscum thapsus) may be found. The pebbly fragments
of the entire slope, which during spring-time were sparingly covered with dwarfish herbs, such
as the Androsace occidentalis, Draba Caroliniana, Plantago Virginica, Scutellaria parvula,
are now crowded with plants of taller growth and variegated blossoms. Rudbeckia hirta, with
its numerous radiating blossoms of a lively yellow, and the closely allied Echinacea purpurea,
whose long purple rays hang down from a ruddy hemispherical disc, are the most remarkable among
plants belonging to the genus Compositoe, which blossom early in summer; in the latter part
of summer follow innumerable plants of the different species,Liatris, Vernonia, Aster, Solidago,
Helianthus, etc."

"We approach a sinuous chasm of the bluffs, having better soil and underwood, which, thin at
first, increases gradually in density. Low bushes, hardly a foot high, are formed by the American
Thistle, (Ceanothus Americanus,) a plant whose leaves were used instead of tea, in Boston,
during the Revolution. Next follow the Hazel-bush, (Corylus Americana,) the fiery-red Castilleja
coccinea, and the yellow Canadian Louse-wort; the Dipteracanthus strepens, with great blue
funnel-shaped blossoms, and the Gerardia pedicularia, are fond of such places; and where the
bushes grow higher, and the Rhus glabra, Zanthoxylum Americanum, Ptelea trifoliata, Staphylea
trifolia, together with Ribes-Rubus Pyrus, Cornus, and Cratoegus, form an almost impenetrable
thicket, surrounded and garlanded by the round-leaved, rough Bindweed, (Smilax rotundifolia,)
and Dioscorea villosa, the Climbing Rose, (Rosa setigera,) Celastrus scandens, remarkable for
its beautiful red fruits, Clematis Virginiana, Polygonum, Convolvulus, and other vines, these
weedy herbs attempt to overtop the bushes."

"We now enter upon the illimitable prairie which lies before us, the fertile prairie, in whose
undulating surface the moisture is retained; this waits for cultivation, and will soon be deprived
of its flowery attire, and bear plain, but indispensable grain. Those who have not yet seen
such a prairie should not imagine it like a cultivated meadow, but rather a heaving sea of
tall herbs and plants, decking it with every variety of color.

"In the summer, the yellow of the large Composite will predominate, intermingled with the blue
of the Tradescantias, the fiery red of the Lilies, (Lilium Philadelphicum and Lilium Canadense,)
the purple of the Phlox, the white of the Cacalia tuberosa, Melanthium Virginicum, and the
umbelliferous plants. In spring, small-sized plants bloom here, such as the Anemone, with its
blue and white blossoms, the Palmated Violet, the Ranunculus, which are the first ornaments
of the prairies in spring; then follow the Esculent Sea-Onion, Pentaloplius longiflorus, Lithospermum
hirtum, Cynthia Virginica, and Baptisia leucophaea. As far as the eye reaches, no house nor
tree can be seen; but where civilization has come, the farmer has planted small rows of the
quickly growing Black Acacia, which affords shelter from the sun to his cattle and fuel for
his hearth."

"We now enter the level part of the forest, which has a rich black soil. Great sarmentous plants
climb here up to the tops of the trees: wild Grapes, the climbing, poisonous Sumach, (Rhus
toxicodendron,) and the vine-like Cinque-foil, which transforms withered, naked trunks into
green columns, Bignonias, with their brilliant scarlet trumpet-flowers, are the most remarkable.
The Thuja occidentalis, which may be met with in European gardens, stands in mournful solitude
on the margins of pools; here and there an isolalod Cedar, (Juniperus Virginiana) and the low
Box-tree, (Taxus Canadensis) are in Illinois the only representatives of the evergreens, forests
of which first appear in the northern part of Wisconsin and Minnesota."

"Flowers of the most brilliant hues bedeck the rivers' banks; above all, the Lobelia cardinalis
and Lobelia syphilitica, of the deepest carmine and cerulean tinge, the yellow Cassia Marilandica,
and the delicate Rosa blanda, a rose without thorns; also the Scrophularia nodosa."

"On the marshy ground thrive the Iris versicolor, Asclepias incarnata, the Primrose-tree, Liver-wort,
the tall Physostegia Virginiana, with rosy-red blossoms, and the Helenium autumnale, in which
the yellow color predominates. In spring, the dark violet blossom of the Amorpha fruticosa
diffuses its fragrance."

"Entering a boat on the river, where we cannot touch the bottom with the oar, we perceive a
little white flower waving to and fro, supported by long spiral halms between straight, grass-like
leaves. This is the Vallisneria spiralis, a remarkable plant, which may be also met with in
Southern Europe, especially in the Canal of Languedoc, and regarding the fructification of
which different opinions prevail."

"Nearer to the land, we observe similar grass-like leaves, but with little yellow stellated
flowers: these belong to the order of Schollera graminea. Other larger leaves belong to the
Amphibious Polygony, and different species of the Potamogeton, the ears of whose blossoms rise
curiously above the surface of the water. Clearing our way through a row of tall swamp weeds,
Zizania aquatica, Scirpus lacustris, Scirpus pungens, among which the white flowers of Sparganium
ramosum and Sagittaria variabilis are conspicuous, we steer into a large inlet entirely covered
with the broad leaves of the Nymphaea odorala and the Nelumbium luteum, of which the former
waves its beautiful flower on the surface of the river, while the latter, the queen, in fact,
of the waters, proudly raises her magnificent crown upon a perpendicular footstalk. On the
opposite bank, the evening breeze lifts the triangular leaves and rosy-red flowers of the Marsh-Mallow,
overhung by Gray Willows and the Silver-leaved Maple and the Red Maple, on which a flock of
white herons have alighted."

In all the rivers and swamps of the Northwest grows the Wild Rice, (Zizania aquatica,) a plant
which was' formerly very important to the Indians as food, and now attracts vast flocks of
waterfowl to feed upon it in the season. In autumn the squaws used to go in their canoes to
these natural rice-fields, and, bending the tall stalks over the gunwale, beat out the heads
of grain with their paddles into the canoe. It is mentioned among the dainties at Hiawatha's
wedding-feast:--

  "Haunch of deer, and hump of bison,
  Yellow cakes of the Momdamin,
  And the wild rice of the river."

The Fruits of the forest are Strawberries, Blackberries, Raspberries, Gooseberries, in some
barren spots Whortleberries, Mulberries, Grapes, Wild Plums and Cherries, Crab-Apples, the
Persimmon, Pawpaw, Hickory-nuts, Hazel-nuts, and Walnuts.

The Timber-trees are,--of the Oaks, Quercus alba, Quercus macrocarpa, Quercus tinctoria, Quercus
imbricaria,--Hard and Soft Maples,--and of the Hickories, Carya alba, Carya tomentosa, and
Carya amara. Other useful timber-trees are the Ash, Cherry, several species of Elm, Linden,
and Ironwood (Carpinus Americana).

Of Medicinal Plants, we find Cassia Marilandica, Polygala Senega, Sanguinaria Canadensis, Lobelia
inflata, Phytolacca decandra, Podophyllum peliatum, Sassafras officinale.

Various species of the Vine are native here, and the improved varieties succeed admirably in
the southern counties.

The early travellers in this region mention the great herds of wild cattle which roamed over
the prairies in those times, but the last Buffalo on the east side of the Mississippi was killed
in 1832; and now the hunter who would see this noble game must travel some hundreds of miles
west, to the head-waters of the Kansas or the Platte. The Elk, which was once so common in
Illinois, has also receded before the white man, and the Deer is fast following his congener.
On the great prairies south of Chicago, where, fifteen years ago, one might find twenty deer
in a day's tramp, not one is now to be seen. Two species of Hare occur here, and several Tree
Squirrels, the Red, Black, Gray, Mottled, and the Flying; besides these, there are two or three
which live under ground. The Beaver is nearly or quite extinct, but the Otter remains, and
the Musk-Rat abounds on all the river-banks and marshes.

Of carnivorous animals, we have the Panther and Black Bear in the wooded portions of the State,
though rare; the Lynx, the Gray and Black Wolf, and the Prairie Wolf; the Skunk, the Badger,
the Woodchuck, the Raccoon, and, in the southern part of the State, the Opossum.

Mr. Lapham of Wisconsin has published a list of the birds of that State, which will also answer
for Northern Illinois. He enumerates two hundred and ninety species, which, we think, is below
the number which visit the central parts of Illinois. From the central position of this State,
most of the birds of the United States are found here at one season or another. For instance,
among the rapacious birds, we have the three Eagles which visit America, the White-Headed,
the Washington, and the Golden or Royal Eagle. Of Hawks and Falcons, fourteen or fifteen species,
among which are the beautiful Swallow-tailed Hawk, and that noble falcon, the Peregrine. Ten
or twelve Owls, among which, as a rare visitor, we find the Great Gray Owl, (Syrnium cinereum,)
and the Snowy Owl, which is quite common in the winter season on the prairies, preying upon
grouse and hares. Of the Vultures, we have two, as summer visitors, the Turkey-Buzzard and
the Black Vulture.

Of omnivorous birds, sixteen or eighteen species, among which is the Raven, which here takes
the place of the Crow, the two species not being able to live together, as the stronger robber
drives away the weaker. Of the insectivorous birds, some sixty or seventy species are found
here, among which is the Mocking-Bird, in the middle and southern districts. Thirty-five to
forty species of granivorous birds, among which we occasionally find in winter that rare Arctic
bird, the Evening Grosbeak. Of the Zygodachyli, fourteen species, among which is found the
Paquet, in the southern part of the State. Tenuirostres, five species. Of the Kingfishers,
one species. Swallows and Goat-suckers, nine species. Of the Pigeons, two, the Turtle-Dove
and the Passenger Pigeon, of which the latter visit us twice a year, in immense flocks.

Of the gallinaceous birds, the Turkey, which is found in the heavy timber in the river bottoms;
the Quail, which has become very abundant all over the State, within twenty years, following,
it would seem, the march of civilization and settlement; the Ruffed Grouse, abundant in the
timber, but never seen on the prairie; the Pinnated Grouse, or Prairie Hen, always found on
the open plains. These birds increased very much in number after the settlement of the State,
owing probably to the increase of food for them, and the decrease of their natural enemies,
the prairie wolves; but since the building of railroads, so many are killed to supply the demands
of New York and other Eastern cities, that they are now decreasing very rapidly, and in a very
few years the sportsman will have to cross the Mississippi to find a pack of grouse. The Sharp-tailed
Grouse, an occasional visitor in winter from Wisconsin, is found in the timbered country.

Of wading birds, from forty to fifty species, among which the Sand-Hill Crane is very abundant,
and the Great White or Whooping Crane very rare, although supposed by some authors to be the
same bird in different stages of plumage.

Of the lobe-footed birds, seven species, of which is the rare and beautiful Wilson's Phalarope,
which breeds in the wet prairies near Chicago.

Of web-footed birds, about forty species, among which are two Swans and five Geese. Among the
Ducks, the Canvas-Back is found; but, owing to the want of its favorite food in the Chesapeake,
the Vallisneria, it is, in our waters, a very ordinary duck, as an article of food.

The waters of Illinois abound with fish, of which class we enumerate,--

  Species               Species

  Percidae,    3        Pomotis,     2
  Labrax,      3        Cottus,      2
  Lucioperca,  2        Corvina,     1
  Huro,        1        Pimelodus,   5
  Centrarchus, 3        Leuciscus,   6
  Hydrargea,   2        Corregomus,  3
  Esox,        3        Amia,        1
  Hyodon,      1        Lepidosteus, 3
  Lota,        2        Accipenser,  3

Of these, the Perch, White, Black, and Rock Bass, the Pike-Perch, the Catfish, the Pike and
Muskalonge, the Whitefish, the Lake Trout, and the Sturgeon are valuable fishes for the table.

Of the class of Reptiles, we have among the Lizards the Mud-Devil, (Menopoma Alleghaniensis,)
which grows in the sluggish streams to the length of two feet; also Triton dorsalis, Necturus
lateralis, Ambystoma punctata.

Of the Snakes, we find three venomous species, the Rattlesnake, the Massasauga, and the Copper-Head.
The largest serpents are the Black Snake, five feet long, and the Milk Snake, from five to
six feet in length.

Among the Turtles is Emys picta, Chelonura serpentina, and Cistuda clausa.

Of the Frogs, we have Rana sylvatica, Rana palustris, and Rana pipiens, nearly two feet long,
and loud-voiced in proportion,--a Bull-Frog, indeed!

Various theories and speculations have been formed as to the origin of the prairies. One of
them, is, that the forests which formerly occupied these plains were swept away at some remote
period by fire; and that the annual fires set by the Indians have continued this state of things.
Another theory is, that the violent winds which sweep over them have prevented the growth of
trees; a third, that want of rain forbids their growth; a fourth, that the agency of water
has produced the effect; and lastly, a learned professor at the last meeting of the Scientific
Convention put forth his theory, which was, that the real cause of the absence of trees from
the prairies is the mechanical condition of the soil, which is, he thinks, too fine,--a coarse,
rocky soil being, in his estimation, a necessary condition of the growth of trees.

Most of these theories seem to be inconsistent with the plain facts of the case. First, we
know that these prairies existed in their present condition when the first white man visited
them, two hundred years ago; and also that similar treeless plains exist in South America and
Central Africa, and have so existed ever since those countries were known. We are told by travellers
in those regions, that the natives have the same custom of annually burning the dry grass and
herbage for the same reason that our Indians did it, and that the early white settlers kept
up the custom,--namely, to promote the growth of young and tender feed for the wild animals
which the former hunted and the cattle which the latter live by grazing.

Another fact, well known to all settlers in the prairie, is, that it is only necessary to keep
out the fires by fences or ditches, and a thick growth of trees will spring up on the prairies.
Many fine groves now exist all over Illinois, where nothing grew twenty years ago but the wild
grasses and weeds; and we have it on record, that locust-seed, sown on the prairie near Quincy,
in four years produced trees with a diameter of trunk of four to six inches, and in seven years
had become large enough for posts and rails. So with fruit-trees, which nowhere flourish with
more strength and vigor than in this soil,--too much so, indeed, since they are apt to run
to wood rather than fruit. Moreover, the soil in the groves and on the river bottoms, where
trees naturally grow, is the same, chemically and mechanically, as that of the open prairie;
the same winds sweep over both, and the same rain falls upon both; so that it would seem that
the absence of trees cannot be attributed wholly to fire, water, wind, or soil, but is owing
to a combination of two or more of those agencies.

But from whatever cause the prairies originated, they have no doubt been perpetuated by the
fires which annually sweep over their surface. Where the soil is too wet to sustain a heavy
growth of grass, there is no prairie. Timber is found along the streams, almost invariably,--and,
where the banks are high and dry, will usually be found on the east bank of those streams whose
course is north and south. This is caused by the fact that the prevailing winds are from the
west, and bring the fire with them till it reaches the stream, which forms a barrier and protects
the vegetation on the other side.

If any State in the Union is adapted to agriculture, and the various branches of rural economy,
such as stock-raising, wool-growing, or fruit-culture, it must surely be Illinois, where the
fertile natural meadows invite the plough, without the tedious process of clearing off timber,
which, in many parts of the country, makes it the labor of a lifetime to bring a farm under
good cultivation. Here, the farmer who is satisfied with such crops as fifty bushels of corn
to the acre, eighteen of wheat, or one hundred of potatoes, has nothing to do but to plough,
sow, and reap; no manure, and but little attention, being necessary to secure a yield like
this. Hence a man of very small means can soon become independent on the prairies. If, however,
one is ambitious of raising good crops, and doing the best he can with his land, let him manure
liberally and cultivate diligently; nowhere will land pay for good treatment better than here.

Mr. J. Ambrose Wight, of Chicago, the able editor of the "Prairie Farmer," writes as follows:--

"From an acquaintance with Illinois lands and Illinois farmers, of eighteen years, during thirteen
of which I have been editor of the 'Prairie Farmer,' I am prepared to give the following as
the rates of produce which may be had per acre, with ordinary culture:--

  Winter Wheat,              15 to  25 Bushels.
  Spring   "                 10 to  20    "
  Corn,                      40 to  70    "
  Oats,                      40 to  60    "
  Potatoes,                 100 to 200    "
  Grass, Timothy and Clover, 1-1/2 to 3 Tons.

"Ordinary culture, on prairie lands, is not what is meant by the term in the Eastern or Middle
States. It means here, no manure, and commonly but once, or at most twice, ploughing, on perfectly
smooth land, with long furrows, and no stones or obstructions; where two acres per day is no
hard job for one team. It is often but very poor culture, with shallow ploughing, and without
attention to weeds. I have known crops, not unfrequently, far greater than these, with but
little variation in their treatment: say, 40 to 50 bushels of winter wheat, 60 to 80 of oats,
and 100 of Indian corn, or 300 of potatoes. Good culture, which means rotation, deep ploughing,
farms well stocked, and some manure applied at intervals of from three to five years, would,
in good seasons, very often approach these latter figures."

We will now give the results of a very detailed account of the management of a farm of 240
acres, in Kane County, Illinois, an average farm as to soil and situation, but probably much
above the average in cultivation,--at least, we should judge so from the intelligent and business-like
manner in which the account is kept; every crop having a separate account kept with it in Dr.
and Cr., to show the net profit or loss of each.

23 acres of Wheat,               30    bushels per acre, net profit $453.00 17-1/2 "    " 
on Corn ground, 22-1/2  "         "         "       278.50 9-1/2  "   Spring Wheat,       
24      "         "         "       159.70 2-1/2  "   Winter Rye,           22-7/12 "     
"         "        10.25 5-1/2  "   Barley,               33-1/4  "         "         "   
32.55 12     "   Oats,                 87-1/2  "         "         "       174.50 28-1/2 "
Corn,                 60      "         "         "       638.73 1      "   Potatoes,     
150      "         "         "        27.50 103 Sheep, average weight of fleece, 3-1/2 lbs.,
"       177.83 15 head of Cattle and one Colt                               "       103.00
1500 lbs. Pork                                               "        35.00 Fruit, Honey, Bees,
and Poultry                              "        73.75 21 acres Timothy Seed, 4 bushels per
acre,                   "       123.00 -------- $2287.31

A farm of this size, so situated, with the proper buildings and stock, may, at the present
price of land, be supposed to represent a capital of $15,000--on which sum the above account
gives an interest of over 15 per cent. Is there any other part of the country where the same
interest can be realized on farming capital?

But this farm of 240 acres is a mere retail affair to many farms in the State. We will give
some examples on a larger scale.

"Winstead Davis came to Jonesboro', Illinois, from Tennessee, thirty years ago, without means
of any kind; now owns many thousand acres of land, and has under cultivation, this year, from
2500 to 3000 acres."

"W. Willard, native of Vermont, commenced penniless; now owns more than 10,000 acres of land,
and cultivates 2000."

"Jesse Funk, near Bloomington, Illinois, began the world thirty years ago, at rail-splitting,
at twenty-five cents the hundred. He bought land, and raised cattle; kept increasing his lands
and herds, till he now owns 7000 acres of land, and sells over 840,000 worth of cattle and
hogs annually.

"Isaac Funk, brother of the above, began in the same way, at the same time. He has gone ahead
of Jesse; for he owns 27,000 acres of land, has 4000 in cultivation, and his last year's sales
of cattle amounted to $65,000."

It is evident that the brothers Funk are men of administrative talent; they would have made
a figure in Wall Street, could have filled cabinet office at Washington, or, perhaps, could
even have "kept a hotel."

These are but specimens of the large-acred men of Illinois. Hundreds of others there are, who
farm on nearly the same scale.

The great difficulty in carrying on farming operations on a large scale in Illinois has always
been the scarcity of labor. Land is cheap and plenty, but labor scarce and dear: exactly the
reverse of what obtains in England, where land is dear and labor cheap. It must be evident
that a different kind of farming would be found here from that in use in older countries. There,
the best policy is to cultivate a few acres well; here, it has been found more profitable to
skim over a large surface. But within a few years the introduction of labor-saving machines
has changed the conditions of farming, and has rendered it possible to give good cultivation
to large tracts of land with few men. Many of the crops are now put in by machines, cultivated
by machines, and harvested by machine. If, as seems probable, the steam-plough of Fawkes shall
become a success, the revolution in farming will be complete. Already some of the large farmers
employ wind or steam power in various ways to do the heavy work, such as cutting and grinding
food for cattle and hogs, pumping water, etc.

Although the soil and climate of Illinois are well adapted to fruit-culture, yet, from various
causes, it has not, till lately, been much attended to. The early settlers of Southern and
Middle Illinois were mostly of the Virginia race, Hoosiers,--who are a people of few wants.
If they have hog-meat and hominy, whiskey and tobacco, they are content; they will not trouble
themselves to plant fruit-trees. The early settlers in the North were, generally, very poor
men; they could not afford to buy fruit-trees, for the produce of which they must wait several
years. Wheat, corn, and hogs were the articles which could be soonest converted into money,
and those they raised. Then the early attempts at raising fruit were not very successful. The
trees were brought from the East, and were either spoiled by the way, or were unsuited to this
region. But the great difficulty has been the want of drainage. Fruit-trees cannot be healthy
with wet feet for several months of the year, and this they are exposed to on these level lands.
With proper tile-draining, so that the soil shall be dry and mellow early in the spring, we
think that the apple, the pear, the plum, and the cherry will succeed on the prairies anywhere
in Illinois. The peach and the grape flourish in the southern part of the State, already, with
very little care; in St. Clair County, the culture of the latter has been carried on by the
Germans for many years, and the average yield of Catawba wine has been two hundred gallons
per acre. The strawberry grows wild all over the State, both in the timber and the prairie;
and the cultivated varieties give very fine crops. All the smaller fruits do well here, and
the melon family find in this soil their true home; they are raised by the acre, and sold by
the wagon-load, in the neighborhood of Chicago.

Stock-raising is undoubtedly the most profitable kind of farming on the prairies, which are
so admirably adapted to this species of rural economy, and Illinois is already at the head
of the cattle-breeding States. There were shipped from Chicago in 1860, 104,122 head of live
cattle, and 114,007 barrels of beef.

The Durham breed seems to be preferred by the best stock-farmers, and they pay great attention
to the purity of the race. A herd of one hundred head of cattle raised near Urbanna, and averaging
1965 pounds each, took the premium at the World's Fair in New York. Although the Durhams are
remarkable for their large size and early maturity, yet other breeds are favorites with many
farmers,--such as the Devons, the Herefords, and the Holsteins, the first particularly,--for
working cattle, and for the quality of their beef. There is a sweetness about the beef fattened
upon these prairies which is not found elsewhere, and is noticed by all travellers who have
eaten of that meat at the best Chicago hotels.

In fact, Illinois is the paradise of cattle, and there is no sight more beautiful, in its way,
than one of those vast natural meadows in June, dotted with the red and white cattle, standing
belly-deep in rich grass and gay-colored flowers, and almost too fat and lazy to whisk away
the flies. Even in winter they look comfortable, in their sheltered barn-yard, surrounded by
huge stacks of hay or long ranges of corn-cribs, chewing the cud of contentment, and untroubled
with any thought of the inevitable journey to Brighton.

Where corn is so plenty as it is in Illinois, of course hogs will be plenty also. During the
year 1860, two hundred and seventy-five thousand porkers rode into Chicago by railroad, eighty-five
thousand of which pursued their journey, still living, to Eastern cities,--the balance remaining
behind to be converted into lard, bacon, and salt pork.

The wholesale way of making beef and pork is this. All summer the cattle are allowed to run
on the prairie, and the hogs in the timber on the river bottoms. In the autumn, when the corn
is ripe, the cattle are turned into one of those great fields, several hundred acres in extent,
to gather the crop; and after they have done, the hogs come in to pick up what the cattle have
left.

Sheep do well on the prairies, particularly in the southern part of the State, where the flocks
require little or no shelter in winter. The prairie wolves formerly destroyed many sheep; but
since the introduction of strychnine for poisoning those voracious animals, the sheep have
been very little troubled.

Horses and mules are raised extensively, and in the northern counties, where the Morgans and
other good breeds have been introduced, the horses are as good as in any State of the Union.
Theory would predict this result, since the horse is found always to come to his greatest perfection
in level countries,--as, for instance, the deserts of Arabia, and the llanos of South America.

There are two articles in daily and indispensable use, for which the Northern States have hitherto
been dependent on the Southern: Sugar and Cotton. With regard to the first, the introduction
of the Chinese Sugar-Cane has demonstrated that every farmer in the State can raise his own
sweetening. The experience of several years has proved that the Sorghum is a hardier plant
than corn, and that it will be a sure crop as far North as latitude 42° or 43°.

An acre of good prairie will produce 18 tons of the cane, and each ton gives 60 gallons of
juice, which is reduced, by boiling, to 10 gallons of syrup. This gives 180 gallons of syrup
to the acre, worth from 40 to 50 cents a gallon,--say 40 cents, which will give 72 dollars
for the product of an acre of land; from which the expenses of cultivation being deducted,
with rent of land, etc., say 36 dollars, there will remain a net profit of 36 dollars to the
acre, besides the seed, and the fodder which comes from a third part of the stalk, which is
cut off before sending the remainder to the mill. This is found to be the most nutritious food
that can be used for cattle and horses, and very valuable for milch cows. These results Lave
been obtained from Mr. Luce, of Plainfield, Will County, who has lately built a steam-mill
for making the syrup from the cane which is raised by the farmers in that vicinity. In this
first year, he manufactured 12,500 gallons of syrup, which sells readily at fifty cents a gallon.
A quantity of it was refined at the Chicago Sugar-Refinery, and the result was a very agreeable
syrup, free from the peculiar flavor which the home-made Sorghum-syrup usually has. As yet,
no experiments on a large scale have been made to obtain crystallized sugar from the juice
of this cane, it having been, so far, used more economically in the shape of syrup. That it
can be done, however, is proved by the success of several persons who have tried it in a small
way. In the County of Vermilion, it is estimated that three hundred thousand gallons of syrup
were made in 1860.

As to Cotton, since the building of the Illinois Central Railroad has opened the southern part
of the State to the world, and let in the light upon that darkened Egypt, it is found that
those people have been raising their own cotton for many years, from the seed which they brought
with them into the State from Virginia and North Carolina. The plant has become acclimated,
and now ripens its seed in latitude 39° and 40°. Perhaps the culture may be carried still farther,
so that cotton may be raised all over the State. The heat of our summers is tropical, but they
are too short. If, however, the cotton-plant, like Indian corn and the tomato, can be gradually
induced to mature itself in four or five months, the consequences of such a change can hardly
be estimated.

But whether or not it be possible to raise cotton and sugar profitably in Illinois, that she
is the great bread- and meat-producing State no one can doubt; and in 1861 it happens that
Cotton is King no longer, but must yield his sceptre to Corn.

The breadstuffs exported from the Northwest to Europe and to the Cotton States will this year
probably amount to more money than the whole foreign export of cotton,--the crop which to some
persons represents all that the world contains of value.

  Probable export of Cotton in 1861, three-fourths
  of the crop of 4,000,000 bales, 3,000,000 bales,
  at $45 .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . $135,000,000
  Estimated export of Breadstuffs
  to Europe .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   $100,000,000
  Estimated export of Breadstuffs
  to Southern States .    .    .    .    .    .     $45,000,000
                                                   ------------
                                                   $145,000,000

We are feeding Europe and the Cotton States, who pay us in gold; we feed the Northern States,
who pay us in goods; we are feeding our starving brothers in Kansas, who have paid us beforehand,
by their heroic devotion to the cause of freedom. Let us hope that their troubles are nearly
over, and that, having passed through more hardships than have fallen to the lot of any American
community, they may soon enter upon a career of prosperity as signal as have been their misfortunes,
so that the prairies of Kansas may, in their turn, assist in feeding the world.

Nothing has done so much for the rapid growth of Illinois as her canal and railroads.

As early as 1833 several railroad charters were granted by the legislature; but the stock was
not taken, and nothing was done until the year 1836, when a vast system of internal improvements
was projected, intended "to be commensurate with the wants of the people,"--that is, there
was to be a railroad to run by every man's door. About thirteen hundred miles of railroads
were planned, a canal was to be built from Chicago to the Illinois River at Peru, and several
rivers were to be made navigable. The cost of all this it was supposed would be about eight
millions of dollars, and the money was to be raised by loan. In order that all might have the
benefit of this system, it was provided that two hundred thousand dollars should be distributed
among those counties where none of these improvements were made. To cap the climax of folly,
it was provided that the work should commence on all these roads simultaneously, at each end,
and from the crossings of all the rivers.

As no previous survey or estimate had been made, either of the routes, the cost of the works,
or the amount of business to be done on them, it is not surprising that the State of Illinois
soon found herself with a heavy debt, and nothing to show for it, except a few detached pieces
of railroad embankments and excavations, a half-finished canal, and a railroad from the Illinois
River to Springfield, which cost one million of dollars, and when finished would not pay for
operating it.

The State staggered on for some ten years under this load of debt, which, as she could not
pay the interest upon it, had increased in 1845 to some fourteen millions. The project of repudiating
the debt was frequently brought forward by unscrupulous politicians; but to the honor of the
people of Illinois be it remembered, that even in the darkest times this dishonest scheme found
but few friends.

In 1845, the holders of the canal bonds advanced the sum of $1,700,000 for the purpose of finishing
the canal; and subsequently, William B. Ogden and a few other citizens of Chicago, having obtained
possession of an old railroad-charter for a road from that city to Galena, got a few thousand
dollars of stock subscribed in those cities, and commenced the work. The difficulties were
very great, from the scarcity of money and the want of confidence in the success of the enterprise.
In most of the villages along the proposed line there was a strong opposition to having a railroad
built at all, as the people thought it would be the ruin of their towns. Even in Chicago, croakers
were not wanting to predict that the railroad would monopolize all the trade of the place.

In the face of all these obstacles, the road was built to the Des Plaines River, twelve miles,--in
a very cheap way, to be sure; as a second-hand strap-rail was used, and half-worn cars were
picked up from Eastern roads.

These twelve miles of road between the Des Plaines and Chicago had always been the terror of
travellers. It was a low, wet prairie, without drainage, and in the spring and autumn almost
impassable. At such seasons one might trace the road by the broken wagons and dead horses that
lay strewn along it.

To be able to have their loads of grain carried over this dreadful place for three or four
cents a bushel was to the farmers of the Rock River and Fox River valleys--who, having hauled
their wheat from forty to eighty miles to this Slough of Despond, frequently could get it no
farther--a privilege which they soon began to appreciate. The road had all it could do, at
once. It was a success. There was now no difficulty in getting the stock taken up, and before
long it was finished to Fox River. It paid from fifteen to twenty per cent to the stockholders,
and the people along the line soon became its warmest friends,--and no wonder, since it doubled
the value of every man's farm on the line. The next year the road was extended to Rock River,
and then to Galena, one hundred and eighty-five miles.

This road was the pioneer of the twenty-eight hundred and fifty miles of railroads which now
cross the State in every direction, and which have hastened the settlement of the prairies
at least fifty years.

Among these lines of railway, the most important, and one of the longest in America, is the
Illinois Central, which is seven hundred and four miles in length, and traverses the State
from South to North, namely:--

  1. The main line, from Cairo to La Salla           308 miles
  2. The Galena Branch, from La Salle to Dunleith    146  "
  3. The Chicago Branch, from Chicago to Centralia   250  "

This great work was accomplished in the short space of four years and nine months, by the help
of a grant of two and a half millions of acres of land lying along the line. The company have
adopted the policy of selling these lands on long credit to actual settlers; and since the
completion of the road, in 1856, they have sold over a million of acres, for fifteen millions
of dollars, in secured notes, bearing interest. The remaining lands will probably realize as
much more, so that the seven hundred and four miles of railroad will actually cost the corporators
nothing.

There are eleven trunk and twenty branch and extension lines, which centre in Chicago, the
earnings of nineteen of which, for the year 1859, were fifteen millions of dollars. As that,
however, was a year of great depression in business, with a short crop through the Northwest,
we think, in view of the large crop of 1860, and the consequent revival of business, that the
earnings of these nineteen lines will not be less this year than twenty-two millions of dollars.

In the early settlement of the State, twenty-five or thirty years ago, the pioneers being necessarily
very liable to want of good shelter, to bad food and impure water, suffered much from bilious
and intermittent fevers. As the country has become settled, the land brought under cultivation,
and the habits of the people improved, these diseases have in a great measure disappeared.
Other forms of disease have, however, taken their place, pulmonary affections and fevers of
the typhoid type being more prevalent than formerly; but as most of the immigrants into Northern
Illinois are from Western New York and New England, where this latter class of diseases prevails,
the people are much less alarmed by them than they used to be by the bilious diseases, though
the latter were really less dangerous. The coughs, colds, and consumptions are old acquaintances,
and through familiarity have lost their terrors.

The census of 1850 gives the following comparative view of the annual percentage of deaths
in several States:--

  Massachusetts,   .   . 1.95 per cent.
  Rhode Island, .   .    1.52 "
  New York,    .   .   . 1.47 "
  Ohio,  .   .   .   .   1.44 "
  Illinois, .  .   .   . 1.36 "
  Missouri,  .   .   .   1.80 "
  Louisiana,   .   .   . 2.31 "
  Texas,     .   .   .   1.43 "

This table shows that Illinois stands in point of health among the very highest of the States.

Having sketched the history and traced the material development of the Prairie State to the
present time, we will close this article with a few words as to its politics and policy.

As we have seen, the early settlers of Illinois were from Virginia and Kentucky, and brought
with them the habits, customs, and ideas of Slaveholders; and though by the sagacity and virtue
of a few leading men the institution of Slavery was kept out, yet for many years the Democratic
Party, always the ally and servant of the Slave-Power, was in the ascendant. Until 1858, the
Legislature and the Executive have always been Democratic, and the Democratic candidate for
the Presidency, from Jackson down to Buchanan, was sure of the electoral vote of Illinois.
But the growth of the northern half of the State has of late years been far outstripping that
of the southern portion, and the former now has the majority. We have now a Republican Legislature
and a Republican Governor, and, by the new apportionment soon to be made, the Republican Party
will be much more largely in the ascendant,--so much so, indeed, that there is no probability
of another Democratic Senator being chosen from Illinois in the next twenty years, Mr. Douglas
will be the last of his race.

The people of Northern Illinois, who are in future to direct the policy of the State, are mostly
from Western New York and New England.

  "Coelum, non animum mutant."

They bring with them their unconquered prejudices in favor of freedom; their great commercial
city is as strongly anti-slavery as Worcester or Syracuse, and has been for years an unsafe
spot for a slave-hunter. Their interests and their sympathies are all with the Northern States.
What idle babble, then, is this theory of a third Confederacy, to be constructed out of the
middle Atlantic States and the Northwest!

If, as one of our orators says, New England is the brain of this country, then the Northwest
is its bone and muscle, ready to cultivate its wide prairies and feed the world,--or, if need
be, to use the same strength in crushing treason, and in preserving the Territories for free
settlers. And sometimes, thus looking onward into the future, you worry yourself with little
thoughts and cares. Sometimes the husband is merely the careworn drudge who provides what the
wife squanders.

ORIGINAL MEMORIALS OF MRS. PIOZZI.

Ninety years ago, one of the pleasantest houses near London, for the society that gathered
within it, was Mr., or rather, Mrs. Thrale's, at Streatham Park. To be a guest there was to
meet the best people in England, and to hear such good talk that much of it has not lost its
flavor even yet. Strawberry Hill, Holland House, or any other famous house of that day, has
left but faint memories of itself, compared with those of Streatham. Boswell, the most sagacious
of men in the hunt after good company, had the good wit and good fortune to get entrance here.
Upon the walls of the library hung portraits of the master and mistress of the house, and of
their most familiar friends and guests, all by Sir Joshua. Madame d'Arblay, in her most entertaining
"Diary," gives a list of them,--and a list is all that is needed of such famous names. "Mrs.
Thrale and her eldest daughter were in one piece, over the fireplace, at full length. The rest
of the pictures were all three-quarters. Mr. Thrale was over the door leading to his study.
The general collection then began by Lord Sandys and Lord Westcote, (Lyttelton,) two early
noble friends of Mr. Thrale. Then followed Dr. Johnson, Mr. Burke, Dr. Goldsmith, Mr. Murphy,
Mr. Garrick, Mr. Baretti, Sir Robert Chambers, and Sir Joshua Reynolds himself,--all painted
in the highest style of this great master, who much delighted in this his Streatham Gallery.
There was place left but for one more frame when the acquaintance with Dr. Burney began at
Streatham."

A household which had such men for its intimates must have had a more than common charm in
itself, and at Streatham this charm lay chiefly in the character of its mistress. It was Mrs.
Thrale who had the rare power "to call together the most select company when it pleased her."
In 1770 she was thirty years old. A small and not beautiful woman, but with a variety of expression
that more than compensated for the want of handsome features, with a frank, animated manner,
and that highest tact which sets guests at ease, there was something specially attractive in
her first address. But beyond this she was the pleasantest converser of all the ladies of the
day. In that art in which one "has all mankind for competitors," there was no one equal to
her in her way. Gifted with the readiest of well-stored memories, with a lively wit and sprightly
fancy, with a strong desire to please and an ambition to shine, she never failed to win admiration,
while her sweetness of temper and delicate consideration for others gained for her a general
regard. For many years she was the friend who did most to make Johnson's life happy. He was
a constant inmate at Streatham. "I long thought you," wrote he, "the first of womankind." It
was her "kindness which soothed twenty years of a life radically wretched." "To see and hear
you," he wrote, "is always to hear wit and to see virtue." She belonged, in truth, to the most
serviceable class of women,--by no means to the highest order of her sex. She was not a woman
of deep heart, or of noble or tender feeling; but she had kindly and ready sympathies, and
such a disposition to please as gave her the capacity of pleasing. Her very faults added to
her success. She was vain and ambitious; but her vanity led her to seek the praises of others,
and her ambition taught her how to gain them. She was selfish; but she pleased herself not
at the expense of others, but by paying them attentions which returned to her in personal gratifications.
She was made for such a position as that which she held at Streatham. The highest eulogy of
her is given in an incidental way by Boswell.

All the world of readers know the main incidents of Mrs. Thrale's life. Her own books, Boswell,
Madame d'Arblay, have made us almost as familiar with her as with Dr. Johnson himself. Not
yet have people got tired of wondering at her marriage with Piozzi, or of amusing themselves
with the gossip of the old lady who remained a wit at eighty years old, and, having outlived
her great contemporaries, was happy in not outliving her own faculties. Few characters not
more remarkable have been more discussed than hers. Macaulay, with characteristic unfairness,
gave a view of her conduct which Mr. Hayward, in his recently published entertaining volumes,[A]
shows to have been in great part the invention of the great essayist's lively and unprincipled
imagination. In the autobiographical memorials of Mrs. Piozzi, now for the first time printed,
there is much that throws light on her life, and her relations with her contemporaries. They
do not so much raise one's respect for her, as present her to us as a very natural and generally
likable sort of woman, even in those acts of her life which have been the most blamed. London,
1861. Reprinted by Ticknor & Fields.]

If she had but died while she was mistress of Streatham, we should have only delightful recollections
of her. She would have been one of the most agreeable famous women on record. But the last
forty years of her life were not as charming as the first. Her weaknesses gained mastery over
her, her vanity led her into follies, and she who had once been the favorite correspondent
of Dr. Johnson now appears as the correspondent of such inferior persona that no association
is connected with their names. Mrs. Thrale and Mrs. Piozzi are two different persons. One belongs
to Streatham, the other to Bath; one is "always young and always pretty," the other a rouged
old woman. But it is unfair to push the contrast too far. Mrs. Piozzi at seventy or eighty
was as sprightly, as good-natured, as Mrs. Thrale at thirty or forty. She never lost her vivacity,
never her desire to please.

One of the most marked and least satisfactory expressions of Mrs. Piozzi's character during
her later years was a fancy that she took to Conway, a young and handsome actor, who appeared
in Bath, where she was then living, in the year 1819. From the time of her first acquaintance
with him, till her death, in 1821, she treated him with the most flattering regard,--with an
affection, indeed, that might be called motherly, had there not been in it an element of excitement
which was neither maternal nor dignified. Conway was a gentleman in feeling, and seems to have
had not only a grateful sense of the old lady's partiality for him, but a sincere interest
also in hearing from her of the days and the friends of her youth. So she wrote letters to
him, gave him books filled with annotations, (it was a favorite habit of hers to write notes
on the margins of books,) wrote for him the story of her life, and drew on the resources of
her marvellous memory for his amusement. The old woman's kindness was one of the few bright
things in poor Conway's unhappy life. His temperament was morbidly sensitive; and when, in
1821, while acting in London, Theodore Hook attacked him in the most cruel and offensive manner
in the columns of the "John Bull," he threw up his engagement, determined to act no more in
London, and for a time left the stage. A year or two afterwards he came to this country, and
met with a very considerable success. But he fancied himself underrated, and, after performing
in Philadelphia in the winter of 1826, he took passage for Charleston, and on the voyage threw
himself overboard and was lost. His effects were afterwards sold by auction in New York. Among
them were many interesting relics and memorials of Mrs. Piozzi. But there were other books
of far greater interest and value than this. There was, as we have been informed, a copy of
Malone's Shakspeare, with numerous notes in the handwriting of Dr. Johnson,--and a copy of
"Prayers and Meditations by Samuel Johnson," with several additional manuscript prayers, and
Mrs. Piozzi's name upon one of the fly-leaves. But more curious still was a copy of Mrs. Piozzi's
"Journey through France, Italy, and Germany," both volumes of which are full of marginal notes,
while, inserted at the beginning and the end, are many pages of Mrs. Piozzi's beautifully written
manuscript, containing a narrative and anecdotes of portions of her life. These volumes now
lie before us,[B] and their unpublished contents are as lively, as entertaining, and as rich
in autobiographic illustration, as any of the material of which Mr. Hayward's recent book is
composed.

[Footnote B: This unique copy of the Journey through France, etc., is in the possession of
Mr. Duncan C. Pell, of Newport, R.I. It is to his liberality that we are indebted for the privilege
of laying before the readers of the Atlantic the following portions of Mrs. Piozzi's manuscript.]

On the first fly-leaf is the following inscription:--

"These Books do not in any wise belong to me; they are the property of William Augustus Conway,
Esq., who left them to my care, for purpose of putting notes, when he quitted Bath, May 14, 1819.

"Hester Lynch Piozzi writes this for fear lest her death happening before his return, these
books might be confounded among the others in her study."

On the next page the narrative begins, and with a truly astonishing spirit for the writing
of a woman in her eightieth year. Her old vivacity is still natural to her; there is nothing
forced in the pleasantry of this introduction.

"A Lady once--'t was many years ago--asked me to lend her a book out of my library at Streatham
Park. 'A book of entertainment,' said J, 'of course.' 'That I don't know or rightly comprehend;'
was her odd answer; 'I wish for an Abridgment.' 'An Abridgment of what?' 'That,' she replied,
'you must tell me, my Dear; for I am no reader, like you and Dr. Johnson; I only remember that
the last book I read was very pretty, and my husband called it an Abridgment.'.... And if I
give some account of myself here in these few little sheets prefixed to my 'Journey thro' Italy,'
you must kindly accept

"The Abridgment."

The first pages of the manuscript are occupied by Mrs. Piozzi with an account of her family
and of her own early life. They contain in brief the same narrative that she gave in her "Autobiographical
Memoirs," printed by Mr. Hayward, in his first volume. Here is a story, however, which we do
not remember to have seen before.

"My heart was free, my head full of Authors, Actors, Literature in every shape; and I had a
dear, dear friend, an old Dr. Collier, who said he was sixty-six years old, I remember, the
day I was sixteen, and whose instructions I prized beyond all the gayeties of early life: nor
have I ever passed a day since we parted in which I have not recollected with gratitude the
boundless obligations that I owe him. He was intimate with the famous James Harris of Salisbury,
Lord Malmesbury's father, of whom you have heard how Charles Townshend said, when he took his
seat in the House of Commons,--'Who is this man?'--to his next neighbour; 'I never saw him
before.' 'Who? Why, Harris the author, that wrote one book about Grammar [so he did] and one
about Virtue.' 'What does he come here for?' replies Spanish Charles; 'he will find neither
Grammar nor Virtue here.' Well, my dear old Dr. Collier had much of both, and delighted to
shake the superflux of his full mind over mine, ready to receive instruction conveyed with
so much tender assiduity."

In both her autobiographies, the printed as well as the manuscript, Mrs. Piozzi speaks in very
cold and disparaging terms of her first husband, Mr. Thrale. Her marriage with him had not
been a love-match; but we suspect that the long course of years had been unfavorable to his
memory in her recollection, and that the blame with which his friends visited her second marriage,
which was in all respects an affair of the heart, produced in her a certain bitterness of feeling
toward Mr. Thrale, as if he had been the author of these reproaches. It is impossible to believe
that he was as indifferent to her as she represents, and that her marriage with him was not
moderately happy.

One of her most decided intellectual characteristics was her versatility, or, to give it a
harder name, what Johnson called her "instability of attention." Dulness was, in her code,
the unpardonable sin. Variety was the charm of life, and of books. She never dwelt long on
one idea. Her letters and her books are pieces of mosaic-work, the bits of material being put
together without any regular pattern, but often with a pretty effect. Here is an illustration
of her style.

"In a few years (our Letters tell the date) Johnson was introduced; and now I must laugh at
a ridiculous Retrospection. When I was a very young wench, scarce twelve years old I trust,
my notice was strongly attracted by a Mountebank in some town we were passing through. 'What
a fine fellow!' said I; 'dear Papa, do ask him to dinner with us at our inn!--or, at least,
Merry Andrew, because he could tell us such clever stories of his master.' My Father laughed
sans intermission an hour by the dial, as Jacques once at Motley.--Yet did dear Mr. Conway's
fancy for H.L.P.'s conversation grow up, at first, out of something not unlike this, when,
his high-polished mind and fervid imagination taking fire from the tall Beacon bearing Dr.
Johnson's fame above the clouds, he thought some information might perhaps be gained by talk
with the old female who so long carried coals to it. She has told all, or nearly all, she knew,--

  'And like poor Andrew must advance,
  Mean mimic of her master's dance;--
  But similes, like songs in love,
  Describing much, too little prove.'

"So now, leaving Prior's pretty verses, and leaving Dr. Johnson too, who was himself severely
censured for his rough criticism on a writer who had pleased all in our Augustan age of Literature,
poor H.L.P. turns egotist at eighty, and tells her own adventures."

But the octogenarian egotist has something to tell about beside herself. Here is a passage
of interest to the student of Shakspearian localities, and bearing on a matter in dispute from
the days of Malone and Chalmers. Before I quitted the premises, however, I learned that Tarleton,
the actor of those times, was not buried at St. Saviour's, Southwark, as he wished, near Massinger
and Cower, but at Shoreditch Church. He was the first of the profession whose fame was high
enough to have his portrait solicited for to be set up as a Sign; and none but he and Garrick,
I believe, ever obtained that honour. Mr. Dance's picture of our friend David lives in a copy
now in Oxford St.,--the character, King Richard."

Somewhat more than three years after her first husband's death, Mrs. Thrale, in spite of the
opposition of her friends, the repugnance of her daughters, and the sneers of society, married
Piozzi. He was a poor Italian gentleman, whose only fortune was in his voice and his musical
talent. He had been for some time an admired public singer in London and Paris. There was nothing
against him but the opinion of society. Mrs. Thrale set this opinion at defiance: a rash thing
for a woman to do, and hardly an excusable one in her case; for she was aware that she would
thus alienate her daughters, and offend her best friends. But she was in love with him; and
though for a time she tried to struggle against her passion, it finally prevailed over her
prudence, her pride, and such affections as she had for others. Her health suffered during
the struggle, the termination of which she thus narrates in her "Abridgment." The account differs
in some slight particulars from that in her "Autobiographical Memoirs"; but a comparison between
the two serves rather to confirm than to impugn her general accuracy.

"I hoped," she says, "in defiance of probability, to live my sorrows out, and marry the man
of my choice. Health, however, began to give way, as my Letters to Dr. Johnson testify; and
when my kind physician, Dobson, from Liverpool, found it in actual and positive danger,--'Now,'
said he, 'I have respected your delicacy long enough; tell me at once who he is that holds
such a life in his power: for write to him I must and will; it is my sacred duty.' 'Dear Sir,'
said I, 'the difficulty is to keep him at a distance. Speak to these cruel girls, if you will
speak.' 'One of whose lives your assiduous tenderness,' cried he, 'saved, with my little help,
only a month ago!'--and ran up-stairs to the ladies. 'We know,' was their reply, 'that she
is fretting after a fellow; but where he is--you may ask her--we know not.' 'He is at Milan,
with his friend the Marquis of Aracieli,' said I,--'from whom I had a letter last week, requesting
Piozzi's recall from banishment, as he gallantly terms it, little conscious of what I suffer.'
So we wrote; and he returned on the eleventh day after receiving the letter. Meanwhile my health
mended, and I waited on the lasses to their own house at Brighthelmstone, leaving Miss Nicholson,
a favorite friend of theirs, and all their intolerably insolent servants, with them. Piozzi's
return accelerated the recovery of your poor friend, and we married in both Churches,--at St.
James', Bath, on St. James' Day, 1784,--thirty-five years ago now that I write this Abridgment.
When we came to examine Papers, however, our attorney, Greenland, discovered a suppression
of fifteen hundred pounds, which helped pay our debts, discharge the mortgage, etc., as Piozzi,
like Portia, permitted me not to sleep by his side with an unquiet soul. He settled everything
with his own money, depended on God and my good constitution for our living long and happily
together,--and so we did, twenty-five years,--said change of scenery would complete the cure,
and carried me off in triumph, as he called it, to shew his friends in Italy the foreign wife
he had so long been sighing for. 'Ah, Madam!' said the Marquis, when he first saluted me, 'we
used to blame dear Piozzi;--now we envy him!'"

Of Mrs. Piozzi's journey on the Continent we shall speak in another article. After a residence
abroad of two years and a half, she and her husband returned to London in March, 1787. Mrs.
Piozzi had come home determined to resume, if it were possible, her old place in society, and
to assert herself against the attacks of wits and newspapers, and the coldness of old friends.
She had been hardly and unfairly dealt with by the public, in regard to her marriage. The appearance,
during her absence, of her volume of "Anecdotes of Dr. Johnson" had given unfriendly critics
an opportunity to pass harsh judgment upon her literary merits, and had excited the jealousy
of rival biographers of the dead lion. Boswell, Hawkins, Baretti, Chalmers, Peter Pindar, Gifford,
Horace Walpole, all had their fling at her. Never was an innocent woman in private life more
unfeelingly abused, or her name dragged before the public more wantonly, in squibs and satires,
jests and innuendoes. The women who transgress social conventionalities are often treated as
if they had violated the rules of morals. But she was not to be put down in this way. Her temperament
enabled her to escape much of the pain which a more sensitive person would have suffered. She
hardened herself against the malice of her satirists; and in doing so, her character underwent
an essential change. She was truly happy with Piozzi, and she preserved, by strength of will,
an inexhaustible fund of good spirits.

Poor old woman, who could thus write of her own daughters!--poor old woman, who had not heart
enough either to keep the love of her children or to grieve for its loss! Cecilia was her fourth
and youngest child, and her story, as her mother tells it, may as well be finished here. After
speaking in her manuscript of a claim on some Oxfordshire property, disputed by her daughters,
she says, in words hard and cold as steel,--"We threw it up, therefore, and contented ourselves
with the plague Cecilia gave us, who, by dint of intriguing lovers, teazed my soul out before
she was fifteen,--when she fortunately ran away, jumping out of the window at Streatham Park,
with Mr. Mostyn of Segraid,--a young man to whom Sir Thomas Mostyn's title will go, if he does
not marry, but whose property, being much encumbered, made him no match for Cecy and her forty
thousand pounds; and we were censured for not taking better care, and suffering her to wed
a Welsh gentleman,--object of ineffable contempt to the daughters of Mr. Thrale, with whom
she always held correspondence while living with us, who indulged her in every expense and
every folly,--although allowed only one hundred and forty pounds per ann. on her account."

After two or three years spent in London, the Piozzis resided for some time at Streatham,--how
changed in mistress and in guests from the Streatham of which Mrs. Thrale had been the presiding
genius! But after a while they removed to Wales, where, on an old family estate belonging to
Mrs. Piozzi, they built a house, and christened the place with the queer Welsh-Italian compound
name of Brynbella. Here they lived, with occasional visits to other places, during the remainder
of Piozzi's life.

And now that we are on anecdotes of the Theatre, here is another good story, which belongs
to a somewhat earlier time, but of which Mrs. Piozzi does not mention the exact date. "The
Richmond Theatre at that time attracted all literary people's attention, while a Coterie of
Gentlemen and Noblemen and Ladies entertained themselves with getting up Plays, and acting
them at the Duke of Richmond's house, Whitehall. Lee's 'Theodosius' was the favorite. Lord
Henry Fitzgerald played Varanus very well,--for a Dilettante; and Lord Derby did his part surprisingly.
But there was a song to be sung to Athenais, while she, resolving to take poison, sits in a
musing attitude. Jane Holman--then Hamilton--would sing an air of Sacchini, and the manager
would not hear Italian words. The ballad appointed by the author was disapproved by all, and
I pleased everybody by my fortunate fancy of adapting some English verses to the notes of Sacchini's
song; and Jane Hamilton sung them enchantingly:--

  'Vain's the breath of Adulation,
  Vain the tears of tenderest Passion,
  Whilst a strong Imagination
  Holds the wandering Mind away;
  Art in vain attempts to borrow
  Notes to soothe a rooted sorrow;
  Fixed to die, and die to-morrow,
  What can touch her soul to-day?'

"The lines were printed, but I lost them. 'What a wild Tragedy is this!' said I to Hannah More,
who was one of the audience. 'Wild enough,' was her reply; 'but there's good Poetry in it,
and good Passion, and they will always do.'

"Hannah More never goes now to a Theatre. How long is H.L. Piozzi likely to be seen there?
How long will Mr. Conway keep the stage?"

In the year 1798, the family of Mr. Piozzi having suffered greatly from the French invasion
of Lombardy, he sent for the son of his youngest brother, a "little boy just turned of five
years old." "We have got him here," wrote Mrs. Piozzi in a letter from Bath, dated January,
1799, published by Mr. Hayward, "and his uncle will take him to school next week." "As he was
by a lucky chance baptized, in compliment to me, John Salusbury, [Salusbury was her family
name,] he will be known in England by no other, and it will be forgotten he is a foreigner."
I saw a hasket of men's heads at Brescia.'" Little John, though he went to school, was often
at home.

Piozzi was not far from wrong in his judgment of her treatment of this boy, if we may trust
to her complaints of his coldness and indifference to her. In 1814, at the time of his marriage,
five years after Piozzi's death, she gave to him her Welsh estate; and it may have been a greater
satisfaction to her than any gratification of the affections could have afforded, to see him,
before she died, high sheriff of his county, and knighted as Sir John Salusbury Piozzi Salusbury.

There was little gayety in the life at Brynbella, or at Bath,--and the society that Mrs. Piozzi
now saw was made up chiefly of new and for the most part uninteresting acquaintances. The old
Streatham set, with a few exceptions, were dead, and of the few that remained none retained
their former relations with its mistress. But she suffered little from the change, was contented
to win and accept the flattery of inferior people, and, instead of spending her faculties in
soothing the "radically wretched life" of Johnson, used them, perhaps not less happily, in
lightening the sufferings of Piozzi during his last years. She tells a touching story of him
in these days.

There were no morbid sensibilities in Mrs. Piozzi's composition. She can tell all her sorrows
without ever a tear. A mark of exclamation looks better than a blot. And yet she had suffered;
but it had been with such suffering as makes the soul hard rather than tender. The pages with
which she ends this narrative of her life are curiously characteristic. I sent for Salusbury,
but he came three hours too late,--his master, Mr. Shephard, with him. In another year he went
to Oxford, where he spent me above seven hundred pounds per annum, and kept me in continual
terror lest the bad habits of the place should ruin him, body, soul, and purse. His old school-fellow,
Smythe Owen,--then. Pemberton,--accompanied him, and to that gentleman's sister he of course
gave his heart. The Lady and her friends took advantage of my fondness, and insisted on my
giving up the Welsh estate. I did so, hoping to live at last with my own children, at Streatham
Park;--there, however, I found no solace of the sort. So, after entangling my purse with new
repairing and furnishing that place, retirement to Bath with my broken heart and fortune was
all I could wish or expect. Thither I hasted, heard how the possessors of Brynbella, lived
and thrived, but

  'Who set the twigs will he remember
  Who is in haste to sell the timber?'

"Well, no matter! One day before I left it there was talk how Love had always Interest annexed
to it. 'Nay, then,' said I, 'what is my love for Salusbury?' 'Oh!' replied Shephard, 'there
is Interest there. Mrs. Piozzi cannot, could not, I am sure, exist without some one upon whom
to energize her affections; his Uncle is gone, and she is much obliged to young Salusbury for
being ready at her hand to pet and spoil; her children will not suffer her to love them, and'--with
a coarse laugh--'what will she do when this fellow throws her off, as he soon will?' Shephard
was right enough. I sunk into a stupor, worse far than all the torments I had endured: but
when Canadian Indians take a prisoner, dear Mr. Conway knows what agonies they put them to;
the man bears all without complaining,--smokes, dances, triumphs in his anguish,--

  'For the son of Alcnoomak shall never complain.'

"When a little remission comes, however, then comes the torpor too;--he cannot then be waked
by pain or moderate pleasure: and such was my case, when your talents roused, your offered
friendship opened my heart to enjoyment Oh! never say hereafter that the obligations are on
your side. Without you, dulness, darkness, stagnation of every faculty would have enveloped
and extinguished all the powers of hapless

"H.L.P."

The picture that Mrs. Piozzi paints of herself in these last words is a sad one. She herself
was unconscious, however, of its real sadness. In its unintentional revelations it shows us
the feebleness without the dignity of old age, vivacity without freshness of intellect, the
pretence without the reality of sentiment. "Hapless H.L.P."--to have lived to eighty years,
and to close the record of so long a life with such words!

A little more than a year after this "Abridgment" was written, in May, 1821, Mrs. Piozzi died.
Her children, from whom she had lived separated, were around her death-bed.[C]

[Footnote C: It is but four years ago that the Viscountess Keith, Mrs. Piozzi's eldest daughter,
died. She was ninety-five years old. Her long life connected our generation with that of Johnson
and Burke. She was the last survivor of the Streatham "set,"--for, as "Queeney," she had held
a not unimportant place in it. She was at Johnson's death-bed. At their last interview he said,--"My
dear child, we part forever in this world; let us part as Christian friends should; let us
pray together."

It was in 1808 that Miss Thrale married Lord Keith, a distinguished naval officer.

In The Gentleman's Magazine, for May, 1657, is an interesting notice of Lady Keith. "During
many years," it is there said, "Viscountess Keith held a distinguished position in the highest
circles of the fashionable world in London; but during the latter portion of her life.... her
time was almost entirely devoted to works of charity and to the performance of religious duties.
No one ever did more for the good of others, and few ever did so much in so unostentatious
a manner."]

In judging her, it is to be borne in mind that the earlier and the later portions of her life
are widely different from each other. As we have before said, Mrs. Thrale and Mrs. Piozzi are
two distinct persons. Mrs. Thrale, whom the world smiled upon, whom the wits liked and society
courted, who had the best men in England for her friends, is a woman who will always be pleasant
in memory. Her unaffected grace, her kindliness, her good-humor, her talents, make her perpetually
charming. She was helped by her surroundings to be good, pleasant, and clever; and she will
always keep her place as one of the most attractive figures in the circle which was formed
by Johnson, and Burke, and Reynolds, and Fanny Burney, and others scarcely less conspicuous.
But Mrs. Piozzi, whom the world frowned upon, whom the wits jeered at, and society neglected,
whose friends nobody now knows, will be best remembered and best liked as having once been
Mrs. Thrale. There is no great charge against her; she was more sinned against than sinning;
she was only weak and foolish, only degenerated from her first excellence. And even in her
old age some traits of her youthful charms remain, and, seeing these, we regard her with a
tender compassion, and remember of her only the bright helpfulness and freshness of her younger
days, when Johnson "loved her, esteemed her, reverenced her, and thought her the first of womankind."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NIGER, AND ITS EXPLORERS.

A century ago, the interior of Africa was a sealed book to the civilized world. Candace, Queen
of the Ethiopians, had been noticed in Holy Writ; the Nile with Thebes and Memphis on its banks,
and a ship-canal to the Red Sea with triremes on its surface, had not escaped the eye of Herodotus:
but the countries which gave birth to Queen and River were alike unknown. The sunny fountains,
the golden sands, the palmy plains of Africa were to be traced in the verses of the poet; but
he dealt neither in latitude nor longitude. The maps presented a terra incognita, or sterile
mountains, where modern travellers have found rivers, lakes, and alluvial basins,--or exhibited
barren wastes, where recent discoveries find rich meadows annually flowed, studded with walled
towns and cities, enlivened by herds of cattle, or cultivated in plantations of maize and cotton.

Although the northern coast of Africa had once been the granary of Carthage and Rome, cultivation
had receded, and the corn-ship of antiquity had given place to the felucca of the corsair,
preying upon the commerce of Europe. A few caravans, laden with a little ivory and gold-dust
or a few packages of drugs and spices, crept across the Desert, and the slave-trade principally,
if not alone, drew to Africa the attention of civilized nations. Egypt, Tripoli and Tunis,
Turkey and the Spanish Provinces, the West India Isles and the Southern States, knew it as
the mart where human beings were bought and sold; and Christians were reconciled to the traffic
by the hope that it might contribute to the moral, if not physical, welfare of the captive,
by his removal to a more civilized region.

During the last three centuries, millions of Africans have perished either on their way to
slavery or in exhausting toil under a tropical sun; and the flag of England has been the most
prominent in this demoralizing traffic. But it is due to England to say, that, since she withdrew
from it, she has aimed to atone for the past by a noble and persevering devotion to the improvement
of Africa. By repeated expeditions, by missions, treaties, colonies, and incentives to commerce,
she has spread her light over the interior, and is now recognized both by the tribes of the
Desert and by civilized nations as the great protector of Africa, and both geography and commerce
owe to her most of their advances on the African continent.

So little was known of Africa, that, when Mungo Park made his report, in 1798, of the discovery
of the Niger, and described large cities on its banks, and vessels of fifty tons burden navigating
its waters, the world was incredulous; and his subsequent fate threw a cloud over the subject
which was not entirely dispelled until his course was traced and his statements verified by
modern travellers.

The route of Dr. Park was from the west coast, near Sierra Leone, to the upper branches of
the Niger. On his second expedition he took with him a detachment of British soldiers, and
a number of civilians, fresh from England, none of whom survived him. It appears from his journal
that his men followed the foot-paths of the natives, slept in the open air, were exposed to
the dews at night, and were overtaken by the rainy season before they embarked upon the Niger.
Unacclimated, with no proper means of conveyance, no suitable clothing, and no precautions
against the fever of the country, they nearly all became victims to their indiscretions. Park,
however, at length launched his schooner on the Niger, passed the city of Timbuctoo, and, with
two or three Englishmen, followed the river more than a thousand miles to Boussa. Reaching
the rapids at this point in a low stage of the water, he was so indiscreet as to fire on the
natives, and was drowned in his attempt to escape from them; but his fate remained in uncertainty
for eighteen years.

The long struggle with Napoleon, the fearful loss of life which attended the journey of Park,
and the doubts as to his fate, checked for many years the exploration of Africa. In 1821, a
third attempt to explore the Niger was made by a Major Laing, who failed in his efforts to
reach Timbuctoo, and fell a victim to Mahometan intolerance.

In 1822, a new effort was made by England to reach the interior, and Messrs. Denham and Clapperton
joined the caravan from Tripoli, and crossed the Desert to the Soudan. They explored the country
to the ninth degree of north latitude, found large Negro and Mahometan states in the interior,
and visited Saccatoo, Kano, Murfeia, Tangalra, and other large towns, some of which contained
twenty or thirty thousand people.

In their journal we find a vivid sketch of a Negro army marching from Bornou to the South,
with horsemen in coats-of-mail, as in the days of chivalry, and armed, as in those days, with
lances and bows and arrows. A glowing description is given of the ravages that attended their
march. When they entered an enemy's country, desolation marked their path, houses and corn-fields
were destroyed, all the full-grown males were put to death, and the women and children reduced
to servitude.

It was obvious that an incessant struggle was in progress between the Mahometan and Negro states,
and that the Mahometan faith and Arab blood were slowly gaining an ascendency over the Negro
even down to the equator. The conquering tribes, by intermarriage with the females, were gradually
changing the race, and introducing greater energy and intelligence; and the mixed races have
exhibited great proficiency in various branches of manufacture. The invaders took with them
large herds of cattle, and pursued a pastoral life, leaving the culture of the land principally
to the Negro.

In 1825 Clapperton made his second expedition to the interior, accompanied by Richard Lander.
In this journey the adventurous travellers landed at Badagry, and crossed through Yarriba to
the Niger. On their way they spent several days at Katunga, the capital of Yarriba, a city
so extensive that one of its streets is described as five miles in length. The town of Koofo,
with twenty thousand inhabitants, as also large cotton-plantations, are mentioned by these
travellers; and some idea of the territory they explored may be formed from the following extract
from their narrative:--

"The further we penetrate into the country, the more dense we find the population to be, and
civilization becomes at every step more strikingly apparent. Large towns, at a distance of
only a few miles from each other, we were informed, lay on all sides of us, the inhabitants
of which pay the greatest respect to the laws, and live under a regular form of government."

It is to this fertile, populous, and peaceful region of the interior that the most successful
efforts of the English missionaries have been of late directed.

In this expedition, Captain Clapperton died of the fever of the country. His faithful servant,
Lander, after publishing his journal, returned to Africa, in 1830, with his brother, landed
at Badagry, and again crossed the country to the Niger.

At Boussa, they obtained the first authentic information of the death of Park, and recovered
his gun, robe, and other relics. Here, embarking in canoes, they ascended the river through
its rapids to Yaouri, and thence traced it to the sea in the Bight of Benin. On their way,
they discovered the Benue, which joins the Niger two hundred and seventy miles from the ocean,
with a volume of water and a width nearly equal to its own. They encountered a large number
of canoes, nearly fifty feet in length, armed in some cases with a brass six-pounder at the
bow, and each manned by sixty or seventy men actively engaged in the slave-trade. Forty of
these canoes were found together at Eboe, near the mouth of the Niger.

During the interval between the two expeditions of Lander to trace the course of this mysterious
river, France was exploring its upper waters.

In 1827, René Caillié, a Frenchman, adopting the disguise of a Mahometan, left the western
coast at Kakundy, a few miles north of Sierra Leone, and crossed the intervening highlands
to the affluents of the Niger, which he struck within two hundred and fifty miles of the coast.

He first came to the Tankesso, a rapid stream flowing into the Niger just below its cascades,
and noticed here a mountain of pale pink quartz in regular strata of eighteen inches in thickness,
a few miles below which the river flows in a wide and tranquil stream through extensive plains,
which it fertilizes by its inundations. One hundred miles below, at Boure, were rich gold mines
within twenty miles of the Niger. In the dry season, he found its waters very cold and waist-deep.

Caillié travelled by narrow paths impervious to horses or carriages, and with a party of natives
bearing merchandise on their heads. His route was through a country gradually ascending and
occasionally mountainous, but fertile in the utmost degree, and watered by numerous streams
and rivulets which kept the verdure constantly fresh, with delightful plains that required
only the labor of the husbandman to produce everything necessary for human life.

Proceeding westward, he reached the main Niger, which he found, at the close of the dry season,
and before it had received its principal tributaries, nine feet deep and nine hundred feet
in width, with a velocity of two and a half miles an hour.

To this point, where the river becomes navigable for steamers, a common road or railway of
three hundred miles in length might be easily constructed from Sierra Leone; and it is a little
surprising that Great Britain, with her solicitude to reach the interior, should not have been
tempted by the fertility, gold mines, and navigable waters in the rear of Sierra Leone, so
well pictured by Caillié, to open at least a common highway to the Niger, an enterprise which
might be effected for fifty thousand pounds. Although this may be so easily accomplished, the
principal route to the interior of Africa is still the caravan track from Tripoli through the
Desert, requiring three months by a hazardous and most fatiguing journey of fifteen hundred
miles. The first movement for a road to the interior has been recently made in Yarriba, by
T.J. Bowen, the American Baptist missionary, who pronounces it to be the prerequisite to civilization
and Christianity.

Caillié readied the Niger in May, just as the rainy reason commenced, but, finding no facilities
for descending the stream, he proceeded to the southwest, crossed many of its affluents, traversed
a rich country, and, having exposed himself to the fever and met with many detentions, finally
embarked in the succeeding March at Djenne, in a vessel of seventy tons burden, for Timbuctoo.
He describes this vessel as one hundred feet in length, fourteen feet broad, and drawing seven
feet of water. It was laden with rice, millet, and cotton, and manned by twenty-one men, who
propelled the frail bark by poles and paddles. With a flotilla of sixty of these vessels he
descended the Niger several hundred miles to Timbuctoo. He speaks of the river as varying from
half to three-fourths of a mile in width, annually overflowing its banks and irrigating a large
basin generally destitute of trees. After paying toll to the Tasaareks, a Moorish tribe, on
the way, and losing one of the flotilla, he landed safely at Timbuctoo, and probably was the
first European who visited that remote city, although Adams, an American sailor wrecked on
the coast, claims to have been carried there before as a captive.

From the narratives of Park, Clapperton, Lander, and Caillié, confirmed by Bairkie and Barth,
the latter of whom explored the banks of the Niger from Timbuctoo to Boussa, it has been ascertained
to be a noble stream, navigable for nearly twenty-five hundred miles, with an average width
of more than half a mile, and an average depth of three fathoms, --comparing favorably with
our own Mississippi. There appears to be but one portion of the stream difficult for navigation,
and that is the portion from Yaouri to Lagaba, a distance of eighty miles. In this space are
several reefs and ledges, mostly bare at low water, and the river is narrowed in width by mountains
on either side; but in the wet season it overflows its banks at this point, and is then navigated
by the larger class of canoes. There can be little doubt that it is susceptible of navigation
above and below by the largest class of river steamers, and that the rapids themselves may
in the higher stages of water be ascended by the American high-pressure steamers which navigate
our Western rivers, drawing, as they do in low stages of the Ohio and Missouri, but sixteen
to eighteen inches.

As soon as it was ascertained that the Niger reached the ocean in the Bight of Benin, and that
its upper waters had been navigated by Caillié and Park, a private association, aided by the
British government, fitted out a brig and several steamers, with a large party of scientific
men, who, in 1833, entered the Niger from the sea.

Great Britain, though enterprising and persevering, is slow in adapting means to ends, and
made a series of mistakes in her successive expeditions, which might have been avoided, if
she would have condescended to profit by the experience of her children on this side of the
Atlantic.

The expedition of 1833 was deficient in many things. The power and speed of the steamers were
insufficient, their draught of water too great, and they were so long delayed in their outfit
and in their sea-voyage that they found the river falling, and were detained by shoals and
sand-bars. The accommodations were unsuitable; and the men, exposed to a bad atmosphere among
the mangroves at the mouth of the river, and confined in the holds of the vessels, were attacked
by fever, and but ten of them survived. The expedition, however, succeeded in reaching Rabba,
on the Niger, five hundred miles from the sea, ascended the Benue, eighty miles above the confluence,
and charts were made and soundings taken for the distance explored.

In 1842 the British government made a new effort to explore the Niger, and built for that purpose
three iron steamers, the Wilberforce, Albert, and Soudan, vessels of one hundred to one hundred
and thirty-nine feet in length. The error committed in the first expedition, of too great draught,
was avoided; but the steamers had so little power and keel that their voyage to the Niger was
both tedious and hazardous, and their speed was found insufficient to make more than three
knots per hour against the current of the river. Arriving on the coast late in the season,
they were unable to ascend above the points already explored, and the officers and men, suffering
from the tedious navigation, close cabins, and effluvia from the falling river, lost one-fourth
of their number by fever, while the African Kroomen, accustomed to the climate and sleeping
on the open deck, enjoyed perfect health. It was the intention of government to establish a
model farm and mission at the confluence of the Niger and Benue; but the officers, discouraged
by sickness, abandoned their original purpose, and the expedition proved another failure, involving
a loss of at least sixty thousand pounds.

After the lapse of twelve years, it was ascertained that private steamers and sailing vessels
were resorting to the Niger, and that an active trade was springing up in palm-oil, the trees
producing which fringe the banks of the river for some hundreds of miles from the sea; and
in 1853, a Liverpool merchant, McGregor Laird, who had accompanied the former expedition, fitted
out, with the aid of government, the Pleiad steamer for a voyage up the Niger.

One would imagine that by this time the British government would have corrected their former
errors; and a part were corrected. The speed of this steamer surpassed that of her predecessors,
and her draught did not exceed five feet. She was well provided with officers, and a crew of
native Kroomen from the coast; and she was supplied with ample stores of quinine. But, singular
as it may appear, this steamer, destined, to ascend the great rivers up which the former expedition
found a strong breeze flowing daily, was not furnished with a sail; and although the banks
of the Niger were lined with forest-trees, and the supply of coal was sufficient for a few
days only, not a single axe or saw was provided for cutting wood, and the Kroomen hired from
the coast were compelled to trim off with shingle-hatchets nearly all the fuel used in ascending
the river,--and in descending, the steamer was obliged to drift down with the current. Moreover,
she was but one hundred feet in length, with an engine and boiler occupying thirty feet of
her bold,--thus leaving but thirty-five feet at each end for officers, men, and stores. Neither
state-room, cabin, nor awning was provided on deck to shelter the crew from an African sun.

With all these deficiencies, however, they achieved a partial triumph. Entering the river in
July, they ascended the southern branch, now known as the Benue, for a distance of seven hundred
miles from the sea, reaching Adamawa, a Mahometan state of the Soudan. On the fifteenth of
August they encountered the rise of waters, and found the Benue nearly a mile in width and
from one to three fathoms in depth. They observed it overflowing its banks for miles and irrigatin
extensive and fertile plains to the depth of several feet, and saw reason to believe that this
river, which flows westerly from the interior, may be navigated at least one thousand miles
from the sea. As Dr. Barth visited it at a city several hundred miles above the point reached
by the Pleiad, and found it flowing with a wide and deep current, it may be regarded as the
gateway into the interior of Africa.

One of our light Western steamers, manned by our Western boatmen and axemen, with its three
decks, lofty staterooms, superior speed, and light draught, would have been most admirably
fitted for this exploration.

But the expedition, with all its deficiencies, achieved a further triumph. Dr. Bairkie, by
using quinine freely, and by removing the beds of the officers from the stifling cabins to
the deck, escaped the loss of a single man, although four months on the river,--thus demonstrating
that the white man can reach the interior of Africa in safety, a problem quite as important
to be solved as the course and capacity of the Niger and its branches.

Thus have been opened to navigation the waters of the Mysterious River.

When the Landers first floated down the stream in their canoe, thirty years since, they found
vast forests and little cultivation, and the natives seemed to have no commerce except in slaves
and yams for their support. But an officer who accompanied the several steam expeditions was
astonished in his last visit to see the change which a few years had produced. New and populous
towns had sprung up, extensive groves of palm-trees and gardens lined the banks, and vessels
laden with oil, yams, ground-nuts, and ivory indicated the progress of legitimate commerce.

The narrative of Dr. Bairkie, a distinguished German scholar, who has written an account of
the voyage of the Pleiad, will be found both interesting and instructive; and we may some day
expect another volume, for he has returned to the scene of his adventures.

Another German in the service of Great Britain has given us a vivid picture of Central Africa
north of the equator. Dr. Henry Barth has recently published, in four octavo volumes, a narrative
of his travels in Africa for five years preceding 1857. During this period, he accompanied
the Sheik of Bornou, one of the chief Negro states of Africa, on his march as far south as
the Benue, explored the borders of Lake Tsadda, crossed the Niger at Sai, and visited the far-famed
city of Timbuctoo. Here he incurred some danger from the fanaticism of the Moslems; but his
command of Arabic, his tact and adroitness in distinguishing the Protestant worship of the
Deity from the homage paid by Roman Catholics to images of the Virgin and Saints, and in illustrating
the points in which his Protestant faith agreed with the Koran, extricated him from his embarrassment.

Dr. Barth found various Negro cities with a population ranging from fifteen to twenty thousand,
and observed large fields of rice, cotton, tobacco, and millet. On his way to Timbuctoo, he
saw a field of this last-named grain in which the stalks stood twenty-four feet high. Our Patent
Office should secure some of the seed which he has doubtless conveyed to Europe. The following
prices, which he names, give us an idea of the cheapness of products in Central Africa:--An
ox two dollars, a sheep fifty cents, tobacco one to two cents per pound.

From the sketch we have given of the Niger and its branches, and of the countries bordering
upon them, it would appear to be the proper policy of Great Britain and other commercial nations
to open a way from Sierra Leone to the Niger, and to establish a colony near the confluence
of this river with the Benue. From this point, which is easily accessible from the sea and
the ports of the British colonies on the western coast of Africa, light steamers may probably
ascend to Sego and Djenne, encountering no difficulties except at the rapids near Boussa, and
may penetrate into the heart of the Soudan. In this region are mines of lead, copper, gold,
and iron, a rich soil, adapted to cotton, rice, indigo, sugar, coffee, and vegetable butter,
with very cheap labor. With steamers controlling the rivers, a check could here be given to
the slave-trade, and to the conflicts between the Moors and Negroes, and Christianity have
a fair prospect of diffusion. Such a colony is strongly recommended by Lieutenant Allen, who
accompanied the expeditions of 1833 and 1842; and there can be no doubt that it would attract
the caravans from the remote interior, and put an end to the perilous and tedious expeditions
across the Desert.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Benvenuto Rambaldi da Imola Illustrato nella Vita e nelle Opere, e di lui Comento Latino sulla
Divina Commedia di Dante Allghieri voltalo in Italiano dall' Avvocato GIOVANNI TAMBURINI. Imola.
1855-56. 3 vol. in 8vo. [The Commentary of Benvenuto Rambaldi of Imola on the Divina Commedia,
translated from Latin into Italian, by Giovanni Tamburini.]

Almost five centuries have passed since Benvenuto of Imola, one of the most distinguished men
of letters of his time, was called by the University of Bologna to read a course of lectures
upon the "Divina Commedia" before the students at that famous seat of learning. From that time
till the present, a great part of his "Comment" has lain in manuscript, sharing the fate of
the other earliest commentaries on the poem of Dante, not one of which, save that of Boccaccio,
was given to the press till within a few years. This neglect is the more strange, since it
was from the writers of the fourteenth century, almost contemporary as they were with Dante,
that the most important illustrations both of the letter and of the sense of the "Divina Commedia"
were naturally to be looked for. When they wrote, the lapse of time had not greatly obscured
the memory of the events which the poet had recorded, or to which he had referred. The studies
with which he had been familiar, the external sources from which he had drawn inspiration,
had undergone no essential change in direction or in nature. The same traditions and beliefs
possessed the intellects of men. Similar social and political influences moulded their characters.
The distance that separated Dante from his first commentators was mainly due to the surpassing
nature of his genius, which, in some sort, made him, and still makes him, a stranger to all
men, and very little to changes like those which have slowly come about in the passage of centuries,
and which divide his modern readers from the poet.

It was the intention of Benvenuto, as he tells us, "to elucidate what was dark in the poem
being veiled under figures, and to explain what was involved in its multiplex meanings." But
his Comment is more illustrative than analytic, more literal than imaginative, and its chief
value lies in the abundance of current legends which it contains, and in the number of stories
related in it, which exhibit the manners or illustrate the history of the times. So great,
indeed, is the value of this portion of his work, that Muratori, to whom a large debt of gratitude
is due from all students of Italian history, published in 1738, in the first volume of his
"Antiquitates Italicae Medii Aevi," a selection of such passages, amounting altogether to about
one half of the whole Comment. However satisfactory this incomplete publication might be to
the mere historical investigator, the students of the "Divina Commedia" could not but regret
that the complete work had not been printed,--and they accordingly welcomed with satisfaction
the announcement, a few years since, of the volumes whose title stands at the head of this
article, which professed to contain a translation of the whole Comment. It seemed a pity, indeed,
that it should have been thought worth while to translate a book addressing itself to a very
limited number of readers, most of whom were quite as likely to understand the original Latin
as the modern Italian, while also a special value attached to the style and form in which it
was first written. But no one could have suspected what "translation" meant in the estimation
of the Signor Tamburini, whose name appears on the title-page as that of the translator.

Traduttore--traditore, "Translator--traitor," says the proverb; and of all traitors shielded
under the less offensive name, Signor Tamburini is beyond comparison the worst we have ever
had the misfortune to encounter. A place is reserved for him in that lowest depth in which,
according to Dante's system, traitors are punished.

It appears from his preface that Signor Tamburini is not without distinction in the city of
Imola. He has been President of the Literary Academy named that of "The Industrious." To have
been President of all Academy in the Roman States implies that the person bearing this honor
was either an ecclesiastic or a favorite of ecclesiastics. Hitherto, no one could hold such
an office without having his election to it confirmed by a central board of ecclesiastical
inspectors (la Sacra Congregazione degli Studj) at Rome. The reason for noticing this fact
in connection with Signor Tamburini will soon become apparent.

In his preface, Signor Tamburini declares that in the first division of the poem he has kept
his translation close to the original, while in the two later divisions he had been meno legato,
"less exact," in his rendering. This acknowledgment, however unsatisfactory to the reader,
presented at least an appearance of fairness. But, from a comparison of Signor Tamburini's
work with the portions of the original preserved by Muratori, we have satisfied ourselves that
his honesty is on a level with his capacity as a translator, and what his capacity is we propose
to enable our readers to judge for themselves. For our own part, we have been unable to distinguish
any important difference in the methods of translation followed in the three parts of the Comment.

So far as we are aware, this book has not met with its dues in Europe. The well-known Dantophilist,
Professor Blanc of Halle, speaks of it in a note to a recent essay (Versuch einer blos philogischen
Erklärung der Göttlichen Komödie, von Dr. L.G. Blanc, Halle, 1860, p. 5) as "a miserably unsatisfactory
translation," but does not give the grounds of his assertion. We intend to show that a grosser
literary imposition has seldom been attempted than in these volumes. It is an outrage on the
memory of Dante not less than on that of Benvenuto. The book is worse than worthless to students;
for it is not only full of mistakes of carelessness, stupidity, and ignorance, but also of
wilful perversions of the meaning of the original by additions, alterations, and omissions.
The three large volumes contain few pages which do not afford examples of mutilation or misrepresentation
of Benvenuto's words. We will begin our exhibition of the qualities of the Procrustean mistranslator
with an instance of his almost incredible carelessness, which is, however, excusable in comparison
with his more wilful faults. Opening the first volume at page 397, we find the following sentence,--which
we put side by side with the original as given by Muratori. The passage relates to the 33d
and succeeding verses of Canto XVI.

TAMBURINI

Qui Dante fa menzione di Guido Guerra, e meravigliano molti della modestia dell' autore, che
da costui e dalla di lui moglie tragga l'origine sua, mentre poteva derivarla care di gratitudine
affettuosa a quella,--Gualdrada,--stipito suo,--dandole nome e tramandandola quasi all' eternità,
mentre per sè stessa sarebbe forse rimasta sconosciuta.

BENVENUTO.

