    The influence of Prince Adam Czartoryski proved to be singularly
    useful to Poland after the downfall of Napoleon. He interposed,
    and interposed successfully, between the anger of Alexander and
    his suffering country; and, on the establishment of the kingdom
    of Poland, was appointed the curator of all the universities,
    both there and in the incorporated provinces. These duties he
    sedulously discharged, until he was superseded by the notorious
    Count Novozilzoff. From this period he has lived in retirement,
    faithfully performing all the duties of private life. The
    promotion of agriculture, science in all its branches, and
    kindly offices among mankind, constituted his occupations until
    recent events drew him from his privacy. The first call was made
    by the Russian functionaries, as stated in the text, for the
    purpose of self-protection! the second was that of his devoted
    country, when a government was essential to success. He was
    chosen not only one of the five members of the executive body,
    but its president, a station which he still honourably fills.
    Into his new office he has carried all the unostentatious and
    disinterested virtues that adorned Pulawy, and there is little
    doubt that if (and no one suspects that such will not be the
    case) the independence of Poland be fairly won, the choice of
    his country will point to him as its sovereign. Having finished
    his academical career at the University of Edinburgh, he early
    acquired a strong taste for English institutions and for
    Englishmen, and of this he gave substantial proof by devoting
    250 l. a-year to the exclusive purchase of English books. His
    revenues are enormous; but his liberality is unbounded; and, as
    it is a rule in his munificent establishment to provide
    liberally for the families of all his dependants, his means are
    comparatively restricted, but his personal wants are few; and
    that he is ready to accommodate himself to circumstances, was
    well shown by his only observation on hearing of the
    confiscation of his large property in Podolia by Nicholas.
    "Instead of riding, I must walk, and instead of sumptuous fare,
    I must dine on buck-wheat."[3] Such is a faint outline of this
    illustrious man's character. Were it only for the admirable
    example of such an individual guiding the reigns of the
    government of a devoted people, it is most ardently to be hoped
    that Poland may triumph over her enemies, and be raised to that
    rank from which she was degraded only by the basest of
    treasons.--Fletcher's History of Poland.

    [3] The common food of the poor.

As the pronunciation of the Polish language is attended with some difficulty, the author of
this work has, in his advertisement, subjoined the following hints, taken principally from
the "Letters Literary and Political on Poland, Edinburgh, 1823."

All vowels are sounded as in French and Italian; and there are no diphthongs, every vowel being
pronounced distinctly. The consonants are the same as in English, except

w, which is sounded like v, at the beginning of a word; thus, Warsawa--Varsafa; in the middle
or at the end of a word it has the sound of f, as in the instance already cited; and Narew--Nareff.

c, like tz, and never like k; thus, Pac is sounded Patz.

g, like g in Gibbon; thus, Oginski.

ch, like the Greek [Greek: ch] or k; thus, Lech--Lek.

cz, like the English tch in pitch;--thus, Czartoryski pronounce Tchartoryski.

sz, like sh in shape; thus, Staszyc like Stashytz.

szcz, like shtch; thus, Szczerbiec like Shtcherbietz.

rz, like j in je, with a slight sound of r; thus, Rzewuski--Rjevuski.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHITE'S BAMPTON LECTURES.

Dr. Dibdin has prefixed the subsequent Note to one of these Lectures (Character of Christ compared
with that of Mahomet), which he has reprinted in vol. iii. of the Sunday Library:--

    "Of all the sermons preached in this, or in any other country,
    THESE are perhaps the most celebrated; or, if this observation
    require qualification, the only exception may be in favour of
    those of the Petit Carême of MASILLON. For three successive
    terms, the church of St. Mary's, at Oxford, was crowded with an
    auditory breathless in admiration of the splendour of diction
    and vividness of imagery manifested in these discourses. The
    subject treated of--'A Comparison of Mahometanism and
    Christianity in their History, their Evidences, and their
    Effects'--was new and striking in the pulpit of the University
    Church. A great deal of highly wrought expectation, from more
    than a whisper spread abroad of the sources whence the chief
    materials had been derived, preceded their publicity; and the
    preacher, although by no means remarkable for elegance of
    manner, or ductility and melody of voice, applied his whole
    energies to the task of giving power and effect to his delivery.
    He succeeded, greatly beyond his own expectations; and the
    University rung with his praises. The fame which ensued was
    merited; for the public, till then satisfied with the tame
    polish and cold invective of BLAIR, became delighted by the
    union of such harmony of language, skilfulness of argument, and
    singularity of research, as were blended in these lectures. Yet
    it may be questioned, not only whether a display of similar
    talent would now receive the like applause, but whether many
    subsequent courses of Bampton lectures have not rendered a more
    essential service to Christianity.

