THE SECRET OF DREAMS

by

YACKI RAIZIZUN, PH. D.

Price, Fifty Cents

CONTENTS

  The Dreamer                               5

  Varieties of Dreams                      12

  How to Evolve the Large Consciousness    37

DREAMS

Everybody dreams, but there are few who place any importance to the phenomena of sleep. Before
we can begin to comprehend or even analyze dreams, whether our dreams are symbolic or otherwise,
we must first divert from our mind our materialistic conceptions of what the individual called
man really is. The external or physical man, is no more the man than the coat he wears. The
physical man is only an instrument of which the real inner man or soul expresses itself in
the physical universe. Various materialistic theories have been given in the past, trying to
explain the mighty phenomena of dreams, but these theories have always been more or less unsatisfactory.
Why? Because the-materialist tries to explain the riddle of human existence without an individual
human spirit his explanation will always be unsatisfactory.

Dreams afford a separation of soul and body. As soon as the senses become torpid, the inner
man withdraws from the outer. There are three different ways which afford this separation.
First, natural sleep. Second, induced sleep, such as hypnotism, mesmerism or trance. Third,
death. In the above two cases the man has only left his physical body temporarily, whereas
in death he has left it forever. In the case of death, the link which unites soul and body,
as seen by clairvoyant vision, is broken, but in trance or sleep it is released. The real man
is then in the astral world. He now functions in his astral body, which becomes a vehicle for
expressing consciousness, just as the physical body is an instrument for expressing consciousness
in the waking state.

Consciousness is not annihilated when the man is in the Astral world, it is only temporarily
suspended. Just the same as in the case of death. The man is fully conscious in the astral
regions clothed in the body of the Astral matter. This Astral body is in the physical and extends
little beyond it. The Astral world is here and now, interpenetrating the physical, and not
in some remote region above the clouds as so many imagine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Man is a soul. He has a body. He expresses himself in three worlds. While he functions in the
physical body, viz., physical, emotional and mental worlds. Just as the Astral interpenetrates
the physical the mental interpenetrates the Astral. The Astral body in which man functions
during sleep is the body of emotions and desires and he expresses these desires and emotions
in the physical life.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Astral body in which man functions during sleep is very subtle matter. It resembles the
physical. In fact, it is an exact reproduction of it, but it can only be seen by clairvoyant
vision. When a man leaves his body in sleep or death, the spirit must leave the physical body
before it will be rested and recuperated to enable it to undergo the strenuous daily toil of
physical life.

Here is an example. Let a man go to bed say ten o'clock. Let him sleep until six next morning.
The ordinary man will awaken feeling refreshed and ready for his daily toil. Let him go to
bed at ten, lie awake all night, next morning he will not feel refreshed and during the day
he may feel sluggish and sleepy. Let him go to bed and lie awake night after night for a few
weeks, what will be the result? He will be a physical wreck. Although he may have the same
amount of hours lying in bed, he will not feel recuperated and refreshed unless he has had
his natural sleep and this can only come to pass.

When the soul or spirit withdraws from the physical body, the physical body is not the man,
and as long as our materialistic writers who endeavor to interpret dreams fail to grasp the
nature of the inner man, the real self, they will be forever groping in the dark.

The first question that naturally arises in the mind of the layman is this: How can a man leave
his body in sleep and continue its natural functions such as digestion, circulation of blood, etc.

We do not consciously direct the circulation of the blood, or any of the natural bodily functions
during our waking state. These things go on whether we will them or not. Although the spirit
leaves the body in sleep as previously stated, there is still a magnetic connection with soul
and body. This magnetic connection acts on the sympathetic nervous system and the cerebro spinal
which controls the functions of the human organism. In sleep the astral man may be in the immediate
vicinity of his sleeping recuperating physical body or it may be thousands of miles away in
space, the magnetic connection still exists regardless of the distance. No matter what distance
the astral man is away from his physical body, he can return to it with the rapidity of thought,
as the saying is, for it is the soul that thinks, the brain is only an instrument of the soul.

Many of our dreams may be attributed to subconscious memory, for when our mind is centered
on a certain train of thought these thoughts are apt to filter through into the conscious state
in sleep. The subconscious memory cannot be truthfully called a dream, for it is only a memory
of something we have previously perceived in reality or imagination. One only has to examine
his subconscious dream in the light of reason to eliminate them. Telepathy does explain some
of our dreams, for just as it is possible for minds to receive telepathic communications (thought
transference) from another in the walking state, it is also possible for the so-called dead
to have telepathic communication with the living, for thought is a power, its limitation is
unknown.

While many of our dreams may be traced to subconscious memory or telepathy and happenings of
material affairs of our daily lives, others are undoubtedly the astral happenings of the ego
while functioning in the etheric regions. There we meet not only the misnamed dead but also
many of those who are still in the physical body, and let me state here that many of our difficult
problems of physical life are worked out in sleep.

The old axiom, "I will go to sleep on it," has a greater significance than is generally attributed
to it, for sleep and dreams have more to do in shaping your lives than you have any idea of.
You can go to school in sleep and study anything you are studying in physical life and make
marvelous progress. This requires much training, however. Keeping the mind free from evil thoughts
is most essential to enable the sincere investigator to enter that larger state of consciousness,
for the thoughts of our waking state have a more or less effect on the ego during sleep. Every
individual harbors a certain train of thought, whether at business or pleasure this train of
thought has a tremendous influence on the ego, in fact it shapes ones destiny.

     Choose well your thoughts
       for your choice
       is brief and yet endless.
       --Anna Besant in Thought Power

Man may be said to live two lives in one, one when he is fully awake and the other when he
is sound asleep. These two lives, of course, is the expression of his one existence. The highly
developed, spiritual man as he retires into the interior world during sleep, realizes a state
of spiritual bliss that is far beyond the stage of ordinary mortals. Man has been in the habit
of looking at himself as a mass of flesh and muscle with a slight chance of realizing the Divinity
within him. As the earnest soul gradually arouses himself he finds his proper place in the
universe, for within him are all the attributes of deity, and when he reaches the end of the
long evolutionary journey that is ahead of him he will find himself and know what he is destined
to be, a God.

VARIETIES OF DREAMS

In order to distinguish and classify the different kinds of dreams in which everyone has an
experience they may be divided into four variations. Nearly all dreams may be classified under
this heading:

  1. Physical Stimulus.

  2. Subconscious memory.

  3. Telepathy.

  4. The Actual Astral experience of the Ego or Soul in the Astral
       region.

Physical Stimulus may be the direct cause of impressing certain ideas on the physical brain
which may appear to be a reality. The falling of a book, picture or any article in the room
may cause the sleeper to dream of firearms; a soldier may dream of a battlefield; a sensitive
female may dream it is a burglar; a person who throws the bed clothes off him on a cold night
may dream of snow and ice; the continual dropping of water from a faucet in the room of the
sleeper has been the direct cause of a friend of mine dreaming of a passenger train; the steady
tramping of footsteps overhead may be the cause of dreaming of thunder storms, etc. We must
also take into consideration the physical and mental environments of the sleeper.

THE SUBCONSCIOUS MEMORY

The subconscious memory may be the direct cause of certain dreams. When the mind is centered
on certain things, the sleeper goes over his life again and again in phantom fashion. He lives
over the experiences of his daily life. Very often the ego enlightens the sleeper of some material
thing for his own benefit, which he may use advantageously in his waking state, but as he generally
looks at the phenomena of dreams as an hallucination of the brain, he allows many a golden
opportunity to slip through his fingers because the materialist's brain cannot grasp things
of the spirit.

All the knowledge and rubbish of our past lives is stored up in the subconscious mind where
it remains in minute form. Memory is only the awakening of the sub-conscious mind, a long and
forgotten incident, that has made a deep impression on the mind, is apt to filter through into
the conscious state in dreams. In time of illness or when one's vitality is low, the dream
picture of the past is apt to play a very prominent part in one's sleep. Childhood and long-forgotten
scenes come up frequently and appear as real and genuine as if they had only happened the previous
day. They frequently give the dreamer joy or sorrow, according to the stages he passed through.

Even action of past lives may come up into the subconscious. Dreams of running around nude
without any feeling of shame may be the memory of a previous existence. Falling from a high
cliff or trees. Being chased around by some wild animals may be attributed to a primitive past.
Dreaming of primitive people, places and things, only takes the dreamer a step nearer the stone
age, from whence he came. Instead of looking at these subconscious dreams with horror and dread
as some people do they should study them and shape their lives accordingly.

TELEPATHIC DREAMS OR THOUGH TRANSFERENCE.

Telepathy is a known and established fact. The connection between minds without material means
of any kind, has often been demonstrated by the very simple method of one person acting as
a sender, while the other acts as a receiver. The sender thinks of a certain subject selected
before-hand. He may write it down on slate or paper. This often helps him to keep his mind
concentrated on the subject he wishes to send to the receiver. The receiver places himself
in as receptive a position as possible, and Keeping his mind calm, the impression he receives
he makes note of. After a few experiences he may find the message to be correct, word for word.
This is telepathy.

In sleep there is often telepathic conditions between minds who are in close sympathy with
each other, such as man and wife, mother and children, or people whose business brings them
close together, may exchange thoughts during sleep. For instance, in one case a mother received
the thought of her boy, who was away from home, telling of his sickness. A few days later she
received a letter verifying her dream. A salesman dreams of a friend telling him of his company
doing a big business in a neighboring town. Upon his friend's return his dream was found to
be correct.

A lady in San Francisco (whose husband was in Australia) for three successive nights, dreamed
of his returning to America. She did not expect him until early in the fall of the year. She
was dreaming of him in the spring. On the fourth morning after her dream she received a letter
telling her about his unexpected return. These are so-called telepathic dreams, usually from
minds of living people, although telepathic connection from minds of disincarnate beings is
possible.

THE ACTUAL ASTRAL EXPERIENCE OF THE EGO DURING SLEEP IN THE ASTRAL WORLD.

The actual Astral experience in which the ego sees distant sights, sights and visions which
he knows do not actually exist upon the physical plane, such as communicating with the dead,
recovery of lost and stolen property; having premonitions of a certain thing which actually
happens, such as approaching danger or death.

Above are but a few of the actual astral experiences of the ego which it endeavors to impress
on the physical brain. Sometimes it impresses them by symbols, for symbols are the true language
of the soul, and to know how to interpret the meaning of the symbols of your dreams is of the
utmost importance to the beginner. A symbolic dream, which is an actual astral experience,
can only be interpreted by the dreamer himself, for no one lives your life but yourself. The
first impression you receive intuitively, of a dream you see symbolically, is usually correct.
The reason the layman does not interpret his dreams correctly, by following his intuition,
is because he generally has some material idea of his own concerning dreams.

Here is a dream that may be said to be an actual experience of the ego. Taken from the Chicago
American, July 17, 1920:

     Dreams sons drowned; found bodies in river, Burlington, Vt.
     The dream was responsible for the finding of the bodies of
     George Raymond, Jr., 14 years, son of George Raymond, and
     his uncle, Winford Raymond, in the Lamoille river at
     Fletcher. According to Winford's father, the vision of the
     boy's mother appeared before him in a dream and directed him
     to look for the boys in the river. They had been absent from
     home since Sunday. The dream was so vivid that the father
     wakened and at 2 o'clock went to the river bank, where he
     found the boys' clothing. At daybreak the bodies were
     recovered.

Here is a dream of the so-called dead who, many believe, exist in a state of dreamless sleep
or annihilation, appearing in a vision, and so impressing on the astral brain of the sleeper
where the boy's bodies were, that he actually brought the vision or astral experience through
into the waking consciousness. Here is proof of a mother looking over her children, even if
she is separated from them through the doorway of the tomb. No sane person today can actually
believe the tomb to be the doorway to the night of oblivion. Many of the misnamed dead are
present, and when we go to sleep at night we meet them and converse with them just the same
as if they were inhabiting their mortal bodies.

We do not claim, however, that the dead are all-knowing; but free from the physical bodies,
the spiritually enlightened ones have a broader vision of things, especially if there is a
close sympathetic feeling between the dead and the living, as there appeared to have been in
this case, for the conditions must be absolutely harmonious before one may bring his actual
astral experience into the waking consciousness.

An interesting case of the dead appearing in a dream was as that of Mrs. Marie Menge, 15 West
Schiller street, Chicago. Mr. Charles Peterson, former lieutenant of the Danish army, was a
roomer with Mrs. Menge for a number of years. He had no relatives or near friends in America.
Mr. Peterson had been ill for some time with asthma and finally was taken to the Hahnemann
Hospital, 2814 Ellis avenue, Chicago. In less than a half hour before she received the telephone
call telling of his death she suddenly awakened and told her husband Mr. Peterson had appeared
to her in a dream. She states, he appeared in a white cloud and seemed well and happy. He died
about 1:30 A.M., Saturday, March 18, 1921.

It was an easy matter for C. Peterson to appear in a vision to the only one who had shown any
sympathy and kindness toward him during his illness, and his landlady being asleep, was functioning
in her astral body, which becomes a vehicle of consciousness, and as there was sympathy between
the two it was possible for her to retain her astral vision in waking suddenly as she did.

The dead are not dead at all, as many imagine. This man is only physically dead because he
has lost his physical body. He is not intellectually and emotionally dead because he has not
lost that part of his mechanism of consciousness which is the seat of thought and emotion.
The physical body only allows us to express ourselves in the physical world, but it is not
the man, any more than the clothes he wears.

Extract from the Sunday Herald-Examiner, May 8, 1921:

     NEW GHOSTS ARE WRITING POETRY BY UNIVERSAL SERVICE.

     Paris, May 7.--Can a ghost write poetry? You betcha, says
     Baron Maurice de Waleffe, the French satirist, who tells of
     a remarkable book of spirits' poems just published in Paris
     under the title of "The Glory of Illusion."

Three years ago died Judith Gautier, niece of Theophile Gautier, and left a collection of slightly--er--passionate
novels and collections of poems which were circulated among friends. One of these friends was
a girl, Judith's most intimate companion. A year after Judith's death this girl dreamed a dream.
In the dream Judith appeared and commanded her to seize a pencil and write to dictation. The
result was a series of poems of an exoteric character which are triumphs of meter and scan
perfectly. They are published in the name of the girl friend, Mlle. S. Meyer Zundel, but Mlle.
Zundel says they're not really her works at all, but were directly dictated by her dead friend.
Previous to Judith's death, Mlle. Zundel says she never wrote a line of poetry.

Here we have direct proof of an invisible intelligence directing this young lady to write poems
which she admits she never wrote before her friend's death. The materialistic skeptic who is
always ready to interpret dreams as coincidences cannot call this a coincidence before the
testimony of such facts when they are brought to the eyes of an intelligent public. The would-be
interpreter of human existence remains baffled and silent; they can neither deny these facts
nor do they dare to explain them.

Friday, May 6, 1921, Chicago Daily News (by Marion Holmes):

     Dear Marion Holmes: I should like just out of curiosity to
     get the opinion of some of your corner readers, as well as
     your own, on the enclosed sketch of a dream I had when
     working out west. About 26 years ago I was working in the
     West near the mining country, and one night I dreamed I was
     in a mining town, the name of which I did not know in my
     dream, nor had I ever seen it in reality. I was crossing the
     street to a store building painted white, and in my hand I
     carried an envelope that I was to deliver to the boss of the
     store. When I arrived at the center of the street I was met
     by three men who were coming from the opposite side, one of
     whom stopped me, saying: "Come with me and I will show you
     where there is a gold mine." I replied: "I haven't time to
     go now," but he insisted, "Well, come anyway and when you
     have time you can go and get it." So I went. We started off
     in the direction of what I have since learned is the richest
     locality in gold mines and after walking a while we seemed
     to float through space; then we came to the ground a few
     feet from the top of the mountain. We walked up to the top
     and again floated in the air in a semi-circle, landing at
     the foot of another mountain a few miles to the west.

     The stranger said: "I want you to note the peculiar
     formation of this country and this stream and right here,
     walking a short distance, is where you will find the gold."
     About three months later I decided to return to Chicago, and
     in the train I met a cigar salesman who, as we soon became
     friendly, insisted that I should locate in one of the towns
     on his route and gave me a letter to a certain friend of his
     in the mining district. When the friend had read the letter
     he wrote another to a friend of his own on whom I was to
     call. As I went down the street I carried the letter in my
     hand and as I crossed the street I stopped short, for the
     store I sought was the store of my dream.

     Three years ago at a summer resort where a company of us
     were telling strange dreams, I remarked that the weak part
     of my dream was that one of my guides was supposed to be a
     dead relative of my own, and my mother remarked at once, "I
     had an uncle, a prospector, who died out West in the mining
     country, but nobody ever knew just where."

     Chicago.

CURIOUS.

MARION HOLMES' ANSWER.

Dr. Peterson, the New York neurologist, in a recent magazine article on dreams and their meaning,
points out that many dreams thought to be prophetic can be accounted for physiologically and
avers that there never was a purely prophetic dream. He would contend, no doubt, that your
waking thoughts having been a good deal engaged with Western life, your dream carried the same
train of thought straight through. He would probably characterize the incidents of the rich
mines, the store and the relative as merely coincidental, yet as the writer of a text-book
on mental philosophy observes, to call such dreams coincidences leaves the mystery as great
as before.

It is evident Curious is not as curious as what he signs himself. If he had investigated his
dream he may have found it to his advantage.

       *       *       *       *       *

WARDEN DREAMS OF JAIL DELIVERY--FOILS ATTEMPT.

     Chicago American, February 24, 1921.

     New Orleans, Feb. 24.--Because Capt. H.J. Ruffier, warden of
     the House of Detention, dreamed there was a jail delivery
     on, a general effort to escape from the prison was
     frustrated. Forty prisoners confined in one big room, on the
     Tulane avenue side of the building, were detected working at
     the bars of a window and picking at brickworks under another
     window when discovered.

This dream may be attributed to mental telepathy. The prisoners evidently have been planning
their escape for days. (Creating thought forms.) It was possible for the warden in sleep, out
of his body, to be mentally impressed of the delivery and bring it through into waking consciousness.

       *       *       *       *       *

DREAMING TO SOME PURPOSE.

     Chicago Daily News, February 24, 1921.

     Huntington, W. Va.--Mrs. Mattie Estep was told in a dream to
     write songs. She did so, and two of them were accepted and
     published in New York.

PAINTS PICTURE IN DREAM, GHOST GUIDES HER BRUSH.

Chicago Evening American, June 8, 1921.

Peoria is all excited today over the announcement by Benjamin H. Serkowich of the Peoria Art
League that a canvas painted by a woman in her dream with the hand of the immortal and long
since departed Whistler guiding her brush, is on display at a local theater mezzanine floor
which gave space to the annual exhibit of the League.

Mrs. William Hawley Smith, wife of Dr. W.H. Smith of Peoria, is the woman. She and her husband
are among the wealthiest and most socially prominent families in Peoria.

Dr. William Hawley Smith is well known as a student and writer on sociological problems. Both
he and Mrs. Smith claim to have frequently received spirit messages from the dead. Several
weeks ago Mrs. Smith says she was sleeping soundly when Whistler appeared in a dream. The famous
artist commanded her to don her artist smock and get her brushes, paints and palette; then
she translated to canvas the instructions he imparted, and frequently his hand guided her brush.
She worked feverishly all night, and in the morning awoke fatigued, but the picture was finished.

     Chicago Tribune, Saturday, March 12, 1921.

     Dreams being led to hiding place of missing girls. Mother's
     vision of her daughter comes true. Girl of my dreams. Sounds
     like the title of a new song, doesn't it. The girl is Evelyn
     Niedziezko, 17 years old. She lives at 3939 South Campbell
     avenue. Last Wednesday night she disappeared from home. That
     night and on Thursday night her mother dreamed of her. In
     both dreams she saw her daughter enter a flat building. It
     seems to her in her dreams it was on Cottage Grove avenue,
     near 27th street. Last night Mrs. Niedziezko reported the
     girl's disappearance to the police. Lieut. Ben Burns, to
     whom the mother talked, asked her if she had any idea as to
     where the girl might be staying. She told her dreams.

     TOLD TO GO THROUGH WITH IT.

     "Do you think it would be any use to go over to Cottage
     Grove avenue and look around?" she asked. "I haven't much
     faith in dreams myself, and I guess the police would think I
     was crazy if I asked them to make a search on the strength
     of a dream." Lieut. Burns believes in dreams and hunches and
     such things, and he advised Mrs. Niedziezko to go through
     with it. Mrs. Niedziezko went over to Cottage Grove avenue,
     and walked around until she saw a flat building that looked
     just like the picture that had come to her that night in her
     vision. She had seen her girl sitting in a dining room of
     such a flat. The house proved to be 2727, mystic numbers.
     The family of William Llewellyn lives there.

     GET POLICE TO HELP FIND GIRLS.

     Mrs. Niedziezko went to the Cottage Grove avenue Police
     Station, and asked for help to search the flat for her girl.
     She did not say anything about her dream for fear they would
     laugh at her. Detectives Pieroth and Fitzgerald accompanied
     her to the building. In answer to the ring Evelyn herself
     came to the door. Evelyn had been visiting a friend.

The mother had, no doubt, been thinking daily of her daughter's disappearance and unconsciously
impressed the idea on the ego, and as the ego carries out the impressions of our waking state,
she actually brought the knowledge of her astral experience into the waking consciousness,
and the intense desire on the mother's part was the direct cause of her bringing the same experience
through two successive nights, showing the ego can impress on the mind important information.
The ego is also the source of premonitory dreams.

HAS PREMONITION--DROPS DEAD IN HOTEL LA SALLE.

     Chicago Evening American, Friday, March 25, 1921.

     Christian H. Ronne, 60, president of the C.H. Ronne
     Warehouse, 372 West Ontario street, dropped dead in the
     Traffic Club on the eighteenth floor of the Hotel La Salle
     two weeks after he had informed his son-in-law, C.A.
     Christensen, cashier of the Mid-City Trust and Savings Bank,
     of a premonition of death.

LOCKLEAR FORECAST DEATH--FRIEND OF AVIATOR TELLS OF STUNT-FLYER'S PREMONITION.

     Chicago Evening American, Aug. 4, 1920.

     Fort Dodge, Ia., Aug. 4.--Lieut. Homer Locklear, famous
     stunt flyer, killed in a fall at Los Angeles, Monday
     evening, had a premonition several weeks ago that he would
     meet his death this summer, according to Shirley Short,
     Goldfield Iowa, original Locklear pilot. Short was married
     recently and is passing his honeymoon at his home. He left
     Locklear in Canada three weeks ago and had planned to rejoin
     him in a week. "For more than a year we went together doing
     stunts," said Short. "During that time Locklear laughed at
     the idea of danger until about a month ago. It was shortly
     after I left him that he became depressed and told me
     several times that he would get knocked off this summer. It
     worried me because it was so unlike Locklear."

WRITES DEATH POEM ON FATAL PLANE FLIGHT.

     Chicago Evening American, June 11, 1921.

     Washington, June 1.--How Lieut. Cleveland W. McDermott
     penned a death poem in the plane in which he and six others
     were crashed to death Saturday night was revealed here
     today.

It is the story of perhaps the most remarkable premonition of death that ever has been recorded
before the fatal flight. McDermott, who was a seasoned world-war veteran and accustomed to
hazardous flights, wrote seven letters to as many friends. These he placed in the hands of
a fellow officer with instructions that they be mailed in the event of his death. The poem
was discovered in the lieutenant's personal effects, written on a piece of scratch paper. It
had been stuffed in a breast pocket of his uniform. The writing was scraggly, due to the vibration
of the motors. This is the death poem:

     Another hour and far away I fly;
     A last farewell to my friends I cry;
     Then up to the rosy dawn in flight;
     A battle with the elements I must fight.
     Lost in the fog and mist and rain;
     Tossed hither and yonder I strive in vain
     To again win out as I have in the past;
     Little I knew this was to be my last.
     Sharp crash, and my wings are broken back;
     Every wire is useless with too much slack.
     Down, down I swirl and slip and spin;
     Thinking only of all my worldly sin.
     The earth seems rushing up to me;
     While rigged crags raise their heads to greet me.
     As twisting and twirling downward I swirl;
     I bid a sad good-bye to a little girl.
     Lower down into the trees I crash;
     My plane and I have gone to smash.
     Up from the Mass call me,
     My untouched, unfettered spirit flies
     Straight to mother's waiting overhead.

Although no one, so far as is known, saw Lieutenant McDermott write the poem, his fellow officers
at Golding field pointed out today that every indication points to it having been written during
the hour preceding the fatal crash. His first act following the premonition was to write the
farewell letters, said a fellow officer today. The poem obviously was written under the vibration
of engines, so it follows it must have been set down during the last few minutes of his life.
The officer to whom Lieutenant McDermott intrusted the farewell letters mailed them a few minutes
after he heard of the fatality.

In this case the premonition seems to have served its purpose advantageously. Death had no
terrors for Lieutenant McDermott.

SON'S DREAM LOCATES HIS FATHER'S BODY.

     Chicago Herald-Examiner, Thursday, June 23, 1921

     Dickinson, N.D., June 22--A dream in which he saw the spot
     where his father's body lay led Raymond Everetts, 11, to
     discover the body yesterday. Tom Everetts, the father, was
     one of three section men drowned by a flood near Medora
     Saturday. Several years ago the boy announced the death of
     an aunt shortly before a telegram confirmed his prophesy.

When the ego impresses the lower mind of approaching danger, in dreams or otherwise, it is
simply for the individual to be prepared for what is in store for him, just as a wise physician
tells his patient when the end is near to be prepared.

Miss Miller, 375 Brenner street, Muncie, Germany, had a premonition of her brother drowning.
She states:

     "My brother was a great swimmer. Two weeks before he was
     drowned I had a premonition of his death. In my dream I saw
     him diving into the river. His head struck a rock, then I
     saw his lifeless body float before me for three successive
     nights. I told him of my dream. I begged him not to go
     bathing, but he only laughed at me, saying, 'I can protect
     myself in the water.' His death was the exact working out of
     the premonition of his death."

The student of dream-lore knows the ego is ever watchful, and it always impresses the lower
mind when danger approaches. There are also cases which appear to indicate when the ego is
unable to impress the individual. The information is often conveyed through another person,
as the above would indicate, who is sensitive enough to bring the information in the waking state.

HOW TO EVOLVE THE LARGER CONSCIOUSNESS.

It is a very difficult matter for the layman to bring his actual astral experiences into the
waking state (but fortunately for us) any faculty that is lacking may be evolved. It takes
a very sensitive instrument to register all that is seen, heard and done while out of the body.
It also requires physical, emotional and mental harmony, or the dreamer is apt to mistake an
actual astral experience for an automaton of the physical brain, or vice versa. To what extent
the ego would guide us and warn us, if we were only sensitive and responsive to the delicate
vibrations sent down into the physical brain, it is impossible to guess, says L.W. Rogers in
his volume, "Dreams and Premonitions." The extent by which we are guided and warned from the
ego depends upon how much we are not swayed by our physical methods of artificial civilization
implying the power to impress the astral experience on the physical brain.

The habit of our scattering thoughts must also be brought under control. One must be able to
concentrate his mind on what he wants to think about. Camille Flammarion says nineteen-hundredths
of the human family never think at all. They are merely shallow receptives for the thoughts
of others. As you acquire the habit of controlling your thoughts and with the emotions well
under control, then you begin to turn the consciousness back upon self, and as the sleeper
lays his body down to rest he gives the ego an opportunity to impress itself on the lower mind.
Gradually the mind is brought under control. This connects the two different states of consciousness.
At first you begin to see pictures, landscapes, faces, etc., only for a flash. Then you will
fall into unconsciousness. Once this state is attained, if continued the rest will not be so
difficult.

With practice, you will be conscious of yourself leaving your body, conscious of yourself looking
down on your body asleep, and seeing yourself going on a journey to inspire a friend or to
acquire some knowledge of something you are studying in physical life. In this way you make
your nights, as well as your days, to be of assistance to others. Your nights may be made useful
even if you are not conscious of yourself out of the body, by suggesting to yourself upon retiring,
that you will go somewhere, and meet some one and assist them in an unselfish act. If you persist
in your suggestion on retiring, your spirit will go where you demand it to go, although you
may not remember your experience in your waking state.

Just as it is possible for you to render help to another in sleep, so you can influence them
for a good purpose. It is also possible for you to influence another selfishly, and let me
warn you here, if you do, you are practicing black art, and as surely as night follows day
it will return and burn you as you justly deserve, so beware and think well before you act.
He who dabbles in occult teachings for selfish ends treads on dangerous ground, and he will
not attain his desires, but rather the reverse. The unselfish soul who acts unselfishly can
be of much service to his fellow-man, not only the living but also the misnamed dead, and they
can often remember their astral happenings in waking consciousness to the minutest detail.
This requires rigid training.

The beginner will find it to his advantage, to resolve before falling asleep that he will bring
his astral experience through into his waking consciousness. It is also well to keep a notebook
at hand and write down your dreams in the morning, if you cannot remember your dreams.

Speak to no one. Do not leave your sleeping chamber. Before the day is many hours old your
dream will come to you. In this way if the student is patient and sincere he will, in time,
be able to find out many things of the invisible realm where his soul functions during the
time his body sleeps. I do not claim that our physical plane affairs should be guided entirely
by dreams, nor are dreams of the fortune-telling variety to be relied upon. You must use your
reason and judgment in this the same as anything else, and only when the student has attained
to that point in his development where there is no break in consciousness, may he be guided
by the astral life. The mystic, and sages, go beyond the astral life. They go into a state
of dreamlessness. Listen to what a great mystic said:

     "In waking state we are conscious of the objective universe.
     In dreaming we are conscious of the inner world. Then we are
     of great help to the living, and also the misnamed dead. In
     dreamlessness the true seer turns the light of consciousness
     back upon itself and in its own light sees the gloom of
     nothingness. Imagine for a moment the absolute non-existence
     of the vast world devoid of sight and sound. What remains a
     vast space. Imagine the vast space to be void of ether and
     the subtle seeds of creation. Perfect stillness reigns
     supreme over the ocean of universal space, beginningless and
     endless. What supports it? It is supportless, soundless,
     cloudless. He does not see. Yet he is not blind, does not
     hear, yet he is not deaf. He goes beyond the feeling of time
     and space. Every time the true seer enters a state of
     dreamless sleep he enjoys the span of Ethereal Glory; his
     consciousness is centered in the bosom of the Absolute."

LIST OF BOOKS

BY YACKI RAIZIZUN

Breathing Exercise--Price, 15c, Paper Cover, Postage Free.

The Psychology of Success--Price, 35c, Paper Cover, Postage Free.

The Secret of Dreams--Price, 50c, Paper Cover, Postage Free.

Reincarnation Lecture--Price, 25c, Paper Cover, Postage Free.

Unfired Food and Trophotherapy--Price $4.00, By GEORGE J. DREWS, AL. D.N.D., Bound in Black
Cloth, Postage Free.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADDRESS ALL ORDERS TO:

     YACKI RAIZIZUN
     ---- West Schiller Street
     Chicago, Illinois.

