Nevertheless, his course had simplified her action; it had decided her that all was over between
them. The case was hopeless now; for neither could yield without becoming untrue to themselves,
and there could be no happy union in such radical diversity. The less often they met the better,
as he only made her course the harder to maintain and the separation more painful than it had
been before.

She might hide her unhappiness, but she could not banish the resulting despondency and flagging
strength. Her aunt had half forced an explanation of the reason why she was alone with Clancy,
and, in hasty self-defence, she admitted a resolve to know with certainty whether he had spoken
the words charged against him. When Mrs. Hunter learned that he had acknowledged the truth
of the story, she spoke of him with redoubled bitterness, making it hard indeed for Mara to
listen, for her heart took his side almost passionately. Unintentionally Mrs. Hunter proved
herself the young man's best ally, yet Mara outwardly was compelled to acquiesce, for she herself
had proved the enormity which was to end everything. Consistency, however, was torn to tatters
one day, and she said in sudden passion, "Aunty, never mention Mr. Clancy's name again. I demand
this as my right."

When Mara spoke in this manner Mrs. Hunter yielded. Indeed she was not a little perplexed over
the girl who had been so passive and subservient. She was not a profound reasoner upon any
subject, nor could she understand how one step, even though Mara had been driven to it by hard
necessity, led to many others. The girl had begun to assert her individual life, and her nature,
once awakened, was proving a strong one. Deepening and widening experience perplexed and troubled
her unguided mind, and prepared the way for doubtful experiments.

As before, Aun' Sheba was quick to discover that all was not well with Mara, but believed that
she, like herself, was working beyond her strength. The old woman had a bad cold and was feeling
"rudder po'ly" one evening when her minister came to pay a pastoral visit.

On so momentous an occasion as this, her son-in-law Kern Watson and his wife and children were
summoned; a few neighbors also dropped in as they often did, for Aun' Sheba was better in their
estimation than any newspaper in town. Since the necessity for much baking had been removed,
she had hired out her stove in order to make more room and to enjoy the genial fire of the
hearth. So far from being embarrassed because her head was tied up in red flannel, she had
the complacent consciousness that she was the social centre of the group, an object of sympathy
and the respected patron of all present.

The Reverend Mr. Birdsall, the minister, treated Aun' Sheba with much consideration; he justly
regarded her as one of the "pillars of the church," knowing well from long experience that
she abounded in liberality if not in long prayers and contentions. He was a plain, sincere,
positive man who preached what he believed to be the truth. If he was sometimes beyond it,
beneath it or away from it altogether, he was as serenely unconscious of the fact as were his
hearers. There was no agnosticism in his congregation, for he laid down the law and the gospel
in a way that discouraged theological speculation. Nevertheless, among his followers there
were controversial spirits who never doubted that they were right, however much they might
question his ecclesiastical methods and views. To many, freedom meant the right to have their
say, and, as is often true, those having the least weighty matter on their minds were the most
ready to volunteer opinions and advice. Aun' Sheba was a doer, not a talker, in her church
relations. If she occasionally dozed a little in her pew during the sermon, she was always
wide awake when the plate was passed around; and if a "brother" or a "sister" were sick she
found time for a visit, nor did she go empty-handed. If it were a case of back-sliding she
had a homely way of talking sense to the delinquent that savored a little of worldly wisdom.
There were not a few who shared in her doubt whether she was "'ligious" or not, but the Reverend
Mr. Birdsall was not of these. He would only have been too glad to have discovered more religion
like hers.

"Mis' Buggone," he said, sympathetically, after Aun' Sheba had given her symptoms with much
detail, "in you is a case whar de spirit is willin' but de flesh is weak. You'se been a-goin'
beyon' you strengt."

"Yes, Elder, dat is de gist ob de whole business," affirmed Kern Watson. "Moder's tromped de
streets wid her big basket till she is dun beat out. She's undertook mo'n her share an' is
s'portin' too many people."

"Kern, you means well," said Aun' Sheba with dignity, "but you mus' not 'fleet on young Missy.
She am de las' one in de worl' to let a body s'port her while she fol' her han's. She's po'ly
too, jes' kase she's a workin' harde'n me."

Uncle Sheba hitched uneasily in his chair, feeling that the conversation rather reflected on
him, and he was conscious that old Tobe, keeper of the "rasteran," was glaring at him. "I reckin,"
he said, "dat de min'ster might offer a word ob prar an' comfort fore he go."

"What pressin' business," asked his wife, severely, "hab you got, Unc., dat you in sech a hurry
fer de min'ster ter go? We ain't into de shank ob de ebenin' yet, an' dar's no 'casion to talk
'bout folks goin'."

"I dun said nothin' 'bout folks goin'," complained Uncle Sheba in an aggrieved tone, "I was
ony a suggestin' wot 'ud be 'propriate ter de 'casion fore dey go."

"Mr. Buggone is right, and prar is always 'propriate," said Mr. Birdsall in order to preserve
the serenity of the occasion. "Before this little company breaks up we will sing a hymn and
hab a word ob prar. But we mus' use de right means in dis worl' an' conform ter de inexorable
law ob de universe. Here's de law and dar's de gospel, and dey both have dar place. If a brick
blow off a chimley it alus falls ter de groun'. Dat's one kin' ob law. Water runs down hill,
dat's much de same kin' ob law. If a man hangs roun' a saloon an' wastes his time an' money,
he's boun' to git seedy an' ragged an' a bad name, an' his fam'ly gets po' an' mis'ble; dat's
another kin' ob law--no 'scapin' it. He's jest as sure ter run down hill as de water. Den if
we git a cut or a burn or a bruise we hab pain; dat's anuder kin' ob law, an' we all know it's
true. But dar's a heap ob good people, Mis' Buggone, who think dey can run dis po' machine
ob a body in a way dat would wear out wrought-iron, and den pray de good Lawd ter keep it strong
and iled and right up to the top-notch ob po'r. Now dat's against both law and gospel, for
eben He who took de big contrac' ter save the worl' said ter his disciples, 'come ye yourselves
apart and rest a while.' I reckon dat's de law and de gospel for you, Mis' Buggone, about dis
time." Nods of approval were general, and Kern Watson gave the sense of the meeting in his
hearty way.

"'Deed it am, Elder," he said. 'You'se hit de nail squar on de head. Own up, now, moder, dat
you'se neber been preached at mo' convincin'. Hi! wot a book dat Bible am! It's got a word
in season fer ebry 'casion."

"Well," said Aun' Sheba, meditatively, "I wants ter be open ter de truf, an' I does own up,
Kern, dat de Elder puts it monstis peart an' bery conwincin'. But," she continued argumentatively,
laying the forefinger of her left hand on the broad palm of her right, "dars gen'ly two sides
to a question. Dat's whar folks git trip up so of'n--dey sees ony one side. I've 'served dat
it's po'ful easy fer folks ter tell oder folks wat ter do and wat not ter do. No 'fence, Elder.
You been doin' you duty, but you'se been layin' down rudder 'stended princ'ples. I know you'se
got ter preach broad an' ter lay down de truf fer de hull winyard, but I wants ter know wat
ter do wid my own little patch ob ground. Now here's me and dar's my young Missy 'pendin' on me."

"Dat's whar I jes' doesn't 'gree wid Aun' Sheba," put in her husband as she paused a moment
for breath. He felt that public opinion was veering over to his side and might be employed
to enforce his views. "It is all bery well fer one ter do all dey can 'sistently fer oders, but--"

"Mr. Buggone," remarked Aun' Sheba sternly.

Uncle Sheba subsided, and she went on, "Dere's my young Missy dat's pendin' on me, but she
ain't pendin' in de sense ob hangin' on me," and she paused and looked impressively at Unc.
"She's usin' her two little han's jest as hard as she know how, an' a heap too hard. Wat's
mo' she's usin' dem to good puppus. I jes' declar' to you, Elder an' frens, dat since she took
hole, de business am rollm' up an' it gettin' too big fer both ob us. Dat's whar de shoe pinches.
I ain't loss notin'. I'se made a heap mo' by doin' fer young Missy. In dis 'fabulation, I doesn't
want no 'flections on her, kase dey wouldn't be fair. Now, Kern, you'se right smart. You'se
had my 'proval eber sence you took a shine ter Sissy. Ud you belebe it, Elder and frens, dat
son-in-law ob mine offered ter s'port me an' me do nuffin but jes' help Sissy and look arter
de chil'n. But dat ain't my way. I likes ter put my own money in my own pocket an' I likes
ter take it out agin, an' it jes' warm my heart like a hick'y fiah ter help dat honey lam'
ob mine dat I nussed. So you see, Elder, dat gen'l preachin' am like meal. Folks has got ter
take it an' make out ob it a little hoe-cake fer dere selves. It's de same ole meal, but we's
got ter hab it in a shape dat 'plies ter our own inards, sperital and bodily."

Again there were nods of assent and sounds of approval which old Tobe put into words. "Aun'
Sheba," he said, "you puts you'se 'pinions monst'us peart, too. I'se an ole man an' has had
my shar ob 'sperence, an' I'se alus 'served dat de hitch come in at de 'plyin' part. Dere's
a sight ob preachin' dat soun' as true an' straight as dat de sun an' rain make de cotton grow,
but when you git down to de berry indewidooel cotton plant dere's ofen de debil to pay in one
shape or oder. Dere's a wum at de root or a wum in de leaves, or dey's too much rain or too
much sun, or de sile's like a beef bone dat's been biled fer soup mo' dan's reasonable. Now
Aun' Sheba's de indewidooel cotton-plant we's a-'siderin', an' I doan see how she's gwine to
res' a while any mo'n I kin. Ef I shet up my rasteran de business gwine ter drap off ter some
oder rasteran."

"But, bruder Tobe, isn't it better, even as you put it," protested the minister, "dat Mis Buggone's
business should drop off an' yours too, dan dat you should drop off youselves? Howsumever,
I see de force ob what you both say, and we mus' try ter hit upon a golden mean. I reckon dar's
a way by which you can both keep your business and yet keep youselves from goin' beyon' your
'bility. You are both useful citizens and supporters ob de gospel, and I'm concerned fer your
welfare, bodily as well as sperital."

"Aun' Sheba," said her daughter, "you'se my moder an' I ought ter be de fust one ter help ease
you up. I just dun declar dat you'se got ter take Vilet ter help you up. I kin spar her, an'
I will spar her. She's strong an' gwine on twelve, an' de babies is gitten so dat dey ain't
aroun' under my feet all de time. Vilet's spry an' kin run here an' dar an' fill de orders.
She'd ease you up right smart."

"Now, Sissy," said her husband, who always called her by the old household name, "dat's bery
sens'ble and childlike in you to put yousef out fer you'se muder. I'd been tinkin' 'bout Vilet,
but I didn't like de suggestin ob her leabin' you to do so much, ob de work. But go ahead,
Sissy; go ahead, Vilet, an' you'll fin' me easy goin' at meal times."

"Come here, Vilet," said the minister.

The girl had been sitting on the floor at Aun' Sheba's feet, listening quietly and intelligently
to all that had been said. She was tall for her age, and had the quiet steadfastness of gaze
that was characteristic of her father. He was exceedingly fond and proud of her, for, with
very little schooling, she had learned to read and write. Even as a child she had much of his
patience and unselfishness, thus making herself very useful at home. She looked unshrinkingly
at the minister, but trembled slightly, for she felt all eyes were upon her.

"Vilet," began Mr. Birdsall, "you are said to be a good chile, an' I like the sens'ble, quiet
way in which you stan' up an' look me in de face. I reckon dar ain't much foolishness in you.
Your fader and moder hab shown de right spirit, de self-denying spirit dat de Lawd will bless.
Can you say the fifth commandment, chile?" Vilet repeated it promptly.

"Dat's right. Now your fader an' moder are honahing dar moder, an' you are goin' to hab a chance
ter honah dem an' your granma, too. You will hab temptations in de streets ter be pert an'
idle, ter stop an' talk to dis one and ter answer back to dat one in a way you shouldn't. But
if you go along quiet an' steady, an' do what you're tole, an' be car'ful 'bout de money an'
de messages an' de orders an' so forth, you will reflect honah on us all an' 'specially on
all your folks. You understan', Vilet?"

"Yes, sir."

The minister put his hand on her head, and said solemnly, "You have my blessin', Vilet."

She ducked a little courtesy, and again squatted at the feet of Aun' Sheba, who, much affected,
was wiping her eyes with her apron, while Sissy's emotion was audible.

"Now, frens," resumed Mr. Birdsall, "this 'mergency of Mis Buggone's health has been met in
de right human and Scriptural spirit. Frens and fam'ly hab gathered 'roun' de 'flicted one,
an' hab paid dar respect ter her usefulness an' value, an' hab shown her becomin' sympathy.
Her own fam'ly, as is also becomin', hab been first ter ease her up accordin', first, to the
law of primigeneshureship. I know dat dis is a long word, but long words of'en mean a heap,
an' dat's why dey are so long. Dat good little girl, Vilet, is de oldes' granchile, an' she
fulfils a great law in helpin' her granma. Den it's accordin' to the gospel, for a loving an'
self-denyin' spirit has been shown. Mr. Watson has obeyed de great law of matrimony. He has
married into dis fam'ly, an' he pulls with it an' for it instead ob against it as we see too
of'en. De Lawd's blessin' will rest on dis fam'ly."

"I feels greatly comforted," said Aun' Sheba. "Dis has been a bressed season an' a out-pourin'.
I mos' feels 'ligious dis ebenin'. De chilen an' dis deah chile" (patting Vi'let's head) "warm
me up betteh'n flannel an' de fiah. Elder, you'se a good shep'd ob de flock. You'se a lookin'
arter body an' soul. You'se got de eddication to talk big words to us, an', now we'se free,
we hab a right to big words, no mattah how much dey mean. It's po'ful comfortin' ter know we'se
doin' 'cordin' to de law an' de gospel."

"'Pears ter me," said old Tobe, "dat Uncle Sheba might hab a little law an' gospel 'plied ter
him. He am one ob de fam'ly. I'se a heap ol'er dan he be, an' I'se up wid de sun an' I ony
wish I could set when de sun sets. 'Pears like he orter tote some ob de tings ez well ez his
slip ob a grandaughter," and old Tobe's wool seemed fairly to bristle with indignation and
antipathy.

"I've no doubt," began Mr. Birdsall, "but Mr. Buggone'll emulate--"

"Elder," interrupted Aunt Sheba, with portentous solemnity, "dere's bobscure 'flictions in
dis worl' dat can't be 'splained, an' de 'flictions ofen begin wen we say 'for bettah or wusser.'
You'se say youself in de pulpit dat de gret an' bressed sinner, Paul, had a thorn in de flesh
an' he couldn't git rid ob it nohow, dat he jes' bar wid it an' go 'bout his business. Ole
Tobe am old, but he wasn't bawn tired. Dere's men dat's po'ful weak in de jints ob de body,
yit dat doesn't hender dem from gittin' 'round, but wen de weak feelin' gits inter de jints
ob de min' den dey's shuah to be kinder limpsy-slimpsy an' dey ain't no help fer it. Ez I sez
afore, de 'fliction am bobscure. You see de feet an' you see de han's, an' you tink dat dey
kin go an' do like oder han's an' feet, but dey doesn't an' dey can't. Dere ain't no backbone
runnin' up troo de min' an' wen dere ain't no backbone in de min' de pusson jest flop down
yere an' flop down dar whareber dere's a com'fo'ble place to flop. Dere's 'flictions dat we
kin pray agin an' pray out'n ob, an' dere's oders we jes got ter bar, an' we gits so kinder
used to'm at las dat we'd be mo' mis'ble ef dey wuz tooken away. We'se got to take de bittah
wid de sweet, but, tank de Lawd! de sweet 'domernate in dis yere fam'ly. Now let's hab some
praise an' prar. Vilet, honey, sing de hymn you'se moder lern you."

And in a somewhat shrill, yet penetrating, musical voice, the girl sang:

  "I'se a-journeyin', I'se a-journeyin',
     An' de way am bery long;
   De road ain't known, de way ain't shown,
     Yit I journeys wid a song.

CHORUS

  "De journey, de journey, howeber rough de road,
   It's a-leadin', it's a-leadin', to a hebinly abode.

  "I'se a-travelin', I'se a-travelin',
     From de cradle to de grave,
   De road am rough and sho' anuff,
     De heart, hit mus' be brave.

  "I'se a-wondrin', I'se a-wondrin',
     Wen de journey will be true;
   But I goes along wid sigh an' song
     An' a cheery word fer you."

Kern Watson and his wife were gifted with those rich, mellow, African voices made so familiar
in plantation songs and hymns. In the case of "Sissy" there was a pathetic, contralto, minor
quality in her tones, and the first time young Watson heard her sing a spell was thrown round
his fancy which led to all the rest. The same might be said of her, for when her husband, then
a stranger, poured forth, in one of their evening meetings, the great rich volume of his voice,
she ceased to sing that she might listen with avidity. It was not long after that before Kern
mustered courage to ask "Miss Buggone, mout I hab de pleasure ob 'companyin' you home?" Not
many months elapsed before he accompanied her home to stay, with Aun' Sheba's full consent.

Other hymns followed in which Uncle Sheba took part with much unction, for he wished to impress
all present that in spite of the "bobscure affliction" he "injied 'ligion" as much as any of
them. Mr. Birdsall offered a characteristic prayer, and then Aun' Sheba nodded to Sissy, who
brought out a large supply of cakes and apples. Some gossip among the women and political discussion
among the men occurred while these were being disposed of, and then the little company broke
up, leaving Aun' Sheba much improved in health and spirits.

CHAPTER XIII

CAPTAIN BODINE

The next day was warm and sunny, and Aun' Sheba, rising much refreshed, felt herself equal
to her duties in spite of her fears to the contrary. She took Vilet with her to a shop, and
there purchased a much smaller basket, the weight of which when filled would not be burdensome
to the girl. Thus equipped she appeared before Mara at the usual hour with her grandchild,
and began complacently: "Now, honey lam', you'se gwine to hab two strings to you'se bow. I
sometimes feel ole an' stiff in my jints an' my heft is kinder agin me in trompin'. Here's
my granddaughter, an' she's spry as a cricket. She kin run yere an' dar wid de orders'n less
dan no time, so you won't be kept kin' ob scruged back an' down kase I'se slow an' hebby. You see?"

"Yes, Aun' Sheba, and I am very glad to see. I have been worrying about you, for it has seemed
to me that you were going beyond your strength, and yet I did not know of any one to help you
or whether you wanted any one."

"Now, honey, you jes' took de words out'n my mouth 'bout you. You'se lookin' po'ly, an' I'se
dreffle 'feared you'se gwine ter get beat ont. You want help mo'n me, an' I'se had it on my
min' ter talk wid you."

"Oh, Aun' Sheba, I'm very well," protested Mara, yet glad to think that her paleness and languor
were ascribed to fatigue.

"Now see yere, honey, I'se got my blin' side, I know, but it ain't toward you. I watch ober
you too many yeahs not to know wen you po'ly. You'se gwine beyon' you strengt, too. Why can't
you get some one ter he'p you an' den we go along swimmin'?"

"Well, I'll see. I reckon I'll be better soon, and I don't care to do more than can be done
in a quiet way."

The new arrangement on Aun' Sheba's side of the "pana'ship" soon began to work well. Vilet
proved quick and trustworthy, saving her grandmother many a weary step, and Mara was compelled
to see that the mutual income might be greatly increased if she also had efficient help. She
recognized the truth that she was becoming worn, and she also knew the cause to be that she
worked without the spring of hopefulness or even the quietness of a heart at rest. She had
almost decided to intrust Aun' Sheba with the task of finding a suitable helper, when she made
two acquaintances who were destined to become intimately associated with her experiences.

One afternoon she felt so lonely, desolate and hopeless that she felt she must go out of herself.
The future was taking on an aspect hard to face. Disposed to self-sacrifice, she was wretchedly
conscious that there was nothing on which she could bestow a devotion which could sustain or
inspire. There was no future to look forward to, no cause to be furthered, no goal to be reached
by brave, patient effort. If she had lived at the time of the war she would have loved scarcely
less than her mother, but her heart would have been almost equally divided between the cause
and those who fought and suffered for it. If her lot had been cast in the North it would have
been much the same. The same patriotic motives would have kindled her imagination and produced
the most intense loyalty in thought and action. She was endowed with a spirit which, had she
lived in the past, might easily have led her into an effort to restore some overthrown dynasty,
and she would have so idealized even a very questionable conspiracy as to render it worthy,
in her belief, of unstinted self-sacrifice. A girl of her character would have faced the wild
beasts of the Roman amphitheatre for the sake of her faith, or she would have intrigued against
the Spanish Inquisition although hourly conscious that she was exposing herself to its horrors.
It was this very tendency to give herself up wholly to some object which she felt had a supreme
claim upon her, that had enabled her to live so long upon the memories of the past. The lost
cause, for which her father had died, had been as sacred to her as the old dream of freedom
to a Pole, but Clancy's question in regard to the old phase of her life, "What good will it
do?" combining with other circumstances, had awakened her to the futility of her course. Denied
the hope of any future achievement, lacking a powerful motive to sacrifice herself and her
love, her strong nature chafed and tended to despondency at the thought of a simple existence.
It was not enough merely to earn a living and live. She craved an inspiring object, an antidote
for her heartache, a consciousness that in giving up much she also accomplished much. Yet the
future stretched away like an arid plain and she was depressed by the foreboding that every
step carried her further from all that could give zest to life. She was, therefore, in a mood
to accept anything which would relieve the dreary monotony.

On the afternoon in question she decided to call upon an old lady who had lost nearly all her
kindred and property. "Surely," thought the girl, "she has nothing to look forward to in this
world but a few more straitened years, then death. I wish I were as old as she."

Taking a little delicacy she started out to pay the visit, hoping to gain an insight into the
philosophy of patient endurance. She veiled herself heavily, for she was ever haunted by the
fear of meeting Clancy on the street, and that her tell-tale face might lead him to guess the
cost of her effort to avoid him.

An old colored woman showed the way into the parlor while she went up to prepare her mistress
for the call. Reading by the window was a middle-aged gentleman who bowed gravely and resumed
his book.

He riveted Mara's attention instantly, for her first glance revealed that he had lost his right
leg and that crutches leaned against the arm of his chair. He could not be other than a veteran
of the Confederate army, as it would be strange indeed to find an ex-soldier of the North in
that abode. His strong, finely-cut side face, distinctly outlined against the light, was toward
her. It was marked by deep lines as if the man had suffered and had passed through memorable
experiences. He wore no beard or whiskers, but an iron-gray mustache gave a distinguished cast
to a visage whose habitual expression was rather cold and haughty.

Mara had time to note these characteristics before she was summoned to Mrs. Bodine's apartment.
Although the day was mild, the old lady, wrapped in shawls, sat by an open fire, and her wrinkled
face lighted up with pleasure as the girl came toward her. Indeed, there was something like
excitement in her manner as she kissed her guest and said: "Bring your chair close, my dear,
so I can see you and hold your hand. I've something to tell you which I reckon will interest
you almost as much as it does me."

When Mara was seated in a low chair she resumed: "How much you would look like your father,
child, if your eyes were bright and laughing instead of being so large and sad! Well, well,
there has been enough to make all our eyes sad, and you, poor child, have had more than enough.
Yet you are good and brave, my dear. So far from sitting down in helpless grieving, you are
taking care of yourself and have time to think of an old woman like me. Poor Mrs. Hunter! what
would she do without you? She, like so many of us, has been blighted and stranded, and she
would have been worse off than I if it had not been for you, for I have a little left, but
oh, it is so little. Never did I wish it were more so much as I do now. You must be patient
with me, child. I sit here so much alone that it is a godsend to have some one to talk to,
and you are the very one I wanted to see. I was going to send for you, for I knew you would
like to see my guests. My cousin and his daughter are visiting me, and I wish they could stay
with me always. I knew you would like to meet Captain Bodine--"

"Captain Bodine!" exclaimed Mara, "why, that is the name of an officer who used to be in my
father's regiment."

"He is the very same, my dear."

"Was that he in the parlor?" Mara asked, trembling with excitement.

"Yes, he and his daughter arrived only yesterday."

"Oh!" said Mara, "I've received letters from him, and I've longed to see him for years. Can
I not go down and speak to him at once? I surely do not need any introduction to the old friend
of my father."

"No, my dear, no indeed. You need no formal introduction to any guest or relative of mine.
Besides, he knows you well and all about you, although he has never seen you since you were
a child. It would please him greatly to have you go down and speak to him at once, for he would
know that I would tell you about his being here, and he might think you cold or formal if you
delayed seeing him. I'm glad you feel so, my dear, but you must come back and sit with me awhile
before you go home. I'll ring for Hannah and have a nice little feast while you are downstairs."

Mara scrupulously veiled her impatience until her kind, garrulous friend was through, and then
stole with swift, noiseless tread to the parlor below. Standing in the doorway, she saw that
the object of her quest was absorbed in his book. "He is my ideal of the soldier of that day,"
she thought. "How truly he represents us, with his sad, proud face and mutilated body!" In
a sort of awe she hesitated a moment and then said timidly, "Captain Bodine."

He looked up quickly, and seeing Mara's lustrous eyes and flushed face, divined instantly who
she was.

"Is not this Miss Wallingford?" he asked, his face expressing glad anticipation as he began
to gather up his crutches.

"Do not rise," cried Mara, coming forward instantly with outstretched hands.

But he was on his crutches, and said feelingly, "Heaven forbid that I should receive the daughter
of my old friend with so little respect." He took the girl's face into his hands, and looked
earnestly into her eyes. "Yes," he resumed gently, "you are Sidney Wallingford's child. God
bless you, my dear," and he kissed her lightly on the forehead. "You won't mind this from an
old comrade of your father," he said as he made her take his chair and sat down near her. "We
have been bereft of so much that what remains has become very precious. I know all about you,
Mara."

Tears were in the girl's eyes as she replied falteringly, "And I know of you, sir, and have
longed to meet you. You can scarcely know how much your words mean to me when you say you were
my father's comrade and friend. I knew this, but it seems more real to me now, and I feel that
seeing you is coming as near as I can to seeing him."

"My poor child! Would to God that he had lived, for you would have been his pride and solace,
as my daughter is to me. When I saw you last you were a little black-eyed girl and happily
did not understand your loss, although you looked as if you did. I never thought so many years
would pass before I saw you again, but we have had to fight some of our hardest battles since
the war," and he sighed deeply.

"How soon can I meet your daughter?" Mara asked, her eyes full of sympathy.

"Very soon. I urged her to take a walk on the Battery, for she has not been very well of late.
I said I knew all about you, as I have been told of your loyalty and brave efforts and your
kindness to my aged cousin, but now that I see you, I feel that I know very little. Your face
is full of stories, my dear child. You are young, and yet you look as if the memories of the
past had made you far older than your years warrant That is the trouble with us. We have much
more to look back upon than to look forward to. Yet it should not be so with you."

"It can scarcely be otherwise," Mara answered sadly; "you have touched the very core of our
trouble, and I suppose it is the trouble with us all who are so closely linked with the past--we
have so little to look forward to. But now that you can tell me about my father the past seems
so near and real that I do not wish to think about anything else."

Time sped rapidly as Captain Bodine recalled the scenes and incidents of his life which were
associated with his old commander, and Mara listened with an absorbed, tearful interest which
touched him deeply. The proud, reserved expression of his face had passed away utterly, and
the girl appreciated the change. His sympathy, the gentleness of his tones and the profound
respect which was blended with his paternal manner made her feel that her father's friend was
already her friend in a very near and sacred sense. While he was reserved about his own affairs,
and she also was conscious of a secret of which she could never speak, they had so much in
common that she felt that they could talk for hours. But the old lady in the apartment above
grew impatient, and at last Hannah stood courtesying in the door as she said, "Missus p'sent
her compl'ments an' say would be glad to see you."

"There, I've been selfish and thoughtless," said Captain Bodine, "but I shall see you again,
for it will give Ella and me great pleasure to call upon you."

"Yes, indeed, we must meet often," Mara added earnestly. "I hope you are going to make a long
stay in Charleston."

"I scarcely know," he replied, and again there was an involuntary sigh; "but I must keep you
no longer."

CHAPTER XIV

"ALL GIRLS TOGETHER"

"I'm not going to lose my visit altogether," said Mrs. Bodine, when Mara returned with an apology.
"If the captain has only one leg, he can get out and around better than I can. Indeed it is
wonderful how he does get around. He is the spryest man on crutches I ever saw, and you know,
my dear, I've seen a good many. In that dreadful war we were only too glad to get our men back,
what was left of them, and if an arm or a leg were missing we welcomed them all the more, but
we couldn't give much more than a welcome. It was wreck and ruin on every side. If we had our
own the captain would be well off, as you and I would be, but he is poor; poorer than most
of us. In fact, he hasn't anything. He wasn't one of those supple jointed men who could conform
to the times, and he wasn't brought up to make his living by thrifty ways. But he did his best,
poor boy, he did his best. Would you like to hear more about him?"

"Yes, indeed," Mara replied, "you can't know how deeply I am interested in him and his daughter.
He was my father's comrade in arms, his friend and follower. You must pardon me for staying
away so long, but when he began talking of my father I felt as if I could listen forever, you
know. I honor him all the more because he is poor."

"Yes, my dear, I know. Most of us are learning the hard lessons of poverty. I call him a boy
because it seems only the other day he was a boy and a handsome one, too. He used to visit
us here, and was so full of fun and frolic! But he has had enough to sober him, poor fellow.
He was scarcely more than a boy when the war began, but he was among the first to enlist, and,
like your father, he was a private soldier at first. He soon received a commission in the same
regiment of which your father became colonel, and no doubt would have reached a much higher
rank if he had not lost his leg. He met with this loss before your brave father was killed,
but I suppose he told you."

"Yes," faltered Mara, "he told me why he was not with my father at the last."

"Yes, if he could he would have been with him and died with him, and sometimes I almost think
he wishes that such had been his fate, he has suffered so much. During the remainder of the
war he had command of inland positions which did not require marching, and he always made the
record of a brave, high-minded officer. After the war he married a lovely girl, and tried to
keep the old plantation: but his capital was gone, taxes were high, the negroes wouldn't work,
and I suppose he and his wife didn't know how to practice close economy, and so the place had
to be sold. It didn't bring enough to pay the mortgages. It cut him to the quick to part with
the old plantation on which the family had lived for generations, but far worse was soon to
follow, for his wife died, and that nearly broke his heart. Since that time he has lived in
Georgia with his only child, Ella, getting such occupation as he could--office work of various
kinds, but I suppose his reserved, gloomy ways rendered him unpopular; and even our own people,
when it comes to business, prefer an active man who has a ready word for every one. I conjecture
much of this, for he is not inclined to talk about himself. Poor as I am, I'm glad they accepted
my invitation, and I mean to do all in my power to get him employment here. I have a little
influence yet with some people, and perhaps a place can be found or made for him. He and his
daughter don't require very much, and God knows I'd share my last crust with them, and," she
concluded with a little apologetic laugh, "it is almost like sharing a crust."

"Oh, he will get employment," cried Mara, enthusiastically; "his disabled condition in itself
will plead eloquently for him. How old is Ella?"

"She must be eighteen or thereabout."

"I wonder if she wouldn't like to help me?"

"Help you? She'd be delighted. But then, my dear, you must not be carried away by your generous
feeling. We're all proud of you because you have struck out so bravely for yourself; but surely
you have burdens enough already."

"Perhaps Ella can lighten my burden, and I hers; but it is very homely, humble work."

"You dear child!" exclaimed Mrs. Bodine, with her little chirruping laugh, "you are not a very
homely, humble doer of the work. I reckon there's no prouder girl in town. But that's the way
it is with the captain and all of us, in fact. The poorer we are, the prouder we are. Well,
well, our pride is about all we can keep in these times. You need have no fear, however, that
Ella will hesitate in helping you, except as she may very naturally think herself incompetent,
or that you are wronging yourself in trying to help her."

"We'll see about it," Mara remarked thoughtfully; "I will invite her to spend a morning with
me, and then she can obtain a practical idea of my work. She might not like it at all, or she
might like to do something else much better, and so would be embarrassed if I asked her to
help me, disliking to refuse, and yet wishing to do so."

"Ah, well," said Mrs. Bodine, smiling; "we have some right to think ourselves 'quality' still,
as old Hannah calls us. We are just as considerate of one another's feelings as if we were
all Royal Highnesses. Have it your own way, my dear, if you truly think Ella can be of service
to you. I reckon you need help, for you don't look as well as when I saw you last."

"Yes," acquiesced Mara, "I think I do need help. Aun' Sheba's granddaughter is assisting her,
and a good deal more could be sold if it were properly prepared. It would be a great happiness
if my need opened the way for Ella, for I feel it would please my father as much as it would
please me if I could be of service to his old friend and his daughter."

"I have heard, dear, that you are always trying to do what you thought your father and mother
would like."

"God forbid I should do otherwise," said the girl solemnly.

"Well, perhaps they know all about it," said the old lady, wiping a tear from her eye. "How
close our troubles bring us together. You are lonely for your parents, and I am lonely for
my husband and children."

"And yet you are braver and more cheerful than I," responded Mara; "I was so sad and discouraged
over the future this afternoon, that I came to you, thinking that you might unconsciously teach
me patience and courage. Truly I was guided, for you face everything like a soldier. Then in
meeting Captain Bodine, I seem to have been brought nearer my father than ever before. I can't
hear about him without tears, yet I would turn from any pleasure in the world to hear about
him. What happiness if he had lived and I could help him in some way!"

"Well, my dear, we all have our own way of bearing our burdens, and I often wonder whether
I have done more laughing or crying in my life. It has been one or the other most of the time.
I have always thanked the Lord that when the pain or the trouble was not too severe, I could
laugh, and soon I know all tears will be wiped away. It's harder for you, my dear; it is harder
for you than me. My voyage has been long and stormy; husband, sons, and the cause for which
they died all lost; but I'm coming into the harbor. You've got your voyage before you. But
take courage. Who knows but that your early days may be your darkest days? They can't always
be dark when you are so ready to brighten the lives of others. There, I hear Ella's voice."

A moment later there was a knock at the door, and Ella Bodine entered. We have all seen bright-hued
flowers growing in shaded places, and among cold, grim rocks. Such brightness had the young
girl who now appears upon the scene of our story. One speedily felt that its cause was not
in externals, but that it resulted from inherent qualities. As with Mara, there had been much
in her young life sad and hard to endure. She had not surmounted her trouble by shallowness
of soul or callousness, but rather by a spiritual buoyancy which kept her above the dark waves,
and enabled her to enjoy all the sunshine vouchsafed. Yet, unlike her father and Mara, she
lived keenly in the present. She sympathized truly and honestly with her father, and in a large
measure intelligently recognized the nature of the deep shadows projected across his life from
the past, but it was her disposition to keep as near to him as possible and yet remain just
beyond the shadows. She possessed a wholesome common-sense which taught her that the shadows
were not hers and that they were not good for her father; so she was ever making inroads upon
them, beguiling him into a smile, surprising him into a laugh--in brief, preventing the shadows
from deepening into that gloom which is dangerous to bodily and spiritual health. She made
his small earnings go a great way, and banished from his life the sordidness of poverty. God
outlines an angel in many a woman's heart, and often privations and sorrow, more surely than
luxury, fill out the divine sketch. In the instance of Ella Bodine the angelic was so sweetly
and inextricably interwoven with all that was human that to mortal comprehension she was better
than a wilderness of conventional angels. She was depressed now under one of the few forms
of adversity that could cast her down. Her father was out of employment, their slender income
had ceased, and they were dependent. She felt this cruel position all the more because Mrs.
Bodine out of her poverty gave her hospitality so unstintedly and ungrudgingly.

To the sensitive, fine-natured girl it was like feeding upon the life of another, and that
other a generous friend.

During her walk a score of schemes to earn money had presented themselves to her inexperienced
mind, but her hands had learned only how to eke out a small salary and to minister to her father.
She had come home resolute to do something, but troubled because she knew not what to do.

She paused a moment on the threshold of Mrs. Bodine's apartment, and looked questioningly at
Mara, at the same time half divining who she was.

"Come along, Ella," cried Mrs. Bodine, with a little joyous laugh of anticipation, "and kiss
one of your best friends, although you never saw her before."

"Is it Mara?"

Mara's smile and swift approach answered her question. In an instant the two girls were in
each other's arms, their warm Southern hearts touched by the electric fire of sympathy and
mutual understanding. Mrs. Bodine clapped her little, thin hands and cried, "Oh, that's fine.
Southern girls have not died out yet. Why, even my old withered heart had one of the most delicious
thrills it ever experienced. Now, my dears, come and sit beside me and get acquainted."

"Oh, I know you already, Mara Wallingford," said Ella with sparkling eyes.

"And I am learning to know you, Ella. I know you already well enough to love you."

"Well," exclaimed Mrs. Bodine, raising her hands in a comic gesture, "I reckon the ice is broken
between you."

They all laughed at this sally, and Mara was so cheered, her nerves all tingling with excitement,
that she could scarcely believe herself to be the half-despairing girl of a few hours before.
"Now come," resumed Mrs. Bodine, "let us all be girls together and have a good talk. At this
rate I'll soon be younger than either of you. I haven't had my share yet. Do you believe it,
Ella? Mara has been downstairs petting your father for an hour."

"I wonder where he is. He wasn't in the parlor when I came in."

"I reckon he followed your good example and went out for a walk. I heard the door shut. Well,
you girls make a picture that it does my old eyes good to look at. Here's Mara with her creamy
white skin and eyes as lustrous now as our Southern skies when full of stars, but sometimes,
oh so sad and dark. Dear child, I wish I could take the gloom all out of them, for then I could
think your heart was light. But I know how it is; I know. Your mother gave you her sad heart
when she gave you life, but you have your father's strength and courage, my dear, and you will
never give up. And here is Ella with complexion of roses and snow and eyes like violets with
the morning dew still on them--forgive an old woman's flowery speech, for that's the way we
used to talk when I was young--yes, here is Ella, a little peach blossom, yet brimming over
with the wish to become a big, luscious peach. Lor, Lor--oh, fie! Am I saying naughty words?
But then, my dears, you know my husband was a naval officer, and no man ever swore more piously
than he. Bad words never sounded bad to me when he spoke them--he was such a good Christian!
and he always treated me as he expected to be treated when he was on deck. I reckon that I
and the Commodore are the only ones that ever ordered him around," and the old lady cried and
laughed at the same time, while the faces of her young companions were like flowers brightened
by the sun while still wet with dew.

"Let me see," continued the old lady, "where was I when I began to swear a little; just a little,
you know. It is a sort of tribute to my husband, and so can't be very wicked. Oh, I remember,
I was thinking what fun it would have been to chaperon you two girls at one of our grand balls
in the good old times. I would sail around like a great ship of the line, convoying two of
the trimmest little crafts that ever floated, and all the pirates, I mean gallant young men,
my dears, would hover near, dying to cut you out right under my guns, or nose, as land-lubbers
would say. Well, well, either of you could lead a score of them a chase before you signed articles
of unconditional surrender," and Mrs. Bodine leaned back in her chair and laughed in her silvery
little birdlike twitter. The girls laughed with her, pleased in spite of themselves with visions
that, both in their nature and by tradition, accorded with the young romantic period of life.
But memory speedily began to restore gravity to Mara's face. Mrs. Bodine recognized this, and
her own face grew gentle and sorrowful. Laying a hand on each of the girls heads she resumed,
"Do not think I am a frivolous old woman because I run on so. I do not forget the present any
more than Mara, I see, cannot. Dear children, the circumstances of your lot render you as burdened
and, in some ways, almost as old as I am. Ella can forget easier than you, Mara, but that is
because God has put brightness into her heart. Let us all face the truth together. I am long
past being an elegant matron. I am only a poor old childless widow with but a few more days
of feebleness and suffering before me, yet I do not sigh in a bitter, murmuring spirit. Old
as I am, I am still God's little child, and sometimes I think this truth makes me as mirthful
as a child. When the pain is hardest to bear, when the past, oh, the past--with all its immeasurable
losses, begins to crush my very soul, I turn my dim eyes upward and repeat to myself, 'There
is a Heaven of eternal rest and joy,' and so I grow serene in my waiting. I have always loved
the bright, pleasant things of this world--it was my nature to do so--but He who bears the
burdens and heartbreak of the whole world has gently lifted my love up to Him. Didn't He have
compassion on the widow of Nain, and say to her, 'Weep not'? My gallant husband, my brave boys
and this poor little widow are all in His hands, and I try to obey His gentle command not to
weep except sometimes when I can't help it and He knows I can't."

The two girls with their heads in her lap were crying softly from sympathy. With light, caressing
touches to each the old lady continued, "Ella, my dear, you are like me in some respects. You,
too, love the bright pleasant things of this world, and you are so divinely blessed with a
buoyancy of heart that you will make what is hard and humdrum bright for yourself and others.
You will embroider life with sunshine if there is any sunshine at all. Like myself, you will
be able to smile and laugh whenever the pain is not too severe, yet I fear it will be very
hard sometimes. Bat, as my husband would say, you are taut, trim and well ballasted, and good
for a long, safe voyage. You have obeyed the Fifth Commandment, and its promise is yours.

"Mara, dear child my heart, for some reason, aches for you. I knew and loved your grandfather
and your father and mother. You were born into a heritage of bitterness and sorrow, and I fear
Mrs. Hunter, with all her good qualities, was not so constituted as to be able to counteract
inherited tendencies. I wish I could have brought you up, for then we could have cried or laughed
together over what happened.

"But you have learned to repress and to brood--two dangerous habits. You want to do some great
thing, and alas! there is seldom a great thing which we poor women can do. You are not impelled
by ambition or a desire for notoriety, but by a sort of passion for self-sacrifice.

"If you had lived twenty odd years ago no soldier of the South could have been braver or more
devoted. You are not satisfied with mere living and making the best of life as it is. I don't
know why, but I feel that there are depths in your heart which no one understands. Be careful,
dear child, and be patient. Don't yield to some morbid idea of duty, or be involved in some
chimerical plan of an achievement.

"Learn Ella's philosophy, and be as content with sunshine and daily duty as possible. Ella
will do this unconsciously, my dear; you will have to do it consciously, just as a sick man
seeks health. But you will both have to go forward and meet woman's lot. I was once a young
girl, fancy free, like you. How much has happened since! I now feel like an old hen that would
like to gather you both under her wing in shelter from all trouble," and again her little laugh
chimed out while she wiped away the tears which sprang from her motherly heart.

The thump of Captain Bodine's crutches was heard on the stair. "Bring him in," said Mrs. Bodine,
mopping her eyes vigorously.

Ella ran to the door and admitted him, and then, with a pretty custom she had, took away a
crutch, and substituting one of her own round shoulders supported him to a large armchair.
The low western sun flooded the room with light. He looked questioningly at the dewy eyes of
the two girls and at the evidences of emotion which Mrs. Bodine had not been fully able to remove.

"Well," said he, "what part am I to have in this mournful occasion?"

Ella stood beside him with her arm about his neck, and was about to speak, when Mrs. Bodine
said quickly in her piquant way, "You are to be chief mourner."

"A role for which I am peculiarly fitted," he replied sadly, not catching her humor.

"Oh, papa, you don't understand," cried Ella, "we have been having just a heavenly time."

He looked at Mara as she stood beside the old lady, and his very soul was touched by the sympathy
expressed for him in her beautiful eyes. Standing there, enveloped in sunshine, it seemed to
him that no angel of God could regard him more kindly. It was not pity, but rather honor, affection
and that deep commiseration of which but few women are capable. He felt instinctively that
she knew all and that her woman's heart was suffering vicariously with him and for him. The
very air was electrical with deep human feeling, and he, yielding to a strong impulse scarcely
understood, said earnestly, "God bless you, Mara Wallingford."

Sensible old Mrs. Bodine felt that it was time to come back to every-day life, so she said
promptly, "Yes, and He is going to bless her, and bless us all. If there is any mourning to
be done on this occasion you must do it. We three girls have been having a good talk, and are
the better for it. That's the demmed total--oh, fie! there I am at it again. Well, Cousin Hugh,
to take you into our entire confidence, we have been facing things and have arrived at several
conclusions, one of which is--now, Ella, shut your ears--that you have one of the best daughters
in the world, and that she and Mara have quite broken the ice between them and are going to
be very good friends, and I was saying how I would like to convoy two such girls in one of
our ballrooms in the good old times--oh, well, we have just been having a long lingo as girls
will when they get together."

Captain Bodine was gifted with tact and a quick appreciation. He understood the old lady and
her purpose.

"Cousin Sophy," he said, "you are just the same as when, a boy, I used to visit you--tears
and smiles close together. Well, I believe that Heaven comes down very near when you three
girls get together."

The old lady lay back in her chair and laughed heartily. "Oh, Ella, if you only knew what a
mischievous boy your father was once! But, there, we have had enough of the past and the future
for one day. Mara, my dear, you must stay and banquet with us. No, no, no, I won't hear any
excuse. When I once get on quarter-deck every one must obey orders. Ella, direct Hannah to
spread the festive board. You and Mara can lend a hand, and you can put on all we have in five
minutes. To think that I should have eaten that delicious jelly you brought, greedy old cormorant
that I am!"

A few moments later Mara supported the old lady down to the dining-room, and, though the viands
were few and meagre, the banqueters, to say the least, were not commonplace. Mara said nothing
of her plan, but Ella was invited to spend the following morning with her. In the late lingering
twilight Captain Bodine escorted the young girl home. On the way thither they came plump upon
Owen Clancy. He glanced keenly from one to the other as he lifted his hat. Mara's only response
was a slight bow.

CHAPTER XV

TWO LITTLE BAKERS

Mara led Captain Bodine up to their little parlor and introduced him to Mrs. Hunter, who received
him most cordially, feeling that in him she recognized a congenial spirit. He treated her with
the respect and old-time courtesy which she said was "so truly Southern." Their feelings and
beliefs touched closely at several points, yet they were very different in their essential
characteristics. Poor Mrs. Hunter had been limited by nature and education. She could not help
being narrow in all her views; she was scarcely less able to dismiss her intense, bitter prejudices.
She was quite incapable of reasoning herself into her mental position; it was simply the inevitable
result of her circumstances, her lot and her own temperament. Captain Bodine was a proud man,
as proud toward himself as toward others. The cause for which he and his kindred had suffered
and lost so much had been sacred, and therefore it ever would be sacred. To change his views,
to begin revising his opinions, would be to stultify himself and to reflect dishonor on his
comrades in arms who had perished. In the very depths of his young, ardent spirit he had once
devoted himself to the South; he had listened reverently to prayers from the pulpit that God
would bless the Southern armies; he had never entered into battle without petitions to Heaven,
not that he might escape, but that the "Northern invader" might be overcome; his uniform had
been stained with blood again and again as he held dying comrades in his arms and spoke words
of cheer. In his more limited way, he had the spirit of "Stonewall" Jackson. It was impossible
for a man with his nature and with his memories to argue the whole matter over coolly and recognize
misleading errors. During his youth and early manhood his feelings had been so intense as to
be volcanic, and that feeling, like lava, had cooled of into its present unchangeable forms
and sombre hues. What was bitterness and almost spite in Mrs. Hunter was a deep, abiding sorrow
in his heart, a great dream unfulfilled, a cause lofty because so idealized, in support of
which he often saw in fancy, when alone, spectral thousands in gray, marching as he once had
seen them in actual life. That all had been in vain, was to him one of those mysterious providences
to which he could only bow his head in mournful resignation, in patient endurance. He had no
hate for the North, for he was broad enough in mind to recognize that it saw the question from
its own point of view, and, as a soldier, he knew that its men had fought gallantly. But the
North's side of the question was not his side. He had been conquered in arms but not convinced
in spirit. While he had respect and even admiration for many of his old foes, and malice toward
none, he still felt that there was a bridgeless chasm between them, and, by the instincts of
his nature, he kept himself aloof. If he could perform an act of kindness to a Northerner he
would do so unhesitatingly; then he would turn away with the impulse of an alien. He had no
ambitious schemes or hopes for the future; he had buried the "lost cause" as he had buried
his wife, with a grief that was too deep for tears. He had come to value life only for Ella's
sake, and he tried to do his best from a soldier-like and Christian sense of duty, until he
too could join his old comrade in arms.

Mrs. Hunter could not comprehend such a man, and he gave to her but the casual, respectful
sympathy which he thought due to a gentlewoman who had lost much like so many other thousands
in the South. After a brief call he hobbled away on his crutches, forgetting Mrs. Hunter and,
indeed, almost everything in the deep interest excited by Mara, the daughter of his old friend.
"Would to God," he muttered, "that Sidney Wallingford could have lived and seen that girl look
at him as she looked at me to-day."

Soon after Captain Bodine's departure, Mara pleaded fatigue and retired to her room, promising
to answer her aunt's many questions on the morrow. She was very sad and discouraged with herself,
and yet she had not the despairing sense of the utter futility of her life which had oppressed
her when she started out in the early afternoon.

She had become so absorbed and interested by the incidents and experiences of her visit as
to be almost happy. Just as she had attained a condition of mind which had not blessed her
for months, she must meet Owen Clancy. With a sort of inward rage and wonder, she asked herself:
"Why did my heart flutter so? Why did every nerve in my body tingle? He is nothing to me and
never can be, yet, when he passed, a spirit from heaven could hardly have moved me more. What
is his mysterious power which I cannot eradicate? Oh, oh, was not my life hard enough before?
Must I go on, hiding this bitter secret? fighting this hopeless and seemingly endless fight?
Well, well, thank God for this day, after all. In Ella Bodine and her father I have found friends
who will occupy my thoughts and become incentives which I did not possess before. Dear father,
my own dear, dead, soldier father, it would please you to have me do something for your old
friend."

The next morning was bright and sunny, and, after an early breakfast, Mara was in the kitchen,
with all the ingredients of the dainties she so skilfully produced, spread out upon the tables.
Ella had been asked to come early; her father had escorted her to Mara's residence, and then
gone away on an errand of his own.

The young girl was greeted with a warmth which made her at home at once, and proved the experiences
of the previous afternoon were not the result of mood or passing sentiment. There was a depth
in Mara's eyes and a firmness about her mouth and chin which did not indicate changing and
unreasoning "moods and tenses." In the clearer, calmer thought of the morning all her kind
purposes toward Captain Bodine and Ella had been strengthened, and she also believed more fully
that by interesting herself in them she would find the best antidote for her own trouble.

Ella had been welcomed by Mrs. Hunter, and now, as she sat in the little sun-lighted kitchen,
there was neither past nor future to her. The present scene, with its simple, homely details,
was all absorbing.

It meant very much to the girl, for she saw how Mara was achieving independence, and by work,
too, which housekeeping for her father enabled her to understand better than any other. Mara's
pulses were also quickened, for she understood the eager, intelligent glances of her friend.
For a few moments, Ella, as company, felt compelled to maintain the quiet position of spectator;
then overborne, she sprang up exclaiming: "Oh, Mara, dear, do give me an apron and let me help
you. I'd have such a jolly forenoon!"

"Why, certainly, Ella, if it would give you pleasure."

The article was produced, and, with a sigh of deep content, the girl tied it around a waist
by no means waspish. Then off came the little cuffs, and up the sleeves were rolled to the
shoulder.

"Ella, what lovely arms you have! If I were a man I should be distracted by such a pair of arms."

"Well," remarked the girl, looking at them complacently, "they'd be strong enough to help a
man that I cared sufficiently for to marry, but I haven't seen that man yet, and I hope his
lordship will keep his distance indefinitely--till I have more time to bother with him and
his distractions."

"Is your time, then, so completely occupied?"

"It isn't occupied at all, and that's the plague of it. But I reckon it soon will be," she
added with an emphatic little nod. "Papa shall learn that I can do something more for him than
cook, and your example has fired my ambition. I'll ransack this town till I find something
to do that will bring money. Dear old Mrs. Bodine! wasn't she perfectly enchanting yesterday?
Do you think I can be content to live in idleness on her slender means? No, indeed. I'd buy
a scrubbing-brush first. Oh, isn't this fun?" and the flour was already up to her elbows.

"Oh, Ella, dear, I'd feel just as you do if I had a father to work for."

"Now, Mara, don't talk so, or I'll put my floury arms right about your neck and spoil this
dough with a flood of briny tears. See, the sun is shining and there is work to be done. Let's
be jolly, and we'll have our little weep after sundown. Oh, Mara, dear, I wish I could make
you as light-hearted as I am. I used to think it was almost wicked for me to be so light-hearted,
but I don't think so any more, for I know I've kept papa from going down into horrid depths
of gloom. And then this irrepressible spirit of fun helps me over ever so many hard places."
She sprang back into the middle of the room, and, striking a serio-comic attitude, continued:
"Here I am in no end of trouble--for me. There is a grief preying on my vitals that would make
a poet's hair stand on end should he attempt to portray it. Were there a lover around the corner,
sighing like a furnace, I would say to him 'Avaunt! My heart is broken, and do you think I
can bother with you?' I am at odds with fate. I am in the most deplorable position into which
any human being can sink. I have nothing to do. But here is a weapon by which one girl has
conquered destiny," and she brandished the roller with which she had been pressing out the
dough, "and I, too, shall find a sword which will cut all the pesky knots of this snarled-up
old world. Then when I have achieved complete and lofty victory and independence, as you have,
dear, I may say to the lover around the corner, 'Step this way, sir. I must consider first
whether you would be agreeable to papa, and then whether you would be agreeable to me and then'--Oh,
what a little fool I am, and so many cookies to make. Please don't send me home. I will work
now like a beaver," and her round white arms grew tense as she rolled with a vigor that would
almost flatten brickbats.

Mara stood at one side watching her with eyes that grew wonderfully lustrous as was ever the
case when she was pleased or excited. Then she stole up behind Ella, and, putting her arm around
her neck, looked into her eyes as she asked, "Wouldn't you like to help me?"

"Of course I like to help you," said Ella, turning with surprise upon her friend.

"Now, Ella, be frank with me. Say no if you feel no. Wouldn't you like to help me all the time
and earn money in this way?"

A slow deep flush overspread Ella's face as she stood for a moment with downcast eyes as if
oppressed with a sense of shame. Then she said humbly: "Forgive me, Mara. I've been very thoughtless.
I didn't think you would take my ranting as an appeal to your generous heart. Believe me, Mara,
I was not hinting to you that I might share in the little you are earning so bravely. As if
you had not burdens enough already."

Mara never once removed her eyes from the girl's ingenuous face and permitted her to reveal
the unselfishness and sacred pride of her nature; then she said gently and firmly: "No, Ella,
I did not misunderstand you a moment, and I want you to understand me. In one sense we have
been acquainted always, yet we have loved each other from personal knowledge but a few short
hours. We Southern girls need no apologies for our swift intuitions, our quick, warm feelings.
I had this on my mind as soon as Mrs. Bodine told me about your being here, and I had quite
set my heart upon it as soon as I saw you. Ella, dear, I need help; I have more than I can
do. There is business enough to support us both, and I had almost concluded to ask Aim' Sheba
to get me a helper. But what a delight it would be to work with you!"

Ella's face had been brightening as if gathering all the sunshine in the spring sky, and she
was about to speak eagerly when Mara stopped her by a gesture. "Wait," she said, "I did not
say anything of this last evening because I was not sure you would like the work. If you do
not like it, you must be frank to tell me so. If you do enter on it you must let me manage
all in business-like ways, for I fear that you, like Aun' Sheba, will be inclined toward very
loose accounts. You must be willing to take what I feel that you should have, and there must
be no generous insubordination. Now you have the exact truth."

Ella's lip was quivering and her eyes were filling with gathering tears. With a little quaver
in her voice she struggled hard to give a mirthful conclusion to the affair. "I accept the
position, ma'am," she faltered, making a courtesy, then rushed into her friend's arms and sobbed:
"Oh, Mara, Mara, you have lifted such a burden from my heart! I have had many troubles, but
somehow it seemed that I couldn't bear this one, though I tried hard to keep the pain to myself--papa
and I being dependent. And then to have the whole trouble banished by working with you in just
the kind of work I like! Oh, Mara, darling, how can I ever thank you enough?"

"Good Lawd, honey, hab you heerd on any ob you'se folks dyin'?" and Aun' Sheba's awed face
and ample form filled the doorway, with Vilet's wondering little visage peeping around behind her.

Ella sprang away, and, turning her back on the newcomers, mopped her face vigorously with her
floury apron.

"No, Aun' Sheba," replied Mara, smiling through her tears, for Ella's strong emotion had unsealed
the fountain of her eyes, "I've only followed your good advice and secured just the kind of
help I need, the daughter of my father's dear old friend, Captain Bodine. I reckon you remember
him."

"Well, now, de Lawd be bressed!" ejaculated Aun' Sheba, sitting down with her great basket
at her feet. "'Member him? Reckon I does. I kin jes' see de han'-som boy as he march away wid
you'se fader. An' his little Missy is you'se helper?" and she looked curiously at Ella, who
was still seeking to gain self-control.

The girl wheeled around with a face wonderfully stained and streaked with flour and tears,
and, ducking just such a courtesy as Vilet would have made, said to Aun' Sheba, "Yes'm. I'm
the new hand. I'm a baker by trade."

Aun' Sheba's appreciation of humor was instantaneous, and she sat back in her chair, which
shook and groaned under her merriment. "Can't fool dis culled pusson," she began at last. "You
tink we doesn't keep up wid de times, but we does. I'se had a bery int'restin' season wid ole
Hannah, who lib wid Mis' Bodine, bress her heart! She's quality yere on arth an' she gwine
ter be quality in Hebin. I knows a heap 'bout you an' you'se pa. I knowd him 'fore you did.
I'se seed him in de gran' ole house in Meetin' Street a dinin' agin an' agin wid Marse Wallingford
an' my deah Misse Mary, den a bride, an' de gran' ole Major Buggone. Oh, Missy Mara, ef you
could ony seen de ole major, you'd a seen a genywine So' Car'liny gen'l'man ob wat dey call
de ole school. Reckon dey habn't any betteh schools now. An' young Marse Sidney, dat's you'se
fader, Missy, and young Marse Hugh, dat's you'se fader, Missy Ella, dey was han'som as picters
an' dey drink toasts ter Missy Mary an' compliment her an' she'd blush like a red rose; an'
wen dey all 'bout ter march away Missy Mary kiss Marse Hugh jes as ef he her own broder. Lor,
Lor, how it all come back ter me! Ef de Lawd don' bress de pa'na'ship twix' you two gyurls
den I des dun beat."

Regardless of flour the two little bakers stood before Aun' Sheba with arms around each other
while she indulged in reminiscences, then Ella, dashing away the tears that were gathering
again, said brusquely, "The new hand will have to be boss if we go on this way. Aun' Sheba,
we haven't got a blessed thing ready to put in your basket."

"Many han's make light wuck," said the old woman sententiously. "I come yere arly dis mawnin'
to gib Missy Mara a lif' kase she's been lookin' po'ly an' I hab her on my min' anxious-like.
But now, wid a larfin', sunshiny little ting like you aroun', Missy Ella, she'll soon be as
peart as a cricket. Vilet, chile, jes wait on me an' han' me tings, an' dese two baskets'll
be filled in de quickest jiffy you eber see."

And so it turned out. Aunt Sheba was a veteran in the field. Flour, sugar and spices seemed
to recognize her power and to come together as if she conjured. The stove was fed like the
furnace of Nebuchadnezzar, and the girls' faces suggested peonies as the cake grew light and brown.

Mrs. Hunter, having finished her morning duties, entered at last and looked with doubtful,
troubled eyes upon the scene. Ella and Aun' Sheba's mirthful talk ceased, while little Vilet
regarded the tall, gray-haired woman with awe.

"Well, times have changed," said the lady, with a sort of groan. "Our home has become little
better than a bake-shop."

"Well, Missus," replied Aun' Sheba, with the graven-image expression that she often assumed
before Mrs. Hunter, "I'se know'd of homes dat hab become wuss dan bake-shops. Neber in my bawn
days hab I heerd on an active, prosp'rous baker starbin'. Jes' you try dis cooky right fum
de stove an' see ef it doan melt in you'se mouf." And so Aun' Sheba stopped Mrs. Hunter's lamentations
and clinched her argument.

CHAPTER XVI

HONEST FOES

Captain Bodine's errand was characteristic of the man. He had accepted his cousin's hospitality
and sympathy most gratefully, and his quick apprehension had gathered from some of her words
that she was bent on moving her little segment of "heaven and earth," to secure him employment.
While perfectly ready to receive any gracious benefactions from heaven, where he justly believed
that the good old lady's power centred chiefly, he shrank from her terrestrial efforts in his
behalf, knowing that they must be made with very few exceptions among those who were straitened
and burdened already. He did not want a "place made" for him and to feel that other Southern
men were practicing a severer self-denial in order to do so. With a grim, set look on his face
as if he were going into battle, he halted downtown to the counting-room of one of the wealthiest
merchants and shippers in the City. He knew this man only by reputation, and his friends would
regard an application for employment to Mr. Houghton, as extraordinary as it certainly would
be futile in their belief. Mr. Houghton was quite as bitter against the South in general and
Charleston in particular as Mrs. Hunter in her enmity of all that savored of the North; and,
as human nature goes, they both had much reason, or rather cause, for their sentiments. The
experiences of many of that day were not conducive to calm historical estimates or to "the
charity that suffereth long and is kind." Mr. Houghton was a New England man, and hated slavery
almost as intensely as it deserved to be hated. The trouble with him had been that he did not
separate the "peculiar institution" widely enough from the men who had been taught by their
fathers, mothers and ministers to believe in it. He made no allowances for his Southern fellow-citizens,
as many of them would make none for him. With him, it was "Slave-driver"; with them, "Abolitionist";
yet he revered and they revered the great-hearted planter of Mount Vernon.

When the war came at last to teach its terrible, yet essential lessons, Mr. Houghton's eldest
son was among the first to exercise the courage of the convictions which had always been instilled
into his mind. The grim New Englander saw him depart with eyes that, although tearless, were
full of agony, also of hatred of all that threatened to cost him so much. His worst fears were
fulfilled, for his son was drowned in a night attack on Fort Sumter, and, in his father's morbid
fancy, still lay in the mud and ooze at the bottom of Charleston harbor.

The region gained a strange fascination for the stricken man, and he at last resolved to live
near his son's watery grave and take from the very hands of those whom he regarded as his boy's
murderers the business which they might regard as theirs naturally. So he removed to Charleston,
and employed his capital almost as an instrument of revenge. He did not do this ostentatiously,
or in any way that would thwart his purpose or his desire to accumulate money, but his aims
had come to be very generally recognized, and he received as much hate as he entertained. Yet
his wealth and business capacity made him a power in commercial circles, and Southern men,
who would no more admit him to their homes than they would an ogre, dealt with him in a cool
politeness that was but the counterpart of his grim civility.

Captain Bodine knew that Mr. Houghton employed much help in his business. He knew that the
work of many of his employes must be largely mechanical, requiring little or no intercourse
with the master, and the veteran reasoned, "I could give him honest work, and he in return,
pay me my salary, we personally not being under the slightest social obligation to each other.
I'd rather wring money from his hard fist than take it from the open hand of a too generous
friend. I could then get bread for Ella and myself on the simple ground of services rendered."

He therefore entered the outer office and asked for Mr. Houghton. A clerk said, "He is very
busy, sir. Cannot I attend to your matter?"

"I wish to see Mr. Houghton personally."

"Will you send in your card, sir?"

Captain Bodine took one from his pocket and wrote upon it, "I wish to see you briefly on a
personal matter." A moment later he was ushered into Mr. Houghton's presence, who was writing
rapidly at his desk. Bodine stood still, balancing himself on his crutches while the merchant
finished the sentence. He looked at the hard wrinkled face and shock of white hair with the
same steady composure that he had often faced a battery, as yet silent, but charged with fiery
missiles.

At last Mr. Houghton looked up with an impatient word upon his lip, but checked it as he saw
the striking figure before him. For an instant the two men looked steadily into each other's
eyes. Ever since the war, Captain Bodine had dressed in gray, and Mr. Houghton knew instinctively
that his visitor was a Confederate veteran. Then the captain's mutilation caught his attention,
and his very manhood compelled him to rise and stiffly offer a chair.

"You wished to see me personally," he remarked, coldly. "I must request you to be brief, for
I rarely allow myself to be disturbed at this hour."

"I will be brief. I merely come to ask if you have employment for a tolerably rapid, accurate
penman?"

"Do you refer to yourself?" Mr. Houghton asked, his brow darkening.

"I do, sir."

"Do you think this a sufficient excuse for interrupting me at this hour?"

"Yes, sir."

Again there was a fixed look in each other's eyes, and Mr. Houghton, with his large knowledge
of men and affairs, became more distinctly aware that he was not dealing with an ordinary character.
He put his thought in words, for at times he could be very blunt, and he was conscious of an
incipient antagonism to Bodine.

"You think you are a Southern gentleman, my equal, or rather, my superior, and entitled to
my respectful consideration at any hour of the day."

"I certainly think I am a Southern gentleman. I do not for a moment think I am entitled to
anything from you."

"Yet you come and ask a favor with as much dignity as if you represented the whole State of
South Carolina."

"No, sir, I represent only myself, and I have asked no favor. There are many in your employ.
I supposed your relations with them were those of business, not of favor."

"Well, sir," replied Mr. Houghton, coldly, "there are plenty with whom I can enter into such
relations without employing an enemy of my country."

"Mr. Houghton, I will bring this interview to a close at once, and then you can settle the
matter in a word. Your country will never receive any harm from me. I am one of a conquered
people, and I have now no ambition other than that of earning bread for my child and myself.
You have dealings with Southern men and ex-Confederate soldiers. You buy from them and sell
to them. I, as one of them, ask nothing more than that you should buy my labor for what it
is worth to you in dollars and cents. Regard my labor as a bale of cotton, and the case is
simple enough."

The lava-crust over the crater of the old man's heart was breaking up, for the interview was
recalling all the associations which centred around the death of his son. Captain Bodine evoked
a strange mixture of antipathy and interest. There was something in the man which compelled
his respect, and yet he seemed the embodiment of the spirit which the New Englander could neither
understand nor tolerate. His thought had travelled far beyond business, and he looked at his
visitor with a certain wrathful curiosity. After a moment he said abruptly, "You fought through
the war, I suppose?"

"I fought till I was disabled, sir, but I tried to do a soldier's duty to the close of the war."

"Duty!" ejaculated Mr. Houghton, with an accent of indescribable bitterness. "You would have
killed my son if you had met him?"

"Certainly, if I met him in fair fight and he did not kill me first."

"There wasn't any fair fight at all," cried the old man passionately. "It was an atrocious,
wicked, causeless rebellion."

The dark blood mounted to Captain Bodine's very brow, but he controlled himself by a strong
effort, and only said calmly, "That is your opinion."

The veins fairly stood out on Mr. Houghton's flushed, usually pallid, face. "Do you know,"
he almost hissed, "that my boy lies at the bottom of your accursed harbor yonder?"

"I did not know it, sir. I do know that the sons of Southern fathers and the fathers themselves
lie beside him."

"But what was the use of it all? Damn the whole horrible crime! What was the use of it all?"

A weaker, smaller-brained man than Bodine would have retorted vehemently in kind and left the
place, but the captain was now on his mettle and metaphorically in the field again, with the
foe before him. What is more, he respected his enemy. This Northern man did not belong to the
ex-governor Moses type. He was outspoken and sincere to the heart's core in his convictions,
and moreover that heart was bleeding in father-love, from a wound that could never be stanched.
Bodine resolved to put all passion under his feet, to hold his ground with the coolness and
tenacity of a general in a battle, and attain his purpose without the slightest personal compromise.
His indomitable pride led him to feel that he would rather work for this honest, implacable
foe than for any man in the city, because their relations would be so purely those of business,
and to bring him to terms now would be a triumph over which he could inwardly rejoice.

"Mr. Houghton," he said, gravely, "we have wandered far from the topic which I at first introduced.
Your reference to your son proves that you have a heart; your management of business certifies
to a large brain. I think our conversation has made it clear that we are both men of decided
convictions and are not afraid to express them. If you were a lesser man than you are, I would
have shrugged my shoulders contemptuously and left your office long ago. Yet I am your equal,
and you know it, although I have scarcely a penny in the world. I am also as honest as you
are, and I would work for you all the more scrupulously because you detest me and all that
I represent. I, on the other hand, would not expect a single grain of allowance or consideration,
such as I might receive from a kindly disposed employer. We would not compromise each other
in the slightest degree by entering into the relations of employer and employed. I would obey
your orders as a soldier has learned to obey. Apart from business we should be strangers. I
knew we were hostile in our feelings, but I had the impression--which I trust may be confirmed--that
you were not a commonplace enemy. The only question between us is, 'Will you buy my labor as
you would any other commodity in the Charleston market?'"

Captain Bodine's words proved his keen appreciation of character. The old man unconsciously
possessed the spirit of a soldier, and it had been evoked by the honest, uncompromising attitude
of the Southerner. His emotion passed away. His manner became as courteous as it was cold and
impassive. "You are right, sir," he said, "we are hostile and will probably ever remain so,
but you have put things in a light which enables me to comply with your wishes. I take you
at your word, and will buy your labor as I would any other article of value. I know enough
of life to be aware of the courtesy which occasionally exists between men whose feelings and
beliefs strongly conflict, yet I agree with you that, apart from business, we can have little
in common. When can you come?"

"To-morrow."

"Are you willing to leave the question of compensation open till I can learn what your services
are actually worth?"

"I should prefer to have the question settled in that way."

Both men arose. "Good-morning, Captain Bodine," said the merchant, bowing slightly. "Good-morning,
Mr. Houghton," and the captain halted quietly back to Mrs. Bodine's home of faded gentility.

Mr. Houghton sat down at his desk and leaned his head thoughtfully upon his hand. "I wouldn't
have believed that I could have done this," he muttered. "If he had knuckled to me one iota
I would have shown him the door; if he hadn't been so crippled--if he hadn't been so downright
honest and brave--confound it! he almost made me feel both like killing him and taking him
by the hand. Oh, Herbert, my poor, lost boy, I don't wonder that you and so many fine fellows
had to die before such men were conquered."

CHAPTER XVII

FIRESIDE DRAMAS

Ella was so overjoyed at her prospects when all had been explained to her, that she insisted
on Mara's spending the evening at the Bodines' so that her father might understand the whole
arrangement.

When she returned early in the afternoon, she found him, as Mara had before, reading quietly
at one of the parlor windows. He looked up with not only glad welcome in his eyes, but also
with much genuine interest, for he was anxious to learn what further impression Mara had made
upon his daughter. The man who had accepted patient endurance as his lot, could scarcely comprehend
the profound impression made upon him by the child of his old friend. He had made no effort
to analyze his feelings, not dreaming that there was any reason why he should do this. To his
mind circumstances and the girl herself were sufficient to account for the deepest sympathy.
Then that look with which she had regarded him on the previous evening--he could never forget
that while he lived. He therefore regarded Ella's flushed, happy face, and said, "You seem
to hesitate in letting your experiences be known, but I reckon, from the sparkle of your eyes,
that you have had a good time."

"Oh, papa, I have had a good time, so much more than a good time. I hesitate because I don't
know just how or where to begin--how to tell you all the good news. Dear papa, you have had
so many more troubles than I have, and some perhaps which you think I do not share in very
deeply. It was best for us both that I did not--too deeply. But you have a trouble now in which
I do share more than you know, more than I wanted you to know. We were here dependent on our
dear old cousin who is so unselfish that she would almost open her poor old veins for us. This
was too hard for either of us to endure very long, and I had made up my mind that I would do
something to relieve you--that if Mara could earn money I could."

"My dear child, I appreciate your feelings, and you have understood mine, but let me hasten
to assure you that I have found a way by which I can support you and myself also."

"You have? So soon? Oh, that is glorious. Tell me all about it."

"No, indeed. Not till I have your wonderful news, and learn how you enjoyed your visit."

"No more visiting for me, or rather perpetual visiting. Oh, papa, think what bliss! I'm to
help Mara, work with Mara every day, and have a share in the profits."

The captain's face grew sad and almost stern. Ella understood him instantly, and put her hand
over his mouth as he was about to speak. "Now, papa, don't you perform the same little tragedy
that I did. I know just how you feel and what you are going to say. Mara had it in her mind
the moment she heard I was in town and--"

"Ella," interrupted her father, firmly, "I do not often cross you, but you must let me decide
this question. Mara is capable of any degree of self-sacrifice, of even something like a noble
deception in this case. No, this cannot be. I would protect that girl even as I would you,
and you both need protection against your own generous impulses more than all else."

In vain she tried to explain, and recounted minutely all that had happened. The captain was
so deeply touched that his eyes grew dim with moisture. Again he exclaimed, "Would to God Sidney
Wallingford had lived, even though poor and crippled as I am, that he might have worshipped
this noble-hearted, generous girl. She has indeed a rare nature. She carried out her self-sacrificing
purpose well, but I understand her better than you do, my dear. With all a woman's wit, tact,
and heart she deceived you and would deceive us all. She would smile in triumph as she denied
herself for our sakes what she most needed. But, Ella, you know we cannot let her do this."

The girl was staggered and in sore perplexity. Her father's view was not pleasing to her ingenuous
nature; there had been a sincerity in Mara's words and manner which had been confirmed not
only by circumstances, but also by Aun' Sheba's hearty approval. "I shall be sorry if what
you think is true," she said, sadly. "I don't wish to be deceived, not even from such motives
as you attribute to Mara, and, of course, she could have no others if you are right. But how
can you be right? There was such a verity about it all. Why, papa, when at first I imagined
that Mara might have thought I had been hinting in my very foolish talk that I wished what
afterward took place, I was so overwhelmed with shame that I could hardly speak. If you had
seen how she reassured me, and heard her earnest words, declaring she needed me--oh, if that
was all deception, even from the kindest and noblest motive, I should be wounded to the heart,
I could never be sure of Mara again and scarcely of any one else. I can't think as you do.
Let us ask Cousin and see what she thinks."

The captain was now in perplexity himself, yet he held to his first impression. "I admit,"
he said, hesitatingly, "that it was not the wisest course on Mara's part, yet often the best
people, especially when young, ardent, and a little morbid, are led by the noblest motives
to do what is unwise and scarcely right. Mara is not an ordinary girl, and cannot be judged
by common standards. Be assured, she would die rather than deceive you to your harm, but a
purpose to do you good might confuse both her judgment and conscience, especially if it involved
self-sacrifice on her part. You must not blame me if I wish to be more thoroughly convinced.
Yes, you can ask Cousin Sophy's opinion if you wish."

"Then come with me, papa, and state your case as strongly as you can. I'd rather go hungry
than go forward another step if you are right."

The wise old lady, who could talk by the hour on most occasions, listened to both sides of
the question and then remarked with sphinx-like ambiguity. "Your father, Ella, has obtained
a remarkably correct idea of Mara's character. You know I told her in your hearing that she
had a passion for self-sacrifice, and was prone to take a morbid sense of duty. At the same
time, I do not by any means say he is right in this particular instance. Mara is coming this
evening--let her satisfy you both in her own way. I have my opinion, but would rather she would
make the matter plain to you."

The shrewd old lady, to whom the wheels of time often seemed to move slowly, was bent on a
bit of drama at her own fireside, at the same time believing that a word, a tone, or even a
glance from the young girl herself would have more power to banish the captain's doubts than
anything she could say. "And yet," thought Mrs. Bodine, "Mara is capable of just this very
kind of dissimulation."

Evening in the South differs slightly from our late afternoon, and the sun was scarcely below
the horizon when Mara arrived under the escort of Mrs. Hunter, who had also been invited. Therefore
Ella in her feverish impatience had not long to wait.

Mrs. Bodine's simple meal was over, and after having had a fire lighted on the parlor hearth,
she had ensconced herself in a low rocking-chair in readiness to receive her guests. There
was a sort of stately cordiality in the meeting between her and Mrs. Hunter, quiet courtesy
on the part of Captain Bodine toward all, while honest Ella could not banish a slight constraint
from her manner. Mara gradually became conscious of this and wondered at it. She also soon
observed that no reference was made to the compact of the morning, and this perplexed her still
more.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Bodine, having all the dramatis personae about her, was complacency embodied,
and not averse to taking a part in the little play herself. She managed at first that the conversation
should be general. She serenely indulged in reminiscences which waked others from Mrs. Hunter,
and even the captain was beguiled into half-humorous old-time anecdotes about some one they
all knew.

"Well," ejaculated Mrs. Bodine, sighing, "that--oh, good gracious! what was I going to say?
Cousin Hugh, you can remember that my most excellent husband accustomed me to rather strong
adjectives. Well, that hardhearted old wretch, Mr. Houghton, eventually got all the property
of the poor man we were talking about."

"Did he?" said the captain, quietly. "Well, I reckon I'll get some of it back again."

"You? I'd like to know how. He'd take your head off at one bite if he could."

"I reckon he would; he looked so inclined this morning. I spent half an hour alone with him
this morning, and am going to work for him to-morrow."

The general exclamations amounted to a chorus, and Mrs. Hunter, bridling, began formally and
almost severely, "Pardon me, Captain Bodine, I do not wish to be presuming or officious, but
I fear you have been absent from the city so long that you are not aware of the general estimation
in which this Northern carpet-bagger is held."

"I certainly have had a chance to form my own opinion of him, Mrs. Hunter, and I reckon that
he and I will not be any better friends than he and you would be."

"Friends," ejaculated the old lady, "I could annihilate him. Oh, Captain Bodine, believe me,
you have made a mistake. What will be left of our past if the best and bravest of our number
strike hands with these vampires of the North?"

"I have not struck hands with him, nor do I ever expect to."

"Hugh, Cousin Hugh," protested Mrs. Bodine, "I don't understand this move at all."

"Papa," cried Ella, with her arms about his neck, "you have done this for my sake, so do please
give it up for my sake. Some other way will be provided for us."

"Mara, are you, too, down on me?"

"No, sir, never; but I'll share my last crust with you if you will have nothing to do with
that man."

"I thought so, you brave, generous girl. That was like your father, and reminds me of a bit
of experience. We were on a forced march, and the provision train had not kept up. It was night,
and we were too weary to hunt around for a morsel. Wallingford (he was major then) came to
me and said, 'Bodine, I've a hard tack and one cup of coffee. We'll go halves,' and so we did.
He was so impolite as to take his half first. Do you know why?"

"I can guess," she replied with downcast brimming eyes.

"I reckon you can--you of all others; but he didn't succeed. I turned on him in mock severity
and remarked, 'Major Wallingford, I never thought you would try to overreach an old friend.
See, you have scarcely taken over a third of the coffee and hard tack.' He slapped me on the
back and declared he would have me arrested for insubordinate and disrespectful language. Considering
what sleepy, jaded men we were, we had a lot of fun over that meagre banquet, but he had to
yield even if he were my superior. I fear you are inclined to go halves just like your father."

"Well, Hugh," cried Mrs. Bodine impatiently, "even that is better than your taking whatever
this--this--I want an adjective that is not too wicked."

"No matter, Cousin Sophy, we'll each supply one according to our own degree of wickedness.
A Yankee would say 'darned' though, confound the fellows, they seem to learn to fight and swear
in equal degrees."

"I won't say 'darned,'" said the old lady, almost trembling in her irritation and excitement,
for she was being treated to more of a drama than she had bargained for. "It is a word I never
heard my husband use. Bah! all words are inadequate. I say anything is better than that you
should go to this old Houghton for what little he may choose to give you."

"Now, I appeal to you, Mara--is this fair, four against one?"

"But, dear Captain Bodine, you don't know how deeply we feel about this."

"Ah, that is the charge our enemies bring against us. We feel, but don't reason, they say.
We have much reason to retort, 'You reason, but have no feeling and little comprehension for
those that have.' Come, I will be serious now," and his expression became grave and firm. "Cousin
Sophy, Mr. Houghton will never give me a penny, nor would I take a gift from him even if starving,
yet I have a genuine respect for the man. Let me, as a soldier, illustrate my course, and then
I will explain more fully. Suppose I was on a march and was hungry. On one hand were ample
provisions in the camp of the enemy; on the other a small farmhouse occupied by friends who
had already been robbed of nearly all they had. If I went to these friends they would, as Mara
has said, share their last crust. Do you not think it would be more in accordance with the
feelings of a man to make a dash at the enemy's overflowing larder, and not only get what I
needed but also bring away something for my impoverished friends? I reckon it would. I much
prefer spoiling the Egyptians, cost me what it may. My dear child," turning to Mara, "do you
think I would take half your crust when I know you need the whole of it? No, indeed. Then you
must remember that we got in the habit of living off the enemy during the war. To drop all
this figurative talk, let me put the matter in plain English, as I did to Mr. Houghton this
morning. We had a pretty hot action, I can tell you. There was no compromise in word or manner
on either side, but he listened to reason, and so will you. Pick out your most blue-blooded,
stanchest South Carolinians, in the city, and they deal with Mr. Houghton. They sell to him;
they buy of him, and there it all ends. I have no cotton to sell, but I told him to regard
my labor as a bale of cotton and to buy it, if he so wished, at what it was worth. I also told
him that apart from our business relations we would be strangers, so you see I am neither better
nor worse, practically, no different from other Charlestonians."

Mrs. Bodine leaned back in her chair, and laughed till the tears came into her eyes. "I do
declare," she gasped: "God made men different from women, and I reckon He knew what He was
about. I surrender, Cousin Hugh. Your argument has blown me out of the water. Spoil this old
Egyptian to your heart's content, only remember when there are no Egyptians to spoil, if you
don't come to your friends you will have one savage old woman to deal with."

Mrs. Hunter shook her head dubiously. "I don't know what to think of all this," she said. "It
appears to me that it tends to break down the partition wall between us and those from whom
we have received wrongs which should never be forgiven."

"My dear Mrs. Hunter," replied the captain, urbanely, "the more the partition wall is broken
down in one sense, the better. Isn't it wiser for me to get money out of Mr. Houghton than
to sulk and starve? I had to break through the wall to get bread. Of course," he added quietly,
"we all understand one another. My military figures of speech must not be pressed too far.
I do not propose to knock Mr. Houghton on the head, or even take the smallest possible advantage
of him. On the contrary, because we are hostile, I shall be over-scrupulous, if possible, to
do his work well. From him, as I told him, I expect not the slightest allowance, consideration,
or kindness."

"Oh," thought Mara, "how clearly he has put my own thought and wish. Why could not Owen Clancy
have earned his own bread and mine by taking the course of this brave Southern man? I have
been shown to-night how noble, how dignified and how easy it was. Why should he talk of love
when he will not see what is so reasonable in the action of another?"

"Cousin Hugh, you said one thing which needs explanation. You said you had a respect for this
man floughton, who we all know has not a particle of good-will toward us."

"Chiefly because he is such an honest enemy," Bodine replied. "He makes hard bargains with
our people when he can, but have you ever heard of his cheating or doing anything underhand?
I learned a good deal about his business character while in Georgia, and his course to-day
corresponded with what I had been told. Moreover, his feelings got the better of him, and he
revealed in one passionate sentence that his eldest son was killed, and, as he says, lies at
the bottom of our harbor here. This fact enabled me to stand better what I had to take from
him," and in answer to his cousin's questions he revealed the substance of the interview. "I
do this," he concluded, "that you and other friends may better understand my course. To-morrow
Mr. Houghton becomes my employer, and I shall owe a certain kind of loyalty. The more seldom
we mention his name thereafter, the better; and I shall never speak of him except in terms
of cold respect."

"Since you have told me about his son," said Mrs. Bodine, "I won't avail myself of the privilege
of freeing my mind to-night, even if it will be my last chance, that is when you are present.
After all, why should I berate him? In one aspect he is to me a sort of ogre representing all
that is harsh, intolerant and cruel, rejoicing in his power to drain the life-blood of a conquered
and impoverished people; yet he rose before me as you spoke as a heartbroken father, warped
and made unnatural by pain, haunted by the ghost of his son whom his arms cannot embrace. Sometimes
when thinking alone, the people of the world seem like a lot of squabbling children, with only
degrees of badness and goodness between them. Children make no allowances for each other. It
is like or dislike, quick and manifested. It is well there is a Heavenly Father over all who
may lead one and all of us 'to make up' some day. I tell you what it is, Hugh, we may all have
to shake hands in Heaven."

"Like enough, Cousin Sophy. In matters pertaining to Heaven you are a better authority than I am."

"For very good reason. Heaven is nearest those who feel its need most. You may think I am a
queer Christian, and I sometimes think so myself--hating some people as near as I dare, and
calling old Houghton a wretch. Don't I know about his heartache? Who better than I? God knows
I would give his son back to him if I could. God knows I can almost swear at him; He knows
also that if he were brought into this house wounded I'd nurse him with my feeble hand as I
would you, Cousin Hugh, but I would be apt to say when he got well (and here came in her little
chirping laugh), 'Good sir, I have not the slightest objection to your going back to Massachusetts,
bag and baggage.' By the way, he has another son who has not been much in Charleston--being
educated at the North, they say. He must be a grown man now. I was told that when here last
he resented the fact bitterly that there was some society in town which he could not enter."

"I reckon not," remarked Mrs. Hunter, grimly, and then followed some desultory conversation
between the two elder ladies.

As was frequently his custom--in common with men whose past is more than their future promises
to be--the captain had lapsed into a train of thought which took him far away from present
surroundings. He was roused by Mrs. Hunter's preparations for departure, and looking suddenly
at Mara, saw that her eyes were filled with tears. He was at her side instantly, and, taking
her hand, asked gently, "What troubles you, my child?"

With bowed head she replied: "I understand you, Captain Bodine; your words have made everything
clear to me."

He still held her hand and thought a moment. "About Ella's coming to you?" he asked.

"Yes, I'm not one of the Egyptians, but I'd so set my heart on it."

"Because of your need, not Ella's?" again the captain queried, while his grasp on her hand
tightened.

"Oh, Captain Bodine, do you think I could deceive you or a girl like Ella under any circumstances?
If she did not come after to-day I feel that I should give up in despair very soon. I do need
help, and just such help to body and mind as she can give me."

"Forgive me, Mara. The little story I told about your father explains why I feared. But we
will say no more about it. I would rather have Ella with you than with any one else in the world."

"There," cried that buoyant young woman, "I knew I was right. Out of the mouths of babes and
sucklings you old people are destined to learn wisdom."

"Well," said Mrs. Bodine, "I've had more drama tonight than I reckoned on, and I haven't been
leading lady either. Will the chief baker escort me to the dining-room?"

After cake and cream, the captain escorted Mrs. Hunter and Mara home. He detained the latter
at the door a moment, and said gently, "Mara, shun the chief danger of your life. Never be
unfair to yourself."

CHAPTER XVIII

A FAIR DUELLIST

The great hand of time which turns the kaleidoscope of human affairs appeared to move slowly
for a few weeks, as far as the characters of my story are concerned. The two little bakers
worked together daily, one abounding in mirth and drollery, and the other cheered, or rather
beguiled from melancholy in spite of herself. Business grew apace, not only because two girls
who evoked general sympathy were the principals of the firm, but also for the reason that they
put something of their own dainty natures into their wares. Aun' Sheba trudged and perspired
in moderation, for the fleet-footed Vilet seemed to outrun Mercury. Moreover, the "head-pahners,"
as Aun' Sheba called them, insisted that their commercial travellers should take the street-cars
when long distances were involved.

Captain Bodine and Mr. Houghton maintained their business relation in the characteristic manner
indicated by their first interview. The ex-Confederate was given some routine work which kept
him at a remote desk a certain number of hours a day, and employer and employee rarely met,
and scarcely ever spoke to each other. The captain, however, had no reason to complain of his
salary, which was paid weekly, and sufficed for his modest needs. So far from being dependent
on his large-hearted cousin, he and Ella were enabled to contribute much to her material comfort,
and immeasurably to her daily enjoyment. She and Ella were in the sunshine again, and it was
hard to say which of the two talked the most genial nonsense. The old lady had what is termed
"a sweet tooth," and loved dainties. The two girls, therefore, vied with each other in evolving
rare and harmless delicacies.

"Two Ariels are ministering to me," she said, "and sometimes I feel so jolly that I would like
to share with that old--I mean Mr. Houghton."

The girls never forgot, however, the depths beneath the ripple and sparkle of the old lady's
manner.

As spring verged into summer, Uncle Sheba yielded more and more to the lassitude of the season.
His "bobscure 'fliction" seemed to grow upon him, if it were possible to note degrees in his
malady, but Aun' Sheba said, "'Long as he is roun' like a log an' don' bodder me I is use'
ter it." He even began to neglect the "prar-meetin'," and old Tobe told him to his face, "You'se
back-slidin' fur as you kin slide, inch or so." His son-in-law, Kern Watson, had won such a
good reputation for steadiness that he was taken into the fire department. When off duty he
was always with "Sissy an' de chilen."

Outwardly there was but slight change in Owen Clancy. He had never been inclined to make many
intimate acquaintances, and those who knew him best only noted that he seemed more reserved
about himself if possible, and that he was unusually devoted to business. Yet he was much spoken
of in business circles, for it was known that he was the chief correspondent of the wealthy
Mr. Ainsley of New York, who was making large investments in the South. Among the progressive
men of the city, no matter what might be their political faith and association, the young man
was winning golden opinions, for it was clearly recognized that he ever had the interest of
his section at heart, that in a straightforward, honorable manner he was making every effort
to enlist Northern capital in Southern enterprises. He had withdrawn almost wholly from social
life, and ladies saw him but seldom in their drawing-rooms. When among men, however, he talked
earnestly and sagaciously on the business topics of the hour. The evening usually found him
with book in hand in his bachelor apartment.

Beneath all this ordinary ebb and flow of daily life, changes were taking place, old forces
working silently, and new ones entering in to complicate the problems of the future. As unobtrusively
as possible, Clancy kept himself informed about Mara and all that related to her welfare. By
some malign fate, as she deemed it, she would unexpectedly hear of him, encounter him on the
street, also, yet rarely now, meet him at some small evening company. He would permit no open
estrangement, and always compelled her to recognize him. One evening, to her astonishment and
momentary confusion he quietly took a seat by her side and entered into conversation, as he
might have done with other ladies present. By neither tone nor glance did he recognize any
cause for estrangement between them, and he talked so intelligently and agreeably as to compel
her admiration. His mask was perfect, and after an instant hers was equally so, yet all the
time she was as conscious of his love as of her own.

He recognized the new element which the Bodines had brought into her life, and with a lover's
keen instinct began to surmise what the captain might become to her. He was not long in discovering
the former relations of the veteran to Colonel Wallingford, and he justly believed that, as
yet, Mara's regard was largely the result of that old friendship and an entire accordance in
views. But he was not so sure about Bodine, whom he knew but slightly and with whom he had
no sympathy. He had learned substantially the ground on which the captain had taken employment
from Mr. Houghton, and as we know, he was bitterly hostile to that whole line of policy. "It
would eventually turn every Southern man into a clerk," he muttered, "when it is our patriotic
duty to lead in business as in everything else that pertains to our section." Yet he knew,
or at least believed, that if he had taken the same course Mara might now be his wife.

Sometimes, when reading, apparently, he would throw down his book and say aloud in his solitude,
"Bah, I'm more loyal to the South than this sombre-faced veteran. He would keep his State forever
in his own crippled condition. No crutches for the South, I say; no general clerkship to the
North, but an equal onward march, side by side, to one national destiny. He thinks he is a
martyr and may very complacently let Mara think so too. Who has given up the more? He a leg,
and I my heart's love!"

It has already been shown that Clancy touched the extremes of political and social life in
the city. Some, of whom Mrs. Hunter was an exasperated exponent, could be cold toward him,
but they could neither ignore nor despise him. Those beginning to cast off the fetters of enmity
and prejudice, secretly admired him and were friendly. While cordial in his relations, therefore,
with Northern people and Northern enterprises of the right stamp, he had not so lost his hold
on Mara's exclusive circle as to remain in ignorance of what was transpiring within it, and
he secretly resolved that if Bodine sought to take the girl of his heart from him, and, as
he truly believed, from all chance of true happiness herself, he would give as earnest a warning
as ever one soul gave to another.

In June he received a strong diversion to his thoughts. Mr. Ainsley wrote him from New York,
in effect, that he with his daughter would soon be in Charleston--that his interests in the
South had become so large as to require personal attention; also that he had new enterprises
in view. The young man's interest and ambition were naturally kindled. As Mara had taken the
Bodines and their affairs as an antidote for her trouble, he sought relief in the preoccupation
which the Ainsleys might bring to his mind. Accordingly he met father and daughter at the station
and escorted them to the hotel with some degree of pleasurable excitement.

Miss Ainsley made the same impression of remarkable beauty and cosmopolitan culture as at first.
There was a refined, easy poise in her bearing. Indeed he almost fancied that, to her mind,
coming to Charleston was a sort of condescension, she had visited so many famous cities in
the world. She greeted him cordially, and to a vain man her brilliant eyes would have expressed
more than the mere pleasure of seeing an old acquaintance again.

But few days elapsed before Mr. Ainsley was on the wing, here and there where his interests
called him, meantime making the Charleston hotel his headquarters. Miss Ainsley's friend, Mrs.
Willoughby, carried off the daughter to her pretty home on the Battery, where sea-breezes tempered
the Southern sun. Clancy aided the father satisfactorily in business ways, and the daughter
found him so agreeable socially as to manifest a wish to see him often. She interested him
as a "rara avis" which he felt that he would like to understand better, and he would have been
less than a man if not fascinated by her beauty, accomplishments and intelligence. Miss Ainsley
could not fail to charm the eyes of sense as well, and she was not chary of the secret that
she had been fashioned in one of Nature's finest molds. The soft, warm languor of the summer
evenings was, to her, ample excuse for revealing the glowing marble of her neck and bosom to
dark Southern eyes, and admirers began to gather like bees to honey ready made.

Clancy had wished to see her deportment toward other young men, and now had the opportunity.
The result flattered him in spite of himself. To others she was courteous, affable and sublimely
indifferent. When he approached it seemed almost as if a film passed from her eyes, that she
awakened into a fuller life and became an enchantress in her versatile powers. He responded
with as fine a courtesy as her own, although quite different, but there was a cool, steady
self-restraint in eyes and manner which piqued and charmed her.

Clancy would be long in learning to understand Miss Ainsley. He might never reach the secret
of her life, and certainly would not unless he bluntly asked her to marry him--asked her so
bluntly and persistently that all the wiles of which woman is capable opened no avenue of escape.
She was an epicure of the finest type. If she had been asked to a banquet on Mount Olympus,
she would have preferred to dine from the one delicious dish of ambrosia most to her taste
and to sip only the choicest brand of nectar. Profusion, even at a feast of the gods, would
have no charms for her. She had begun to see the world so early and had seen so much of it
that she had learned the art of elimination to perfection. Sensuous to the last degree, but
not sensual, she had a cool self-control and a fineness of taste which led her to choose but
a few refined pleasures at a time and then to enjoy them deliberately and until satiety pointed
to a new choice. Keen of intellect, she had studied society and with almost the skill of a
naturalist had recognized the various types of men and women. This cool observation had taught
her much worldly wisdom. She saw all about her, mere girls jaded with life already, faded young
women keeping up with the fashionable procession as fagged out soldiers drag themselves along
in the rear of a column. She had seen fresh young debutantes rush into the giddy whirl to become
pallid from the excess of one season. At one time, she and other friends of hers had been exultant,
excited and distracted by their many admirers and suitors. She soon wearied, however, of this
indiscriminate slaughter, and the devoted eager attentions, the manifest desires and hopes
of commonplace men, so far from kindling a sense of triumph and power, almost made her ill.
She became like a knight of the olden time who had hewn down inferiors until he was sick of gore.

And so she gradually withdrew from the fashionable rout, took time for reading and study and
the perfection of her accomplishments. She accepted merely such invitations as were agreeable
to her, smiling contemptuously at the idea that in order to maintain position in society one
must wear herself out by rushing around to everything; and society respected her all the more.
It became a triumph to secure her presence; but she only went where everything would accord
with her taste and inclination. This was true of her life abroad as well as at home. Conscious
of her father's wealth, and that, apart from an unexacting companionship to him, she could
do as she pleased, she proposed to make the most of life as she estimated it. She would have
all the variety she wished, but she would take it leisurely. She would not perpetrate the folly
of gulping pleasures, still less would she permit herself to fall tumultuously in love with
some ordinary man only to waken from a romantic dream to discover how ordinary he was.

She was also too shrewd, indeed one may almost say too wise, to think of an ambitious marriage.
The man of millions or the man of rank or fame could never buy her unless personally agreeable
to her. Yet she was rarely without a suitor, whom to a certain point she encouraged. Unless
a man possessed some real or fancied superiority which pleased or interested her, she was practically
inaccessible to him. She would be courtesy itself, yet by her strong will and tact would speedily
make a gentleman understand, "You have no claim upon me; your wishes are nothing to me." If
he interested her, however, if she admired him even slightly, she would give him what she might
term a chance. Then to her mind their relations became much like a duel; she at least would
conquer him; he might subdue her if he could; she would give him the opportunity, and if he
could find a weak place in her polished armor and pierce her heart she would yield. The question
was whether she had a heart, and she was not altogether sure of this herself. On one thing,
however, she was resolved--she would not give up her liberty, ease and epicurean life for the
duties, obligations and probable sorrows of wifehood, unless she met a man who had the power
to make this course preferable.

During Clancy's visit to New York in the winter, Mr. Ainsley had spoken of him to his daughter
in terms that interested her before she even saw the young man, and the moment the experienced
woman of the world (for she was a woman of the world, though but little past her majority)
looked upon him she was still more interested, recognizing at a glance the truth that whatever
Clancy might be, he was not commonplace. This explains why he was perplexed by the intentness
and soft fire of her eyes. If the way opened, she was inclined to give him "a chance." It might
cost him dear, as it had others, but that was his affair. She felt that he was highly honored
and distinguished in being given what she contemptuously denied to the great majority. The
way had opened. She was in Charleston, and now, this particular and lovely June evening found
her on a balcony overlooking the shining ripples of the bay, reclining in a cane chair with
her head leaning against a pillar and her eyes fixed on him with all the dangerous fascination
they possessed. Some soft, white clinging material draped her form that was rendered more graceful
than usual by her well-chosen attitude. A spray from an ivy vine hung above her, and its slightly
moving shadow flickered on her throat and bosom. She knew she was entrancingly beautiful; so
did he. He felt that if he were an artist nothing was left to be desired. As a man he was flattered
with her preference and charmed with her beauty. He did not and could not believe that he had
more than a passing interest in her mind as yet, and he felt that she would never be more to
him than a gifted lovely friend, who could at one and the same time gratify his taste and bestow
fine intellectual companionship. They talked freely with lapses of silence between them. These
she would occasionally break with little snatches of song from some opera. Her familiarity
with life abroad enabled her to say much which supplemented his reading and which interested
him. So he was not averse to these interviews and was conscious of no danger.

To her they had an increasing pleasure. She was delighted that Clancy thawed so deliberately,
that instead of speedily verging toward sentiment he found more pleasure in her intellectuality
than in her outward beauty. So many others to whom she had given a chance had quickly lost
both their heads and hearts, and she was beginning to rejoice in the belief that it might require
a summer's tactics to beguile him of either. His gray eyes, which appeared dark in the moonlight,
were clearly regarding her with quiet admiration, but instead of paying a compliment he would
broach some topic so interesting in itself that before she knew it she was talking well and
even brilliantly.

This present evening he did pay her a compliment, however, which delighted her. She had stated
her view of a subject, and he had replied, "I must differ with you most decidedly, Miss Amsley."
Then he added with a little apologetic laugh, "I could have made such a remark to very few
ladies. I would have said, 'I beg your pardon, do not think I am contradicting you, but possibly
on further reflection--' In brief, I would have gone through the whole conventional circumlocution.
You are a woman of mind, and you put your views so strongly and clearly that I forget everything
except your thought. Good reason why, your thought is so interesting, all the more so because
it is your view, not mine, and because I do not agree with you. Have I made sufficient apology?"

"You have done much more, Mr. Clancy, you have paid me the only kind of a compliment that I
enjoy. I am sick of conventionalities, and as for ordinary compliments, I am as satiated as
one would be if the entire contents of Huyler's candy-shop had been sent to him."

"Oh, I knew that much before I had seen you five minutes. The only question in my mind was
whether you had not been made ill mentally by them as one would be physically by the candy."

"In other words, whether I was a fool or not."

"Precisely."

"Well?"

"No need of that rising inflection. If you were a fool I would not be here."

"I reckon not, as you say in the South."

"Yet you value your beauty, Miss Ainsley."

"Indeed I do, very highly."

"And you know equally well that I admire it greatly, but I value your power of companionship
more. Why should not a man and woman entertain each other without compliments, conventionalities
and sentimentalities?"

"No reason in the world if they are capable of such companionship. The trouble with so many
is that they tumble into these things, especially the last, as if they were blind ditches in
their path."

"That is excellent. Do you regard love as a blind ditch?"

"The deepest and worst of them all, judging from the experiences of very many."

"I am inclined to agree with you," he answered very quietly.

A few moments later he rose to take his leave. She gave him her hand without rising, and said,
"Good-night. I'm not going to leave this lovely scene till I am sleepy. Come again when you
want companionship. Drop conventionality I would like a friend who would talk to me as men
of brains talk to men of brains, without circumlocution."

"Very well, then, I shall begin at once. You have a head that ought to inspire an artist, but
I like its furniture. I am going to read up on our point of disagreement. If I actually prove
you are wrong you must yield like a man."

"I will."

The smile on her lips still lingered as she looked out upon the moonlit waters, and she passed
into a delicious revery. At last she murmured, "Yes, he has a chance. I don't know how it will
end. I may yield to his argument, but as to yielding to him, that is another affair. The best
part of it all is that he is so slow in yielding to me. Here, in this out-of-the-way corner
of the world, is a cup that I can at least drain slowly."

Clancy sauntered up Meeting Street, his thoughts preoccupied with the interview. Then half
a block in advance two persons entered the thoroughfare, and he recognized Captain Bodine and
Mara. He crossed the street so as not to meet them, and they passed in low, earnest conversation.
If Miss Ainsley had been in the furthest star, he would not have cared. Every drop of his Southern
blood was fired, and, with clinched hands, he strode homeward, and passed a sleepless night.

CHAPTER XIX

A CHIVALROUS IMPULSE

It must be admitted that Clancy had some cause for his perturbation. Captain Bodine was a middle-aged
man, who had had deep, if not wide experiences. He had come to regard himself as saddened and
way-worn, halting slowly down the westward slope of life, away from the exaltations of vanished
joys, and the almost despairing grief of former sorrows.

Memory kept both in sharp outline; nevertheless they were receding, as do hills and mountains
which the traveller leaves behind him. The veteran had believed that he had no future besides
earning an honest living, and providing for his beloved child.

The traveller--to employ again the figure--often journeys forward in what promises to be a
monotonous road. He is not expecting anything, nor is he looking forward to any material change.
Unawares he surmounts a little eminence, and there opens a vista which kindles his dull eyes
with its beauty, and stirs his heavy heart with the suggestion that he has not passed by and
beyond all the best things of life.

Mara's glance of profound and intelligent sympathy had opened such a vista to Bodine's mental
vision. It had been enough then; it had been enough since, in the main, that she was the daughter
of his old and dearest friend, and that their thoughts, beliefs and sorrows were in such complete
accord. Mara had become his daughter's closest friend, as well as co-laborer, and so he heard
of her daily, and saw her very often. All that he saw and heard confirmed and deepened his
first impressions. A companionship, wonderfully sweet and cheering, was growing between them.
He had not yet begun to analyze this, or to recognize whither it was tending, while not a shadow
of suspicion crossed her mind. She only felt that she had found a friend who diverted her thoughts,
solaced all her trouble, and made the past, to which she believed she belonged, more real,
more full of precious memories. The days in the main were passing quietly and evenly for both,
full of work and deeply interesting thoughts, and the delightful reunions around the chair
of the genial invalid, Mrs. Bodine, increased in number.

The old lady talked and acted as if she had emerged into the warmest sunshine of prosperity,
and only Ella could surpass her in blitheness of spirit and comical speeches. They caricatured
each other, every one, everything, yet without a particle of malice. Even poor old Mrs. Hunter
sometimes had to relax her grim rigidity, and Bodine often laughed with the hearty ring of
his old campaigning days. At times Mara was beguiled into the belief that she was happy, that
her deep wound was healing. The illusion would last for days together; then something unexpected
would occur, and the love of her heart would reveal itself in bitter out-cry against its wrong.
If she could only see Clancy in some light which her veritable God-bestowed conscience could
condemn, she believed that her struggle would be much easier; but he always confronted her
with his earnest, steady eyes, which said, "I have as true a right to think as I do, as you
have to think differently. Not even for your sake will I be false." Thus after days of comparative
peace, the tempest would again rage in her soul.

Buoyant, happy Ella felt now as if she could trip on through life indefinitely; but one summer
morning she tripped into a little adventure which brought unwonted expressions of perplexity
into her fair face. She was returning along the shady side of the street from her duties, her
face like a blush-rose from the heat, when she observed coming toward her a young man who,
from his garb and bearing, caught her eyes. Pretty Ella knew she attracted a great deal of
attention from the opposite sex when she appeared in the street, and she was not such a demure
little saint as to let a fine, manly figure pass without her observation, but her observance
was quick, furtive, like the motion of a bird's eye that looks you over before you are aware
of the bird's presence. No staring fellow ever met her blue eyes in the street. On the present
occasion the little maiden said to herself, "There's a style of a man I haven't seen, and he's
evidently a Northerner, too. Well, he's not bad; indeed he is the best-looking Vandal, as Mrs.
Hunter would say--Oh, merciful Heaven! that old woman will be run over."

Her commentary had been interrupted by an express wagon driven recklessly around the corner.
Picking her way slowly across the street was a plain, respectable looking old woman, with a
basket of parcels on her arm, and, at the moment of Ella's cry, she was almost under the horse's
feet, paralyzed with terror. Her cry caught the young man's attention. With a single bound,
he was in the street, his right hand and arm forcing the horse back on its haunches, while
with his left he gathered up the old woman. Then by a powerful effort he threw the horse's
head and forequarters away from him with such force that the shafts cracked. Bearing the woman
to the sidewalk, he placed her upon her feet, then went back, picked up her parcels and placed
them in her basket. Without waiting to hear her thanks, he lifted his hat and was turning away
as if all had been a trifle, when he was confronted by the enraged expressman pouring forth
volleys of vituperation. With a chivalric impulse the girl drew nearer the stranger, who looked
the bully steadily in the eyes while he kept his hands in his pockets. The man made a gesture
as if to strike. Instantly the young fellow's left arm was up in the most scientific attitude
of self-defence. "Don't do that, you fool," he said. "Are you too drunk not to see that I'm
strong? Clear out, or I'll have you arrested. If you touch me, I'll knock you under the feet
of your horse."

There was something in the athlete's bearing, and the way he put up his left arm, which brought
the expressman to his senses, and he drew off swearing about the blanked "Northerners, who
acted as if they owned the city."

George Houghton--for we may as well give his name at once--regarded the fellow contemptuously
an instant, and again turned to pursue his way regardless of the gathering crowd. But his attention
was at once arrested by a pair of blue eyes which were so eloquent with admiration and approval,
that he smiled and again lifted his hat.

"You are a gentleman," Ella breathed softly, the words coming with scarcely any volition on
her part.

A frown instantly darkened Houghton's face, and, with a slight, stiff acknowledgment, he strode
away. "Why the deuce shouldn't I be a gentleman!" he muttered. "The very young girls of this
town are taught to look upon Northerners as boors. One has only to save an old woman from being
run over, face a blackguard, and the wondering expression is wrung from one of the blue-blooded
scions, 'You're a gentleman!' And she was blue-blooded. A fellow with half an eye and in half
a minute could see that. And I suppose she thought that one of my ilk was no more capable of
such a deed than Toots or Uriah Heep. Bah!"

Having thus relieved his mind, young Houghton's step soon grew slower and slower. It was evident
that a new and different train of thought had begun in his mind. At last, with characteristic
force, he communed with himself:

"Thin-skinned fool! why didn't I look at the girl instead of thinking of my blasted self and
pride! Why, that girl's face will haunt me for many a day, whether I ever see her again or
not. I'm as bad as these Bourbons themselves in my prejudice. Now I think of it she stood almost
alone at my side when others were keeping at a safer distance, fearing a fight. Her look was
one of simple, ingenuous approval--almost the expression of a child, and I acted like a brute.
That's the Old Harry with me, I act first and think afterward."

A few minutes later he was at the office, and writing rapidly at his father's dictation. After
a time Mr. Houghton said, "Take these two letters to Bodine's desk, and tell him to make copies.
Then you can go, George. Your vacation is too new for me to take so much of your time."

"See here, father," replied the young man, putting his hand on the old gentleman's shoulder.
"You've been here all these years working like thunder to make money, and I've been spending
it like thunder. If you're going to keep on working, I'm going to work with you; if you'll
knock off and go on a lark with me, I'll guarantee that you'll be ten years younger before fall."

The old man's face softened wonderfully. Indeed one could scarcely imagine it was capable of
such an expression.

"Ah, George! you don't, you can't know," he said, "yet my heart is not so dead but that I feel
and recognize the spirit in which you speak. My place is here, right here, and I should not
be contented anywhere else. But you are just from your studies. You didn't dazzle the faculty
by your performances. Perhaps they would say you were a little too much given to boating and
that sort of thing. But I am satisfied that you have come home a man, and not a blue-spectacled
milk-sop. Help me out a little, and then go off on your lark yourself and recuperate."

"Recuperate!" and the young fellow made the office ring with his laugh. "Feel of that muscle,
old gentleman. All the recuperation I need I can get a few hours before and after sundown.
I'll go now, however, for there's a spanking breeze on the bay, and I'd like to make a run
around Fort Sumter."

"George, George, be prudent. You know that your brother lies at the bottom of that accursed bay."

"There, father, there, he died doing his duty like a man, and you mustn't grieve for him so.
Good-by."

The old man looked wistfully after him a moment, then turned his mind, like a strong motor
power, to the complicated machinery that was coining wealth.

George went to Bodine, whom he had never seen before, and of whom he knew nothing, and began
in his half-boyish way: "Here, mine ancient, father wants--Beg your pardon. Didn't know that
you had lost a leg."

"What is it that Mr. Houghton wishes?" said the captain coldly, and turning upon the young
man a visage which impressed him instantly.

"I beg your pardon again," said George. "My father would like copies made of these letters;"
and he touched his hat as he turned away.

"Thunder!" he muttered as he left the counting-house. "I was told that I was a gentleman for
a little trumpery act in the street. That man tells you he is one by a single glance from his
sad, stern eyes. He is another of the blue-bloods, Southerner to the backbone. How is it that
he is in the old gentleman's employ, I wonder? I supposed father hated ex-Confederates as the
Devil does holy water. Bodine, Bodine. I must find out who he is, for he evidently has a history."

He soon forgot all about Bodine in the pleasure of skilfully sailing his boat close to the wind.

Ella had pursued her way homeward with bowed head and a confused sense of shame and resentment.
"Suppose I did speak to him, a stranger," she murmured, "was he so dull, or so cold and utterly
conventional as to make no allowance for the circumstances? No matter, I've had a lesson that
I shall never forget. Hereafter he and his kind may save all the old women in Charleston, and
fight all the bullies, and I won't even look at them. If he had had the brains and blood of
a frog even, he would have understood me. And he did seem to understand at first, for he smiled
pleasantly and lifted his hat. Does he consider it an insult to be told he is a gentleman?
Perhaps he thought this fact should be too apparent to be mentioned, or else he thought it
bold and unmaidenly to open my lips at all. A plague on him for not being able to see the simple
truth. No Southerner would have been so stupid, or ready to think evil."

Thus she communed with herself till she reached her own room. After a little thought, she decided
not to speak of the adventure. She had an unusual share of common-sense, and knew that the
affair would only give pain to her father and cousin, and that its relation would serve no
earthly good to any one.

CHAPTER XX

THE STRANGER EXPLAINS

There are those who touch our life closely, and become essentially a part of it; there are
many more who are but casual and passing acquaintances, and yet these very people often unconsciously
become the most important factors in our destiny. Ella Bodine was soon to prove this truth.
It will of course be understood that her life was not so secluded and restricted that she practically
had no acquaintances beyond the characters of our story. Sensible Mrs. Bodine had no intention
that her pretty cousin should be hidden behind the prejudices so powerful in those with whom
she was immediately associated.

"Cousin Hugh," she said, one day soon after Ella's encounter with Houghton, "how was it with
you when you were a young fellow? how was it with me when I was a girl? Do you suppose your
daughter is made of different flesh and blood? She is so unselfish in nature and sunny in temperament
that you will never learn from her that she has longings for society of her own age. We have
no right to keep her among our shadows. We belong to the past; she has a future, and should
have the chance which is the right of every young girl. You must not judge her by Mara, who
stands by herself, and is not a representative of any ordinary type. She is as old as you are,
and a great deal older than I am. She has grown up among shadows and loves them. Ella loves
the sunshine, and should have all of it that we can give her. Now, you must let her go out
more. I will choose her chaperons, and I reckon I know whom to choose. If I do say it, I would
like you to mention any one in Charleston more competent. I know about the fathers and mothers,
the grandfathers and grandmothers, and the remote ancestors of every one in Charleston who
is any one."

"Cousin Sophy, I believe you are right. I have permitted Ella to be too devoted to me, but
we have lived such a precarious life of late--indeed it has been the vital question how we
were to live at all. We are now very differently situated. Yes, you are right. Ella should
see something of society, and enjoy some of its pleasures, and, as you say, should have her
chance." At these final words he sighed deeply.

"I know what that sigh means," resumed the old lady. "You would wish to keep Ella to yourself
always--the natural impulse of a father's heart. Yet if you allow this impulse to control you,
it will become selfishness of the worst kind. I say again that every girl should have her chance
to see and be seen, and to make the most and best of her life according to woman's natural
destiny. You may trust me, as I have said, to choose those who shall have the care of Ella
when she goes out. She has an invitation to a little company at Mrs. Willoughby's, and a most
discreet friend has offered to chaperon her. We'll fix her out so that she will appear as well
as any one, and you know our claims don't rest on expensiveness of dress. Mrs. Willoughby comes
of one of the oldest and best families in the State. I know she is liberal, and affiliates
with Northern people more than I could wish, but they are all said to be of the best class--and
I suppose there is a best class among 'em. Good Lor', Hugh! we may feel and think as we please,
and can never change, but we can't keep back the rising tide. If there are a few Northern people
present Ella won't be contaminated any more than you are by working among Northern people.
We have our strong prejudices--that's what they are called--but we must not let them make us
ridiculous. Mrs. Willoughby says she's emancipated, and that she'd have whom she pleased in
her parlors. She has been abroad so much, you know. Well, well, we'll consider it settled."
And so it was.

When Ella was informed of her cousin's plan in her behalf she was half wild with delight. "I
may consider myself a debutante," she said. "Oh, Cousin Sophy! how shall I behave?"

"Behave just as a bird flies," said the wise old lady. "If you put on any airs, if you are
not your own natural self, I'll shake you when you come home."

The captain saw his child's pleasure, and felt anew the truth of his cousin's words. Ella should
be immured no longer. Mara had been invited also, but declined, preferring to spend the evening
with Mrs. Bodine.

Mrs. Willoughby's company was not large, and had been selected from various motives. We need
mention but one that had influenced her. Miss Ainsley had requested that George Houghton should
be invited. Her father and Mr. Houghton had large business interests in common, and at Mr.
Ainsley's request the young man had called upon his daughter. She was pleased with him, although
she felt herself to be immeasurably older than he. Mrs. Willoughby had also been favorably
impressed by his fine appearance and slightly brusque manner.

"Yes," said the astute Miss Ainsley, as they were talking him over after his departure, "he's
a big, handsome, finely educated boy, who would walk through your Southern conventionalities
as if they were cobwebs, had he a chance."

"Delightful!" cried Mrs. Willoughby. "If I can keep my drawing-room free from insipidity, I
am content. As to his walking through our conventionalities, as you term them, let him try
it. If he doesn't butt his head against some rather solid walls, I'm mistaken. You don't half
know what a bold thing I am doing when I invite old Houghton's son; but then it is just this
kind of social temerity that enchants me, and he shall come. I only hope that some good people
won't rise up and shake off the dust of their feet."

"Don't worry; you're a privileged character. Mr. Clancy has told me all about it. He admires
you immensely because you are so untrammelled."

"He admires you a hundred-fold more. What are you going to do with him?"

"I don't know. I couldn't do anything with him yet. That's his charm. If I didn't know better,
I should say he was the coldest--he is not cold at all. The woman who reaches his heart will
find a lot of molten lava. I'm often inclined to think it has been reached by some one else,
and that his remarkable poise results from a nature fore-armed, or else chilled by a former
experience. At any rate, there is a fire smouldering in his nature, and when it breaks out
it won't be of the smoky, lurid sort that has so often made me ill. There will be light and
heat in plenty."

"Well, you're an odd girl, Caroline. You experiment with men's hearts like an old alchemist,
who puts all sorts of substances into his crucible in the hope of finding something that will
enrich him."

"And probably, like the old alchemist, I shall never find anything except what, to me, is dross."

Under Mrs. Robertson's wing Ella appeared, and met with a very kindly reception. She had not
Miss Ainsley's admirable ease, but she possessed something far better. There was a sweet girlish
bloom in addition to her innately refined manner and ingenuous loveliness of face, which made
even the experienced belle sigh that she had passed by that phase forever. Yet shrewd Ella's
eyes were as busy as they were intelligent. She wondered at Miss Ainsley with mingled admiration
and distrust, but she had received a sufficient number of hints from Mrs. Bodine to understand
her hostess quite well. She saw Clancy enter, and Miss Ainsley's welcome, and quickly observed
that there was a sort of free-masonry between them. Then some one appeared who almost took
away her breath. It was the stranger to whom she had spoken so unexpectedly, even to herself.
She saw that Mr. Clancy, Miss Ainsley, and Mrs. Willoughby greeted him cordially, but that
many others appeared surprised and displeased. Little time was given to note more, for the
stranger's eyes fell upon her. He instantly turned to his hostess, and evidently asked for
an introduction. With a slight sparkle of mischief in her eyes, Mrs. Willoughby complied, and
Ella saw the stranger coming toward her as straight and prompt as if he meant to carry her
off bodily. He seemed to ignore every one and everything else in the room, but she was too
high-spirited to fall into a panic, or even to be confused. Indeed she found herself growing
angry, and was resolving to give him a lesson, when his name was mentioned. Then she was startled,
and for an instant confused. This was no other than the son of "that old--Mr. Houghton," as
Mrs. Bodine always mentioned him, with a little cough of self-recovery as if she had been on
the perilous edge of saying something very unconventional. His father was her father's employer,
and the instinctive desire to save her father from trouble led to hesitation in her plan of
rebuke and retaliation. Her petty resentment should not lead to any unpleasant complications,
and she therefore merely bowed civilly.

Houghton repeated her name as if a victim of momentary surprise himself, and then said with
his direct gaze, "I wish to ask ten thousand pardons."

"That is a great many. I shall have to think about granting one."

"If I were you I wouldn't do it," was his next rather brusque remark.

"That is your advice, then?"

"No, indeed. I'm not my own worst enemy. Miss Bodine, circumlocution is not my forte. I had
not walked a block away from you the other day before I charged myself with being a fool and
a brute. It took just that long for me to get it into my thick head what your manner and words
meant, and I've been in a rage with myself ever since."

"Well," she asked, looking down demurely, "what did they mean?"

"They meant you were a brave girl--that from a chivalric impulse you had drawn near when even
men stood a little aloof, as if fearing that if the affair came to blows, they might get a
chance one themselves. Your face had the frank expression of a child--how often in fancy I've
seen it since!--the words came from your lips almost as a child would speak them. Now that
I see you again I know how true my second thoughts were of you and of myself. I deserve a whipping
instead of your pardon."

There was a point yet to be cleared up in Ella's mind, and she remarked coldly, "I do not see
how you could have had any other thoughts than what you term your second thoughts."

"Nor do I, now; and I suppose you can have no mercy on a poor fellow who is often hasty and
wrong-headed. I will make a clean breast of it. I was charmed with your expression when first
aware of your presence, but when you spoke you touched a sore spot. Miss Bodine, you would
not be ostracized at the North. You would be treated with the courtesy and cordiality to which
every one would see you to be entitled. Practically I am ostracized here by the class to which
you belong. When you spoke I stalked away like a sulky boy, muttering, 'Why shouldn't I be
a gentleman?' Even the girls in this town are taught to look upon Northerners as boors. I had
only to pick up an old woman, and face a bully, when, as if in utter surprise that one of my
ilk should be so grandly heroic, I heard the words, 'You are a gentleman.' You see it was my
wretched egotism that got me into the scrape. When I thought of you, not myself, I saw the
truth at once, and felt like going back to the expressman and meekly asking him to give me
a drubbing."

All was clear to Ella now. Indeed there was a frankness and sincerity about Houghton which
left no suspicion of dark corners and mental reservations. As his explanation proceeded she
began to laugh. "Well," she remarked, "I had my first thoughts too. I said to myself, as I
pursued my way homeward, with burning cheeks, that you or any one else might save all the old
women in town, and fight all the bullies, and that I would pass on my way without looking to
the right or left."

"Pardon me, Miss Bodine, you are mistaken. Your generous spirit would get the better of you
again in two seconds. Heaven grant, however, that next time you may have a gentleman as your
ally. For a few moments I ceased to be one, and became an egotistical fool."

"You are too hard upon yourself. Since you interpret me so kindly it would ill become me to--"

"Ella, my dear," said her chaperon, "let me present to you Mr. Vandeveer."

Houghton gave her a bright, grateful glance, rose instantly, and bowed himself away.

Mrs. Robertson had been on pins and needles over this prolonged conference. There was something
so resolute about Houghton's manner, and he had placed his chair so adroitly to bar approach
to Ella, that the good lady was in sore straits. Mrs. Willoughby saw her perplexity, and felt
not a little mischievous pleasure over it. She disappeared that she might not be called upon
to interfere. At last in desperation Mrs. Robertson laid hold on Mr. Vandeveer, and ended the
ominous interview.

Ella gave rather lame attention to her new companion's commonplaces; then others were introduced,
and the evening was drifting away in the ordinary fashion. She soon began to talk well in her
own bright way, and had all the attention a young debutante could desire, but she was always
conscious of Houghton's presence, and also aware that he was quietly observant of her. She
saw that he met with very little cordiality, and that from but a few. Womanlike, she began
to take his part in her thoughts, and to feel the injustice shown him. She had an innate sense
of fair play, and she resented the manoeuvring of her chaperon to keep him away from her. Yet
she soon found herself enjoying abundantly the conversation of such young men as met with Mrs.
Robertson's approval. This truth was apparent to that lady's satisfaction, but the independent
young woman was not long in resolving that if she went into society she would not go as a child
in leading-strings, and she determined that she would speak to Houghton again before the evening
was over, if the opportunity offered. He had at last disappeared, but she soon discovered that
he was on the balcony with Clancy and Miss Ainsley. Strolling past them with her escort, she
heard enough of their bright, merry talk to wish that she had a part in it. It was her nature,
however, to avoid him until she could speak under the eye of her chaperon, and she again entered
the lighted drawing-room.

Houghton, meanwhile, had been doing some thinking himself. The girl, whose blue eyes had looked
at him so approvingly in the street, was taking a stronger hold on his fancy every moment.
The relaxation of her cold aspect into mirthfulness, and an approach to kindness had enchanted
him; while her ardent, honest, fearless nature appealed to him powerfully. "She strikes me
as a woman who would stand by a fellow through thick and thin as long as he was right," he
thought, "and if my judgment is correct the whole ex-Confederate army shan't keep me from getting
acquainted with her. Ah! how I liked that severe look in her eyes till she knew what my first
thoughts were! She has blue blood of the right sort, and I'm sorely mistaken if it doesn't
feed a brain that can think for itself."

He also returned to the drawing-room, and was vigilant for an opportunity. It soon occurred.
Ella and her attendant were chatting with Mrs. Willoughby a little apart from the others. Houghton
joined them instantly, and was encouraged when both the ladies greeted him with a smile. The
attendant gentleman soon withdrew, the hostess remained a few moments longer, and then Houghton
and Ella were alone.

"You may have observed," he said, "the penalty I pay for being a Northerner."

"Yes," she replied, "and I don't think it's fair."

"Miss Bodine, do you dare think for yourself?"

"I scarcely know how I can help doing so."

"That is just what I was thinking out on the balcony."

"I thought you were charmed by that beautiful Miss Ainsley."

"She has no eyes except for Clancy, and a fine fellow he is too--too good for her, I imagine.
I can't make her out."

"Neither can I."

"Oh, bother her! I don't like feminine riddles. Miss Bodine, there's a gentleman in my father's
employ bearing your name. Is he a relative?"

"He is my father," she replied proudly.

"I should guess as much if your eyes were not so blue."

"I have my mother's eyes, I am told."

"Well, on that same day--you know--he told me that he was a gentleman: can you guess how?"

"I would rather you should tell me."

"I was sent to him by my father with a message, and I spoke rudely to him at first; not intentionally,
but as a harum-scarum young fellow might speak to an elderly man under ordinary circumstances,
I meaning nothing more than friendly familiarity. I fear you won't understand, but with you
I can't help downright honesty."

"Yes, I understand. He was one of your father's clerks, and you cared little what you said to him."

"Scarcely right, Miss Bodine. With all my faults--and they are legion--I'm good-natured, and
do not intentionally hurt people's feelings. What a fine proof of that I gave you in my insufferable
stupidity!"

"That's been explained and is past. Please don't refer to it any more."

"Heaven knows I wish to forget it. Well, your father turned to me from his writing. One look
was enough. I begged his pardon twice on the spot. That is the way he told me he was a gentleman.
It had been so born and bred into him that, unless a fellow was an idiot, one glance told the
story."

Her face softened wonderfully as he spoke, and her eyes grew lustrous with feeling, as she said:

"You are not an idiot, Mr. Houghton. I am glad you so quickly appreciated my father. He is
more than a gentleman, he is a hero, and I idolize him."

"I should fancy it was a mutual idolatry," and his eyes expressed an admiration of which the
dullest girl would have been conscious, and Ella was not dull at all. "I wish we could become
acquainted," he added abruptly, and with such hearty emphasis that her color deepened.

Before she could reply, her chaperon managed to separate them again, and she saw him no more
until, rather early in the evening, she was bidding her hostess goodnight. Then she encountered
such an eager, questioning, friendly look, that she smiled involuntarily, and slightly bowed
as she turned away. Mrs. Robertson was so preoccupied at the moment that she did not witness
this brief, subtile exchange of--what? Ella did not know, herself, but her heart was wonderfully
light, and there was a delicious sense of exhilaration in all her veins.

As they were driving home, Mrs. Robertson began sententiously, "Ella, in the main you behaved
admirably. I don't suppose anything better could be expected of one so unversed in society,
especially Charleston society. You were natural and refined in your deportment, and bore yourself
as became your ancestry. You will soon learn to make discriminations. I had no idea that young
Houghton would be present, or I would have told you about him and his father. Mrs. Willoughby
is carrying things too far, even if many of our people have consented to wink at much that
we disapprove of. Houghton represents the most detested Northern element among us. Of course
you, in your inexperience, felt that you must be polite to every man introduced to you, and
he talked with the volubility of which only a Yankee is capable. It is scarcely possible that
you will meet him anywhere except at Mrs. Willoughby's, and if you go there any more you must
learn the art of shaking off an objectionable person speedily. Your meeting Houghton to-night
was purely accidental, and I reckon that after you have been out a few times you will learn
to choose your associates from those only of whom your father and cousin would approve. Perhaps
therefore you had better not say anything about your meeting Houghton, unless you feel that
you ought. No harm has been done, and it would only displease your father, and render him adverse
to your going out hereafter."

The good lady was a little worried by the fear that her reputation as a chaperon would be damaged,
and, sincerely believing that "no harm had been done," and that her homily would remove all
danger from the future, she counselled as she thought wisely. Her heart was full of goodwill
toward the girl, and she was desirous that nothing should prevent her from enjoying society
in her interpretation of the word.

Ella thanked her warmly for her kindness and advice, but she was in deep perplexity, for she
had never concealed anything from her father before. Her lightness of heart was already gone,
and there were tears in her eyes before she slept.

CHAPTER XXI

UNCLE SHEBA SAT UPON

Old Tobe, keeper of the "rasteran," may have been right in saying that Uncle Sheba had backslidden
as far as he could slide, remembering the limitations of a life like his, but circumstances
had recently occurred which brought his church relations to a crisis. Tobe was the opposite
pole in character to Uncle Sheba. There was an energy about the old caterer which defied age
and summer heat. Even his white wool always seemed bristling aggressively and controversially.
His fiery spirit influenced his commonest acts. When he boiled potatoes his customers were
wont to say "he made 'em bile like de debil."

He carried his energy into his religion, one of his favorite exhortations in the prayer-meeting
being, "Ef you sinners wants to'scape you'se got to git up an' git." During the preaching service
he took a high seat in the synagogue, and if any one in the range of his vision appeared drowsy
he would turn round and glare till the offender roused into consciousness. The children and
young people stood in awe of him, and there was a perfect oasis of good behavior surrounding
his pew. Once some irreverent young men thought it would be a joke to pretend to "conviction
ob sin," and to seek religious counsel of old Tobe, but they came away scared half out of their
wits, one of them declaring that he smelt brimstone a week afterward. The Rev. Mr. Birdsall
felt that he had a strong ally in Tobe, but he often sighed over the old man's want of discretion.

Uncle Sheba was Tobe's bete noir, and he often inwardly raged over "dat lazy niggah." "De time
am comin' w'en dat backslider got to be sot on," he would mutter, and this seemed his one consolation.
He could scarcely possess his soul in patience in the hope of this day of retribution; "but
I kin hole in till it come, fer it's gwine to come shuah," he occasionally said to some congenial
spirits.

Tobe had a very respectable following in the church both as to numbers and character, for many
looked upon his zeal as heaven-inspired. At last there came a hot Sunday afternoon which brought
his hour and opportunity. Mr. Birdsall was not only expounding, but also pounding the pulpit
cushion in order to waken some attention in his audience. Old Tobe had been whirling from one
side to the other, and glaring hither and thither, till in desperation he got up and began
to nudge and pinch the delinquents. From one of the back pews, however, there soon arose a
sound which so increased as to drown even Mr. Birdsall's stentorian voice. Tobe tiptoed to
the spot, and, in wrath that he deemed righteous, blended with not a little exultation, looked
upon Uncle Sheba. His head had fallen on his bosom, and from his nose were proceeding sounds
which would put to shame a high-pressure engine. Aun' Sheba was shaking him on one side and
Kern Watson on the other. Audible snickering was general, but this soon gave way to alarm as
Aun' Sheba exclaimed aloud, "He's dun gwine an' got de popoplexy shuah."

"Carry him out," said old Tobe, in a whisper which might have been heard in the street.

Two or three men sprang forward to aid, but Kern sternly motioned them back, and, lifting Uncle
Sheba's portly form as if it were a child, carried the unconscious man to the vestibule. Scores
were about to follow, but Tobe, with his wool bristling as never seen before, held up his hand
impressively, and in the same loud whisper heard by all, remarked, "It doan took de hull cong'ration
to wait on one po' sinner. Sabe yo'selves, brud'ren an' sisters. Sabe yo'selves, fer de time
am a comin' w'en you'se all will be toted out dis yere temple ob de Lawd foot fo'most."

With this grewsome recollection forced upon their attention the people sat down again, wide
awake at last. Tobe beckoned to three or four elderly men whom he knew he could rely upon,
and they gathered around Uncle Sheba. His wife was slapping him on the back and chafing his
hands, while Kern was splashing water in his face. The unfortunate man began to sneeze, and
manifest rather convulsive signs of recovery. At last he blurted out, "Dar now, dar now, Aun'
Sheba, doan go on so. I'se gwine to bring in de kinlins right smart"

"Bress de Lawd!" exclaimed Aun' Sheba, "dat soun' nat'rel. No popoplexy in dat ar kin' ob talk."

Tobe and his allies exchanged significant glances. Uncle Sheba was brought to his senses sufficiently
to be supported home by his wife and son-in-law. He soon became aware that he had committed
an awful indiscretion, for Watson looked stern, and there was a portentous solemnity in Aun'
Sheba's expression. He began to enter on excuses. "I was jis' come ober by de heat," he said.
"'Tween de heat an' de po'ful sarmon, I was jis' dat 'pressed dat de sperit went out ob me."

"Mr. Buggone," replied his wife, severely, "it was wat went inter you, an' not wat wen' out
ob you, dat made de trouble. You jes' gormidized at dinnah. I'se gwine to cut off you'se 'lowance
one-half."

At this dire threat Uncle Sheba groaned aloud, feeling that his sin had overtaken him swiftly
indeed. His supper was meagre, and to his plaintive remarks Aun' Sheba made no reply, but maintained
an ominous silence until sleep again brought the relief of oblivion.

After Uncle Sheba's departure, Tobe and the other pillars of the church held a whispered conference
in the vestibule, and soon agreed up their course. When the services were over, they, with
other sympathizers, waited upon the minister. Mr. Birdsall was hot, tired, and incensed himself,
and so was in a mood to listen to their representations.

"Hit's time dis yere scan'el was r'moved," said Tobe, solemnly. "We mus'purge ourselves. Mr.
Buggone should be sot on, an' 'spended at de berry leas'; an' ter make de right 'pression on
oders dat's gettin' weak in dere speritool jints, I move we sot on Mr. Buggone's case to-morrer
ebenin'."

Mr. Birdsall was made to feel that it was his duty to accede, but he already felt sorry for
Aun' Sheba and the Watsons, and had misgivings as to the result.

"Well," said he at last, "I'll agree to a prelim'nary conf'rence to-morrow evenin' at Mr. Buggone's
house. Brud-'ren, we must proceed in de spirit ob lub an' charity, an' do our best to pluck
a bran' from de burnin'."

In the morning he went around to prepare Aun' Sheba for the ordeal, but she and Vilet had gone
out upon their mercantile pursuits, and Uncle Sheba also had disappeared. To Sissy the direful
intelligence was communicated. In spite of all Mr. Birdsall's efforts to console, she was left
sobbing and rocking back and forth in her chair. When Kern came home, he heard the news with
a rigid face.

"Well," he said, "ef it's right, it's right. Ef I'd done wrong I'd stan' up an' face wot come
ob it."

Uncle Sheba knew when his wife would return, and was ready to receive her in the meekest of
moods. He had cut an unusual quantity of wood and kindlings, but they failed to propitiate.
Sissy soon called her mother to come over to her cabin to hear of Mr. Birdsall's visit, and
all that it portended. Aun' Sheba listened in silence, and sat for a long time in deep thought,
while Sissy and Vilet sobbed quietly. At last the old woman said firmly, "Sissy, I wants you
and Kern ter be on han'. Vilet kin take keer ob do chillun. Dis am gwine ter be a solemn 'casion,
an' de Lawd on'y knows wot's gwine ter come out ob it. Anyhow dis fam'ly mus' stan' by one
noder. My mind ain't clar jes yit, but'll git clar wen de'mergency comes; I jes' feel it in
my bones it'll git clar den."

There was such an awful solemnity in her aspect when she returned, that Uncle Sheba was actually
scared. It seemed to him that her manner could not be more depressing if she were making preparations
for his funeral. His trepidation was increased when he was told briefly and sternly to put
on his "Sunday-go-to-meetin's."

"Wotfer, Aun' Sheba?"

"You'se know soon 'nuff. De Elder's gwine to call on you dis ebenin'. Ef you'd had de popoplexy
in arnest, we'd make great 'lowance fer you, but wen you eat an' drink till you mos' ready
to bust, and den'sturb de hull meetin' by snortin' like a 'potamus, dar's got to be trouble,
an' I'se got to meet it."

Uncle Sheba did as he was directed, with the feeling that the judgment day had come.

Meanwhile old Tobe had prepared his indictment, and marshalled his forces for the occasion.
At seven in the evening he led them to the nearest corner, and waited for Mr. Birdsall, who
soon appeared. Led by him, they entered Aun' Sheba's living-room in solemn procession. Although
the evening was warm, there was a fire on the hearth, for she had said, "Dere's gwine ter be
notin' wantin' to de 'casion." All the chairs had been brought in from Watson's cabin, and
he and Sissy sat in the background. Uncle Sheba had been placed on the further side of the
hearth, and was fairly trembling with apprehension. He tried to assume a pious, penitent air,
but failed miserably. Aun' Sheba made an imposing spectacle.

She had arrayed herself in her Sunday gown and had wound a flaming turban about her head. Apparently
she was the most collected person present, except Kern Watson who sat back in shadow, his face
quiet and stern. As the minister and committee entered she rose with dignity and said, "Elder
an' brud'ren, take cheers."

Then she sat down again, folded her hands and gazed intently at the ceiling.

If old Tobe was not cool, as indeed he never was, he was undaunted, and only waited for the
minister to prepare the way before he opened on Uncle Sheba. A few moments of oppressive silence
occurred, daring which the culprit shook as if he had an ague, but Aun' Sheba did not even
wink. Mr. Birdsall, regarding her portentous aspect with increased misgiving, began at last
in a mournful voice, "Mis Buggone, dis is a very sorrowful 'casion. We are here not as you'se
enemies but as you'se fren's. Our duty is painful, 'stremely so, but de brud'ren feel dat de
time is come wen Mr. Buggone mus' be made to see de error ob his ways, dat dere mus' be no
mo' precrastination. De honah ob de church is japerdized. Neber-de-less he is a free-agent.
De lamp still holes out to burn--"

"An' de wilest sinner can return," interrupted Aun' Sheba, nodding her head repeatedly. "I
unerstan'. You means well, Elder."

Old Tobe could hold in no longer, and began excitedly, "De question am weder de wile sinner's
gwine ter return, or wants ter return, or's got any return in 'im. Elder, I feels fer Mis Buggone
an' her family, but dis yere ting's gwine on long anuff. We'se been forbearin' an' long-sufferin'
till dere's a scan'el in de church. I'se tried wid all my might 'er keep de people awake an'
listenin', and I'se gettin' dun beat out. Ef we wink at dis awful 'zample you mought as well
go to de grabeyard an' preach. It ud be mo' comfable fer you, kase dey'd hear jus' as well,
an' dey wouldn't 'sturbe de'scorse by snorin' de roof off. Now I ask de sense ob dis meetin'.
Wen a member backslide so he do notin' but eat an' sleep, oughtener he be sot on?"

There was audible approval from all of Tobe's followers, and he was encouraged to go on.

"Ef Mr. Buggone mus' sleep mos' ob de time let him sleep peac' ble in his own house, but de
Scripter say, 'Wake dem dat sleepest,' an' we say it's time Mr. Buggone woke up. Any cullud
pusson dat kin snore so po'ful as Mr. Buggone needn't say he weakly an' po'ly. Hafe de poah
he put in his snore ud lif' 'im right along in all good works, week days an' Sundays. But I'se
los' faith in 'im. He's been 'spostulated an' 'monstrated with, an' 'zorted so often dat he's
hardened an' his conscience zeered wid a hot iron. We'se jes' got to take sich sinners in han',
or de paster-lot won't hole de flock no mo'. I move we take steps to s'pend Mr. Buggone."

"Secon' dat motion," said one of his followers promptly.

"Mr. an' Mis Buggone, have you nothin' to say?" asked Mr. Birdsall sadly.

"Elder," began Uncle Sheba in his most plaintive tone, "you know de heat yistidy was po'ful--"

"Mr. Buggone," interrupted his wife severely, "dis ain't no 'casion fer beatin' round de bush
an' creepin troo knotholes. You knows de truf an' I knows de truf. No, Elder, we'se got not'in
ter say at jes' dis time."

"Den, Elder, you put de motion dat we take steps," said Tobe, promptly.

With evident reluctance Mr. Birdsall did so, and the affirmative was unanimously voted by the
committee.

"I wants ter be s'pended too," said Aun' Sheba, still gazing at the ceiling.

"Now, Mis Buggone, dere would be no right nor reason in dat," the minister protested.

"Elder, I doesn't say you-uns ain't all right, an' I does say you means well, but I'se de bes'
jedge of my inard speritool frame. Hit was neber jes' clar in my mind dat I was 'ligious, an'
now I know I ain't 'ligious, an' I wants ter be s'pended."

"But it is clar in my mind dat you are religious, dat you'se a good woman. Would to de good
Lawd dat de church was full ob Christians like you!"

"I'se spoke my min'," persisted Aun' Sheba, doggedly. "Ole Tobe shall hab his way an' de church
be purged."

"Elder," said Tobe, now quite carried away by zeal and exultation, "p'raps Mis Buggoue am de
bes' jedge. Ef she feel she ain't one ob de aninted ones--"

"Peace!" commanded Mr. Birdsall, "never with my consent shall any steps be taken to suspend
Mis Buggone. You forgits, Tobe, how easy it is to pull up de wheat wid de tares."

"Den I s'pend myself," said Aun' Sheba, "an' I is s'pended. Now I gwine ter 'fess de truf.
I gave Mr. Buggone an extra Sunday dinner yistidy. I was puff up wid pride kase business was
good, an' I bress de Lawd fer prosperin' me. Den like a fool I 'dulge myself and I 'dulge Mr.
Buggone. Ef he's ter be s'pended fer a snorin' sleep, I oughter be s'pended fer a dozin' sleep,
fer I was a-dozin'; an' I feels it in my bones dat we bofe oughter be s'pended, an' I is, no
matter wot you does wid Mr. Buggone. Now, Tobe, you hab had you'se say, an' I'se a-gwine to
hab mine. You'se got a heap ob zeal. You wouldn't lead de flock; you'd dribe 'em, you'd chase
'em, you'd worry de bery wool off ob dem. Whar you git you sperit fum? You ain't willin' ter
wait till de jedgment day; you'd hab a jedgment ebery day in de week. You'se like dem 'siples
dat was allers wantin' ter call down fiah from Heben. Look out you don't get scorched yo'self.
I can't be 'ligious long o' you, an' if you got 'ligion I habn't. Elder, you says de Lawd libed
yere on dis yarth. I ony wish I'd libed in dem days. I'd a cooked, an' washed, an' ironed,
an' baked fer Him an' all de 'siples. Den like anuff He'd say: 'Ole Aun' Sheba, you means well.
I won't be hard on you nor none of you'se folks when de jedgment day comes.' But so much happen
since dat ar time wen He was yere dat I kinder got mixed up. I reckon I jes' be s'pended, an'
let Him put de ole woman whar she belong wen de time comes."

There was pathos in her tones; her stoicism had passed away, and tears were streaming from
her eyes, while Sissy was sobbing audibly. The committee at first had been aghast at the result
of the meeting, and now their emotional natures were being excited also. Old Tobe was disconcerted,
and still more so when Aun' Sheba suddenly rallied, and, turning upon him, said with ominous
nods, "Wen dat day come, Old Tobe, you won't be de jedge."

Thus far Kern Watson had sat silent as a statue, but now his strong feelings and religious
instincts gained the mastery. Lifting up his powerful mellow voice he sang:

  "The people was a-gatherin' from far and neah;
  Some come fer fishes an' some ter heah;
  But He fed dem all, an' He look so kin'
  Dat dey followed, dey followed, an' none stay behin'

 "But one got loss, an' he wandered far,
  De night come dark, no moon, no star;
  De lions roared an' de storm rose high,
  An' de po' loss one lie down ter die.

 "Den come a voice, an' de win's went down,
  An' de lions grovel on de groun',
  An' de po' loss one am foun' an' sabed,
  For de Shepherd ebery danger brabed."

These words, as sung by Kern, routed old Tobe completely; he hung his head and had not a word
to say. The committee had beaten time with their feet, and began to clap their hands softly.
Then Mr. Birdsall, with kindly energy, exhorted Uncle Sheba, who groaned aloud and said "Amen"
as if in the depths of penitence. A long prayer followed which even moved old Tobe, for Aun'
Sheba had shaken his self-confidence terribly. The little company broke up with hand-shaking
all around, Tobe saying: "Sister Buggone, I bears no ill-will. I'se gwine ter look inter my
speritool frame, an' ef I cotch de debil playin' hob wid me he's gwine to be put out, hoof
an' horns."

Aun' Sheba wrung her son-in-law's hand, as she said: "You'se singin', Kern, kinder went to
de right spot. Neber-de-less I'se s'pended till I feels mo' shuah."

Sissy kissed her mother and father affectionately, and then the old couple were left alone.
Aun' Sheba gazed thoughtfully into the dying fire, but before long Uncle Sheba began to hitch
uneasily in his chair. Finally he mustered up courage to say: "Aun' Sheba, dis am been bery
po'ful 'casion, bery tryin' to my narbes an' feelin's. Yet I feels kinder good an' hopeful
in my inards. Ef I wasn't jes' so dun beat out I'd feel mo' good. P'raps now, 'siderin' all
I'se pass troo, you wouldn't min' gibin' me a bit ob dat cole ham an' hoe-cake--"

"Mr. Buggone," began Aun' Sheba sternly, then she suddenly paused, threw her apron over her
head and rocked back and forth.

"Dar now, Aun' Sheba, dar now, doan go on so. I was ony a sigestin' kase I feels po'ly, but
I kin stan' it."

"I'se no better dan old Tobe hisself," groaned Aun' Sheba. "All on us is hard on some one,
while a hopin' fer marcy ourselves. Ef you'se hebin is in de cubud, go in dar an' hep a sef."
And she rose and opened the door of the treasure-house.

"I'se jes' take a leetle bite, Aun' Sheba, jes a leetle comf'tin bite, kase I'se been so sot
on dat I feels bery weakly an' gone-like."

Uncle Sheba was soon comforted and sleeping, but Aun' Sheba still sat by the hearth until the
last glowing embers turned to ashes. "Yes," she muttered at last, "I'se s'pended till I feels
mo' shuah."

CHAPTER XXII

YOUNG HOUGHTON IS DISCUSSED

Sleep and buoyancy of temperament enabled Ella to see everything in a very different light
the following morning. "The idea of my taking what happened last night so seriously!" she said
aloud while making her toilet. "As Mrs. Robertson said, 'no harm has been done.' Of course
I shall tell papa and Cousin Sophy that I met and talked to Mr. Houghton. What if I did? He
was introduced to me just as the others were, and what do I care for him? He was a very agreeable
Vandal, and I'm glad to have had a chance to see what Vandals are like. As with other bugaboos
they lose their terrors under close inspection."

At breakfast, therefore, she was merrier than usual, and gave a graphic and humorous account
of the company, expatiating on the beauty and mystery of Miss Ainsley, her preference for Clancy,
and his apparent devotion to her.

"By the way," she said at last, "who do you think was there? You can't guess, so I will tell
you--young Mr. Houghton."

"What! the son of that old-beg pardon, Cousin Hugh," and Mrs. Bodine laughingly added, "It
nearly slipped out that time."

"I hope he was not presented to you, Ella," said her father gravely.

"Well, he was, and by Mrs. Willoughby. I didn't talk with him very much, but of course I had
to be polite. When I first heard his name I felt that I should be polite for your sake; and
I was rather sorry for him, too, because so many evidently frowned on his presence."

"You need not be polite to him again for my sake," said her father decidedly. "I am under no
obligations to him or his father, and this is a case into which policy cannot enter. I do not
blame you, however," he added, more kindly, "for you acted from good impulses. Of course, as
you say, you must be polite to every one, but you have a perfect right to be cold toward those
who are unfriendly to us, and with whom we can never have any part or lot. I have been in Mr.
Houghton's employ long enough to be convinced more fully, if possible, that, while he is an
honest man, he has not a particle of sympathy with or for our people. I told him from the start
that there could be no social relations between us. You must learn to avoid and shake off people
who are objectionable."

"Well," said Ella, laughing, "I won't have to shake off people while under Mrs. Robertson's
wing. She bore down upon us, as Cousin Sophy would say, like a seventy-four of the line. Dear
papa, you know that Mr. Houghton is nothing to me, but it scarcely seems fair that he should
be punished for the sins of his father."

"You need not punish him, my dear. Simply have nothing to do with him. He is the last person
in the world to be regarded as an object of sympathy," and her father spoke a little irritably.

Ella thought it wise to make no further reference to him. "After all," she thought, "what does
it matter? I'm glad he had a chance to explain that disagreeable episode in the street, and
now I am practically done with him. I can at least be civil, should we ever meet again, and
there it will end."

"Mrs. Willoughby is going too far," said Mrs. Bodine, musingly. "If she continues to invite
such people she may find that other invitations will be declined without regrets. We haven't
much left to us, but we can at least choose our associates."

"Don't be alarmed," said Ella lightly. "I did not invite him to spend this evening with us,"
and kissing her father and cousin good-by, she started for Mara's home.

Her thoughts were busy on the way, and they were chiefly of a self-gratulatory character. The
whole episode now amused her greatly, for she could not help agreeing with her father that
the great, strapping fellow was not an object of sympathy. "He probably has a score of flames
at the North," she thought, "and wouldn't mind adding a little Southern girl to the number,
especially as she is a sort of forbidden fruit to him. Well, he's not a bad fellow, if he is
that old blank's son, as Cousin Sophy always suggests. Nevertheless, I don't think he's treated
fairly, and I can't keep up these old bitter feelings. What had he or I to do with the war,
I'd like to know? Well, well, I suppose it's natural for those who went through it to feel
as they do, but I wish Mara wasn't so bound up in the past. It isn't fair to him," she broke
out again. "He said I wouldn't be ostracized at the North. Bother! it don't matter what he
said. As to our getting acquainted--" And she almost laughed outright at the preposterous idea.

She and Mara were soon busy as usual, and as opportunity offered, she told her fellow-worker
of the events of the evening. Mara, with a languid interest, inquired about those whom she
knew, and how they appeared, and she sometimes laughed aloud at Ella's droll descriptions.
She was even more emphatic in her disapproval of young Houghton's presence than the captain
or Mrs. Bodine had been. "I shall never accept any invitation from Mrs. Willoughby after this,"
she said firmly.

"Well now, Mara," replied Ella, with a little toss of her head, "I can't share in that spirit.
Mr. Houghton is a gentleman, and I could meet him in society, chat with him, and let it end
there. We can't keep this thing up forever, that is, we of the younger generations. Why should
I hate that big, good-natured fellow? The very idea seems ridiculous. I could laugh at him,
and tease and satirize him a little, but I could no more feel as you do toward him, than I
could cherish an enmity toward a sunflower. Still, since father feels as he does, I shall have
to cut him as far as possible, should I ever meet him again, which is not probable. I reckon
that Mrs. Willoughby will be so crushed that even she won't invite him any more."

"I should hope not, truly."

"Well, she has a Northern girl visiting her, and a very remarkable looking girl she is."

"That is a different affair, although I do not approve of it. Miss Ainsley is the daughter
of a rich man who is doing much for the South, and who feels kindly toward us, while old Mr.
Houghton detests us as heartily as we do him. He is absorbing our business and taking it away
from Southern men, and he exults over the fact. Miss Ainsley is certainly a very beautiful
girl, for I've seen her. I suppose she received much attention." Mara purposely turned her
back on Ella, and busied herself in the further part of the kitchen. She had heard rumors of
Clancy's attention to the fair Northerner, and she both dreaded and hoped to have them verified.
"Anything," she sighed, "oh, anything which will break his hold upon my heart!"

Unconsciously, Ella gave her more information than she could well endure. "I reckon she did
receive attention, very concentrated attention, and that was all she cared for evidently. She
was rather languid until Mr. Clancy appeared, and then she welcomed him with all her brilliant
eyes. He looked as if he understood her perfectly, and they spent most of the evening on the
shadowy balcony together. It is another case of the North conquering the South; but if I were
a man, I'd think twice before surrendering to that girl. I had an instinctive distrust of her."

Mara felt that she was growing pale, and she immediately busied herself about the stove until
her face flamed with the heat.

"You don't seem to take much interest in the affair," Ella remarked, as Mara continued silent.

"I never expect to make Miss Ainsley's acquaintance," was the quiet reply, "and Mr. Clancy
in my view has almost ceased to be a Southerner."

"Well, I never met him before, and have only heard a little about him from cousin Sophy, and
that not in his favor. He has a strong, intelligent face though, and a very resolute look in
his eyes."

"Yes," admitted Mara coldly, "I reckon he's one who would have his own way without much regard
for others."

"He may slip up for once. Miss Ainsley struck me as a girl who would have her way, no matter
how many hearts she fractured."

Aun' Sheba and Vilet now entered, diverting Ella's thoughts. The old woman sat down rather
wearily, a look of deep dejection on her face.

"Look here, Aun' Sheba," said the lively girl, "you're not well, or else something is troubling
you. You looked down-hearted yesterday, and you look funereal now."

"We'se been sot on," said Aun' Sheba solemnly.

"'Sot on!' good gracious! Aun' Sheba, what do you mean?"

"Well, dey sot on my ole man, an' husband an' wife am me. Hit didn't turn out bad as I s'posed
it would, bress tat ar son-in-law ob mine, but I keeps a tinkin' it all ober, an' I'se 'jected,
I is; an' dar's no use ob shoutin' glory wen you doan feel glory." Then she told the whole
story, which kept Ella on pins and needles, for, while she felt an honest sympathy for the
poor soul, she had an almost uncontrollable desire to laugh.

"Yes, Missy Mara," concluded Aun' Sheba pathetically, "I'se s'pended, I s'pended myself, an'
I'se gwine to stay s'pended till I feels mo' shuah."

"Suspended, Aun' Sheba!" said Mara, starting, suddenly becoming conscious of present surroundings.

Aun' Sheba looked at her wonderingly, but voluble Ella made it all right by saying, "No wonder
Mara exclaimed. The idea! I wish I was half as good as you are."

"Oh, yes," cried Mara, striving to conceal her deep preoccupation, "that's the way with Aun'
Sheba; the better she is, the worse she thinks she is. Do you mean to say that your church
people have suspended you?"

"No. I'se s'pended myself. Didn't I tole you?"

"There, there, Aunty, I didn't understand. I believe in you and always will."

"Well, honey, I reckon you'se ole nuss'll alers be do same ter you wheder she'se 'ligious or no."

Both the girls now stood beside her, with a hand on either shoulder, and Ella said heartily,
"Now, Aun' Sheba, it is just as you said, you're 'jected; you've got the blues, and everything
looks blue and out of shape to you. You can't see the truth any more than if you were cross-eyed.
I can prove to you whether you're 'ligious or not. Vilet, ain't your grandma a good Christian
woman?"

"'Deed an' she is troo an' troo," said the child, who had been a silent, yet deeply sympathetic
listener. "Many's de time she's sent me wid good tings to po' sick folks."

"There now," cried Ella. "Aun' Sheba, you've got to believe the Bible. 'Out of the mouths of
babes and sucklings,' it says. You can't deceive a child. Vilet knows better than you do."

"Shuah now, does you tink it's dataway?" and Aun' Sheba looked up with hope in her eyes.

"Of course we think it's that way," said Ella. "Aun' Sheba, you know a heap, as you say, about
many things, but you don't half know how good you are."

"I know how bad I is anyhow. I tells you I was in a dozin' sleep."

"Well, I've been in a dozin' sleep many a time," said Ella, "and I'm not going to be suspended
by any one, not even myself."

"Aun' Sheba," said Mara gently but firmly, "you know I'm in earnest, and how much I love you
for all your goodness ever since I was a helpless baby. You wouldn't say hard, untrue things
against any one else. You have no more right to be unjust to yourself. As Ella says, I wish
I was as good a Christian as you are."

"Now, Missy Mara, no mo' ob dat ar talk. I knows my inard feelin's bes' ob any one. What Vilet
say chirk me up po'fully, kase she see me ebery day. I tell you what I'se gwine ter do; I'se
gwine ter put myself on 'bation, and den see wot come ob it. Now, honeys, I'se 'feered long
nuff wid business. You'se dun me good, honey lam's, an' de Lawd bress you bofe. I'se tote de
basket a heap pearter fer dis yere talk. I feels a monst'us sight betteh. Wish I could see
you, honey, lookin' as plump as Missy Ella. Dat do me mos' as much good as feelin' 'ligious."

Mara worried Mrs. Hunter over her pretence of making a dinner, and then gladly sought the solitude
of her own room. At last she said with a bitter smile, "He has broken the last shred that bound
me." But as the hours passed in tumultuous thoughts, her heart told her how vain were such words.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE WARNING

Captain Bodine was halting serenely down into that new vista in his life of which we have already
spoken. Every day both promise and fulfilment seemed richer than he had ever imagined any future
experience could be. He was domiciled in a home exactly to his taste; his cousin's brave, cheerful
spirit was infectious; the worry of financial straits was over, and Ella was blooming and happy.
These favorable changes in themselves would have done much toward banishing gloom and despondency;
but another element had entered into his existence which was as unexpected as it was sweet.
A deep, subtile exhilaration was growing out of his companionship with Mara. Every long, quiet
talk that he enjoyed with her left a longing for another. She was learning to regard him almost
as a father, but he did not think of her as he did of Ella. He loved Ella as his child, but
her buoyant spirit, her intense enjoyment of the present, and her eager, hopeful eyes, fixed
upon the future, separated her from him. He did not wish it otherwise in her case, for he hoped
that there was a happy future for her, and he rejoiced daily over the gladness in her face.
Mara, although so young, seemed of his own generation. He often repeated to himself his cousin's
words, "She is as old as you are." She appeared to live in the past as truly as himself. There
was scarcely a subject on which they were not in sympathy.

He believed that Mrs. Bodine was right, and that Mara was essentially different from others
of her age. Indeed the impression grew upon him that the mysterious principle of heredity had
prepared her for the companionship which apparently was valued as much by her as by himself.
During the many hours in which he was alone, he thought the subject over in all its aspects,
as he supposed, and a hope, exquisitely alluring, began to take form in his heart.

No man is without a certain amount of egotism and self-love, and, although these were not characteristics
of Bodine, he could not help dwelling upon the truth that the remainder of his life would be
very different from what he had expected could Mara be near to him.

Her eloquent look of sympathy so soon after they met began to take the form of prophecy. At
first it led him to believe that she would receive a paternal, loving regard, much the same
as he gave to Ella; but, as time passed, he began to dwell upon the possibility of a closer
tie. She appeared to have no especial friends among young men, nor indeed to care for any.
Might not a strong, quiet affection grow in each heart until they could become one in the closest
sense, even as they were now one in so many of their thoughts and views?

It was natural that his deepening regard should tinge his manner, yet Mara dreamed of nothing
beyond the affection which she was glad to receive from him. Vigilant eyes, however, were following
Captain Bodine, and Clancy, with a lover's jealous intuition, was guessing his rival's thoughts
and intentions more clearly every day. He did not adopt any system of espionage, nor did he
ask questions of any one, but merely took occasion to walk on the Battery at an hour when it
was most frequented. Here he often saw Mara and the veteran enjoying the cool sunset hour,
and sometimes he observed that Mara saw him. So far from shunning such observation, he not
infrequently compelled her recognition, which was always coldly bestowed upon her part.

"It would seem that Mr. Clancy is more inclined to be friendly than you are," Bodine remarked
one evening.

"Before Mr. Clancy valued Northern friends more than Southern ones we were friendly," was Mara's
quiet reply. She had schooled herself now into outward self-control, but she chafed at his
presence, and thought he happened to be near her too frequently. Still it was ever will versus
heart, for the latter always acknowledged him as master.

He was satisfied that his impressions in regard to Bodine were correct, and was impelled by
his love to make an effort to save her from drifting into relations which he believed must
inevitably destroy her chance for happiness. His strong, keen mind had analyzed her every word,
tone, and varying expression, and he had become quite sure that her bearing toward him was
not the result of indifference, but was rather due to pride, and a resolute purpose not to
yield to him unless he adopted her views. He also understood her sufficiently well to dread
lest a morbid sense of loyalty to her father's memory might lead her to accept his friend and
old companion in arms.

"Her immediate associates would encourage the idea," he thought, "and there are none to advise
or warn her except myself. She is morbid and unbalanced enough to commit just such a fatal
error. Her bringing up, and all the influence of that warped Mrs. Hunter, would lead her to
sacrifice herself to the manes of her ancestors. Yet how can I warn her--how can I reach her
except I write? I wish to look into her eyes when I speak. I wish to plead with her with all
the power that I possibly possess. Great Heaven! if this that I fear should happen, what an
awakening she might have when it was too late!"

At last he resolved on the simplest and most straightforward course, and wrote--

"MARA--Will you grant me one more interview--the last, unless you freely concede others. I
have something important to say to you, something that relates far more to your happiness than
to my own. In excuse for my request, I have nothing better to plead than my love which you
have rejected, and yet which entitles me to some consideration. I think my motive is unselfish--as
unselfish as can be possible under the circumstances. You may treat me as you please, but your
welfare will always be dear to me. I shall not seek to change your convictions, nor shall I
plead for myself, for I know that all this would be useless; but I wish to see you face to
face once more alone in your own home. I must also request that Mrs. Hunter will not interfere
with our interview. You are not a child, and you know that I am a gentleman, and that I am
incapable of saying a word at variance with my profound respect for you.    OWEN CLANCY."

Mara was deeply agitated by this missive. Her first emotion was that of anger, as much at herself
as at him--a confused resentment that his words, his very handwriting, should so move her,
and that he should venture to write at all. Had she not made it sufficiently plain that he
had no right to take, or, at least, to manifest any such interest in her affairs? Were all
her efforts futile to hide her love? In spite of her habit of reserve and repression she had
a passionate heart, and this fact had been forced upon her by vain and continuous struggles.
Had he the penetration to learn the truth? She could not tell, and this uncertainty touched
her pride to the very quick. After hours of wavering purpose, impulses to ignore him and his
request, moments of tenderness in which will, pride, and every consideration were almost overwhelmed,
she at last arrived at a fixed resolution. "I will see him," she murmured. "He has virtually
told me that he will not give up what he terms his principles for love. I shall not acknowledge
my secret, but if he has discovered it, he shall learn that I also will not give up my principles
for love."

The next morning she quietly handed Clancy's note to Mrs. Hunter.

"Shameful!" ejaculated the lady. "Of course you will pay no attention to him, or else write
a curt refusal. I insist on one course or the other."

Mara looked steadfastly at her aunt until the worthy lady was somewhat disconcerted, and asked
fretfully, "What do you mean by that look, Mara?"

"Aunty, can't you realize that I am no longer a child, as he says?"

"Well, but in a case like this--"

"In a case like this which concerns me so personally, I must act according to my own judgment.
You can be in the adjoining room. Indeed I have no objection to your hearing what is said,
but I would rather you should not. You have no occasion to fear. Mr. Clancy has alienated me
forever. I have no doubt that before the summer is over he will be engaged to Miss Ainsley,
if he is not already engaged virtually. I have reasons for granting this final interview which
are personal--which my self-respect requires, and, since they are personal, I need not mention
them. There shall be no want of respect and affection for you, aunty, but you must realize
that I have become an independent woman, and I have the entire right to decide certain questions
for myself."

"Well, I wash my hands of it all," said Mrs. Hunter, coldly, "and since my strong convictions
have no weight with you, and you intend to act independently of me, of course I shall not permit
myself to hear a word of your conversation."

"That will be the more delicate and honorable course, aunty."

"Well, Mara, I only wish I need not be in the house at the time."

"Aunty, that is the same as saying that your enmity toward Mr. Clancy is greater than your
love for me."

"But I don't see the use of this intensely disagreeable interview. This is the only home I have."

"And the only home I have also, aunty."

"Oh, well, if you will, you will, I reckon."

"Yes, if I will, I will, and Mr. Clancy shall learn that I have a will."

As Aun' Sheba was departing that morning, Mara followed her into the hallway, and, placing
a note in her hand, said, "Give that to Mr. Clancy and to no other. Say nothing to him or to
any one else. Do you understand, Aun' Sheba?"

"I does, honey. Wen you talk dataway you'se heah an eyster shoutin' 'fore Aun' Sheba speak."

Clancy only said, "Thank you," as he thrust a half-dollar into the old woman's hand.

Aun' Sheba laid it on the desk, and remarked with great dignity, "I does some tings widout money."

He paid no heed to her, but read eagerly, "Mr. Clancy--Come this evening. Mara Wallingford."

With a long breath he thought, "It will be my last chance. I fear it will be useless, but at
no future day shall she think in bitterness of heart, 'He might have done more to save me.'"

There was no sudden, involuntary illumination of her face on this occasion when he entered
her little parlor, and she could not help noticing that his face was pale. She also saw from
his expression that his spirit was as high as hers; that there was not a trace of the lover,
eager to plead his cause. "He has pleaded successfully elsewhere," she thought, and, in spite
of all other conflicting feelings, she was curious to know what his motive could be in seeking
the interview.

"Good-evening, Mr. Clancy. Will you sit down?" she said, coldly.

"Yes, Mara. Pardon me for calling you Mara. I am beyond any affectation of formality with you,
and you know there is no lack of respect on my part."

She merely bowed and waited in silence.

"When you learn my motive for making my request, for coming here to-night, you will probably
resent it, but you have taught me to expect little else except resentment from you."

"Mr. Clancy, there is no cause for such language. Certainly I was quietly pursuing the even
tenor of my way."

"Do you understand fully whither that way is leading?"

"Truly, Mr. Clancy, that is a singular question for you to ask."

"I understand you, Mara. You mean that it is no affair of mine."

He knew that her silence gave assent to this view, and he answered as if she had spoken.

"Nevertheless you are mistaken. It is an affair of mine. There could be no peace for me in
the future if I failed you now, for it seems to me I am the only true friend you have in the
world."

"Mr. Clancy," she said hotly, "we have differed so greatly before that I might have been saved
the pain of this interview, but we never differed as we do at this moment. I cannot listen
to you any longer. It would be disloyalty to those who are true friends--friends that I love
and honor."

"Do you love Captain Bodine?"

"Certainly I do. He was my father's friend; he is my honored friend."

"Do you love Captain Bodine?"

"What do you mean?" she asked angrily, flushing to her very brow.

"Mara, be calm. Listen to me as you value your life, as you value your own soul. Do you think
I would come here for slight cause at such cost to us both?"

"I think you are strangely mistaken in coming here, and using language which makes me doubt
your sanity."

"Please do me the justice to note that there is nothing wild in my manner, nor any excitement
in my words."

"Noting this, I find it more difficult to explain your course, or to pardon it."

"It is not necessary at present, that you should do either. Please be patient a few minutes
longer and my mission is ended. I am not pleading for myself, but for you. Please listen, or
a time may come when in a bitterness beyond words you may regret that you did not hear me.
Thank Heaven! it is clear that I have not come too late. Captain Bodine is more than your friend
in his feelings; he is your lover, and you are so morbid, unfriended, unguided, that you are
capable of sacrificing yourself--"

"Hush! you are wronging a man whom you are unworthy to name. He has never dreamed of such love
as you suggest."

"I am right. Oh, I have learned too deeply in the school of experience not to know. My warning
may be of no avail, but you shall not drift unawares into this thing, you shall not enter into
it, nor be persuaded into it from a false spirit of self-sacrifice--"

"Mr. Clancy, I will not listen a moment longer to such preposterous language. You are passing
far beyond the limits of my forbearance. If your conscience is burdened on my account because
I am so 'unfriended,' I absolve you fully. You will and do know how to console yourself. Our
interview must end here and now. It were disloyalty for me to listen a moment longer. We are
strangers from this day forth, Mr. Clancy." And she rose flushed and trembling.

He also rose, and with an intent look which held her gaze, said gently: "There is that which
will speak although I am banished."

"What?"

"Your heart."

"If it broke a thousand times I will not speak to you again," she cried passionately. "Even
if you were right it would be ignoble to suggest such a thing. Truly your associations have
led you far from the promise of your youth."

"I have not said that your heart would plead for me," he replied sternly. "But it will plead
against all that is unnatural, contrary to your young girlhood, contrary to the true, right
instincts which God has created. You may seek to stifle its voice, but you cannot. When you
are alone it will tell you, like the still small voice of God, that your obdurate will is wrong,
that your narrow prejudices and morbid memories are all wrong and vain;--it will tell you that
you cannot become the wife of this man, who would sacrifice you as a solace to his remaining
years, without wrecking your happiness for life. Farewell, Mara Wallingford. There is one thing
you can never forget--that I warned you."

He bowed low and departed immediately.

CHAPTER XXIV

"THE IDEA!"

Mara was not the kind of girl that faints or goes into hysterics. The spirit of her father
was aroused to the last degree. She felt that she had been arraigned and condemned by one who
had no right to do either; that all the cherished traditions of her life had been trampled
upon; that her father's loved companion-in-arms, and her dear friend, had been insulted. Even
wise, saintly Mrs. Bodine, her genial counsellor, had been ignored. "Was there ever such monstrous
assumption!" she cried, as she paced back and forth with clinched hands.

She soon heard the step of Mrs. Hunter, and became outwardly calm.

"Well?" said her aunt.

"He won't come again, nor shall I speak to him again. Let these facts content you, aunty."

"That much at least is satisfactory," said Mrs. Hunter, "but I think it was a wretched mistake
to see him at all."

"It was not a mistake, for he has revealed the depths into which a man can sink who adopts
his course. I have some respect for an out-and-out Northerner, brought up as such; but it does
seem that when a man turns traitor, as it were, he goes to greater lengths than those whose
camp he joins. He suspects those who are too noble for him to understand."

"Whom does Mr. Clancy suspect?"

"Oh, all of us. He came to advise me as an unprotected, unfriended, unguided girl."

"Was there ever such impudence on the face of the earth!"

Mara sank exhausted into a chair in the inevitable reaction from her strong excitement.

"Aunty, it is all over, and we shall not meet again except as strangers. Never say a word of
his coming, of this interview, to any one. It is my affair, and I wish to forget it as far
as possible."

"You know I'm not a gossip, Mara, about family matters, especially disagreeable matters. Well,
perhaps it will turn out for the best, since you have broken with him entirely. It always made
me angry that he should continue to speak to you, and even sit down and talk to you at an evening
company, when you could not repulse him without arresting the attention of every one."

"Good-night, aunty. All that is over."

"Mara, you must take an opiate to-night."

"Yes; give me something to make me sleep, that will bring oblivion for at least to-night. I
must be ready for my work in the morning. It won't take me long now to attain self-control."

"Mara," cried Ella the next day, "you look positively ill. I wish you could take a rest. Suppose
we shut up shop for a while, and hang out a sign, 'closed for repairs.'"

"No, Ella. I can stand it, if you can, till August, and then we will take a month's rest. I
wasn't very well last night, but I have found a remedy which is going to help me, and I shall
be better."

Ella took the surface meaning of these words, and, being preoccupied with her own thoughts,
remained, as well as Mara, rather silent that morning. Although she assured herself more than
once that George Houghton was "nothing to her," she found herself thinking a great deal about
him, and what she termed "their droll experiences." Prone to take a mirthful view of everything,
she often laughed over the whole affair, and it grew rather than lost in interest with time.
It was the first real adventure of her girlhood, and he was the first man who had retained
more than a transient place in her thoughts. Feeling that their acquaintance had come about
through no fault of hers, she was disposed to get all the fun possible out of what had occurred.

The morning was warm, and she was working in charming dishabille. Dressed in light summer costume,
thrown open at her throat, and with sleeves rolled to her shoulders, she appeared a veritable
Hebe. Her bright, golden, fluffy hair was gathered carelessly into a Grecian knot, and her
flushed face received more than one flour-mark as she impatiently brushed away the flies. Seeing
her smiling to herself so often, Mara envied her, but made no comment. At last the girl broke
into a ringing laugh.

"What is amusing you so greatly?" Mara asked.

"I can't get over that party at Mrs. Willoughby's. It was all so irresistibly comical. Cousin
Sophy thinks she has a genius for choosing chaperons, and so she has, but fate is too strong
for men and gods, not to mention saintly and secluded old ladies. I had scarcely more than
entered the drawing-room, and taken my bearings, as cousin would say, when the worst Vandal
of the lot is marched up to me, and I--green little girl--thought I must be polite to him and
every one else. When I think of it all, I see that my chaperon was like a distressed hen with
a duckling that would go into the water. Without any effort of mine, that great Goth, Mr. Houghton,
submitted himself to my inspection, and instead of being horrified, I have been laughing at
him ever since. He struck me as an exceedingly harmless creature, with large capabilities for
blundering. He would not step on a fly maliciously, yet poor Mrs. Robertson acted as if I were
near an ogre who might devour me at a mouthful. How she did manoeuvre to keep that big fellow
away! and what a homily she gave me on our way home! It all seems so absurd. I wish papa would
not take such things so seriously, for I can't see any harm in making sport of the Philistines."

"Making sport for the Philistines--that is what your father and what we all object to. This
young Houghton would very gladly amuse himself at your expense."

"I'd like to see him try it," said Ella defiantly. "I'd turn the tables on him so quickly as
to take away his breath."

"Oh, Ella! why do you think about such people at all?"

"Because they amuse me. What's the harm in thinking about him in my jolly way? There's nothing
bad about him. His worst crimes are, that he is comical and the son of his father."

"How do you know there's nothing bad about him?"

"For the same reason that I distrust Miss Ainsley. Each makes an impression which I believe
is correct."

"Well, well, Ella," said Mara, a little impatiently, "laugh it out and have done with him.
For all our sakes, please have nothing more to do with such people."

"I haven't sought 'such people,'" replied Ella, with a shrug; "but I tell you, Mara, I'm not
going through life with my eyes shut, nor am I going to look through a pair of blue spectacles.
See here, sweetheart, what did God give me eyes for? What did he give me a brain for? To see
through some one else's eyes? to think with the brain of another? No, indeed; that's contrary
to such reason and common-sense as I possess."

"You certainly will be guided by your father?"

"Yes, yes, indeed, in all that pertains to his welfare and happiness. I could die for him this
minute, and would if it were required. But there are things which I cannot do for him or any
one. I cannot ignore my own conscience and sense of right. I cannot think his thoughts any
more than he can think mine. You dear, melancholy little goose, don't you know that God never
rolls two people into one, even after they are married? They are, or should be, one in a vital
sense, yet they are different, independent beings, and were made so. I'd like to know of any
one in this town more bent upon having her own way than you."

Mara was silent, for Ella had a way of putting things which disturbed her.

"Cousin Sophy," said Ella in the afternoon, "hasn't the proper time come for me to make my
party call on Mrs. Willoughby? You are my Mentor in all that relates to etiquette, and that
giddy fraction of the world termed society."

"Well, yes," said the old lady, "I suppose it is time. In the case of Mrs. Willoughby it will
be little more than a formality, for she is an acquaintance you will not care to cultivate.
You may be lucky enough to find her out, and then your card will answer all the purposes of
a call."

"Oh, I know that much, cousin, if I am from the wilds of the interior; but if she is in, I
suppose I should sit down and talk about the weather a little while."

"Go along, you saucy puss. Tell her how shocked you were to see old Houghton's son in her parlors."

"Well, I was at first. Bah! cousin, he's a great big boy, and doesn't know any more than I
do about some things."

"Well added. Tell her, then, we have enough Southern gentlemen remaining, and there is no necessity
of inviting big Northern hobble-de-hoys."

"Oh! I didn't mean that, cousin. Be fair now. He was gentlemanly enough, as much so as the
rest of them, but he was young and giddy, like myself, just as you used to be and are now sometimes;"
and she stopped the old lady's mouth with kisses, then ran to dress for the street.

The kitchen Hebe of the morning was soon metamorphosed into a very charmingly costumed young woman.

Even Miss Ainsley was compelled to recognize the lovely and harmonious effect, although it
did not bear the latest brand of fashion, or represent costly expenditure.

Both she and Mrs. Willoughby were pleased as Ella stepped lightly into the back parlor, and
the young girl congratulated herself that she had come so opportunely, for they were evidently
expecting visits like her own.

One and another dropped in until Mrs. Willoughby was entertaining three or four in the front
parlor. Miss Ainsley remained chatting with Ella, who felt that the Northern girl's remarks
were largely tentative, evincing a wish to draw her out. Shrewd Ella soon began to generalize
to such a degree that Miss Ainsley thought, "You are no fool," and had a growing respect for
the "little baker," as she had termed the young girl.

Then Clancy appeared, and Ella was forgotten, but she saw the same unmistakable welcome which
from some women would mean all that a lover could desire. Ella thought that a slight expression
of vexation crossed his brow as he recognized in her Mara's partner and friend, but he spoke
to her politely and even cordially. Indeed, no one could do otherwise, for her face would propitiate
an ogre. She thought there was a spice of recklessness in Clancy's manner, and she heard him
remark to Miss Ainsley that he had come to say good-by for a short time. That young woman led
the way to the balcony and began to expostulate; and then Ella's attention was riveted on a
tall young fellow, who was shaking hands with Mrs. Willoughby.

"Good gracious!" she thought, "what can I do if he sees me? How can I 'shake off and avoid'
in this back parlor? I can't make a bolt for the front door or sneak out of the back door;
I can't sit here like a graven image if he comes--"

"Miss Bodine! Well, I'm lucky for once in my ill-fated life."

"Oh! I beg your pardon," remarked Ella, turning from the window, out of which she had apparently
been gazing with intense preoccupation. "Good-afternoon, Mr. Houghton." But he held out his
hand with such imperative cordiality that she had to take it. Then he drew up a chair to the
corner of the sofa on which she sat and placed it in a way that barred approach or egress.
"Oh, shade of Mrs. Hunter!" she groaned inwardly, "what can I do? I'm fairly surrounded--all
avenues of retreat cut off. I must face the enemy and fight."

"I knew the chance would come for us to get acquainted," said Houghton, settling himself complacently
in the great armchair, "but I had scarcely hoped for such a happy opportunity as this so soon."

"I must go in a few minutes," she remarked demurely. "I have been here some time."

"Miss Bodine, you are not capable of such cruelty. You know it is very early yet."

"I thought you came to call on Mrs. Willoughby?"

"So I did, and I have called on her. See her talking ancient history to those dowagers yonder.
What a figure I'd cut in that group."

She laughed outright, as much from nervous trepidation as at the comical idea suggested, and
was in an inward rage that she did so, for she had intended to be so dignified and cool as
to depress and discourage the "objectionable person" who hedged her in.

"What a jolly, infectious laugh you have!" he resumed. "To be able to laugh well is a rare
accomplishment. Some snicker, others giggle, chuckle, cackle, make all sorts of disagreeable
noises, but a natural, merry, musical laugh-Miss Bodine, I congratulate you, and myself also,
that I happened in this blessed afternoon to hear it. And that terrible chaperon of yours isn't
here either. How she frowned on me the other evening as if I were a wolf in the fold," and
the young man broke into a clear ringing laugh at the recollection.

Ella was laughing with him in spite of herself. Indeed the more she tried to be grave and severe
the more impossible it became.

"Mr. Houghton," she managed to say at last, "will you do me a favor?"

"Scores of them."

"Then stop making me laugh. I don't wish to laugh."

His face instantly assumed such portentous and awful gravity that he set her off again to such
a degree that the dowagers in the other room looked at her rebukingly. It was bad enough, they
thought, that she should talk to old Houghton's son at all, but to show such unbecoming levity-well,
it was not what they would "expect of a Bodine." Ella saw their disapproval, and felt she was
losing her self-control. The warnings she had received against her companion embarrassed her,
and banished the power to be her natural self.

"Please don't," she gasped, "or I shall go at once. I asked a favor."

"Pardon me, Miss Bodine," he now said in a tone and manner which quieted her nerves at once.
"I have blundered again, but I was so happy to think that I had met you here. I am not wholly
a rattle-brain. What would you like to talk about?" and he looked so kindly and eager to please
her that she cast down her eyes and contracted her brow in deepest perplexity.

"Truly, Mr. Houghton, I should be on my way homeward, and you have so hedged me in that I cannot
escape."

"Is running away from me escaping?"

"I don't like that phrase 'running away.'"

"Yet that is what you propose to do."

"Oh, no, I shall take my departure in a very composed and dignified manner."

His face had the expression of almost boyish distress. "You find on further thought that you
cannot forgive me?" he asked sadly.

"Did I not say that was all explained and settled? Southern girls are not fickle or false to
their word." And she managed to assume an aspect of great dignity. "If I do not shake him off
in the next few minutes I'm lost," she thought.

"I've offended you again," he said anxiously.

She took refuge in silence.

"Miss Bodine, I ask your pardon. You know I can't do more than that, or if I can, tell me what.
I wish to please you very much."

The girl was at her wit's end, for his ingenuous expression emphasized the truth of his words.
"There is no reason why you should please me," she began coolly, and then knew not how to proceed.

"Let us be frank with each other," he resumed earnestly. "We are too young yet to indulge in
society lies. When a man apologizes at the North he is forgiven. I have been told that Southerners
are a generous, warm-hearted people. In their cool treatment of me they counteract the climate.
Are you, too, going to ostracize me?"

"I fear I shall have to," she replied faintly.

"Of your own free will?"

"No, indeed."

His heart gave a great throb of joy, but he had the sense to conceal his gladness. He only
said quietly, "Well, I'm glad that you at least do not detest me."

"Why should I detest you, Mr. Houghton?"

"I'm sure I don't know why any one should. I have never harmed any one in this town that I
know of."

She knew not how to answer, for she could not reflect upon his father.

"I don't care about others, but your case."

"Truly, Mr. Houghton," she began hastily, "this is a large city. A few impoverished Southern
people are nothing to you."

"I was not thinking of Southern people," he replied gravely. "You said a moment since you saw
no reason why I should try to please you. Am I to blame if you have inspired many reasons?
I know you better than any girl in the world. You revealed your very self in a moment of danger
to me as you thought. I saw that you were good and brave--that you possess just the qualities
that I most respect and admire in a woman. Every moment I am with you confirms this belief.
Why should I not wish to please you, to become your friend? I know I should be the better in
every respect if you were my friend."

She shook her head, but did not venture to look at him.

"You believe I am sincere, Miss Bodine. You cannot think I am sentimental or flirtatious. I
would no more do you wrong, even in my thoughts, than I would think evil of my dead mother.
You are mirthful in your nature; so am I, but I do not think that either of us is shallow or
silly. If I am personally disagreeable, that ends everything, but how can a man secure the
esteem and friendly regard of a woman, when he covets these supremely, unless he speaks and
reveals his feelings?"

"You are talking wildly, Mr. Houghton," said Ella, with averted face. "We have scarcely more
than met."

"You would lead me to think that you Southern people are tenfold colder and more deliberate
than we of the North. You may not have thought of me since we met, but I have thought of you
constantly. I could not help it."

Ella felt that she must escape now as if for her life, and, summoning all her faculties and
resolution, she said, looking him in the eyes, "I've no doubt, Mr. Houghton, you think you
are sincere in your words at this moment, but you may soon wonder that you spoke such hasty words."

"In proving you mistaken, time will be my ally."

"You have asked me to be frank," she resumed. "In justice to you and myself I feel that I must
be so. I do not share in the prejudices, if you prefer that word, of my father, but I must
be governed by his wishes. I trust that you will not ask me to say more. Won't you please let
me go now? See, the last guests are leaving."

"Tell me one thing," he pleaded eagerly as he rose. "I am not personally disagreeable to you?"

"The idea of my telling you anything of the kind!" and there was a flash of mirthfulness in
her face which left him in a most tormenting state of uncertainty. A moment later she had shaken
hands with Mrs. Willoughby, and was gone.

He stood looking after her, half-dazed by his conflicting feelings. Turning, Mrs. Willoughby
saw and understood him at once. She came to his side and said kindly, "Sit down, Mr. Houghton,
I've not had a chance to talk with you yet."

With an involuntary sigh he complied.

CHAPTER XXV

FEMININE FRIENDS

Mrs. Willoughby was a woman of the world, yet in no bad sense. Indeed, beneath the veneer of
fashionable life she possessed much kindliness of nature. She was capable of a good deal of
cynicism toward those who she said "ought to be able to take care of themselves," and in this
category she placed Clancy and Miss Ainsley. "I shall leave both to paddle their own canoes,"
she had said to herself.

Looking kindly at Houghton, who seemed to have lost his volubility, and waited for her to speak
again, she thought: "If this young fellow was infatuated with Caroline I'd warn him quick enough."
With the astuteness of a matron she merely remarked: "You seem greatly pleased with my little
friend, Miss Bodine. You must not trifle with her, if she is poor, for she comes of one of
the best families in the State."

"Trifle with Miss Bodine! What do you take me for, Mrs. Willoughby?" and he rose indignantly.

"There, now, sit down, my friend. I only said that so you might reveal how sincere you are,
and I won't use any more diplomacy with you."

"I hope not," he replied laughing grimly. "You ought to know, what I am fast finding out, that
a young fellow, like me, can no more understand a woman, unless she is frank, than he can Choctaw."

Mrs. Willoughby laughed heartily, and said: "I'll be frank with you, if you will be so with me."

"Then tell me why I am treated by so many in your set as if I had overrun the South with fire
and sword?"

His first question proved that she could not be frank, for in order to give an adequate explanation
she would have to reveal to him his father's animus and the hostility it evoked. She temporized
by saying: "I do not so treat you, and surely Miss Bodine seemed to enjoy your conversation."

"I'm not so sure of that. At any rate she said she would have to ostracize me like the rest."

"She was kind in telling you that she would have to do so. She certainly bears you no ill-will."

"She probably does not care enough about me yet to do that. The worst of it is that I shall
have no chance. Her father objects to her having anything to do with me, and that blocks everything.
Even if I were capable of seeking a clandestine acquaintance, she is not. She is a thoroughly
good girl; she doesn't know how to be deceitful."

"I'm glad you appreciate her so truly."

"I'd be a donkey if I didn't."

"Well, don't be unwise in your future action."

"What action can I take?" and he looked at her almost imploringly. A young man of his age is
usually very ready to make a confidante of a married woman older than himself, yet young enough
to sympathize with him in affairs of the heart. Houghton instinctively felt that the case might
not be utterly hopeless if he could secure an ally in Mrs. Willoughby, for he recognized her
tact, and believed that she was friendly. He promptly determined therefore to seek and to take
her advice.

She looked at him searchingly as she said: "Perhaps it would be best not to take any action
at all. If Miss Bodine has made only a passing and pleasant impression, and you merely desire
to secure another agreeable acquaintance you had better stop where you are. It will save you
much annoyance, and, what is of far more consequence, may keep her from real trouble. As you
suggest, you cannot do anything in an underhand way. If you attempted it, you would lose her
respect instantly, your own also. She idolizes her father, and will not act contrary to his
wishes. Why not let the matter drop where it is?"

"Can't take any such advice as that," he replied, shaking his head resolutely.

"Why not?"

"Oh, confound it! Suppose some one, years ago, had advised Mr. Willoughby in such style."

"Is it as serious as that?"

He passed his hand in perplexity over his brow. "Mrs. Willoughby," he burst out, "I'm in deep
water. 'I reckon,' as you say here, you understand me better than I do myself. I only know
that I'd face all creation for the sake of that girl, yet what you say about making her trouble,
staggers me. I'm in sore perplexity, and don't know what to do."

"Will you take my advice?"

"Yes, I will, as long as I believe you are my honest friend, as long as I can."

"Well, you won't try to see Ella before you have consulted me?"

"I promise that."

"Don't do anything at present Think the matter over quietly and conscientiously. I'm sorry
I must make one other suggestion. I fear your father would be as much opposed to all this as
Captain Bodine himself."

"I think not. My father is not so stern as he seems. At least he is not stern to me, and he
has let me spend more money than my neck's worth. I fancy he is well disposed toward Captain
Bodine, for he has given him employment. I asked the old gentleman about it one day, but he
changed the subject. He wouldn't have employed the captain, however, unless he was interested
in him some way."

"Why wouldn't he?"

"Oh, well, he naturally prefers to have Northerners about him."

"Will you permit me to be a little more frank than I have been?"

"I supposed you were going to be altogether frank."

"For fear of hurting your feelings I have not been. Your father is not friendly to us, and
we reciprocate. This makes it harder for you."

Houghton thought in silence for a few moments, and then said: "You should make allowance for
an old man, half heart-broken by the death of his oldest son, drowned in the bay there."

"I do; so would others, if he were not vindictive, if he did not use his great financial strength
against us."

"I don't think he does this, certainly not to my knowledge. He only seeks to make all he can,
like other business men."

"Mr. Houghton, you haven't been very much in Charleston. Even your vacations have been spent
mainly elsewhere, I think, and your mind has been occupied with your studies and athletics.
You are more familiar with Greek and Roman history than with ours, and you cannot understand
the feelings of persons like Captain Bodine and his cousin, old Mrs. Bodine, who passed through
the agony of the war, and lost nearly everything--kindred, property, and what they deem liberty.
You cannot understand your own father, who lost his son. You think of the present and future."

Houghton again sighed deeply as he said: "I admit the force of all you say. I certainly cannot
feel as they do, nor perhaps understand them." Then he added: "I wouldn't if I could. Why should
I tie the millstone of the past about my neck?"

"You should not do so; but you must make allowance for those to whom that past is more than
the present or future can be."

"Why can't they forgive and forget, as far as possible, as you do?"

"Because people are differently constituted. Besides, young man, I am not old enough to be
your grandmother. I was very young at the time of the war, and have not suffered as have others."

"Grandmother, indeed! I should think that Mr. Willoughby would fall in love with you every day."

"The grand passion has a rather prominent place in your thoughts just now. Some day you will
be like Mr. Willoughby, and cotton, stocks, or their equivalents, will take a very large share
of your thoughts."

"Well, that day hasn't come yet. Even the wise man said there was a time for all things. How
long must my probation last before I can come back for more advice?"

"A week, at least"

"Phew!"

"You must think it all over, as I said before, calmly and conscientiously. I have tried to
enable you to see the subject on all its sides, and I tell you again that you may find just
as much opposition from your father as from Captain Bodine. He may have very different plans
for you. Ella Bodine has nothing but her own good heart to give you, supposing you were able
to persuade her to give that much."

"That much would enrich me forever."

"Your father wouldn't see it in that light. He may call her that designing little baker."

"I hope he won't for God's sake. I never said a hot word to my father."

"Never do so, then. If you lose your temper, all is lost. But we are anticipating. Sober, second
thoughts may lead you to save yourself and others a world of trouble."

"Oh! I've had second thoughts before. Good-by. At this hour, one week hence;" and he shook
hands heartily.

A moment later, he came rushing back from the hall, exclaiming: "There! See, what a blunderbuss
I am! I forgot to thank you, which I do, with all my heart."

"Ah!" sighed the mature woman, as her guest finally departed, "I'd take all his pains for the
possibilities of his joys."

Ella had not been mistaken in thinking that she detected a trace of recklessness in Clancy's
manner. He had been compelled to believe that Mara was in truth lost to him; that her will
and pride would prove stronger than her heart. Indeed, he went so far as to believe that her
heart, as far as he was concerned, was not giving her very much trouble.

"I fear she has become so morbid and warped by the malign influences that have surrounded her
from infancy," he had thought, "that she cannot love as I love. My best hope now is, that when
Bodine begins to show his game more clearly, she will remember my words. It's horrible to think
that she may develop into a woman like Mrs. Hunter. Until this evening, I have always believed
there was a sweet, womanly soul imprisoned in her bosom, but now I don't know what to think.
I'll go off to the mountains on the pretence of a fishing excursion, and get my balance again."

The following morning had been spent in preparations, and the afternoon, as we have seen, found
him at Mrs. Willoughby's. His sore heart and bitter mood were solaced by Miss Ainsley's unmistakable
welcome. He knew he did not care for her in any deep and lasting sense, and he much doubted
whether her interest in him was greater than that which she had bestowed upon others in the
past. But she diverted his thoughts, flattered the self-love which Mara had wounded so ruthlessly,
and above all fascinated him by her peculiar beauty and intellectual brilliancy.

"Why are you going away?" she asked reproachfully, when they were seated on the balcony.

"Oh, I've been working hard. I'm going off to the mountains to fish and rest."

"I hope you'll catch cold, and come back again soon."

"What a disinterested friend!"

"You are thinking only of yourself; why shouldn't I do likewise?"

"No, I'm thinking of you."

"Of course, at this minute. You'd be apt to think of a lamp-post if you were looking at it."

"Please don't put out the sunshine with your brilliancy."

"Ironical, too! What is the matter to-day?"

"What penetration! Reveal your intuitions. Have I failed in business, or been crossed in love?"

"The latter, I fancy."

"Well, then, how can I better recover peace of mind and serenity than by going a-fishing? You
know what Izaak Walton says--"

"Oh, spare me, please, that ancient worthy! You are as cold-blooded as any fish that you'll
catch. If I find it stupid in Charleston I'll go North."

"That threat shakes my very soul. I promise to come back in a week or ten days."

"Or a month or so," she added, looking hurt.

"Come, my good friend," he said, laughing. "We're too good fellows, as you wished we should
be, to pretend to any forlornness over a parting of this kind. You will sleep as sweetly and
dreamlessly as if you had never seen Owen Clancy, and I will write you a letter, such as a
man would write to a man, telling you of my adventures. If I don't meet any I'll bring some
about--get shot by the moonlighters, save a mountain maid from drowning in a trout pool, or
fall into the embrace of a black bear."

"The mountain maid, you mean."

"Did I? Well, your penetration passes bounds."

"You may go, if you will write the letter. There must be no dime-novel stories in it, no drawing
on your imagination. It shall be your task to make interesting just what you see and do."

"Please add the twelve labors of Hercules."

"No trifling. I'm in earnest, and put you on your mettle in regard to that letter. Unless you
do your best, your friendship is all a pretence. And remember what you said about its being
a letter to a man. If you begin in a conventional way, as if writing to a lady, I'll burn it
without reading."

"Agreed. Good-by, old fellow--beg pardon, Miss Ainsley."

She laughed and said, "I like that; good-by." And she gave him a warm, soft hand, in a rather
lingering clasp.

When he was gone she murmured softly, "Yes, he has a chance."

CHAPTER XXVI

ELLA'S CRUMB OF COMFORT

Ella walked up Meeting Street in a frame of mind differing widely from the complacent mood
in which she sought Mrs. Willoughby's residence. The unexpected had again happened, and to
her it seemed so strange, so very remarkable, that she should have met Mr. Houghton once more
without the slightest intention, or even expectation, on her part, that she was perplexed and
troubled. What did it mean?

In matters purely personal, and related closely to our own interests, we are prone to give
almost a superstitious significance to events which come about naturally enough. It was not
at all strange that Houghton should have been strongly and agreeably impressed by Ella from
the first; and that he should happen to call at the same hour that she did, would have been
regarded by her as a very ordinary coincidence, had not the case been her own. Since it was
her own, she was almost awed by the portentous interview from which she had just escaped. The
inexperienced girl found her cherished ideas in respect to young Houghton completely at fault.
She had sighed that she could not meet him without restraint or embarrassment, for, as she
had assured herself, "It would be such fun." She had supposed that she could laugh at him and
with him indefinitely--that he would be a source of infinite jest and amusement. He had banished
all these illusions in a few brief moments. How could she make sport of a man who had coupled
her name with that of his dead mother? His every glance, word, and tone expressed sincere respect
and admiration, and, she had to admit to herself, something more. She was so sincere herself,
so unsullied, so lacking in the callousness often resulting from much contact with the world,
that it seemed to her that it would be a profanation henceforth to regard him as the butt of
even the innocent ridicule of which she was capable. Yet in all her perplexity and trouble
there was a confused exhilaration and a glad sense of power.

"To think that I, little Ella Bodine, a baker by trade," she thought, "should have inspired
that big fellow to talk as he did! He is apology embodied, and seems far more afraid of me
than he was of that great bully on the street." And she bent her head to conceal a laugh of
exultation.

Then she remembered her father, and her face grew troubled. "I shall have to tell him," she
murmured, "and then the old scene will be enacted over again. A plague on that old shadow of
the war! If I were a man I'd fight it out and then shake hands."

Soon after reaching home she heard her father's crutches on the sidewalk, and ran down to meet
him. In accordance with her custom, she took away one crutch, and supported him to a chair
in the parlor. He kissed her fondly, and remarked, "You look a little pale, Ella."

"I feel pale, papa. I've something to tell you, and you must listen patiently and sensibly.
I've met Mr. Houghton again."

The veteran's face darkened instantly, but he waited till she explained further.

"Now see how you begin to look," she resumed. "You are judging me already. You can't be even
fair to your own child."

"It would rather seem that you are judging me, Ella."

"Oh, bother it all!" she exclaimed. "I wish I could be simple and natural in this affair, for
I was so embarrassed and constrained that I fear I acted like a fool. Well, I'll tell you how
it happened. After lunch I asked Cousin Sophy if it was not time for me to make my party call
on Mrs. Willoughby, and she said it was. I found that Mrs. Willoughby was expecting callers.
We chatted a few minutes, and then others came, Mr. Houghton among them. I no more expected
to meet him than I expected to meet you there. After shaking hands with Mrs. Willoughby he
came to me in the back parlor instantly, and drew up a chair so that I could not escape unless
I jumped over him. He began with such funny speeches that I got laughing, as much from nervousness
as anything else, for I'd been so warned against him that I couldn't be myself."

"You shall not go to Mrs. Willoughby's again," said her father, decidedly.

"Now please listen till I'm all through. He soon saw that I did not want to laugh, and stopped
his nonsense. He wanted to become acquainted, friendly, you know; and finally I had to tell
him that it couldn't be--that I must be governed by your wishes."

"Ah, that was my dear, good, sensible girl!"

"No, papa, I don't feel sensible at all. On the contrary, I have a mean, absurd feeling--just
as if I had gone to Mrs. Willoughby's and slapped a child because it was a Northern child."

He laughed at this remark, for she unconsciously gave the impression that she had been more
repellant than had actually been true. He soon checked himself, however, and said gravely,
"Ella, you take these things too seriously."

"No, papa, it seems to me that it is you and Cousin and Mara who take these things too seriously.
What harm has that young fellow ever done any of us?"

"He could do me an immense deal of harm if you gave him your thoughts, and became even friendly.
I should be exceedingly unhappy."

"Oh, well! that isn't possible--I mean, that we should become friendly. I certainly won't permit
him to speak to me in the streets, although I spoke to him once in the street. Oh, I'm going
to tell you everything now!" and she related the circumstances of her first meeting with Houghton.

"All this is very painful to me," her father said, with clouded brow. "But, as you say, it
has come about without intention on your part. I am glad you have told me everything, for now
I can better guard you from future mischances. My relations to this young man's father are
such that it would make it very disagreeable, indeed, positively unendurable, if his son should
seek your society. You should also remember that Mr. Houghton would be as bitterly hostile
to any such course on his son's part as I am. Your pride, apart from my wishes, should lead
you to repel the slightest advance."

"I reckon your wishes will have the most influence, papa. I have too strong a sense of justice
to punish the son on account of his father."

"You cannot separate them, Ella. Think of our own relation. What touches one touches the other."

"Well, papa, it's all over, and I've told you everything. Since I'm not to go to Mrs. Willoughby's
any more, there is little probability that I shall meet him again, except in the street. If
he bows to me, I shall return the courtesy with quiet dignity, for he has acted like a gentleman
toward me, and, for the sake of my own self-respect, I must act like a lady toward him. If
he seeks to talk to me, I shall tell him it is forbidden, and that will end it, for he is too
honorable to attempt anything clandestine."

"I'm not sure of that."

"I am, papa. He wouldn't be such an idiot, for he understands me well enough to know what would
be the result of that kind of thing. But he isn't that kind of a man."

"How should you know what kind of a man he is?"

"Oh, Heaven has provided us poor women with intuitions!"

"True, to a certain extent, but the rule is proved by an awful lot of exceptions."

"Perhaps if they were studied out, inclinations rather than intuitions were followed."

"Well, my dear, we won't discuss these vague questions. Your duty is as simple and clear as
mine is. Do as you have promised, and all will be well. I must now dress for dinner." And kissing
her affectionately, he went up to his room.

She took his seat, and looked vacantly out of the window, with a vague dissatisfaction at heart.
Unrecognized fully as yet, the great law of nature, which brings to each a distinct and separate
existence, was beginning to operate. As she had said to Mara, vital interests were looming
up, new experiences coming, of which she could no more think his thoughts than he hers.

Her face was a little clouded when she sat down to dinner, and she observed Mrs. Bodine looking
at her keenly. Instinctively she sought to conceal her deeper feelings, and to become her mirthful
self.

"You have not told me about your call yet," the old lady remarked.

"Well, I felt that papa should have the first recital. I met again the son of that old--ahem!--Mr.
Houghton, and I have begun to ostracize him."

"Ella," said her father, almost sternly, "do not speak in that way. Our feelings are strong,
sincere, and well-grounded."

"There, papa, I did not mean to reflect lightly upon them. Indeed, I was not thinking of them,
but of Mr. Houghton."

"Oh, Cousin Hugh! let the child talk in her own natural way. She wouldn't scratch one of your
crutches with a pin, much less hurt you."

"Forgive me, Ella," he said, "I misunderstood you."

"Yes, in the main, papa, but to be frank, I don't enjoy this ostracizing business, and I hope
I won't have any more of it to do."

"There is no reason why you should. Cousin Sophy, there should be people enough in Charleston
for Ella to visit without the chance of meeting Mr. Houghton, or any of his ilk."

"So there are. I'll manage that. Well, Ella, how did you set about ostracizing young Houghton?"
And the old lady began to laugh.

"It's no laughing matter," said Ella, shaking her head ruefully. "He was frank and polite and
respectful as any young gentleman would be under similar circumstances, and he wanted to become
better acquainted, call on me, I suppose, and all that, but I had to tell him virtually that
he was an objectionable person."

"I would rather this subject should not be discussed any further," said her father gravely.

"So would I," Ella added. "Papa and I have settled the matter, and Mr. Houghton is to recede
below the horizon."

The old lady thought that when Ella was alone with her she would get all the details of the
interview, but she was mistaken. The girl not only grew more and more averse to speaking of
Houghton, but she also felt that what he had said so frankly and sincerely to her was not a
proper theme for gossip, even with kindly old Mrs. Bodine, and that a certain degree of loyalty
was due to him, as well as to her father and cousin.

The captain had some writing on hand that night, and Ella read aloud to her cousin till it
was time to retire. Apparently the evening passed uneventfully away; yet few recognize the
eventful hours of their lives. A subtle and mysterious change was taking place in the girl's
nature which in time she would recognize. More than once she murmured, "How can I be hostile
to him? He said he could no more do me wrong, even in his thoughts, than think evil of his
dead mother. He said he would be better if I were his friend, and he is as good-hearted this
minute as I am. Yet I must treat him as if he were not fit to be spoken to. Well, I reckon
it will hurt me as much as it does him. There's some comfort in that."

CHAPTER XXVII

RECOGNIZED AS LOVER

It was inevitable that Mara should pay the penalty of being at variance with nature and her
own heart. The impulses of youth had been checked and restrained. Instead of looking forward,
like Ella, she was turning ever backward, and drawing her inspiration from the past, and a
dead, hopeless past, at that. It fell upon her like a shadow. All its incentive tended toward
negation, prompting her to frown on changes, progress, and the hopefulness springing up in
many hearts. The old can hug their gloom in a sort of complacent misanthropy; the young cannot.
If they are unhappy they chafe, and feel in their deepest consciousness that something is wrong.
Mara laid the blame chiefly upon Clancy, believing that, if he had taken the course adopted
by Captain Bodine, she could have been happy with him in an attic. His words, at their interview,
were not the only causes of her intense indignation and passion. Although she was incensed
to the last degree, that he should charge Captain Bodine with such "preposterous" motives and
intentions, she was also aware that her fierce struggles with her own heart, at the time, distracted
and confused her. She could not maintain the icy demeanor she had resolved upon.

Left to herself, the long afternoon and evening of the following day, she had time for many
second thoughts. She was compelled to face in solitude the hard problems of her life. Anger
died out, and its support was lost. She had driven away the only man she loved, or could ever
love, and she had used language which he could never forget, or be expected to forgive. The
more she thought of his motive in seeking the interview, the more perplexed and troubled she
became. As now in calmer mood she recalled his words and manner, she could not delude herself
with the belief that he came only in his own behalf, or that he was prompted by jealousy. She
remembered the grim frankness with which he said virtually that he had nothing to hope from
her, not even tolerance. She almost writhed under the fact that he had again compelled her
to believe that, however mistaken, he was sincere and straightforward, that he truly thought
that Bodine was lover rather than friend.

She would not, could not, imagine that this was true, and yet she groaned aloud, "He has destroyed
my chief solace. I was almost happy with my father's friend, and was coming to think of him
almost as a second father. Now, when with him I shall have a miserable self-consciousness,
and a disposition to interpret his words and manner in a way that will do him hateful wrong.
Oh, what is there for me to look forward to? What is the use of living?"

These final words indicated one of Mara's chief needs. She craved some motive, some powerful
incentive, which could both sustain and inspire. Mere existence, with its ordinary pleasures
and interests, did not satisfy her at all. Clancy's former question in regard to her devotion
to the past and the dead, "What goodwill it do?" haunted her like a spectre. He had again made
the dreary truth more clear, that there was nothing in the future to which she could give the
strong allegiance of her soul. She would work for nothing, suffer for nothing, hope for nothing,
except her daily bread. As she said, the friendship of Bodine was but a solace, great indeed,
but inadequate to the deep requirements of a nature like hers. She knew she was leading a dual
life--cold, reserved, sternly self-restrained outwardly, yet longing with passionate desire
for the love she had rejected, and, since that was impossible, for something else, to which
she could consecrate her life, with the feeling that it was worth the sacrifice. If she had
been brought up in the Roman Catholic religion, she might have been led to the austere life
of a nun. But, in her morbid condition, she was incapable of understanding the wholesome faith,
the large, sweet liberty of those who remain closely allied to humanity in the world, yet purifying
and saving it, by the sympathetic tenderness of Him who had "compassion on the multitude."
She had still much to learn in the hard school of experience.

The next day, Ella was nothing like so voluble as usual. Little frowns and moments of deep
abstraction took the place of the mirthful smiles of the day before. Nevertheless, her strong
love for Mara led her to speak quite freely of her experience during her call at Mrs. Willoughby's.
As Mara's closest friend, she felt that reticence was a kind of disloyalty. It was also true
that out of the abundance of her heart she was prone to speak. At the same time, the belief
grew stronger hourly that she had a secret which she had not revealed, and could not reveal
to any one. The more she thought over Houghton's words and manner, the more sure she became
that his interest in her was not merely a passing fancy. Maidenly reserve, however, forbade
even a hint of what might seem to others a conceited and indelicate surmise. She therefore
gave only the humorous side of her meeting with Houghton again, and laughed at Mara's vexation.
So far from being afraid of her friend, she rather enjoyed shocking her. At last she said,
"There, Mara, don't take it so to heart. Papa says I must ostracize him, and so Goth and Vandal
he becomes--the absurd idea!"

"Your father would not require you to do anything absurd."

"No, not what was absurd to him; but he does not know Mr. Houghton any more than you do. It's
not only absurd, but it's wrong, from my point of view."

"Oh, Ella, I'm sorry you feel so different from the rest of us."

"Why do you feel different from so many others, Mara? It isn't to please this or that one,
or because you have been told to think or to feel thus and so. You have your views and convictions
because you are Mara Wallingford, and not someone else. Am I made of putty any more than you
are, sweetheart?"

Her words were like a stab to Mara, for the thought flashed into her mind, "I have required
that Clancy should be putty under my will." Ella, in her simple common-sense, often made remarks
which disturbed Mara's cherished belief that she was right and Clancy all wrong.

As a very secondary matter of interest to her, Ella at last began to speak of Clancy and Miss
Ainsley. "If ever a girl courted a man with her eyes that feminine riddle courts Mr. Clancy.
I don't think I ever could be so far gone as to look at a man as she does at him, unless I
was engaged."

"How does he look at her?" Mara asked with simulated indifference.

"Oh, there's some freemasonry between them, probably an engagement or an understanding! She
expostulated against his going away as if she had the right. I don't think he cares for her
as I would wish a man to care for me, for there was a humorous, half-reckless gleam in his
eyes. It may be all natural enough though," she added musingly. "I don't believe Miss Ainsley
could inspire an earnest, reverent love. A man wouldn't associate her in his thoughts with
his dead mother."

"What a strange expression! What put it into your mind?"

"Oh," replied Ella hastily, and flushing a little, "I've been told that Mr. Clancy's parents
are dead! A plague on them both, and all people that I can't understand--I don't mean the dead
Clancys, but these two who are fooling like enough. You should be able to interpret Clancy
better than I, for Cousin Sophy says you were once very good friends."

"I cannot remain the friend of any one who is utterly out of sympathy with all that I believe
is right and dignified."

"Well, Mara, forgive me for saying it, but Mr. Clancy may have had convictions also."

"Undoubtedly," replied Mara coldly, "but there can be no agreeable companionship between clashing
minds."

"No, I suppose not," said Ella, laughing; "not if each insists that both shall think exactly
alike. It would be like two engines meeting on the same track. They must both back out, and
go different ways."

"Well, I've back out," Mara remarked almost sternly.

"That's like you, Mara dear. Well, well, I hope the war will be over some day. By the way,
papa told me to tell you that he was busy last evening, but that he would call this afternoon
for a breathing with you on the Battery."

At the usual hour the veteran appeared. Mara's greeting was outwardly the same; nevertheless,
Clancy's words haunted her, and her old serene unconsciousness was gone. Now that her faculties
were on the alert, she soon began to recognize subtle, unpremeditated indications of the light
in which Bodine had begun to regard her, and a sudden fear and repugnance chilled her heart.
"Was Clancy right after all?" she began to ask herself in a sort of dread and presentiment
of trouble. Instinctively, and almost involuntarily, she grew slightly reserved and distant
in manner, ceasing to meet his gaze in her former frank, affectionate way. With quick discernment
he appreciated the change, and thought, "She is not ready yet, and, indeed, may never be ready."
His manner, too, began to change, as a cloud gradually loses something of its warmth of color.
Mara was grateful, and in her thoughts paid homage to his tact and delicacy.

"Mara," he said, "has Ella told you of her experiences at Mrs. Willoughby's?"

"Yes, quite fully. I should think, however, from her words that you were more truly her confidant."

"Yes, she has acted very honorably, just as I should expect she would, and yet I am anxious
about her. I wish she sympathized with us more fully in our desire to live apart from those
who are inseparable in our thoughts from the memory of 'all our woes,' as Milton writes."

"I have often expressed just this regret to Ella; but she loves us all, and especially you,
so dearly that I have no anxiety about her action."

"No, Mara, not her action; I can control that: but I should be sorry indeed if she became interested
in this young man. There is often a perversity about the heart not wholly amenable to reason."

Poor Mara thought she knew the truth of this remark if any one did, nor could she help fancying
that her companion had himself in mind when he spoke.

"Young Houghton," he resumed, "is beginning to make some rather shy, awkward advances, as if
to secure my favor--a very futile endeavor as you can imagine. My views are changing in respect
to remaining in his father's employ. The grasping old man would monopolize everything. I believe
he would impoverish the entire South if he could, and I don't feel like remaining a part of
his infernal business-machine."

"I don't wonder you feel so!" exclaimed Mara warmly. "I don't like to think of your being there
at all."

"That settles it then," said Bodine quietly. "It would not be wise or honorable for me to act
hastily. I must give Mr. Houghton proper notification, but I shall at once begin to seek other
employment."

Mara was embarrassed and pained by such large deference to her views, and her spirits grew
more and more depressed with the conviction that Clancy was right. But she had been given time
to think, and soon believed that her best, her only course, was to ignore that phase of the
captain's regard, and to teach him, with a delicacy equal to his own, that it could never be
accepted.

"Moreover," resumed Bodine, "apart from my duty to Mr. Houghton--and I must be more scrupulous
toward him than if he were my best friend--I owe it to Ella and my cousin not to give up the
means of support, if I can honorably help it, until I secure something else. Houghton has held
to our agreement both in spirit and letter, and I cannot complain of him as far as I am concerned."

"I have confidence in your judgment, Captain, and I know you will always be guided by the most
delicate sense of honor."

"I hope so, Mara; I shall try to be, but with the best endeavor we often make mistakes. To
tell the truth I am more anxious about Ella than myself. This young Houghton is, I fear, a
rather hair-brained fellow. I've no doubt that he is sincere and well-meaning enough as rich
and indulged young men of his class go, but he appears to me to be impetuous, and inclined
to be reckless in carrying out his own wishes. Ella, in her inexperience, has formed far too
good an opinion of him."

"Well, Captain, I wouldn't worry about it. Ella is honest as the sunshine. They have scarcely
more than met, and she will be guided by you. This episode will soon be forgotten."

"Yes, I hope so; I think so. I shall count on your influence, for she loves you dearly."

"I know," was the rather sad reply, "but Ella does not think and feel as I do. I wish she could
become interested in some genuine Southern man."

"That will come in time, all too soon for me, I fear," he said, with a sigh, "but I must accept
the fact that my little bird is fledged, and may soon take flight. It will be a lonely life
when she is gone."

"She may not go far," Mara answered gently, "and she may enrich you with a son, instead of
depriving you of a daughter."

He shook his head despondently, and soon afterward accompanied her to her home. She knew there
was something like an appeal to her in his eyes as he pressed her hand warmly in parting. By
simply disturbing the blind confidence in which she had accepted and loved her father's friend,
Clancy had given her sight. She saw the veteran in a new character, and she was distressed
and perplexed beyond measure. Scarcely able, yet compelled to believe the truth, she asked
herself all the long night, "How can I bear this new trouble?"

CHAPTER XXVIII

"HEAVEN SPEED YOU THEN"

Aun' Sheba and Vilet entered at the usual hour the following day. The girls smiled and nodded
in an absent sort of way, and then the old woman thought they seemed to forget all about her.
She also observed that they were not so forward with the work as customary, and she watched
them wonderingly yet shrewdly. Suddenly she sprang up, exclaiming, "Lor bress you, Missy Ella,
dat de secon' time you put aw-spice in dat ar dough."

Both the girls started nervously, and Ella began to laugh.

"Missy Mara, you fergits some cake in de oben from de way it smell," and Aun' Sheba drew out
cookies as black as herself instead of a delicate brown.

Mara looked at them ruefully, and then said, "I must make some more, that's all." "Wot's de
matter wid you bofe, honeys?" the old woman asked kindly.

"Politics," Ella blurted out.

"Polytics! No won'er you'se bofe off de handle. Dere's been only two times wen I couldn't stan'
Unc. nohow. De fust an' wust was wen he get polytics on de brain, an' belebed dat ole guv'ner
Moses was gwine ter lead de culud people to a promis' lan'. I alus tole him dat his Moses 'ud
lead him into a ditch, an' so he did. De secon' time was wen he got sot on, but you knows all
'bout dat. You'se bofe too deep fer me. How you git into polytics I doan see nohow."

"There, Aun' Sheba, don't you mind Ella's nonsense. We're no more into politics than you are."

"You'se inter sump'in den."

"Yes," said Ella, "we're still carrying on the war."

"Please don't talk so, Ella."

"Oh, Mara! I must have my nonsense. You've got the 'storied past'--that's how it's phrased,
isn't it?--to sustain you, and I've only my nonsense."

"Well, puttin' in aw-spice double is nonsense, shuah nuff," said Aun' Sheba, looking at the
girl keenly. "Wot you want spicin' so fer all't once, Missy Ella? You peart, an' saucy as eber.
I ony wish I could see Missy Mara lookin' like you."

"You are getting old and blind, Aun' Sheba. I have a secret sorrow gnawing at my 'inards,'
as you term those organs which keep people awake o' nights, gazing at the moon."

"Yes, honey, Aun' Sheba gittin' bery ole an' bery blin', but she see dat dere's sump'in out
ob kilter wid de inards ob you bofe. Well, well, I s'pose it's none ob de ole woman's business."

"Ann' Sheba," cried Ella, with an exaggerated sigh, "if you could mend matters I'd come to
you quicker than to any one else, you dear old soul! Well now, to tell you the honest truth,
there isn't very much the matter with me, and there's a certain doctor that's going to cure
me just as sure as this batter (holding up a spoonful) is going to be cake in ten minutes."

"Who dat?"

"Doctor Time--oh, get out!" At this instant an irate bumble-bee darted in, and Ella, in a spasmodic
effort of self-defence, threw the spoon at it, and both went flying out of the window. The
girl sat down half-crying, half-laughing in her vexation, while Aun' Sheba shook with mirth
in all her ample proportions.

"Dat ar cake's gwine to be dough for eber mo', Missy Ella," she said. "I'se feerd you'se case
am bery serus. Yit I worries mo' 'bout Missy Mara. Heah now, honey, you jes dun beat out. You
sit down an' Missy Ella an' me'll finish up in a jiffy. I reckon Missy Ella ony got a leetle
tantrum dis mawnin, but you'se been a wuckin' an' tinkin' too hard dis long time."

"Yes, Aun' Sheba," cried Ella, "that's the trouble. Let's you and I take the business out of
her hands for a time, and make her a silent partner."

"She too silent now. Bofe oh you gittin' ter be silent par'ners. In de good ole times I'd heah
you chatterin' as I come up de stars, an' to-day you was bofe right smart ways off from dis
kitchen in you mins. Mum, mum, tinkin' deep, bofe ob you. Eysters ud make a racket long ob
you uns dis mawnin'."

"There, Aun' Sheba," said Mara, kindly, "don't you worry about us. This is July, and in August
we'll take a rest. You deserve and need it as much as either of us. I'll get well and strong
then, and you know it makes people worse to tell them they don't look well and all that."

Aun' Sheba gave a sort of dissatisfied grunt, but she helped the girls through with their tasks
in her own deft way, and departed with Vilet, who was always very quiet and shy except when
at home.

"Well," said Ella, giving herself a little shake, when they were alone, "I'm going to get over
my nonsense at once."

"What's troubling you, Ella?"

"Oh, I hardly know myself. What's troubling you? We both seem out of sorts. Do let us be sensible
and jolly. Now if we both had a raging toothache we'd have some excuse for melancholy. Good-by,
dear, I'll be up with the lark to-morrow, and we'll make a lark of our work;" and she started
homeward, with her cherry lips sternly compressed in her resolution to be her old mirthful
self. In the energy of her purpose she began to walk faster and faster. "There now, Ella Bodine,"
she muttered, "since it's your duty to ostracize and bake, ostracize and bake, and be done
with your ridiculous fancies." And she swiftly turned the corner of a street, as if, under
the inspiration of a great purpose, she was entering upon a new and wiser course. The result
was, she nearly ran over George Houghton. Looking up, she saw him standing, hat in hand, with
a broad, glad smile on his face.

"You almost equal that express-wagon," he said. "Are you going for the doctor?"

Her mouth twitched nervously, but she managed to say, "Good-morning, Mr. Houghton, I'm in haste,"
and on she went. He saw her head go down. Was she laughing or crying? The latter possibility
brought him to her side instantly.

"Are you in trouble?" he asked very kindly. "Isn't there something--oh, I see you are laughing
at me," and his tones proved that his feelings were deeply hurt.

Her mirth ceased at once. "No, Mr. Houghton," she replied, looking up at him with frank directness,
"I was not laughing at you, but I could not help laughing at what you said. I'm in no trouble,
nor shall I be if--if--well, you know what I told you. We must be strangers, you know," and
she went on again as if her feet were winged.

"I don't know anything of the kind," he muttered, as he turned on his heel and slowly pursued
his way to his father's counting-rooms. Entering he paused an instant and looked grimly at
Bodine, whose head was bent over his writing. "I'll tackle you next, old gentleman," was his
thought.

Punctually to a minute he called on Mrs. Willoughby when the week had expired. She looked into
his resolute face and surmised before he spoke that time and reflection had not inclined him
to a prudent withdrawal from a very doubtful suit. Nevertheless she said: "Well, you've had
a little time to think, and you probably see now that your wisest course will be to give up
this little affair utterly."

"Pardon me, Mrs. Willoughby, I've had an age in which to think, and it's not a little affair
to me. I did not quite understand myself when I last saw you--it was all so new, strange, and
heavenly. But I understand myself now. Ella Bodine shall be my wife unless she finally rejects
me, unless she herself makes me sure that it's of no use to try. What's more, it will take
years to prove this. As long as she does not belong to another I'll never give up."

"She belongs to her father."

"No, not in this sense. She has the right of every American girl to choose her husband."

"Do you mean to defy her father?"

"No, I mean to go to him like a gentleman, and ask permission to pay my addresses to his daughter.
I mean to do this before I say one word of love to her."

"Since you are so resolved upon your course you do not need any more advice from me."

"I don't mean that at all. Isn't this the right, honorable course?"

"Oh, your royalty wishes me to applaud your decrees and decisions," she said laughing.

"Now please don't be hard on me, Mrs. Willoughby. I've followed your advice with all my might
for a week."

"Done nothing with all your might?"

"Yes, and you couldn't have given me a harder task."

"Are you of age?"

"Yes, I am. I'm twenty-two, however immature I may seem to you."

"Miss Bodine is not of age."

"Well, I'll wait till she is."

"Wouldn't that be better? Wait till she is of age, and more capable of judging and acting for
herself. Time may soften her father's feelings, and your father's also, for, believe me, you
are going to have as much trouble at home as with Captain Bodine, that is, supposing that Ella
would listen to your suit."

"And while I'm idly biting my nails through the creeping years some level-headed Southerner
will quietly woo and win her. I would deserve to lose her, should I take such a course."

"You certainly would have to take that risk; but perhaps you will incur greater risks by too
hasty action."

"Be sincere with me now, Mrs. Willoughby. I don't believe you women like timid, pusillanimous
men. How could I appear otherwise to Miss Bodine if I should withdraw, like a growling bear
into winter quarters, there to hibernate indefinitely? The period wouldn't be life to me, scarcely
tolerable existence. What could she know about my motives and feelings? I tell you my love
is as sacred as my faith in God. I'm proud of it, rather than ashamed. I wish her to know it,
no matter what the result may be, and I don't care if all the world knows it, too."

"You mean to tell your father then?"

"Certainly, at the proper time."

"Suppose you find him utterly opposed to it all?"

"I do not think I shall; not when he sees my happiness is at stake. He may fume over it for
a time, but when he comes to know Ella she'll disarm him. Why, it's just as clear to me as
that I see you, that she could make the old gentleman happier than he has been for over a quarter
of a century."

"My poor young friend! I wish I could share in your sanguine feelings."

"Oh, I'm not so very sanguine about her. What she will do worries me far more than what the
old people will do."

"Well, you are right there. The old people are the outworks, she the citadel, which you can
never capture unless she chooses to surrender."

"That's true, but I don't believe she ever would surrender to a man who was afraid to approach
even the outworks."

Mrs. Willoughby laughed softly as she admitted, "Perhaps you are right."

"If I'm not, my whole manhood is at fault," he replied earnestly. "Please tell me, haven't
I decided on the right, honorable course--on what would seem honorable to Captain Bodine and
to Ella also?"

"Yes, if you will act now you can take no other."

"Well, won't you please approve of it?"

"Mr. Houghton, I'm not going to be timid and pusillanimous either. Since you are of age, and
will take a perfectly honorable course, I will stand by you as a friend. I will still counsel
you, if you so wish, for I fear that your troubles have only begun."

"I thank you from my heart," he said, seizing her hand and pressing it warmly. "I do need and
wish your counsel, for I have very little tact. I can sail a boat better than I can manage
an affair like this."

"Will you make me one solemn promise?"

"Yes, if I can."

"Then pledge me your word that you will not lose your temper with either Captain Bodine or
your father."

"Oh, I think I can easily do that," he said good-humoredly.

"You don't know, you can't imagine, how you may be tried."

"Well, it's a sensible thing you ask, and I've sense enough to know it. I pledge you my word.
If I break it, it will be because I'm pushed beyond mortal endurance."

"Mr. Houghton," she said, almost sternly, "you must not break it, no matter what is said or
what happens. You would jeopardize everything if you did. You might lose Ella's respect."

He drew a long breath. "You make me feel as if I were going into a very doubtful battle," he
said thoughtfully.

"It is a very doubtful battle. It certainly will be a hard, and probably a long one, and you
will lose it if you don't keep cool."

"I can be very firm, I suppose."

"Yes, as firm and decided as you please, as long as you are quiet and gentlemanly in your words.
Let me say one thing more," she added, very gravely. "If you enter on this affair, and then,
in any kind of weakness or fickleness, give it up, I shall despise you, and so will all in
this city who know about it. Count the cost. I'm too true a Southerner to look at you again
if you trifle with a Southern girl. Your father will offer you great inducements to abandon
this folly, as he will term it."

He flushed deeply, but only said, in quiet emphasis, "If I ever give up, except for reasons
satisfactory to you, I shall despise myself far more than you can despise me."

"And you give me your word that you will keep your temper to the very end?"

"Yes, Heaven helping me, I will."

"Heaven speed you then, my friend."

CHAPTER XXIX

CONSTERNATION

Young Houghton was like a high-mettled steed, from which the curb had been removed. His temperament,
even more than the impatience of youth, led him to chafe at delay, and Ella appeared so lovely,
so exactly to his mind, that he had a nervous dread lest others should equally appreciate her,
and forestall his effort to secure her affection. He resolved, therefore, that not an hour
should be lost, and so went directly back to his father's counting-rooms.

Bodine was writing as usual at his desk, and Houghton looked at him with an apprehension thus
far unknown in his experience. But he did not hesitate. "Captain Bodine," he said, with a little
nervous tremor in his voice, "will you be so kind as to grant me a private interview this evening?"

The veteran looked at him coldly as he asked, "May I inquire, sir, your object in seeking this
interview?"

"I will explain fully when we are alone. I cannot here, but will merely say that my motives
are honorable, as you yourself will admit."

Bodine contracted his brows in painful thought for a moment. "I may as well have it out with
him at once," was his conclusion. "Very well, sir, I will remain after the office is closed,"
he said frigidly, then turned to his writing.

George went to his desk in his father's private room, and there was a very grim, set look on
his face also. "I understand you, my future father-in-law," he murmured softly. "You think
you are going to end this affair in half an hour. We'll see."

The afternoon was very warm, and his father said kindly, "Come, George, knock off for to-day.
I'm going home and shall try to get a nap before dinner."

"That's right, father; do so by all means. I have an engagement this evening, so please don't
wait dinner for me." His thought was, "If I'm to keep my temper I can't tackle more than one
the same day; yet I don't believe my father will be obdurate. If I succeed, the time will come
when he'll thank me with all his heart."

Mr. Houghton had no disposition to control his son in small matters, and the young fellow came
and went at his own will. Thus far his frankness and general good behavior had inspired confidence.
His tastes had always inclined to athletic, manly sports, and these are usually at variance
with dissipation of every kind.

The impatient youth had not long to wait. The clerks soon departed, and the colored janitor
entered on his labors. Bodine remained writing quietly until George came and said, "Will you
be so kind as to come to the private office?"

The veteran deliberately put his desk in order, and followed the young man without a word.
There was still an abundance of light in which to see each other's faces, and George observed
that Bodine's expression boded ill. He took a seat in silence, and looked at the flushed face
of the youth coldly and impassively.

"Captain Bodine," George began hesitatingly, "you can make this interview very hard for me,
and I fear you will do so. Yet you are a gentleman, and I wish to act and speak as becomes
one also."

Bodine merely bowed slightly.

"I will use no circumlocution. You have been a soldier, and so will naturally prefer directness.
I wish your permission to pay my addresses to your daughter."

"I cannot grant it."

"Please do not make so hasty a decision, sir. I fear that you are greatly prejudiced against
me, but--"

"No, sir," interrupted Bodine, "I am not prejudiced against you at all. I have my own personal
reasons for taking the ground I do, and it is not necessary to discuss them. I think our interview
may as well end at once."

"Captain Bodine, you will admit that I have acted honorably in this matter. Since your daughter
told me that you were averse to our acquaintance, I have made no effort to see her."

"Certainly, sir, that was right and honorable. Any other course would not have been so."

"It is my purpose to maintain a strictly honorable and straightforward course in this suit."

"Do you mean to say that you will pursue this suit contrary to my wishes?"

"Certainly. There is no law, human or divine, which forbids a man from loving a good woman,
and Miss Bodine is good if any one is."

"How do you propose to carry on this suit?" the captain asked sternly.

"I scarcely know yet, but in no underhand way. I must ask you to inform Miss Bodine of this
interview."

"Suppose I decline to do this?"

"Then I shall make it known to her myself."

"In other words, you defy me."

"Not at all, not in the sense in which you speak. I shall take no action whatever without your
knowledge."

"You must remember that my daughter is not of age."

"I do not dispute your right in the least to control her action till she is, but I shall not
take the risk of losing her by timidity and delay. Others will appreciate her worth as well
as myself. I wish her to know that I love her, and would make her my wife."

"You appear to think that this is all that is essential so far as she is concerned," said Bodine,
in bitter sarcasm.

"You do me wrong, sir," Houghton replied, flushing hotly. "Even if you should give your full
consent, I, better than any one, know that my suit would be doubtful. But it would be hopeless
did I not reveal to her my feelings and purposes."

"If she herself, then, informs you that it is hopeless, that would end the matter?"

"Certainly, after years of patient effort to induce her to think otherwise."

"I do not think you have shown any patience thus far, sir. You have scarcely more than met
her before you enter, recklessly and selfishly, on a 'suit,' as you term it, which can only
bring wretchedness to her and to those who have the natural right to her allegiance and love."

"You do me wrong again, Captain Bodine. I am no more reckless or selfish than any other man
who would marry the girl he loves. By reason of circumstances over which I had no control I
have met Miss Bodine, and she has inspired a sacred love, such as her mother inspired in you.
You can find no serious fault with me personally, and I am not responsible for others. I have
my own life to make or mar, and never to win Miss Bodine would mar it wofully. I am an educated
man and her equal socially, although she is greatly my superior in other respects. I have the
means with which to support her in affluence. I mean only good toward her and you. This is
neither selfishness nor recklessness."

"Have you spoken to Mr. Houghton of your intentions?"

"Not yet, but I shall."

"You will find him as bitterly opposed to it all as I am."

"I think not. I shall be sorry beyond measure if you are right, but it can make no difference."

"You will defy him also, then?"

"I object to the use of that word, Captain Bodine. In availing myself of my inalienable rights
I defy no one."

"Have I no rights in my own child? Your purpose is to rob me as ruthlessly as our homes were
desolated years since."

