GORDON C.--Your theory that the peeking and the scolding noise made by a canary are simply
to show its affection for its friends, and really a sign of pleasure, is very pretty, but we
are not sure it is right. It is true that a canary will not often act in that way when approached
by a stranger, for a new voice frightens it, and makes it shrink into a corner of its cage,
but it will show a great deal of fight, and peck vigorously, when disturbed by a familiar finger.
But either way, if it is loving or enraged, a canary is always the same dear downy little pet,
and deserves the tenderest care and affectionate treatment.

       *       *       *       *       *

A. H. SPEAR.--Peter Minuit--more correctly Minnewit--was born at Wesel, Holland, some time
during the later part of the sixteenth century. He was appointed third Director-General of
New Netherland in 1625--Cornelis May having been the first and William Verhulst the second--and
arrived at Manhattan the following May. To him belongs the honor of having purchased Manhattan
Island from the Indians, as up to this period (1626) the Dutch had possessed it only by right
of occupation. Minuit opened negotiations with the native proprietors, and purchased the entire
island for the Dutch West India Company "for the value of sixty guilders"--about twenty-four
dollars of our present currency. He died at Fort Christiana, Delaware, in 1641.

       *       *       *       *       *

A. L. W., Washington Territory, sends a neat "Wiggle," which we are sorry came too late to
be printed.

       *       *       *       *       *

DORSEY COATE.--Many thanks for your pretty valentine.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARY N. C., Cuba.--The beautiful little moth which flew on your table while you were writing,
and which you inclose, resembles the Deïopeïa bella, which lives on the mouse-ear of our Northern
fields. The size and markings are precisely the same, but the cross-bars on the fore-wings
of the Northern moth are buff, while those of its Cuban cousin are delicate pink.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNA M. M., AND AGNES AND WILLIE, Scotland.--We are very glad to learn from your neatly written
letters that little folks in Scotland derive so much pleasure from reading the "American stories
in YOUNG PEOPLE."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pretty favors are acknowledged from Frederick Helzel, Nicholas P. G., Tillie F. Weishampel,
George H. F., John B. Maxwell, F. L. W., Eddie S., Randall Goodnough, E. G. B., Carrie L. Holman,
Jay H. Maltby, Lollie E. W., Mamie Evans, S. G. McKnight, Bennie B. H., L. S. R., Willie B.
M., T. S. March, F. V. Griffin, Alfred Opdyke, Henry R. C., J. B. Tanner, George N. M., M.
H. V., Mary B. R., Florence E. I., Carrie Pelham, Flora, Ross, and Sallie, Freddie Haggerty.

       *       *       *       *       *

Correct answers to puzzles received from Paul Sterling, G. J. D., Birdie A. Randolph, Mabel
Lowell, Abby H. Vail, Laura B. Wallis, Chester Fernald, William F. B., Nena Crommelin, Amy
S. Turner, Willie H. Spiller, Maggie M. Mather, Georgie M. Hollenbeck, S. V. B., Lillie M.
Jones. John R. Glen, Mary M. Smith, M. Willie, J. Rector, J. M. Wolfe, N. L. Collamor, E. S.
May, Harry C. M., "Phoenix," Belle F., Maud Miller, Chesly B. H., S. Birdie Dorman, Philip
P. Cruger, Dorsey E. C., B. F. H., "Hartley."

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 1.

ENIGMA.

  My first is in cistern, but not in well.
  My second is in write, but not in spell.
  My third is in note, but not in bill.
  My fourth is in factory, not in mill.
  My fifth is in window, but not in door.
  My sixth is in ceiling, not in floor.
  My seventh is in wrong, but not in right.
  My eighth is in dark, but not in light.
  My ninth is in true, but not in false.
  My tenth is in slide, but not in waltz.
  My whole is a large city in the United States.

  W. F. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 2.

GEOGRAPHICAL DOUBLE ACROSTIC.

An island off the coast of Massachusetts. A city in Ireland. A city in Cochin China. A river
in New York State. A city in Italy. One of the United States. A river in the Northwestern United
States. A city in Kentucky. A lake in North America. Answer--a city in the United States, and
the State of which it is the capital.

  SADIE (twelve years).

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 3.

ENIGMA.

  My first is in carriage, but not in gig.
  My second is in false, but not in wig.
  My third is in laughter, but not in mirth.
  My fourth is in girdle, but not in girth.
  My fifth is in sad, but not in merry.
  My sixth is in pear, and also in cherry.
  My whole lies under-ground.

  C. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 4.

WORD SQUARE.

First, a firm, hard substance of dull white color. Second, elliptical. Third, an iron pin.
Fourth, a girl's name.

  WILLIAM F. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 5.

DIAMOND PUZZLE.

A consonant. A beverage. Bright. A part of the head. A consonant.

  M. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 6.

NUMERICAL CHARADE.

  I am composed of 14 letters.
  My 5, 1, 7 is a kind of meat.
  My 11, 12, 6, 8 is dug from the earth.
  My 12, 4, 3 belongs to a boat.
  My 6, 14, 10, 4 is a girl's name.
  My 2, 9, 13, 8 is part of a bird.
  My whole was a great man.

  FANNIE (10 years).

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER TO PUZZLE PICTURE IN No. 14.

S-wine. S-tag; W-easel. G-oats. D-rill. B-ear. B-oar. M-ink. F-ox.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES IN No. 15.

No. 1.

Guitar.

No. 2.

      Z
    P E A
  Z E B R A
    A R T
      A

No. 3.

Franklin.

No. 4.

Photogen and Nycteris.

No. 5.

  G ri P
  R u  E
  A i  R
  N ea R
  T r  Y

Grant, Perry.

No. 6.

=BLUME'S BEAUTIFUL BALLADS=--"Shining Curls of Gold," "Rambling o'er the Hill," "Four-Leaf
Clover," "Buttercups and Daisies," "Pink Domino" Waltz, Dodworth's "Five-step," "Don't Get
Weary" Galop. Each 35c., mailed.

Square 4to, about 800 pages each, beautifully printed on Tinted Paper, embellished with many
Illustrations, bound in Cloth, $1.50 per volume.

The Children's Picture-Book of Sagacity of Animals.

     With Sixty Illustrations by HARRISON WEIR.

The Children's Bible Picture-Book.

     With Eighty Illustrations, from Designs by STEINLE, OVERBECK, VEIT,
     SCHNORR, &c.

The Children's Picture Fable-Book.

     Containing One Hundred and Sixty Fables. With Sixty Illustrations
     by HARRISON WEIR.

The Children's Picture-Book of Birds.

     With Sixty-one Illustrations by W. HARVEY.

The Children's Picture-Book of Quadrupeds and other Mammalia.

     With Sixty-one Illustrations by W. HARVEY.

PERPETUAL MOTION.

Tommy was only ten years of age, but still he was determined to obtain it. At last, one day,
he ran into his father's office in ecstasies, and shouted, "Hurrah! Pop, I've got it!"

"Got what, my son?"

"Perpetual motion!" cried Tommy. "I've been watching it for the last half hour, and it works
bully!" Then grasping "Pop" by the hand, "Come up in the garret and see it."

His father went up, and, sure enough, there was perpetual motion--that is, as long as there
was any life left in the dog and that piece of roast beef hung to his tail.

THE SOAPBOXTICON, OR HOME-MADE MAGIC LANTERN.

Would you like to have a magic lantern? Very well: I will tell you how to make it. In the first
place you must procure a burning-glass, such as you can get at any toy store for a few cents;
or you may, perhaps, have the glass out of an old telescope. You also want a soap box (or any
other kind of square box), a cigar box, and a piece of white muslin or linen as large as a
pocket-handkerchief. Make a hole in the cigar box to fit your magnifying-glass, and put the
glass into it. Now look at Fig. 1, and see how the cigar box is placed inside the soap box.
Stretch the muslin over the opposite side of the soap box (from which, of course, you have
removed the bottom), and tack it to the edges of the box. Put a lighted candle in the cigar
box as represented in the illustration, and if you hold a drawing or a photograph opposite
the glass in the cigar box, it will be reflected on the muslin stretched over the end of the
soap box, and you have a magic lantern.

One thing more. By looking at Fig. 1 you will see that there are two bars and a cross-bar to
hold the picture. These can easily be fixed, and will save you the trouble of holding the picture
in your hand, and will be more steady. By carefully looking at the different drawings, you
will soon see how to make one yourself.

       *       *       *       *       *

=A Brave Princess.=--In one of the Sandwich Islands, in the South Seas, is a volcanic mountain
with a huge lake of ever-burning fire. This was the reputed abode of the goddess Pélé and her
fiery companions, the worship of whom was the central superstition of the islanders. The young
Princess Kapiolani was converted to Christianity through the teaching of the missionaries.
Grieving for the ignorance and misery of her people, she resolved to visit the burning mountain
of Kilauea, and dare the dreaded Pélé to do her worst. There a priestess met her, threatened
her with the displeasure of the goddess if she persisted, and prophesied that she and her followers
would miserably perish. In defiance of this threat, she and her Christian followers went down
to the edge of the burning lake, and, standing erect, she thus spoke: "Jehovah is my God. He
kindled these fires. I fear not Pélé. If I perish by the anger of Pélé, then you may fear the
power of Pélé; but if I trust in Jehovah, and He should save me from the wrath of Pélé, then
you must fear and serve the Lord Jehovah."

CHARADE.

FIRST.

  I am rocked in the arms of the sea,
    Or tossed on the flowing main;
  Then fold my white wings in some peaceful bay,
    And am bound to the earth with a chain.

SECOND.

  There's a fruit with its hue of gold
    From the land of the tropical sun;
  I make it a cooling draught to hold
    To the lips of the thirsty one.

WHOLE.

  With the tread of many feet,
    And the changeless roll of the drum,
  With a deadly volley my foe to greet,
    Mid the flash of steel, I come.