Of animals in another form, the preserved meats of Australia, sent sound across the tropics
to the amount of seventeen thousand tons in 1872, against four tons in 1866, had their use
of instruction to our packers. So with the improved display of agricultural produce from Southern
Russia, our chief competitor in the grain-market. Our reapers and threshers are supplanting,
in Eastern Europe, the ridiculous flails, sickles and straight-handled scythes that figured
at New York in 1853. We have sent the Dacians, Huns and Sarmatians weapons to cut our own commercial
throats. There are more enriching articles of export than wheat, as we must continue to learn.

In turning to other provinces, we find that England was foremost in machinery, the United States,
"the only rival," says a British critic, "from whom we had anything to fear," being feebly
represented, as we were in other respects, thanks to certain irregularities in the management
of our commissioners sufficiently discussed at the time. The British carpets out-shone the
display of any competitor, the influence of her new schools of decorative design being unmistakably
marked.

The Aubusson carpets of France still maintained their position, as did the velvet, faïence,
tapestry, engravings, books, marine photographs, etc. of the same country. Italy made her usual
contribution in the arts. Among the Austrian objects of this class the opals of Hungary were
prominent.

India was unexpectedly complete in her collection: not only her modern industry, but her antiquities,
had abundant specimens.

Much criticism has been expended upon the alleged lavish and indiscriminate distribution of
medals and diplomas at Vienna. But, however numerous the undeserving who obtained them, the
deserving must at the same time have had their share: the shower that fell on the unjust could
not have missed the just. Therefore we note that, despite our slender show, one hundred and
seventy-eight medals for Merit and sixty-nine for Progress, two for the Fine Arts (German Bierstadt
and French Healey) and five for Good Taste, came to America. The National Bureau of Education,
the Lighthouse Board and the State of Massachusetts obtained "Grand Diplomas of Honor" for
documents. The like honor was awarded to the city of Boston and the Smithsonian Institution,
and to four private exhibitors for the more palpable contributions of tool-making machinery,
steam-machinery, mowing-machines and dentistry. This list does not teach us much. The prizes
are, unless awarded with the most intelligent and conscientious precision, valuable chiefly
as advertisements to the recipients, who can earn, and generally have earned, better advertisements
in other shapes.

Thus have the chief powers of Western and Central Europe displayed their mettle in peaceful
tourney. The visor of a young and unknown knight is now barred for the fray. He has, like the
rest in these days of modern chivalry, to be his own herald and blow his own preliminary blast.
It is a tolerably sonorous one. Let the event show that he speaks not through brass alone.

SKETCHES OF INDIA.

III.

Thus we fared leisurely along. We passed Cabul merchants peddling their dried fruit on shaggy-haired
camels; to these succeeded, in more lonesome portions of the road, small groups of Korkas,
wretched remnants of one of the autochthonal families of Central India--even lower in the scale
of civilization than the Gónds, among whom they are found; and to these the richly-caparisoned
elephants of some wealthy Bhopal gentleman making a journey. We lingered long among the marvelous
old Buddhistic topes or tumuli of Sanchi, and I interested my companion greatly in describing
the mounds of the United States, with which I was familiar, and whose resemblance to these
richly-sculptured and variously-ornamented ruins, though rude and far off, was quite enough
to set his active fancy to evolving all manner of curious hypotheses going to explain such
similarity. The whole way, by Sangor, Gharispore, Bhilsa, Sanchi, Sonori, presented us with
the most interesting relics of the past, and the frequent recurrence of the works of the once
prevalent Buddhistic faith continually incited us to new discussions of the yet unsolved question,
Why has Buddha's religion, which once had such entire possession of this people's hearts, so
entirely disappeared from the land?

And, as nothing could be more completely contrasted with the desert asceticism which Buddha's
tenets inculcated than the luxury into which Mohammed's creed has flowered, so nothing could
have more strikingly broken in upon our discussions of the Buddhistic monuments than the view
which we at last obtained of the lovely Mohammedan city of Bhopal. To the south and east ran
a strip of country as barren and heartacheish as if the very rocks and earth had turned Buddhist,
beyond which a range of low rounded hills, not unlike topes, completed the ascetic suggestion.
But, turning from this, we saw Mohammedanism at its very loveliest. Minarets, domes, palaces,
gardens, the towers of the citadel, waters of lovely lakes, all mingled themselves together
in the voluptuous light of the low sun: there was a sense of music, of things that sparkled,
of pearly lustres, of shimmering jewels, of softness, of delight, of luxury. Bhopal looked
over the ragged valley like a sultan from the window of his zenana regarding afar off an unkempt
hermit in his solitude. My companion had arranged for permission to enter the town, and it
was not long ere we were installed in the house of a friend of Bhima Gandharva's, whose guests
we remained during our stay in Bhopal.

On a rock at the summit of a hill commanding this interesting city stands the fort of Fatehgarh,
built by a certain Afghan adventurer, Dost Mohammed Khan, who, in a time when this part of
India must have been a perfect paradise for all the free lances of the East, was so fortunate
as to win the favor of Aurungzebe, and to receive as evidence thereof a certain district in
Malwa. The Afghan seems to have lost no time in improving the foothold thus gained, and he
thus founded the modern district of Bhopal, which was formerly divided between Malwa and Góndwana,
one gate of the town standing in the former and one in the latter country. Dost Mohammed Khan
appears, indeed, to have been not the only adventurer who bettered his fortunes in Bhopal.
It is a curious fact, and one well illustrating the liberality which has characterized much
of the more modern history of the Bhopal government, that no long time ago it was administered
by a regency consisting of three persons--one a Hindu, one a Mohammedan, and the other a Christian.
This Christian is mentioned by Sir John Malcolm as "Shahzed Musseah, or Belthazzar Bourbona"
(by which Sir John means Shahzahad Messiah--a native appellation signifying "the Christian
prince"--or Balthazar of Bourbon), and is described by that officer, to whom he was well known,
as a brave soldier and an able man. He traced his lineage to a certain Frenchman calling himself
John of Bourbon, who in the time of Akbar was high in favor and position at Delhi. His widow,
the princess Elizabeth of Bourbon, still resides at Bhopal in great state, being possessed
of abundant wealth and ranking second only to the Begum. She is the acknowledged head of a
large number of descendants of John of Bourbon, amounting to five or six hundred, who remain
at Bhopal and preserve their faith--having a church and Catholic priest of their own--as well
as the traditions of their ancestry, which, according to their claim, allies them to the royal
blood of France.

No mention of Bhopal can fail to pay at least a hasty tribute in commemoration of the forcible
character and liberal politics of the Begum, who has but of late gone to her account after
a long and sometimes trying connection with the administration of her country's affairs. After
the death of her husband--who was accidentally killed by a pistol in the hands of a child not
long after the treaty with the English in 1818--their nephew, then in his minority, was considered
as the future nawab, and was betrothed to their daughter, the Begum being regent during his
minority. When the time came, with his majority, for the nuptials, the Begum refused to allow
the marriage to take place, for reasons which need not here be detailed. After much dispute
a younger brother of the nephew was declared more eligible, but the Begum still managed in
one way or another to postpone matters, much to his dissatisfaction. An arbitration finally
resulted in placing him on the throne, but his reign was short, and he died after a few years,
leaving the Begum again in practical charge of affairs--a position which she improved by instituting
many wise and salutary reforms and bringing the state of Bhopal to a condition of great prosperity.
The Pearl Mosque (Monti Masjid), which stands immediately in front of the palace, was built
at her instance in imitation of the great cathedral-mosque of Delhi, and presents a charming
evidence of her taste, as well as of the architectural powers still existing in this remarkable
race.

The town proper of Bhopal is enclosed by a much--decayed wall of masonry some two miles in
circuit, within which is a fort, similar both in its condition and material to the wall. Outside
these limits is a large commercial quarter (gunge). The beautiful lake running off past the
town to the south is said to be artificial in its origin, and to have been produced at the
instance of Bho Pal, the minister of King Bohoje, as long ago as the sixth century, by damming
up the waters of the Bess (or Besali) River, for the purpose of converting an arid section
into fertile land. It is still called the Bhopal Tal.

If this were a ponderous folio of travels, one could detail the pleasures and polite attentions
of one's Bhopalese host; of the social utter-pán; of the sprinklings with rose-water; of the
dreamy talks over fragrant hookahs; of the wanderings among bazaars filled with moving crowds
of people hailing from all the ports that lie between Persia and the Góndwana; of the fêtes
where the nautch-girl of Baroda contended in graceful emulation with the nautch-girl of Ulwur,
and the cathacks (or male dancers) with both; of elegantly-perfumed Bhopalese young men; of
the palaces of nobles guarded by soldiers whose accoutrements ranged from the musket to the
morion; of the Moharum, when the Mohammedan celebrates the New Year. But what would you have?
A sketch is a sketch. We have got only to the heart of India: the head and the whole prodigious
eastern side are not yet reached. It is time one were off for Jhansi.

At Bioura we encountered modern civilization again in the shape of the south-west branch of
the Grand Trunk road, which leads off from the main stem at Agra. The Grand Trunk is not a
railroad, but a firm and smooth highway, with which the English have united Calcutta to the
North-west Provinces and to the west of India. Much of this great roadway is metaled with kunkur,
an oolitic limestone found near the surface of the soil in Hindustan; and all Anglo-India laughed
at the joke of an irreverent punster who, apropos of the fact that this application of kunkur
to the road-bed was made under the orders of Lord William Bentinck, then governor-general,
dubbed that gentleman William the Kunkurer.

We had abandoned our chapaya--which, we may add for the benefit of future travelers, we had
greatly improved as against jolting by causing it to be suspended upon a pair of old springs
which we found, a relic of some antique break-down, in a village on the route--and after a
short journey on elephants were traveling dâk; that is, by post. The dâk-gharri is a comfortable-enough
long carriage on four wheels, and constitutes the principal mode of conveyance for travelers
in India besides the railway. It contains a mattress inside, for it goes night and day, and
one's baggage is strapped on top, much as in an American stage-coach after the "boot" is full.
Frequent relays of horses along the route enable the driver to urge his animals from one station
to the other with great speed, and the only other stoppages are at the dâk-bungalows.

"I have discovered," I said to Bhima Gandharva after a short experience of the dâk-gharri and
the dâk-bungalows--"I have discovered a general remark about India which is not absurd: all
the horses are devils and all the dâk-bungalow servants are patriarchs."

"If you judge by the heels of the former and the beards of the latter, it is true," he said.

This little passage was based on the experience of the last relay, which was, however, little
more than a repetition of many previous ones. My friend and I having arranged ourselves comfortably
in the dâk-gharri as soon as it was announced ready to start, the long and marvelously lean
Indian who was our driver signified to his team by the usual horse-language that we should
be glad to go. The horse did not even agitate his left ear--a phenomenon which I associate
with a horse in that moment when he is quietly making up his mind to be fractious. "Go, my
brother," said the driver in a mellifluous and really fraternal tone of voice. The horse disdained
to acknowledge the tie: he stood still.

Then the driver changed the relationship, with an access of tenderness in voice and in adjuration.
"Go, my son," he entreated. But the son stood as immovable as if he were going to remain a
monument of filial impiety to all time.

"Go, my grandson, my love." This seemed entirely too much for the animal, and produced apparently
a sense of abasement in him which was in the highest degree uncomplimentary to his human kinsman
and lover. He lay down. In so doing he broke several portions of the ragged harness, and then
proceeded, with the most deliberate absurdity, to get himself thoroughly tangled in the remainder.

"I think I should be willing," I said to my companion, "to carry that horse to Jhansi on my
own shoulders if I could have the pleasure of seeing him blown from one of the rajah's cannon
in the, fort."

But the driver, without the least appearance of discomposure, had dismounted, and with his
long deft Hindu fingers soon released the animal, patched up his gear, replaced him between
the shafts and resumed his place.

Another round of consanguinities: the animal still remained immovable, till presently he lunged
out with a wicked kick which had nearly obliterated at one blow the whole line of his ancestry
and collateral relatives as represented in the driver. At this the latter became as furious
as he had before been patient: he belabored the horse, assistants ran from the stables, the
whole party yelled and gesticulated at the little beast simultaneously, and he finally broke
down the road at a pace which the driver did not suffer him to relax until we arrived at the
bungalow where we intended to stop for supper.

A venerable old Mohammedan in a white beard that gave him the majesty of Moses advanced for
the purpose of ascertaining our wants.

"Had he any mutton-chops?" asked Bhima Gandharva in Hindustani, the lingua franca of the country.

"Cherisher of the humble! no."

"Any beefsteak?"

"Nourisher of the poor! no."

"Well, then, I hear a chicken," said my friend, conclusively.

"O great king," said the Mohammedan, turning to me, "there is a chicken."

In a twinkling the cook caught the chicken: its head was turned toward Mecca. Bismillah! O
God the Compassionate, the Merciful! the poor fowl's head flew off, and by the time we had
made our ablutions supper was ready.

Turning across the ridges to the north-eastward from Sipri, we were soon making our way among
the tanks and groves which lie about the walls of Jhansi. Here, as at Poona, there was ever
present to me a sense of evil destinies, of blood, of treacheries, which seemed to linger about
the trees and the tanks like exhalations from the old crimes which have stained the soil of
the country. For Jhansi is in the Bundelcund, and the Bundelcund was born in great iniquity.
The very name--which properly is Bundelakhand, or "the country of the Bundelas"--has a history
thickly set about with the terrors of caste, of murder and of usurpation. Some five hundred
years ago a certain Rajput prince, Hurdeo Sing, committed the unpardonable sin of marrying
a slave (bundi), and was in consequence expelled from the Kshatriya caste to which he belonged.
He fled with his disgrace into this region, and after some years found opportunity at least
to salve his wounds with blood and power. The son of the king into whose land he had escaped
conceived a passion for the daughter of the slave wife. It must needs have been a mighty sentiment,
for the conditions which Hurdeo Sing exacted were of a nature to try the strongest love. These
were, that the nuptial banquet should be prepared by the unmentionable hands of the slave wife
herself, and that the king and his court should partake of it--a proceeding which would involve
the loss of their caste also. But the prince loved, and his love must have lent him extraordinary
eloquence, for he prevailed on his royal father to accept the disgrace. If one could only stop
here, and record that he won his bride, succeeded his magnanimous old parent on the throne,
lived a long and happy life with his queen, and finally died regretted by his loving people!
But this is in the Bundelcund, and the facts are, that the treacherous Hurdeo Sing caused opium
to be secretly put into all the dishes of the wedding-feast, and when the unsuspecting revelers
were completely stupefied by the drug had the whole party assassinated, after which he possessed
himself of the throne and founded the Bundelcund.

One does not wonder that the hills and forests of such a land became the hiding-places of the
strangling Thugs, the home of the poisoning Dacoits, the refuge of conspirators and insurgents
and the terror of Central India.

As for Jhansi, the district in whose capital we were now sojourning, its people must have tasted
many of the sorrows of anarchy and of despotism even in recent times. It was appurtenant no
long time ago to the Bundela rajah of Ourcha: from him it passed by conquest into the possession
of the Peishwa. These small districts were all too handy for being tossed over as presents
to favorites: one finds them falling about among the greedy subordinates of conquerors like
nuts thrown out to school-boys. The Peishwa gave Jhansi to a soubahdar: the British government
then appeared, and effected an arrangement by which the soubahdar should retain it as hereditary
rajah on the annual payment of twenty-four thousand rupees. This so-called rajah, Ramchund
Rao, died without issue in 1835. Amid great disputes as to the succession the British arbitrators
finally decided in favor of Rugonath Rao; but new quarrels straightway arose, a great cry being
made that Rugonath Rao was a leper, and that a leper ought not to be a rajah. His death in
some three years settled that difficulty, only to open fresh ones among the conflicting claimants.
These perplexing questions the British finally concluded quite effectually by assuming charge
of the government themselves, though this was attended with trouble, for the stout old mother
of Ramchund Rao made armed resistance from the fort or castellated residence of the rajahs,
which stands on its great rock overlooking the town of Jhansi. A commission finally decreed
the succession to Baba Gunghadar Rao, but retained the substantial power until the revenues
had recovered from the depression consequent upon these anarchic disturbances.

"At any rate," I said as Bhima Gandharva finished this narrative while we were walking about
the burial-place of the rajahs of Jhansi, and occupying ourselves with tracing the curious
admixture of Moslem with Hindu architecture presented by the tombs, "these rajahs, if they
loved each other but little in life, appear to have buried each other with proper enough observances:
the cenotaphs are worthy of tenderer remembrances."

"Yes," he said: "this part of India is everywhere a land of beautiful tombs which enclose ugly
memories. I recall one tomb, however, near which I have spent many hours of tranquil meditation,
and which is at once lovely without and within: it is the tomb of the Muslim saint Allum Sayed
at Baroda. It was built of stones taken from an old Jain temple whose ruins are still visible
near by; and with a singular fitness, in view of its material, the Muslim architect has mingled
his own style with the Hindu, so that an elegant union of the keen and naked Jain asceticism
with the mellower and richer fancy of the luxurious Mohammedan has resulted in a perfect work
of that art which makes death lovely by recalling its spiritual significance. Besides, a holy
silence broods about the cactus and the euphorbian foliage, so that a word will send the paroquets,
accustomed to such unbroken stillness, into hasty flights. The tomb proper is in the chamber
at the centre, enclosed by delicately-trellised walls of stone. I can easily fancy that the
soul of Allum Sayed is sitting by his grave, like a faithful dog loath to quit his dead master.

Jhansi was once in the enjoyment of a considerable trade. The caravans from the Deccan to Furruckabad
and other places in the Douab were in the habit of stopping here, and there was much trafficking
in the cloths of Chanderi and in bows, arrows and spears--the weapons of the Bundela tribes--which
were here manufactured. Remnants of the wealth then acquired remain; and on the evening of
the same day when we were wandering among the rajahs' tombs we proceeded to the house of a
rich friend of Bhima Gandharva's, where we were to witness a nautch, or dance, executed by
a wandering troop of Mewati bayadères. We arrived about nine o'clock: a servant sprinkled us
with rose-water, and we were ushered into a large saloon, where the bayadères were seated with
a couple of musicians, one of whom played the tam-tam and another a sort of violin. When the
family of our host, together with a few friends, were seated at the end of the room opposite
the bayadères, the signal was given, and the music commenced with a soft and indescribably
languorous air. One of the bayadères rose with a lithe and supple movement of the body not
comparable to anything save the slow separating of a white scud from the main cloud which one
sees on a summer's day high up in the cirrus regions. She was attired in a short jacket, a
scarf, and a profusion of floating stuff that seemed at once to hide and expose. Presently
I observed that her jewelry was glittering as it does not glitter when one is still, yet her
feet were not moving. I also heard a gentle tinkling from her anklets and bracelets. On regarding
her more steadily, I saw that her whole body was trembling in gentle and yet seemingly intense
vibrations, and she maintained this singular agitation while she assumed an attitude of much
grace, extending her arms and spreading out her scarf in gracefully-waving curves. In these
slow and languid changes of posture, which accommodated themselves to the music like undulations
in running water to undulations in the sand of its bed, and in the strange trembling of her
body, which seemed to be an inner miniature dance of the nerves, consisted her entire performance.
She intensified the languid nature of her movements by the languishing coquetries of her enormous
black eyes, from which she sent piercing glances between half-closed lids. It was a dance which
only southern peoples understand. Any one who has ever beheld the slow juba of the negro in
the Southern United States will recognize its affinity to these movements, which, apparently
deliberate, are yet surcharged with intense energy and fire.

Her performance being finished, the bayadère was succeeded by others, each of whom appeared
to have her specialty--one imitating by her postures a serpent-charmer; another quite unequivocally
representing a man-charmer; another rapidly executing what seemed an interminable pirouette.
Finally, all joined in a song and a closing round, adding the sound of clapping hands to the
more energetic measures of the music.

"I can now understand," I said when the nautch was finished, "the remark of the shah of Persia
which set everybody laughing not long ago in England. During his visit to that country, being
present at a ball where ladies and gentlemen were enjoying themselves in a somewhat laborious
way in dancing, he finally asked, 'Why do you not make your servants do this for you?' It is
at least entertaining to see a nautch, but to wade through the English interpretation of a
waltz, hic labor hoc opus est, and the servants ought to perform it."

"Do you know," said Bhima Gandharva, "that much the same national mode of thought which prompts
the Hindu to have his dancing done by the nautch-girls also prompts him to have his tax-gathering
and general governing done by the English? We are often asked why the spectacle has so often
been seen of our native princes quietly yielding up their kingdoms to strangers, and even why
we do not now rise and expel the foreigner from power over us. The truth is, most Hindus are
only glad to get some one else to do the very hard work of governing. The Englishman is always
glad to get a French cook, because the French can cook better than the English. Why should
not we be also glad to get English governors, when the English govern so much better than the
Hindus? In truth, governing and cooking are very like--the successful ruler, like the successful
cook, has only to consult the tastes of his employers; and upon any proper theory of politics
government becomes just as purely an economic business as cooking. You do not cook your own
dinner: why? Because you desire to devote your time to something better and higher. So we do
not collect taxes and lay them out for the public convenience, because there are other things
we prefer to do. I am amazed at the modern ideas of government: it is looked upon as an end,
as an objective result in itself, whereas it is really only the merest of means toward leaving
a man at leisure to attend to his private affairs. The time will come"--and here the Hindu
betrayed more energy than I had hitherto ever seen him display--"when the world will have its
whole governing work done upon contract by those best fitted for it, and when such affairs
will be looked upon as belonging simply to the police function of existence, which negatively
secures us from harm, without at all positively touching the substantial advancement of man's
life."

The next day we fared northward toward Agra, by Duttiah, Gwalior and Dholepore. Learning at
Agra that the northward-bound train--for here we had come upon complete civilization again
in the East Indian Railway--would pass in an hour, we determined to reserve the Taj Mahal (the
lovely Pearl Mosque of Agra) until we should be returning from Delhi to Calcutta. Bhima Gandharva
desired me, however, to see the Douab country and the old sacred city of Mattra; and so when
we had reached Hatras Station, a few miles north of Agra, we abandoned the railway and struck
across to the south-westward, toward Mattra, in a hired carriage.

We were now veritably in ancient Hindustan. It was among these level plains through which we
were rolling that the antique Brahmins came and propounded that marvelous system which afterward
took the whole heart of the land. Nothing could have been more striking than to cast one's
eye thus over the wide cotton-fields--for one associates cotton with the New--and find them
cultivated by these bare-legged and breech-clouted peasants of the Douab, with ploughs which
consisted substantially of a crooked stick shod with iron at the end, and with other such farming-implements
out of the time that one thinks of as forty centuries back. Yet in spite of this primitive
rudeness of culture, and of an aridity of soil necessitating troublesome irrigation, these
plains have for a prodigious period of time supported a teeming population; and I could not
help crying out to Bhima Gandharva that if we had a few millions of these gentle and patient
peasants among the cotton-fields of the United States, the South would quickly become a Garden
of Delight and the planters could build Jammah Masjids with rupees for marble.

The conservatism which has preserved for so long a time the ancient rude methods of industry
begins to grow on one as one passes between these villages of people who seem to be living
as if they were perfectly sure that God never intended them to live any other way.

"It is not long," said my friend, "since a British officer of engineers, on some expedition
or other, was encamped for the night at no great distance from here. His tent had been pitched
near one of those Persian water-wheels such as you have seen, which, although of great antiquity,
are perhaps as ingeniously adapted to the purpose of lifting water as any machine ever invented.
The creaking of the wheel annoyed him very much, and after a restless night, owing to that
cause, he rose and went out of his tent and inquired of the proprietor of the wheel (a native)
why in the name of Heaven he never greased it. 'Because,' said the conservative Hindu, 'I have
become so accustomed to the noise that I can only sleep soundly while it is going on: when
it stops, then I wake, and knowing from the cessation of the sound that my bullock-driver is
neglecting his duty, I go out and beat him.' Thus, even the conservation of the useless comes
in time to create habits which are useful."

"It is true," I replied, "and it recalls to me a somewhat unusual illustration. A summer or
two ago a legal friend of mine, who is the possessor of a large family of children, came into
the court-room one morning with very red eyes, and to my inquiry concerning the cause of the
same he replied: 'To tell you the truth, I can't go to sleep unless a child is crying about
the house somewhere; but my wife left town yesterday for the summer with all the children,
and I haven't had a wink the whole night.'"

