PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 104.

January 21, 1893.

CONVERSATIONAL HINTS FOR YOUNG SHOOTERS.

THE KEEPER.

(With an Excursus on Beaters.)

Of the many varieties of keeper, I propose, at present, to consider only the average sort of
keeper, who looks after a shooting, comprising partridges, pheasants, hares, and rabbits, in
an English county. Now it is to be observed that your ordinary keeper is not a conversational
animal. He has, as a rule, too much to do to waste time in unnecessary talk. To begin with,
he has to control his staff, the men and boys who walk in line with you through the root-fields,
or beat the coverts for pheasants. That might seem at first sight to be an easy business, but
it is actually one of the most difficult in the world. For thorough perverse stupidity, you
will not easily match the autochthonous beater. Watch him as he trudges along, slow, expressionless,
clod-resembling, lethargic, and say how you would like to be the chief of such an army. He
is always getting out of line, pressing forward unduly, or hanging back too much, and the loud
voice of the keeper makes the woods resound with remonstrance, entreaty, and blame, hurled
at his bovine head. After lunch, it is true, the beater wakes up for a little. Then shall you
hear WILLIAM exchanging confidences from one end of the line to the other with JARGE, while
the startled pheasant rises too soon and goes back, to the despair of the keeper and the guns.
Then, too, are heard the shouts of laughter which greet the appearance of a rabbit, and the
air is thick with the sticks that the joyous, beery beaters fling at the scurrying form of
their hereditary foe. It is marvellous to note with what a venomous hatred the beater regards
the bunny. Pheasant or partridge he is careless of; even the hare is, in comparison, a thing
of nought, but let him once set eyes on a rabbit, and his whole being seems to change. His
eye absolutely flashes, his chest heaves with excitement beneath the ancient piece of sacking
that protects his form from thorns. If the rabbit falls to the shot, he yells with exultation;
if it be missed, an expression of morose and gloomy disappointment settles on his face, as
who should say, "Things are played out; the world is worthless!"

All these characteristics are the keeper's despair; though, to be sure, he has staunch lieutenants
in his under-keepers; and towards the end of the day he can always count on two sympathising
allies in the postman and the policeman. These two never fail to come out in the afternoon
to join the beaters. It is amusing to watch the demeanour of the beaters in the policeman's
presence. Some of them, it is possible, have been immeshed by the law, and have made the constable's
acquaintance in his professional capacity. Others are conscious of undiscovered peccadilloes,
or they feel that on some future day they may be led to transgress rules, of which the policeman
is the sturdy embodiment. None of them is, therefore, quite at his best in the policeman's
presence. Their attitude may be described as one of uneasy familiarity, bursting here and there
into jocular nervousness, but never quite attaining the rollicking point. You may sometimes
take advantage of this feeling to let off a joke on a beater. Select a stout, plethoric one,
and say to him, "Mind you keep your eye on the policeman, or he'll poach a rabbit before you
can say knife." This simple inversion of probabilities and positions is quite certain to "go."
A hesitating smile will first creep into the corners of the beater's eye. After an interval
spent in grappling with the jest, he will become purple, and finally he will explode.

