In. For. (drily). Exactly, and teach your neighbours how to do it?

Com. Gen. (gazing at his neglected work). But if you know everything, why do you come to me?

In. For. Well, I thought if I got it first hand from the Commander of the Future, it would
strengthen the opinion I have already formed of the unpreparedness of the British Empire. For
I take it that the British Empire is unprepared?

Com. Gen. (amused). Why, certainly! I thought everybody knew that! If war were declared now,
according to all the rules of the game, we ought to be absolutely ruined.

In. For. Dear me! I am sorry to hear it! But surely your Fleet is fairly strong?

Com. Gen. (laughing). What a joke! Oh, I dare say, ship for ship and gun for gun, we are more
powerful than any other nation. But if hostilities broke out, our Fleet would be valueless.
We should want every vessel to guard our island shores, and our commerce and colonies would
have to shift for themselves.

In. For. (with concern). Dear me! This is very sad! But then you have an Army?

Com. Gen. (with another burst of laughter). What! Call our wretched force an Army! Why, to
quote a writer, whose letters have been published in our leading journal, "Nobody could tell
the Secretary of State for War how a force of forty thousand men, if it had to be supplemented
for defensive purposes by Volunteers, could be supplied with ammunition for six weeks." Call
our force an Army! Why, my dear Sir, the notion is absolutely ridiculous!

In. For. But does not such a state of things make you uneasy?

Com. Gen. Uneasy! Of course it does! Why, at a moment's notice, this grand old country might
disappear for ever! Why we all feel that we are on the point of dissolution! We know that only
a ninth-rate Power has to send a fleet to invade us, and we should have to submit--that we
should be absolutely effaced, and be known in future as merely a geographical expression!

In. For. But surely this is lamentable--demoralising?

Com. Gen. I should rather think it was!--awfully demoralising!--(Sound of telephone bell.)--But
will you pardon me? Some one wishes to speak to me from Head Quarters. I won't be a second.

In. For. Certainly. Pray see what it is.

Com. Gen. (listening, and speaking through telephone). What! Not really? Hurray!

In. For. Why, what is the news?

Com. Gen. (excitedly). Splendid! The Great Powers of Europe have simultaneously declared war
against us! This will be grand!

In. For. (in a tone of deep commiseration). My poor fellow, this means ruin!

Com. Gen. Ruin! Rot! (Through telephone.) All right, will start to-night, and should be in
Paris by Thursday, and at St. Petersburg at latest by the end of week. We can take Vienna and
Berlin on our way home! I will be with the men at Portsmouth within an hour. Never mind our
baggage; send it on afterwards.

In. For. (astounded). But what are you going to do?

Com. Gen. (with determination). Going to do! Why give them another thrashing! By-by, no time
for talking! See you again soon!

[Exit hurriedly to beat the foe, and, strange to say, the object is subsequently attained--somehow!

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ANTI-ONIONIST LIBERAL.--Mr. LEAKE lately made a radically plucky speech, and is in future
to be known in the North as Cocky Leakey.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR FINANCIAL COLUMN.

Telegraphic Address.--"Croesus," Everywhere.

Of course I knew perfectly well what would happen after I had put forth the programme of my
financial operations. I said at the time to my friend GUS BRUMMAGEM, "Mark my words," I said,
"I shall have all the Crowned Heads of the world grovelling at my feet and imploring, actually
imploring me to allow them to hand over their money and their ancestral regalia to me for investment.
They're bound to do it. I know the beggars well, and a more grasping lot you couldn't find
within a day's march of Holloway Gaol." Dear old GUS (Beau GUS he is always called on account
of his singularly attractive appearance) went so far as to pooh-pooh what I said. I don't bear
him any ill-will. Gus was always a bit of a courtier, and got his head turned for good, when
the Japanese Prince CHI IKAH invited him to stay a week at his country house, and to act as
godfather to the infant prince, KA CHOOKAH, the necessary ceremony haying been postponed for
six months in order to allow GUS to get there in time. That, as I say, was the ruin of GUS,
and since that time he has had an offensive way of giving himself not merely airs, but what
I may call regular blasts in the company of men better than himself. He ought to recollect
that he owes his start in life to the lucky chance that threw him in my way. If I hadn't appointed
him Chairman of the Turp, Pin and Bolt Company, and Managing Director of the New Gatefringe
Syndicate, Limited, he might still be engaged in sweeping out the tenth-rate office which was
formerly the scene of his labours. But I never expect gratitude. I am content to do good to
my fellow-creatures without the least hope of merely temporal reward. On this particular occasion
I was right, as usual. Telegrams stamped with the coats-of-arms of all the principal dynasties
of the world have been inundating me. For instance, H.R.H. the Hereditary Grand Duke of LEIBWEH
has wired to me in the following terms, of which I have caused an accurate translation to be
executed by my staff of paid short-hand clerks:--"Have on my faithful and with-joy-inspired
subjects a tax of ten reichsgulden each after great on the part of my ministers reluctance
imposed. Invest proceeds for me in the best to your wisdom known company, and without delay.
Perfect confidence." Now I can assure His Royal Highness, who will look in vain for any other
answer than this, that no power on earth, and least of all the cajoleries or menaces of the
great and highly-placed shall induce me to depart by one jot or tittle from the course I have
marked out for myself. And I take this occasion to assure all other potentates that I do not
propose by any effort of mine to bring wealth to the foreigner. The welfare of the British
people is my only care. For them, but for no others, my investments are open; to them alone
I devote my unrivalled experience. And after this I trust I shall be troubled with no further
importunities from abroad.

I have to announce this week that I have formed The Croesus Club Company. I have, at immense
expense, secured a splendid site in the very heart of the fashionable quarter of London. Building
operations will begin immediately, and within the next three weeks the members will be housed
in a Club-house unrivalled for comfort and luxury. Ten French chefs will preside over the kitchen,
and house dinners at a minimum price of £5 a-head will be served in the Ruby Hall to the strains
of the Brass Potsdammer Buben Hussar Band, specially retained for the exclusive service of
the Club. The first list of members will consist of 2000, and, in order to insure exclusiveness,
the subscription will be fixed at £500 without any entrance fee. A list of the Provisional
Committee, containing a Duke as Chairman and four Peers as ordinary members, will be issued
at once. I have the authority of the Committee to receive subscriptions.

I may point with pride to the fact that all the investments recommended by me have prospered,
and the list of British millionnaires has been heavily increased. Canadian Boodlers fairly
firm, but with a tendency to cross the border-line. No returns. I say, "Sell." M.T. Coffer
Co. not very promising. (294 stk.; lim. pref., 19; mortg. deb., 44.) Clear out, if possible.
Tight Rates Ry. Co. must be bought. But enough of this. All that is necessary is that correspondents
should send remittances. The rest may be left to me.

CROESUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

QUITE A LIBEL'Y PROSPECT!

(Or what may be expected after a recent Verdict.)

SCENE--An Editor's Room. Editor and Chief Sub. discovered in conversation.

Editor. And I think you have asked the Solicitors who have threatened us with proceedings to
be in attendance?

Chief Sub. Yes, Sir. They are below--shall I send them up?

Ed. If you please. One by one; and kindly impress upon them the value of my time.

Chief Sub. Certainly. But I think you will find they will get over their business pretty speedily.
After they have gone, no doubt you would like to look at the Contents Bill, Sir?

Ed. Yes, please; and now send up the Lawyers.

[Exit Chief Sub., when the Editor returns to his writing, until interrupted by First Solicitor.

First Solor. Sorry to intrude upon you when you seem to be busy, but it was your own idea that
I should look you up.

Ed. Entirely. And now, Sir, perhaps you will kindly explain of what your client has to complain.

First Solor. Certainly. You said of the senior member of the Bounding Brothers of Bohemia,
that, "although a very marvel of strength and grace, he could scarcely, after fifty years service
in the ring, be described as a trapèze-practising acrobat."

Ed. Well, surely that is a most complimentary allusion to his personality! What does he want
more than to be "a marvel of grace and strength"?

First Solor. You say he can scarcely be described as a "trapèze-practising acrobat."

Ed. Well, can he? Does he ever practise on the trapèze?

First Solor. Well, no. But he might if he liked! You see his chief business is to stand at
the base of the pyramid, at the apex of which is his smallest and lightest Bounding Brother.
But he might use the trapèze, I repeat, if he liked.

Ed. If what I hear is correct--it would have to be a strong one?

First Solor. Certainly--an extra strong one. We don't deny that our client weighs over twenty
stone. But there, as we can accept no explanation, will you kindly tell me the name of your
Solicitor?

Editor. Certainly.

[Gives the requisite information, and returns to his work, until interrupted by Second Solicitor,
who has taken the place of the First.

Second Solor. I am afraid this interview is absolutely useless. Our client can accept no apology.
You announced that you believed that JOHN SNOOKS had ceased to be in the employment of the
Universal Cab and Fly Company.

Editor. Who is John SNOOKS?

Second Solor. He is a driver in the service of the organisation I have just named--and we act
for the organisation. We complain that you have seriously injured us by telling the public
that you believed we had lost the services of one of our thousand drivers.

Editor. But if we did believe it?

Second Solor. That is your business and not ours; and so, Sir, we shall be glad of the names
of your Solicitors.

[The information is afforded, and the Editor returns to his work, until interrupted by Third
Solicitor.

Third Solor. Sorry to disturb you, but you have been libelling one of our clients. He objects
to your putting his Christian name in the paper--says that even with another surname it will
injure him with his neighbours. He doesn't want his Christian name to be figuring in the public
prints.

Ed. And what is his Christian name?

Third Solor. ZOZIMUS.

Ed. Why, that is mine! I thought I was the only man in the world with that name, with the solitary
exception of my godfather!

Third Solor. Very likely you are--your godfather is our client.

Ed. Then mustn't I print my own name?

Third Solor. Certainly not without running the risk of an action for libel. The address of
your Solicitors, please?

[The Editor gives the desired information, and then sends up "the Pleasure of Editing" to the
Composing Room as a line for the Contents Bill as the Scene closes in.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Elevating Exhibition.

At the Alhambra, the Little GEORGIA MAGNET ought to attract thousands. Three heavy swells seated
on a chair she can lift, chair and all, so that the little lady's exhibition of power must
have a wonderfully elevating effect on all who come within the reach of her influence. At all
events, there can be no doubt that her magnetic force will give the Alhambra itself a tremendous
lift.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I can't write seasonable verses," replied Our Festive Poet, "until I've had my Christmas dinner,
and then I'm mincepie-r'd!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AN IMPERIAL STAGE-MANAGER.

"GUILLAUME DEUX," says the Figaro, "prend très au sérieux sa tâche de moralisateur." He is
his own Licenser of plays, and, it may be presumed, collars the fees for doing the official
Licenser's work; that is, if there be a department of this nature in the Lord Chamberlain's
Office. And His Imperial Highhandedness not only is his own licenser, but is a self-appointed
Stage-Manager, for, continues the Figaro, "Il a préscrit que, dans une pièce moderne, LE NOUVEAU
MAITRE, une scène un peu violente ne fût pas jouée à l'avant-scène, mais au fond du théâtre."
If His Imperial Majesty should permit some of IBSEN'S plays to be performed, Ghosts for example,
or Hedda Gabler, no doubt most of the dialogue would be given right at the back of the stage,
out of ear-shot of the audience. In ordinary dramas the Villain who may have to use strong
language, or in farce the Eccentric Comedian who frequently has to utter more or less playfully
a meaningless "big big D," would by Imperial command be compelled to "retire up" to deliver
himself of the expletive, and then would have to "come down to the front" and continue the
stage-business. But, not satisfied with merely giving the above stage-directions, His Imperial
Majesty "est allé samedi s'assurer en personne que ses ordres étaient bien exécutés." No dodging
such an Emperor as this. How would Herr Von IRVING and Herr TOOLE like this personal supervision?
And how about Herren JONES, PINERO, W.S. GILBERT and a few others, who would not particularly
enjoy having their stage-directions upset by even an Imperial amateur. The next move of GUILLAUME
DEUX will be to make himself honorary prompter, and it may be to cast himself for the leading
parts.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

"DICKENSII nihil à me alienum puto," quoth the Baron, taking up A Week's Tramp in Dickens-Land.
By W.K. HUGHES, F.L.S., with Illustrations by F.G. KITTON, and Others, published by Messrs.
CHAPMAN AND HALL. Ahem! The frisky KITTON, having several tales to play with (probably some
relation to the Cat-'o-nine-tails, eh?), has done his work well; and the same may be said for
Others. The work can be recommended as a book of pictorial reference for Dickensian students,
but otherwise it is--ahem--superfluous. If this kind of trading on the name of DICKENS continues,
we shall probably become HUGHES'd to seeing such announcements as, "Shortly to appear,--The
Collected Bills of the Butcher and Baker of Charles Dickens; Upper Storeys of Houses in whose
Neighbourhood Charles Dickens resided; Some Tradesmen's Accounts, Receipted and Returned with
Thanks, Autographically, to Charles Dickens, &c., &c.

A sad story, picturesquely commenced, and powerfully ended, is RUDYARD KIPLING'S The Light
that Failed. But, between these two extremes, the conversations have the deadly fault of being
wearisome, and, as to the manner of their conversation, were the Baron compelled to listen
to much of it, life would indeed not be worth living. The women-kind in it are all detestable;
there is none of them that doeth good in the novel, no, not one. It becomes gradually gloomier
and gloomier, and, indeed, it is well styled The Light that Failed. Since DAUDET'S Jack, the
Baron calls to mind no book more pitiful, no characters more heartless, and no sadder ending.
Clever, of course; artistic, equally so; but--well, the Baron's advice to his enemies is, Go
in heavily for Christmas festivities, have an orgy of plum-pudding, creams, sweets, and mince-pies,
and, on the day after Boxing Day, stay indoors, and read The Light that Failed.

In the Baron's office there are several departments, where SAM the Skipper for novels, CHILD
HAROLD for children's books, and PETER the Salt for tales of the sea, are specially busy at
Christmas time. To quote the ancient song of the "Mistletoe Bough":--

  "The Baron's retainers were Blythe and Gay;"

and so are they now, as the Ladies BELINDA BLYTHE and GRISELDA GAY undertake a considerable
proportion of such seasonable reviewing as is more or less expected from the BARON DE BOOK-WORMS
about this season of the year. But the Baron reviews the reviewers, and presents the public
with only the pick of the basket. Now, once for all, the Baron gives notice hereby and herewith
nevertheless and all to the contrary notwithstanding, that neither he nor his retainers will
take notice of Christmas puzzles, such as, for example, the bilious-looking "Spots Puzzle,"
which ought to be dedicated to Little Red Riding Hood, as it is brought out by "WOLF." The
Baron cannot listen to "the cry of WOLF." Let that he understood. Now, in the way of Books,
what is there for Christmas fare? There is friend BLACKIE, who doesn't keep himself dark, but
comes out with Henty in Plenty, whose Dash for Khartoum will be appreciated even by those who
don't ordinarily care a dash for anything. Ask for HENTY, and see that you get him. Mr. MANVILLE
FENN ought long ago to have changed his name to BOYVILLE FENN, as he is so associated with
Books for Boys, and his Brownsmith's Boy is more boyant than ever. "A capital book" says the
Baron's chief adviser. Find out The Rover's Secret, by HARRY COLLINGWOOD; it is worth knowing,
and make friends with ANNIE ARMSTRONG'S Three Bright Girls.

Angling Sketches, by ANDREW LANG--Andrew L'Angler--are delightful reading. The Baron pictures
to himself the thoughtful and Balfour-like ANDREW on a bank by the river, rod stuck into ground,
pencil and note-book in his hand. "What is he doing, my boy?" inquires the Baron, of the hook-baiting
boy. "He's ketching sumthink," whispers the urchin. Is it Historical Notes on the Diet of Wurms?
Is it necessary to show that the fish have no consciousness of Pain? Or, is he composing Lines
to my Rod? Or is it a disquisition on "ingratitude," showing how the stream goes on murmuring?
And does he classically remind it how silent it ought to be,--Dumb defluit annis? Or does the
stream murmur because our ANDREW the Fisherman has been "whipping" it? Should he betake himself
to fly-fishing, let his motto be "Strike and spare not!" and if he would be wise above his
fellows in the gentle art of catching fish, let him consult The Incomplete Angler, says, disinterestedly,

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMS FROM MONKEY-LAND.

    (Being a Report made to the "Royal Simian Society" by Professor Hairy
    Myas, F.R.S.S., with compliments to Professor Garnier, who continues
    his articles on "a Simian Language" in "The New Review" for this
    month.)

