The American and British historians from whom we are thus at times forced to draw our material
regard the war from very different stand-points, and their accounts generally differ. Each
writer naturally so colored the affair as to have it appear favorable to his own side. Sometimes
this was done intentionally and sometimes not. Not unfrequently errors are made against the
historian's own side; as when the British author, Brenton, says that the British brig Peacock
mounted 32's instead of 24's, while Lossing in his "Field-Book of the War of 1812" makes the
same mistake about the armament of the American brig Argus. Errors of this description are,
of course, as carefully to be guarded against as any others. Mere hearsay reports, such as
"it has been said," "a prisoner on board the opposing fleet has observed," "an American (or
British) newspaper of such and such a date has remarked," are of course to be rejected. There
is a curious parallelism in the errors on both sides. For example, the American, Mr. Low, writing
in 1813, tells how the Constitution, 44, captured the Guerriere of 49 guns, while the British
Lieutenant Low, writing in 1880, tells how the Pelican, 18, captured the Argus of 20 guns.
Each records the truth but not the whole truth, for although rating 44 and 18 the victors carried
respectively 54 and 21 guns, of heavier metal than those of their antagonists. Such errors
are generally intentional. Similarly, most American writers mention the actions in which the
privateers were victorious, but do not mention those in which they were defeated; while the
British, in turn, record every successful "cutting-out" expedition, but ignore entirely those
which terminated unfavorably. Other errors arise from honest ignorance. Thus, James in speaking
of the repulse of the Endymion's boats by the Neufchatel gives the latter a crew of 120 men;
she had more than this number originally, but only 40 were in her at the time of the attack.
So also when the captain of the Pelican writes that the officers of the Argus report her loss
at 40, when they really reported it at 24 or when Captain Dacres thought the Constitution had
lost about 20 men instead of 14. The American gun-boat captains in recounting their engagements
with the British frigates invariably greatly overestimated the loss of the latter. So that
on both sides there were some intentional misstatements or garblings, and a much more numerous
class of simple blunders, arising largely from an incapacity for seeing more than one side
of the question.

Among the early British writers upon this war, the ablest was James. He devoted one work, his
"Naval Occurrences," entirely to it; and it occupies the largest part of the sixth volume of
his more extensive "History of the British Navy." [Footnote: A new edition, London, 1826.]
Two other British writers, Lieutenant Marshall [Footnote: "Royal Naval Biography," by John
Marshall (London, 1823-1835).] and Captain Brenton, [Footnote: "Naval History of Great Britain,"
by Edward Pelham Brenton (new edition, London, 1837).] wrote histories of the same events,
about the same time; but neither of these naval officers produced half as valuable a work as
did the civilian James. Marshall wrote a dozen volumes, each filled with several scores of
dreary panegyrics, or memoirs of as many different officers. There is no attempt at order,
hardly any thing about the ships, guns, or composition of the crews; and not even the pretence
of giving both sides, the object being to make every Englishman appear in his best light. The
work is analogous to the numerous lives of Decatur, Bainbridge, Porter, etc., that appeared
in the United States about the same time, and is quite as untrustworthy. Brenton made a far
better and very interesting book, written on a good and well-connected plan, and apparently
with a sincere desire to tell the truth. He accepts the British official accounts as needing
nothing whatever to supplement them, precisely as Cooper accepts the American officials'. A
more serious fault is his inability to be accurate. That this inaccuracy is not intentional
is proved by the fact that it tells as often against his own side as against his opponents.
He says, for example, that the guns of Perry's and Barclay's squadrons "were about equal in
number and weight," that the Peacock (British) was armed with 32's instead of 24's, and underestimates
the force of the second Wasp. But the blunders are quite as bad when distributed as when confined
to one side; in addition, Brenton's disregard of all details makes him of but little use.

James, as already said, is by far the most valuable authority on the war, as regards purely
British affairs. He enters minutely into details, and has evidently laboriously hunted up his
authorities. He has examined the ships' logs, the Admiralty reports, various treatises, all
the Gazette reports, gives very well-chosen extracts, has arranged his work in chronological
order, discriminates between the officers that deserve praise and those that deserve blame,
and in fact writes a work which ought to be consulted by every student of naval affairs. But
he is unfortunately afflicted with a hatred toward the Americans that amounts to a monomania.
He wishes to make out as strong a case as possible against them. The animus of his work may
be gathered from the not over complimentary account of the education of the youthful seafaring
American, which can be found in vol. vi, p. 113, of his "History." On page 153 he asserts that
he is an "impartial historian"; and about three lines before mentions that "it may suit the
Americans to invent any falsehood, no matter how barefaced, to foist a valiant character on
themselves." On page 419 he says that Captain Porter is to be believed, "so far as is borne
out by proof (the only safe way where an American is concerned),"--which somewhat sweeping
denunciation of the veracity of all of Captain Porter's compatriots would seem to indicate
that James was not, perhaps, in that dispassionate frame of mind best suited for writing history.
That he should be biassed against individual captains can be understood, but when he makes
rabid onslaughts upon the American people as a whole, he renders it difficult for an American,
at any rate, to put implicit credence in him. His statements are all the harder to confute
when they are erroneous, because they are intentionally so. It is not, as with Brenton and
Marshall, because he really thinks a British captain cannot be beaten, except by some kind
of distorted special providence, for no man says worse things than he does about certain officers
and crews. A writer of James' undoubted ability must have known perfectly well that his statements
were untrue in many instances, as where he garbles Hilyar's account of Porter's loss, or misstates
the comparative force of the fleets on Lake Champlain.

When he says (p. 194) that Captain Bainbridge wished to run away from the Java, and would have
done so if he had not been withheld by the advice of his first lieutenant, who was a renegade
Englishman, [Footnote: Who, by the way, was Mr. Parker, born in Virginia, and never in England
in his life.] it is not of much consequence whether his making the statement was due to excessive
credulity or petty meanness, for, in either case, whether the defect was in his mind or his
morals, it is enough to greatly impair the value of his other "facts." Again, when James (p.
165) states that Decatur ran away from the Macedonian until, by some marvellous optical delusion,
he mistook her for a 32, he merely detracts a good deal from the worth of his own account.
When the Americans adopt boarding helmets, he considers it as proving conclusively that they
are suffering from an acute attack of cowardice. On p. 122 he says that "had the President,
when she fell in with the Belvidera, been cruising alone * * * Commodore Rodgers would have
magnified the British frigate into a line-of-battle ship, and have done his utmost to avoid
her," which gives an excellent idea of the weight to be attached to the various other anecdotes
he relates of the much-abused Commodore Rodgers.

But it must always be remembered that untrustworthy as James is in any thing referring purely
to the Americans, he is no worse than his compeers of both nationalities. The misstatements
of Niles in his "Weekly Register" about the British are quite as flagrant, and his information
about his own side even more valuable. [Footnote: In Niles, by the way, can be found excellent
examples of the traditional American "spread-eagle" style. In one place I remember his describing
"The Immortal Rodgers," baulked of his natural prey, the British, as "soaring about like the
bold bald eagle of his native land," seeking whom he might devour. The accounts he gives of
British line-of-battle ships fleeing from American 44's quite match James' anecdotes of the
latter's avoidance of British 38's and 36's for fear they might mount twenty-four-pounders.
The two works taken together give a very good idea of the war; separately, either is utterly
unreliable, especially in matters of opinion.] Every little American author crowed over Perry's
"Nelsonic victory over a greatly superior force." The Constitution was declared to have been
at a disadvantage when she fought the Guerriere, and so on ad infinitum. But these writers
have all faded into oblivion, and their writings are not even referred to, much less believed.
James, on the contrary, has passed through edition after edition, is considered as unquestionable
authority in his own country, and largely throughout Europe, and has furnished the basis for
every subsequent account by British authors. From Alison to Lieutenant Low, almost every English
work, whether of a popular character or not, is, in so far as it touches on the war, simply
a "rehash" of the works written by James. The consequence is that the British and American
accounts have astonishingly little resemblance. One ascribes the capture of the British frigates
simply to the fact that their opponents were "cut down line-of-battle ships"; the other gives
all the glory to the "undaunted heroism," etc., of the Yankee sailors.

One not very creditable trait of the early American naval historians gave their rivals a great
advantage. The object of the former was to make out that the Constitution, for example, won
her victories against an equal foe, and an exact statement of the forces showed the contrary;
so they always avoided figures, and thus left the ground clear for James' careful misstatements.
Even when they criticised him they never went into details, confining themselves to some remark
about "hurling" his figures in his face with "loathing." Even Cooper, interesting though his
work is, has gone far less into figures than he should, and seems to have paid little if any
attention to the British official statements, which of course should be received as of equal
weight with the American. His comments on the actions are generally very fair, the book never
being disfigured by bitterness toward the British; but he is certainly wrong, for example,
in ascribing the loss of the Chesapeake solely to accident, that of the Argus solely to her
inferiority in force, and so on. His disposition to praise all the American commanders may
be generous, but is nevertheless unjust. If Decatur's surrender of the President is at least
impliedly praised, then Porter's defence of the Essex can hardly receive its just award. There
is no weight in the commendation bestowed upon Hull, if commendation, the same in kind though
less in degree, is bestowed upon Rodgers. It is a great pity that Cooper did not write a criticism
on James, for no one could have done it more thoroughly. But he never mentions him, except
once in speaking of Barclay's fleet. In all probability this silence arose from sheer contempt,
and the certainty that most of James' remarks were false; but the effect was that very many
foreigners believe him to have shirked the subject. He rarely gives any data by which the statements
of James can be disproved, and it is for this reason that I have been obliged to criticise
the latter's work very fully. Many of James' remarks, however, defy criticism from their random
nature, as when he states that American midshipmen were chiefly masters and mates of merchantmen,
and does not give a single proof to support the assertion. It would be nearly as true to assert
that the British midshipmen were for the most part ex-members of the prize-ring, and as much
labor would be needed to disprove it. In other instances it is quite enough to let his words
speak for themselves, as where he says (p. 155) that of the American sailors one third in number
and one half in point of effectiveness were in reality British. That is, of the 450 men the
Constitution had when she fought the Java 150 were British, and the remaining 300 could have
been as effectively replaced by 150 more British. So a very little logic works out a result
that James certainly did not intend to arrive at; namely, that 300 British led by American
officers could beat, with ease and comparative impunity, 400 British led by their own officers.
He also forgets that the whole consists of the sum of the parts. He accounts for the victories
of the Americans by stating (p. 280) that they were lucky enough to meet with frigates and
brigs who had unskilful gunners or worthless crews; he also carefully shows that the Macedonian
was incompetently handled, the Peacock commanded by a mere martinet, the Avon's crew unpractised
weak and unskilful, the Java's exceedingly poor, and more to the same effect. Now the Americans
took in single fight three frigates and seven sloops, and when as many as ten vessels are met
it is exceedingly probable that they represent the fair average; so that James' strictures,
so far as true, simply show that the average British ship was very apt to possess, comparatively
speaking, an incompetent captain or unskilful crew. These disadvantages were not felt when
opposed to navies in which they existed to an even greater extent, but became very apparent
when brought into contact with a power whose few officers knew how to play their own parts
very nearly to perfection, and, something equally important, knew how to make first-rate crews
out of what was already good raw material. Finally, a large proportion of James' abuse of the
Americans sufficiently refutes itself, and perhaps Cooper's method of contemptuously disregarding
him was the best; but no harm can follow from devoting a little space to commenting upon him.

Much the best American work is Lieutenant George E. Emmons' statistical "History of the United
States Navy." Unfortunately it is merely a mass of excellently arranged and classified statistics,
and while of invaluable importance to the student, is not interesting to the average reader.
Almost all the statements I have made of the force, tonnage, and armament of the American vessels,
though I have whenever practicable taken them from the Navy Records, etc., yet could be just
as well quoted from Emmons. Copies of most of the American official letters which I have quoted
can be found in "Niles' Register," volumes 1 to 10, and all of the British ones in the "London
Naval Chronicle" for the same years. It is to these two authorities that I am most indebted,
and nearly as much so to the "American State Papers," vol. xiv. Next in order come Emmons,
Cooper, and the invaluable, albeit somewhat scurrilous, James; and a great many others whose
names I have quoted in their proper places. In commenting upon the actions, I have, whenever
possible, drawn from some standard work, such as Jurien de la Graviere's "Guerres Maritimes,"
Lord Howard Douglass' "Naval Gunnery," or, better still, from the lives and memoirs of Admirals
Farragut, Codrington, Broke, or Durham. The titles of the various works will be found given
in full as they are referred to. [Footnote: To get an idea of the American seamen of that time
Cooper's novels, "Miles Wallingford," "Home as Found," and the "Pilot," are far better than
any history; in the "Two Admirals" the description of the fleet manoeuvring is unrivalled.
His view of Jack's life is rather rose-colored however. "Tom Cringle's log" ought to be read
for the information it gives. Marryatt's novels will show some of the darker aspects of sailor
life.] In a few cases, where extreme accuracy was necessary, or where, as in the case of the
President's capture, it was desirable that there should be no room for dispute as to the facts,
I have given the authority for each sentence; but in general this would be too cumbersome,
and so I have confined myself to referring, at or near the beginning of the account of each
action, to the authorities from whom I have taken it. For the less important facts on which
every one is agreed I have often given no references.

During the early years of this century England's naval power stood at a height never reached
before or since by that of any other nation. On every sea her navies rode, not only triumphant,
but with none to dispute their sway. The island folk had long claimed the mastery of the ocean,
and they had certainly succeeded in making their claim completely good during the time of bloody
warfare that followed the breaking out of the French Revolution. Since the year 1792 each European
nation, in turn, had learned to feel bitter dread of the weight of England's hand. In the Baltic,
Sir Samuel Hood had taught the Russians that they must needs keep in port when the English
cruisers were in the offing. The descendants of the Vikings had seen their whole navy destroyed
at Copenhagen. No Dutch fleet ever put out after the day when, off Camperdown, Lord Duncan
took possession of De Winter's shattered ships. But a few years before 1812, the greatest sea-fighter
of all time had died in Trafalgar Bay, and in dying had crumbled to pieces the navies of France
and of Spain.

From that day England's task was but to keep in port such of her foes' vessels as she had not
destroyed. France alone still possessed fleets that could be rendered formidable, and so, from
the Scheldt to Toulon, her harbors were watched and her coasts harried by the blockading squadrons
of the English. Elsewhere the latter had no fear of their power being seriously assailed; but
their vast commerce and numerous colonies needed ceaseless protection. Accordingly in every
sea their cruisers could be found, of all sizes, from the stately ship-of-the-line, with her
tiers of heavy cannon and her many hundreds of men, down to the little cutter carrying but
a score of souls and a couple of light guns. All these cruisers, but especially those of the
lesser rates, were continually brought into contact with such of the hostile vessels as had
run through the blockade, or were too small to be affected by it. French and Italian frigates
were often fought and captured when they were skirting their own coasts, or had started off
on a plundering cruise through the Atlantic, or to the Indian Ocean; and though the Danes had
lost their larger ships they kept up a spirited warfare with brigs and gun-boats. So the English
marine was in constant exercise, attended with almost invariable success.

Such was Great Britain's naval power when the Congress of the United States declared war upon
her. While she could number her thousand sail, the American navy included but half a dozen
frigates, and six or eight sloops and brigs; and it is small matter for surprise that the British
officers should have regarded their new foe with contemptuous indifference. Hitherto the American
seamen had never been heard of except in connection with two or three engagements with French
frigates, and some obscure skirmishes against the Moors of Tripoli; none of which could possibly
attract attention in the years that saw Aboukir, Copenhagen, and Trafalgar. And yet these same
petty wars were the school which raised our marine to the highest standard of excellence. A
continuous course of victory, won mainly by seamanship, had made the English sailor overweeningly
self-confident, and caused him to pay but little regard to manoeuvring or even to gunnery.
Meanwhile the American learned, by receiving hard knocks, how to give them, and belonged to
a service too young to feel an over-confidence in itself. One side had let its training relax,
while the other had carried it to the highest possible point. Hence our ships proved, on the
whole, victorious in the apparently unequal struggle, and the men who had conquered the best
seamen of Europe were now in turn obliged to succumb. Compared with the great naval battles
of the preceding few years, out bloodiest conflicts were mere skirmishes, but they were skirmishes
between the hitherto acknowledged kings of the ocean, and new men who yet proved to be more
than their equals. For over a hundred years, or since the time when they had contended on equal
terms with the great Dutch admirals, the British had shown a decided superiority to their various
foes, and during the latter quarter of the time this superiority, as already said, was very
marked, indeed; in consequence, the victories of the new enemy attracted an amount of attention
altogether disproportionate to their material effects. And it is a curious fact that our little
navy, in which the art of handling and fighting the old broadside, sailing frigate in single
conflict was brought to the highest point of perfection ever reached, that this same navy should
have contained the first representative of the modern war steamer, and also the torpedo--the
two terrible engines which were to drive from the ocean the very whitewinged craft that had
first won honor for the starry flag. The tactical skill of Hull or Decatur is now of merely
archaic interest, and has but little more bearing on the manoeuvring of a modern fleet than
have the tactics of the Athenian gallies. But the war still conveys some most practical lessons
as to the value of efficient ships and, above all, of efficient men in them. Had we only possessed
the miserable gun-boats, our men could have done nothing; had we not possessed good men, the
heavy frigates would have availed as little. Poor ships and impotent artillery had lost the
Dutch almost their entire navy; fine ships and heavy cannon had not saved the French and Spanish
from the like fate. We owed our success to putting sailors even better than the Dutch on ships
even finer than those built by the two Latin seaboard powers.

The first point to be remembered in order to write a fair account of this war is that the difference
in fighting skill, which certainly existed between the two parties, was due mainly to training,
and not to the nature of the men. It seems certain that the American had in the beginning somewhat
the advantage, because his surroundings, partly physical and partly social and political, had
forced him into habits of greater self-reliance. Therefore, on the average, he offered rather
the best material to start with; but the difference was very slight, and totally disappeared
under good training. The combatants were men of the same race, differing but little from one
another. On the New England coast the English blood was as pure as in any part of Britain;
in New York and New Jersey it was mixed with that of the Dutch settlers--and the Dutch are
by race nearer to the true old English of Alfred and Harold than are, for example, the thoroughly
anglicized Welsh of Cornwall. Otherwise, the infusion of new blood into the English race on
this side of the Atlantic has been chiefly from three sources--German, Irish, and Norse; and
these three sources represent the elemental parts of the composite English stock in about the
same proportions in which they were originally combined,--mainly Teutonic, largely Celtic,
and with a Scandinavian admixture. The descendant of the German becomes as much an Anglo-American
as the descendant of the Strathclyde Celt has already become an Anglo-Briton. Looking through
names of the combatants it would be difficult to find any of one navy that could not be matched
in the other--Hull or Lawrence, Allen, Perry, or Stewart. And among all the English names on
both sides will be found many Scotch, Irish, or Welsh--Macdonough, O'Brien, or Jones. Still
stranger ones appear: the Huguenot Tattnall is one among the American defenders of the Constellation,
and another Huguenot Tattnall is among the British assailants at Lake Borgne. It must always
be kept in mind that the Americans and the British are two substantially similar branches of
the great English race, which both before and after their separation have assimilated, and
made Englishmen of many other peoples. [Footnote: The inhabitants of Great Britain are best
designated as "British"--English being either too narrow or too broad a term, in one case meaning
the inhabitants of but a part of Britain, and in the other the whole Anglo-Saxon people.] The
lessons taught by the war can hardly be learned unless this identity is kept in mind. [Footnote:
It was practically a civil war, and was waged with much harshness and bitterness on both sides.
I have already spoken of the numerous grievances of the Americans; the British, in turn, looked
upon our blockade-runners which entered the French ports exactly as we regarded, at a later
date, the British steamers that ran into Wilmington and Charleston. It is curious to see how
illogical writers are. The careers of the Argus and Alabama for example, were strikingly similar
in many ways, yet the same writer who speaks of one as an "heroic little brig," will call the
other a "black pirate." Of course there can be no possible comparison as to the causes for
which the two vessels were fighting; but the cruises themselves were very much alike, both
in character and history.]

To understand aright the efficiency of our navy, it is necessary to take a brief look at the
character and antecedents of the officers and men who served in it.

When war broke out the United States Navy was but a few years old, yet it already had a far
from dishonorable history. The captains and lieutenants of 1812 had been taught their duties
in a very practical school, and the flag under which they fought was endeared to them already
by not a few glorious traditions--though these, perhaps, like others of their kind, had lost
none of their glory in the telling. A few of the older men had served in the war of the Revolution,
and all still kept fresh in mind the doughty deeds of the old-time privateering war craft.
Men still talked of Biddle's daring cruises and Barney's stubborn fights, or told of Scotch
Paul and the grim work they had who followed his fortunes. Besides these memories of an older
generation, most of the officers had themselves taken part, when younger in years and rank,
in deeds not a whit less glorious. Almost every man had had a share in some gallant feat, to
which he, in part at least, owed his present position. The captain had perhaps been a midshipman
under Truxtun when he took the Vengeance, and had been sent aboard the captured French frigate
with the prize-master; the lieutenant had borne a part in the various attacks on Tripoli, and
had led his men in the desperate hand-to-hand fights in which the Yankee cutlass proved an
overmatch for the Turkish and Moorish scimitars. Nearly every senior officer had extricated
himself by his own prowess or skill from the dangers of battle or storm; he owed his rank to
the fact that he had proved worthy of it. Thrown upon his own resources, he had learned self-reliance;
he was a first-rate practical seaman, and prided himself on the way his vessel was handled.
Having reached his rank by hard work, and knowing what real fighting meant, he was careful
to see that his men were trained in the essentials of discipline, and that they knew how to
handle the guns in battle as well as polish them in peace. Beyond almost any of his countrymen,
he worshipped the "Gridiron Flag," and, having been brought up in the Navy, regarded its honor
as his own. It was, perhaps, the Navy alone that thought itself a match, ship against ship,
for Great Britain. The remainder of the nation pinned its faith to the army, or rather to that
weakest of weak reeds, the militia. The officers of the navy, with their strong esprit de corps,
their jealousy of their own name and record, and the knowledge, by actual experience, that
the British ships sailed no faster and were no better handled than their own, had no desire
to shirk a conflict with any foe, and having tried their bravery in actual service, they made
it doubly formidable by cool, wary skill. Even the younger men, who had never been in action,
had been so well trained by the tried veterans over them that the lack of experience was not
sensibly felt.

The sailors comprising the crews of our ships were well worthy of their leaders. There was
no better seaman in the world than American Jack; he had been bred to his work from infancy,
and had been off in a fishing dory almost as soon as he could walk. When he grew older, he
shipped on a merchant-man or whaler, and in those warlike times, when our large merchant-marine
was compelled to rely pretty much on itself for protection, each craft had to be well handled;
all who were not were soon weeded out by a process of natural selection, of which the agents
were French picaroons, Spanish buccaneers, and Malay pirates. It was a rough school, but it
taught Jack to be both skilful and self-reliant; and he was all the better fitted to become
a man-of-war's man, because he knew more about fire-arms than most of his kind in foreign lands.
At home he had used his ponderous ducking gun with good effect on the flocks of canvasbacks
in the reedy flats of the Chesapeake, or among the sea-coots in the rough water off the New
England cliffs; and when he went on a sailing voyage the chances were even that there would
be some use for the long guns before he returned, for the American merchant sailor could trust
to no armed escort.

The wonderful effectiveness of our seamen at the date of which I am writing as well as long
subsequently to it was largely due to the curious condition of things in Europe. For thirty
years all the European nations had been in a state of continuous and very complicated warfare,
during the course of which each nation in turn fought almost every other, England being usually
at loggerheads with all. One effect of this was to force an enormous proportion of the carrying
trade of the world into American bottoms. The old Massachusetts town of Salem was then one
of the main depots of the East India trade; the Baltimore clippers carried goods into the French
and German ports with small regard to the blockade; New Bedford and Sag Harbor fitted out whalers
for the Arctic seas as well as for the South Pacific; the rich merchants of Philadelphia and
New York sent their ships to all parts of the world; and every small port had some craft in
the coasting trade. On the New England seaboard but few of the boys would reach manhood without
having made at least one voyage to the Newfoundland Banks after codfish; and in the whaling
towns of Long Island it used to be an old saying that no man could marry till he struck his
whale. The wealthy merchants of the large cities would often send their sons on a voyage or
two before they let them enter their counting-houses. Thus it came about that a large portion
of our population was engaged in seafaring pursuits of a nature strongly tending to develop
a resolute and hardy character in the men that followed them. The British merchant-men sailed
in huge convoys, guarded by men-of-war, while, as said before, our vessels went alone, and
relied for protection on themselves. If a fishing smack went to the Banks it knew that it ran
a chance of falling in with some not over-scrupulous Nova Scotian privateer. The barques that
sailed from Salem to the Spice Islands kept their men well trained both at great guns and musketry,
so as to be able to beat off either Malay proas, or Chinese junks. The New York ships, loaded
for the West Indies, were prepared to do battle with the picaroons that swarmed in the Spanish
main; while the fast craft from Baltimore could fight as well as they could run. Wherever an
American seaman went, he not only had to contend with all the legitimate perils of the sea,
but he had also to regard almost every stranger as a foe. Whether this foe called himself pirate
or privateer mattered but little. French, Spaniards, Algerines, Malays, from all alike our
commerce suffered, and against all, our merchants were forced to defend themselves. The effect
of such a state of things, which made commerce so remunerative that the bolder spirits could
hardly keep out of it, and so hazardous that only the most skilful and daring could succeed
in it, was to raise up as fine a set of seamen as ever manned a navy. The stern school in which
the American was brought up, forced him into habits of independent thought and action which
it was impossible that the more protected Briton could possess. He worked more intelligently
and less from routine, and while perfectly obedient and amenable to discipline, was yet able
to judge for himself in an emergency. He was more easily managed than most of his kind--being
shrewd, quiet, and, in fact, comparatively speaking, rather moral than otherwise; if he was
a New Englander, when he retired from a sea life he was not unapt to end his days as a deacon.
Altogether there could not have been better material for a fighting crew than cool, gritty
American Jack. Moreover, there was a good nucleus of veterans to begin with, who were well
fitted to fill the more responsible positions, such as captains of guns, etc. These were men
who had cruised in the little Enterprise after French privateers, who had been in the Constellation
in her two victorious fights, or who, perhaps, had followed Decatur when with only eighty men
he cut out the Philadelphia, manned by fivefold his force and surrounded by hostile batteries
and war vessels,--one of the boldest expeditions of the kind on record.

It is to be noted, furthermore, in this connection, that by a singular turn of fortune, Great
Britain, whose system of impressing American sailors had been one of the chief causes of the
war, herself became, in consequence of that very system, in some sort, a nursery for the seamen
of the young Republican navy. The American sailor feared nothing more than being impressed
on a British ship--dreading beyond measure the hard life and cruel discipline aboard of her;
but once there, he usually did well enough, and in course of time often rose to be of some
little consequence. For years before 1812, the number of these impressed sailors was in reality
greater than the entire number serving in the American navy, from which it will readily be
seen that they formed a good stock to draw upon. Very much to their credit, they never lost
their devotion to the home of their birth, more than two thousand of them being imprisoned
at the beginning of the war because they refused to serve against their country. When Commodore
Decatur captured the Macedonian, that officer, as we learn from Marshall's "Naval Biography"
(ii. 1019), stated that most of the seamen of his own frigate, the United States, had served
in British war vessels, and that some had been with Lord Nelson in the Victory, and had even
been bargemen to the great Admiral,--a pretty sure proof that the American sailors did not
show a disadvantage when compared with others. [Footnote: With perfect gravity, James and his
followers assume Decatur's statement to be equivalent to saying that he had chiefly British
seamen on board; whereas, even as quoted by Marshall, Decatur merely said that "his seamen
had served on board a British man-of-war," and that some "had served under Lord Nelson." Like
the Constitution, the United States had rid herself of most of the British subjects on board,
before sailing. Decatur's remark simply referred to the number of his American seamen who had
been impressed on board British ships. Whenever James says that an American ship had a large
proportion of British sailors aboard, the explanation is that a large number of the crew were
Americans who had been impressed on British ships. It would be no more absurd to claim Trafalgar
as an American victory because there was a certain number of Americans in Nelson's fleet, than
it is to assert that the Americans were victorious in 1812, because there were a few renegade
British on board their ships.]

Good seaman as the impressed American proved to be, yet he seldom missed an opportunity to
escape from the British service, by desertion or otherwise. In the first place, the life was
very hard, and, in the second, the American seaman was very patriotic. He had an honest and
deep affection for his own flag; while, on the contrary, he felt a curiously strong hatred
for England, as distinguished from Englishmen. This hatred was partly an abstract feeling,
cherished through a vague traditional respect for Bunker Hill, and partly something very real
and vivid, owing to the injuries he, and others like him, had received. Whether he lived in
Maryland or Massachusetts, he certainly knew men whose ships had been seized by British cruisers,
their goods confiscated, and the vessels condemned. Some of his friends had fallen victims
to the odious right of search, and had never been heard of afterward. He had suffered many
an injury to friend, fortune, or person, and some day he hoped to repay them all; and when
the war did come, he fought all the better because he knew it was in his own quarrel. But,
as I have said, this hatred was against England, not against Englishmen. Then, as now, sailors
were scattered about over the world without any great regard for nationality; and the resulting
intermingling of natives and foreigners in every mercantile marine was especially great in
those of Britain and America, whose people spoke the same tongue and wore the same aspect.
When chance drifted the American into Liverpool or London, he was ready enough to ship in an
Indiaman or whaler, caring little for the fact that he served under the British flag; and the
Briton, in turn, who found himself in New York or Philadelphia, willingly sailed in one of
the clipper-built barques, whether it floated the stars and stripes or not. When Captain Porter
wrought such havoc among the British whalers in the South Seas, he found that no inconsiderable
portion of their crews consisted of Americans, some of whom enlisted on board his own vessel;
and among the crews of the American whalers were many British. In fact, though the skipper
of each ship might brag loudly of his nationality, yet in practical life he knew well enough
that there was very little to choose between a Yankee and a Briton. [Footnote: What choice
there was, was in favor of the American. In point of courage there was no difference whatever.
The Essex and the Lawrence, as well as the Frolic and the Reindeer, were defended with the
same stubborn, desperate, cool bravery that marks the English race on both sides of the Atlantic.
But the American was a free citizen, any one's equal, a voter with a personal interest in his
country's welfare, and, above all, without having perpetually before his eyes the degrading
fear of the press-gang. In consequence, he was more tractable than the Englishman, more self-reliant,
and possessed greater judgment. In the fight between the Wasp and the Frolic, the latter's
crew had apparently been well trained at the guns, for they aimed well; but they fired at the
wrong time, and never corrected the error; while their antagonists, delivering their broadsides
far more slowly, by intelligently waiting until the proper moment, worked frightful havoc.
But though there was a certain slight difference between the seamen of the two nations, it
must never be forgotten that it was very much less than that between the various individuals
of the same nation; and when the British had been trained for a few years by such commanders
as Broke and Manners, it was impossible to surpass them, and it needed our best men to equal
them.] Both were bold and hardy, cool and intelligent, quick with their hands, and showing
at their best in an emergency. They looked alike and spoke alike; when they took the trouble
to think, they thought alike; and when they got drunk, which was not an infrequent occurrence,
they quarrelled alike.

Mingled with them were a few seamen of other nationalities. The Irishman, if he came from the
old Dano-Irish towns of Waterford, Dublin, and Wexford, or from the Ulster coast, was very
much like the two chief combatants; the Celto-Turanian kern of the west did not often appear
on shipboard. The French, Danes, and Dutch were hemmed in at home; they had enough to do on
their own seaboard, and could not send men into foreign fleets. A few Norse, however, did come
in, and excellent sailors and fighters they made. With the Portuguese and Italians, of whom
some were to be found serving under the union-jack, and others under the stars and stripes,
it was different; although there were many excellent exceptions they did not, as a rule, make
the best of seamen. They were treacherous, fond of the knife, less ready with their hands,
and likely to lose either their wits or their courage when in a tight place.

In the American navy, unlike the British, there was no impressment; the sailor was a volunteer,
and he shipped in whatever craft his fancy selected. Throughout the war there were no "picked
crews" on the American side, [Footnote: James' statements to the contrary being in every case
utterly without foundation. He is also wrong in his assertion that the American ships had no
boys; they had nearly as many in proportion as the British. The Constitution had 31, the Adams
15, etc. So, when he states that our midshipmen were generally masters and mates of merchantmen;
they were generally from eleven to seventeen years old at the beginning of the war, and besides,
had rarely or never been in the merchant marine.] excepting on the last two cruises of the
Constitution. In fact (as seen by the letter of Captains Stewart and Bainbridge to Secretary
Hamilton), there was often much difficulty in getting enough men. [Footnote: Reading through
the volumes of official letters about this war, which are preserved in the office of the Secretary
of the Navy, one of the most noticeable things is the continual complaints about the difficulty
of getting men. The Adams at one time had a crew of but nineteen men--"fourteen of whom are
marines," adds the aggrieved commander. A log-book of one of the gun-boats records the fact
that after much difficulty two men were enlisted--from the jail, with a parenthetical memorandum
to the effect that they were both very drunk. British ships were much more easily manned, as
they could always have recourse to impressment.

The Constitution on starting out her last cruises had an extraordinary number of able seamen
aboard, viz., 218, with but 92 ordinary seamen, 12 boys, and 44 marines, making, with the officers,
a total of 440 men. (See letter of Captain Bainbridge, Oct. 16, 1814; it is letter No. 51,
in the fortieth volume of "Captains' Letters," in the clerk's office of the Secretary of the
Navy.)] Many sailors preferred to serve in the innumerable privateers, and, the two above-mentioned
officers, in urging the necessity of building line-of-battle ships, state that it was hard
work to recruit men for vessels of an inferior grade, so long as the enemy had ships of the line.

One of the standard statements made by the British historians about this war is that our ships
were mainly or largely manned by British sailors. This, if true, would not interfere with the
lessons which it teaches; and, besides that, it is not true.

In this, as in every thing else, all the modern writers have merely followed James or Brenton,
and I shall accordingly confine myself to examining their assertions. The former begins (vol.
iv, p. 470) by diffidently stating that there is a "similarity" of language between the inhabitants
of the two countries--an interesting philological discovery that but few will attempt to controvert.
In vol. vi, p. 154, he mentions that a number of blanks occur in the American Navy List in
the column "Where Born"; and in proof of the fact that these blanks are there because the men
were not Americans, he says that their names "are all English and Irish." [Footnote: For example,
James writes: "Out of the 32 captains one only, Thomas Tingey, had England marked as his birthplace....
Three blanks occur, and we consider it rather creditable to Captains John Shaw, Daniel S. Patterson,
and John Ord Creighton, that they were ashamed to tell where they were born." I have not been
able to find out the latter's birth-place, but Captain Shaw was born in New York, and I have
seen Captain Patterson incidentally alluded to as "born and bred in America." Generally, whenever
I have been able to fill up the vacancies in the column "Where Born," I have found that it
was in America. From these facts it would appear that James was somewhat hasty in concluding
that the omission of the birth-place proved the owner of the name to be a native of Great Britain.]
They certainly are; and so are all the other names in the list. It could not well be otherwise,
as the United States Navy was not officered by Indians. In looking over this same Navy List
(of 1816) it will be seen that but a little over 5 per cent, of the officers were born abroad--a
smaller proportion by far than would exist in the population of the country at large--and most
of these had come to America when under ten years of age. On p. 155 James adds that the British
sailors composed "one third in number and one half in point of effectiveness" of the American
crews. Brenton in his "Naval History" writes: "It was said, and I have no reason to doubt the
fact, that there were 200 British seamen aboard the Constitution." [Footnote: New edition,
London, 1837, vol. ii, p. 456.] These statements are mere assertions unsupported by proof,
and of such a loose character as to be difficult to refute. As our navy was small, it may be
best to take each ship in turn. The only ones of which the British could write authoritatively
were, of course, those which they captured. The first one taken was the Wasp. James says many
British were discovered among her crew, instancing especially one sailor named Jack Lang; now
Jack Lang was born in the town of Brunswick, New Jersey, but had been impressed and forced
to serve in the British Navy. The same was doubtless true of the rest of the "many British"
seamen of her crew; at any rate, as the only instance James mentions (Jack Lang) was an American,
he can hardly be trusted for those whom he does not name.

Of the 95 men composing the crew of the Nautilus when she was captured, "6 were detained and
sent to England to await examination as being suspected of being British subjects." [Footnote:
Quoted from letter of Commodore Rodgers of September 12, 1812 (in Naval Archives, "Captains'
Letters," vol xxv, No. 43), enclosing a "List of American prisoners of war discharged out of
custody of Lieutenant William Miller, agent at the port of Halifax," in exchange for some of
the British captured by Porter. This list, by the way, shows the crew of the Nautilus (counting
the six men detained as British) to have been 95 in number, instead of 106, as stated by James.
Commodore Rodgers adds that he has detained 12 men of the Guerriere's crew as an offset to
the 6 men belonging to the Nautilus.] Of the other small brigs, the Viper, Vixen, Rattlesnake,
and Syren, James does not mention the composition of the crew, and I do not know that any were
claimed as British. Of the crew of the Argus "about 10 or 12 were believed to be British subjects;
the American officers swore the crew contained none" (James, "Naval Occurrences," p. 278).
From 0 to 10 per cent can be allowed. When the Frolic was captured "her crew consisted of native
Americans" (do, p. 340). James speaks ("History," p. 418) of "a portion of the British subjects
on board the Essex," but without giving a word of proof or stating his grounds of belief. One
man was claimed as a deserter by the British, but he turned out to be a New Yorker. There were
certainly a certain number of British aboard, but the number probably did not exceed thirty.
Of the President's crew he says ("Naval Occurrences," p. 448): "In the opinion of several British
officers there were among them many British seamen" but Commodore Decatur, Lieutenant Gallagher,
and the other officers swore that there were none. Of the crew of the Chesapeake, he says,
"about 32" were British subjects, or about 10 per cent. One or two of these were afterward
shot, and some 25, together with a Portuguese boatswain's mate, entered into the British service.
So that of the vessels captured by the British, the Chesapeake had the largest number of British
(about 10 per cent. of her crew) on board, the others ranging from that number down to none
at all, as in the case of the Wasp. As these eleven ships would probably represent a fair average,
this proportion, of 0 to 10 per cent., should be taken as the proper one. James, however, is
of the opinion that those ships manned by Americans were more apt to be captured than those
manned by the braver British; which calls for an examination of the crews of the remaining
vessels. Of the American sloop Peacock, James says ("Naval Occurrences," p. 348) that "several
of her men were recognized as British seamen"; even if this were true, "several" could not
probably mean more than sixteen, or 10 per cent. Of the second Wasp he says, "Captain Blakely
was a native of Dublin, and, along with some English and Scotch, did not, it may be certain,
neglect to have in his crew a great many Irish." Now Captain Blakely left Ireland when he was
but 16 months old, and the rest of James' statement is avowedly mere conjecture. It was asserted
positively in the American newspapers that the Wasp, which sailed from Portsmouth, was manned
exclusively by New Englanders, except a small draft of men from a Baltimore privateer, and
that there was not a foreigner in her crew. Of the Hornet James states that "some of her men
were natives of the United Kingdom"; but he gives no authority, and the men he refers to were
in all probability those spoken of in the journal of one of the Hornet's officers, which says
that "Many of our men (Americans) had been impressed in the British service." As regards the
gun-boats, James asserts that they were commanded by "Commodore Joshua Barney, a native of
Ireland." This officer, however, was born at Baltimore on July 6, 1759. As to the Constitution,
Brenton, as already mentioned, supposes the number of British sailors in her crew to have been
200; James makes it less, or about 150. Respecting this, the only definite statements I can
find in British works are the following: In the "Naval Chronicle," vol. xxix, p. 452, an officer
of the Java states that most of the Constitution's men were British, many being from the Guerriere;
which should be read in connection with James' statement (vol. vi, p. 156) that but eight of
the Guerriere's crew deserted, and but two shipped on board the Constitution. Moreover, as
a matter of fact, these eight men were all impressed Americans. In the "Naval Chronicle" it
is also said that the Chesapeake's surgeon was an Irishman, formerly of the British navy; he
was born in Baltimore, and was never in the British navy in his life. The third lieutenant
"was supposed to be an Irishman" (Brenton, ii, 456). The first lieutenant "was a native of
Great Britain, we have been informed" (James, vi, 194); he was Mr. George Parker, born and
bred in Virginia. The remaining three citations, if true, prove nothing. "One man had served
under Mr. Kent" of the Guerriere (James, vi, p. 153). "One had been in the Achille" and "one
in the Eurydice" (Brenton, ii, 456). These three men were most probably American seamen who
had been impressed on British ships. From Cooper (in "Putnam's Magazine," vol. I, p. 593) as
well as from several places in the Constitution's log, [Footnote: See her log-book (vol. ii,
Feb. 1, 1812 to Dec. 13, 1813); especially on July 12th, when twelve men were discharged. In
some of Hull's letters he alludes to the desire of the British part of the crew to serve on
the gun boats or in the ports; and then writes that "in accordance with the instructions sent
him by the Secretary of the Navy," he had allowed the British-born portion to leave the ship.
The log-books are in the Bureau of Navigation.] we learn that several of the crew who were
British deserters were discharged from the Constitution before she left port, as they were
afraid to serve in a war against Great Britain. That this fear was justifiable may be seen
by reading James, vol. iv, p. 483. Of the four men taken by the Leopard from the Chesapeake,
as deserters, one was hung and three scourged. In reality the crew of the Constitution probably
did not contain a dozen British sailors; in her last cruises she was manned almost exclusively
by New Englanders. The only remainder vessel is the United States, respecting whose crew some
remarkable statements have been made. Marshall (vol. ii, p. 1019) writes that Commodore Decatur
"declared there was not a seaman in his ship who had not served from 5 to 12 years in a British
man-of-war," from which he concludes that they were British themselves. It may be questioned
whether Decatur ever made such an assertion; or if he did, it is safe to assume again that
his men were long-impressed Americans. [Footnote: At the beginning of the war there were on
record in the American State Department 6,257 cases of impressed American seamen. These could
represent but a small part of the whole, which must have amounted to 20,000 men, or more than
sufficient to man our entire navy five times over. According to the British Admiralty Report
to the House of Commons, February 1, 1815, 2,548 impressed American seamen, who refused to
serve against their country, were imprisoned in 1812. According to Lord Castlereagh's speech
in the House, February 18, 1813, 3,300 men claiming to be American subjects were serving in
the British navy in January, 1811, and he certainly did not give any thing like the whole number.
In the American service the term of enlistment extended for two years, and the frigate, United
States, referred to, had not had her crew for any very great length of time as yet. If such
a crew were selected at random from American sailors, among them there would be, owing to the
small number serving in our own navy and the enormous number impressed into the British navy,
probably but one of the former to two of the latter. As already mentioned the American always
left a British man-of-war as soon as he could, by desertion or discharge; but he had no unwillingness
to serve in the home navy, where the pay was larger, and the discipline far more humane, not
to speak of motives of patriotism. Even if the ex-British man-of-war's man kept out of service
for some time, he would be very apt to enlist when a war broke out, which his country undertook
largely to avenge his own wrongs.]

Of the Carolina's crew of 70 men, five were British. This fact was not found out till three
deserted, when an investigation was made and the two other British discharged. Captain Henly,
in reporting these facts, made no concealment of his surprise that there should be any British
at all in his crew. [Footnote: See his letter in "Letters of Masters' Commandant," 1814, I.
No. 116.]

From these facts and citations we may accordingly conclude that the proportion of British seamen
serving on American ships after the war broke out, varied between none, as on the Wasp and
Constitution, to ten per cent., as on the Chesapeake and Essex. On the average, nine tenths
of each of our crews were American seamen, and about one twentieth British, the remainder being
a mixture of various nationalities.

On the other hand, it is to be said that the British frigate Guerriere had ten Americans among
her crew, who were permitted to go below during action, and the Macedonian eight, who were
not allowed that privilege, three of them being killed. Three of the British sloop Peacock's
men were Americans, who were forced to fight against the Hornet: one of them was killed. Two
of the Epervier's men were Americans, who were also forced to fight. When the crew of the Nautilus
was exchanged, a number of other American prisoners were sent with them; among these were a
number of American seamen who had been serving in the Shannon, Acasta, Africa, and various
other vessels. So there was also a certain proportion of Americans among the British crews,
although forming a smaller percentage of them than the British did on board the American ships.
In neither case was the number sufficient to at all affect the result.

The crews of our ships being thus mainly native Americans, it may be interesting to try to
find out the proportions that were furnished by the different sections of the country. There
is not much difficulty about the officers. The captains, masters commandant, lieutenants, marine
officers, whose birthplaces are given in the Navy List of 1816,--240 in all,--came from the
various States as follows:

              .- N.H..   5-.
              |  Mass.. 20 |
New England  -|  R.I.   11 |- 42
              '- Conn..  6-'

              .- N.Y..  17-.
              |  N.J..  22 |
Middle States-|  Penn.. 35 |- 78
              '- Del..   4-'

District of Columbia -[D.C..  4]- 4

                .- Md..   46-.
                |  Va..   42 |
                |  N.C..   4 |
Southern States-|  S.C..  16 |-116
                |  Ga..    2 |
                |  La..    4 |
                '- Ky..    2-'
                               ---------
Total of given birthplaces      240

Thus, Maryland furnished, both absolutely and proportionately, the greatest number of officers,
Virginia, then the most populous of all the States, coming next; four fifths of the remainder
came from the Northern States.

It is more difficult to get at the birthplaces of the sailors. Something can be inferred from
the number of privateers and letters of marque fitted out. Here Baltimore again headed the
list; following closely came New York, Philadelphia, and the New England coast towns, with,
alone among the Southern ports, Charleston, S.C. A more accurate idea of the quotas of sailors
furnished by the different sections can be arrived at by comparing the total amount of tonnage
the country possessed at the outbreak of the war. Speaking roughly, 44 per cent, of it belonged
to New England, 32 per cent, to the Middle States, and 11 per cent, to Maryland. This makes
it probable (but of course not certain) that three fourths of the common sailors hailed from
the Northern States, half the remainder from Maryland, and the rest chiefly from Virginia and
South Carolina.

Having thus discussed somewhat at length the character of our officers and crews, it will now
be necessary to present some statistical tables to give a more accurate idea of the composition
of the navy; the tonnage, complements, and armaments of the ships, etc.

At the beginning of the war the Government possessed six navy-yards (all but the last established
in 1801) as follows: [Footnote: Report of Naval Secretary Jones, Nov. 30. 1814.]

       Place               Original Cost.          Minimum number of
                                                    men employed.

1. Portsmouth. N. H.,           $ 5,500                    10

2. Charleston, Mass.,            39,214                    20

3. New York,                     40,000                   102

4. Philadelphia,                 37,000                    13

5. Washington,                    4,000                    36

6. Gosport,                      12,000                    16

In 1812 the following was the number of officers in the navy: [Footnote: "List of Vessels"
etc., by Gen. H Preble U.S.N (1874)]

 12 captains
 10 masters commandant
 73 lieutenants
 53 masters
310 midshipmen
 42 marine officers
-----
500

At the opening of the year, the number of seamen, ordinary seamen, and boys in service was
4,010, and enough more were recruited to increase it to 5,230, of whom only 2,346 were destined
for the cruising war vessels, the remainder being detailed for forts, gun-boats, navy yards,
the lakes, etc. [Footnote: Report of Secretary Paul Hamilton, Feb. 21, 1812.] The marine corps
was already ample, consisting of 1,523 men. [Footnote: Ibid.]

No regular navy lists were published till 1816, and I have been able to get very little information
respecting the increase in officers and men during 1813 and 1814; but we have full returns
for 1815, which may be summarized as follows: [Footnote: Seybert's "Statistical Annals," p.
676 (Philadelphia, 1818)]

     30 captains,
     25 masters commandant,
    141 lieutenants,
     24 commanders,
    510 midshipmen,
    230 sailing-masters,
     50 surgeons,
     12 chaplains,
     50 pursers,
     10 coast pilots,
     45 captain's clerks,
     80 surgeon's mates,
    530 boatswains, gunners, carpenters, and sailmakers,
    268 boatswain's mates, gunner's mates, etc.,
  1,106 quarter gunners, etc.,
  5,000 able seamen,
  6,849 ordinary seamen and boys.
        Making a total of 14,960, with 2,715 marines.
[Footnote: Report of Secretary B. W. Crowninshield, April 18, 1816.]

Comparing this list with the figures given before, it can be seen that during the course of
the war our navy grew enormously, increasing to between three and four times its original size.

At the beginning of the year 1812, the navy of the United States on the ocean consisted of
the following vessels, which either were, or could have been, made available during the war.
[Footnote: Letter of Secretary Benjamin Stoddart to Fifth Congress, Dec. 24, 1798; Letter of
Secretary Paul Hamilton, Feb. 21, 1812; "American State Papers," vol. xix, p. 149. See also
The "History of the Navy of the United States," by Lieut. G. E. Emmons, U. S. N. (published
in Washington, MDCCCLIII, under the authority of the Navy Department.)]

 Rate                                    When
(Guns).     Name.         Where Built.   Built.  Tonnage.   Cost.
  44    United States,  Philadelphia,   1797     1576   $299,336
  44    Constitution,   Boston,         1797     1576    302,718
  44    President,      New York,       1800     1576    220,910
  38    Constellation,  Baltimore,      1797     1265    314,212
  38    Congress,       Portsmouth,     1799     1268    197,246
  38    Chesapeake,     Norfolk,        1799     1244    220,677
  32    Essex,          Salem,          1799      860    139,362
  28    Adams,          New York,       1799      560     76,622
  18    Hornet,         Baltimore,      1805      480     52,603
  18    Wasp,           Washington,     1806      450     40,000
  16    Argus,          Boston,         1803      298     37,428
  16    Syren,          Philadelphia,   1803      250     32,521
  14    Nautilus,       Baltimore,      1803      185     18,763
  14    Vixen,          Baltimore,      1803      185     20,872
  12    Enterprise,     Baltimore,      1799      165     16,240
  12    Viper,          Purchased,      1810      148

There also appeared on the lists the New York, 36, Boston, 28, and John Adams, 28. The two
former were condemned hulks; the latter was entirely rebuilt after the war. The Hornet was
originally a brig of 440 tons, and 18 guns; having been transformed into a ship, she was pierced
for 20 guns, and in size was of an intermediate grade between the Wasp and the heavy sloops,
built somewhat later, of 509 tons. Her armament consisted of 32-pound carronades, with the
exception of the two bow-guns, which were long 12's. The whole broadside was in nominal weight
just 300 pounds; in actual weight about 277 pounds. Her complement of men was 140, but during
the war she generally left port with 150. [Footnote: In the Hornet's log of Oct. 25, 1812,
while in port, it is mentioned that she had 158 men; four men who were sick were left behind
before she started. (See, in the Navy Archives, the Log-book, Hornet, Wasp, and Argus, July
20, 1809, to Oct. 6, 1813.)] The Wasp had been a ship from the beginning, mounted the number
of guns she rated (of the same calibres as the Hornet's) and carried some ten men less. She
was about the same length as the British 18-gun brig-sloop, but, being narrower, measured nearly
30 tons less. The Argus and Syren were similar and very fine brigs, the former being the longer.
Each carried two more guns than she rated; and the Argus, in addition, had a couple thrust
through the bridle-ports. The guns were 24-pound carronades, with two long 12's for bow-chasers.
The proper complement of men was 100, but each sailed usually with about 125. The four smaller
craft were originally schooners, armed with the same number of light long guns as they rated,
and carrying some 70 men apiece; but they had been very effectually ruined by being changed
into brigs, with crews increased to a hundred men. Each was armed with 18-pound carronades,
carrying two more than she rated. The Enterprise, in fact, mounted 16 guns, having two long
nines thrust through the bridle-ports. These little brigs were slow, not very seaworthy, and
overcrowded with men and guns; they all fell into the enemy's hands without doing any good
whatever, with the single exception of the Enterprise, which escaped capture by sheer good
luck, and in her only battle happened to be pitted against one of the corresponding and equally
bad class of British gun-brigs. The Adams after several changes of form finally became a flush-decked
corvette. The Essex had originally mounted twenty-six long 12's on her main-deck, and sixteen
24-pound carronades on her spar-deck; but official wisdom changed this, giving her 46 guns,
twenty-four 32-pound carronades, and two long 12's on the main-deck, and sixteen 32-pound carronades
with four long 12's on the spar-deck. When Captain Porter had command of her he was deeply
sensible of the disadvantages of an armament which put him at the mercy of any ordinary antagonist
who could choose his distance; accordingly he petitioned several times, but always without
success, to have his long 12's returned to him.

The American 38's were about the size of the British frigates of the same rate, and armed almost
exactly in the same way, each having 28 long 18's on the main-deck and 20 32-pound carronades
on the spar-deck. The proper complement was 300 men, but each carried from 30 to 80 more. [Footnote:
The Chesapeake, by some curious mistake, was frequently rated as a 44, and this drew in its
train a number of attendant errors. When she was captured, James says that in one of her lockers
was found a letter, dated in February, 1811, from Robert Smith, the Secretary of War, to Captain
Evans, at Boston, directing him to open houses of rendezvous for manning the Chesapeake, and
enumerating her crew at a total of 443. Naturally this gave British historians the idea that
such was the ordinary complement of our 38-gun frigates. But the ordering so large a crew was
merely a mistake, as may be seen by a letter from Captain Bainbridge to the Secretary of the
Navy, which is given in full in the "Captains' Letters," vol. xxv. No. 19 (Navy Archives).
In it he mentions the extraordinary number of men ordered for the Chesapeake, saying, "There
is a mistake in the crew ordered for the Chesapeake, as it equals in number the crews of our
44-gun frigates, whereas the Chesapeake is of the class of the Congress and Constellation."]

Our three 44-gun ships were the finest frigates then afloat (although the British possessed
some as heavy, such as the Egyptienne, 44). They were beautifully modelled, with very thick
scantling, extremely stout masts, and heavy cannon. Each carried on her main-deck thirty long
24's, and on her spar-deck two long bow-chasers, and twenty or twenty-two carronades--42-pounders
on the President and United States, 32-pounders on the Constitution. Each sailed with a crew
of about 450 men--50 in excess of the regular complement. [Footnote: The President when in
action with the Endymion had 450 men aboard, as sworn by Decatur; the muster-roll of the Constitution,
a few days before her action with the Guerriere contains 464 names (including 51 marines);
8 men were absent in a prize, so she had aboard in the action 456. Her muster-roll just before
the action with the Cyane and Levant shows 461 names.]

It may be as well to mention here the only other class of vessels that we employed during the
war. This was composed of the ship-sloops built in 1813, which got to sea in 1814. They were
very fine vessels, measuring 509 tons apiece, [Footnote: The dimensions were 117 feet 11 inches
upon the gun-deck, 97 feet 6 inches keel for tonnage, measuring from one foot before the forward
perpendicular and along the base line to the front of the rabbet of the port, deducting 3/5
of the moulded breadth of the beam, which is 31 feet 6 inches; making 509 21/95 tons. (See
in Navy Archives, "Contracts," vol. ii. p. 137.)] with very thick scantling and stout masts
and spars. Each carried twenty 32-pound carronades and two long 12's with a crew nominally
of 160 men, but with usually a few supernumeraries. [Footnote: The Peacock had 166 men, as
we learn from her commander Warrington's letter of June 1st (Letter No. 140 in "Masters' Commandant
Letters," 1814, vol. i). The Frolic took aboard "10 or 12 men beyond her regular complement"
(see letter of Joseph Bainbridge, No. 51, in same vol.). Accordingly when she was captured
by the Orpheus, the commander of the latter, Captain Hugh Pigot, reported the number of men
aboard to be 171. The Wasp left port with 173 men, with which she fought her first action;
she had a much smaller number aboard in her second.]

The British vessels encountered were similar, but generally inferior, to our own. The only
24-pounder frigate we encountered was the Endymion of about a fifth less force than the President.
Their 38-gun frigates were almost exactly like ours, but with fewer men in crew as a rule.
They were three times matched against our 44-gun frigates, to which they were inferior about
as three is to four. Their 36-gun frigates were larger than the Essex, with a more numerous
crew, but the same number of guns; carrying on the lower deck, however, long 18's instead of
32-pound carronades,--a much more effective armament. The 32-gun frigates were smaller, with
long 12's on the main-deck. The largest sloops were also frigate-built, carrying twenty-two
32-pound carronades on the main-deck, and twelve lighter guns on the quarter-deck and forecastle,
with a crew of 180. The large flush-decked ship-sloops carried 21 or 23 guns, with a crew of
140 men. But our vessels most often came in contact with the British 18-gun brig-sloop; this
was a tubby craft, heavier than any of our brigs, being about the size of the Hornet. The crew
consisted of from 110 to 135 men; ordinarily each was armed with sixteen 32-pound carronades,
two long 6's, and a shifting 12-pound carronade; often with a light long gun as a stern-chaser,
making 20 in all. The Reindeer and Peacock had only 24-pound carronades; the Epervier had but
eighteen guns, all carronades. [Footnote: The Epervier was taken into our service under the
same name and rate. Both Preble and Emmons describe her as of 477 tons. Warrington, her captor,
however, says: "The surveyor of the port has just measured the Epervier and reports her 467
tons." (In the Navy Archives, "Masters' Commandant Letters," 1814, i. No. 125.) For a full
discussion of tonnage, see Appendix, A.]

Among the stock accusations against our navy of 1812, were, and are, statements that our vessels
were rated at less than their real force, and in particular that our large frigates were "disguised
line-of-battle ships." As regards the ratings, most vessels of that time carried more guns
than they rated; the disparity was less in the French than in either the British or American
navies. Our 38-gun frigates carried 48 guns, the exact number the British 38's possessed. The
worst case of underrating in our navy was the Essex, which rated 32, and carried 46 guns, so
that her real was 44 per cent, in excess of her nominal force; but this was not as bad as the
British sloop Cyane, which was rated a 20 or 22, and carried 34 guns, so that she had either
55 or 70 per cent, greater real than nominal force. At the beginning of the war we owned two
18-gun ship-sloops, one mounting 18 and the other 20 guns; the 18-gun brig-sloops they captured
mounted each 19 guns, so the average was the same. Later we built sloops that rated 18 and
mounted 22 guns, but when one was captured it was also put down in the British navy list as
an 18-gun ship-sloop. During all the combats of the war there were but four vessels that carried
as few guns as they rated. Two were British, the Epervier and Levant, and two American, the
Wasp and Adams. One navy was certainly as deceptive as another, as far as underrating went.

The force of the statement that our large frigates were disguised line-of-battle ships, of
course depends entirely upon what the words "frigate" and "line-of-battle ship" mean. When
on the 10th of August, 1653, De Ruyter saved a great convoy by beating off Sir George Ayscough's
fleet of 38 sail, the largest of the Dutch admiral's "33 sail of the line" carried but 30 guns
and 150 men, and his own flag-ship but 28 guns and 134 men. [Footnote: La Vie et les Actions
Memorables du Sr. Michel de Ruyter, a Amsterdam, Chez Henry et Theodore Boom. MDCLXXVII. The
work is by Barthelemy Pielat, a surgeon in de Ruyter's fleet, and personally present during
many of his battles. It is written in French, but is in tone more strongly anti-French than
anti-English.] The Dutch book from which this statement is taken speaks indifferently of frigates
of 18, 40, and 58 guns. Toward the end of the eighteenth century the terms had crystallized.
Frigate then meant a so-called single-decked ship; it in reality possessed two decks, the main-
or gun-deck, and the upper one, which had no name at all, until our sailors christened it spar-deck.
The gun-deck possessed a complete battery, and the spar-deck an interrupted one, mounting guns
on the forecastle and quarter-deck. At that time all "two-decked" or "three-decked" (in reality
three- and four-decked) ships were liners. But in 1812 this had changed somewhat; as the various
nations built more and more powerful vessels, the lower rates of the different divisions were
dropped. Thus the British ship Cyane, captured by the Constitution, was in reality a small
frigate, with a main-deck battery of 22 guns, and 12 guns on the spar-deck; a few years before
she would have been called a 24-gun frigate, but she then ranked merely as a 22-gun sloop.
Similarly the 50- and 64-gun ships that had fought in the line at the Doggerbank, Camperdown,
and even at Aboukir, were now no longer deemed fit for the purpose, and the 74 was the lowest
line-of-battle ship.

The Constitution, President, and States must then be compared with the existing European vessels
that were classed as frigates. The French in 1812 had no 24-pounder frigates, for the very
good reason that they had all fallen victims to the English 18-pounder's; but in July of that
year a Danish frigate, the Nayaden, which carried long 24's, was destroyed by the English ship
Dictator, 64.

The British frigates were of several rates. The lowest rated 32, carrying in all 40 guns, 26
long 12's on the main-deck and 14 24-pound carronades on the spar-deck--a broadside of 324
pounds. [Footnote: In all these vessels there were generally two long 6's or 9's substituted
for the bow-chase carronades.] The 36-gun frigates, like the Phoebe, carried 46 guns, 26 long
18's on the gun-deck and 32-pound carronades above. The 38-gun frigates, like the Macedonian,
carried 48 or 49 guns, long 18's below and 32-pound carronades above. The 32-gun frigates,
then, presented in broadside 13 long 12's below and 7 24-pound carronades above; the 38-gun
frigates, 14 long 18's below and 10 32-pound carronades above; so that a 44-gun frigate would
naturally present 15 long 24's and 12 42-pound carronades above, as the United States did at
first. The rate was perfectly proper, for French, British, and Danes already possessed 24-pounder
frigates; and there was really less disparity between the force and rate of a 44 that carried
54 guns than there was in a 38 that carried 49, or, like the Shannon, 52. Nor was this all.
Two of our three victories were won by the Constitution, which only carried 32-pound carronades,
and once 54 and once 52 guns; and as two thirds of the work was thus done by this vessel, I
shall now compare her with the largest British frigates. Her broadside force consisted of 15
long 24's on the main-deck, and on the spar-deck one long 24, and in one case 10, in the other
11 32-pound carronades--a broadside of 704 or 736 pounds. [Footnote: Nominally; in reality
about 7 per cent, less on account of the short weight in the metal.] There was then in the
British navy the Acasta, 40, carrying in broadside 15 long 18's and 11 32-pound carronades;
when the spar-deck batteries are equal, the addition of 90 pounds to the main-deck broadside
(which is all the superiority of the Constitution over the Acasta) is certainly not enough
to make the distinction between a frigate and a disguised 74. But not considering the Acasta,
there were in the British navy three 24-pounder frigates, the Cornwallis, Indefatigable, and
Endymion. We only came in contact with the latter in 1815, when the Constitution had but 52
guns. The Endymion then had an armament of 28 long 24's, 2 long 18's, and 20 32-pound carronades,
making a broadside of 674 pounds, [Footnote: According to James 664 pounds; he omits the chase
guns for no reason.] or including a shifting 24-pound carronade, of 698 pounds--just six pounds,
or 1 per cent, less than the force of that "disguised line-of-battle ship" the Constitution!
As the Endymion only rated as a 40, and the Constitution as a 44, it was in reality the former
and not the latter which was underrated. I have taken the Constitution, because the British
had more to do with her than they did with our other two 44's taken together. The latter were
both of heavier metal than the Constitution, carrying 42-pound carronades. In 1812 the United
States carried her full 54 guns, throwing a broadside of 846 pounds; when captured, the President
carried 53, having substituted a 24-pound carronade for two of her 42's, and her broadside
amounted to 828 pounds, or 16 per cent nominal, and, on account of the short weight of her
shot, 9 per cent, real excess over the Endymion. If this difference made her a line-of-battle
ship, then the Endymion was doubly a line-of-battle ship compared to the Congress or Constellation.
Moreover, the American commanders found their 42-pound carronades too heavy; as I have said
the Constitution only mounted 32's, and the United States landed 6 of her guns. When, in 1813,
she attempted to break the blockade, she carried but 48 guns, throwing a broadside of 720 pounds--just
3 per cent more than the Endymion. [Footnote: It was on account of this difference of 3 per
cent that Captain Hardy refused to allow the Endymion to meet the States (James, vi. p. 470).
This was during the course of some challenges and counter-challenges which ended in nothing,
Decatur in his turn being unwilling to have the Macedonian meet the Statira, unless the latter
should agree not to take on a picked crew. He was perfectly right in this; but he ought never
to have sent the challenge at all, as two ships but an hour or two out of port would be at
a frightful disadvantage in a fight.] If our frigates were line-of-battle ships the disguise
was certainly marvellously complete, and they had a number of companions equally disguised
in the British ranks.

The 44's were thus true frigates, with one complete battery of long guns and one interrupted
one of carronades. That they were better than any other frigates was highly creditable to our
ingenuity and national skill. We cannot, perhaps, lay claim to the invention and first use
of the heavy frigate, for 24-pounder frigates were already in the service of at least three
nations, and the French 36-pound carronnade, in use on their spar-decks, threw a heavier ball
than our 42-pounder. But we had enlarged and perfected the heavy frigate, and were the first
nation that ever used it effectively. The French Forte and the Danish Nayaden shared the fate
of ships carrying guns of lighter calibre; and the British 24-pounders, like the Endymion,
had never accomplished any thing. Hitherto there had been a strong feeling, especially in England,
that an 18-pound gun was as effective as a 24- in arming a frigate; we made a complete revolution
in this respect. England had been building only 18-pounder vessels when she ought to have been
building 24-pounders. It was greatly to our credit that our average frigate was superior to
the average British frigate; exactly as it was to our discredit that the Essex was so ineffectively
armed. Captain Porter owed his defeat chiefly to his ineffective guns, but also to having lost
his topmast, to the weather being unfavorable, and, still more, to the admirable skill with
which Hilyar used his superior armament. The Java, Macedonian, and Guerriere owed their defeat
partly to their lighter guns, but much more to the fact that their captains and seamen did
not display either as good seamanship or as good gunnery as their foes. Inferiority in armament
was a factor to be taken into account in all the four cases, but it was more marked in that
of the Essex than in the other three; it would have been fairer for Porter to say that he had
been captured by a line-of-battle ship, than for the captain of the Java to make that assertion.
In this last case the forces of the two ships compared almost exactly as their rates. A 44
was matched against a 38; it was not surprising that she should win, but it was surprising
that she should win with ease and impunity. The long 24's on the Constitution's gun-deck no
more made her a line-of-battle ship than the 32-pound carronades mounted on an English frigate's
quarter-deck and forecastle made her a line-of-battle ship when opposed to a Frenchman with
only 8's and 6's on his spar-deck. When, a few years before, the English Phoebe had captured
the French Nereide, their broadsides were respectively 407 and 258 pounds, a greater disparity
than in any of our successful fights; yet no author thought of claiming that the Phoebe was
any thing but a frigate. So with the Clyde, throwing 425 lbs., which took the Vestale, throwing
but 246. The facts were that 18-pounder frigates had captured 12-pounders, exactly as our 24-pounders
in turn captured the 18-pounders.

Shortly before Great Britain declared war on us, one of her 18-pounder frigates, the San Florenzo,
throwing 476 lbs. in a broadside, captured the 12-pounder French frigate Psyche, whose broadside
was only 246 lbs. The force of the former was thus almost double that of the latter, yet the
battle was long and desperate, the English losing 48 and the French 124 men. This conflict,
then, reflected as much credit on the skill and seamanship of the defeated as of the victorious
side; the difference in loss could fairly be ascribed to the difference in weight of metal.
But where, as in the famous ship-duels of 1812, the difference in force is only a fifth, instead
of a half and yet the slaughter, instead of being as five is to two, is as six to one, then
the victory is certainly to be ascribed as much to superiority in skill as to superiority in
force. But, on the other hand, it should always be remembered that there was a very decided
superiority in force. It is a very discreditable feature of many of our naval histories that
they utterly ignore this superiority, seeming ashamed to confess that it existed. In reality
it was something to be proud of. It was highly to the credit of the United States that her
frigates were of better make and armament than any others; it always speaks well for a nation's
energy and capacity that any of her implements of warfare are of superior kind. This is a perfectly
legitimate reason for pride.

It spoke well for the Prussians in 1866 that they opposed breech-loaders to the muzzle-loaders
of the Austrians; but it would be folly to give all the credit of the victory to the breech-loaders
and none to Moltke and his lieutenants. Thus, it must remembered that two things contributed
to our victories. One was the excellent make and armament of our ships; the other was the skilful
seamanship, excellent discipline, and superb gunnery of the men who were in them. British writers
are apt only to speak of the first, and Americans only of the last, whereas both should be
taken into consideration.

To sum up: the American 44-gun frigate was a true frigate, in build and armament, properly
rated, stronger than a 38-gun frigate just about in the proportion of 44 to 38, and not exceeding
in strength an 18-pounder frigate as much as the latter exceeded one carrying 12-pounders.
They were in no way whatever line-of-battle ships; but they were superior to any other frigates
afloat, and, what is still more important, they were better manned and commanded than the average
frigate of any other navy. Lord Codrington says ("Memoirs," i, p. 310): "But I well know the
system of favoritism and borough corruption prevails so very much that many people are promoted
and kept in command that should be dismissed the service, and while such is the case the few
Americans chosen for their merit may be expected to follow up their successes except where
they meet with our best officers on even terms." [Footnote: To show that I am not quoting an
authority biassed in our favor I will give Sir Edward Codrington's opinion of our rural better
class (i, 318). "It is curious to observe the animosity which prevails here among what is called
the better order of people, which I think is more a misnomer here than in any other country
I have ever been. Their whig and tory are democrat and federalist, and it would seem for the
sake of giving vent to that bitterness of hatred which marks the Yankee character, every gentleman
(God save the term) who takes possession of a property adopts the opposite political creed
to that of his nearest neighbor."] The small size of our navy was probably to a certain extent
effective in keeping it up to a high standard; but this is not the only explanation, as can
be seen by Portugal's small and poor navy. On the other hand, the champions or pick of a large
navy ought to be better than the champions of a small one. [Footnote: In speaking of tonnage
I wish I could have got better authority than James for the British side of the question. He
is so bitter that it involuntarily gives one a distrust of his judgment. Thus, in speaking
of the Penguin's capture, he, in endeavoring to show that the Hornet's loss was greater than
she acknowledged, says, "several of the dangerously wounded were thrown overboard because the
surgeon was afraid to amputate, owing to his want of experience" ("Naval Occurrences," 492).
Now what could persuade a writer to make such a foolish accusation? No matter how utterly depraved
and brutal Captain Biddle might be, he would certainly not throw his wounded over alive because
he feared they might die. Again, in vol. vi, p. 546, he says: "Captain Stewart had caused the
Cyane to be painted to resemble a 36-gun frigate. The object of this was to aggrandize his
exploit in the eyes of the gaping citizens of Boston." No matter how skilful an artist Captain
Stewart was, and no matter how great the gaping capacities of the Bostonians, the Cyane (which
by the way went to New York and not Boston) could no more be painted to look like a 36-gun
frigate than a schooner could be painted to look like a brig. Instances of rancor like these
two occur constantly in his work, and make it very difficult to separate what is matter of
fact from what is matter of opinion. I always rely on the British official accounts when they
can be reached, except in the case of the Java, which seem garbled. That such was sometimes
the case with British officials is testified to by both James (vol. iv, p. 17) and Brenton
(vol. ii, p. 454, note). From the "Memoir of Admiral Broke" we learn that his public letter
was wrong in a number of particulars. See also any one of the numerous biographies of Lord
Dundonald, the hero of the little Speedy's fight. It is very unfortunate that the British stopped
publishing official accounts of their defeats; it could not well help giving rise to unpleasant
suspicions.

It may be as well to mention here, again, that James' accusations do not really detract from
the interest attaching to the war, and its value for purposes of study. If, as he says, the
American commanders were cowards, and their crews renegades, it is well worth while to learn
the lesson that good training will make such men able to beat brave officers with loyal crews.
And why did the British have such bad average crews as he makes out? He says, for instance,
that the Java's was unusually bad; yet Brenton says (vol. ii, p. 461) it was like "the generality
of our crews." It is worth while explaining the reason that such a crew was generally better
than a French and worse than an American one.]

Again, the armaments of the American as well as of the British ships were composed of three
very different styles of guns. The first, or long gun, was enormously long and thick-barrelled
in comparison to its bore, and in consequence very heavy; it possessed a very long range, and
varied in calibre from two to forty-two pounds. The ordinary calibres in our navy were 6, 9,
12, 18, and 24. The second style was the carronade, a short, light gun of large bore; compared
to a long gun of the same weight it carried a much heavier ball for a much shorter distance.
The chief calibres were 9, 12, 18, 24, 32, 42, and 68-pounders, the first and the last being
hardly in use in our navy. The third style was the columbiad, of an intermediate grade between
the first two. Thus it is seen that a gun of one style by no means corresponds to a gun of
another style of the same calibre. As a rough example, a long 12, a columbiad 18, and a 32-pound
carronade would be about equivalent to one another. These guns were mounted on two different
types of vessel. The first was flush-decked; that is, it had a single straight open deck on
which all the guns were mounted. This class included one heavy corvette, (the Adams), the ship-sloops,
and the brig-sloops. Through the bow-chase port, on each side, each of these mounted a long
gun; the rest of their guns were carronades, except in the case of the Adams, which had all
long guns. Above these came the frigates, whose gun-deck was covered above by another deck;
on the fore and aft parts (forecastle and quarter-deck) of this upper, open deck were also
mounted guns. The main-deck guns were all long, except on the Essex, which had carronades;
on the quarter-deck were mounted carronades, and on the forecastle also carronades, with two
long bow-chasers.

Where two ships of similar armament fought one another, it is easy to get the comparative force
by simply comparing the weight in broadsides, each side presenting very nearly the same proportion
of long guns to carronades. For such a broadside we take half the guns mounted in the ordinary
way; and all guns mounted on pivots or shifting. Thus Perry's force in guns was 54 to Barclay's
63; yet each presented 34 in broadside. Again, each of the British brig-sloops mounted 19 guns,
presenting 10 in broadside. Besides these, some ships mounted bow-chasers run through the bridle-ports,
or stern-chasers, neither of which could be used in broadsides. Nevertheless, I include them,
both because it works in about an equal number of cases against each navy, and because they
were sometimes terribly effective. James excludes the Guerriere's bow-chaser; in reality he
ought to have included both it and its fellow, as they worked more damage than all the broadside
guns put together. Again, he excludes the Endymion's bow-chasers, though in her action they
proved invaluable. Yet he includes those of the Enterprise and Argus, though the former's were
probably not fired. So I shall take the half of the fixed, plus all the movable guns aboard,
in comparing broadside force.

But the chief difficulty appears when guns of one style are matched against those of another.
If a ship armed with long 12's, meets one armed with 32-pound carronades, which is superior
in force? At long range the first, and at short range the second; and of course each captain
is pretty sure to insist that "circumstances" forced him to fight at a disadvantage. The result
would depend largely on the skill or luck of each commander in choosing position.

One thing is certain; long guns are more formidable than carronades of the same calibre. There
are exemplifications of this rule on both sides; of course, American writers, as a rule, only
pay attention to one set of cases, and British to the others. The Cyane and Levant threw a
heavier broadside than the Constitution but were certainly less formidably armed; and the Essex
threw a heavier broadside than the Phoebe, yet was also less formidable. On Lake Ontario the
American ship General Pike threw less metal at a broadside than either of her two chief antagonists,
but neither could be called her equal; while on Lake Champlain a parallel case is afforded
by the British ship Confiance. Supposing that two ships throw the same broadside weight of
metal, one from long guns, the other from carronades, at short range they are equal; at long,
one has it all her own way. Her captain thus certainly has a great superiority of force, and
if he does not take advantage of it it is owing to his adversary's skill or his own mismanagement.
As a mere approximation, it may be assumed, in comparing the broadsides of two vessels or squadrons,
that long guns count for at least twice as much as carronades of the same calibre. Thus on
Lake Champlain Captain Downie possessed an immense advantage in his long guns, which Commodore
Macdonough's exceedingly good arrangements nullified. Sometimes part of the advantage may be
willingly foregone, so as to acquire some other. Had the Constitution kept at long bowls with
the Cyane and Levant she could have probably captured one without any loss to herself, while
the other would have escaped; she preferred to run down close so as to insure the capture of
both, knowing that even at close quarters long guns are somewhat better than short ones (not
to mention her other advantages in thick scantling, speed, etc.). The British carronades often
upset in action; this was either owing to their having been insufficiently secured, and to
this remaining undiscovered because the men were not exercised at the guns, or else it was
because the unpractised sailors would greatly overcharge them. Our better-trained sailors on
the ocean rarely committed these blunders, but the less-skilled crews on the lakes did so as
often as their antagonists.

But while the Americans thus, as a rule, had heavier and better-fitted guns, they labored under
one or two disadvantages. Our foundries were generally not as good as those of the British,
and our guns, in consequence, more likely to burst; it was an accident of this nature which
saved the British Belvidera; and the General Pike, under Commodore Chauncy, and the new American
frigate Guerriere suffered in the same way; while often the muzzles of the guns would crack.
A more universal disadvantage was in the short weight of our shot. When Captain Blakely sunk
the Avon he officially reported that her four shot which came aboard weighed just 32 pounds
apiece, a pound and three quarters more than his heaviest; this would make his average shot
about 2 1/2 pounds less, or rather over 7 per cent. Exactly similar statements were made by
the officers of the Constitution in her three engagements. Thus when she fought the Java, she
threw at a broadside, as already stated, 704 pounds; the Java mounted 28 long 18's, 18 32-pound
carronades, 2 long 12's, and one shifting 24-pound carronade, a broadside of 576 pounds. Yet
by the actual weighing of all the different shot on both sides it was found that the difference
in broadside force was only about 77 pounds, or the Constitution's shot were about 7 per cent,
short weight. The long 24's of the United States each threw a shot but 4 1/4 pounds heavier
than the long 18's of the Macedonian; here again the difference was about 7 per cent. The same
difference existed in favor of the Penguin and Epervier compared with the Wasp and Hornet.
Mr. Fenimore Cooper [Footnote: See "Naval History," i, p. 380.] weighed a great number of shot
some time after the war. The later castings, even weighed nearly 5 per cent, less than the
British shot, and some of the older ones, about 9 per cent. The average is safe to take at
7 per cent. less, and I shall throughout make this allowance for ocean cruisers. The deficit
was sometimes owing to windage, but more often the shot was of full size but defective in density.
The effect of this can be gathered from the following quotation from the work of a British
artillerist: "The greater the density of shot of like calibres, projected with equal velocity
and elevation, the greater the range, accuracy, and penetration." [Footnote: "Heavy Ordnance,"
Captain T. F. Simmons, R. A., London, 1837. James supposes that the "Yankee captains" have
in each case hunted round till they could get particularly small American shot to weigh; and
also denies that short weight is a disadvantage. The last proposition carried out logically
would lead to some rather astonishing results.] This defectiveness in density might be a serious
injury in a contest at a long distance, but would make but little difference at close quarters
(although it may have been partly owing to their short weight that so many of the Chesapeake's
shot failed to penetrate the Shannon's hull). Thus in the actions with the Macedonian and Java
the American frigates showed excellent practice when the contest was carried on within fair
distance, while their first broadsides at long range went very wild; but in the case of the
Guerriere, the Constitution reserved her fire for close quarters, and was probably not at all
affected by the short weight of her shot.

As to the officers and crew of a 44-gun frigate, the following was the regular complement established
by law: [Footnote: See State Papers, vol. xiv, 159 (Washington, 1834).]

  1 captain,
  4 lieutenants,
  2 lieutenants of marines,
  2 sailing-masters,
  2 master's mates,
  7 midshipmen,
  1 purser,
  1 surgeon,
  2 surgeon's mates,
  1 clerk,
  1 carpenter,
  2 carpenter's mates,
  1 boatswain,
  2 boatswain's mates,
  1 yeoman of gun-room,
  1 gunner,
 11 quarter gunners,
  1 coxswain,
  1 sailmaker,
  1 cooper,
  1 steward,
  1 armorer,
  1 master of arms,
  1 cook,
  1 chaplain.

 50

120 able seamen,
150 ordinary seamen,
 30 boys,
 50 marines.

400 in all.

An 18-gun ship had 32 officers and petty officers, 30 able seamen, 46 ordinary seamen, 12 boys,
and 20 marines--140 in all. Sometimes ships put to sea without their full complements (as in
the case of the first Wasp), but more often with supernumeraries aboard. The weapons for close
quarters were pikes, cutlasses, and a few axes; while the marines and some of the topmen had
muskets, and occasionally rifles.

In comparing the forces of the contestants I have always given the number of men in crew; but
this in most cases was unnecessary. When there were plenty of men to handle the guns, trim
the sails, make repairs, act as marines, etc., any additional number simply served to increase
the slaughter on board. The Guerriere undoubtedly suffered from being short-handed, but neither
the Macedonian nor Java would have been benefited by the presence of a hundred additional men.
Barclay possessed about as many men as Perry, but this did not give him an equality of force.
The Penguin and Frolic would have been taken just as surely had the Hornet and Wasp had a dozen
men less apiece than they did. The principal case where numbers would help would be in a hand-to-hand
fight. Thus the Chesapeake having fifty more men than the Shannon ought to have been successful;
but she was not, because the superiority of her crew in numbers was more than counterbalanced
by the superiority of the Shannon's crew in other respects. The result of the battle of Lake
Champlain, which was fought at anchor, with the fleets too far apart for musketry to reach,
was not in the slightest degree affected by the number of men on either side, as both combatants
had amply enough to manage the guns and perform every other service.

In all these conflicts the courage of both parties is taken for granted: it was not so much
a factor in gaining the victory, as one which if lacking was fatal to all chances of success.
In the engagements between regular cruisers, not a single one was gained by superiority in
courage. The crews of both the Argus and Epervier certainly flinched; but had they fought never
so bravely they were too unskilful to win. The Chesapeake's crew could hardly be said to lack
courage; it was more that they were inferior to their opponents in discipline as well as in skill.

There was but one conflict during the war where the victory could be said to be owing to superiority
in pluck. This was when the Neufchatel privateer beat off the boats of the Endymion. The privateersmen
suffered a heavier proportional loss than their assailants, and they gained the victory by
sheer ability to stand punishment.

For convenience in comparing them I give in tabulated form the force of the three British 38's
taken by American 44's (allowing for short weight of metal of latter).

CONSTITUTION.                          GUERRIERE.
30 long 24's,                          30 long 18's,
 2 long 24's,                           2 long 12's,
22 short 32's.                         16 short 32's,
             1 short 18.
Broadside, nominal, 736 lbs.           
              real. 684 lbs.           Broadside, 556 lbs.       1 short 18.
              real, 786 lbs.      
                                  Broadside, 547 lbs.
Broadside, nominal, 704 lbs.      
              real. 654 lbs.      Broadside. 576 lbs.

The smallest line-of-battle ship, the 74, with only long 18's on the second deck, was armed
as follows:

28 long 32's,
28 " 18's,
 6 " 12's.
14 short 32's
 7 " 18's

or a broadside of 1,032 lbs., 736 from long guns, 296 from carronades; while the Constitution
threw (in reality) 684 lbs., 356 from long guns, and 328 from her carronades, and the United
States 102 lbs. more from her carronades. Remembering the difference between long guns and
carronades, and considering sixteen of the 74's long 18's as being replaced by 42-pound carronades
[Footnote: That this change would leave the force about as it was, can be gathered from the
fact that the Adams and John Adams both of which had been armed with 42 pound carronades (which
were sent to Sackett's Harbor), had them replaced by long and medium 18 pounders, these being
considered to be formidable: so that the substitution of 42-pound carronades would, if any
thing, reduce the force of the 74] (so as to get the metal on the ships distributed in similar
proportions between the two styles of cannon), we get as the 74's broadside 592 lbs from long
guns, and 632 from carronades. The United States threw nominally 360 and 486, and the Constitution
nominally 360 and 352; so the 74 was superior even to the former nominally about as three is
to two; while the Constitution, if "a line-of-battle ship," was disguised to such a degree
that she was in reality of but little more than one half the force of one of the smallest true
liners England possessed! The Wasp, 18, was still at sea, on her return voyage from France;
the Constellation, 38, was lying in the Chesapeake river, unable to receive a crew for several
months to come; the Chesapeake, 38, was lying in a similar condition in Boston harbor; the
Adams, 28, was at Washington, being cut down and lengthened from a frigate into a corvette.
These three cruisers were none of them fit to go to sea till after the end of the year. The
Essex, 32, was in New York harbor, but, having some repairs to make, was not yet ready to put
out. The Constitution, 44, was at Annapolis, without all of her stores, and engaged in shipping
a new crew, the time of the old one being up. The Nautilus, 14, was cruising off New Jersey,
and the other small brigs were also off the coast. The only vessels immediately available were
those under the command of Commodore Rodgers, at New York, consisting of his own ship, the
President, 44, and of the United States, 44, Commodore Decatur, Congress, 38, Captain Smith,
Hornet, 18, Captain Lawrence, and Argus, 16, Lieut. Sinclair. It seems marvellous that any
nation should have permitted its ships to be so scattered, and many of them in such an unfit
condition, at the beginning of hostilities. The British vessels cruising off the coast were
not at that time very numerous or formidable, consisting of the Africa, 64, Acasta, 40, Shannon,
38, Guerriere, 38, Belvidera, 36, Aeolus, 32, Southampton, 32, and Minerva, 32, with a number
of corvettes and sloops; their force was, however, strong enough to render it impossible for
Commodore Rodgers to make any attempt on the coast towns of Canada or the West Indies. But
the homeward bound plate fleet had sailed from Jamaica on May 20th, and was only protected
by the Thalia, 36, Capt. Vashon, and Reindeer, 18, Capt. Manners. Its capture or destruction
would have been a serious blow, and one which there seemed a good chance of striking, as the
fleet would have to pass along the American coast, running with the Gulf Stream. Commodore
Rodgers had made every preparation, in expectation of war being declared, and an hour after
official intelligence of it, together with his instructions, had been received, his squadron
put to sea, on June 21st, and ran off toward the south-east [Footnote: Letter of Commodore
John Rodgers to the Secretary of the Navy, Sept. 1, 1812.] to get at the Jamaica ships. Having
learned from an American brig that she had passed the plate fleet four days before in lat.
36 deg. N., long. 67 deg. W., the Commodore made all sail in that direction. At 6 A.M. on June
23d a sail was made out in the N. E., which proved to be the British frigate Belvidera, 36,
Capt. Richard Byron. [Footnote: Brenton, v. 46.] The latter had sighted some of Commodore Rodgers'
squadron some time before, and stood toward them, till at 6.30 she made out the three largest
ships to be frigates. Having been informed of the likelihood of war by a New York pilot boat,
the Belvidera now stood away, going N. E. by E., the wind being fresh from the west. The Americans
made all sail in chase, the President, a very fast ship off the wind, leading, and the Congress
coming next. At noon the President bore S. W., distant 2 3/4 miles from the Belvidera, Nantucket
shoals bearing 100 miles N. and 48 miles E [Footnote: Log of Belvidera, June 23, 1812.].

At 4:30 [Footnote: Cooper, ii, 151. According to James, vi, 117, the President was then 600
yards distant from the Belvidera, half a point on her weather or port quarter.] the President's
starboard forecastle bowgun was fired by Commodore Rodgers himself; the corresponding main-deck
gun was next discharged, and then Commodore Rodgers fired again. These three shots all struck
the stern of the Belvidera, killing and wounding nine men,--one of them went through the rudder
coat, into the after gun-room, the other two into the captain's cabin. A few more such shots
would have rendered the Belvidera's capture certain, but when the President's main-deck gun
was discharged for the second time it burst, blowing up the forecastle deck and killing and
wounding 16 men, among them the Commodore himself, whose leg was broken. This saved the British
frigate. Such an explosion always causes a half panic, every gun being at once suspected. In
the midst of the confusion Captain Byron's stern-chasers opened with spirit and effect, killing
or wounding six men more. Had the President still pushed steadily on, only using her bow-chasers
until she closed abreast, which she could probably have done, the Belvidera could still have
been taken; but, instead, the former now bore up and fired her port broadside, cutting her
antagonist's rigging slightly, but doing no other damage, while the Belvidera kept up a brisk
and galling fire, although the long bolts, breeching-hooks, and breechings of the guns now
broke continually, wounding several of the men, including Captain Byron. The President had
lost ground by yawing, but she soon regained it, and, coming up closer than before, again opened
from her bow-chasers a well-directed fire, which severely wounded her opponent's main-top mast,
cross-jack yard, and one or two other spars; [Footnote: James, vi, 119. He says the President
was within 400 yards.] but shortly afterward she repeated her former tactics and again lost
ground by yawing to discharge another broadside, even more ineffectual than the first. Once
more she came up closer than ever, and once more yawed; the single shots from her bow-chasers
doing considerable damage, but her raking broadsides none. [Footnote: Lord Howard Douglass,
"Naval Gunnery," p. 419 (third edition).] Meanwhile the active crew of the Belvidera repaired
every thing as fast as it was damaged, while under the superintendence of Lieutenants Sykes,
Bruce, and Campbell, no less than 300 shot were fired from her stern guns. [Footnote: James,
vi, 118.] Finding that if the President ceased yawing she could easily run alongside, Captain
Byron cut away one bower, one stream, and two sheet anchors, the barge, yawl, gig, and jolly
boat, and started 14 tons of water. The effect of this was at once apparent, and she began
to gain; meanwhile the damage the sails of the combatants had received had enabled the Congress
to close, and when abreast of his consort Captain Smith opened with his bow-chasers, but the
shot fell short. The Belvidera soon altered her course to east by south, set her starboard
studding-sails, and by midnight was out of danger; and three days afterward reached Halifax harbor.

Lord Howard Douglass' criticisms on this encounter seem very just. He says that the President
opened very well with her bow-chasers (in fact the Americans seem to have aimed better and
to have done more execution with these guns than the British with their stern-chasers); but
that she lost so much ground by yawing and delivering harmless broadsides as to enable her
antagonist to escape. Certainly if it had not been for the time thus lost to no purpose, the
Commodore would have run alongside his opponent, and the fate of the little 36 would have been
sealed. On the other hand it must be remembered that it was only the bursting of the gun on
board the President, causing such direful confusion and loss, and especially harmful in disabling
her commander, that gave the Belvidera any chance of escape at all. At any rate, whether the
American frigate does, or does not, deserve blame, Captain Byron and his crew do most emphatically
deserve praise for the skill with which their guns were served and repairs made, the coolness
with which measures to escape were adopted, and the courage with which they resisted so superior
a force. On this occasion Captain Byron showed himself as good a seaman and as brave a man
as he subsequently proved a humane and generous enemy when engaged in the blockade of the Chesapeake.
[Footnote: Even Niles, unscrupulously bitter as he is toward the British, does justice to the
humanity of Captains Byron and Hardy--which certainly shone in comparison to some of the rather
buccaneering exploits of Cockburn's followers in Chesapeake Bay.]

This was not a very auspicious opening of hostilities for America. The loss of the Belvidera
was not the only thing to be regretted, for the distance the chase took the pursuers out of
their course probably saved the plate fleet. When the Belvidera was first made out, Commodore
Rodgers was in latitude 39 deg. 26' N., and longitude 71 deg. 10' W.; at noon the same day
the Thalia and her convoy were in latitude 39 deg. N., longitude 62 deg. W. Had they not chased
the Belvidera the Americans would probably have run across the plate fleet.

The American squadron reached the western edge of the Newfoundland Banks on June 29th, [Footnote:
Letter of Commodore Rodgers, Sept. 1st.] and on July 1st, a little to the east of the Banks,
fell in with large quantities of cocoa-nut shells, orange peels, etc., which filled every one
with great hopes of overtaking the quarry. On July 9th, the Hornet captured a British privateer,
in latitude 45 deg. 30' N., and longitude 23 deg. W., and her master reported that he had seen
the Jamaica-men the previous evening; but nothing further was heard or seen of them, and on
July 13th, being within twenty hours' sail of the English Channel, Commodore Rodgers reluctantly
turned southward, reaching Madeira July 21st. Thence he cruised toward the Azores and by the
Grand Banks home, there being considerable sickness on the ships. On August 31st he reached
Boston after a very unfortunate cruise, in which he had made but seven prizes, all merchant-men,
and had recaptured one American vessel.

On July 3d the Essex, 32, Captain David Porter, put out of New York. As has been already explained
she was most inefficiently armed, almost entirely with carronades. This placed her at the mercy
of any frigate with long guns which could keep at a distance of a few hundred yards; but in
spite of Captain Porter's petitions and remonstrances he was not allowed to change his armament.
On the 11th of July at 2 A. M., latitude 33 deg. N., longitude 66 deg. W., the Essex fell in
with the Minerva, 32, Captain Richard Hawkins, convoying seven transports, each containing
about 200 troops, bound from Barbadoes to Quebec. The convoy was sailing in open order, and,
there being a dull moon, the Essex ran in and cut out transport No. 299, with 197 soldiers
aboard. Having taken out the soldiers, Captain Porter stood back to the convoy, expecting Captain
Hawkins to come out and fight him; but this the latter would not do, keeping the convoy in
close order around him. The transports were all armed and still contained in the aggregate
1,200 soldiers. As the Essex could only fight at close quarters these heavy odds rendered it
hopeless for her to try to cut out the Minerva. Her carronades would have to be used at short
range to be effective, and it would of course have been folly to run in right among the convoy,
and expose herself to the certainty of being boarded by five times as many men as she possessed.
The Minerva had three less guns a side, and on her spar-deck carried 24-pound carronades instead
of 32's, and, moreover, had fifty men less than the Essex, which had about 270 men this cruise;
on the other hand, her main-deck was armed with long 12's, so that it is hard to say whether
she did right or not in refusing to fight. She was of the same force as the Southampton whose
captain, Sir James Lucas Yeo, subsequently challenged Porter, but never appointed a meeting-place.
In the event of a meeting, the advantage, in ships of such radically different armaments, would
have been with that captain who succeeded in outmanoeuvring the other and in making the fight
come off at the distance best suited to himself. At long range either the Minerva or Southampton
would possess an immense superiority; but if Porter could have contrived to run up within a
couple of hundred yards, or still better, to board, his superiority in weight of metal and
number of men would have enabled him to carry either of them. Porter's crew was better trained
for boarding than almost any other American commander's; and probably none of the British frigates
on the American station, except the Shannon and Tenedos, would have stood a chance with the
Essex in a hand-to-hand struggle. Among her youngest midshipmen was one, by name David Glasgow
Farragut, then but thirteen years old, who afterward became the first and greatest admiral
of the United States. His own words on this point will be read with interest. "Every day,"
he says, [Footnote: "Life of Farragut" (embodying his journal and letters), p. 31. By his son,
Loyall Farragut, New York. [Footnote: James says: "Had Captain Porter really endeavored to
bring the Minerva to action we do not see what could have prevented the Essex with her superiority
of sailing, from coming alongside of her. But no such thought, we are sure, entered into Captain
Porter's head." What "prevented the Essex" was the Minerva's not venturing out of the convoy.
Farragut, in his journal writes: "The captured British officers were very anxious for us to
have a fight with the Minerva, as they considered her a good match for the Essex, and Captain
Porter replied that he should gratify them with pleasure if his majesty's commander was of
their taste. So we stood toward the convoy and when within gunshot hove to, and awaited the
Minerva, but she tacked and stood in among the convoy, to the utter amazement of our prisoners,
who denounced the commander as a base coward, and expressed their determination to report him
to the Admiralty." An incident of reported "flinching" like this is not worth mentioning; I
allude to it only to show the value of James' sneers.]

On August 13th a sail was made out to windward, which proved to be the British ship-sloop Alert,
16, Captain T. L. O. Laugharne, carrying 20 eighteen-pound carronades and 100 men. [Footnote:
James (History, vi, p. 128) says "86 men." In the Naval Archives at Washington in the "Captains'
Letters" for 1812 (vol. n. No. 182) can be found enclosed in Porter's letter the parole of
the officers and crew of the Alert signed by Captain Laugharne; it contains either 100 or 101
names of the crew of the Alert besides those of a number of other prisoners sent back in the
same cartel.] As soon as the Essex discovered the Alert she put out drags astern, and led the
enemy to believe she was trying to escape by sending a few men aloft to shake out the reefs
and make sail. Concluding the frigate to be a merchant-man, the Alert bore down on her; while
the Americans went to quarters and cleared for action, although the tompions were left in the
guns, and the ports kept closed. [Footnote: "Life of Farragut," p. 16.] The Alert fired a gun
and the Essex hove to, when the former passed under her stern, and when on her lee quarter
poured in a broadside of grape and canister; but the sloop was so far abaft the frigate's beam
that her shot did not enter the ports and caused no damage. Thereupon Porter put up his helm
and opened as soon as his guns would bear, tompions and all. The Alert now discovered her error
and made off, but too late, for in eight minutes the Essex was along side, and the Alert fired
a musket and struck, three men being wounded and several feet of water in the hold. She was
disarmed and sent as a cartel into St. Johns. It has been the fashion among American writers
to speak of her as if she were "unworthily" given up, but such an accusation is entirely groundless.
The Essex was four times her force, and all that could possibly be expected of her was to do
as she did--exchange broadsides and strike, having suffered some loss and damage. The Essex
returned to New York on September 7th, having made 10 prizes, containing 423 men. [Footnote:
Before entering New York the Essex fell in with a British force which, in both Porter's and
Farragut's works, is said to have been composed of the Acasta and Shannon, each of fifty guns,
and Ringdove, of twenty. James says it was the Shannon, accompanied by a merchant vessel. It
is not a point of much importance, as nothing came of the meeting, and the Shannon, alone,
with her immensely superior armament, ought to have been a match twice over for the Essex:
although, if James is right, as seems probable, it gives rather a comical turn to Porter's
account of his "extraordinary escape."]

The Belvidera, as has been stated, carried the news of the war to Halifax. On July 5th Vice-Admiral
Sawyer despatched a squadron to cruise against the United States, commanded by Philip Vere
Broke, of the Shannon, 38, having under him the Belvidera, 36, Captain Richard Byron, Africa,
64, Captain John Bastard, and Aeolus. 32, Captain Lord James Townsend. On the 9th, while off
Nantucket, they were joined by the Guerriere, 38, Captain James Richard Dacres. On the 16th
the squadron fell in with and captured the United States brig Nautilus, 14, Lieutenant Crane,
which, like all the little brigs, was overloaded with guns and men. She threw her lee guns
overboard and made use of every expedient to escape, but to no purpose. At 3 P.M. of the following
day, when the British ships were abreast of Barnegat, about four leagues off shore, a strange
sail was seen and immediately chased, in the south by east, or windward quarter, standing to
the northeast. This was the United States frigate Constitution, 44, Captain Isaac Hull. [Footnote:
For the ensuing chase I have relied mainly on Cooper; see also "Memoir of Admiral Broke," p.
240; James, vi, 133: and Marshall's "Naval Biography" (London, 1825), ii. 625.] When the war
broke out he was in the Chesapeake River getting a new crew aboard. Having shipped over 450
men (counting officers), he put out of harbor on the 12th of July. His crew was entirely new,
drafts of men coming on board up to the last moment. [Footnote: In a letter to the Secretary
of the Navy ("Captains' Letters." 1812. ii, No. 85), Hull, after speaking of the way his men
were arriving, says: "The crew are as yet unacquainted with a ship of war, as many have but
lately joined and have never been on an armed ship before. * * * We are doing all that we can
to make them acquainted with their duty, and in a few days we shall have nothing to fear from
any single-decked ship."] On the 17th, at 2 P.M., Hull discovered four sail, in the northern
board, heading to the westward. At 3, the wind being very light, the Constitution made sail
and tacked, in 18-1/2 fathoms. At 4, in the N. E., a fifth sail appeared, which afterward proved
to be the Guerriere, The first four ships bore N. N. W., and were all on the starboard tack;
while by 6 o'clock the fifth bore E. N. E. At 6.15 the wind shifted and blew lightly from the
south, bringing the American ship to wind-ward. She then wore round with her head to the eastward,
set her light studding-sails and stay-sails, and at 7.30 beat to action, intending to speak
the nearest vessel, the Guerriere. The two frigates neared one another gradually and at 10
the Constitution began making signals, which she continued for over an hour. At 3.30 A. M.
on the 18th the Guerriere, going gradually toward the Constitution on the port tack, and but
one half mile distant, discovered on her lee beam the Belvidera and the other British vessels,
and signalled to them. They did not answer the signals, thinking she must know who they were--a
circumstance which afterward gave rise to sharp recriminations among the captains--and Dacres,
concluding them to be Commodore Rodgers' squadron, tacked, and then wore round and stood away
from the Constitution for some time before discovering his mistake.

At 5 A. M. Hull had just enough steerage way on to keep his head to the east, on the starboard
tack; on his lee quarter, bearing N. E. by N., were the Belvidera and Guerriere and astern
the Shannon, Aeolus, and Africa. At 5.30 it fell entirely calm, and Hull put out his boats
to tow the ship, always going southward. At the same time he whipped up a 24 from the main-deck,
and got the forecastlechaser aft, cutting away the taffrail to give the two guns more freedom
to work in and also running out, through the cabin windows, two of the long main-deck 24's.
The British boats were towing also. At 6 A. M. a light breeze sprang up, and the Constitution
set studding-sails and stay-sails; the Shannon opened at her with her bow guns, but ceased
when she found she could not reach her. At 6.30, the wind having died away, the Shannon began
to gain, almost all the boats of the squadron towing her. Having sounded in 26 fathoms, Lieutenant
Charles Morris suggested to Hull to try kedging. All the spare rope was bent on to the cables,
payed out into the cutters, and a kedge run out half a mile ahead and let go; then the crew
clapped on and walked away with the ship, overrunning and tripping the kedge as she came up
with the end of the line. Meanwhile, fresh lines and another kedge were carried ahead, and
the frigate glided away from her pursuers. At 7.30 A. M. a little breeze sprang up, when the
Constitution set her ensign and fired a shot at the Shannon. It soon fell calm again and the
Shannon neared. At 9.10 a light air from the southward struck the ship, bringing her to windward.
As the breeze was seen coming, her sails were trimmed, and as soon as she obeyed her helm she
was brought close up on the port tack. The boats dropped in alongside; those that belonged
to the davits were run up, while the others were just lifted clear of water, by purchases on
the spare spars, stowed outboard, where they could be used again at a minute's notice. Meanwhile,
on her lee beam, the Guerriere opened fire; but her shot fell short, and the Americans paid
not the slightest heed to it. Soon it again fell calm, when Hull had 2000 gallons of water
started, and again put out his boats to tow. The Shannon with some of the other boats of the
squadron helping her, gained on the Constitution but by severe exertion was again left behind.
Shortly afterward, a slight wind springing up, the Belvidera gained on the other British ships,
and when it fell calm she was nearer to the Constitution than any of her consorts, their boats
being put on to her. [Footnote: Cooper speaks as if this was the Shannon; but from Marshall's
"Naval Biography" we learn that it was the Belvidera. At other times he confuses the Belvidera
with the Guerriere. Captain Hull, of course, could not accurately distinguish the names of
his pursuers. My account is drawn from a careful comparison of Marshall, Cooper, and James.
] At 10.30, observing the benefit that the Constitution had derived from warping, Captain Byron
did the same, bending all his hawsers to one another, and working two kedge anchors at the
same time by paying the warp out through one hawse-hole as it was run in through the other
opposite. Having men from the other frigates aboard, and a lighter ship to work, Captain Byron
at 2 P. M. was near enough to exchange bow--and stern-chasers with the Constitution, out of
range however. Hull expected to be overtaken, and made every arrangement to try in such case
to disable the first frigate before her consorts could close. But neither the Belvidera nor
the Shannon dared to tow very near for fear of having their boats sunk by the American's stern-chasers.

The Constitution's crew showed the most excellent spirit. Officers and men relieved each other
regularly, the former snatching their rest any where on deck, the latter sleeping at the guns.
Gradually the Constitution drew ahead, but the situation continued most critical. All through
the afternoon the British frigates kept towing and kedging, being barely out of gunshot. At
3 P. M. a light breeze sprung up, and blew fitfully at intervals; every puff was watched closely
and taken advantage of to the utmost. At 7 in the evening the wind almost died out, and for
four more weary hours the worn-out sailors towed and kedged. At 10.45 a little breeze struck
the frigate, when the boats dropped alongside and were hoisted up, excepting the first cutter.
Throughout the night the wind continued very light, the Belvidera forging ahead till she was
off the Constitution's lee beam; and at 4 A. M., on the morning of the 19th, she tacked to
the eastward, the breeze being light from the south by east. At 4.20 the Constitution tacked
also; and at 5.15 the Aeolus, which had drawn ahead, passed on the contrary tack. Soon afterward
the wind freshened so that Captain Hull took in his cutter. The Africa was now so far to leeward
as to be almost out of the race; while the five frigates were all running on the starboard
tack with every stitch of canvas set. At 9 A. M. an American merchant-man hove in sight and
bore down toward the squadron. The Belvidera, by way of decoy, hoisted American colors, when
the Constitution hoisted the British flag, and the merchant vessel hauled off. The breeze continued
light till noon, when Hull found he had dropped the British frigates well behind; the nearest
was the Belvidera, exactly in his wake, bearing W. N. W. 2 1/2 miles distant. The Shannon was
on his lee, bearing N. by W. 1/2 W. distant 3 1/2 miles. The other two frigates were five miles
off on the lee quarter. Soon afterward the breeze freshened, and "old Ironsides" drew slowly
ahead from her foes, her sails being watched and tended with the most consummate skill. At
4 P. M. the breeze again lightened, but even the Belvidera was now four miles astern and to
leeward. At 6.45 there were indications of a heavy rain squall, which once more permitted Hull
to show that in seamanship he excelled even the able captains against whom he was pitted. The
crew were stationed and every thing kept fast till the last minute, when all was clewed up
just before the squall struck the ship. The light canvas was furled, a second reef taken in
the mizzen top-sail, and the ship almost instantly brought under short sail. The British vessels
seeing this began to let go and haul down without waiting for the wind, and were steering on
different tacks when the first gust struck them. But Hull as soon as he got the weight of the
wind sheeted home, hoisted his fore and main-top gallant sails, and went off on an easy bowline
at the rate of 11 knots. At 7.40 sight was again obtained of the enemy, the squall having passed
to leeward; the Belvidera, the nearest vessel, had altered her bearings two points to leeward,
and was a long way astern. Next came the Shannon; the Guerriere and Aeolus were hull down,
and the Africa barely visible. The wind now kept light, shifting occasionally in a very baffling
manner, but the Constitution gained steadily, wetting her sails from the sky-sails to the courses.
At 6 A. M., on the morning of the 20th the pursuers were almost out of sight; and at 8.15 A.
M. they abandoned the chase. Hull at once stopped to investigate the character of two strange
vessels, but found them to be only Americans; then, at midday, he stood toward the east, and
went into Boston on July 26th.

In this chase Captain Isaac Hull was matched against five British captains, two of whom, Broke
and Byron, were fully equal to any in their navy; and while the latter showed great perseverance,
good seamanship, and ready imitation, there can be no doubt that the palm in every way belongs
to the cool old Yankee. Every daring expedient known to the most perfect seamanship was tried,
and tried with success; and no victorious fight could reflect more credit on the conqueror
than this three days' chase did on Hull. Later, on two occasions, the Constitution proved herself
far superior in gunnery to the average British frigate; this time her officers and men showed
that they could handle the sails as well as they could the guns. Hull out-manoeuvred Broke
and Byron as cleverly as a month later he out-fought Dacres. His successful escape and victorious
fight were both performed in a way that place him above any single ship captain of war.

On Aug. 2d the Constitution made sail from Boston [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Isaac Hull, Aug.
28, 1812.] and stood to the eastward, in hopes of falling in with some of the British cruisers.
She was unsuccessful, however, and met nothing. Then she ran down to the Bay of Fundy, steered
along the coast of Nova Scotia, and thence toward Newfoundland, and finally took her station
off Cape Race in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, where she took and burned two brigs of little value.
On the 15th she recaptured an American brig from the British ship-sloop Avenger, though the
latter escaped; Capt. Hull manned his prize and sent her in. He then sailed southward, and
on the night of the 18th spoke a Salem privateer which gave him news of a British frigate to
the south; thither he stood, and at 2 P. M. on the 19th, in lat. 41 deg. 30' N. and 55 deg.
W., made out a large sail bearing E. S. E. and to leeward, [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Isaac
Hull, Aug. 30, 1812.] which proved to be his old acquaintance, the frigate Guerriere, Captain
Dacres. It was a cloudy day and the wind was blowing fresh from the northwest. The Guerriere
was standing by the wind on the starboard tack, under easy canvas; [Footnote: Letter of Capt.
James R. Dacres, Sept. 7, 1812.] she hauled up her courses, took in her top-gallant sails,
and at 4.30 backed her main-top sail. Hull then very deliberately began to shorten sail, taking
in top-gallant sails, stay-sails, and flying jib, sending down the royal yards and putting
another reef in the top-sails. Soon the Englishman hoisted three ensigns, when the American
also set his colors, one at each mast-head, and one at the mizzen peak.

The Constitution now ran down with the wind nearly aft. The Guerriere was on the starboard
tack, and at five o'clock opened with her weather-guns, [Footnote: Log of Guerriere.] the shot
falling short, then wore round and fired her port broadside, of which two shot struck her opponent,
the rest passing over and through her rigging. The point is of some little importance because
Hull, in his letter, speaks as if both the first broadsides fell short, whereas the log distinctly
says that the second went over the ship, except two shot, which came home. The hypothesis of
the Guerriere having damaged powder was founded purely on this supposed falling short of the
first two broadsides.] As the British frigate again wore to open with her starboard battery,
the Constitution yawed a little and fired two or three of her port bow-guns. Three or four
times the Guerriere repeated this manoeuvre, wearing and firing alternate broadsides, but with
little or no effect, while the Constitution yawed as often to avoid being raked, and occasionally
fired one of her bow guns. This continued nearly an hour, as the vessels were very far apart
when the action began, hardly any loss or damage being inflicted by either party. At 6.00 the
Guerriere bore up and ran off under her top-sails and jib, with the wind almost astern, a little
on her port quarter; when the Constitution set her main-top gallant sail and foresail, and
at 6.05 closed within half pistol-shot distance on her adversary's port beam. [Footnote: "Autobiography
of Commodore Morris" (Annapolis, 1880), p. 164.] Immediately a furious cannonade opened, each
ship firing as the guns bore. By the time the ships were fairly abreast, at 6.20, the Constitution
shot away the Guerriere's mizzen-mast, which fell over the starboard quarter, knocking a large
hole in the counter, and bringing the ship round against her helm. Hitherto she had suffered
very greatly and the Constitution hardly at all. The latter, finding that she was ranging ahead,
put her helm aport and then luffed short round her enemy's bows, [Footnote: Log of Constitution.]
delivering a heavy raking fire with the starboard guns and shooting away the Guerriere's main-yard.
Then she wore and again passed her adversary's bows, raking with her port guns. The mizzen-mast
of the Guerriere, dragging in the water, had by this time pulled her bow round till the wind
came on her starboard quarter; and so near were the two ships that the Englishman's bowsprit
passed diagonally over the Constitution's quarter-deck, and as the latter ship fell off it
got foul of her mizzen-rigging, and the vessels then lay with the Guerriere's starboard bow
against the Constitution's port, or lee quarter-gallery. [Footnote: Cooper, in "Putnam's Magazine."
i. 475.] The Englishman's bow guns played havoc with Captain Hull's cabin, setting fire to
it; but the flames were soon extinguished by Lieutenant Hoffmann. On both sides the boarders
were called away; the British ran forward, but Captain Dacres relinquished the idea of attacking
[Footnote: Address of Captain Dacres to the court-martial at Halifax.] when he saw the crowds
of men on the American's decks. Meanwhile, on the Constitution, the boarders and marines gathered
aft, but such a heavy sea was running that they could not get on the Guerriere. Both sides
suffered heavily from the closeness of the musketry fire; indeed, almost the entire loss on
the Constitution occurred at this juncture. As Lieutenant Bush, of the marines, sprang upon
the taffrail to leap on the enemy's decks, a British marine shot him dead; Mr. Morris, the
first Lieutenant, and Mr. Alwyn, the master, had also both leaped on the taffrail, and both
were at the same moment wounded by the musketry fire. On the Guerriere the loss was far heavier,
almost all the men on the forecastle being picked off. Captain Dacres himself was shot in the
back and severely wounded by one of the American mizzen topmen, while he was standing on the
starboard forecastle hammocks cheering on his crew [Footnote: James, vi, 144.]; two of the
lieutenants and the master were also shot down. The ships gradually worked round till the wind
was again on the port quarter, when they separated, and the Guerriere's foremast and main-mast
at once went by the board, and fell over on the starboard side, leaving her a defenseless hulk,
rolling her main-deck guns into the water. [Footnote: Brenton, v, 51.] At 6.30 the Constitution
hauled aboard her tacks, ran off a little distance to the eastward, and lay to. Her braces
and standing and running rigging were much cut up and some of the spars wounded, but a few
minutes sufficed to repair damages, when Captain Hull stood under his adversary's lee, and
the latter at once struck, at 7.00 P. M., [Footnote: Log of the Constitution.] just two hours
after she had fired the first shot. On the part of the Constitution, however, the actual fighting,
exclusive of six or eight guns fired during the first hour, while closing, occupied less than
30 minutes.

The tonnage and metal of the combatants have already been referred to. The Constitution had,
as already said, about 456 men aboard, while of the Guerriere's crew, 267 prisoners were received
aboard the Constitution; deducting 10 who were Americans and would not fight, and adding the
15 killed outright, we get 272; 28 men were absent in prizes.

                     COMPARATIVE FORCE
                                                          Comparative
                              Broad-        Comparative      loss
                    Tons Guns side Men Loss Force          Inflicted

Constitution  1576  27   684 456  14   1.00              1.00 Guerriere     1338  25   556
272  79    .70               .18

The loss of the Constitution included Lieutenant William S. Bush, of the marines, and six seamen
killed, and her first lieutenant, Charles Morris, Master, John C. Alwyn, four seamen, and one
marine, wounded. Total, seven killed and seven wounded. Almost all this loss occurred when
the ships came foul, and was due to the Guerriere's musketry and the two guns in her bridle-ports.

The Guerriere lost 23 killed and mortally wounded, including her second lieutenant, Henry Ready,
and 56 wounded severely and slightly, including Captain Dacres himself, the first lieutenant,
Bartholomew Kent, Master, Robert Scott, two master's mates, and one midshipman.

The third lieutenant of the Constitution, Mr. George Campbell Read, was sent on board the prize,
and the Constitution remained by her during the night; but at daylight it was found that she
was in danger of sinking. Captain Hull at once began removing the prisoners, and at three o'clock
in the afternoon set the Guerriere on fire, and in a quarter of an hour she blew up. He then
set sail for Boston, where he arrived on August 30th. "Captain Hull and his officers," writes
Captain Dacres in his official letter, "have treated us like brave and generous enemies; the
greatest care has been taken that we should not lose the smallest trifle."

The British laid very great stress on the rotten and decayed condition of the Guerriere; mentioning
in particular that the mainmast fell solely because of the weight of the falling foremast.
But it must be remembered that until the action occurred she was considered a very fine ship.
Thus, in Brighton's "Memoir of Admiral Broke," it is declared that Dacres freely expressed
the opinion that she could take a ship in half the time the Shannon could. The fall of the
main-mast occurred when the fight was practically over; it had no influence whatever on the
conflict. It was also asserted that her powder was bad, but on no authority; her first broadside
fell short, but so, under similar circumstances, did the first broadside of the United States.
None of these causes account for the fact that her shot did not hit. Her opponent was of such
superior force--nearly in the proportion of 3 to 2--that success would have been very difficult
in any event, and no one can doubt the gallantry and pluck with which the British ship was
fought; but the execution was very greatly disproportioned to the force. The gunnery of the
Guerriere was very poor, and that of the Constitution excellent; during the few minutes the
ships were yard-arm and yard-arm; the latter was not hulled once, while no less than 30 shot
took effect on the former's engaged side, [Footnote: Captain Dacres' address to the court-martial.]
five sheets of copper beneath the bends. The Guerriere, moreover, was out-manoeuvred; "in wearing
several times and exchanging broadsides in such rapid and continual changes of position, her
fire was much more harmless than it would have been if she had kept more steady." [Footnote:
Lord Howard Douglass, "Treatise on Naval Gunnery" (London, 1851), p. 454.] The Constitution
was handled faultlessly; Captain Hull displayed the coolness and skill of a veteran in the
way in which he managed, first to avoid being raked, and then to improve the advantage which
the precision and rapidity of his fire had gained. "After making every allowance claimed by
the enemy, the character of this victory is not essentially altered. Its peculiarities were
a fine display of seamanship in the approach, extraordinary efficiency in the attack, and great
readiness in repairing damages; all of which denote cool and capable officers, with an expert
and trained crew; in a word, a disciplined man-of-war." [Footnote: Cooper, ii. 173.] The disparity
of force, 10 to 7, is not enough to account for the disparity of execution, 10 to 2. Of course,
something must be allowed for the decayed state of the Englishman's masts, although I really
do not think it had any influence on the battle, for he was beaten when the main mast fell;
and it must be remembered, on the other hand, that the American crew was absolutely new, while
the Guerriere was manned by old hands. So that, while admitting and admiring the gallantry,
and, on the whole, the seamanship of Captain Dacres and his crew, and acknowledging that he
fought at a great disadvantage, especially in being short-handed, yet all must acknowledge
that the combat showed a marked superiority, particularly in gunnery, on the part of the Americans.
Had the ships not come foul, Captain Hull would probably not have lost more than three or four
men; as it was, he suffered but slightly. That the Guerriere was not so weak as she was represented
to be can be gathered from the fact that she mounted two more main-deck guns than the rest
of her class; thus carrying on her main-deck 30 long 18-pounders in battery, to oppose to the
30 long 24's, or rather (allowing for the short weight of shot) long 22's, of the Constitution.
Characteristically enough, James, though he carefully reckons in the long bow-chasers in the
bridle-ports of the Argus and Enterprise, yet refuses to count the two long eighteens mounted
through the bridle-ports on the Guerriere's main-deck. Now, as it turned out, these two bow
guns were used very effectively, when the ships got foul, and caused more damage and loss than
all of the other main-deck guns put together.

Captain Dacres, very much to his credit, allowed the ten Americans on board to go below, so
as not to fight against their flag; and in his address to the court-martial mentions, among
the reasons for his defeat, "that he was very much weakened by permitting the Americans on
board to quit their quarters." Coupling this with the assertion made by James and most other
British writers that the Constitution was largely manned by Englishmen, we reach the somewhat
remarkable conclusion, that the British ship was defeated because the Americans on board would
not fight against their country, and that the American was victorious because the British on
board would. However, as I have shown, in reality there were probably not a score of British
on board the Constitution.

In this, as well as the two succeeding frigate actions, every one must admit that there was
a great superiority in force on the side of the victors, and British historians have insisted
that this superiority was so great as to preclude any hopes of a successful resistance. That
this was not true, and that the disparity between the combatants was not as great as had been
the case in a number of encounters in which English frigates had taken French ones, can be
best shown by a few accounts taken from the French historian Troude, who would certainly not
exaggerate the difference. Thus on March 1, 1799, the English 38-gun 18-pounder frigate Sybille,
captured the French 44-gun 24-pounder frigate Forte, after an action of two hours and ten minutes.
[Footnote: "Batailles Navales de la France." O. Troude (Paris, 1868), iv, 171.] In actual weight
the shot thrown by one of the main-deck guns of the defeated Forte was over six pounds heavier
than the shot thrown by one of the main-deck guns of the victorious Constitution or United
States. [Footnote: See Appendix B, for actual weight of French shot.]

There are later examples than this. But a very few years before the declaration of war by the
United States, and in the same struggle that was then still raging, there had been at least
two victories gained by English frigates over French foes as superior to themselves as the
American 44's were to the British ships they captured. On Aug. 10, 1805, the Phoenix, 36, captured
the Didon, 40, after 3 1/2 hours' fighting, the comparative broadside force being: [Footnote:
Ibid., lii, 425.]

           PHOENIX            DIDON
             13x18               14x18
              2x 9                2x 8
              6x32                7x36
        -----------------    -----------------
        21 guns, 444 lbs.    23 guns, 522 lbs.
                              (nominal; about
                               600, real)

On March 8, 1808, the San Florenzo, 36, captured the Piedmontaise, 40, the force being exactly
what it was in the case of the Phoenix and Didon.[Footnote: Ibid., in, 499.] Comparing the
real, not the nominal weight of metal, we find that the Didon and Piedmontaise were proportionately
of greater force compared to the Phoenix and San Florenzo, than the Constitution was compared
to the Guerriere or Java. The French 18's threw each a shot weighing but about two pounds less
than that thrown by an American 24 of 1812, while their 36-pound carronades each threw a shot
over 10 pounds heavier than that thrown by one of the Constitution's spar-deck 32's.

That a 24-pounder can not always whip an 18-pounder frigate is shown by the action of the British
frigate Eurotas with the French frigate Chlorinde, on Feb. 25, 1814. [Footnote: James, vi,
391.] The first with a crew of 329 men threw 625 pounds of shot at a broadside, the latter
carrying 344 men and throwing 463 pounds; yet the result was indecisive. The French lost 90
and the British 60 men. The action showed that heavy metal was not of much use unless used well.

To appreciate rightly the exultation Hull's victory caused in the United States, and the intense
annoyance it created in England, it must be remembered that during the past twenty years the
Island Power had been at war with almost every state in Europe, at one time or another, and
in the course of about two hundred single conflicts between ships of approximately equal force
(that is, where the difference was less than one half), waged against French, Spanish, Italian,
Turkish, Algerine, Russian, Danish, and Dutch antagonists, her ships had been beaten and captured
in but five instances. Then war broke out with America, and in eight months five single-ship
actions occurred, in every one of which the British vessel was captured. Even had the victories
been due solely to superior force this would have been no mean triumph for the United States.

On October 13, 1812, the American 18-gun ship-sloop Wasp, Captain Jacob Jones, with 137 men
aboard, sailed from the Delaware and ran off southeast to get into the track of the West India
vessels; on the 16th a heavy gale began to blow, causing the loss of the jib-boom and two men
who were on it. The next day the weather moderated somewhat, and at 11.30 P.M., in latitude
37 deg. N., longitude 65 deg. W., several sail were descried. [Footnote: Capt. Jones' official
letter, Nov. 24, 1812.] These were part of a convoy of 14 merchant-men which had quitted the
bay of Honduras on September 12th, bound for England, [Footnote: James' History, vi, 158.]
under the convoy of the British 18-gun brig-sloop Frolic, of 19 guns and 110 men, Captain Thomas
Whinyates. They had been dispersed by the gale of the 16th, during which the Frolic's main-yard
was carried away and both her top-sails torn to pieces [Footnote: Capt. Whinyates' official
letter, Oct. 18, 1812.]; next day she spent in repairing damages, and by dark six of the missing
ships had joined her. The day broke almost cloudless on the 18th (Sunday), showing the convoy,
ahead and to leeward of the American ship, still some distance off, as Captain Jones had not
thought it prudent to close during the night, while he was ignorant of the force of his antagonists.
The Wasp now sent down to her top-gallant yards, close reefed her top-sails, and bore down
under short fighting canvas; while the Frolic removed her main-yard from the casks, lashed
it on deck, and then hauled to the wind under her boom main-sail and close-reefed foretop-sail,
hoisting Spanish colors to decoy the stranger under her guns, and permit the convoy to escape.
At 11.32 the action began--the two ships running parallel on the starboard tack, not 60 yards
apart, the Wasp, firing her port, and the Frolic her starboard, guns. The latter fired very
rapidly, delivering three broadsides to the Wasp's two, [Footnote: Cooper, 182.] both crews
cheering loudly as the ships wallowed through the water. There was a very heavy sea running,
which caused the vessels to pitch and roll heavily. The Americans fired as the engaged side
of their ship was going down, aiming at their opponent's hull [Footnote: Miles' Register, in,
p. 324.]; while the British delivered their broadsides while on the crests of the seas, the
shot going high. The water dashed in clouds of spray over both crews, and the vessels rolled
so that the muzzles of the guns went under. [Footnote: Do.] But in spite of the rough weather,
the firing was not only spirited but well directed. At 11.36 the Wasp's maintop-mast was shot
away and fell, with its yard, across the port fore and foretop-sail braces, rendering the head
yards unmanageable; at 11.46 the gaff and mizzentop-gallant mast came down, and by 11.52 every
brace and most of the rigging was shot away. [Footnote: Capt. Jones' letter.] It would now
have been very difficult to brace any of the yards. But meanwhile the Frolic suffered dreadfully
in her hull and lower masts, and had her gaff and head braces shot away.[Footnote: Capt. Whinyates'
letter.] The slaughter among her crew was very great, but the survivors kept at their work
with the dogged courage of their race. At first the two vessels ran side by side, but the American
gradually forged ahead, throwing in her fire from a position in which she herself received
little injury; by degrees the vessels got so close that the Americans struck the Frolic's side
with their rammers in loading, [Footnote: Capt. Jones' letter.] and the British brig was raked
with dreadful effect. The Frolic then fell aboard her antagonist, her jib-boom coming in between
the main- and mizzen-rigging of the Wasp and passing over the heads of Captain Jones and Lieutenant
Biddle, who were standing near the capstan. This forced the Wasp up in the wind, and she again
raked her antagonist, Captain Jones trying to restrain his men from boarding till he could
put in another broadside. But they could no longer be held back, and Jack Lang, a New Jersey
seaman, leaped on the Frolic's bowsprit. Lieutenant Biddle then mounted on the hammock cloth
to board, but his feet got entangled in the rigging, and one of the midshipmen seizing his
coat-tails to help himself up, the lieutenant tumbled back on the deck. At the next swell he
succeeded in getting on the bowsprit, on which there were already two seamen whom he passed
on the forecastle. But there was no one to oppose him; not twenty Englishmen were left unhurt.
[Footnote: James, vi, 161.] There could be no more resistance, and Lieutenant Biddle lowered
the flag at 12.15--just 43 minutes after the beginning of the fight. [Footnote: Capt. Jones'
letter.] A minute or two afterward both the Frolic's masts went by the board--the foremast
about fifteen feet above the deck, the other short off. Of her crew, as already said, not twenty
men had escaped unhurt. Every officer was wounded; two of them, the first lieutenant, Charles
McKay, and master, John Stephens, soon died. Her total loss was thus over 90 [Footnote: Capt.
Whinyates' official letter thus states it, and is, of course, to be taken as authority; the
Bermuda account makes it 69, and James only 62;] about 30 of whom were killed outright or died
later. The Wasp suffered very severely in her rigging and aloft generally, but only two or
three shots struck her hull; five of her men were killed--two in her mizzen-top and one in
her maintop-mast rigging--and five wounded, [Footnote: Capt. Jones' letter.] chiefly while aloft.

The two vessels were practically of equal force. The loss of the Frolic's main-yard had merely
converted her into a brigantine, and, as the roughness of the sea made it necessary to fight
under very short canvas, her inferiority in men was fully compensated for by her superiority
in metal. She had been desperately defended; no men could have fought more bravely than Captain
Whinyates and his crew. On the other hand, the Americans had done their work with a coolness
and skill that could not be surpassed; the contest had been mainly one of gunnery, and had
been decided by the greatly superior judgment and accuracy with which they fired. Both officers
and crew had behaved well; Captain Jones particularly mentions Lieutenant Claxton, who, though
too ill to be of any service, persisted in remaining on deck throughout the engagement.

The Wasp was armed with 2 long 12's and 16 32-pound carronades; the Frolic with 2 long 6's,
16 32-pound carronades, and 1 shifting 12-pound carronade.

                     COMPARATIVE FORCE.

        Tons.   No. Guns. Weight Metal. Crews. Loss.
Wasp   450        9           250       135    10
Frolic 467       10           274       110    90

Vice-Admiral Jurien de la Graviere comments on this action as follows [Footnote: "Guerres Maritimes,"
ii, 287 (Septieme Edition, Paris, 1881).]:

DIAGRAM [Footnote: It is difficult to reconcile the accounts of the manoeuvres in this action.
James says "larboard" where Cooper says "starboard"; one says the Wasp wore, the other says
that she could not do so, etc.]

"The American fire showed itself to be as accurate as it was rapid. On occasions when the roughness
of the sea would seem to render all aim excessively uncertain, the effects of their artillery
were not less murderous than under more advantageous conditions. The corvette Wasp fought the
brig Frolic in an enormous sea, under very short canvas, and yet, forty minutes after the beginning
of the action, when the two vessels came together, the Americans who leaped aboard the brig
found on the deck, covered with dead and dying, but one brave man, who had not left the wheel,
and three officers, all wounded, who threw down their swords at the feet of the victors." Admiral
de la Graviere's criticisms are especially valuable, because they are those of an expert, who
only refers to the war of 1812 in order to apply to the French navy the lessons which it teaches,
and who is perfectly unprejudiced. He cares for the lesson taught, not the teacher, and is
quite as willing to learn from the defeat of the Chesapeake as from the victories of the Constitution--while
most American critics only pay heed to the latter.

The characteristics of the action are the practical equality of the contestants in point of
force and the enormous disparity in the damage each suffered; numerically, the Wasp was superior
by 5 per cent., and inflicted a ninefold greater loss.

Captain Jones was not destined to bring his prize into port, for a few hours afterward the
Poictiers, a British 74, Captain John Poer Beresford, hove in sight. Now appeared the value
of the Frolic's desperate defence; if she could not prevent herself from being captured, she
had at least ensured her own recapture, and also the capture of the foe. When the Wasp shook
out her sails they were found to be cut into ribbons aloft, and she could not make off with
sufficient speed. As the Poictiers passed the Frolic, rolling like a log in the water, she
threw a shot over her, and soon overtook the Wasp. Both vessels were carried into Bermuda.
Captain Whinyates was again put in command of the Frolic. Captain Jones and his men were soon
exchanged; 25,000 dollars prize-money was voted them by Congress, and Captain and Lieutenant
Biddle were both promoted, the former receiving the captured ship Macedonian. Unluckily the
blockade was too close for him to succeed in getting out during the remainder of the war.

On Oct. 8th Commodore Rodgers left Boston on his second cruise, with the President, United
States, Congress, and Argus, [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Rodgers. Jan. 1. 1813.] leaving
the Hornet in port. Four days out, the United States and Argus separated, while the remaining
two frigates continued their cruise together. The Argus, [Footnote: Letter of Capt. Arthur
Sinclair, Jan. 4, 1813.] Captain Sinclair, cruised to the eastward, making prizes of 6 valuable
merchant-men, and returned to port on January 3d. During the cruise she was chased for three
days and three nights (the latter being moonlight) by a British squadron, and was obliged to
cut away her boats and anchors and start some of her water. But she saved her guns, and was
so cleverly handled that during the chase she actually succeeded in taking and manning a prize,
though the enemy got near enough to open fire as the vessels separated. Before relating what
befell the United States, we shall bring Commodore Rodgers' cruise to an end.

On Oct. 10th the Commodore chased, but failed to overtake, the British frigate Nymphe, 38,
Captain Epworth. On the 18th, off the great Bank of Newfoundland, he captured the Jamaica packet
Swallow, homeward bound, with 200,000 dollars in specie aboard. On the 31st, at 9 A. M., lat.
33 deg. N., long. 32 deg. W., his two frigates fell in with the British frigate Galatea, 36,
Captain Woodley Losack, convoying two South Sea ships, to windward. The Galatea ran down to
reconnoitre, and at 10 A. M., recognizing her foes, hauled up on the starboard tack to escape.
The American frigates made all sail in chase, and continued beating to windward, tacking several
times, for about three hours. Seeing that she was being overhauled, the Galatea now edged away
to get on her best point of sailing; at the same moment one of her convoy, the Argo, bore up
to cross the hawse of her foes, but was intercepted by the Congress, who lay to to secure her.
Meanwhile the President kept after the Galatea; she set her top-mast, top-gallant mast and
lower studding-sails, and when it was dusk had gained greatly upon her. But the night was very
dark, the President lost sight of the chase, and, toward midnight, hauled to the wind to rejoin
her consort. The two frigates cruised to the east as far as 22 deg. W., and then ran down to
17 deg. N.; but during the month of November they did not see a sail. They had but slightly
better luck on their return toward home. Passing 120 miles north of Bermuda, and cruising a
little while toward the Virginia capes, they reentered Boston on Dec. 31st, having made 9 prizes,
most of them of little value.

When four days out, on Oct. 12th, Commodore Decatur had separated from the rest of Rodgers'
squadron and cruised east; on the 25th, in lat. 29 deg. N., and long. 29 deg. 30' W. while
going close-hauled on the port tack, with the wind fresh from the S. S. E., a sail was descried
on the weather beam, about 12 miles distant. [Footnote: Official letter of Commodore Decatur,
Oct. 30. 1812.] This was the British 38-gun frigate Macedonian, Captain John Surnam Carden.
She was not, like the Guerriere, an old ship captured from the French, but newly built of oak
and larger than any American 18-pounder frigate; she was reputed (very wrongfully) to be a
"crack ship." [Footnote: Marshall's "Naval Biography," vol. iv, p. 1018.] How they could have
practised so much and learned so little is certainly marvellous.

The Macedonian set her foretop-mast and top-gallant studdings sails and bore away in chase,
[Footnote: Capt. Carden to Mr. Croker, Oct. 28, 1812.] edging down with the wind a little aft
the starboard beam. Her first lieutenant wished to continue on this course and pass down ahead
of the United States, [Footnote: James, vi. 165.] but Capt. Carden's over-anxiety to keep the
weather-gage lost him this opportunity of closing. [Footnote: Sentence of Court-martial held
on the San Domingo, 74. at the Bermudas. May 27, 1812.] Accordingly he hauled by the wind and
passed way to windward of the American. As Commodore Decatur got within range, he eased off
and fired a broadside, most of which fell short [Footnote: Marshall, iv, 1080.]; he then kept
his luff, and, the next time he fired, his long 24's told heavily, while he received very little
injury himself. [Footnote: Cooper, 11, 178.] The fire from his main-deck (for he did not use
his carronades at all for the first half hour) [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Decatur.] was
so very rapid that it seemed as if the ship was on fire; his broadsides were delivered with
almost twice the rapidity of those of the Englishman. [Footnote: James, vi, 169.] The latter
soon found he could not play at long bowls with any chance of success; and, having already
erred either from timidity or bad judgment, Captain Carden decided to add rashness to the catalogue
of his virtues. Accordingly he bore up, and came down end on toward his adversary, with the
wind on his port quarter. The States now (10.15) laid her main-topsail aback and made heavy
play with her long guns, and, as her adversary came nearer, with her carronades also.

The British ship would reply with her starboard guns, hauling up to do so; as she came down,
the American would ease off, run a little way and again come to, keeping up a terrific fire.
As the Macedonian bore down to close, the chocks of all her forecastle guns (which were mounted
on the outside) were cut away [Footnote: Letter of Captain Carden.]; her fire caused some damage
to the American's rigging, but hardly touched her hull, while she herself suffered so heavily
both alow and aloft that she gradually dropped to leeward, while the American fore-reached
on her. Finding herself ahead and to windward, the States tacked and ranged up under her adversary's
lee, when the latter struck her colors at 11.15, just an hour and a half after the beginning
of the action. [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Decatur.]

The United States had suffered surprisingly little; what damage had been done was aloft. Her
mizzen top-gallant mast was cut away, some of the spars were wounded, and the rigging a good
deal cut; the hull was only struck two or three times. The ships were never close enough to
be within fair range of grape and musketry, [Footnote: Letter of Commodore Decatur.] and the
wounds were mostly inflicted by round shot and were thus apt to be fatal. Hence the loss of
the Americans amounted to Lieutenant John Messer Funk (5th of the ship) and six seamen killed
or mortally wounded, and only five severely and slightly wounded.

The Macedonian, on the other hand, had received over a hundred shot in her hull, several between
wind and water; her mizzen-mast had gone by the board; her fore--and maintop-masts had been
shot away by the caps, and her main-yard in the slings; almost all her rigging was cut away
(only the fore-sail being left); on the engaged side all of her carronades but two, and two
of her main-deck guns, were dismounted. Of her crew 43 were killed and mortally wounded, and
61 (including her first and third lieutenants) severely and slightly wounded. [Footnote: Letter
of Captain Carden.] Among her crew were eight Americans (as shown by her muster-roll); these
asked permission to go below before the battle, but it was refused by Captain Carden, and three
were killed during the action. James says that they were allowed to go below, but this is untrue;
for if they had, the three would not have been slain. The others testified that they had been
forced to fight, and they afterward entered the American service--the only ones of the Macedonian's
crew who did, or who were asked to.

The Macedonian had her full complement of 301 men; the States had, by her muster-roll of October
20th, 428 officers, petty officers, seamen, and boys, and 50 officers and privates of marines,
a total of 478 (instead of 509 as Marshall in his "Naval Biography" makes it).

                     COMPARATIVE FORCE.

                        Broadside  Weight
                  Size. Guns.      Metal.  Men. Loss.
United States   1576   27         786    478    12
Macedonian      1325   25         547    301   104

                  Comparative      Comparative Loss
                    Force.           Inflicted.
States             100               100
Macedonian          66                11

That is, the relative force being about as three is to two, [Footnote: I have considered the
United States as mounting her full allowance of 54 guns; but it is possible that she had no
more than 49. In Decatur's letter of challenge of Jan. 17, 1814 (which challenge, by the way,
was a most blustering affair, reflecting credit neither on Decatur, nor his opponent, Captain
Hope, nor on any one else, excepting Captain Stackpole of H. M. S. Statira), she is said to
have had that number; her broadside would then be 15 long 24's below, 1 long 24, 1 12-pound,
and 8 42-pound carronades above. Her real broadside weight of metal would thus be about 680
lbs., and she would be superior to the Macedonian in the proportion of 5 to 4. But it is possible
that Decatur had landed some of his guns in 1813, as James asserts; and though I am not at
all sure of this, I have thought it best to be on the safe side in describing his force.] the
damage done was as nine to one!

Of course, it would have been almost impossible for the Macedonian to conquer with one third
less force; but the disparity was by no means sufficient to account for the ninefold greater
loss suffered, and the ease and impunity with which the victory was won. The British sailors
fought with their accustomed courage, but their gunnery was exceedingly poor; and it must be
remembered that though the ship was bravely fought, still the defence was by no means so desperate
as that made by the Essex or even the Chesapeake, as witnessed by their respective losses.
The Macedonian, moreover, was surrendered when she had suffered less damage than either the
Guerriere or Java. The chief cause of her loss lay in the fact that Captain Carden was a poor
commander. The gunnery of the Java, Guerriere, and Macedonian was equally bad; but while Captain
Lambert proved himself to be as able as he was gallant, and Captain Dacres did nearly as well,
Captain Carden, on the other hand, was first too timid, and then too rash, and showed bad judgment
at all times. By continuing his original course he could have closed at once; but he lost his
chance by over-anxiety to keep the weather-gage, and was censured by the court-martial accordingly.
Then he tried to remedy one error by another, and made a foolishly rash approach. [Footnote:
Lord Howard Douglass, "Naval Gunnery." p. 525]

On the other hand, the American crew, even according to James, were as fine a set of men as
ever were seen on shipboard. Though not one fourth were British by birth, yet many of them
had served on board British ships of war, in some cases voluntarily, but much more often because
they were impressed. They had been trained at the guns with the greatest care by Lieutenant
Allen. And finally Commodore Decatur handled his ship with absolute faultlessness. To sum up:
a brave and skilful crew, ably commanded, was matched against an equally brave but unskilful
one, with an incompetent leader; and this accounts for the disparity of loss being so much
greater than the disparity in force.

At the outset of this battle the position of the parties was just the reverse of that in the
case of the Constitution and Guerriere: the Englishman had the advantage of the wind, but he
used it in a very different manner from that in which Captain Hull had done. The latter at
once ran down to close, but manoeuvred so cautiously that no damage could be done him till
he was within pistol shot. Captain Carden did not try to close till after fatal indecision,
and then made the attempt so heedlessly that he was cut to pieces before he got to close quarters.
Commodore Decatur, also, manoeuvred more skilfully than Captain Dacres, although the difference
was less marked between these two. The combat was a plain cannonade; the States derived no
advantage from the superior number of her men, for they were not needed. The marines in particular
had nothing whatever to do, while they had been of the greatest service against the Guerriere.
The advantage was simply in metal, as 10 is to 7. Lord Howard Douglass' criticisms on these
actions seem to me only applicable in part. He says (p. 524): "The Americans would neither
approach nor permit us to join in close battle until they had gained some extraordinary advantage
from the superior faculties of their long guns in distant cannonade, and from the intrepid,
uncircumspect, and often very exposed approach of assailants who had long been accustomed to
contemn all manoeuvring. Our vessels were crippled in distant cannonade from encountering rashly
the serious disadvantage of making direct attacks; the uncircumspect gallantry of our commanders
led our ships unguardedly into the snares which wary caution had spread."

These criticisms are very just as regards the Macedonian, and I fully agree with them (possibly
reserving the right to doubt Captain Carden's gallantry, though readily admitting his uncircumspection).
But the case of the Guerriere differed widely. There the American ship made the attack, while
the British at first avoided close combat; and, so far from trying to cripple her adversary
by a distant cannonade, the Constitution hardly fired a dozen times until within pistol shot.
This last point is worth mentioning, because in a work on "Heavy Ordnance," by Captain T. F.
Simmons, R. A. (London, 1837), it is stated that the Guerriere received her injuries before
the closing, mentioning especially the "thirty shot below the water-line"; whereas, by the
official accounts of both commanders, the reverse was the case. Captain Hull, in his letter,
and Lieutenant Morris, (in his autobiography) say they only fired a few guns before closing;
and Captain Dacres, in his letter, and Captain Brenton, in his "History," say that not much
injury was received by the Guerriere until about the time the mizzen-mast fell, which was three
or four minutes after close action began.

Lieutenant Allen was put aboard the Macedonian as prize-master; he secured the fore- and main-masts
and rigged a jury mizzen-mast, converting the vessel into a bark. Commodore Decatur discontinued
his cruise to convoy his prize back to America; they reached New London Dec. 4th. Had it not
been for the necessity of convoying the Macedonian, the States would have continued her cruise,
for the damage she suffered was of the most trifling character.

