The Master of Ballantrae A Winter's Tale

To Sir Percy Florence and Lady Shelley

Here is a tale which extends over many years and travels into many countries.  By a peculiar
fitness of circumstance the writer began, continued it, and concluded it among distant and
diverse scenes. Above all, he was much upon the sea.  The character and fortune of the fraternal
enemies, the hall and shrubbery of Durrisdeer, the problem of Mackellar's homespun and how
to shape it for superior flights; these were his company on deck in many star-reflecting harbours,
ran often in his mind at sea to the tune of slatting canvas, and were dismissed (something
of the suddenest) on the approach of squalls.  It is my hope that these surroundings of its
manufacture may to some degree find favour for my story with seafarers and sea-lovers like
yourselves.

And at least here is a dedication from a great way off:  written by the loud shores of a subtropical
island near upon ten thousand miles from Boscombe Chine and Manor:  scenes which rise before
me as I write, along with the faces and voices of my friends.

Well, I am for the sea once more; no doubt Sir Percy also.  Let us make the signal B. R. D.!

"Well, well," add Mr. Thomson, "we shall see."

CHAPTER I. - SUMMARY OF EVENTS DURING THIS MASTER'S WANDERINGS.

The full truth of this odd matter is what the world has long been looking for, and public curiosity
is sure to welcome.  It so befell that I was intimately mingled with the last years and history
of the house; and there does not live one man so able as myself to make these matters plain,
or so desirous to narrate them faithfully.  I knew the Master; on many secret steps of his
career I have an authentic memoir in my hand; I sailed with him on his last voyage almost alone;
I made one upon that winter's journey of which so many tales have gone abroad; and I was there
at the man's death.  As for my late Lord Durrisdeer, I served him and loved him near twenty
years; and thought more of him the more I knew of him. Altogether, I think it not fit that
so much evidence should perish; the truth is a debt I owe my lord's memory; and I think my
old years will flow more smoothly, and my white hair lie quieter on the pillow, when the debt
is paid.

The Duries of Durrisdeer and Ballantrae were a strong family in the south-west from the days
of David First.  A rhyme still current in the countryside -

Kittle folk are the Durrisdeers, They ride wi' over mony spears -

bears the mark of its antiquity; and the name appears in another, which common report attributes
to Thomas of Ercildoune himself - I cannot say how truly, and which some have applied - I dare
not say with how much justice - to the events of this narration:

Twa Duries in Durrisdeer, Ane to tie and ane to ride, An ill day for the groom And a waur day
for the bride.

Authentic history besides is filled with their exploits which (to our modern eyes) seem not
very commendable:  and the family suffered its full share of those ups and downs to which the
great houses of Scotland have been ever liable.  But all these I pass over, to come to that
memorable year 1745, when the foundations of this tragedy were laid.

At that time there dwelt a family of four persons in the house of Durrisdeer, near St. Bride's,
on the Solway shore; a chief hold of their race since the Reformation.  My old lord, eighth
of the name, was not old in years, but he suffered prematurely from the disabilities of age;
his place was at the chimney side; there he sat reading, in a lined gown, with few words for
any man, and wry words for none:  the model of an old retired housekeeper; and yet his mind
very well nourished with study, and reputed in the country to be more cunning than he seemed.
The master of Ballantrae, James in baptism, took from his father the love of serious reading;
some of his tact perhaps as well, but that which was only policy in the father became black
dissimulation in the son.  The face of his behaviour was merely popular and wild:  he sat late
at wine, later at the cards; had the name in the country of "an unco man for the lasses;" and
was ever in the front of broils.  But for all he was the first to go in, yet it was observed
he was invariably the best to come off; and his partners in mischief were usually alone to
pay the piper.  This luck or dexterity got him several ill-wishers, but with the rest of the
country, enhanced his reputation; so that great things were looked for in his future, when
he should have gained more gravity.  One very black mark he had to his name; but the matter
was hushed up at the time, and so defaced by legends before I came into those parts, that I
scruple to set it down.  If it was true, it was a horrid fact in one so young; and if false,
it was a horrid calumny.  I think it notable that he had always vaunted himself quite implacable,
and was taken at his word; so that he had the addition among his neighbours of "an ill man
to cross."  Here was altogether a young nobleman (not yet twenty-four in the year '45) who
had made a figure in the country beyond his time of life.  The less marvel if there were little
heard of the second son, Mr. Henry (my late Lord Durrisdeer), who was neither very bad nor
yet very able, but an honest, solid sort of lad like many of his neighbours.  Little heard,
I say; but indeed it was a case of little spoken.  He was known among the salmon fishers in
the firth, for that was a sport that he assiduously followed; he was an excellent good horse-doctor
besides; and took a chief hand, almost from a boy, in the management of the estates.  How hard
a part that was, in the situation of that family, none knows better than myself; nor yet with
how little colour of justice a man may there acquire the reputation of a tyrant and a miser.
The fourth person in the house was Miss Alison Graeme, a near kinswoman, an orphan, and the
heir to a considerable fortune which her father had acquired in trade.  This money was loudly
called for by my lord's necessities; indeed the land was deeply mortgaged; and Miss Alison
was designed accordingly to be the Master's wife, gladly enough on her side; with how much
good-will on his, is another matter.  She was a comely girl, and in those days very spirited
and self-willed; for the old lord having no daughter of his own, and my lady being long dead,
she had grown up as best she might.

To these four came the news of Prince Charlie's landing, and set them presently by the ears.
My lord, like the chimney-keeper that he was, was all for temporising.  Miss Alison held the
other side, because it appeared romantical; and the Master (though I have heard they did not
agree often) was for this once of her opinion.  The adventure tempted him, as I conceive; he
was tempted by the opportunity to raise the fortunes of the house, and not less by the hope
of paying off his private liabilities, which were heavy beyond all opinion.  As for Mr. Henry,
it appears he said little enough at first; his part came later on.  It took the three a whole
day's disputation, before they agreed to steer a middle course, one son going forth to strike
a blow for King James, my lord and the other staying at home to keep in favour with King George.
Doubtless this was my lord's decision; and, as is well known, it was the part played by many
considerable families.  But the one dispute settled, another opened.  For my lord, Miss Alison,
and Mr. Henry all held the one view:  that it was the cadet's part to go out; and the Master,
what with restlessness and vanity, would at no rate consent to stay at home.  My lord pleaded,
Miss Alison wept, Mr. Henry was very plain spoken:  all was of no avail.

"It is the direct heir of Durrisdeer that should ride by his King's bridle," says the Master.

"If we were playing a manly part," says Mr. Henry, "there might be sense in such talk.  But
what are we doing?  Cheating at cards!"

"We are saving the house of Durrisdeer, Henry," his father said.

"And see, James," said Mr. Henry, "if I go, and the Prince has the upper hand, it will be easy
to make your peace with King James. But if you go, and the expedition fails, we divide the
right and the title.  And what shall I be then?"

"You will be Lord Durrisdeer," said the Master.  "I put all I have upon the table."

"I play at no such game," cries Mr. Henry.  "I shall be left in such a situation as no man
of sense and honour could endure.  I shall be neither fish nor flesh!" he cried.  And a little
after he had another expression, plainer perhaps than he intended.  "It is your duty to be
here with my father," said he.  "You know well enough you are the favourite."

"Ay?" said the Master.  "And there spoke Envy!  Would you trip up my heels - Jacob?" said he,
and dwelled upon the name maliciously.

Mr. Henry went and walked at the low end of the hall without reply; for he had an excellent
gift of silence.  Presently he came back.

"I am the cadet and I SHOULD go," said he.  "And my lord here in the master, and he says I
SHALL go.  What say ye to that, my brother?"

"I say this, Harry," returned the Master, "that when very obstinate folk are met, there are
only two ways out:  Blows - and I think none of us could care to go so far; or the arbitrament
of chance - and here is a guinea piece.  Will you stand by the toss of the coin?"

"I will stand and fall by it," said Mr. Henry.  "Heads, I go; shield, I stay."

The coin was spun, and it fell shield.  "So there is a lesson for Jacob," says the Master.

"We shall live to repent of this," says Mr. Henry, and flung out of the hall.

As for Miss Alison, she caught up that piece of gold which had just sent her lover to the wars,
and flung it clean through the family shield in the great painted window.

"If you loved me as well as I love you, you would have stayed," cried she.

"'I could not love you, dear, so well, loved I not honour more,'" sang the Master.

"Oh!" she cried, "you have no heart - I hope you may be killed!" and she ran from the room,
and in tears, to her own chamber.

It seems the Master turned to my lord with his most comical manner, and says he, "This looks
like a devil of a wife."

"I think you are a devil of a son to me," cried his father, "you that have always been the
favourite, to my shame be it spoken. Never a good hour have I gotten of you, since you were
born; no, never one good hour," and repeated it again the third time. Whether it was the Master's
levity, or his insubordination, or Mr. Henry's word about the favourite son, that had so much
disturbed my lord, I do not know; but I incline to think it was the last, for I have it by
all accounts that Mr. Henry was more made up to from that hour.

Altogether it was in pretty ill blood with his family that the Master rode to the North; which
was the more sorrowful for others to remember when it seemed too late.  By fear and favour
he had scraped together near upon a dozen men, principally tenants' sons; they were all pretty
full when they set forth, and rode up the hill by the old abbey, roaring and singing, the white
cockade in every hat.  It was a desperate venture for so small a company to cross the most
of Scotland unsupported; and (what made folk think so the more) even as that poor dozen was
clattering up the hill, a great ship of the king's navy, that could have brought them under
with a single boat, lay with her broad ensign streaming in the bay.  The next afternoon, having
given the Master a fair start, it was Mr. Henry's turn; and he rode off, all by himself, to
offer his sword and carry letters from his father to King George's Government. Miss Alison
was shut in her room, and did little but weep, till both were gone; only she stitched the cockade
upon the Master's hat, and (as John Paul told me) it was wetted with tears when he carried
it down to him.

In all that followed, Mr. Henry and my old lord were true to their bargain.  That ever they
accomplished anything is more than I could learn; and that they were anyway strong on the king's
side, more than believe.  But they kept the letter of loyalty, corresponded with my Lord President,
sat still at home, and had little or no commerce with the Master while that business lasted.
Nor was he, on his side, more communicative.  Miss Alison, indeed, was always sending him expresses,
but I do not know if she had many answers. Macconochie rode for her once, and found the highlanders
before Carlisle, and the Master riding by the Prince's side in high favour; he took the letter
(so Macconochie tells), opened it, glanced it through with a mouth like a man whistling, and
stuck it in his belt, whence, on his horse passageing, it fell unregarded to the ground.  It
was Macconochie who picked it up; and he still kept it, and indeed I have seen it in his hands.
News came to Durrisdeer of course, by the common report, as it goes travelling through a country,
a thing always wonderful to me.  By that means the family learned more of the Master's favour
with the Prince, and the ground it was said to stand on:  for by a strange condescension in
a man so proud - only that he was a man still more ambitious - he was said to have crept into
notability by truckling to the Irish.  Sir Thomas Sullivan, Colonel Burke and the rest, were
his daily comrades, by which course he withdrew himself from his own country-folk.  All the
small intrigues he had a hand in fomenting; thwarted my Lord George upon a thousand points;
was always for the advice that seemed palatable to the Prince, no matter if it was good or
bad; and seems upon the whole (like the gambler he was all through life) to have had less regard
to the chances of the campaign than to the greatness of favour he might aspire to, if, by any
luck, it should succeed.  For the rest, he did very well in the field; no one questioned that;
for he was no coward.

The next was the news of Culloden, which was brought to Durrisdeer by one of the tenants' sons
- the only survivor, he declared, of all those that had gone singing up the hill.  By an unfortunate
chance John Paul and Macconochie had that very morning found the guinea piece - which was the
root of all the evil - sticking in a holly bush; they had been "up the gait," as the servants
say at Durrisdeer, to the change-house; and if they had little left of the guinea, they had
less of their wits.  What must John Paul do but burst into the hall where the family sat at
dinner, and cry the news to them that "Tam Macmorland was but new lichtit at the door, and
- wirra, wirra - there were nane to come behind him"?

They took the word in silence like folk condemned; only Mr. Henry carrying his palm to his
face, and Miss Alison laying her head outright upon her hands.  As for my lord, he was like ashes.

"I have still one son," says he.  "And, Henry, I will do you this justice - it is the kinder
that is left."

It was a strange thing to say in such a moment; but my lord had never forgotten Mr. Henry's
speech, and he had years of injustice on his conscience.  Still it was a strange thing, and
more than Miss Alison could let pass.  She broke out and blamed my lord for his unnatural words,
and Mr. Henry because he was sitting there in safety when his brother lay dead, and herself
because she had given her sweetheart ill words at his departure, calling him the flower of
the flock, wringing her hands, protesting her love, and crying on him by his name - so that
the servants stood astonished.

