I met him near the entrance of the Institute, where I was waiting to see the Superintendent.
He approached with light, nervous steps, and his haggard eyes met mine questioningly.

"A fine morning," I remarked.

"It is," he agreed; "and if you would be good enough to tell me the day of the week--"

"It's Saturday," I said, wondering a little.

"I--I feared so," he said and clutched me by the arm. "Listen. This is the day when I have
to make up my five columns--seven hundred lines, brevier type. It is my destiny to give advice,
and you can have it without the asking. Take, for example, the Rhode Island Rabbit--a noble
strain and rich in phosphates. Plant out at the beginning of April in a mixture consisting
of two parts road-grit, two parts table-scraps, and a deed of assignment, and by the end of
October they will be throwing up magnificent clusters of yellow blossom. The Magellan Lop-eared
is also hardy and prolific, though pugnacious if reared under glass. In the absence of a specified
agreement a dose of tartaric acid that has been well stewed with the mutton left over from
Sunday will usually put matters straight. Snip off shoots that show signs of becoming broody,
and give a mash of middlings at quarter-day.

"We now come to the Light Sussex Long-furred Goatlings. These can be kept in hutches, which
may be obtained at any oil-shop at about fivepence per pint. Grasp firmly by the wings when
lifting, and explain the matter to your solicitor. Short-haired Pouters should be housed in
kennels which have been thoroughly disinfected with peat-moss, cod-liver-oil emulsion and a
good face-powder. A little boracic ointment rubbed well into the roots before breakfast is
also to be commended. With regard to the Squirrel-tailed Borzois, during the period of weaning
try bicarbonate of soda, one scruple; sal volatile, one drachm; to be taken every calendar
month from date of contract."

A large, genial man, with an official manner--he was, I discovered, the under-superintendent--approached,
and the haggard man moved rapidly away.

"A painful case," I observed.

"Very," said the large man. "Journalist of the name of Criddle--Jabez Wilberforce Criddle.
He used to run the Gardening section of The Sunday Helio. Then the chap that was responsible
for the 'Legal Advice' was called up, and Criddle got his column as well as his own. Next,
the 'Poultry Gossip' man went, and they gave Criddle that, and when a week later the 'Cookery
Notes' woman took up V.A.D. work he got her share too. He struggled along gamely enough until
'Auntie Gladys,' who ran 'Our Baby' column, became a tram-conductress; but, when they passed
him that, his mind went, and the proprietors sent him here."

I inquired as to the possibilities of recovery.

"There is hope," said the large man, "that the trouble may not last beyond the duration of
the War. But we shan't feel that we've made a fair start until we've cured him of getting up
in the night and tapping his artificial teeth with a button-hook. He fancies he's dictating
'Answers to Correspondents.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Clerical Candour.

    "In order to satisfy my mind I spent over two hours in a certain
    cinema ... Frankly I was disappointed. I saw nothing which could
    in any way be called indecent."

    The Rev. F. H. GILLINGHAM, in "The Weekly Dispatch."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORLD SET FREE.

(An awful prospect.)

  Long, long ago, when I had not attested,
    I prized the liberties of this proud race,
  The right of speech, from haughty rulers wrested,
    The right to put one's neighbours in their place;
      I liked to argue and I loved to pass
      Slighting remarks on Robert, who's an ass,
      To hint that Henry's manners were no class,
    Or simply say I did not like his face.

  But things are changed. To-day I had a tussle
    With some low scion of an upstart line;
  Meagre his intellect, absurd his muscle,
    I should have strafed him in the days long syne;
      I took a First, and he could hardly parse;
      I have more eloquence but he more stars;
      Yet (so insane the ordinance of Mars)
    I must say "Yessir," and salute the swine.

  And it was hard when that abrupt Staff-Major
    Up to the firing-line one evening came
  (Unknown his motive, probably a wager),
    And said quite rudely, "You are much to blame;
      Those beggars yonder you should enfilade."
      I fingered longingly a nice grenade;
      I said those beggars were our First Brigade,
    But might not call him any kind of name.

  Yet not for ever shall the bard be muted
    By stars and stripes, but freely, as of yore,
  When swords are sheathed and I'm civilian-suited,
    I shall have speech with certain of my corps,
      Speak them the insults which I now but brood:
      "Pompous," "incompetent," "too fond of food,"
      And fiercely taste the bliss of being rude
    And unrestrained by Articles of War.

  That will be great; but what if such intentions
    Are likewise present in the Tenth Platoon?
  What if some labourer of huge dimensions
    Meet me defenceless in a Tube saloon,
      And hiss his catalogue of unpaid scores,
      How oft I criticised his forming fours,
      Or prisoned him behind the Depôt doors,
    Or kept him digging on the Fourth of June?

  Painful. And then, when all these arméd millions
    Unknot with zest the military noose,
  Will the whole world be full of wroth civilians,
    Each one exulting in a tongue let loose?
      And who shall picture or what bard shall pen
      The crowning horror which awaits us then--
      That civil warfare of uncivil men
    In one great Armageddon of abuse?

       *       *       *       *       *

A Pluralist.

The writer of a letter appearing in The Daily Mail signs herself "Wife of Group 41."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FRANK.

In my first formal introduction to Frank he appeared, together with his clothing and various
belongings, as an item in a list of things to be taken over. I knew him already by reputation,
and I remembered some of the occasions when he had appeared on parade. Also I knew that two
successive Company Commanders had managed in turn to exchange him with some unsuspecting newly
appointed O.C. Company for something more tractable. This last process, indeed, accounted for
my having to take him over instead of the mild creature with the duck-waddle action which my
predecessor had ridden or, let me say, sat.

It became then my lot to take over Frank, or, to put it more correctly, I was issued with him.
That is part of the military principle of fixing responsibility. Things are not issued to you;
you are issued with them, and you alone are accountable. I was issued with Frank and all his
harness and appointments and, incidentally, his parlour tricks. This was the formal introduction.
I didn't meet him at close range until later. When I was issued with him I didn't even know
his name. No previous owner had ever thought of asking it, and had they asked they would not
have believed that a horse could be called Frank. On general principles it seems wrong, but
on nearer acquaintance I found that Frank was exactly the name for him. The great thing about
him was that if he thought a thing he said it.

For example, when I first mounted him he thought he would prefer to remain in the stable where
he had been for the best part of a week. He said so quite candidly. I am nothing very great
as a handler of wild animals, and he gave me three minutes made up of every action in his repertoire--no
limited one. At the end of it I very kindly dismounted. I didn't want him to think I was not
intelligent enough to understand what he meant, and moreover I hated the idea of marring our
first meeting by refusing so unmistakable a request. So he was led back to his quarters and
the incident closed, if not with mutual goodwill at least with some degree of satisfaction
fairly evenly distributed among the parties.

It was, I remember, on the next morning that the Mess Sergeant noticed a shortage of lump sugar
in one of the basins. I mention this merely because it fixes in my mind the first day on which
I had a comfortable ride. Frank started out in a good temper and came home at his best pace,
hoping to get some more sugar. That, at least, is how I read his meaning, and I pursued my
policy of not misunderstanding him. After this he developed a parlour trick which made me quite
fond of him. When I went to the stable he would put his nose round to the side pocket whore
I kept the sugar. He always got some, and he knew there would always be some more when he got home.

Thus it became necessary to instruct him in topography. He quickly learned that certain turnings
led to the camp, and I was reduced to subterfuges to prove to him that they did not. It was
essential to go over every road at various times in opposite directions. That confused him,
and though I disliked the deception I had to resort to it, with the result that Frank finally
accepted me at my own fictitious valuation as a person who did not properly know his own mind.

But it took him some time to get into my ways. Once we spent twenty minutes on a small stretch
of road leading from the parade ground to a railway bridge. I wanted to cross the bridge and
Frank did not. I took him towards the bridge and he took me back towards the camp. This happened
thirteen times. At the fourteenth there was a variation; he changed his mind and we crossed
the bridge. During the twenty minutes, I remember, we had a further slight disagreement about
a stick. I was glad I had brought it, and he was not. But on the other side of the bridge we
let bygones be bygones. Frank had his moods, but he was always a gentleman.

He was also a soldier. His strong point really was that he was excellent on parade. He would
look round, grasp the formation at a glance, and drop into his place. He was never more happy
than when route-marching; never more unhappy than when compelled to break out of the line.
Indeed, so much did he enjoy column of route that when off duty with two or three other horses
he would play at route-marching, taking up a position in Indian file and avoiding any sort
of arrangement which brought him abreast of his companions.

At last we had to part. I don't know the right way to express this. Possibly I was reissued
without him; I am not sure what the process was. At any rate we separated, he remaining at
the camp and I proceeding on duty to the Depôt. I said good-bye to him and he nuzzled for the
last time at my side pocket. Having munched the sugar, he turned to the more serious business
of his manger. I think this must have been his way of concealing his emotion.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAG-TIME IN THE TRENCHES.

      Roll up, rally up!
      Stroll up, sally up!
  Take a tupp'ny ticket out, and help to tote the tally up!
  Come and see the Raggers in their "Mud and Slush" revoo.
  (Haven't got no money? Well, a cigarette'll do).
  Come and hear O'Leary in his great tin-whistle stunt;
  See our beauty chorus with the Sergeant in the front;
    Come and hear our gaggers
      In their "Lonely Tommy" song;
    Come and see the Raggers,
      We're the bongest of the bong.

      Roll up, rally up!
      Stroll up, sally up!
  Show is just commencing and we've got to ring the ballet up.
  Hear our swell orchestra keeping all the fun alive,
  Tooting on his whistle while they dance the Dug-out Dive.
  Come and see Spud Murphy with his double-ration smile,
  ('Tisn't much for beauty, but it's PHYLLIS DARE for style);
    Come and see our scena,
      "How the section got C.B.;"
    Bring a concertina
      And we'll let you come in free.

      Roll up, rally up!
      Stroll up, sally up!
  First and last performance. If you want to see it, allez up!
  Come and sit where "Archibalds" won't get you in the neck
  (If it's getting sultry you can take a pass-out check).
  Come and hear the Corporal recite his only joke;
  See the leading lady slipping out to have a smoke;
    Sappers, cooks, flag-waggers,
      Dhooly-wallahs too;
    Come and hear the Raggers
      In their "Mud and Slush" revoo.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commercial Candour.

    "The perfume par excellence ... unapproached and
    unapproachable." Advt. in Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

"GERMAN FOOD CRISIS.
    ATTEMPT TO CONGEAL THE TRUTH AS TO SHORTAGE."--Buenos Ayres
    Standard.

The Huns are so economical that they put even Truth into cold storage.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Cheery messages come through from General Townshend. He is
    sewing vegetable seeds and has asked for gramophone needles."
    Lloyd's Weekly News.

The ordinary kind being unsuited for such delicate stitchery.

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, February 29th.--Mr. LLOYD GEORGE announced to-day that the Members of the Cabinet
had decided to take one-fourth of their salaries in Exchequer Bonds. Murmurs of applause followed,
and before they had died away Mr. HOGGE launched his great joke. Leading up to it with the
remark that Exchequer Bonds can be sold the next day, he asked, "Would it not be a good idea
to call them the Laughing Stock?" Mr. HOGGE is not one of the chartered jesters of the House
so his jeu d'ésprit just caused "a laugh," as the reporters say, and nothing more.

On the Third Beading of the Consolidated Fund Bill Sir JOHN SIMON renewed his attack upon the
Military Service Bill. The tribunals, he declared, were disregarding the appeal of the widow's
only son; the Yellow Form, of which the late Home Secretary takes the same jaundiced view as
he did of the Yellow Press, was being sent out indiscriminately to all whom it did not concern:
the War Office had issued a misleading poster; and everywhere men were being "bluffed" into
the Army. He himself would have been inundated with correspondence if he had not had the happy
inspiration of diverting the flood into Mr. TENNANT's letter-box. Passionately he called upon
the Government not to imitate Germany's brutality.

Mr. LONG, suave as usual, deprecated Sir JOHN SIMON'S ferocity, reminded him that all cases
of hardship could be considered by the Appeal Tribunals, and promised to investigate the cases
that had been mentioned. "May I send in my list too?" asked Mr. WATT. But Mr. LONG, unwilling
to share the fate of Mr. TENNANT, suggested that the SECRETARY FOR SCOTLAND would form a more
appropriate dumping-ground for Mr. WATT'S dossier.

After Mr. SNOWDEN, Sir THOMAS WHITTAKER and Mr. LOUGH had reinforced Sir JOHN SIMON'S case
with added instances the Government found an unexpected champion in Mr. HEALY. He was amazed
to hear the late HOME SECRETARY--"one of the Ministers who made the War"--gloating over the
inefficiency of the War Office at a moment when round Verdun was raging a battle in which the
fate of Paris, and perhaps of London, was involved. Why had he not imitated the monumental
silence of Mr. BURNS? Instead, he, the suppressor of obscure Irish newspapers, had done more
to injure recruiting than any Connemara editor.

I never expected to live to hear the Bank of England described in the House of Commons as a
useless institution. In Mr. HEALY'S opinion, "The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street," like the
other who lived in a shoe, has too many children, and her attempt to get 190 of them exempted
from military service moved him in a moment of "vituperative irrelevance," as Mr. PRINGLE subsequently
described it, to say the rudest things about her financial capacity.

Wednesday, March 1st.--Sir OWEN PHILLIPS, once Liberal Member for Pembroke, returned to the
House to-day as Unionist Member for Chester. To signalise the capture of so gigantic a prize--he
is 6ft. 6in. in his stockinged feet--Lord EDMUND TALBOT and Sir G. YOUNGER, Unionist Whips,
conducted him to the Table; and as they are both of moderate height the procession gave the
effect of a Mauretania going to her moorings in charge of a couple of tugs.

But there were differences. The £10 was not an ordinary "ten-pun' note" but was a "token" representing
something like four and a half millions received by the Fleet for services rendered to Foreign
Powers and others; and Mr. WHITLEY, who was in the Chair, too so far from being asleep, was
intensely wide-awake. Members who sought to discuss Naval policy generally were promptly pulled
up, and the SECRETARY OF THE ADMIRALTY, when in his third or fourth attempt to explain the
Vote he remarked hypothetically, "Suppose we were to sell a battleship----" was himself called
to order, Mr. WHITLEY evidently regarding such a reduction of the Fleet as unpatriotic even
in imagination.

A vote for £37,000 to extend the British Consulate buildings at Cairo united both sides of
the House in criticism. Mr. ASHLEY thought what was good enough for Lord CROMER should be good
enough for his successor. Mr. HOGGE, by a somewhat obscure process of reasoning, now understood
why the Germans were so anxious to get to Egypt. In vain Mr. LEWIS HARCOURT, usually so persuasive,
explained that they were now buying for £3 10s. a metre land for which the owner wanted £12
a metre not long ago. Sir F. BANBURY, shaking his pince-nez at the Treasury Bench, retorted
that he might ask £5 for this pair of glasses, for which he had paid half-a-crown (more war
economy), but he would not expect to get it.

A vote for £50,000, to complete the purchase of the estate of Colonel HALL-WALKER, who has
presented his racing stud to the Government, evoked some opposition and much facetiousness.
Mr. ACLAND, who proposed it, did not help his case by remarking that personally he regarded
racing as a low form of sport. The fact that some of the horses have been leased by the War
Department to Lord LONSDALE for racing purposes "on sharing terms" caused Mr. MCNEILL to inquire
whether Mr. TENNANT would act as the Ministerial tipster; and Mr. HOGGE, who displayed a knowledge
of racing which will, I fear, shock the unco' guid of East Edinburgh, thought it ridiculous
that Ministers should preach economy in the City and start a racing stud at Westminster.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Thursday, March 2nd.--Ariel, Earl of DERBY, has not entirely left the Earth for the Air. His
head, at any rate, is not in the clouds, for his speech on the working of his own scheme was
full of practical wisdom. He was not afraid of the exemptions that the tribunals might give
if left to themselves, but he was a little concerned about SIMON and his scratch crew of pro-shirkers
who seemed to be doing their little best to prevent the country from getting men.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ELUSIVE ONES.

A large number of claims for exemption from military service were made before the Bouverie
Street Tribunal at its sittings last week.

Ike Feldmann (23) asked for exemption on the ground that he was an agriculturalist and therefore
excused under the Act. Questioned further, he stated that at the present time he was employed
in making artificial onions for a firm of Bond Street milliners, but his uncle, who was wealthy,
had promised to buy him a farm as soon as the weather got warmer. His application was rejected.

William Smith (31) stated that he was the President, Treasurer and Secretary of the Anglo-Chinese
Industries Association, Limited, and urged that unless he was exempted the company must inevitably
go into liquidation, there being no one else familiar with its business. Answering a question
by the Chairman, applicant stated that the company was formed to do a general mercantile business,
but that at the present time its activities were confined to manicuring Pekingese pugs. Asked
whether this work could not be done by women, applicant stated that it had been tried, but
that women seemed to get on the nerves of the dogs, causing their hair to fall out. The application
was refused.

An appeal was made on behalf of George W. Hopper (18), an employee of the West End Delicacy
Company, a concern engaged in the business of supplying steak-and-kidney puddings to the large
hotels. These delicacies, the Secretary of the company explained, weighed about a ton each,
and Hopper was the only man who was strong enough to lift them out of the ovens into the delivery
wagon.

A Member of the Board. That is just the kind of man they want in the army.

The Secretary of the company stated as an additional ground for exemption that Hopper had a
wooden leg and bronchitis. He was put back one group to give time for medical treatment of leg.

James Ponks (19), who appeared somewhat dazed at his surroundings, explained in a confidential
whisper that he was the caretaker of the municipal macaroni beds in Regent's Park. Asked if
he would not like to fight for his country, he replied that he would, only MARTIN Luther had
appeared to him in a dream and ordered him to go into the dressed poultry business. Referred
to the Medical authorities.

Jim Bounce (30) stated that he had a conscientious objection to fighting. He didn't like the
Germans, but recognised that they were his spiritual brothers.

A Member of the Board. Where did you get that cauliflower ear?

Owing to the unsatisfactory nature of the applicant's reply his appeal was refused.

Arthur Small (35), proprietor of a fish and chips emporium, stated that he was a widower and
the sole support of his mother-in-law, two married sisters-in-law, their husbands and their
thirteen small children.

The Chairman. It seems a clear case for exemption.

Applicant hastened to explain that he did not ask for exemption as he felt that his first duty
was to his country. He would like, however, a week in which to say good-bye to his relations
by marriage. The request was granted, the Chairman stating that the attitude of Small, who
was sacrificing everything for duty, did him the greatest credit.

      *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A Smooth Passage.

    "In the Lords Viscount French took his sea but it was a quiet
    affair."--Morning Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "EMPLOYMENT as odd man offered to a disabled soldier in a very
    good gentleman's household."--Morning Paper.

As the above advertisement appeared several times we are afraid the gentleman must have been
regarded as almost too good to be true.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DUG-OUT DOMINIE.

  Some thirty years ago or more
    He tried his hand at gerund-grinding,
  But very speedily forswore
    The rôle before its ties grew binding;
  He earned a living by his pen,
    Paid court to Clio and Melpomene,
  Until the War broke out, and then
    Enlisted--as a dug-out dominie.

  Shortsighted, undersized and weak,
    Intolerant yet self-distrusting,
  There could not well have been a "beak"
    Less fitted for the nice adjusting
  Of his peculiar point of view
    To that of forty-odd years later,
  Less eager to acclaim the New,
    Less apt for Georgian tastes to cater.

  He strove, 'tis true, to keep abreast
    Of MASEFIELD'S grim poetic frenzy,
  Sought Truth in WELLS, and did his best
    To like the Oxford of MACKENZIE;
  With YEATS he wandered in the Void,
    Tasted of SHAW'S dramatic jalap,
  Then turned with rapture unalloyed
    To DICKENS, THACKERAY and TROLLOPE.

  Thus handicapped, thus fortified,
    Behold him perilously faring
  Into a world where all are tried
    By boyhood's scrutiny unsparing;
  Where ev'ry trick of gait or speech
    Is most inexorably noted,
  And masters, more than what they teach,
    Are studied, criticised and quoted.

  His idols mostly left them cold--
    BAGEHOT, MATT. ARNOLD, SCOTT and MILTON;
  But they were quick in taking hold
    Of PRAED and J.K.S. and HILTON;
  And once undoubtedly he scored
    When, on a day of happy omen,
  He introduced them to A. WARD,
    The wisest of the tribe of showmen.

  But still his fervours left them calm--
    Emotion they considered freakish;--
  He felt with many an inward qualm
    That he was thoroughly un-beakish;
  His mood perplexed them; he was half
    Provocative, half deferential,
  Too anxious to provoke a laugh,
    Too vague where logic was essential.

  So, struggling on to bridge the gaps
    That seventeen from sixty sunder,
  And causing at his best, perhaps,
    A mild and intermittent wonder,
  At least he recognised the truth
    That there are other ways of earning
  The sympathy of clear-eyed youth
    Than by a mere parade of learning.

  And yet I think his pupils may
    In after years, at camp or college,
  Admit that in his rambling way
    He added to their stock of knowledge;
  And, as they ruefully recall
    His "jaws" on CLAUSEWITZ and JOMINI,
  On BALZAC, HEINE and JEAN PAUL,
    Think kindly of their dug-out dominie.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Hide-bound red tape rules the day." SIR F. MILNER'S Letter to
    "The Times."

It is much more effective than ordinary unreinforced variety.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Happy Family.

    "A milk deliverer 31 years of ago, who applied for exemption,
    said his father was an Atheist, his mother was 'all the other
    way about,' and his brother was a Socialist, and if he went away
    there would be war at home. He considered that he should stay at
    home to keep the peace."--Western Evening Herald.

But a merciful tribunal, thinking that he was more likely to find it in the trenches, only
exempted him for a month.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATIONAL SCAPE-GOAT ASSOCIATION.

My companion had come into the compartment hurriedly just as the train started. He was a small,
middle-aged, sandy-haired man with a straggling tufted beard, the sort of beard that looks
as if it owed its origin rather to forgetfulness than to any settled design. The expression
on his face and, indeed, over his whole body was a deprecating one. He reminded me of a dog
who has transgressed and begs humbly for forgiveness. He had no newspaper, and accepted the
offer of one of mine with a deference of gratitude that struck me as excessive. Soon after
that we slid into a conversation about the War and made most of the usual remarks.

"It's wonderful," he said, "how the country maintains its financial stability. Five millions
a day, you know. It's a pretty big sum, and yet nobody seems to feel it. Here we are, for instance,
you and I, travelling first-class."

"My next season-ticket is going to be third-class," I said. "All business has been hit very
hard, and we've simply got to economise."

"I daresay, I daresay," he said. "It may be so with some businesses. All I know is my business
hasn't gone off."

"Shipowner?" I said.

He gasped and shook his head emphatically. "Oh dear, no," he said. "Nothing of that kind--wish
I was. But you won't guess what I do, not if I were to let you have a thousand guesses." His
humility had vanished and he looked almost triumphant.

"I give it up at once," I said. "What are you?"

"I," he said, "am the National Scape-Goat Association."

"The what?" I said.

He repeated his words. "I see you don't understand," he went on, "so perhaps I'd better explain."

"Yes," I said, "much better."

"Well, it's this way," he said. "Have you ever written a book or been a Candidate for a seat
in the House of Commons?"

I said I hadn't.

"It doesn't matter," he said. "You'll understand what I mean. Take the politician first. He
issues an Address and makes speeches; in fact, does things which make him known to thousands
of people whom he doesn't know. Do you follow me?"

I said I did.

"Well, then, somebody posts back his Election Address with 'This is pitiful balderdash and
most ungrammatical' written plainly at the bottom of it. What would be your feelings if you
got a thing like that?"

"I shouldn't like it," I said.

"Of course you wouldn't. You'd want to kick the writer, or at the very least you'd want to
write back to him and tell him what you thought of him. But you can't do it, because of course
he hasn't signed his name or given any hint of his address. It's the same way with anonymous
letters of abuse. You can't answer them. So you 're done. You feel as if you'd tried to walk
up a step where there wasn't a step, and your temper suffers. That's where the Association
comes in. All you've got to do is to write to us, enclosing fee. For half-a-guinea we send
down to any address in England one of our experts from the Assault-and-Battery Department,
and you're entitled to kick him once--we guarantee him boot-proof, so you can kick as hard
as you like. Or, if you prefer writing to kicking, you can write to me as if I'd written the
anonymous letter or article or whatever it may be, and you can abuse me to your heart's content
for half-a-crown. For three shillings you can call me a pro-German. Anyhow, the result is that
your temper recovers and you feel perfectly satisfied. It's well worth the money, isn't it?
I'm thinking of starting a Subscriptions' Department, to which you could write a refusal of
any application for money, even if you have to subscribe in the end. It will give a man a pleasant
glow to write to a clergyman, for instance (I shall keep a dozen or so on the premises), and
say he'll be immortally jiggered if he'll subscribe to the Church Building Fund. But the anonymous
letter business will always be my chief source of profit. Here's our prospectus, with all details.
If you think any more of it perhaps you'll let me know. I get out here. Good-bye."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Kipling Revised.

    "Men of all castes had rallied to the Flag, and truly we had
    witnessed the truth of what the poet told us. 'The East is West
    and the West is East.'" Surrey Mirror.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Alfred Billinger and Albert Robson, miners ... were fined 20s.
    each for trespassing in search of fame." Provincial Paper.

Well, now they've got it.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In the Metropolitan Police District the employment of special
    constables has resulted in a saving of five-eighths of a
    penny."--Yorkshire Evening Post.

Very disappointing! Not even a whole copper.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the report of a Dairyman's Association:--

