A certain disgust with the colorless life of the philistine borough into which Weimar more
and more degenerated after Goethe's death may be read between the lines of this apostrophe.
Repelled by the gloomy humdrum and filled with dreams of past greatness as well as with longing
for a more abundant life in the future, the young writer felt the close confinement of her
home town. In this state of mind she met the man who proved to be her fate. Since his first,
unhappy marriage had been annulled according to Turkish, but not according to German law, she
followed him to Constantinople, and Helene Böhlau became Madame Al Raschid Bey. The Orient
furnished the German authoress with strikingly few motifs; but Munich, whither she later returned
with her husband, became her second home. On the bank of the Isar lies the scene of her best
novel, The Switching Station (1895). In this book she is a disciple of naturalism, not merely
in respect to the fidelity with which life in the art centre and the restless haste and nervous
disorderliness in an artist's family are depicted, but also in the use of symbolism after the
manner of Zola: for the switching station, with its purposeless turmoil, its disquietude, its
pulling and hauling, is a symbol for the noisy life in general, and in particular for the comfortless,
hapless marriage in which a delicately organized artistic soul is worried to death. The fate
of the woman who becomes the victim of a man is the theme of the succeeding novels, A Mother's
Rights (1897) and Half Beast (1899), in which Helene Böhlau enters the lists side by side with
Gabriele Reuter and Marie Janitschek and other women as a passionate champion of the rights
of her ever oppressed sex. From the point of view of literary art the immoderate formlessness
of these partisan novels was an aberration; but meanwhile the writer has once more emancipated
herself from such servitude to the cause. The finest understanding for feminine characters,
all of which are children of her heart, cannot indeed compensate for imperfect comprehension
of the masculine way of thinking. Strictly speaking, Helene Böhlau knows of only two sorts
of feeling for men: hatred of the brutal beast and admiration for an ideal, which is born of
longing to embrace a lofty, victorious personality. In real life she has found the fulfilment
of her longing in her husband, the strange prophet who as half a Turk gathered about himself
in Munich a queer circle of auditors for his mystical Oriental philosophy. To his memory she
erected a dutiful monument in her last work Isebies (1911), an apology for her own life, her
longing, her seeking, and her salvation. But even in this work the finest and the clearest
portion is the narrative of her childhood in Weimar. To the unique charm of her native town,
which like Bethlehem in Judaea was small and also great, Helene Böhlau returned in other stories
of Old Weimar written before her latest work appeared. To this series belongs The Ball of Crystal
(1903) with which our selections begin. Style and narrative art have matured; we have to do
no longer with mere anecdote, as in the Tales of the Councillor's Girls, but with a more concentrated
plot; the character of the heroine, which is symbolized by the title, is subjected to a more
profound psychological diagnosis; but we are still taken with the same purity of heart as in
the earlier narratives, and the quintessence of this book, as indeed of the entire literary
personality of the authoress, may be found in the final words of the Tales of the Councillor's
Girls: "The kind, the imperturbable, who with gentle readiness take good or evil as it comes--they
are the real heroes, not those who face life bristling like a porcupine. The only thing which
can give our hearts peace and happiness on earth is good will toward men."

Clara Viebig is a less gentle nature. She is a poetess not so much of the heart and soul as
of the impulsive temperament and the strong will. She has not passed through any vacillating
development, nor has naturalism been for her as for Helene Böhlau a mere preparatory school
or transition stage; on the contrary, in all her work she has consistently remained a disciple
of Zola and has not shrunk from any of the brutalities of his method. There is not much to
tell about the personal life of this authoress. Born at Treves on the Moselle in 1860 as the
daughter of an official in the civil service, she was taken when quite young to Düsseldorf
on the Rhine, but passed a part of her youth in eastern Germany, in Posen, the birthplace of
her parents. After her father's death she came to Berlin to study music; here she became a
writer, and now she is living as the wife of her publisher in the suburb of Zehlendorf. Her
spiritual experiences are perhaps most clearly set forth in the novel Long Live Art (1899).
The passionate struggles of a young authoress for literary success lead after many disappointed
hopes and many disillusionments to the attainment of genuine good fortune in art and in domestic
life as well. On her native heath the despairing woman is cured of her despair--this typifies
all the work of Clara Viebig, which reveals itself as pure Heimatkunst in advance of the time
when this label gained currency. To be sure, it is a triple home that Clara Viebig can call
her own, the Rhine country, eastern Germany, and Berlin. As might be expected, the memories
of childhood left the most lasting effect upon her. The Eifel, that bleak plateau between the
Moselle and the Rhine, with its broad melancholy heaths and bald craters of extinct volcanoes,
with its dark lakes and lonely forests, is the district with which she is most familiar. The
hard-headed, moody, quick-tempered peasants, whose stubbornness befits the volcanic origin
of their mountains, appear in her first collection of short stories, Children of the Eifel
(1897). In the Eifel is situated the Women's Village (1900), all the men of which seek their
livelihood overseas, so that all the women swarm about the only man left at home, a cripple.
The novel John Miller (1903) treats the tragedy of a rich man of the Eifel who goes to ruin
in pride and blind presumption; The Cross in the Venn (1908) deals with the religious life
of this district. The scene of the novel The Watch on the Rhine (1902) is Düsseldorf, where
the difficult process of amalgamation between Prussians and Rhinelanders, first accomplished
in 1870, is illustrated in the wedded life of a Prussian sergeant and the daughter of a Düsseldorf
innkeeper. The struggle of racial incompatibilities which is here depicted with the most matter-of-fact
objectivity, and which in a series of merry genre pictures is brought to a happy conclusion,
is carried in another work to a frightfully serious tragic ending. The Sleeping Host (1904)
takes us to the Prussian province of Posen and shows the effect of strife between German and
Slavic elements, in the fate of Rhenish immigrants whose efforts to found a new home for themselves
are brought to naught. A second novel of the eastern frontier, Absolvo Te (1907), is inferior
to the first, not in power of characterization, but in range of subject. Still a third work
treats the problem of a difference between blood and rearing, A Mother's Son (1906). The novel
traces the development of the son of a peasant woman of the Eifel who has been adopted by a
Berlin family and in whom, in spite of careful education, the evil disposition of his father
comes to the surface. In this artificial treatment of the theory of heredity Clara Viebig's
art does not appear to the best advantage; her forte is rather unbiased objectivity and penetrating
observation of every-day life. The other novels having their scene in Berlin are distinguished
for a keen sense for realities, as, for example, The Daily Bread (1900), a treatment of the
servant question which in the technique of Zola gives a panorama of the metropolis and of life
in the lower strata. A rise above the level of naturalism may be noted in the fact that the
last two novels of this author do not deal with the present but, like The Watch on the Rhine,
revert to themes in the history of social development. Those without the Gates (1910) depicts
the fate of the suburbanites who are submerged in the gigantic organism of the growing city;
the latest novel, Iron in the Fire (1913), has for its subject the time from 1848 to 1866,
the time of expectation; an old-fashioned Berlin smithy is the scene, the fire in the forge
and the power behind the hammer are symbols of the growth of the nation. Only in the dim background
does the figure of Bismarck appear, the smith who welded the parts of the empire into one;
it is characteristic of Clara Viebig's art that she allows great historical events to be mirrored
only in the little world of the actors in her little drama, whereas Helene Böhlau grants to
the historical figures of Old Weimar participation at least in episodes. Clara Viebig can compass
no great characters or persons of superior intelligence; even men she hardly shows otherwise
than in their sensual brutality. She succeeds best with simple, vegetative natures of elemental
instincts and eruptive passions, like the women of the Eifel, whose life of hardship, unhappiness
in love, and maternal sorrows she knows how to represent with telling power. From the collection
entitled Forces of Nature (1905) we have taken the story of a mother who for blind love of
her son becomes an incendiary--a story which reveals in high degree the peculiar quality of
this authoress. The scenes of Clara Viebig's life and work are on a line running from west
to east; the corresponding line for the following writers runs from north to south. Count Eduard
Keyserling and Thomas Mann are both of North German extraction and have both settled in Munich;
both are moreover very similar in their high esthetic culture and in a certain languid aristocracy
of feeling and ironical reticence; and their literary models (Dickens, Thackeray, Balzac, Fontane)
were the same.

Count Keyserling (born in 1858 at Pelsz-Paddernin in Curland) had the same experience as Fontane,
in that he was late in developing his particular style in narrative composition. When in the
eighties he made his first appearance in literary circles in Munich, he essayed very naturalistic
novels; his first, Rosa Herz (1885) deals with the fate of a poor victim of seduction. Thereupon
followed a series of dramas (Spring Sacrifice, 1899, Stupid Jack, 1901, Peter Hawel, 1903)
which in their delicate atmosphere, their finished technique, and the interest of their dialogue
deserved more attention than they received. Not until after the dawn of the new century did
the author find his true vocation in the telling of tales of his home country. Beata and Mamie
(1903) and Dumala (1908) are the great novels; Muggy Days (1906) and Gay Hearts (1909) are
collections of short stories. All revolve in the sphere of the East German country gentry,
in their white castles reflected in lakes, in their garden pavilions, and on the broad tracts
of their hunting preserves. It is always the same people with whom we have to do: imperious
counts who wish to be admired and to enjoy themselves, and whose life consists of hunting,
gaming, adultery, duelling, and ultimate return to impeccable correctness in their peaceful
homes. In this world, "hung with fine white curtains," there are women with the fine pallor
of the old families, they also full of longing for freshly pulsating life. When, however, the
yearned-for great experience finally knocks at their door, they draw back disappointed. Thus
it was with young Countess Billy when she eloped with her Polish cousin.

It is not this writer's business to preach new, revolutionary ideas and views. He narrates
typical cases with the dignified reserve of the skeptical man of the world, who knows how to
weave in everywhere the comments of a shrewd philosophy of life, who bridles passion with strict
self-control, and in the representation of the most tempestuous crises maintains sure mastery
over expression and form. The writer himself may share with his creations their longing for
fresh elemental power; but he is endowed with far too much of the traditional culture of his
caste ever to allow himself any obstreperous accents. The words of one of his dramatic figures
characterize his own art: "We no longer know how to underscore. Underscoring is in bad taste.
Those people out there live on underscoring."

Longing for abundant pulsating life, and autumnal renunciation on the part of a decaying family,
are also among the principal motifs in the work of Thomas Mann. "Life, revealing itself in
eternal contrariness to the spirit and to art--not as a vision of bloody greatness and untamed
beauty, not as something uncommon does it present itself to us uncommon people. On the contrary,
the normal, proper, and lovely is the realm of our longing, is life in its seductive banality!
He is far from being an artist, whose last and deepest yearning is for the superrefined, the
eccentric and satanical, who knows no longing for the innocent, the simple and living, for
a little friendship, devotion, confidential familiarity, and human happiness--the furtive and
consuming longing for the raptures of the common place!"

These sentiments of Mann's Tonio Kröger might animate one of Keyserling's characters, but Keyserling
would never express them in such impulsive fashion. Mann is much more subjective than Keyserling.
In all the experiences of his characters he is mirrored himself, and all of his writings make
and repeat one and the same confession as the foundation of his art, the solitude of the artist.

The cleft which separates two worlds is recognizable in his very parentage. Thomas Mann was
born in Lübeck in 1875, the son of a merchant and senator of the ancient Hanseatic city; his
mother is a Creole from South America. In his elder brother Heinrich Mann, perhaps a more ingenious,
but a less finished writer, of the nervous, ardently passionate, impressionistic sort, the
exotic heritage has tended to predominate; in Thomas Mann the correctness of the austere Hanseatic
city and her old traditions seems to be the strongest element. Because he cannot escape the
exasperating incompatibility between citizen and artist, between the instinct for conformity
and the will to be different, he fights this battle again and again, and bitter meditation
upon it has given him the themes of his principal works.

Mann's chief work, indubitably one of the best German novels of the last decades, is entitled
The Buddenbrooks, the Degeneration of a Family (1901). The book would perhaps never have been
written without the example of Zola in Les Rougon-Macquart, but it is far from being a mere
copy; for a much more personal conception of the subject and a tone of narration in which the
finest irony is mingled raise it far above the arid level of the roman expérimental. In four
generations, whose representatives are placed before us with uncommon plasticity and lifelikeness,
the decaying family slowly passes across the stage. From generation to generation the robust,
sober business sense is poisoned with a greater and greater infection of morbid feelings and
hypersensitive nerves, until finally the vitality of the family goes out like a burnt-up candle.

The great novel was followed by a collection of short stories, Tristan (1903), from which we
have selected Tonio Kröger. A tragedy of the Renaissance, Fiorenza (1905), develops the dualism
between real life and artistic existence, between the proud joy of living and ascetic hostility
to life, in two brothers of the house of Medici, Lorenzo and Girolamo, who are suitors for
the hand of one and the same woman. The following novel, His Royal Highness (1909), shows how
a prince, educated in aloofness from life, is saved from a living death through love for an
American heiress. Finally, there appeared only last year a masterpiece in the most exquisite
style, the narrative Death in Venice (1913). It is a heart-felt confession, taking as its theme
the chilling apprehension of approaching old age and death. In the late-awakening impulse of
love for a young boy there is here a generally misunderstood symbol of longing for life. The
figure of the hero, Gustav Aschenbach, evidently furnishes a key to unlock many mysteries in
the artistic work of the author:

He never knew the leisure, never the careless unconcern of youth. When in his thirty-fifth
year he fell ill in Vienna, a keen observer once remarked about him in company, "You see, Aschenbach
has always lived like this"--and he clenched his left fist--"never this way"--and he let his
open hand dangle from the arm of his chair. That was indeed the case; and the moral valor about
Aschenbach was that his constitution was in no sense robust, and that though called to unremitting
exertion, he was not really born to it.... With a strong will and tenacity comparable to that
which had subdued his native province, he worked for years under the stress of one and the
same task, and devoted to its proper accomplishment all of his strongest and best hours. He
almost loved the enervating, daily-renewed combat between his tenacious, proud, and often tried
willpower, and this ever-growing fatigue, which was his secret and which the product should
in no wise betray by signs of exhaustion or indifference.

Thomas Mann resembles his hero in being comparatively unproductive; but it should be added
at once that no one of his works fails to exhibit the utmost of artistic finish. Unrelaxing
attention and indefatigable effort to attain artistic form are the heritage of his North German
descent, of which he perhaps became fully conscious in South Germany, in the city of more easy-going
habits of life. In Buddenbrooks itself the difference between North and South plays an important
part; Tonie, the youngest daughter of the house of Buddenbrook, is twice married, first to
an unscrupulous speculator in Lübeck, the second time to a Munich dealer in hops, Aloysius
Permaneder, who rescues her from the disgraceful position of a divorced woman. This deliriously
portrayed beer-reeking philistine, whose informality and whose wild oaths horrify the prim
Lübeckers no less than his good-hearted naiveté amuses them, marries Tonie Buddenbrook, retires
from business on the strength of her dowry, and as an owner of real estate and a gentleman
of leisure passes the rest of his life in drinking beer morning and night, cutting coupons,
and annually raising the rent of his tenants. Such a successful caricature splendidly embodies
the stagnating spirit of the blissfully idyllic town which the metropolis of Bavaria has remained
in spite of all its growth.

And yet, in no other German city is there so high a degree of artistic culture, and the odor
of Munich beer seems to furnish a more favorable atmosphere for the creative artist than the
prestissimo of life in Berlin, which steels the nerves of the energetic, rushing man of business.
There are two sides to everything: the motto of the indolent man of Munich, "Let me alone"
(Mei Rua will i ham) gives to art that which it needs above all else, time, contemplativeness,
freedom. Nowhere can one so unrestrainedly cultivate one's own style of life as there. And
withal, artistic freedom of life accommodates itself remarkably well with the political narrowness
of the country under Clerical rule. The Bavarian phlegmatic temperament craves constant stimulation;
the political strife, in which there is no embittered fanaticism, but which in all good nature
sways backward and forward, is an indispensable condition of the national life. Combativeness
and the lust of vituperation are in the blood of the Bavarian people; it is all one, whether
we look for them in a riotous kirmess or in blunt ridicule, in the poetic improvisations of
which the quick-witted peasants, being especially gifted in mimicry, are unsurpassed.

Bavaria is accordingly the particular home of German satire. The best German comic papers are
published in Munich, and the most effective satirist of the present day is a Bavarian of the
Bavarians, Ludwig Thoma. He is the son of a Head Forester and was born in 1867 at that Oberammergau
where all the inhabitants every ten years dismiss the barber and let their long locks curl
about their necks, in order to perform before the assembled multitude their Passion Play, which
is pleasing in the sight of God and profitable to them. Thoma not only grew up among peasants;
later, as a lawyer in Dachau, he had abundant opportunity to become acquainted with their fondness
for litigation, their avarice, and their cunning. Now he is merely an author. In winter he
may be seen at Munich in company garb at first performances in the theatres; in summer, at
Tegernsee he appears in the midst of his beloved peasants dressed in their costume, homespun
jacket and leather breeches. In the same way his writings have two aspects, satire on society
and tales of rustic life. In the comic paper Simplicissimus he has often published political
verses over the pseudonym Peter Schlemihl; some of his dramas also (The Medal, 1901, The Branch
Road, 1902, The First-class Compartment, 1910, The Baby Farm, 1913) assail with never-failing
pungency the present governmental system in Bavaria; others (Morality, 1909, Lottie's Birthday,
1911) are directed with more general and less delicate ridicule against all sorts of common
place morality and the excrescences of moral reform. Delicious are his stories of the little
town, especially about the pranks that give expression to boyish impulses to incommode teachers,
stern neighbors, and maiden aunts. These are told in the naïvely impudent language of the school-boy
in Tales of Bad Boys (1904) and the continuation of this book, Aunt Frieda (1906). The philistine
population of the little town, Bavarian administration of justice, scenes in the Munich street
cars, and many another subject of that kind, Thoma humorously treats in Judge Charlie (1900)
and Tales of the Little Town (1908), in the broad anecdotal style which he has made his own.

His other subject is peasant life. In this too he begins as a satirist, with his collection
Agricola (1897); and the manner in which he at first indulges in grotesque exaggeration of
popular traits appears best perhaps in the introduction to the book, "adapted from Tacitus":

The German plain from the river Danube to the Alps is inhabited by the Baiovarii. I regard
them as the original inhabitants of this land, self-raised, as they call themselves in their
own tongue. It is difficult for immigrants to mingle with them. It is certain that foreigners
could never be confounded with the autochthonous folk.

Since this Germanic stock has remained free from contamination through intermarriage with alien
nations, it constitutes a separate, uniform race. Hence the same figure in all the representatives
of this numerous nation, the same uncommonly developed hands and feet, the same hard, impenetrable
formation of the head. Like their ancestors, they are fit for violent assault, and fond of
it. They show great capacity for the endurance of fatigue and tribulation; the only thing they
cannot endure is thirst.

This people is equipped with manifold weapons; but even in these they have more regard for
usefulness than for beauty. Widespread is the short dagger which every mature man carries in
the fold of his garment; but the use of it is not permitted--on the contrary, the powers that
be seek to get possession of all such; whereupon the common man replaces the lost weapon by
another. As missiles they have earthen mugs, with handles which make them likewise adaptable
for delivering blows. At their gathering places every man, when strife arises, seeks to possess
himself of as many of these as possible, and hurls them then uncommonly far. Most of the Baiovarii
carry a sort of spear, or in their language, "chaser", made of the hazel of their forests,
with blunt end, supple, and very handy. In the lack of these weapons, each man assumes any
that chance may offer. Indeed, for this purpose even articles of household furniture, such
as tables and chairs, are robbed of their supports. In high favor are also the constituent
parts of garden inclosures. Before the beginning of the conflict the battle song resounds.
It is not as though human throats, but rather as though the spirit of war were singing. They
essay chiefly the formation of wild sounds, and close their eyes as though thereby to reinforce
their utterance. They fight without a preconsidered plan of battle, each at the place that
he occupies. Of shields they make no employment. The head is deemed a natural protection, which
meets the shock of the attacking enemy and guards the rest of the body. Many even use the head
for the purposes of attack, when other weapons fail.

In this ridicule of savage pugnacity one cannot fail to see the secret love of the writer for
the uncouth power of his sound-hearted and sound-limbed compatriots. This same love explains
the contempt in which Thoma holds the sentimental depiction of parlor peasants which is so
often met with in family magazines. He knows no glossing-over, and what is boorish in his peasants,
he leaves boorish. But more and more he has developed from a satirist to a serious moralist
of his native land. In his stories Wedding (1901) and Matt the Holy (1904) the satirical purpose
predominates. But then, in his great novels, Thoma proceeds to more serious matters. One, Andreas
Vöst (1905), which develops to a magnificent climax the uncompromising rebellion of a stubborn
peasant against the superior resources of a malicious priest, with the consequent destruction
of the poor victim of his own sense of justice, might be compared with Kleist's masterly narrative
Michael Kohlhaas, if in the treatment of the antagonist Kleist's incorruptible objectivity
were not lacking and the whole did not, therefore, ultimately turn into pleading for a cause.
But when satire fails to amuse for bitterness, and humor fails to conciliate, the pictures
become almost too gloomy and the moral purpose too obtrusive. Thus it is in the novel The Widower
(1911). The folly of a lustful old peasant who in the toils of a scheming hussy supinely looks
on while his property goes to wrack and ruin and his son becomes a murderer, is here treated
with too harsh a naturalism. The same may be said of the drama Magdalena (1912), in which a
rustic Virginius makes of himself the judge of his daughter who has fallen into a life of public
shame.

The life of the closely related peasant stock of Austria has found hardly at any other hands
than those of the Tirolese Karl Schönherr an equally unadorned depiction. Rosegger's Styrian
peasants are, in spite of the pessimistic Sylvan Schoolmaster, drawn after all with much more
extenuating gentleness. More recent literary products of Styrian writers are, however, no whit
inferior in local patriotism to the works of the still living first master. The warmest praise
of his home land has been sung by Rudolf Hans Bartsch who, born in 1873 at Graz, lived for
many years as an officer in Vienna, until in 1911 he returned as a retired captain to his native
city. After an historical novel When Austria Disintegrated (1905), which dealt with the epoch
of Forty-eight, and was reissued under the title The Last Student, Bartsch celebrated his greatest
triumph with the novel Twelve Men of Styria (1908), a book of inexhaustible, exuberant youthfulness
and contagious optimism. The careers of the twelve youths who meet on the common ground of
love for the beautiful Frau von Karminell, and who set out together on the stormy path of life,
are only loosely connected; and yet the book achieves a unified effect, thanks to the wonderful
musical atmosphere which is its element, and to the pivotal position in it of province and
city: "Graz, city lost in the expanse of nature, so still, so receptive and yet fulfilled as
no other is with soft impressiveness; the green-dreaming, tree-rustling, gentle-singing city
of Graz, animate beyond all great cities with the soul of nature." The next novel, The Sons
of Haindl (1908), a collection of similar types of character in Viennese surroundings, is too
much of a repetition not to have proved a disappointment; as was also The German Sorrow (1911).
In the later Viennese novels Elisabeth Kött (1909) and The Story of Hannah and her Four Lovers
(1914) Bartsch lost much of his original vivacity and purity of style, and the novel Schwammerl
(1912), which revolves about the figure of the composer Schubert, falls in with the vogue of
that novel of the artistic life which has of late been cultivated in somewhat routine fashion
and to which--to mention only a few names--Goethe, Schiller, Grillparzer, Lenau, Wagner, and
Heine in his last years, succumbed. Bartsch was indeed led to this theme by an elective affinity;
for he is inspired in equal measure by love of music and love for Old Vienna, and he is capable
of entering with entire sympathy into the spirit of former times. To this capacity his short
stories entitled The Last Days of Rococo (1909) bear eloquent testimony, conjuring up as they
do with charming winsomeness the spirit of the epoch that preceded the French Revolution. The
second collection of narratives, Bitter-Sweet Love Stories (1910), brings us back to Austrian
territory. To this collection belongs The Styrian Wine Carrier, in which the ancient carefree
joyfulness of the highway falls a victim to the modern rush of business. Is not the fate of
the amiable, easy-going, reveling Styrian symbolical of the fate of the whole country of Austria,
which is organized on the outgrown plan of a former generation, and is now placed in opposition
to the iron necessity of modern progress? Bartsch has deeply felt the incompatibilities rooted
in the Austrian character: there are two souls, one desperately clinging to the Austria of
the good old times, to the long-lost lovely Vienna of the coach and post-horn, the other the
soul of turbulent young Austria, with its eye on the knotty problems of the future. But the
enervating atmosphere of literary Vienna, which Grillparzer once characterized as a "Capua
in the world of spirits," is the natural element of Old Austria, and we suspect that Bartsch,
whose rapid productivity defies stern artistic self-discipline, has not altogether escaped
its dangers.

The Alemannic races on the Upper German territories reveal a greater toughness of fibre and
more power of resistance. They are blunt individualists, whose love of country utters itself
with less enthusiasm and attains to perfect certainty perhaps only after a longing for adventures
abroad has been stilled.

