"The candles had been blown out. We surrounded him, and put a pistol to his head, and he wakened
with a start. We said to him, 'We want you, Count Saxe, only. We have force enough to carry
you all off--the house is surrounded, and we can bag every one of you--go with us quietly and
we will let the small fry off. But we are prepared for a fight, if necessary, knowing you are
but a handful.' Then Count Saxe said, quite coolly: 'I see there is no use in resisting. Let
me but secure some private letters--' which he proceeded to do, as well as he could in the
darkness, and with the pistol still at his ear. My captain said to him--'I wonder, Count Saxe,
that so experienced a general as your Excellency should have been so imprudent as to come here
with scarce a corporal's guard behind you.' 'True,' answered Count Saxe, 'but I am paying for
my folly, as you see. I am ready, gentlemen.' I never saw a man take his fate more pleasantly
than Count Saxe--he delayed not a moment. He is now our prisoner, while I am yours--but I fancy
we have rather the best of the bargain."

We looked at each other, and Count Saxe said:

"That fellow, Gaston Cheverny, has infinite readiness. He saved the whole of us, and he shall
have his promotion as soon as he is released. Meanwhile, my dear Lieutenant Brohl, make yourself
entirely at home. You are a gallant young man, and I shall have pleasure in exchanging you
for Captain Cheverny, waiving the difference of rank. So, both of you will get credit out of
this night's performance, although you did not get Count Saxe, for I am Count Saxe!"

I never saw such a change of countenance as came over that poor little sub-lieutenant. He caught
the idea in a moment, that the Austrians had been badly fooled. I felt really sorry for the
poor little fellow. His eyes filled with tears, his lip trembled. He was a gallant boy and
we all felt sorry for him. Count Saxe had him conducted to Gaston Cheverny's vacant room, sent
him some champagne, and assured him that his conduct should be brought to the attention of
Prince Eugene.

The rain had not ceased, but day was sullenly breaking. I thought, before nightfall, Gaston
Cheverny would be with us again. I did not dream of what Destiny was preparing for him, of
which this was but the overture. Count Saxe, with that noble candor which was a part of his
character, frankly admitted his imprudence in remaining at Hüningen, and declared that Gaston
Cheverny should be amply rewarded for saving him; for there is no doubt the Austrians would
have carried Count Saxe off, if they had only got into the right room.

As soon as the little Austrian lieutenant was up and dressed, I went into the room he had occupied
to secure Gaston Cheverny's papers until he should return. I felt sure that his pretense of
securing them was only an ineffectual ruse to gain time. I found nothing on his table of the
least consequence, except a letter to Francezka, sealed and addressed. Of this I took possession.

By nine o'clock in the morning, Count Saxe sent me across the river with a flag of truce, to
Prince Eugene's headquarters, to arrange for the exchange of Lieutenant Brohl for Gaston Cheverny.
I was instructed to waive the required number of common men to make up the difference in rank,
if that point were raised.

On reaching the Austrian lines, I was politely escorted to headquarters, where Prince Eugene,
that little great man, that mighty hunchback, received me courteously. I handed him Count Saxe's
letter and he took off his hat while reading it. He then said to me:

"Nothing has been heard of the expedition since it left last night. We feared the whole party
had been captured."

