 The Queen, who
had joined fight with Amadis, began giving him many fierce blows, some of which he received
upon his shield, while he let others be lost; yet he would not put his hand upon his sword,
but, instead of that, took a fragment of the lance which she had driven through his shield,
and struck her on the top of the helmet with it, so that in a little while he had knocked the
crest away."

We warned those of our fair readers who may have occasion to defend their rights at the point
of the lance, that the days of chivalry or the cavaliers of chivalry will be very unhandsome
in applying to them the rules of the tourney. Amadis, it will be observed here, does not condescend
to use his sword against a woman. And this is not from tenderness, but from contempt. For when
the Queen saw that he only took the broken truncheon of his lance to her, she fairly asked him why.

"'How is this, Amadis?' she said; 'do you consider my force so slight that you think to conquer
me with sticks?'

"And he said to her,--

"'Queen, I have always been in the habit of serving women and aiding them; and as you are a
woman, if I should use any weapon against you, I should deserve to lose all the honors I have
ever gained.'

"'What, then!' said the Queen, 'do you rank me among them? You shall see!'

"And taking her sword in both her hands, she struck him with great rage. Amadis raised his
shield and received the blow upon it, which was so brave and strong that the shield was cut
in two. Then, seeing her joined to him so closely, he passed the stick into his left hand,
seized her by the rim of her shield, and pulled her so forcibly, that, breaking the great thongs
by which she held upon it, he took it from her, lifting it up in one hand, and forced her to
kneel with one knee on the ground; and when she lightly sprang up, Amadis threw away his own
shield, and, seizing the other, took the stick and sprang to her, saying,--

"'Queen, yield yourself my prisoner, now that your Sultan is conquered.'

"She turned her head, and saw that Esplandian had the Sultan already surrendered as his prize.
But she said, 'Let me try fortune yet one more turn'; and then, raising her sword with both
her hands, she struck upon the crest of his helmet, thinking she could cut it and his head
in two. But Amadis warded the blow very lightly and turned it off, and struck her so heavy
a stroke with that fragment of the lance upon the crest of her helmet, that he stunned her
and made her sword fall from her hands. Amadis seized the sword, and, when she was thus disarmed,
caught at her helmet so strongly that he dragged it from her head, and said,--

"'Now are you my prisoner?'

"'Yes,' replied she; 'for there is nothing left for me to do.'

"At this moment Esplandian came to them with the Sultan, who had surrendered himself, and,
in sight of all the army, they repaired to the royal encampment, where they were received with
great pleasure, not only on account of the great victory in battle, which, after the great
deeds in arms which they had wrought before, as this history has shown, they did not regard
as very remarkable, but because they took this success as a good omen for the future. The King
Amadis asked the Count Gandalin to lead their prisoners to the Infanta Leonorina, in his behalf
and that of his son Esplandian, and to say to her that he begged her to do honor to the Sultan,
because he was so great a prince and so strong a knight, and, withal, very noble; and to do
honor to the Queen, because she was a woman; and to say that he trusted in God that thus they
should send to her all those whom they took captive alive in the battles which awaited them.

