"Complaints," says Madison in The Federalist, "are everywhere heard from our most considerate
and virtuous citizens, equally the friends of public and private faith, and of public and personal
liberty, that our governments are too unstable, that the public good is disregarded in the
conflicts of rival parties, and that measures are too often decided, not according to the rules
of justice and the rights of the minor party, but by the superior force of an interested and
overbearing majority."[34]

This criticism of the American government of the Revolutionary period gives us the point of
view of the framers of the Constitution. We should remember, however, that the so-called majority
rule to which Madison attributed the evils of that time had nothing in common with majority
rule as that term is now understood. Under the laws then in force the suffrage was greatly
restricted, while the high property qualifications required for office-holding had the effect
in many cases of placing the control of legislation in the hands of the wealthier part of the
community. But undemocratic as the system was, it was not sufficiently undemocratic to suit
the framers of the Constitution. It was no part of their plan to establish a government which
the people could control. In fact, popular control was what they were seeking to avoid. One
means of accomplishing this was to make amendment difficult, and this accordingly was done.
We need not be surprised that no provision was made for its original adoption, or subsequent
amendment by direct popular vote.[35]

The fact that the people can not directly propose, or even ratify changes in the fundamental
law, is a substantial check upon democracy. But in addition to this, another check was provided
in the extraordinary majority necessary to amend the Constitution. That it requires a two-thirds
majority of both houses of Congress, or an application from the legislature in two-thirds of
the states to merely set the machinery for constitutional amendment in motion, and that it
requires for ratification of amendments proposed, the assent of legislatures or conventions
in three-fourths of the states, ought to give one some idea of the extreme difficulty of changing
our Constitution.

Patrick Henry clearly saw that this lack of adequate provision for amendment was destructive
of democracy. In the Virginia convention held to ratify the Constitution he said:

"To encourage us to adopt it, they tell us that there is a plain, easy way of getting amendments.
When I come to contemplate this part, I suppose that I am mad, or that my countrymen are so.
The way to amendment is, in my conception, shut ..." After quoting Article V (the amendment
feature of the Constitution), he continues:

"Hence it appears that three-fourths of the states must ultimately agree to any amendments
that may be necessary. Let us consider the consequence of this.... Let us suppose--for the
case is supposable, possible and probable--that you happen to deal those powers to unworthy
hands; will they relinquish powers already in their possession, or agree to amendments? Two-thirds
of Congress, or of the state legislatures, are necessary even to propose amendments. If one-third
of these be unworthy men, they may prevent the application for amendments; but what is destructive
and mischievous, is, that three-fourths of the state legislatures, or of the state conventions,
must concur in the amendments when proposed! In such numerous bodies, there must necessarily
be some designing, bad men. To suppose that so large a number as three-fourths of the states
will concur, is to suppose that they will possess genius, intelligence, and integrity, approaching
to miraculous.... For four of the smallest states, that do not collectively contain one-tenth
part of the population of the United States, may obstruct the most salutary and necessary amendments.
Nay, in these four states, six-tenths of the people may reject these amendments.... A bare
majority in these four small states may hinder the adoption of amendments; so that we may fairly
and justly conclude that one-twentieth part of the American people may prevent the removal
of the most grievous inconveniences and oppression, by refusing to accede to amendments....
Is this an easy mode of securing the public liberty? It is, sir, a most fearful situation,
when the most contemptible minority can prevent the alteration of the most oppressive government;
for it may, in many respects, prove to be such."[36]

That such a small minority of the people should have the power under our constitutional arrangements
to prevent reform, can hardly be reconciled with the general belief that in this country the
majority rules. Yet small as was this minority when the Constitution was adopted, it is much
smaller now than it was then. In 1900 one forty-fourth of the population distributed so as
to constitute a majority in the twelve smallest states could defeat any proposed amendment.
As a matter of fact it is impossible to secure amendments to the Constitution, unless the sentiment
in favor of change amounts almost to a revolution. Only at critical times in our history have
constitutional amendments been adopted. During sixty-one years from 1804 to 1865, and since
1870, no amendments have been made. The fifteen amendments were all adopted, either during
the turbulent period of American politics which immediately followed the ratification of the
Constitution, or during the reconstruction period after the Civil War. That it is not possible
in ordinary times to change the Constitution is evident from the fact that of some twenty-two
hundred propositions for amendment only fifteen have been adopted, and these during the periods
above mentioned.[37]

"The argument in favor of these artificial majorities," says Professor Burgess, "is that innovation
is too strong an impulse in democratic states, and must be regulated; that the organic law
should be changed only after patience, experience and deliberation shall have demonstrated
the necessity of the change; and that too great fixedness of the law is better than too great
fluctuation. This is all true enough; but, on the other hand, it is equally true that development
is as much a law of state life as existence. Prohibit the former, and the latter is the existence
of the body after the spirit has departed. When, in a democratic political society, the well-matured,
long and deliberately formed will of the undoubted majority can be persistently and successfully
thwarted, in the amendment of its organic law, by the will of the minority, there is just as
much danger to the state from revolution and violence as there is from the caprice of the majority,
where the sovereignty of the bare majority is acknowledged. The safeguards against too radical
change must not be exaggerated to the point of dethroning the real sovereign."[38]

What Professor Burgess seems to overlook is the fact that the framers of the Constitution deliberately
intended to dethrone the numerical majority. The restrictions which they placed upon the exercise
of the amending power were not only not inconsistent with the form of government which they
established, but as a matter of fact absolutely necessary to ensure its preservation, since
without such a limitation of the power to amend, the majority could easily overcome all other
checks upon its authority.

This feature of the Constitution, which nominally provides for amendment, but really makes
it an impossibility, is perhaps the best proof we could have that the Constitution as framed
and adopted represented the views of a minority who intended by this means to perpetuate their
influence. But, we are told, this can not be the case since the states were free to accept
or reject it. Let us not forget, however, that at no stage of the proceedings was the matter
referred directly to the people. Bryce says: "Had the decision been left to what is now called
'the voice of the people,' that is, to the mass of the citizens all over the country, voting
at the polls, the voice of the people would probably have pronounced against the Constitution."[39]
Moreover, "the Convention met," as he observes, "at the most fortunate moment in American History
[for securing the adoption of such a constitution].... Had it been attempted four years earlier
or four years later at both of which times the waves of democracy were running high, it must
have failed."[40] But even under these favoring conditions it was no easy task to get the states
to adopt it. The advocates of the Constitution employed every argument and influence that could
contribute to the desired result. They appealed with telling effect to the dread of European
aggression. This induced many who had little sympathy with the proposed plan of government,
to acquiesce in its adoption, believing that some sort of a strong government was necessary
for purposes of defence. It was also boldly charged that money was employed to overcome opposition
where other means of persuasion failed.[41]

Our natural inclination is to disbelieve anything that reflects on the political methods employed
by the founders of our government. Nevertheless, the widespread belief that the politicians
and public men of that time were less corrupt than those of to-day is, as Professor McMaster
says, a pure delusion. "A very little study of long-forgotten politics will suffice to show
that in filibustering and gerrymandering, in stealing governorships and legislatures, in using
force at the polls, in colonizing and in distributing patronage to whom patronage is due, in
all the frauds and tricks that go to make up the worst form of practical politics, the men
who founded our state and national governments were always our equals, and often our masters."[42]
Of one thing we may be reasonably certain--the Constitution as adopted did not represent the
political views of a majority of the American people--probably not even a majority of those
entitled to vote. Universal suffrage, we must remember, did not then exist, and both property
and religious qualifications limited the right to hold public office. This of itself is evidence
that those who then controlled politics did not believe in the right of the majority to rule.
And when we take account of the further fact that this was a time of political reaction, when
the government of the country was largely in the hands of those who despised or feared democracy,
we can easily see that the natural effects of a restricted suffrage may have been intensified
by those methods of "practical politics" which not infrequently defeat the will of the majority
even to-day under universal suffrage. That it was the intention of the framers of the Constitution
to bring about, if possible, the adoption of a form of government of which the majority of
the people did not approve, is clearly established by the record of their proceedings. Hamilton,
referring to the plan of government which he had proposed, said: "I confess that this plan,
and that from Virginia [the one submitted by Randolph and of which the Constitution as finally
adopted was a modification], are very remote from the idea of the people. Perhaps the Jersey
plan is nearest their expectation. But the people are gradually ripening in their opinions
of government--they begin to be tired of an excess of democracy...."[43]

"The Federal government was not by intention a democratic government. In plan and structure
it had been meant to check the sweep and power of popular majorities. The Senate, it was believed,
would be a stronghold of conservatism, if not of aristocracy and wealth. The President, it
was expected, would be the choice of representative men acting in the electoral college, and
not of the people. The Federal judiciary was looked to, with its virtually permanent membership,
to hold the entire structure of national politics in nice balance against all disturbing influences,
whether of popular impulse or of official overbearance. Only in the House of Representatives
were the people to be accorded an immediate audience and a direct means of making their will
effective in affairs. The government had, in fact, been originated and organized upon the initiative
and primarily in the interest of the mercantile and wealthy classes. Originally conceived as
an effort to accommodate commercial disputes between the States, it had been urged to adoption
by a minority, under the concerted and aggressive leadership of able men representing a ruling
class. The Federalists not only had on their side the power of convincing argument, but also
the pressure of a strong and intelligent class, possessed of unity and informed by a conscious
solidarity of material interests."[44]

The Constitution would certainly have been rejected, notwithstanding the influences that were
arrayed in favor of its adoption, but for the belief that it would shortly be amended so as
to remove some of its more objectionable features. In the large and influential states of Massachusetts,
New York, and Virginia it was ratified by very small majorities,[45] though each of these states
accompanied its acceptance of the Constitution with various recommendations for amendment.
As a result of these suggestions from the states ratifying it, the first Congress in 1789 framed
and submitted the first ten amendments. The eleventh amendment was the outgrowth of the Supreme
Court decision in the case of Chisholm v. The State of Georgia. In this case the court held,
contrary to the interpretation given to the Constitution by Hamilton when defending it in The
Federalist,[46] that a private plaintiff could sue a state in the Federal Court. This decision
aroused a storm of indignation, and Congress in 1794 proposed the Eleventh Amendment, which
counteracted the effect of this decision. The Twelfth Amendment, proposed by Congress in 1803,
merely changed the method of electing the President to meet the requirements of the party system
which had then come into existence.

These first twelve amendments were all adopted during the infancy of the Constitution, and
while it was still regarded as an experiment. But though they had the effect of quieting public
opinion and allaying the fears of the people concerning the new form of government, they made
no important changes in the Constitution, leaving all its main features as originally adopted.
The same may be said of the last three amendments, which were the result of the Civil War.
They were proposed and ratified, as Bryce says, "under conditions altogether abnormal, some
of the lately conquered states ratifying while actually controlled by the Northern armies,
others as the price which they were obliged to pay for the readmission to Congress of their
senators and representatives."[47] These amendments were really carried through, not by the
free choice of three-fourths of the states, as the Constitution requires, "but under the pressure
of a majority which had triumphed in a great war,"[48] and used military and political coercion
to accomplish what otherwise could not have been brought about. Nothing could have been farther
from the intention of the victorious Northern states at that time than any important change
in the form or character of the government which they had waged a gigantic civil war to defend
and enforce. Slavery, it is true, was abolished to remove forever the bone of contention between
the North and the South. But the Constitution survived the Civil War, unchanged in all its
essential features, and more firmly established than ever.

That the plan of government originally established has undergone no important modification
by constitutional amendment can not be ascribed to the fact that important changes have not
been suggested. With the growth of more liberal views concerning government many attempts have
been made to remove the constitutional barriers erected by our forefathers to stay the progress
of democracy. Among the political reforms contemplated by this numerous class of proposed amendments
may be mentioned a shorter term for United States senators and election by popular vote; direct
election of the President and the abolition of his veto power; a shorter term for Federal judges
and their removal by the President on the joint address of both houses of Congress. The aim
of all these proposed amendments has been the same, viz., to make the Constitution accord better
with the democratic spirit of the time. It is interesting to observe, however, that with the
single exception of the proposed election of United States senators by popular vote, not one
of these had the support of either house of Congress, much less the two-thirds majority in
both, or a majority in the legislatures of two-thirds of the states, as required to authorize
their submission for ratification or rejection. Even this measure, which has passed the House
of Representatives several times by an overwhelming vote, has been entirely ignored by the Senate.

No proposal, then, to make any important change in the Constitution has ever obtained the preliminary
two-thirds majority, to say nothing of the majority in three-fourths of the states, necessary
for its adoption.

That the majority required to propose an amendment is almost prohibitive of change, is shown
by the record of popular elections and the journals of representative bodies. From the presidential
election year of 1828, the first for which we have a record of the popular vote, down to 1900,
the largest majority ever received by any candidate for the Presidency was that of Andrew Jackson
in 1828, when he had less than 56 per cent. of the popular vote.[49] Nine elections since Jackson's
time resulted in the choice of a President by less than a popular majority. No candidate in
any presidential election from 1876 to 1900 inclusive has carried two-thirds of the states.[50]

It is still more difficult for any important reform measure to secure a two-thirds majority
in a representative assembly, as the proceedings of Congress and our state legislatures abundantly
prove. This is true for the reason that a wealthy minority can exert an influence over such
bodies out of all proportion to its numerical strength at the polls. Hence even a bare majority
can seldom be obtained for any measure which interferes with or restricts the privileges of
organized wealth. A two-thirds majority under such circumstances is practically impossible.
And when we remember that any proposed amendment to the Constitution must twice run the gauntlet
of representative assemblies, receiving first a two-thirds majority in both houses of Congress
and later a majority in both houses of the legislature or in conventions in three-fourths of
the states, we readily see that this provision effectually precludes the possibility of any
important amendment.

