The first question which arises in this connection is, How can Circe, the enchantress of the
senses, be made the prophetess of the supersensible world? If we watch her development through
the two preceding stages, we shall see that she not only can, but must point to what is beyond,
to spirit. In the second stage she experiences a great change, no longer transforming into
the lower, but herself transformed into the higher; she becomes a moral being, subordinating
the sensuous to the spiritual; she has, therefore, spirit in her life and manifests it in her
actions, when she is the willing means of subjecting appetite to reason.

The same transformation we may note on her artistic side, for she remains always beautiful.
The first Circe is that alluring seductive beauty which destroys by catering to the senses;
she is that kind of art, which debauches through its appeal to appetite and passion alone.
But the second Circe is transfigured, her service is of the spirit, she releases from the bondage
of indulgence, she aids the ethical Return to Family and State. It is true that she never becomes
a saint or a nun, she would not be Greek if she did; moreover, according to the Greek view,
she must be transcended by the typical man, who is to rise into an institutional life, which
is hardly Circe's. Still the primal moral subjection is shown in her career.

The domain of morals reveals the spiritual in action, the domain of true art reveals the spiritual
in representation. What shall I do with this world of the senses? was a great question to the
Greek, and still is to us. In conduct subordinate it; in nature transform it into an image
of the higher. The work of art is a divine flash from above into a sensuous form; this flash
we separate from its material, and pass into pure spirit; then we reach Tiresias, the mind
embodied, not limited in Space and Time.

Circe thus indicates her own limitation, which belongs to morals and art. She is not the Infinite,
but can point to it; she hints the rise from art to philosophy. Backwards and forwards runs
the suggestion in her career; the Greek can lapse to the first Circe and die in a debauch of
the senses, or he can rise to the prophetic Circe, and lay the deep foundation of all future
thought. The Greek world, in fact, had just this double outcome.

Ulysses, then, has to go to Hades, the supersensible realm; his heart was wrung, "I wept sitting
upon the couch, I wished no longer to live nor to see the light of the sun." But after such
a fit, he is ready for action: "when I had enough of weeping and rolling about, I asked Circe:
Who will guide me?" Then he receives his instructions, which have somewhat of the character
of a mystic ritual, with offerings to the dead, who will come and speak. Messages from the
spirit world he will get, but he must pass through the Ocean stream, to the groves of Proserpine.
From that point, after mooring his ship, he is to go to the houses of Hades, where is a rock
at the meeting of two loud-roaring rivers; "pour there a libation to the dead" with due ceremony.
In all of which is the method of the later necromancy, or consultation of the departed for
prophetic purposes. Very old is the faith that the souls of deceased persons can be made to
appear and to foretell the future, after a proper rite and invocation; nor is such a belief
unknown in our day.

Ulysses departs from Circe's palace and tells his companions concerning the new voyage: whereat
another scene of lamentation. To the Greek the Underworld was a place of gloom and terror;
he liked not the spirit disembodied, he needed the sensuous form for his thought, he was an
artist by nature. The Homeric Greek in particular was the incarnation of the sunny Upperworld,
he shuddered at the idea of separating from it and its fair shapes. But the thing must be done,
as it lies in the path of development as well as in the movement of this poem.

Ulysses must therefore go below, inasmuch as this world with its moral life even, is not the
finality. There is aught beyond, the limit of death we must surmount in the present existence
still; a glimpse of futurity the mortal must have before going thither. So Homer makes the
Hero transcend life as it were, during life; and extend his wanderings into the supersensible
world.

The reader has now witnessed the three stages of this Tenth Book--Æolus, the Læstrigonians,
and Circe. The inner connection between these three stages has also been investigated and brought
to the surface; at least such has been the persistent attempt. Especially has Circe been unfolded
in the different phases which she shows--all of which have been traced back to a unity of character.

The intimate relation between the Ninth and Tenth Books has been set forth along with their
differences. Both belong to the Upperworld of this Fableland; hence they stand in contrast
with the Netherworld, which is now to follow.

BOOK ELEVENTH.

The present Book is one of the most influential pieces of writing which man has produced. It
has come down through the ages with a marvelous power of reproduction; in many ways poets have
sought to create it over; indeed Time has imitated it in a series of fresh shapes. Virgil,
not to speak of other attempts in ancient Greek epics, has re-written it in the Sixth Book
of the Æneid; from Virgil it passed to Dante who has made its thought the mould which shapes
his entire poem--the Divine Comedy.

It is one phase of the great Mythus of the Apocalypse, or the uncovering of the Future State,
which in some form belongs to all peoples, and which springs from the very nature of human
spirit. Man must know the Beyond; especially the Hero, the spiritual Hero of his race, must
extend his adventures, not only over the world, but into the other world, and bring back thence
the news concerning those who have already departed.

This then is the supreme Return of the Hero, the Return from beyond life, still alive; he is
to conquer not only the monster Polyphemus and the enchantress Circe, but also the greatest
goblin of all, Death. Common mortals have to make the passage thither without returning; the
Hero must be the grand exception, else he were no Hero. Transcendent must he be, rising above
all limits, even the limit of life and death.

We have, therefore, in the present Book the Greek glance into immortality. This is the essence
of it, hence its prodigious hold upon human kind. That the conscious individual persists after
the dissolution of the physical body is here strongly affirmed; indeed the world beyond is
organized, and its connection with the world on this side is unfolded, in a series of striking
pictures for the imagination. It is thus a grand chapter in the history of the soul's consciousness
of its eternal portion, is in fact the middle link between the Oriental and the Christian view
of immortality.

