Note: The Table of Contents and the list of illustrations were added
  by the transcriber.]

  McCLURE'S MAGAZINE

  MARCH, 1896.

  VOL. VI. NO. 4.

  TABLE OF CONTENTS

  ILLUSTRATIONS.
  ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By Ida M. Tarbell.
    Lincoln Is Admitted to the Bar.
    Lincoln in the Tenth Assembly of Illinois.
    The Removal of the Capital to Springfield.
    Lincoln's First Reported Speech.
    Abraham Lincoln's First Protest Against Slavery.
    Social Life in Vandalia in 1836 and 1837.
    Lincoln Moves to Springfield.
    Lincoln's Position in Springfield.
  THE SHIP THAT FOUND HERSELF. By Rudyard Kipling.
  A CENTURY OF PAINTING. By Will H. Low.
  CY AND I. By Eugene Field.
  A YOUNG HERO. By John Hay.
  CHAPTERS FROM A LIFE. By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps.
  LOST YOUTH. By R.L. Stevenson.
  THE DIVIDED HOUSE. By Julia D. Whiting.
  SCIENTIFIC KITE-FLYING. By Cleveland Moffett.
    How to Make a Scientific Kite.
    How to Send Up a Kite.
    Runaway Tandems.
    The Lifting Power of Kites.
    The Meteorological Use of Kites.
    The Highest Flight Ever Made by a Kite.
    Drawing Down Electricity by a Kite-string.
    The Use of Kites in Photography.
    Possible Use of Kites in War.
  A DRAMATIC POINT. By Robert Barr.
  EDITORIAL NOTES.
    "Justice, Where Art Thou?"
    "A Disgrace to Civilization."
    The Real Lincoln.
    Lincoln in 1860--J. Henry Brown's Journal.

  ILLUSTRATIONS

  LINCOLN IN 1860.
  LINCOLN IN 1860.
  EBENEZER PECK.
  MEMBERS OF THE SANGAMON SOCIETY DELEGATION IN THE TENTH ILLINOIS
      ASSEMBLY.
  ELIJAH PARISH LOVEJOY.
  LINCOLN IN 1863 OR 1864.
  FRONTISPIECE OF "ALTON TRIALS," A SMALL VOLUME PUBLISHED IN 1838.
  STUART AND LINCOLN'S PROFESSIONAL CARD.
  OFFICE CHAIR FROM STUART AND LINCOLN'S LAW OFFICE.
  STUART AND LINCOLN'S LAW OFFICE.
  A STAGE-COACH ADVERTISEMENT, 1834.
  MARY L. OWENS.
  LINCOLN AND HIS SON THOMAS, FAMILIARLY KNOWN AS "TAD."
  PAGE FROM STUART AND LINCOLN'S FEE BOOK.
  OLD SECOND PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS.
  WILLIAM BUTLER.
  INVITATION TO A SPRINGFIELD COTILLION PARTY.
  MAP OF ILLINOIS.
  THE WAVE "WENT OUT IN THREE SURGES, MAKING A CLEAN SWEEP OF A BOAT."
  THE "DIMBULA" TAKING CARGO FOR HER FIRST VOYAGE.
  "AN UNUSUALLY SEVERE PITCH ... HAD LIFTED THE BIG THROBBING SCREW
      NEARLY TO THE SURFACE."
  THE GARROTED MAN. FROM AN ETCHING BY GOYA.
  DEATH ON THE BATTLE-FIELD. FROM AN ETCHING BY GOYA.
  GOYA. FROM A PORTRAIT ETCHED BY HIMSELF.
  ST. JUSTINA AND ST. RUFINA. FROM A PAINTING BY GOYA.
  THE BLIND FIDDLER. FROM A PAINTING BY SIR DAVID WILKIE.
  CHOOSING THE WEDDING GOWN. FROM A PAINTING BY WILLIAM MULREADY.
  CONTRARY WINDS. FROM A PAINTING BY THOMAS WEBSTER.
  SANCHO PANZA IN THE APARTMENT OF THE DUCHESS.
  THE RAFT OF THE "MEDUSA." FROM A PAINTING BY GÉRICAULT.
  INGRES. FROM A PORTRAIT PAINTED BY HIMSELF.
  DELACROIX. FROM A PORTRAIT PAINTED BY HIMSELF IN 1837.
  A PORTRAIT OF INGRES, DRAWN IN ROME IN 1816.
  APOTHEOSIS OF HOMER. FROM A PAINTING BY INGRES.
  THE SEIZURE OF CONSTANTINOPLE BY THE CRUSADERS.
  DANTE AND VIRGIL CROSSING THE LAKE WHICH SURROUNDS THE INFERNAL
      CITY OF DITÉ.
  HENRY H. MILLER, A MEMBER OF THE ORGINAL COMPANY OF ELLSWORTH
      ZOUAVES.
  ELLSWORTH IN THE SPRING OF 1861.
  ELLSWORTH IN 1860.
  FRANK E. BROWNELL, WHO KILLED THE ASSASSIN OF COLONEL ELLSWORTH.
  THE DEATH OF COLONEL ELLSWORTH.
  THE MARSHALL HOUSE, ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA.
  COLONEL ELLSWORTH AND A GROUP OF MILITIA OFFICERS.
  "THE OLD BRICK ACADEMY," PHILLIPS ACADEMY, ANDOVER, MASSACUSETTS.
  ABBOT ACADEMY, ANDOVER, MASSACHUSETTS.
  "THE STONE BUILDING," PHILLIPS ACADEMY, ANDOVER, MASSACHUSETTS.
  THE HOUSE IN ANDOVER, MASSACHUSETTS, CONTAINING THE SCHOOL CALLED
      "THE NUNNERY."
  HENRY MILLS ALDEN, EDITOR OF "HARPER'S MAGAZINE."
  ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON AT THE AGE OF FOURTEEN.
  "THE DOCTOR DON'T SEEM TO THINK I SHALL TUCKER IT OUT MUCH LONGER."
  THE DIVIDED HOUSE.
  "AS ARMIDA SAT ON THE BENCH UNDER THE OLD RUSSET APPLE-TREE, ..."
  EVENING IN THE DIVIDED KITCHEN.
  "LOOKING BEFORE THEM THEY COULD SEE BOTH HUSBAND AND WIFE MOTIONLESS
      IN THE ROAD."
  HARGRAVE LIFTED SIXTEEN FEET FROM THE GROUND BY A TANDEM OF HIS
      BOX-KITES.
  FRANKFORT STREET. PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEW FROM A KITE.
  FRANKFORT STREET. PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEW FROM A KITE. (ANOTHER VIEW.)
  THE EDDY TAILLESS KITE.
  THE HARGRAVE BOX-KITE.
  NEW YORK, EAST RIVER, BROOKLYN, AND NEW YORK BAY, FROM A KITE.
  PHOTOGRAPHING FROM A KITE-LINE.
  CITY HALL PARK AND BROADWAY FROM A KITE.
  MURRAY AND WARREN STREETS, NEW YORK CITY, FROM A KITE.
  KITE-DRAWN BUOY.
  DIRIGIBLE KITE-DRAWN BUOY.
  THE KITE-BUOY IN SERVICE.
  "MY GOD!--YOU WERE RIGHT--AFTER ALL."

McCLURE'S MAGAZINE.

VOL. VI. MARCH, 1896. No. 4.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

BY IDA M. TARBELL.

LINCOLN'S ELECTION TO THE TENTH ASSEMBLY.--ADMISSION TO THE BAR.--REMOVAL TO SPRINGFIELD.

The first twenty-six years of Abraham Lincoln's life have been traced in the preceding chapters.
We have seen him struggling to escape from the lot of a common farm laborer, to which he seemed
to be born; becoming a flatboatman, a grocery clerk, a store-keeper, a postmaster, and finally
a surveyor. We have traced his efforts to rise above the intellectual apathy and the indifference
to culture which characterized the people among whom he was reared, by studying with eagerness
every subject on which he could find books,--biography, state history, mathematics, grammar,
surveying, and finally law. We have followed his growth in ambition and in popularity from
the day when, on a keg in an Indiana grocery, he debated the contents of the Louisville "Journal"
with a company of admiring elders, to the time when, purely because he was liked, he was elected
to the State Assembly of Illinois by the people of Sangamon County. His joys and sorrows have
been reviewed from his childhood in Kentucky to the day of the death of the woman he loved
and had hoped to make his wife. These twenty-six years form the first period of Lincoln's life.
It was a period of makeshifts and experiments, ending in a tragic sorrow; but at its close
he had definite aims, and preparation and experience enough to convince him that he dared follow
them. Law and politics were the fields he had chosen, and in the first year of the second period
of his life, 1836, he entered them definitely.

The Ninth General Assembly of Illinois, in which Lincoln had done his preparatory work as a
legislator, was dissolved, and in June, 1836, he announced himself as a candidate for the Tenth
Assembly.

The campaign which Lincoln began with this letter was in every way more exciting for him than
those of 1832 and 1834. Since the last election a census had been taken in Illinois which showed
so large an increase in the population that the legislative districts had been reapportioned
and the General Assembly increased by fifty members. In this reapportionment Sangamon County's
delegation had been enlarged to seven representatives and two senators. This gave large new
opportunity to political ambition, and doubled the enthusiasm of political meetings.

But the increase of the representation was not all that made the campaign exciting. Party lines
had never before been so clearly drawn, nor personal abuse quite so intense. One of Lincoln's
first acts was to answer a personal attack. He did it in a letter marked by candor, good-humor,
and shrewdness.

    "COLONEL ROBERT ALLEN."

Usually during the campaign Lincoln was obliged to meet personal attacks, not by letter, but
on the platform. Joshua Speed, who later became the most intimate friend that Lincoln probably
ever had, tells of one occasion when he was obliged to meet such an attack on the very spur
of the moment. A great mass-meeting was in progress at Springfield, and Lincoln had made a
speech which had produced a deep impression. "I was then fresh from Kentucky," says Mr. Speed,
"and had heard many of her great orators. It seemed to me then, as it seems to me now, that
I never heard a more effective speaker. He carried the crowd with him, and swayed them as he
pleased. So deep an impression did he make that George Forquer, a man of much celebrity as
a sarcastic speaker and with a great reputation throughout the State as an orator, rose and
asked the people to hear him. He began his speech by saying that this young man would have
to be taken down, and he was sorry that the task devolved upon him. He made what was called
one of his 'slasher-gaff' speeches, dealing much in ridicule and sarcasm. Lincoln stood near
him, with his arms folded, never interrupting him. When Forquer was done, Lincoln walked to
the stand, and replied so fully and completely that his friends bore him from the court-house
on their shoulders.

"So deep an impression did this first speech make upon me that I remember its conclusion now,
after a lapse of thirty-eight years. Lincoln had seen the lightning-rod for the first time
on the day before."

This speech has never been forgotten in Springfield, and on my visits there I have repeatedly
had the site of the house on which this particular lightning-rod was placed pointed out, and
one or another of the many versions which the story has been given, related to me. The nine
successful candidates were Abraham Lincoln, John Dawson, Daniel Stone, Ninian W. Edwards, William
F. Elkins, R.L. Wilson, Andrew McCormick, Job Fletcher, and Arthur Herndon. Each one of these
men was over six feet in height, their combined stature being, it is said, fifty-five feet.
The "Long Nine" was the name Sangamon County gave them.

LINCOLN IS ADMITTED TO THE BAR.

As soon as the election was over Lincoln occupied himself in settling another matter, of much
greater moment, in his own judgment. He went to Springfield to seek admission to the bar. The
"roll of attorneys and counsellors at law," on file in the office of the clerk of the Supreme
Court at Springfield, Illinois, shows that his license was dated September 9, 1836, and that
the date of the enrollment of his name upon the official list was March 1, 1837. The first
case in which he was concerned, as far as we know, was that of Hawthorn against Woolridge.
He made his first appearance in court in October, 1836.

Although he had given much time during this year to politics and the law, he had by no means
abandoned surveying. Indeed he never had more calls. Surveying was particularly brisk at the
moment, and he frequently was obliged to be away for three and four weeks at a time, laying
out towns or locating roads. "When he got a job," says the Hon. J.M. Ruggles, a friend and
political supporter of Mr. Lincoln, "there was a picnic and jolly time in the neighborhood.
Men and boys would gather around, ready to carry chain, drive stakes, and blaze trees, but
mainly to hear Lincoln's odd stories and jokes. The fun was interspersed with foot races and
wrestling matches. To this day the old settlers around Bath repeat the incidents of Lincoln's
sojourns in their neighborhood while surveying that town."

LINCOLN IN THE TENTH ASSEMBLY OF ILLINOIS

In December Lincoln put away his surveying instruments to go to Vandalia for the opening session
of the Tenth Assembly. Larger by fifty members than its predecessor, this body was as much
superior in intellect as in numbers. It included among its members a future President of the
United States, a future candidate for the same high office, six future United States Senators,
eight future members of the National House of Representatives, a future Secretary of the Interior,
and three future Judges of the State Supreme Court. Here sat side by side Abraham Lincoln and
Stephen A. Douglas; Edward Dickinson Baker, who represented at different times the States of
Illinois and Oregon in the national councils; O.H. Browning, a prospective senator and future
cabinet officer, and William L.D. Ewing, who had just served in the senate; John Logan, father
of the late General John A. Logan; Robert M. Cullom, father of Senator Shelby M. Cullom; John
A. McClernand, afterward member of Congress for many years, and a distinguished general in
the late Civil War; and many others of national repute.[2]

The members came to Vandalia full of hope and exultation. In their judgment it needed only
a few months of legislation to put their State by the side of New York; and from the opening
of the session they were overflowing with excitement and schemes. In the general ebullition
of spirits which characterized the Assembly, Lincoln had little share.

Though depressed, he was far from being inactive. The Sangamon delegation, in fact, had their
hands full, and to no one of the nine had more been entrusted than to Lincoln. In common with
almost every delegation, they had been instructed by their constituents to adopt a scheme of
internal improvements complete enough to give every budding town in Illinois easy communication
with the world. This for the State in general; for Sangamon County in particular, they had
been directed to secure the capital. The change in the State's centre of population made it
advisable to move the seat of government northward from Vandalia, and Springfield was anxious
to secure it. To Lincoln was entrusted the work of putting through the bill to remove the capital.
In the same letter quoted from above he tells Miss Owens, "Our chance to take the seat of government
to Springfield is better than I expected." Regarding the internal improvements scheme he feels
less confident: "Some of the legislature are for it, and some against; which has the majority,
I cannot tell."

It was not long, however, before all uncertainty about internal improvements was over. The
people were determined to have them, and the Assembly responded to their demands by passing
an act which provided, at State expense, for railroads, canals, or river improvements in almost
every county in Illinois. To compensate those counties to which they could not give anything
else, they voted them a sum of money for roads and bridges. No finer bit of imaginative work
was ever done, in fact, by a legislative body, than the map of internal improvements made by
the Tenth Assembly of Illinois.

There was no time to estimate exactly the cost of these fine plans. Nor did they feel any need
of estimates; that was a mere matter of detail. They would vote a fund, and when that was exhausted
they would vote more; and so they appropriated sum after sum: one hundred thousand dollars
to improve the Rock River; one million eight hundred thousand dollars to build a road from
Quincy to Danville; four million dollars to complete the Illinois and Michigan Canal; two hundred
and fifty thousand for the Western Mail Route--in all, some twelve million dollars. To carry
out the elaborate scheme, they provided a commission, one of the first duties of which was
to sell the bonds of the State to raise the money for the enterprise. The majority of the Assembly
seem not to have entertained for a moment an idea that there would be any difficulty in selling
at a premium the bonds of Illinois. "On the contrary," as General Linder says in his "Reminiscences,"
"the enthusiastic friends of the measure maintained that, instead of there being any difficulty
in obtaining a loan of the fifteen or twenty millions authorized to be borrowed, our bonds
would go like hot cakes, and be sought for by the Rothschilds, and Baring Brothers, and others
of that stamp; and that the premiums which we would obtain upon them would range from fifty
to one hundred per cent., and that the premium itself would be sufficient to construct most
of the important works, leaving the principal sum to go into our treasury, and leave the people
free from taxation for years to come."

THE REMOVAL OF THE CAPITAL TO SPRINGFIELD.

Although Lincoln favored and aided in every way the plan for internal improvements, his real
work was in securing the removal of the capital to Springfield. The task was by no means an
easy one to direct; for outside of the "Long Nine" there was, of course, nobody particularly
interested in Springfield, and there were delegations from a dozen other counties hot to secure
the capital for their own constituencies. It took patient and clever manipulation to put the
bill through. Certain votes Lincoln, no doubt, gained for his cause by force of his personal
qualities. Thus Jesse K. Dubois says that he and his colleagues voted for the bill because
they liked Lincoln, and wanted to oblige him. But probably the majority were won by skilful
log-rolling. Not that Lincoln ever sanctioned "trading" to the sacrifice of his own convictions.
General T.H. Henderson, of Illinois, says in some interesting reminiscences of Lincoln, prepared
for this Life and hitherto unpublished: "Before I had ever seen Abraham Lincoln I heard my
father, who served with him in the legislature of 1838-39 and of 1840-41, relate an incident
in Mr. Lincoln's life which illustrates his character for integrity and his firmness in maintaining
what he regarded as right in his public acts, in a marked manner.

"I do not remember whether this incident occurred during the session of the legislature in
1836-37 or 1838-39. But I think it was in that of 1836-37, when it was said that there was
a great deal of log-rolling going on among the members. But, however that may be, according
to the story related by my father, an effort was made to unite the friends of capital removal
with the friends of some measure which Mr. Lincoln, for some reason, did not approve. What
that measure was to which he objected, I am not now able to recall. But those who desired the
removal of the capital to Springfield were very anxious to effect the proposed combination,
and a meeting was held to see if it could be accomplished. The meeting continued in session
nearly all night, when it adjourned without accomplishing anything, Mr. Lincoln refusing to
yield his objections and to support the obnoxious measure."

"Another meeting was called, and at this second meeting a number of citizens, not members of
the legislature, from the central and northern parts of the State, among them my father, were
present by invitation. The meeting was long protracted, and earnest in its deliberations. Every
argument that could be thought of was used to induce Mr. Lincoln to yield his objections and
unite with his friends, and thus secure the removal of the capital to his own city; but without
effect. Finally, after midnight, when everybody seemed exhausted with the discussion, and when
the candles were burning low in the room, Mr. Lincoln rose amid the silence and solemnity which
prevailed, and, my father said, made one of the most eloquent and powerful speeches to which
he had ever listened. And he concluded his remarks by saying, 'You may burn my body to ashes,
and scatter them to the winds of heaven; you may drag my soul down to the regions of darkness
and despair to be tormented forever; but you will never get me to support a measure which I
believe to be wrong, although by doing so I may accomplish that which I believe to be right.'
And the meeting adjourned."

If Lincoln did not support measures which he considered doubtful, he did, now and then, "tack
a provision" on a bill to please a friend, as the following letter, hitherto unpublished, shows:[3]

    "SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, August 5, 1837.

    "JOHN BENNETT, ESQ.

As was to be expected, the Democrats charged that the Whigs of Sangamon had won their victory
by "bargain and corruption." These charges became so serious that, in an extra session called
in the summer of 1837, a few months after the bill passed, Lincoln had a bitter fight over
them with General L.D. Ewing, who wanted to keep Vandalia as the capital.

Lincoln answered in a speech of such severity and keenness that the House believed he was "digging
his own grave;" for Ewing was a high-spirited man who would not hesitate to answer by a challenge.
It was, in fact, only the interference of their friends which prevented a duel at this time
between Ewing and Lincoln. This speech, to many of Lincoln's colleagues, was a revelation of
his ability and character.

A few months later the "Long Nine" were again attacked, Lincoln specially being abused. The
assailant this time was a prominent Democrat, Mr. J.B. Thomas. When he had ended, Lincoln replied
in a speech which was long known in local political circles as the "skinning of Thomas."

LINCOLN'S FIRST REPORTED SPEECH.

No one doubted after this that Lincoln could defend himself. He became doubly respected as
an opponent, for his reputation for good-humored raillery had been established in his campaigns.
In a speech made in January he gave another evidence of his skill in the use of ridicule. A
resolution had been offered by Mr. Linder to institute an inquiry into the management of the
affairs of the State bank. Lincoln's remarks on the resolution form his first reported speech.
This speech has been unnoticed by his biographers hitherto; and it appears in none of the editions
of his speeches and letters. It was discovered in the "Sangamo Journal" for January 28, 1837,
by Mr. J. McCan Davis, in the course of a search through the files instituted by this Magazine.

Lincoln began these remarks by good-humored but nettling chaffing of his opponent.

The resolution had declared that the bank practised various methods which were "to the great
injury of the people." Lincoln took the occasion to announce his ideas of the people and the
politicians.

The speech was published in full in the "Sangamo Journal" and the editor commented:

    "Mr. Lincoln's remarks on Mr. Linder's bank resolution in
    the paper are quite to the point. Our friend carries the true
    Kentucky rifle, and when he fires he seldom fails of sending
    the shot home."

ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S FIRST PROTEST AGAINST SLAVERY.

One other act of his in this session cannot be ignored. It is a sinister note in the hopeful
chorus of the Tenth Assembly. For months there had come from the Southern States violent protests
against the growth of abolition agitation in the North. Garrison's paper, the "infernal Liberator,"
as it was called in the pro-slavery part of the country, had been gradually extending its circulation
and its influence; and it already had imitators even on the banks of the Mississippi. The American
Anti-slavery Society was now over three years old. A deep, unconquerable conviction of the
iniquity of slavery was spreading through the North. The South felt it and protested, and the
statesmen of the North joined them in their protest. Slavery could not be crushed, said the
conservatives. It was sanctioned by the Constitution. The South must be supported in its claims,
and agitation stopped. But the agitation went on, and riots, violence, and hatred pursued the
agitators. In Illinois, in this very year, 1837, we have a printing-office raided and an anti-slavery
editor, Elijah Lovejoy, killed by the citizens of Alton, who were determined that it should
not be said among them that slavery was an iniquity.

To silence the storm, mass-meetings of citizens, the United States Congress, the State legislatures,
took up the question and voted, again and again, resolutions assuring the South that the Abolitionists
were not supported; that the country recognized their right to their "peculiar institution,"
and that in no case should they be interfered with. At Springfield, this same year (1837) the
citizens convened and passed a resolution declaring that "the efforts of Abolitionists in this
community are neither necessary nor useful." When the riot occurred in Alton, the Springfield
papers uttered no word of condemnation, giving the affair only a laconic mention.

    "That the Governor be requested to transmit to the States of
    Virginia, Alabama, Mississippi, New York, and Connecticut a
    copy of the foregoing report and resolutions."

Lincoln refused to vote for these resolutions. In his judgment no expression on the slavery
question should go unaccompanied by the statement that it was an evil, and he had the boldness
to protest immediately against the action of the House. He found only one man in the Assembly
willing to join him in his action.

SOCIAL LIFE IN VANDALIA IN 1836 AND 1837.

The Tenth Assembly was important to Lincoln not only in its legislation; it greatly increased
his circle of acquaintances. The character of the work of the session called to Vandalia numbers
of persons of influence from almost every county in the State. They were invariably there to
secure something for their town or county, and naturally made a point of getting acquainted.
Game suppers seem to have been the means usually employed by visitors for bringing people together.
The lobbyists were not the only ones in Vandalia who gave suppers, however. Not a bill was
passed nor an election decided that a banquet did not follow. Mr. John Bryant, the brother
of William Cullen, was in Vandalia that winter in the interest of his county, and he attended
one of these banquets, given by the successful candidate for the United States Senate. Lincoln
was present, of course, and so were all the prominent politicians of the State.

"After the company had gotten pretty noisy and mellow from their imbibitions of Yellow Seal
and 'corn juice,'" says Mr. Bryant, "Mr. Douglas and General Shields, to the consternation
of the host and intense merriment of the guests, climbed up on the table, at one end, encircled
each other's waists, and to the tune of a rollicking song, pirouetted down the whole length
of the table, shouting, singing, and kicking dishes, glasses, and everything right and left,
helter skelter. For this night of entertainment to his constituents, the successful candidate
was presented with a bill, in the morning, for supper, wines, liquors, and damages, which amounted
to six hundred dollars."

But boisterous suppers were not by any means the important feature of Lincoln's social life
that winter in Vandalia. There was another and quieter side in which he showed his rare companionableness
and endeared himself to many people. In the midst of the log-rolling and jubilations of the
session he would often slip away to some acquaintance's room and spend hours in talk and stories.
Mr. John Bryant tells of his coming frequently to his room at the hotel, and sitting "with
his knees up to his chin, telling his inimitable stories and his triumphs in the House in circumventing
the Democrats."

Major Newton Walker, of Lewiston, was in Vandalia at the time; and still talks with pleasure
not only of the Assembly's energetic legislation, but of the way Lincoln endeared himself to
him and to his colleague. "We both loved him," says Major Walker, "but I little thought then
that he would become the greatest man that this country ever produced, or perhaps ever will.
Many a night I have sat up listening to Lincoln's wonderful stories. That was a long time ago--nearly
sixty years. I shall be ninety-two years old in a few days. I was six years older than Lincoln."

"I used to play the fiddle a great deal, and have played for Lincoln a number of times. He
used to come over to where I was boarding and ask me to play the fiddle for him; and I would
take it with me when I went over to visit him, and when he grew weary of telling stories he
would ask me to give him a tune, which I never refused to do."

LINCOLN MOVES TO SPRINGFIELD.

As soon as the Assembly closed, Lincoln returned to New Salem; but it was not to stay. He had
determined to go to Springfield. Major John Stuart, the friend who had advised him to study
law and who had lent him books and with whom he had been associated closely in politics, had
offered to take him as a partner. It was a good opening, for Stuart was one of the leading
lawyers and politicians of the State, and his influence would place Lincoln at once in command
of more or less business. From every point of view the change seems to have been wise; yet
Lincoln made it with foreboding.

To practise law he must abandon his business as surveyor, which was bringing him a fair income;
he must for a time, at least, go without any certain income. If he failed, what then? The uncertainty
weighed on him heavily, the more so because he was burdened by the debts left from his store
and because he was constantly called upon to aid his father's family. Thomas Lincoln had remained
in Coles County, but he had not, in these six years in which his son had risen so rapidly,
been able to get anything more than a poor livelihood from his farm. The sense of responsibility
Lincoln had towards his father's family made it the more difficult for him to undertake a new
profession. His decision was made, however, and as soon as the session of the Tenth Assembly
was over he started for Springfield. His first appearance there is as pathetic as amusing.

Another friend, William Butler, with whom Lincoln had become intimate at Vandalia, took him
to board; life at Springfield thus began under as favorable auspices as he could hope for.

After Chicago, Springfield was at that day the most promising city in Illinois. It had some
fifteen hundred inhabitants, and the removal of the capital was certain to bring many more.
Already, in fact, the town felt the effect. Houses and blocks were started; lawyers, politicians,
tradesmen, laborers, were pouring in. Hitherto most of the dwellings had been of log or frame;
now, however, there was an increase in brick buildings.

The effect was apparent too, in society. "We used to eat all together," said an old man who
in the early thirties came to Springfield as a hostler; "but about this time some one came
along and told the people they oughtn't to do so, and then the hired folks ate in the kitchen."
This differentiation was apparent to Lincoln and a little discouraging. He was thinking vaguely,
at the time of this removal to Springfield, that perhaps he best marry a Miss Mary Owens, with
whom he had become intimately acquainted in 1836 in New Salem; but Springfield society, and
the impossibility of his supporting a wife in it, discouraged him.

    "I am often thinking of what we said about your coming to live
    at Springfield," he wrote her in May.

Miss Owens had enough discernment to recognize the disinterestedness of this love-making, and
she refused Mr. Lincoln's offer. She found him "deficient in those little links which make
up the chain of a woman's happiness," she said. The affair seems to have been a rather vigorous
flirtation on her part, which had interested and perhaps flattered Mr. Lincoln. In the sincerity
of his nature he feared he had awakened a genuine attachment, and his notions of honor compelled
him to find out.

LINCOLN'S POSITION IN SPRINGFIELD.

It was not long before Lincoln became a favorite figure in Springfield. The skill, the courage,
and the good-will he had shown in his management of the bill for the removal of the capital
gave him at once, of course, special prominence. The entire "Long Nine," indeed, were regarded
by the county as its benefactors, and throughout the summer there were barbecues and fireworks,
dinners and speeches in their honor. "The service rendered Old Sangamon by the present delegation"
was a continually recurring toast at every gathering. At one "sumptuous dinner" the internal
improvement scheme in all its phases was toasted again and again by the banqueters, "'The Long
Nine' of Old Sangamon--well done, good and faithful servants," drew forth long applause. Among
those who offered volunteer toasts at this dinner were "A. Lincoln, Esq.," and "S.A. Douglas, Esq."

At a dinner at Athens, given to the delegation, eight formal toasts and twenty-five volunteers
are quoted in the report of the affair in the "Sangamo Journal." Among them were the following:

    A. Lincoln. He has fulfilled the expectations of his friends
    and disappointed the hopes of his enemies.

    A. Lincoln. One of nature's noblemen.

    By A. Lincoln. Sangamon County will ever be true to her best
    interests, and never more so than in reciprocating the good
    feelings of the citizens of Athens and neighborhood.

Lincoln had not been long in Springfield before he soon was able to support himself, a result
due, no doubt, very largely to his personal qualities and to his reputation as a shrewd politician.
Not that he made money. The fee-book of Lincoln and Stuart shows that the returns were modest
enough, and that sometimes they even "traded out" their account. Nevertheless it was a satisfaction
to earn a livelihood so soon. Of his peculiar methods as a lawyer at this date we know very
little. Most of his cases are utterly uninteresting. The very first year he was in Springfield,
however, he had one case which created a great sensation, and which, so far as we know, has
been overlooked entirely by his biographers. It is an admirable example of the way Lincoln
could combine business and politics as well as of his merciless persistency in pursuing a man
whom he believed unjust.

It seems that among the offices to be filled at the August election of 1837 was that of probate
justice of the peace. One of the candidates was General James Adams, a man who had come on
from the East in the early twenties, and who had at first claimed to be a lawyer. He had been
an aspirant for various offices, among them that of governor of the State, but with little
success. A few days before the August election of 1837 an anonymous hand-bill was scattered
about the streets. It was an attack on General Adams, charging him with having acquired the
title to a ten-acre lot of ground near the town by the deliberate forgery of the name of Joseph
Anderson, of Fulton County, Illinois, to an assignment of a judgment. Anderson had died, and
the widow, upon going to Springfield to dispose of the land, was surprised to find that it
was claimed by General Adams, and she employed Stuart and Lincoln to look into the matter.

After the election, at which General Adams had been elected, the hand-bill was reproduced in
the "Sangamo Journal," with a card signed by the editor, in which he said: "To save any further
remarks on this subject, I now state that A. Lincoln, Esq., is the author of the hand-bill
in question." The same issue of the paper contained a lengthy communication from General Adams,
denying the charge of fraud.

The controversy was continued for several weeks. General Adams used, mostly, the columns of
the "Springfield Republican," filling six columns of a single issue. He charged that the assault
upon him was the result of a conspiracy between "a knot of lawyers, doctors, and others," who
wished to ruin his reputation. Lincoln's answers to Adams are most emphatic. In one case, quoting
several of his assertions, he pronounced them "all as false as hell, as all this community
must know." Adams's replies were always voluminous. "Such is the turn which things have lately
taken," wrote Lincoln, "that when General Adams writes a book I am expected to write a commentary
on it." Lincoln concluded: "Farewell, General. I will see you again at court, if not before--when
and where we will settle the question whether you or the widow shall have the land." The widow
did get the land, but this was not the worst thing that happened to Adams. The climax was reached
when the "Sangamo Journal" published a long editorial (written by Lincoln, no doubt) on the
controversy, and followed it with a copy of an indictment found against Adams in Oswego County,
New York, in 1818. The offence charged in this indictment was the forgery of a deed by Adams--"a
person of evil name and fame and of a wicked disposition."

Lincoln's victory in this controversy undoubtedly did much to impress the community, not necessarily
that he was a good lawyer, but rather that he was a clever strategist and a fearless enemy.
It was not, in fact, as a lawyer that he was prominent in the first years after he came to
Springfield. Reëlected to the Assembly in 1838, and again in 1840, his real impress on the
community was made as a politician. The qualities which he had already shown in public life
were only strengthened as he gained experience and self-confidence. He was the terror of the
pretentious and insincere, and had a way of exposing their shams by clever tricks which, to
voters, were unanswerable arguments. A case in point happened in 1840. It was considered necessary,
at that day, by a candidate to prove to the farmers that he was poor and, like themselves,
horny-handed. Those politicians who wore good clothes and dined sumptuously were careful to
conceal their regard for the elegancies of life from their constituents. One of the Democrats
who in this campaign took particular pains to decry the Whigs for their wealth and aristocratic
principles was Colonel Dick Taylor, generally known in Illinois as "ruffled-shirt Taylor."
He was a vain and handsome man, who habitually arrayed himself as gorgeously as the fashion
allowed. One day when he and Lincoln had met in debate at a countryside gathering, Colonel
Dick became particularly bitter in his condemnation of Whig elegance. Lincoln listened for
a time, and then, slipping near the speaker, suddenly caught his coat, which was buttoned up
close, and tore it open. A mass of ruffled shirt, a gorgeous velvet vest, and a great gold
chain from which dangled numerous rings and seals, were uncovered to the crowd. Lincoln needed
to make no further reply that day to the charge of being a "rag baron."

Lincoln loved fair play as he hated shams; and throughout these early years in Springfield
are examples of his boldness in insisting that friend and enemy have the chance due them. A
most dramatic case of this kind occurred at a political meeting held one evening in the Springfield
court-room, which at that date was temporarily in a hall under Stuart and Lincoln's law office.
Directly over the platform was a trap-door. Lincoln frequently would lie by this opening during
a meeting, listening to the speeches. One evening one of his friends, E.D. Baker, in speaking
angered the crowd, and an attempt was made to "pull him down." Before the assailants could
reach the platform, however, a pair of long legs dangled from the trap-door, and in an instant
Lincoln dropped down beside Baker, crying out, "Hold on, gentlemen, this is a land of free
speech." His appearance was so unexpected, and his attitude so determined, that the crowd soon
was quiet, and Baker went on with his speech.

In all the intellectual life of the town he took a place. With a few of the leading young men
he formed a young men's lyceum. One of his speeches before this body has been preserved in
full. Its subject is "The Perpetuation of our Political Institutions."[4] The speech has not,
however, any of the peculiarly original style which usually characterized his efforts.

He came immediately to be a favorite figure in all sorts of local affairs. What he said and
did on these occasions is still recollected by those interested in them. "When the seat of
government was removed from Vandalia to Springfield in 1836," says the Rev. Peter Wallace of
Chicago "I obtained the contract of taking down the court-house to make a place for the State
House. Lincoln, with others, was present to receive the job. 'Peter,' he said to me, 'if you
succeed as well in building houses as you have in tearing this one down, you will make your
mark as a builder.'" Mr. Wallace tells, too, of hearing Lincoln say in a speech, at the funeral
of one of their friends: "I read in a book whose author never errs, 'Woe unto you when all
men shall speak well of you.' Our friend will escape that woe, for he would be the exception
had he no enemies."

The most pleasing feature of his early life in the town was the way in which he attached all
classes of people to him. He naturally, from his political importance and from his relation
to Mr. Stuart, was admitted to the most exclusive circle of society. But Lincoln was not received
there from tolerance of his position only. The few members left of that interesting circle
of Springfield in the thirties are emphatic in their statements that he was recognized as a
valuable social factor. If indifferent to forms and little accustomed to conventional usages,
he had a native dignity and self-respect which stamped him at once as a superior man. He had
a good will, an easy adaptability to people, which made him take a hand in everything that
went on. His name appears in every list of banqueters and merry-makers reported in the Springfield
papers. He even served as committee-man for cotillion parties. "We liked Lincoln, though he
was not gay," said one charming and cultivated old lady to me in Springfield. "He rarely danced,
he was never very attentive to ladies, but he was always a welcome guest everywhere, and the
centre of a circle of animated talkers. Indeed, I think the only thing we girls had against
Lincoln was that he always attracted all the men around him."

Lincoln's kindly interest and perfectly democratic feeling attached to him many people whom
he never met save on the streets. Indeed his life in the streets of Springfield is a most touching
and delightful study. He concerned himself in the progress of every building which was put
up, of every new street which was opened; he passed nobody without recognition; he seemed always
to have time to stop and talk. He became, in fact, part of Springfield street life, just as
he had of the town's politics and society. By 1840 there was no man in the town better known,
better liked, more sought for; though there were more than one whose future was considered
brighter.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Footnote 1: Reminiscences of Mr. Weir, a former resident of Sangamon County, related by E.B.
Howell of Butte, Montana.]

[Footnote 2: Summary condensed from Moses's "History of Illinois."]

[Footnote 3: The original of this letter is owned by E.R. Oeltjen of Petersburg, Illinois.]

[Footnote 4: Lincoln's address on "The Perpetuation of Our Political Institutions" is dated
January 27, 1837, in most biographies, but it was published in the "Sangamo Journal" of February
3, 1838. The address is preceded by the following resolution:

    "YOUNG MEN'S LYCEUM,
    SPRINGFIELD, January 27, 1837[8].

    "Resolved, That the thanks of this Lyceum be presented to A.
    Lincoln, Esq., for the lecture delivered by him this evening,
    and that he be solicited to furnish a copy for publication.

    "JAS. H. MATHENY, Secretary"

The confusion as to the date of the delivery of this address evidently arises from the fact
that the resolution here quoted bears the date of "1837"--a mere slip of the pen, of course.
In January, 1837, Lincoln was in the legislature at Vandalia. He had not yet become a resident
of Springfield. According to Mr. Herndon, who was a member of the Young Men's Lyceum, that
society was not formed until the fall of 1837.]

THE SHIP THAT FOUND HERSELF. In the "Dimbula" there were four stringers on each side--one far
down by the bottom of the hold, called the bilge stringer; one a little higher up, called the
side stringer; one on the floor of the lower deck; and the upper-deck stringers that have been
heard from already.

"That's all there is to it," seethed the broken water, roaring through the scuppers. "There's
no animus in our proceedings. We're a meteorological corollary." Grrraaaaah! Drrrraaaa! Drrrrrp!
Theoreti--retti--retti--cally, of course, rigidity is the thing.

"It's vara good," said the chief engineer, looking along the dishevelled decks. "Now, a man
judging superficially would say we were a wreck, but we know otherwise--by experience."

A CENTURY OF PAINTING.

NOTES DESCRIPTIVE AND CRITICAL.--GOYA AND HIS CAREER.--FOUR ENGLISH PAINTERS OF FAMILIAR LIFE.--GÉRICAULT,
INGRES, AND DELACROIX.

BY WILL H. LOW.

Looking backward to the first quarter of this century, it is hardly too sweeping an assertion
to say that, with a single exception, there was little that was important in the way of painting
outside of France and England. There were local reputations in all the other countries, practitioners
of the art who joined to a respectable proficiency in painting an adhesion to the traditions
which had been handed down to them. These men, in their time and place, were notable; and in
the museums of their respective countries their works remain of chronological interest to students
of painting. But to the larger public which these papers address, they are of little importance,
having exercised but slight influence on contemporaneous art.

The exception already noted was in Spain, and there only in the case of a single painter. Francisco
Goya y Lucientes, "Pintor Español," as he delighted to call himself, would be, indeed has been,
a fascinating subject for picturesque biography. Charles Yriarte, the well-known French art
critic, has given the world a most interesting and complete story of Goya's life, which, though
it is only separated from our own day by a span of seventy years, chronicles the exploits of
one who in the history of art must hark back to Benvenuto Cellini in the sixteenth century
to find his parallel.

Goya was born March 31, 1746, at Fuente de Todos, in the province of Aragon. The son of a small
farmer, he was placed when very young in the local Academy of Fine Arts at Saragossa, where
he received instruction from Bayen and Luzan, painters little known outside of Spain. The swashbuckler
instincts which were to govern him through life manifested themselves here, where in a street
brawl he laid low three of his adversaries. He found it prudent to evade both justice and the
vengeance which followed swift and sure in those days in Spain, by flying to Madrid. Soon after
his arrival in the capital, however, in continuation of his old mode of life, he was picked
up for dead in one of the low quarters of the town. Surviving the poignard, but again threatened
with arrest, he joined a quadrilla of bull-fighters, in whose company he went from town to
town, giving exhibitions of his prowess in the national sport.

With all this, painting must have been somewhat of an interlude; but Goya had early shown signs
of great talent, and before he left Saragossa, his master, Josepha Bayen, had confidence enough
in his future to entrust the happiness of his daughter to his care by permitting his marriage
to her. Goya's biographer notes that through all the various adventures of his career he had
the utmost care for the material comfort of this lady. Her character must impress us to-day
as charitable to excess; for, shortly after the bull-fighting episode, Goya found himself in
Rome, where his next exploit was the abduction, from a convent, of a noble Roman girl. With
the police once more on his track, he sought refuge at the Spanish Embassy, whence he was despatched
home in disguise, probably to the relief of his country's representative in Rome. Before this
adventure, which was only one of many which the charitable wife had to pardon, he had attracted
the attention of David, who was then in Italy, and who, as his art differed in every way from
that of Goya, must have been strongly impressed by his work to give it his approval.

On arriving home Goya was given employment in designing a series of tapestries for the royal
palace; and from 1780, when he was made a member of the Spanish Royal Academy, ensues the period
of his greatest artistic activity. Carrying into his art the same excess of temperament which
marked his life, his execution was rapid and decisive. Rebellious to the ordinary means employed
by painters, he used various mediums, some of which have ill withstood the ravages of time;
and, disdaining brushes, he often employed sponges or bits of rag in their place. In the case
of one of his pictures, a revolt of the Madrilenians against the French, it is said that he
employed a spoon.

In 1799 Goya was made painter to the king, Charles III., whose successor, the fourth of his
name, continued his favor. The time, which was that of the notorious "Prince of Peace," Godoy,
was favorable for a character like that of Goya, whose eccentricities were looked upon with
an indulgent eye by a court which must have felt that its function was hardly that of moral
censor. At least Goya, the intimate of Maria Louisa and the court circle, by no means abandoned
his friends the bull-fighters and tavern-keepers. Fresh from an altar-piece for a cathedral,
or a royal portrait, his ready brush found employment in rapidly painting a street scene, or
even a sign for a wine-shop. A whitewashed wall for canvas and mud from the gutter for pigment,
were the means employed to embody a patriotic theme at the entrance of the French soldiers
into Madrid--a popular masterpiece executed to the plaudits of the crowd.

All this would seem to denote a charlatan; yet withal, Goya has fairly won his place amid the
great painters of the world. Perhaps no better example could be found of the essential difference
between the outward and visible actions of a man and the inward and spiritual grace of an artist
than in this instance; and the Latin standpoint, always more intellectually liberal than our
own Anglo-Saxon appreciation of the same problem furnishes the reason why Goya was left free
to pursue his artistic career instead of languishing in prison. His illogical brush filled
the cathedrals of Saragossa, Seville, Toledo, and Valencia with masterly frescoes, while with
the etching needle he produced many plates. Some of these, like the "Caprices," a series of
eighty etchings, are filled with imagination alternately tragical and grotesque; while another
series, representing bull-fights, throughout its thirty-three plates depicts the incidents
of the game with intense realism. The "Disasters of War," another series of eighty, were inspired
by the French invasion; and never, perhaps, were the cruelties of war more strenuously realized
in art than in these. Probably these etchings, executed, like all his works, by methods peculiar
to himself, constitute his best title to remembrance. But his painting, replete though it be
with the defects of his qualities, stands as a precursor of the great coloristic school of
which Delacroix was the head and front. This is notably to be felt in his portraits, and in
some of the rapidly executed single figures of which the Louvre has a specimen and the Metropolitan
Museum, New York, another--the latter, "A Jewess of Tangiers."

Before leaving Goya for men whose works are their only history, a characteristic incident,
which caused his flight from Spain to Bordeaux in France, must be told. In 1814 Wellington
was in Madrid and sat for his portrait to Goya. After the first sitting, the soldier presumed
to criticise the work; whereat Goya, seizing a cutlass, attacked him, causing the future hero
of Waterloo to flee for his life from the maniacal fury of the painter. It is said that, later,
peace was made between the two men, and that the portrait was achieved; but for the moment
Goya found safety in France, together with his long-suffering wife, who had incidentally borne
him twenty children. At the green old age of eighty-two Goya died at Bordeaux, April 16, 1828.

No greater contrast could be devised than the four works which follow, either in the character
of the art or in the uneventful respectability of the painters' lives. They are all typical
of a class of pictures which has been popular in England, from the time of Hogarth to the present
day. The earliest of them is the "Blind Fiddler" of Sir David Wilkie, which was exhibited at
the Royal Academy in 1807. The dates at which the others, by Mulready, Webster, and Leslie,
were painted would preclude their appearance here, if strict chronological sequence were imposed,
as they were painted about 1840. It is instructive, however, to group them together, to show
that these artists and their followers, who were legion, thought at least as much of subject
as of method. Not that the latter quality is lacking. On the contrary, it is only too evident;
but it is a method of convention. No one would imagine for a moment, in looking at any one
of these pictures, that he was admitted an unseen spectator to some scene of intimate family
life. It is this quality which the great Dutchmen in all their scenes of familiar life preserved;
and when we look at a Pieter de Hooge, for instance, there is no suspicion that the homely
scene has been arranged for our delectation. In its transplantation from Holland, however,
English art lost just this quality.

David Wilkie, born in Scotland, at Cults in Fifeshire, November 18, 1785, came to London in
1805 to enter the Royal Academy schools, after some preliminary training at Edinburgh. His
first picture, in the exhibition of 1806, "The Village Politicians," attracted attention, and
was followed the next year by "The Blind Fiddler." The work of a youth of twenty-two, it is
remarkable for its close observation of character and the skilful use made of what may be termed
the theatrical faculty of grouping the personages so that their action tells the story. This
is not a merit, and there is little doubt that the scene would be greater as art were it more
consistently human. Character is well and pictorially rendered; but by its insistence in every
figure, we feel that it is but a moment since the curtain was withdrawn and the tableau vivant
shown. This and the pictures following it met with the most unbounded popular approval, were
reproduced by engraving, and exercised an influence increased by the honors and fortune which
were showered on the painter.

In 1825 Wilkie made an extended continental tour, and three years later, after his return to
England, changed his class of subjects for historical and portrait painting, bringing to these
later themes the same ability and the same lack of naïveté which characterized his former work.
A Royal Academician since 1811, he was appointed first painter in ordinary to the king, on
the death of Lawrence, in 1830. He was knighted in 1836, and died at sea on June 1, 1841, while
returning from Egypt.

William Mulready was of Irish birth, having come into the world at Ennis, in the County Clare,
April 1, 1786. In 1809, after a period in the schools of the Royal Academy, he exhibited there
a picture entitled "Fair Time," which gave him almost instant success; and until his death,
July 7, 1863, though producing fewer pictures than Wilkie, he worked on very much the same
class of subjects. His color is less agreeable than that of the Scot, and his execution very
much more labored. His life was uneventful, occupied exclusively with his work, which he loved;
so much so that two days before his death, an old man of seventy-seven, he sat drawing in the
evening life class at the Royal Academy. He had been a member of the Academy since 1816. The
picture here reproduced is (even without the quotation from the "Vicar of Wakefield" which
accompanies it in the catalogue of the South Kensington Museum) a simple story simply told.
It is free from the mannerisms which mar much of Mulready's work, especially in the portrayal
of children, and in the original is more agreeable in color than are many of his pictures.

Thomas Webster, born March 20, 1800, in London, and dying at Cranbrook in Kent, September,
1886, was another painter whose work had enjoyed the full meed of popularity, from 1825 to
the time of his retirement from the Royal Academy in 1877. Pictures like the one here reproduced
(from the original in the South Kensington Museum, painted in 1843, and entitled "Contrary
Winds"), pictures depicting homely rustic life, were his specialty. His work had gained him
the title of Royal Academician in 1846.

Through all this time, and in the work of many painters unnoticed here, the qualities are evident
of an honest endeavor to paint the simple life of the country. With a higher standard of taste,
and better preliminary instruction, painting would have gained; and the defect with which British
art has been so often reproached, of being too literary, might have been lessened. Charles
Robert Leslie, whose works are almost uniformly inspired by literature, was born at Clerkenwell
in England, of American parents, October 19, 1794. He was taken to Philadelphia when five years
of age, but returned to England in 1811, to study at the Royal Academy. Washington Allston
and Benjamin West, both Americans--the latter at the time President of the Royal Academy--aided
Leslie by advice.

After a preliminary stage as a portrait painter, Leslie exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1819
a picture of "Sir Roger de Coverley Going to Church," the first of a long series of pictures
dependent on books for their subjects. In 1825 he painted "Sancho Panza and the Duchess," which
procured him his election as an Academician the following year. The picture here reproduced
is a repetition, with some slight changes, of the same subject, but was painted in 1844. Leslie
may be said to have originated this style of subject in England, where he has had many followers;
and, given the requisite knowledge of literature, his pictures tell their story with directness
and humor. In painting, his work is rather hard; but in grace and style of drawing he was much
superior to his contemporaries. Among his pictures are many suggested by Shakespeare, which
have been popularized by engraving.

Leslie returned to this country in 1833 to accept the professorship of drawing at the West
Point Military Academy, but remained only a few months. After returning to London, he enjoyed
a successful career until his death, May 5, 1859. He was one of the first and most consistent
admirers of Constable's work, and wrote his life. He also published lectures on painting, delivered
at the Royal Academy, where he had been appointed lecturer in 1848.

The consideration of the two men whose portraits face each other here, and who stood thus opposed,
during their lives, as the leaders of all that constituted art in their time and country, takes
us back to France. Frequent returns of this character will be necessary in the course of these
papers; for, without undue prejudice in favor of the French, it must be said that they alone
have through the century maintained a consistent attitude in regard to art. Other countries
have from time to time encouraged painting, with as frequent lapses of interest or lack of
men who could legitimately inspire interest. Although transplanted bodily from Italy to France,
in the time of Francis the First, art had taken so firm a root by the commencement of this
century that, as we have seen, it grew and flourished though watered by the red blood of revolution.
As a national institution, following the prescribed rules of the Academy, it has, of course,
met with frequent assaults at the hands of men for whom prescribed academic law was as naught
in comparison with the higher law of genius. In 1819 such a man appeared, with a picture which
violated the unwritten law formulated by David: "Look in your Plutarch and paint!"

Jean Louis André Théodore Géricault, born at Rouen, September 26, 1791, came to Paris in 1808,
and entered the studio of Guérin, where his method of painting displeased his master to such
a degree that he advised him to abandon the study of art. Guérin had thoroughly imbibed the
defects of the David method; and the spectacle of a youth who obstinately persisted in trying
to paint the model as he really appeared, instead of making a pink imitation of antique sculpture,
seemed to him to be of little promise.

Géricault, however, persisted; and with the exception of about a year, when the halo of military
glory seduced him from his work, he worked so well and earnestly that, after two years' sojourn
in Italy, he returned to Paris, a few weeks before the Salon of 1819, equipped with the knowledge
of a master.

Taking a canvas about fifteen feet high by twenty in length, using the green-room of a theatre
for a studio, he set to work. Disdaining the prevailing taste for mythology and classic themes,
he took from the journals of the time the moving recital of the sufferings of the crew of the
frigate "Medusa," abandoned on a raft in mid-ocean. Choosing the moment when the fifteen survivors
of the hundred and forty-nine men who had embarked on the raft sighted the sail in the offing
which meant their deliverance, he worked with an energy and fire which have remained remarkable
in the annals of art. Certain of the figures, all of which are more than life size, were painted
in a day, and when the Salon of 1819 opened, the picture was finished.

Seen as it is to-day in the Louvre, blackened by time and the neglect from which it suffered
for six or seven years before it was placed there, it remains one of the capital pages in the
history of modern art. The effect on the younger generation who saw it fresh from the hand
of the master, accustomed as they were to the lifeless effigies of the classic school, was
puzzling, and none but the most revolutionary dared approve of it. With the older painters
there was a similar distrust of the impression which it caused. Yet David--an artistic kernel
encased in an academic husk--admired it; and so did a swarthy youth who was soon to make his
mark and who was a friend and former comrade of Géricault in the atelier Guérin--Eugène Delacroix.

Géricault received a recompense of the fourth class, and, disgusted with his lot, took the
immense canvas to London, where it was exhibited with success. During his sojourn in England
he executed a number of pictures in oil and water color, and many lithographs, which are to-day
eagerly sought by collectors. Returning to France full of projects for work, his health began
to give way, and on the 18th of January, 1824, he died. The influence which he exercised had,
however, borne its fruits. Already in the Salon of 1822 Ferdinand Victor Eugène Delacroix,
born at Charenton, near Paris, April 26, 1799, had shown his "Dante and Virgil."

Before considering Delacroix, however, it is best to return to the earlier years of the century,
and give J. Dominique Auguste Ingres, whose stern face confronts Delacroix's portrait, the
precedence to which his age entitles him.

"Monsieur" Ingres, as the iconoclastic leaders of the romantic school called him in mock deference,
was born at Montauban, August 29, 1780. His life was fortunate, and his history, which is chiefly
that of his works, can be told in few words. A pupil of David, he received the Prix de Rome
in 1801. He remained in Rome much longer than the allotted four years to which his prize entitled
him, and returned there often during his life as to the source of all art. By portraiture and
the constant patronage of the government, the material conditions of his life, which was of
a simple character, befitting a man who viewed his mission as that of an apostle preaching
the doctrine of pure classicism, were made easy; and the official titles of Member of the Institute,
Grand Officer of the Legion of Honor, and Senator of the Empire all came to him with the lapse
of years.

More royalist than the king, and the last of David's disciples, Ingres pursued throughout his
life the even tenor of a man convinced that the source of all inspiration in art was Greek
sculpture as amplified, transmuted, and translated to the realm of painting by Raphael. Painting
in his hands became almost purely a matter of form. The element of color was virtually ignored,
and form, chastened in contour and modelling, became through the magic of his genius the almost
sufficient quality. The qualification is necessary. For though too great a man to lose, as
too many of his master's pupils did, the grasp on nature; and while, therefore, his works,
seen as they are through the glamour of the antique, never lack an intimate relation to existing
life, it is impossible to resist the feeling before them that it is life beautified, of exquisite
yet virile choice, but of life arrested. The reproach of his opponents of the romantic school
that he was an "embalmer" has a foundation of truth.

For all this, it is hardly superlative to say that, since art began, no man has ever felt the
exquisite and subtle harmony of line to the same degree as Ingres. Naturally the best examples
of this, his greatest quality, are to be found in his rendering of the nude human form; and
from the "Oedipus and the Sphinx," of 1808, to "La Source," of 1856, both of which are now
in the Louvre, he returned again and again to its study, producing each time a masterpiece.
His portraits, again, are most masterly, occasionally rising through sheer force of rendering
each characteristic trait of his model (as in the portrait of M. Bertin, the editor of the
"Débats"), to the extreme exactitude of Holbein, coupled with an allure so thoroughly modern
that the whole epoch of Louis Philippe lives before us. In the slighter drawings of his earlier
years in Rome, one of which is reproduced here, only the most typical details are chosen, and
these are indicated with a delicacy of touch, a sureness of hand, that not only indicates the
master, but lends a distinctive charm of truthful delicacy of which none but Ingres has known
the secret. It is in such works that his influence will be felt the longest; for, as with his
master, the great pictures in which he exemplified his principles remain cold and uninteresting.
The "Homer Deified," reproduced here, was originally intended as a ceiling for the Louvre,
and from a decorative point of view would excite a pitying smile from Veronese or Tiepolo.
Taken bit by bit, as a beautiful exhibition of supreme knowledge, of the evasive quality of
style in drawing, it is, however, admirable, and as a whole it has the merits of grave, balanced
composition. It was the spirit of work like this which the master sought to force upon his
epoch, rather than that of his portraits or of pictures like the "Source;" and the austerity
of these principles met with more submission in the earlier years of the century than when
later Géricault had shown the path in which the audacious Delacroix threw himself at the head
of a band of romantic followers.

I have used the term audacious in speaking of Delacroix, and circumstances forced him to justify
the epithet. Yet to a student of his work, and still more of his character as revealed in his
writings (his recently published letters and the few articles published during his life in
the "Revue des Deux-Mondes"), he would appear to have been by nature prepared to receive the
full academic tradition, and only because of what appeared a violation of the tradition as
he understood it, to have arrayed himself in violent opposition: a situation which rendered
him in work and in life contradictory to his natural instinct. It is the old story of the defect
of system. Even the most cunningly devised cannot make a place for all the many manifestations
of temperamental activity. Like Géricault, a pupil of Guérin, Delacroix found in his master
and in the general spirit of the school an insistence on the letter of the classic law to which
his richly endowed nature could not bend, and was thus forced to rebel; whereas a more elastic
application of received principles would have found him an enthusiastic adherent. In this way
he missed acquiring the technical mastery over form, which proved a stumbling block to him
through life. At times his drawing is possessed of a vigor and life which even Ingres never
had; at others his work is almost lamentable in its lack of constructive form. In respect to
color in its finest, most harmonic qualities, he is the greatest of French painters; and at
all times he is master of an intense dramatic force. It was with a masterpiece--"Dante and
Virgil"--that he made his first appearance at the Salon in 1822. At a bound he found himself
famous. Guérin, who had counselled him against sending his picture to the Salon, grudgingly
acknowledged that he was wrong. Gros told him that it was like Rubens, with more correctness
of form--Rubens "chastened" was the word. The government bought the picture, paying the artist
two hundred and forty dollars--twelve hundred francs--for it.

The same year Delacroix submissively made his final attempt for the Prix de Rome, but came
out sixtieth in the competition. Thenceforward he was to be constantly before the public, constantly
opposed, misunderstood, criticised; but nevertheless, with all the energy which shows in his
portrait, constantly in the front. When his defenders had sufficient influence to force the
hand of the ministry of fine arts, he was commissioned to paint for the state; and to this
we owe the decorations in the gallery of Apollon in the Louvre, the decorations in the church
of St. Sulpice, and others. When he received the order for the entrance of the Crusaders to
Constantinople for the Gallery of Battles at Versailles, the good King Louis Philippe sent
him word to make it as little like his usual style as possible!

Among Delacroix's critics Ingres, with all the force of his convictions, was the foremost.
He to whom a sky had always served as a simple background was not created to understand the
almost purple canopy of azure stretching far above the heads of the Crusaders; nor to find
barbaric delight in the rich trappings of horses and men, since to him a drapery was simply
a textureless covering adjusted to accentuate the form beneath. Delacroix, whose intelligence
was of a higher order and who said of himself that he was "more rebellious than revolutionary,"
treated Ingres when they met on official occasions, as at the meetings of the Institute (where
finally Delacroix had penetrated), with a high and distant courtesy which his sturdy adversary,
strong in his pious devotion to classicism, hardly returned. Delacroix had by far the most
brilliant following, reinforced as it was by the landscape painters, who from 1830 onwards
gave to this century its most notable school of painting. Added to this was a fair measure
of appreciation on the part of collectors.

Delacroix's genius found expression in many small pictures, all of them characterized by a
gem-like coloration (which is more than mere color, however, for in it lies the secret of a
powerful and direct expression of sentiment) and by a vivid realization of movement. Proud
by nature, delicate in health, his life was far from happy; he never ceased to feel the sting
of adverse criticism. "For more than thirty years I have been given over to the wild beasts,"
he said once. He had warm friends, who have left many records of his sweetness of disposition
when the outer barrier of haughty reserve was broken through; but they were few in number.
He never married; painting, he said, was his only mistress, and his passion for his art is
felt through all his work. His death occurred at Champrosay near Paris, where he had a modest
country house, on August 13, 1863; and four years later, January 14, 1867, his great adversary,
Ingres, followed him.

CY AND I.

BY EUGENE FIELD.

  As I went moseyin' down th' street,
  My Denver friend I chanced t' meet.
      "Hello!" says I,
      "Where have you been so long a time
  That we have missed your soothin' rhyme?"
      "New York," says Cy.
      "Gee whiz!" says I.

  "You must have seen some wonders down
  In that historic, splendid town;"
      And then says I:
  "For bridges, parks, and crowded streets
  There is no other place that beats
      New York," says I.
      "Correct!" says Cy.

  "The town is mighty big, but then
  It isn't in it with its men,
      Is it?" says I.
  "And tell me, Cyrus, if you can,
  Who is its biggest, brainiest man?"
      "Dana!" says Cy.
      "You bet!" says I.

  "He's big of heart and big of brain,
  And he's been good unto us twain"--
      Choked up, says I.
  "I love him, and I pray God give
  Him many, many years to live!
      Eh, Cy?" says I.
      "Amen!" says Cy.

A YOUNG HERO

PERSONAL REMINISCENCES OF COLONEL E.E. ELLSWORTH.

BY JOHN HAY,

Author, with John G. Nicolay, of "Abraham Lincoln: a History."

It is in contemplating what the world loses in the deaths of brilliant young citizen soldiers
that we appreciate most fully the waste of war and the priceless value of the cause for which
such lives were sacrificed. When a man like Henri Regnault--the most substantial hope and promise
of art in our century--is seen at the siege of Paris lingering behind his retreating comrades,
"le temps de bruler une dernière cartouche" the last words he uttered; when a genius like Theodore
Winthrop is extinguished in its ardent dawn on an obscure skirmish field; when a patriot and
poet like Koerner dies in battle with his work hardly begun--we feel how inadequate are all
the millions of the treasury to rival such offerings. We shall have no correct idea what our
country is worth to us if we forget all the singing voices that were hushed, all the noble
hearts that stopped beating, all the fiery energies that were quenched, that we might be citizens
of the great and indivisible Republic of the Western world.

I believe that few men who fell in our civil conflict bore with them out of the world possibilities
of fame and usefulness so bright or so important as Colonel Ephraim Elmer Ellsworth, who was
killed at Alexandria, Virginia, on May 24, 1861--the first conspicuous victim of the war. The
world can never compute, can hardly even guess, what was lost in his untimely end. He was killed
by the first gun he ever heard fired in strife; and his friends, who believe him to have had
in him the making of a great soldier, have nothing to support their opinion but the impression
made upon them by his manly character, his winning and vigorous personality, and the extraordinary
ardor and zest with which his powerful mind turned towards military affairs in the midst of
circumstances of almost incredible difficulty and privation. He was one of the dearest of the
friends of my youth. I cannot hope to enable the readers of this paper to see him as I saw
him. No words can express the vivid brilliancy of his look and his speech, the swift and graceful
energy of his bearing. He was not a scholar, yet his words were like martial music; in stature
he was less than the medium size, yet his strength was extraordinary; he seemed made of tempered
steel. His entire aspect breathed high ambition and daring. His jet-black curls, his open candid
brow, his dark eyes, at once fiery and tender, his eagle profile, his mouth just shaded by
the youthful growth that hid none of its powerful and delicate lines--the whole face, which
seemed made for nothing less than the command of men, whether as general or as orator, comes
before me as I write, with a look of indignant appeal to the future for the chance of fame
which inexorable fate denied him. The appeal, of course, is in vain. Only a few men, now growing
old, knew what he was and what he might have been if life had been spared him for a year or
two. I will merely try to show in these few pages, mainly from his own words, how great a heart
was broken by the slugs of the assassin at the Marshall House.

He was born in the village of Mechanicsville, Saratoga County, New York, on April 23, 1837.
His parents were plain people, without culture or means; one cannot guess how this eaglet came
into so lowly a nest. He went out into the world at the first opportunity, to seek his fortune;
he turned his hand, like other American boys, to anything he could find to do. He lived a while
in New York, and finally drifted to Chicago, where we find him, in the spring of 1859, a clerk
and student in the law office of Mr. J.E. Cone. From his earliest boyhood he had a passionate
love of the army. He learned as a child the manual of arms; he picked up instinctively a knowledge
of the pistol and the rifle; he became, almost without instruction, a scientific fencer. But
he was now of age, and determined to be a lawyer, since, to all appearance, there was no chance
for him in the army. The way in which he pursued his legal studies he has set down in a diary
which he kept for a little while. He began it on his twenty-second birthday. "I do this," he
said, "because it seems pleasant to be able to look back upon our past lives and note the gradual
change in our sentiments and views of life; and because my life has been, and bids fair to
be, such a jumble of strange incidents that, should I become anybody or anything, this will
be useful as a means of showing how much suffering and temptation a man may undergo and still
keep clear of despair and vice."

He was neat, almost foppish, in his attire; not strictly fashionable, for he liked bright colors,
flowing cravats, and hats that suggested the hunter or ranger rather than the law clerk; yet
the pittance for which he worked was very small, and his poverty extreme. He therefore economized
upon his food. He lived for months together upon dry biscuits and water. Here is a touching
entry from his diary: "Had an opportunity to buy a desk to-day worth forty-five dollars, for
fourteen dollars. It was just such a one as I needed, and I could sell at any time for more
than was asked for it. I bought it at auction. I can now indulge my ideas of order in the arrangement
of my papers to their fullest extent. Paid five dollars of my own money and borrowed ten dollars
of James Clayburne; promised to return it next Tuesday. By the way, this was an instance in
a small way of the importance of little things. Some two years since, when I was so poor, I
went one day into an eating-house on an errand. While there, Clayburne and several friends came in.

"As I started to go out they stopped me and insisted upon my having an oyster stew. I refused,
for I always made it a practice never to accept even an apple from any one, because I could
not return like courtesies. While they were clamoring about the matter and I trying to get
from them, the waiter brought on the oysters for the whole party, having taken it for granted
that I was going to stay. So to escape making myself any more conspicuous by further refusal,
I sat down. How gloriously every morsel tasted--the first food I had touched for three days
and three nights. When I came to Chicago with a pocket full of money I sought James out and
told him I owed him half a dollar. He said no, but I insisted my memory was better than his,
and made him take it. Well, when I wanted ten dollars, I went to him, and he gave it to me
freely, and would take no security. Have written four hours this evening; two pounds of crackers;
sleep on office floor to-night."

The diary relates many incidents like this. He took a boyish pride in refusing offers of assistance,
in resisting temptation to innocent indulgence, in passing most of his hours in study, earning
only enough by his copying to keep body and soul together. One entry is, "Read one hundred
and fifty pages of Blackstone--slept on floor." Such a regimen was not long in having its effect
upon even his rugged health. He writes: "I tried to read, but could not. I am afraid my strength
will not hold out. I have contracted a cold by sleeping on the floor, which has settled in
my head, and nearly sets me crazy with catarrh. Then there is that gnawing, unsatisfied sensation
which I begin to feel again, which prevents any long-continued application." About this time
he was urged to take command of a company of cadets which, through mismanagement, had been
reduced to a deplorable condition. He at first declined, but afterward consented if the company
would accept certain rigorous conditions of discipline and obedience. He was as firm as granite
to his company, and cheery and gay to the world, while in his private life he was subjecting
himself to the cruel rigors described in his diary of April 21: "I am convinced that the course
of reading which I am pursuing is not sufficiently thorough. Have commenced again at beginning
of Blackstone. I now read a proposition or paragraph and reason upon it; try to get at the
principle involved, in my own language; view it in every light till I think I understand it;
then write it down in my commonplace book. My progress is, in consequence, very slow, as it
takes on an average half an hour to each page. Attended meeting of cadets' committee on ways
and means; all my propositions accepted. I spent my last ten cents for crackers to-day. Ten
pages of Blackstone."

The next day he writes: "My mind was so occupied with obtaining money due to-morrow that I
could not study. Five pages of Blackstone. Nothing whatever to eat. I am very tired and hungry
to-night. Onward."

In these circumstances of hunger and toil, he took charge of the company of cadets, which was
falling to pieces from neglect. There was no sign in his bearing of the poverty and famine
which were consuming him. He told them roundly that if they elected him their captain they
did so with their eyes open; that he should enforce the strictest discipline, and make their
company second to none in the United States. His laws were Draconic in their severity. He forbade
his cadets from entering a drinking or gambling saloon or any other disreputable place under
penalty of expulsion, publication of the offender's name in the city papers, and forfeiture
of uniform. He insisted on prompt obedience and unremitting drill. The company under his firm
and inspiring command rapidly pulled itself together, and attracted all at once the notice
and admiration of Chicago and northern Illinois. The young captain did not give up his law
studies. He wrote and affixed to his desk a card which contained his own daily orders: "So
aim to spend your time that at night, when looking back at the disposal of the day, you find
no time misspent, no hour, no moment even, which has not resulted in some benefit, no action
which had not a purpose in it. Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays: Rise at 5 o'clock; 5 to 10,
study; 10 to 1, copy; 1 to 4, business; 4 to 7, study; 7 to 8, exercise; 8 to 10, study. Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, and Fridays: Rise at 6; 6 to 10, study; 10 to 1, business; 1 to 7, study and copy;
7 to 11, drill."

Working faithfully as he did in the office, his whole heart was in his drill room. His fame
as a fencer went abroad in the town, and he was challenged to a bout by the principal teacher
of the art in Chicago. Ellsworth records the combat in his diary of May 24th: "This evening
the fencer of whom I have heard so much came up to the armory to fence with me. He said to
his pupils and several others that if I held to the low guard he would disarm me every time
I raised my foil. He is a great gymnast, and I fully expected to be beaten. The result was:
I disarmed him four times, hit him thirty times. He disarmed me once and hit me five times.
At the touche-à-touche I touched him in two places at the same allonge, and threw his foil
from him several feet. He was very angry, though he tried to conceal it."

Public interest constantly grew in the Zouaves and their young captain. Large crowds attended
every drill. The newspapers began to report all their proceedings, and to comment upon them
with more or less malevolence; for military companies were treated with scant respect in Western
towns before the war. Ellsworth at last determined to confront hostile opinion by giving a
public exhibition of the proficiency of his company on the Fourth of July. He was not without
trepidation. The night before the Fourth he wrote: "To-morrow will be an eventful day to me;
to-morrow I have to appear in a conspicuous position before thousands of citizens--an immense
number of whom, without knowing me except by sight, are prejudiced against me. To-morrow will
demonstrate the truth or falsity of my assertion that the citizens would encourage military
companies if they were worthy of respect." The result was an overwhelming success; and the
young soldier, after his feast of crackers the next night, wrote in exultation: "Victory! And
thank God!"

The Chicago "Tribune," which had previously been unfriendly to the little company who were
trying to make soldiers of themselves, gave a long and flattering account of the performance,
and said: "We but express the opinion of all who saw the drill yesterday morning, when we say
this company cannot be surpassed this side of West Point."

Encouraged by this public applause, he brought his company of Zouaves as near to absolute perfection
of drill as was possible; and then, having tested them in as many competitive contests as were
within reach, he challenged the militia companies of the United States, and set forth in the
summer of 1860 on a tour of the country which was one unbroken succession of triumphs. He defeated
the crack companies in all the principal Eastern cities, and went back to Chicago one of the
most talked-of men in the country. Hundreds of Zouave companies started up in his wake, and
a very considerable awakening of interest in military matters was the substantial result of
his journey.

On his return to Illinois he made the acquaintance of Abraham Lincoln, and gained at once his
friendship and esteem. He entered his office in Springfield ostensibly as a law student; but
Mr. Lincoln was then a candidate for the Presidency, and Ellsworth read very little law that
autumn. He made some Republican speeches in the country towns about Springfield, bright, witty,
and good-natured. But his mind was full of a project which he hoped to accomplish by the aid
of Mr. Lincoln--no less than the establishment in the War Department of a bureau of militia,
by which the entire militia system of the United States should be concentrated, systematized,
and made efficient: an enormous undertaking for a boy of twenty-three; but his plans were clear,
definite, and comprehensive.

After Mr. Lincoln's election Ellsworth accompanied him to Washington. As a preliminary step
towards placing him in charge of a bureau of militia, the President gave him a commission as
a lieutenant in the army. Shortly afterward he fell seriously ill with the measles; and before
he was thoroughly convalescent, the guns about Sumter opened the Civil War. There had been
much doubt in many minds as to the loyalty of the people in case of actual war. Ellsworth never
had doubted it. He said to me as I sat by his bedside: "You know I have a great work to do,
to which my life is pledged; I am the only earthly stay of my parents; there is a young woman
whose happiness I regard as dearer than my own; yet I could ask no better death than to fall
next week before Sumter. I am not better than other men. You will find that patriotism is not
dead, even if it sleeps." When the news came that South Carolina had begun the war, he did
not wait an instant. He threw up his commission in the regulars, took all the money we both
had, which was not much, and thus insufficiently equipped, started for New York, and raised,
with incredible celerity, the New York Zouaves, a regiment eleven hundred strong.

This unique organization filled so large a space in the public mind while Ellsworth commanded
it that it seems hard to realize that its history with him is only a matter of a few weeks.
He brought his regiment down to Washington early in May, arriving thin as a greyhound, his
voice hoarse with drilling; but flushed and happy to know he was busy and useful at last.

There was no limit to the hopes and the confidence of his friends. We had grown to admire and
respect him for his high and honorable character, his thorough knowledge of his business, ardent
zeal for the flag he followed, and his extraordinary courage and energy. We fully expected,
relying upon his splendid talents and the President's affectionate regard, that his first battle
would make him a brigadier-general, and that his second would give him a division. There was
no limit to the glory and usefulness we anticipated for him. How soon all these hopes were
dust and ashes!

On the evening of May 23d he received his orders to lead his regiment on the extreme left of
the Union lines in the advance into Virginia. The part assigned him was the occupation of Alexandria.
He worked almost all night in his tent, arranging the business of his regiment, and then wrote
a touching letter of farewell to his parents. Anticipating an engagement, he said: "It may
be my lot to be injured in some manner. Whatever may happen, cherish the consolation that I
was engaged in the performance of a sacred duty; and to-night, thinking over the probabilities
of the morrow and the occurrences of the past, I am perfectly content to accept whatever my
fortune may be, confident that He who noteth even the fall of a sparrow will have some purpose
even in the fate of one like me. My darling and ever-loved parents, good-by. God bless, protect,
and care for you." These loving and filial words were the last that came from his pen.

The Zouaves were embarked before dawn the next morning. The celerity and order with which Ellsworth
performed his work excited the admiration and surprise of Admiral Dahlgren, who commanded the
navy yard.

The town of Alexandria was occupied without resistance; and Ellsworth, with a squad of Zouaves,
hurried off to take possession of the telegraph office. On his way he caught sight of a Confederate
flag floating from the summit of the Marshall House. He had often seen, from the window of
the Executive Mansion in Washington, this self-same banner flaunting defiance; and the temptation
to tear it down with his own hands was too much for his boyish patriotism. Accompanied by four
soldiers only and several civilians, he ran into the hotel, up the stairs to the roof, and
tore down the flag; but coming down was met on the stairs by the hotel-keeper and shot dead.
His assassin perished at the same moment, killed by Frank E. Brownell.

Ellsworth was buried from the East Room of the White House by the special order of the President,
who mourned him as a son. Many brave and able officers were to perish in the four years that
followed that mournful day; but there was not one whose death was more sincerely lamented than
that of this young soldier who had never seen a battle; and it is the belief of his friends
that he had not his superior in natural capacity among all the most eminent heroes of the war.
But who will care to hear this said? If Napoleon Bonaparte had been killed at the siege of
Toulon, who would have listened to some grief-stricken comrade's assertion that this young
Corsican was the greatest soldier since Cæsar? I have written these lines merely to show how
simple, kindly, and heroic a heart Colonel Ellsworth had--and not to claim for him what can
never be proved.

CHAPTERS FROM A LIFE.

BY ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS,

Author of "The Gates Ajar," "The Madonna of the Tubs," etc.

ANDOVER GIRLS AS STUDENTS OF THEOLOGY.--THE DARK DAYS OF THE WAR.--WRITING MAGAZINE STORIES
AND SUNDAY-SCHOOL BOOKS.--THE DIFFICULTY AND UNCERTAINTY OF WRITING FOR A LIVING.

One study in our curriculum at the Andover School I have omitted to mention in its place; but,
of them all, it was the most characteristic, and would be most interesting to an outsider.
Where else but in Andover would a group of a dozen and a half girls be put to studying theology?
Yet this is precisely what we did. Not that we called our short hour with Professor Park on
Tuesday evenings by that long word; nor did he. It was understood that we had Bible lessons.

But the gist of the matter was, that we were taught Professor Park's theology.

We had our note-books, like the students in the chapel lecture-rooms, and we took docile notes
of the great man's views on the attributes of the Deity, on election and probation, on atonement
and sanctification, on eschatology, and the rest.

Girls' with pink ribbons at white throats, and girls with blue silk nets on their pretty hair,
fluttered in like bees and butterflies, and settled about the long dining-room table, at whose
end, with a shade over his eyes to shield them from the light, the professor sat in a dark corner.

Thence he promulgated stately doctrines to those soft and dreaming woman-creatures, who did
not care a maple-leaf whether we sinned in Adam, or whether the Trinity were separate as persons
or as attributes; but who drew little portraits of their dearest Academy boys on the margins
of their lecture-books, and passed these to their particular intimates in surreptitious interludes
between doctrines.

What must have been the professor's private speculations on those Tuesday evenings? I had a
certain sense of their probable nature, even then; and glanced furtively into the dark corner
for glimpses of the distant, sarcastic smile which I felt must be carving itself upon the lines
of his strong face. But I never caught him at it; not once. With the gravity befitting his
awful topics, and with the dignity belonging to his Chair and to his fame, the professor taught
the butterflies, to the best of my knowledge and belief, as conscientiously as he did those
black-coated beetles yonder, the theologues on the Seminary benches.

I ought to say, just here, that, in a recent correspondence with Professor Park upon this matter,
I found him more or less unconscious of having been so generous with his theology to the girls.
I am giving the pupil's impressions, not the teacher's recollections, of that Bible-class;
and I can give no other. Of course, I may be mistaken, and am liable to correction; but my
impressions are, that he gave us his system of theology pretty straight and very faithfully.

I cannot deny that I enjoyed those stern lessons. Not that I had any marked predilections towards
theology, but I liked the psychology of it. I experienced my first appreciation of the nature
and value of logic in that class-room, and it did me good, and not evil altogether. There I
learned to reason with more patience than a school-girl may always care to suffer; and there
I observed that the mysteries of time and eternity, whatever one might personally conclude
about them, were material of reason.

In many a mental upheaval of later life, the basis of that theological training has made itself
felt to me, as one feels rocks or stumps or solid things underfoot in the sickly swaying of
wet sands. I may not always believe all I was taught, but what I was taught has helped me to
what I believe. I certainly think of those theological lectures with unqualified gratitude.

The Tuesday evenings grow warm and warmer. The butterflies hover about in white muslins, and
pretty little bows of summer colors glisten on bright heads as they bend over the doctrines,
around the long table. On the screens of the open windows the June beetles knock their heads,
like theologues who wish they could get in. There is a moon without. Visions of possible forbidden
ecstasies of strolls under the arches of the Seminary elms with the bravest boy in the Academy
melt before the gentle minds, through which depravity, election, predestination, and justification
are filing sternly. The professor's voice arises:

"A sin is a wrong committed against God. God is an Infinite Being; therefore sin against Him
is an infinite wrong. An infinite wrong against an Infinite Being deserves an infinite punishment--"

Now, the professor says that he has no recollection of ever having said this in the Bible-class;
but there is the note-book of the girl's brain, stamped with the sentence for these thirty years!

"I have sometimes quoted it at the Seminary," he writes, "for the purpose of exposing the impropriety
of it. I do not think any professor ever quoted the statement, without adding that it is untenable.
The Andover argument was ----"[5] He adds the proper controversial language, which, it seems,
went solidly out of my head. Tenable or untenable, my memory has clutched the stately syllogism.

Sharp upon the doctrines there falls across the silence and the sweetness of the moonlit Hill
a strange and sudden sound. It is louder than theology. It is more solemn than the professor's
system. Insistent, urging everything before it--the toil of strenuous study, the fret of little
trouble, and the dreams of dawning love--the call stirs on. It is the beat of a drum.

The boys of old Phillips, with the down on their faces, and that eternal fire in their hearts
which has burned upon the youth of all the ages when their country has commanded: "Die for
me!" are drilling by moonlight.

The Academy Company is out in force, passing up and down the quiet, studious streets. The marching
of their feet beats solemnly at the meeting of the paths where (like the gardens of the professors)
the long walks of the Seminary lawns form the shape of a mighty cross.

"An infinite wrong deserves an infinite punishment--" The theologian's voice falls solemnly.
The girls turn their grave faces to the open windows. Silence helps the drum-beat, which lifts
its cry to Heaven unimpeded; and the awful questions which it asks, what system of theology
can answer?

       *       *       *       *       *

Andover was no more loyal, probably, than other New England villages; but perhaps the presence
of so many young men helped to make her seem so to those who passed the years from 1861 to
1865 upon the Hill.

Theology and church history and exegesis and sacred rhetoric retreated from the foreground
of that scholastic drama. The great Presence that is called War swept up and filled the scene.

Gray-haired men went to their lecture-rooms with bowed heads, the morning papers shaking in
their hands. The accuracy of the Hebrew verb did not matter so much as it did last term. The
homiletic uses or abuses of an applied text, the soundness of the new school doctrine of free
will, seemed less important to the universe than they were before the Flag went down on Sumter.
Young eyes looked up at their instructors mistily, for the dawn of utter sacrifice was in them.
He was only an Academy boy yesterday, or a theologue; unknown, unnoticed, saying his lesson
in Xenophon, taking his notes on the Nicene Creed; blamed a little, possibly, by his teacher
or by his professor, for inattention.

To-day he comes proudly to the desk. His step rings on the old, bare floors that he will never
tread again. "Sir, my father gives his permission. I enlist at once."

To-day he is a hero, and the hero's light is glorious on his face. To-day he is the teacher,
and the professor learns lessons in his turn now. The boy whom he has lectured and scolded
towers above him suddenly, a sacred thing to see. The old man stands uncovered before his pupil
as they clasp hands and part.

The drum calls on, and the boys drill bravely--no boys' parade this, but awful earnest now.
The ladies of Andover sew red braid upon blue flannel shirts, with which the Academy Company
make simple uniform.

Then comes a morning when the professors cannot read the papers for the news they bring; but
cover streaming eyes with trembling hands, and turn their faces. For the black day of the defeat
at Bull Run has darkened the summer sky.

Andover does not sew for the missionaries now. Her poor married theologues must wait a little
for their babies' dresses. Even the blue flannel shirts for the drill are forgotten. The chapel
is turned into sudden, awful uses, of which the "pious founders" in their comfortable graves
did never dream. For there the women of the Hill, staying for no prayer-meeting, and delaying
to sing no hymns, pick lint and roll bandages and pack supplies for the field; and there they
sacrifice and suffer, like women who knew no theology at all; and since it was not theirs to
offer life to the teeth of shot and shell, they "gave their happiness instead."

       *       *       *       *       *

The first thing which I wrote, marking in any sense the beginning of what authors are accustomed
to call their "literary career"--I dislike the phrase and wish we had a better--was a war story.

As nearly as I can recall the facts, up to this time I had shown no literary tendency whatever,
since the receipt of that check for two dollars and a half. Possibly the munificence of that
honorarium seemed to me to satiate mortal ambition for years. It is true that, during my schooldays,
I did perpetrate three full-grown novels in manuscript. My dearest particular intimate and
I shared in this exploit, and read our chapters to each other on Saturday afternoons.

I remember that the title of one of these "books" was "The Shadow of a Lifetime." It was a
double title with a heroine to it, but I forget the lady's name, or even the nature of her
particular shadow. The only thing that can be said about these three volumes is, that their
youthful author had the saving sense not to try the Christian temper of a publisher with their
perusal.

Yet, in truth, I have never regretted the precious portion of human existence spent in their
creation; for I must have written off in that way a certain amount of apprenticeship which
does, in some cases, find its way into type, and devastate the endurance of a patient public.

The war story of which I speak was distinctly the beginning of anything like genuine work for
me. Mr. Alden tells me that it was published in January, 1864; but I think it must have been
written a while before that, though not long, for its appearance quickly followed the receipt
of the manuscript. The name of the story was "A Sacrifice Consumed." It was a very little story,
not covering more than four or five pages in print. I sent it to "Harper's Magazine," without
introduction or what young writers are accustomed to call "influence;" it was sent quite privately,
without the knowledge of any friend. It was immediately accepted, and a prompt check for twenty-five
dollars accompanied the acceptance. Even my father knew nothing of the venture until I carried
the letter and enclosure to him. The pleasure on his expressive face was only equalled by its
frank and unqualified astonishment. He read the story when it came out, and, I think, was touched
by it--it was a story of a poor and plain little dressmaker who lost her lover in the army--and
his genuine emotion gave me a kind of awed elation which has never been repeated in my experience.
Ten hundred thousand unknown voices could not move me to the pride and pleasure which my father's
first gentle word of approval gave to a girl who cared much to be loved, and little to be praised;
and the plaudits of a "career" were the last things in earth or heaven then occupying her mind.

Afterwards, I wrote with a distinct purpose, and, I think, quite steadily. I know that longer
stories went, soon and often, to the old magazine, which never sent them back; and to which
I am glad to pay the tribute of a gratitude that I have never outgrown. There was nothing of
the stuff that heroines and geniuses are made of in a shy and self-distrustful girl who had
no faith in her own capabilities, and, indeed, at that time, the smallest possible amount of
interest in the subject.

It may be a humiliating fact, but it is the truth, that had my first story been refused, or
even the second or the third, I should have written no more.

For the opinion of important editors, and for the sacredness of market value in literary wares,
as well as in professorships or cotton cloth, I had a kind of respect at which I sometimes
wonder; for I do not recall that it was ever distinctly taught me. But, assuredly, if nobody
had cared for my stories enough to print them, I should have been the last person to differ
from the ruling opinion, and should have bought at Warren Draper's old Andover book-store no
more cheap printer's paper on which to inscribe the girlish handwriting (with the pointed letters
and the big capitals) which my father, with patient pains, had caused to be taught me by a
queer old travelling-master with an idea. Professor Phelps, by the way, had an exquisite chirography,
which none of his children, to his evident disappointment, inherited.

But the editor of "Harper's" took everything I sent him; so the pointed letters and the large
capitals continued to flow towards his desk.

Long after I had achieved whatever success has been given me, this magazine returned me one
of my stories--it was the only one in a lifetime. I think the Editor then in power called it
too tragic, or too something; it came out forthwith in the columns of another magazine that
did not agree with him, and was afterwards issued, I think, in some sort of "classic" series
of little books.

I was a little sorry, I know, at the time, for I had the most superstitious attachment for
the magazine that, when "I was a stranger, took me in;" but it was probably necessary to break
the record in this, as in all other forms of human happiness.

Other magazines took their turn--the "Atlantic," I remember--in due course; but I shared the
general awe of this magazine at that time prevailing in New England, and, having, possibly,
more than my share of personal pride, did not very early venture to intrude my little risk
upon that fearful lottery.

Perhaps this reserve was more natural because "Harper's" published as fast as I could write;
which is not saying much, to be sure, for I have always been a slow worker. The first story
of mine which appeared in the "Atlantic" was a fictitious narrative of certain psychical phenomena
occurring in Connecticut, and known to me, at first hand, to be authentic. I have yet to learn
that the story attracted any attention from anybody more disinterested than those few friends
of the sort who, in such cases, are wont to inquire, in tones more freighted with wonder than
admiration: "What! Has she got into the 'Atlantic'?"

The "Century" came in turn, when it came into being. To this delightful magazine I have always
been, and always hope to be, a contributor.

I read, with a kind of hopeless envy, histories and legends of people of our craft who "do
not write for money." It must be a pleasant experience to be able to cultivate so delicate
a class of motives for the privilege of doing one's best to express one's thoughts to people
who care for them. Personally, I have yet to breathe the ether of such a transcendent sphere.
I am proud to say that I have always been a working-woman, and always had to be; though I ought
to add that I am sure the proposal that my father's allowance to his daughter should cease,
did not come from the father.

When the first little story appeared in "Harper's Magazine," it occurred to me, with a throb
of pleasure greater than I supposed then that life could hold, that I could take care of myself,
and from that day to this I have done so.

One hesitates a little, even in autobiography, about saying precisely this. But when I remember
the thousands of women who find it too easy to be dependent on too heavily-weighted and too
generous men, one hesitates no longer to say anything that may help those other thousands of
women who stand on their own feet, and their own pluck, to understand how good a thing it is
to be there.

Of all the methods of making a living open to educated people to-day, the profession of literature
is, probably, the poorest in point of monetary returns. A couple of authors, counted successful
as the world and the word go, said once:

"We have earned less this year than the fisherman in the dory before the door of our summer
home." Perhaps it had been a good year for Jack; possibly a poor one for those other fishers,
who spread their brains and hearts--a piteous net--into the seas of life in quest of thought
and feeling that the idlers on the banks may take a summer's fancy to. But the truth remains.
A successful teacher, a clever manufacturer, a steady mechanic, may depend upon a better income
in this country than the writer whose supposed wealth he envies, and whose books he reads on
Sunday afternoons, if he is not too sleepy, or does not prefer his bicycle.

When we see (as we have actually done) our market-man driving by our old buggy and cheap horse
on holidays, with a barouche and span, we enjoy the sight very much; and when I say (for the
other occupant of the buggy has a little taste for two horses, which I am so plebeian as not
to share, having never been able to understand why one is not enough for anybody): "But would
you be the span-owner--for the span?" we see the end of the subject, and grow ravenously contented.

One cannot live by bread or magazine stories alone, as the young daughter of toil too soon
found out. Like other writers I did hack work. My main dependence was on that venerable and
useful form of it which consists in making Sunday-school books. Of these I must have written
over a dozen; I wince, sometimes, when I see their forgotten dates and titles in encyclopædias;
but a better judgment tells me that one should not be ashamed of doing hard work honestly.
I was not an artist at Sunday-school literature (there are such), and have often wondered why
the religious publishing societies kept me at it so steadily and so long.

There were tales of piety and of mischief, of war and of home, of babies and of army nurses,
of Tom-boys, and of girls who did their mending and obeyed their mothers.

The variety was the only thing I can recall that was commendable about these little books,
unless one except a considerable dash of fun.

One of them came back to me--it happened to be the only book I ever wrote that did--and when
the Andover expressman brought in the square package, just before tea, I felt my heart stand
still with mortification. Fortunately nobody saw the expressman. I always kept my ventures
to myself, and did not, that I can remember, read any manuscript of mine to suffering relatives
or friends, before publication. Indeed, I carried on the writer's profession for many years
as if it had been a burglar's.

At the earliest moment possible I got myself into my little room, and turned both keys upon
myself and my rejected manuscript. But when I came to read the publisher's letter, I learned
that hope still remained, a flickering torch, upon a darkened universe. That excellent man
did not refuse the story, but raised objections to certain points or forms therein, to which
he summoned my attention. The criticism called substantially for the rewriting of the book.
I lighted my lamp, and, with the June beetles butting at my head, I wrote all night. At three
o'clock in the morning I put the last sentence to the remodelled story--the whole was a matter
of some three hundred and fifty pages of manuscript--and crawled to bed. At six, I stole out
and found the expressman, that innocent and ignorant messenger of joy or woe. The revised manuscript
reached the publisher by ten o'clock, and his letter of unconditional acceptance was in my
hands before another tea-time.

I have never been in the habit of writing at night, having been early warned against this practice
by the wisest of fathers (who notably failed to follow his own advice); and this almost solitary
experience of the midnight oil remains as vivid as yesterday's sunset to me. My present opinion
of that night's exploit is, that it signified an abnormal pride which might as well have received
its due humiliation. But, at the time, it seemed to be the inevitable or even the creditable thing.

Sunday-school writers did books by sets in those days; perhaps they do still. And at least
two such sets I provided to order, each of four volumes. Both of these, it so happens, have
survived their day and generation--the Tiny books, we called them, and the Gypsy books. Only
last year I was called upon to renew the copyright for Gypsy, a young person now thirty years
old in type.

There is a certain poetic justice in this little circumstance, owing to the fact that I never
worked harder in my life at anything than I did upon those little books; for I had, madly enough,
contracted to supply four within a year.

We had no vacations in those days; I knew nothing of hills or shore; but "spoke straight on"
through the terrible Andover weather. Our July and August thermometers used to stand up hard
at over ninety degrees, day and night, for nearly a week at a time. The large white mansion
was as comfortable as ceiled walls and back plaster could be in that furnace; but my own small
room, on the sunny side of the house, was heated seven times hotter than endurance. Sometimes
I got over an open register in a lower room, and wrote in the faint puffs of damp air that
played with my misery. Sometimes I sat in the cellar itself; but it was rather dark, and one
cherished a consciousness of mice. In the orchard, or the grove, one's brains fricasseed quickly;
in fact, all out-of-doors was a scene of bottomless torment worthy of a theology older and
severer than Andover's.

When the last chapter of the last book was done, it occurred to me to wonder whether I might
ever be able to afford to get for a week or two where the thermometer went below ninety degrees
in summer. But this was a wild and baseless dream, whose irrationality I quickly recognized.
For such books as those into which I had been coining a year of my young strength and heart,
I received the sum of one hundred dollars apiece. The "Gypsy" publisher was more munificent.
He offered one hundred and fifty; a price which I accepted with incredible gratitude.

I mention these figures distinctly, with the cold-blooded view of dimming the rosy dreams of
those young ladies and gentlemen with whom, if I may judge by their letters, our country seems
to be brimming over.

"Will you read my poem?" "Won't you criticize my manuscript?" "I would like to forward my novel
for your perusal." "I have sent you the copy of a rejected article of mine, on which I venture
to ask--," etc., etc. "I have been told that all I need is Influence." "My friends think my
book shows genius; but I have no Influence." "Will it trouble you too much to get this published
for me?"

"Your Influence--" and so on, and so on, run the piteous appeals which every successful author
receives from the great unknown world of discouraged and perplexed young people who are mistaking
the stir of youth or vanity, or the ennui of idleness, or the sting of poverty, for the solemn
throes of power.

What can one do for them, whom no one but themselves can help? What can one say to them, when
anything one says is sure to give pain, or dishearten courage?

Write, if you must; not otherwise. Do not write, if you can earn a fair living at teaching
or dressmaking, at electricity or hod-carrying. Make shoes, weed cabbages, survey land, keep
house, make ice-cream, sell cake, climb a telephone pole. Nay, be a lightning-rod peddler or
a book agent, before you set your heart upon it that you shall write for a living. Do anything
honest, but do not write, unless God calls you, and publishers want you, and people read you,
and editors claim you. Respect the market laws. Lean on nobody. Trust the common sense of an
experienced publisher to know whether your manuscript is worth something or nothing. Do not
depend on influence. Editors do not care a drop of ink for influence. What they want is good
material, and the fresher it is, the better. An editor will pass by an old writer, any day,
for an unknown and gifted new one, with power to say a good thing in a fresh way. Make your
calling and election sure. Do not flirt with your pen. Emerson's phrase was, "toiling terribly."
Nothing less will hint at the grinding drudgery of a life spent in living "by your brains."

Inspiration is all very well; but "genius is the infinite capacity for taking pains."

Living? It is more likely to be dying by your pen; despairing by your pen; burying hope and
heart and youth and courage in your ink-stand.

Unless you are prepared to work like a slave at his galley, for the toss-up chance of a freedom
which may be denied him when his work is done, do not write. There are some pleasant things
about this way of spending a lifetime, but there are no easy ones.

There are privileges in it, but there are heart-ache, mortification, discouragement, and an
eternal doubt.

Had one not better have made bread or picture-frames, run a motor, or invented a bicycle tire?

Time alone--perhaps one might say, eternity--can answer.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Footnote 5: "A sin once committed, always deserves punishment; and, as long as strict Justice
is administered, the sin must be punished. Unless there be an Atonement, strict Justice must
be administered; that is, Sin must be punished forever; but, on the ground of the Atonement,
Grace may be administered, instead of Justice, and then the sinner may be pardoned."]

LOST YOUTH.

BY R.L. STEVENSON.

Originally published in the "Pall Mall Gazette."

THE DIVIDED HOUSE

BY JULIA D. WHITING,

Author of "The Story of Myra," "Brother Sesostris," "A special Providence," and other stories.

When Selucius Huxter had arrived at his last illness, he proved himself more than ever in his
life troublesome and wearing. Having a suspicion that his condition was worse than his doctor
or children allowed, he gave them no peace until he had extracted an admission that such was
the case. Left alone with the doctor at his request, he reproached him.

"Ye might as well told me before as let me lay here thinkin' and stewin' about it. I've lost
a sight of strength tryin' to git the truth from ye, and there wa'n't no need. Wall--I suppose
I ain't reely dyin' naow, while I'm a-talkin', be I?"

Assured as to that point, he added: "The reason I wanted to know is because I've got to fix
my concerns so as to leave 'em as well as I can; and all I want of you is that when you think
I'm--wall--if you see there's goin' to be a change, I want you should tell me, so's't I can
straighten things right out and git their consent to it." Having promised, the doctor apprised
him as the last moments drew near.

"Sho! I want to know! Why, I feel full as well as I did yes'dy and a leetle grain easier, if
anythin'."

"I hope this notice does not find you unprepared," observed the doctor.

"Wall, no; I'm prepared as much as I can be, as you may say. I've been a member in good and
regular standin' this fifty-five year--and I hain't arrived at my age without seeing there's
somethin' in life beside livin'." He paused, then added with an accent of pride, "I don't owe
any man a cent, nor never cheated a man of one. Wall, I've had quite a spell to think of things
in, durin' my sickness, and I don't know but what I've enjoyed it considerable. Thought of
things all along back to when I was a boy. Events come up that I'd clean forgot."

The doctor gone, he called his children in.

"Wall, Armidy, wall, Lucas, the doctor don't seem to think I shall tucker it out much longer.
Wall, naow," he exclaimed, quite vexed, "I vow for't if I didn't forgit to ask him how long!
Wall, too late naow. He's got out of sight, I s'pose."

Armida stepped to the window, and assured him of the fact.

"Wall, no gret matter. I jist thought if I could git him to fix the time I'd like to see how
nigh he'd hit it.

"Naow, I want to fix the property so's't you won't have no trouble with it. No use wastin'
money gittin' lawyers here. There ain't no cheatin' nor double-dealin' anywhere to be found
amongst the Huxters nor the Lucases; and when you give me your promises to abide by my last
will and testament I shall expect you to hold to it jist the same as if it was writ out.

"Naow, about the farm and house. The house, as you know, stands in the middle line of the farm;
that is, the north side has a leetle the advantage in hevin' the Jabez Norcross paster tacked
unto it, over and above the south half, but it's near enough. That paster don't count for much.
Pooty thick with sheep laurel. Wall, seein' the land lies jist as it does, and the house is
jist as it is, I propose to divide it even. Lucas, you can have the north half, and Armidy
the south, beginnin' right to the front door, and runnin' right through the house and right
along down to the river, straight as you can fetch it. Do you agree to my plan?"

Armida and Lucas exchanged glances. "You speak," said Lucas in a low tone.

"No, you," said Armida.

"What you whisperin' about? P'raps you think I can't hear because I'm dyin', but I'd have you
to know my hearin' ain't affected a grain. Speak up naow! What is it, Lucas?"

"We were thinkin' of Theodore," said Lucas. "You're leavin' him out, seems so."

"'Tain't 'cause I forgot him; but I give him all I cal'lated to when he quit home five year
ago--money; and so I sha'n't leave him anythin'. Wouldn't do him no good, if I did," he said
to himself.

"Well, we should feel better if you did," said Armida. "I don't want he should be left out.
Neither would mother if she was livin'; she'd feel bad."

"I'll settle it with your ma when I see her. Come, now, what do you say?"

There was a long silence, which Armida broke by saying, "S'posin' him or me was to want to
leave the place, I mean for good--get tired of stayin' here to home?"

"Wall," said her father with a chuckle, "if either of you feels like givin your share to the
other, you may. I ain't goin' to leave my old place for either of you to sell to each other
nor nobody else. I expect you to live on't."

"Well," now objected Lucas; "s'posin' one of us should git married, then how would it be?"

"Why, live along. Put in and work a leetle harder, maybe. This farm carried a pooty fair number
when I was younger. If you should git too numerous you could build on either side. I guess
there ain't no gret danger," he added.

As neither offered further objections, Mr. Huxter said: "There's been talk enough, I s'pose.
Do you agree to 't?" He waited while each gave an audible "yes." "Naow," said he, "I hain't
an earthly thing to hamper me."

The father dead, for the brother and sister no new life began. Armida still skimmed all the
milk and made the butter, looked after Lucas as she had before, and Lucas attended impartially
to the whole of the farm, and Armida sometimes wondered what difference it made. To be sure
the profits were divided with the most rigid exactness; but everything went tranquilly on until
more than a year after their father's death, when Armida had a suspicion, confirmed by appearances,
that Lucas was becoming interested in a young girl in a neighborhood a few miles away. The
spirit of jealousy surely animated poor Armida, for nothing else could have prompted her action.
Having ascertained the girl's name, she caused to be conveyed to her the facts, colored for
the occasion, relating to the partition of the house and land; and the young woman, having
a shrewd eye to the main chance, bluntly told Lucas when next she saw him that she didn't wish
the half of a house nor the half of a farm.

Lucas had thought all might go on smoothly with a wife, and had counted on her accepting the
situation. Inquiring as to who had meddled in his affairs, he traced the matter back to Armida,
and coming home mortified and angry, reproached her in unsparing terms, ending his recital
of wrongs with: "I don't know what you did it for, unless you was afraid your half was going
to be invaded; and if you feel that way you'd better keep to your side and take care of your
own property. I ain't going to interfere."

Armida was powerless to protect herself except with tears, which did not avail with Lucas.
She made overtures of peace, such as offering to cook her brother's meals and look after his
share of the milk; but was warned to attend to her own business.

Lucas had a new pipe-hole made in the kitchen chimney, and bought a new stove, and hunted up
a kitchen table, telling Armida she was welcome to the stove and table they had previously
used in common, but he'd thank her to stay on her own side of the room. The situation would
have been ludicrous if it had not been grim earnest to the brother and sister. Lucas had a
hard side to his character, and he could not forgive his sister's interference. He would not
even give Armida advice, but allowed her cows to break into her cornfield and her sheep to
stray away, without warning her, though all the while his heart pricked him at sight of her
distress. Still all he would do was to suggest that she get a hired man.

Accordingly Armida, in despair, hired an easy-going, good-natured creature that offered his
services. He did very well, and Armida got on better, and took courage.

But there was a dreadful blow in store for her. Lucas brought a gang of carpenters to the farm,
who instituted repairs on his half of the house. He even went so far as to commit the extravagance
of having blinds hung for his sitting-room and front chamber windows, and his half of the front
porch was trimmed with brackets, and then the whole of his half of the house painted white,
so that his neighbors rallied him on being proud. "Only," as one said, "why don't you extend
your improvements right along acrost the house, Lucas? It looks sorter queer to see one-half
so fine and the other so slack."

"Armida's free to do she's a mind to," said Lucas. "If she wants to fix up her side, she can.
I don't hinder her--"

"Nor you don't help her neither, as I see," said the other.

"I believe in 'tendin' to your own affairs and not interferin' with other folks," Lucas rejoined.

Armida was made very unhappy by these changes and the comments of the neighbors, and would
gladly have beautified her half also, but had no money to spend. The farm had fallen behind,
and she was pinched for means. She did what she could, taking more care than usual of vines
and flowers, and even had an extra bed dug under her front windows, where she had many bright-hued
flowers; but as she rose from digging around her plants and surveyed the house--Lucas's side
with the new green blinds and the clapboards shining with paint, hers with its stained, weather-beaten
appearance and its staring windows--she felt ashamed and discouraged.

She feared her hired man was slack and neglected his work; yet when he threatened to go, and
afterward compromised the matter by offering to stay if she'd marry him, at a loss what to
do, and partly because she was lonely, she married him. He was a respectable man, whose only
fault was laziness, and she hoped that now he would take an interest. When Armida and her husband
came back from the minister's and announced to Lucas that they were married, his only comment
was, "Well, a slack help will make a shif'less husband."

Years went by, and Armida's side of the house fell more and more into ruin; while Lucas, with
what Armida considered cruel carefulness, kept his in excellent repair and occasionally renewed
the paint. The contrast was so great that passers-by stopped their horses that they might look
and wonder at their leisure. Every glance was like a blow to Armida, so that she avoided her
sitting-room and kept herself in the uncomfortable kitchen that was divided by an imaginary
line directly through the middle, a line never crossed by her brother, her husband, or herself.

It would have looked absurd enough to a stranger to see this divided room, with the brother
clumsily carrying on his household affairs on the one side and the sister doing her work on
the other, with often not a word exchanged between them for days together. Absurd it might
be, but it was certainly wretched. Armida grew old rapidly. Her husband was a poor stick, and
when, as years passed, a touch of rheumatism gave him a real excuse for laziness, he did little
more than sit by the fire and smoke.

As Armida sat on the bench under the old russet apple-tree by the back door one day, regretting
her evil fate, she heard footsteps approaching, and, pushing back her old sun-bonnet, looked
up to see a shabby, shambling, oldish man coming around the side of the house and gazing in
at the windows, "What ye doin' there?" said Armida sharply.

The man turned, surveyed her with a smile, then said with a drawl she remembered: "I hain't
been gone so long but that I know ye, Armidy. Don't you remember me?"

"Theodore Huxter! Is that you? Well!" and she hurried up to him, and shook hands violently.

"I heard only last week that father was dead," he explained. "I seen a man from this way, and
he said he was gone. How long since?"

"More than ten years ago."

"Well, I thought I'd come and see ye."

"I'm glad you did," she said. "But come right in;" and she led the way into the kitchen.

He leaned up against the door and surveyed the room. "I should 'a' s'posed I'd have remembered
this room, but what ye done to it? What hev you got two stoves and two tables and all that
for, Armidy?"

Armida told him all, winding up her story with a few tears.

"That accounts for the looks of the outside, I s'pose," was his only comment. "I thought it
was about the queerest I ever see. It's ridiculous! Why haven't you and Lucas straightened
out affairs before this?"

"I can't, and he can't, I s'pose," she said hopelessly; "and everything makes it worse. I wouldn't
care so much if he hadn't fixed up the outside the way he did."

"Oh, well now, don't you fret. If I had money--but then I haven't."

"How have you lived sence you left home?" Armida inquired.

"Why, I've had a still, and made essence and peddled it out; but I sold the still to git money
to come here, and it took all I had."

"Well now, Theodore, I wish you'd stay here now you've got round again," said Armida with great
earnestness. "I've worried about you a sight. I'd be glad to have you, and Lucas would, I know."

To spare a possible rebuff for Theodore, she ran out as she saw Lucas coming to the house to
get his supper, and apprised him of his brother's arrival, glad to find he shared her pleasure
in it. As Lucas entered the room he shook hands with Theodore, saying, "How are ye?" to which
Theodore responded with "How are you, Lucas?"

Theodore was a relief and pleasure to all the family. He observed a strict impartiality. If
he split some kindling-wood for Armida, he churned for Lucas. If he took Armida's old horse
to be shod, he helped Lucas wash his sheep. He accepted everything, asking no questions after
the first evening, but kept an observant eye on all.

Both Lucas and Armida had loved him since their earliest remembrance, and retained their old
fondness for him now. He was a welcome guest on either side of the kitchen, and though when
he announced of an evening that he was going visiting, and stepped across the line to the other
side of the half from where he had been sitting, the owner of the side he honored felt pleased
by the distinction, yet the one on the opposite side, though no longer (according to an understood
law) joining in the conversation, still had the benefit of Theodore's narratives.

He was busy, too, in his way. He was indefatigable in berry-picking and herb-gathering, selling
what Armida and Lucas did not wish, and showing not a little shrewdness. When he had laid a
little money together he bought a still, and distilled essences of peppermint, wintergreen,
and other sweet-smelling herbs and roots, and when a store was accumulated he filled a basket
and departed on a peddling expedition, returning with money in his purse and a handkerchief
or ribbon for Armida. Once he bought her a stuff gown, which she came near ruining by weeping
over it, it was such a delight.

Lucas remonstrated. "I think you're foolish, Theodore. Why don't you spend your money on yourself?
You'd a sight better get you a new coat."

"I'd rather see Armida crying over that stuff," said Theodore, "than have a dozen coats. Nobody
knows Armida's good looking, because she's no good clothes. But she is, and when she gets that
dress made up and puts it on with that pink ribbon I bought her last time, she'll look as pretty
as a pink."

Not so great a success were the Venetian blinds that he bought second-hand and gave to Armida
to hang in the sitting-room. They proved to be in sorry condition, and Theodore was much mortified.
Being a handy creature, he managed to patch them up so that, though they could not be rolled
up, they looked very well from the outside; and, as he philosophically remarked:

"What more do you want, Armidy? A room you never set in, you don't want any light in."

There was one thing that Theodore would not do. He would not, as he said, fellowship with Jerry,
Armida's husband. "Tell you, Armidy," he would say, "I can't put up with a man like him."

"Some folks call you shif'less, Theodore," Armida retorted with bitterness.

"Well, I am," he allowed; "but the difference is--I'm lazy, but work, my fashion; but he's
lazy, and don't work at all."

Though he disdained Jerry, he would rather do his tasks than see Armida's interests suffer;
and when he was not occupied with his still or peddling, he busied himself on her side of the
farm. Lucas would at any time give him a helping hand rather than see Theodore hurt himself,
and so Armida's fences were mended and sundry repairs on her barns and out-houses made. Lucas
was still as stiff as ever, and the help given was always to oblige Theodore, who laughed to
himself but said nothing.

He once attempted to wheedle Lucas into painting at least all of the front of the house, but
Lucas was not to be moved. Disappointed in that, Theodore brought home a pot of yellow paint
when returning from his next expedition, and painted his sister's half of the kitchen floor,
in spite of her remonstrating that Lucas wouldn't like it, though she acknowledged it looked
pretty, and in spite of Lucas's vexation at finding the room ridiculous.

"No more ridiculous than it was before," Theodore assured him; "it couldn't be. Besides," he
added, as an afterthought, "I'll bring it plumb up to the middle, and neither of you will be
trespassin' on the other's side. I noticed one of your chairs was a leetle grain onto Armidy's
side the other night, and that ain't right."

In the middle of an afternoon, as Lucas was ploughing out his corn, he heard a "Hello!" to
which, when it had been two or three times repeated, he replied, though without looking around.
Presently he heard some one coming, in a sort of scuffling run, and breathing heavily, and
looked over his shoulder to see Theodore, who dropped into a walk as he spied him, and gasped:
"Lucas! Say! Stop! Look here!"

"Well?" said Lucas, and pulled up his horse.

"I'm too old to run like this, that's a fact," said Theodore, mopping his face and leaning
up against the plough. "There's a queer piece of work for us to do, Lucas. Armidy's all smashed
up on the road, right down here on that second dip, and I guess Jerry is stone dead, and we
must fetch 'em up just as soon as we can."

Lucas made no comment, but mechanically unfastened the horse and turned toward the house, his
brother stumbling behind, quite exhausted by the hurry and fatigue of the hour.

As they went Lucas said: "How did you come to know of it?"

"Well, it was cur'us," said Theodore. "You know I had old Sam this morning, bringing in a little
jag of wood for Armidy, and lengthened out the traces to fit the old waggin. Well, all I know
about it is what I guess. I see from the looks they must 'a' concluded to go to the village
with some eggs and so on, 'cause you can see in the road where they smashed when the basket
flew out; and Jerry didn't know no more than to hitch up into the buggy without shortenin'
the traces, and you know how that would work. Well, the cur'us thing is that I was out in the
paster mowin' some brakes--here, let me hitch up this side, while you do the other--and I heard
somebody or somethin' comin' slam-bang, and I looked up--I wa'n't near enough so as to see
who 'twas nor anythin'--and I looked up, and see 'em comin' like hudy, down one of them pitches.
Thinks said I, well, there's a hitch-up that's goin' to flinders--and just then the forward
wheel struck a big stone, and I see the woman and man and all fly inter the air and come down
agin, and the hoss went."

"Where's the horse now?" said Lucas.

"I don't know, and I don't care. Tell ye, best put a feather-bed in the bottom of this waggin,
because her arm's broke for certain, and I don't know what else. I'll fetch it--if you've got
some spirits."

"Yes," said Lucas, "I'll fetch some;" and both hurried into the house, and soon came out again
and hastened off.

"How did you know who 'twas?" Lucas inquired, with solemn curiosity fitting the occasion.

"Why, I didn't; but I knew when they didn't offer to git up, whoever 'twas wanted help, and
I put across the lot to 'em, and sure enough 'twas Armidy and Jerry. I looked her over, and
see by the way she lay that one of her arms was broke, anyway, and stepped over to where Jerry
was, and sir! he was as dead as Moses! Head struck right on a big stone and broke his neck--his
head hung down like that," letting his hand fall limply from the wrist.

"Does she know?" said Lucas.

"No, and I hope she won't for a spell. She hadn't come to when I left her."

Lucas struck the horse with the end of the reins to urge him on.

"There, now you can see 'em," said Theodore, rising in his seat and pointing down the road.
Lucas followed his example, and looking before them they could see both husband and wife lying
motionless in the road.

Between them they soon lifted poor Armida into the wagon, and laid her on the bed as tenderly
as might be, eliciting a groan by the operation.

"Best give her some?" said Lucas, bringing a bottle of brandy from out his pocket. "Come to
think of it, best not. She won't sense it so much if she don't realize."

A brief examination of Jerry was sufficient. The brothers exchanged glances and shakes of the
head. "And to think," said Theodore, as they regarded the body, "that it was only this morning
I said to Armidy there was one tramp too many in the house, meaning me, and now to have my
words brought before me like this! 'Twasn't anything but a joke, but I hope she won't remember
it against me."

"Well, first thing we've got to do is to get her to the house," said Lucas.

Armida having been made as comfortable as the present would allow, and Jerry having been brought
up and consigned to the best chamber, as befitted his state, Lucas hastened after the doctor
and Aunt Polly Slater. The doctor found Armida in a sad case. "Though I don't think," he assured
the brothers, "if she isn't worried she will be hard sick. She's naturally rugged, and it's
merely a simple fracture of the forearm. The sprained ankle will be the most tedious thing,
but I must charge you to keep her in ignorance of her husband's death."

Theodore helped Aunt Polly in caring for Armida, and never was woman more tenderly cared for.
Many were the lies he was forced to tell, as Armida was first surprised, then indignant, at
Jerry's apparent neglect.

"Even Lucas has come to the door and looked at me," she complained, "and Jerry ain't so much
as been near me."

Theodore was fain to concoct a story about a strained back that would not allow Jerry to rise
from the bed. When it was deemed prudent to tell her, the task fell to Theodore, who was very
tender of his sister, remembering that though he considered Jerry a shiftless, poor shack of
a creature, Armida probably had affection for him. She took her loss very quietly.

"He was always good to me," she said, "and he cared for me when no one else did."

"You're wrong there," Theodore remonstrated.

"I used to tell myself I was," she replied sadly. "I knew I give the first offence, but Lucas
never would 'a' done as he did by the house if he'd cared for me."

Lucas heard the reproach where he stood out of sight in the little entry that led to Armida's
room, listening to the brother and sister as they talked together within. He often lingered
there, wishing to enter, but not daring to; longing to atone for the unhappiness he had caused
his sister, but not knowing how to set about it. Now, taking Theodore into his confidence,
he set to work to obliterate all outward signs that made it "the divided house," leaving to
his brother the task of keeping it from Armida. As she querulously inquired what all the hammering
and pounding that was going on in front of the house meant, Theodore had a story ready about
the steps to the front porch being so worn out that Lucas had to have some new ones, "or else
break his legs goin' over them." The smell of paint was accounted for by Lucas "havin' one
of his spells of gittin' his side painted over agin;" on which Armida gave way to tears, until
her brother comforted her by saying it didn't make much difference, a new coat couldn't make
it any whiter than it was.

It was a great day when Armida was pronounced well enough to eat breakfast in the kitchen.
Hobbling out with the aid of Theodore's arm, she stepped on the threshold, and looked over
to where Lucas stood by his window. He greeted her with, "How are ye, Armidy?" but did not
leave his place.

"It seems good to git out of my bedroom," said Armida; then stopped, gazed about her, and sank
into a convenient chair, exclaiming, "What does it mean?"

For both her and Lucas's old stoves were gone, and a new one stood directly before the middle
of the chimney, with its pipe running into the old pipe-hole that they used before the house
was divided. The coffee-pot steamed and bubbled over the fire, and a platter of ham and eggs
stood on the hearth, while the table, set for breakfast, stood exactly in the centre of the
room; the dividing line had been wiped out by the paint-brush, and Lucas's side shone with
yellow paint like her own.

"What does it mean?" she cried, trembling and clutching at Theodore's arm. Theodore said nothing,
but slipped out of the room, and Lucas, after an awkward pause, said: "Armidy, I wanted, if
you was willin', that we should quit doin' as we have done and have things together as we used
to. Seems as if it would be pleasanter, and if you can forgive what I've done, I'll try to
make it up to ye."

"Why, Lucas!" was all she could say.

"I know I hain't done by ye like a brother," said Lucas, anxious to get his self-imposed humiliation
over, "and I'm sorry, and I'd like to begin over again."

"I'm just as much a transgressor as you be," said Armida, anxious to spare him. "If I hadn't
said what I did, I 'spose you'd married Ianthe, and like as not had a family round ye."

"I don't know as I care now," said Lucas; "I have felt hard to ye; but I see Ianthe last March"--he
laughed--"and I didn't mourn much that her name wa'n't Huxter. But that's neither here nor
there. If you feel as if you could git along with two old brothers to look after instead of
one, and overlook what's passed--"

"I'd be glad to, Lucas, if you won't lay up anything against me."

"Well, then;" and coming to her side Lucas bent over her, and, to her great surprise, kissed
her. Turning away before she could return the kiss, he opened the back door and called to Theodore.

As Theodore came in, Lucas said: "If you had a shawl round ye, Armidy, wouldn't you like to
git out a minute before breakfast?" and without waiting for an answer, he brought her shawl
and wrapped it round her, then put on her bonnet.

"Can't you and I," he said to Theodore, "make a chair and take her out? You hain't forgot sence
you left school, hev you?"

Locking their hands together they formed what school-children call a chair, and lifting Armida
between them, carried her through the hall, out at the front door, down the walk to the gate,
and turned round, while Theodore bade his sister look up at the house. Armida obeyed. She saw
the house glistening with paint, her side of it as white as Lucas's, and blinds adorning her
front windows, while the front porch, with new-laid floor and steps and bristling with brackets,
was, in her eyes, the most imposing of entrances.

Could it be true? she asked herself, and shut her eyes; then glanced again, then looked at
her brothers, who were both silent, Theodore smiling with joy, while Lucas looked gravely down
at her.

"Oh, Lucas!" she cried, throwing her arms around his neck, "you done this for me!"

"I told you I was sorry, Armidy," he said.

SCIENTIFIC KITE-FLYING.

BY CLEVELAND MOFFETT.

On the long peninsula that separates New York Bay from Newark Bay, there is, among other things,
a red house by an open field, in which lives the king of kite-flyers. Every one in Bayonne,
the town which covers this peninsula, knows the red house by the open field; for scarcely a
day passes, winter or summer, that kites are not seen sailing above this spot--sometimes a
solitary "hurricane flyer," when the wind is sweeping in strong from the ocean; sometimes a
tandem string of seven or eight six-footers, each one fastened to the main line by its separate
cord. And wonderful are the feats in kite-illumination accomplished by Mr. Eddy (the king aforesaid)
on holiday nights, especially on the Fourth of July, when he keeps the sky ablaze with gracefully
waving meteors, to the profound awe or admiration of his fellow-townsmen.

If you enter the red house and show a proper interest in the subject, Mr. Eddy will take you
up to his kite-room, where skyflyers of all sorts, sizes, and materials range the walls--from
the tiniest, made of tissue paper, to nine-footers, with lath frames and oil-cloth coverings.
Hanging from the ceiling is one of the queer Hargrave kites, which looks like a double box,
and seems as little likely to fly as a full-legged dining-table; yet fly it will, and beautifully
too, though by a principle of aëroplanes only recently understood.

Then Mr. Eddy will show you the room where, with the help of his deft-fingered wife, also a
kite enthusiast, he spends many hours developing and mounting photographs taken from high altitudes,
with a camera especially constructed to be swung and operated from the kite cord.

Until one talks with a man like Mr. Eddy--though, indeed, there is no one just like him--one
does not realize what a large and important subject this of scientific kite-flying is. Many
men of distinction have devoted years of their best energies to experiments with kites. Mr.
Eddy himself is a scientist first, last, and always; for the sake of a new observation he will
send up a tandem of kites when the thermometer is below zero, or stand half a night at his
reeling apparatus, getting records of the thermograph.

Perhaps I shall do best to begin by giving some useful information to those who may contemplate
constructing a modern scientific kite. The first thing that should be done by such a person,
be he boy or man, is to rid his mind of all his preconceived notions about kites, for it is
almost certain that they are incorrect. To begin with, the scientific kite has no tail. A few
years ago people would have laughed at any one who attempted to send up a kite without a tail.
But the question is now no longer even open with the scientific kite-flyers, who not only send
up tailless kites with the greatest ease, but do so under conditions which, to kites with tails,
would be impossible: for instance, in dead calms and in driving hurricanes. The tailless kite,
sent from the hands of a master, will fly in all winds.

It is true that kites with tails have given good results in experimental work; but the tails
are annoying and an unnecessary weight, and may better be dispensed with. Every boy has had
the vexatious experience of sending up a kite in a light breeze with a tail made light in proportion,
only to find that, on reaching stronger air currents above, the kite has begun to dive and
grow unmanageable. Then, when he has taken the kite down and added a heavier tail, he has found
the breeze at the ground insufficient to lift the extra load; and so, between two difficulties,
has had to give up his sport in disgust. This is the one serious defect of kites with tails,
that they cannot adapt themselves to wind currents of varying intensities; whereas the tailless
kites do so without difficulty. And in tandem flying, which is the backbone of the modern system,
the weight of a half dozen or more heavy tails would be a serious impediment, to say nothing
of the perpetual danger of the different tails getting entangled in the lines.

HOW TO MAKE A SCIENTIFIC KITE.

It is important, then, to know how to make a scientific tailless kite, such as is used by the
experts at the Smithsonian Institution, or at the Blue Hills Conservatory near Boston, for
it must not be supposed that kite-flying is merely an idle pastime; it is a pleasure doubtless
for boys, but it is also a field of serious experiment and observation for men. The information
I here present, including practical directions as well as interesting theories, was obtained
from Mr. Eddy himself, and may be regarded as strictly accurate.

It is much better for amateurs to begin with a kite designed to fly in strong winds, as it
is a long and delicate task to learn to manage the variety with extra wide cross-stick meant
for ascension in calms. The two sticks which form the skeleton should be of equal lengths,
say six feet; and should cross each other at right angles at a point on the upright stick eighteen
per cent. of its length below the top. This point of crossing is of great importance, and was
only located by Mr. Eddy after months of wearisome experiment. He was misled in his earlier
efforts at tailless kite-making by the example of the Malay kiter-flyers, who are reputed to
be the most skilful in the world, and who cross the sticks much nearer the middle of the upright
one. In a six-foot kite the two sticks, equal in length, should cross at about thirteen inches
from the top of the upright stick; and the same proportion should be observed for kites of
other dimensions. At the point of crossing, the sticks should be slightly notched, and strongly
bound together with twine tied in flat knots. Driving a nail or screw through the sticks, to
bind them, weakens the frame at the point of greatest strain.

As material for the sticks Mr. Eddy has found clear spruce better than any other wood. Bamboo
is bad, because it bends unevenly at the joints. White pine is not tough enough, and cypress
is both too brittle and too flexible. The hard woods, like ash, hickory, and oak, are too heavy;
in scientific kite-flying, even so small a weight as a quarter of an ounce may make all the
difference between failure and success. All winds are broken by frequent brief intervals of
calm, and a kite must rely on its lightness to outride these. Whoever contemplates going seriously
into kite-flying will do well to provide himself with a store of suitable sticks by purchasing
a straight-grained, well-planed spruce plank, free from knots, and having it sawed on a circular
saw into sticks five-sixteenths and seven-sixteenths inches in thickness, to be cut later into
such lengths as he may choose.

The two sticks (there are never more than two) having been fastened firmly together, the cross-stick
must be sprung backward; so that, when finished, the kite will present a convex or bulging
surface to the wind. It might be imagined that a concave surface to the wind would be better;
and indeed this has been tried. But it has invariably proved that with a concave surface the
kite receives too much of the breeze and becomes quite uncontrollable. The amount of spring
that must be given the cross-piece is in proportion to its length, Mr. Eddy's rule being to
spring the cross-stick, by means of a cord joining the two ends like a bow, until the perpendicular
between the point of juncture of the two sticks and the centre of the cord is equal to one-tenth
of the length of the cross-stick, or a little more than one-tenth, if the kite is to be flown
in very high winds.

It is of the first importance to keep the two halves of the kite on the right and the left
of the upright stick perfectly symmetrical. And this is by no means an easy matter. It often
happens in bending the cross-stick that, owing to differences in the fibre and elasticity of
the wood, one side bends more than the other, with the result that the two halves present different
curves and consequently unequal wind areas. To offset this difficulty, and also to strengthen
the skeleton, Mr. Eddy's practice is to add a bracing piece at the back of the cross-stick--a
piece about one-fourth of the length of the cross-stick itself, and of the same width and thickness.
If the two halves of the kite are already quite symmetrical, he places this bracing stick with
its centre directly even with the point of juncture of the two large sticks, its two ends being
fastened with twine to the cross-stick, about nine inches on either side of the crossing-point.
But if one half of the cross-stick shows a greater bend than the other, he places the longer
arm of the bracing piece toward the side that bends the most, thus presenting a greater leverage
against the wind on that side than on the other, and so equalizing things.

With the two sticks and the brace all thus properly in place, a supporting frame for the paper
or cloth is formed by running, not cord, but fine picture wire, over the tips of the sticks,
notched to hold it in place, in the ordinary way. Then, with a thin, clear paste made of starch,
the paper may be laid on, care being taken to paste the edges so as to leave a certain amount
of slack or looseness in the part of the kite below the cross-stick, so that each of the lower
faces will present concave wind surfaces. To preserve the required equilibrium, it is important
that the amount of looseness in the paper be equal on the two sides; and in order to keep it
so, it is necessary to measure exactly the amount allowed.

Those who wish to make many kites will do well to buy thin manilla paper, as wide as possible,
having the dealer roll off for them seven hundred or eight hundred feet, say a yard in width,
which will insure a cheap as well as an abundant supply. For strong winds and large kites it
is best to use cloth as the covering. It should be sewed to the frame, and, if carefully put
on, will do service for years. Silk, of course, is the ideal material; but its costliness puts
it beyond ordinary means, and common silesia, such as is used in dress linings, is almost as
good. Whatever the material, the kite should be fortified at the corners by pasting or sewing
on quadrants of paper or cloth, so as to give double thickness at the points most liable to
injury. A finished six-footer should not weigh over twenty ounces, if covered with paper; or
twenty-five ounces, if covered with cloth. Mr. Eddy has made a six-footer for calm flying as
light as eight ounces.

HOW TO SEND UP A KITE.

There is only one way to learn the practical art of kite-flying, and that is to begin and do
the thing yourself--with many mishaps and disappointments at the outset. One of Mr. Eddy's
practices when sending kites up in very light winds or in an apparent calm, is to reel out
two hundred yards or so of cord in a convenient open space, leaving kite and cord on the ground
until ready to start. Then, by taking the cord at the extreme distance from the kite, and beginning
to run with it, he gets it quickly into the upper air currents, which are always stirring more
than those at the surface. It is sometimes necessary to run for a considerable distance before
the kite reaches a sustaining current; but a real kite enthusiast will not mind taking trouble;
indeed he had better abandon the whole business if he does. It is worth noting that even in
a dead calm a kite may be kept up indefinitely as long as the flyer is willing to run with
the cord at the rate of about five miles an hour.

In flying kites tandem there is always to be guarded against the danger of a breaking of the
cord. Few people realize how hard a pull is exerted by a series of kites well up in the air.
A strain of twenty-five or thirty pounds on the cord is not uncommon; and not only the strength
of the cord, but the way of attaching it, is of great importance. There should be two strings
(never more), fastened to the upright stick at its lower end and at the point of crossing,
the upper length being about one-third of the lower one, and the two being adjusted so that,
when taut, the kite takes an angle of about twenty degrees with the ground--which means that
the kite goes up almost straight overhead, the string making an angle of about seventy degrees
with the ground.

In sending up a series of kites to fly tandem, it is best to head the line with a small kite,
three or, four feet in diameter, and gradually increase the size until a diameter of six feet
is reached for the one sent last. This arrangement makes it possible to hold the upper kites
by lighter cord, the heavier kites being reserved for the half of the line nearest to the ground;
and thus there is a material lessening of the load to be borne. The first kite should be well
up, say five hundred feet, before the second is attached to the line. But after that they maybe
sent at closer intervals, sometimes with only a few hundred feet between them--say two hundred
feet in light winds, and five hundred feet in heavy winds. Each kite in a tandem should have
a length of at least one hundred feet of cord from the main line, and great care should be
exercised in knotting fast the individual lines.

The best way of starting a second kite, after the first is well up, is to pay out about a hundred
feet of cord for the tandem line, attaching one end of this to the main cord and the other
to the second kite, which is left lying on the ground back downward. Then pay out the main
line evenly until the tandem line begins to lift. As the pendent kite is borne higher and higher,
it will swing for a while in a horizontal position; but will presently begin to flutter and
sail sideways, and then finally come up more and more, until the wind catches it and it shoots
up like a bird into its proper position. In fact, once the first kite is securely up, the others
will fly themselves by merely being attached to the main line as described. Of course each
fresh kite increases the pull on the main line, and the line must be made proportionately stronger
as the tandem is increased.

RUNAWAY TANDEMS.

Mr. Eddy has had some remarkable experiences with escaping kites. One day at Bayonne, in July,
1894, while he was flying a tandem of eight kites in a northwest wind blowing eighteen miles
an hour, the main line broke with a loud snap, and the kites sailed away towards Staten Island
with the speed of an escaped balloon. One can scarcely conceive the rapidity with which a line
of kites like this travels over the first four or five hundred feet after its release. An ice-boat
goes no faster, and one might as well pursue the shadow of a flying cloud as chase that string.
At the time of the escape the top kite, a four-footer, was up nearly a mile, and the other
seven were flying at a good elevation. The consequence was that although, as invariably happens
in such cases, they began to drop, the lowest kite did not strike the ground until it had been
carried about a quarter of a mile, to the New Jersey shore of the Kill von Kull, which is half
a mile wide at this point. Here kite number eight, a six-footer, caught in a tree and held
the line for a few seconds until its own cord broke, under the strain, and set the other kites
free. This check had lifted the other kites, and they now flew right bravely across the water,
not one of the seven wetting its heels before the farther shore was reached. Then the lowest
of them came to the ground, in its turn putting a brief check on the others. But its cord soon
broke under the strain, and the six still flying went sailing over the trees of Staten Island,
hundreds of people watching them as they flew--six tailless kites driving along towards New
York Bay, the main line trailing behind over lawns and house-tops.

Then a queer thing happened. As the loose end of the main line trailed along, it whipped against
a line of telegraph wires with such violence as to wind itself around the wires again and again,
just as a whip-lash winds round a hitching-post when whipped against one. The result was that
the runaway kites were finally anchored by the main line, and held fast until their owner,
coming in quick pursuit on ferryboat and train, could secure them.

On another occasion, two of Mr. Eddy's kites flying in tandem broke away, and started out to
sea, the dangling line passing over a moored coal barge on which a man was working. Feeling
something tickle his neck, the man put up his hand quickly and touched the kite-cord. Greatly
surprised, he seized the cord and made it fast; and he was not at all disposed to give up the
kites when Mr. Eddy claimed them. There is no property, indeed, so hard to prove and recover
as a runaway kite. For one thing, there is absolutely no telling how far a runaway kite will
sail before landing. Mr. Eddy estimates that when the main line breaks, a kite well up in a
twenty-five mile breeze will travel, before alighting, a distance equal to twelve times its
height from the ground. This means that a kite straight over the Battery, in New York City,
and a mile in the air, driven by a stiff south wind, might land in Yonkers if the cord broke.
There is, by the way, an old-time ordinance on the statute book, prohibiting the flying of
kites in any part of New York City below Fourteenth Street. This, however, did not prevent
Mr. Eddy from taking recently a series of unique photographs (some of them are reproduced in
this article), by means of a tandem of kites sent up from a high building near the City Hall
Park. The only complication that resulted was a fierce contention among a crowd of idlers and
gamins over the possession of one of the kites, which came down accidentally and lodged in
one of the Park trees.

THE LIFTING POWER OF KITES.

A tandem of six or eight six-foot kites exerts a pull of thirty pounds or more on the main
line; but it must not be assumed that such a tandem would lift and carry through the air a
weight of thirty pounds. The weight of thirty pounds would be carried a short distance; but
as the weight moved off, there would be a sudden lessening of the resistance on the line, and
so of the wind pressure against the kites, which would soon cause them to sink. A tandem of
strong kites in a good breeze might be made to operate a sort of jumping apparatus which, after
being carried a short distance, would anchor itself to the ground until the renewed strength
of the kites lifted it up again for another jump. But all kite experts are agreed that a kite's
power for lifting loads clear of the ground must be enormously increased according as the distance
to which the load is to be lifted is increased. It would be possible, for example, to build
a tandem of kites strong enough to lift a man clear of the ground, supposing him to be swung
in a basket from the main line. This, indeed, has been actually accomplished. September 18,
1895, in England, Captain Baden-Powell was lifted to a height of one hundred feet on a kite-string
supported by five large hexagon kites. But Mr. Eddy calculates that to lift a man of the same
weight (one hundred and fifty pounds) to a height of fifteen hundred feet, with a wind blowing
at the same rate (twenty miles an hour), would require seven kites with upright and cross-sticks
not less than sixty-four feet each in length.

The only other instance on record where a man has been lifted by a kite-cord was in the experiment
of the great Australian kite expert, Hargrave, who, on November 12, 1894, placed himself in
a sling seat attached to a tandem of his wonderful box kites, and was swung sixteen feet clear
of the earth. The entire load, including the seat and appurtenances, amounted to two hundred
and eight pounds. Mr. Eddy calculates that six of his bird-shaped kites, twenty feet in diameter,
would lift a man and basket in safety to a height of one hundred feet, assuming the wind to
be blowing steadily at twenty miles an hour.

THE METEOROLOGICAL USE OF KITES.

Although Mr. Eddy began flying kites as a diversion, he soon saw that there were more serious
reasons for continuing his experiments. Having long been interested in meteorological problems,
it occurred to him that good results might be obtained by sending aloft, on kite-strings, self-registering
thermometers and apparatus for indicating the direction and strength of the air currents. On
February 4, 1891, he sent up what is believed to be the first thermometer ever attached to
a kite for scientific purposes. This was at nine o'clock in the evening on a cold winter's
night, the thermometer registering ten degrees Fahrenheit at the ground. On reading the record
after the descent, the thermometer was found to mark six degrees Fahrenheit, which indicated,
according to the recognized law of decrease of temperature, that the kite had been sent to
a height of one thousand feet. The law is that in ascending from the earth the temperature
falls one degree for every two hundred and fifty feet; but subsequent experiments convinced
Mr. Eddy that it was by no means to be relied upon as an indication of the height of kites.
Not that the law is false; but it holds good only when the meteorological conditions above
are the same as at the earth's surface, which is very far from being the case always.

Out of these experiments Mr. Eddy evolved an important theory which has since been abundantly
verified. Seeing the frequent variations in the thermometric readings from what the law had
led him to expect, he concluded that these were due to meteorological variations overhead;
and that changes in the weather, say the approach of warm waves or cold waves, make themselves
felt in the air strata above the earth's surface several hours before they can be detected
at the surface. Observations extending over months at the Blue Hills Observatory, near Boston,
and elsewhere, have abundantly confirmed this theory.

With this fact established, it followed, in Mr. Eddy's opinion, that it was perfectly possible
to use kites in making weather prognostications; and, indeed, he has been doing this himself
for several years with the best results. Whenever his kite-thermometers, sent to a fixed height
which he determines independently by a specially devised kite-quadrant, show actual readings
which are either warmer or cooler than the theoretical readings, he prophesies that the weather
will, within a few hours, become warmer or colder at the earth's surface, and these prophecies
are fulfilled in a large majority of cases. If the kite-thermometers show exactly the temperature
which the law would call for, he prophesies that there will be no change in the weather.

It has also been demonstrated that kites may be used by meteorologists to indicate the approach
of storms, which they foretell by a sudden and continuous veering over a considerable arc,
usually about sixty degrees. This veering begins usually six or seven hours before a storm,
and often as much as twelve hours. And another sure sign of a storm is the continuous and sudden
dropping of the kites followed by a quick recovery, which shows that the wind is blowing in
gusts interspersed with periods of calm.

In making a series of meteorological experiments which he conducted at the Blue Hills Observatory,
Mr. Eddy often employed as many as eight or ten kites; and in August, 1895, he sent up twelve
kites on one line, three of them being nine-footers. This is probably the largest number of
kites ever sent up in tandem; and although on this occasion the line carried only the thermographs
suspended in a basket, the whole weighing not more than two pounds, a very much larger load
might have been carried, had it been desired.

Among many other curious things about the wind observed by Mr. Eddy, is the fact that the night
winds are by far the steadiest and most satisfactory for kite-flying. On this account much
of his work with kites has been done in the darkness, although he uses lanterns on the lines
to assist him in locating the kites. It has also been demonstrated that the force of the wind
increases steadily as the distance from the earth increases. Archibald proved this conclusively,
by suspending a series of wind-measuring instruments at intervals along the main line, their
registration showing almost invariably greater wind pressure at the higher altitude. Mr. Eddy
has furthermore noted that, while the early morning wind is usually very light at the earth's
surface, it is almost invariably good aloft; and he has again and again verified the well-established
fact that all clouds herald their approach and are accompanied by increased wind velocity.

THE HIGHEST FLIGHT EVER MADE BY A KITE.

The modern system of flying kites tandem was devised by Mr. Eddy in 1890, although it was hit
upon two years later independently by Dr. Alexander B. Johnson, the distinguished surgeon of
the Roosevelt Hospital in New York. The tandem system makes it possible to send kites to far
greater altitudes than had ever been previously attained. And here the best record is undoubtedly
held by one of Mr. Eddy's tandems, sent aloft at Bayonne, on November 7, 1893. Mr. Eddy began
to send up the kites at 7:30 A.M.; but, being hampered by light breezes from the east, found
he was kept busy until half-past three in the afternoon in getting nine kites aloft. He had
paid out nearly two miles of cord, when the top kite, a little two-footer, stood straight over
the spar buoy in Newark Bay. The lowest kite, a six-footer, was hovering some distance inland
from the shore, on a line from the shore to Mr. Eddy's house (where the end of the line was
anchored) measuring fifty-five hundred feet by the surveyor's map. Taking two observations
from the two ends of this base line, Mr. Eddy's kite-quadrant showed angles of thirty-five
and sixty-six degrees; and these data, by simple methods of triangulation, were sufficient
to determine the altitude of the kite, which was found to be five thousand five hundred and
ninety-five feet--or something over one mile. The kites were seen by hundreds of persons during
the fifteen hours that they remained up, the experiment coming to an abrupt end at ten o'clock
that night by the blowing away of the two upper kites in the increasing wind. The escaped kites
disappeared in Newark Bay, along with three thousand feet of the line.

Much interest attaches from a scientific point of view to experiments designed to test how
great an altitude may be reached by kites; and for a year past Mr. Eddy has been working in
this direction for the Smithsonian Institution, the hope being that he will ultimately succeed
in sending kites two miles above the earth's surface. Professor Langley has been following
these experiments with great interest, and has furnished Mr. Eddy with a special quality of
silk cord which, it is believed, will give better results in meteorological observation than
the ordinary hempen twine or rope. The great difficulty that Mr. Eddy finds in the way of making
his kites reach great altitudes, is the pull on the cord, which increases greatly as the kites
rise higher. It is probable that a tandem of fifteen or twenty big kites, reaching to a mile
above the earth's surface, would exert a pull of one hundred pounds; while at a height of two
miles they might, Mr. Eddy thinks, exert a pull of three hundred and fifty pounds; and at a
height of three miles, a pull of seven hundred pounds. However great the pull, it is essential
to successful flying that the man in control be able to let out or reel in the main line with
great rapidity, and it is evident that a dozen men could not by hand alone accomplish this
if the kites were sent as high as might be. It is likely, therefore, that, as the importance
of scientific kite-flying becomes more widely understood, some simple dummy engine will be
devised for rapidly turning the windlass on which the main line is wound.

Mr. Eddy has made frequent experiments with rain-kites, which he used for the first time in
November, 1893. It is true that Franklin sent up a flyer during a shower, but in his case the
rain was merely an accident accompanying the electric storm, which was his only concern. Mr.
Eddy, however, has sent up kites in the rain for the purpose of studying cloud altitudes and
other meteorological phenomena; and by this means he has discovered what was not previously
believed to be true: that clouds sometimes sink to within six hundred feet of the earth's surface
without actually coming down to it. In fact, Mr. Eddy has had kites disappear in a cloud at
a height of only five hundred and sixty-eight feet. It has sometimes happened that clouds settling
toward the earth have obscured the kites gradually, the top one becoming invisible first, and
then the others in succession. Mr. Eddy has found that by such indications he is able to foretell
the approach of fog four or five hours before it reaches the earth's surface, so slowly do
the clouds settle through the air strata.

It is best to make rain-kites of oil-skin or paraffine paper, as the ordinary paper or cloth
becomes saturated with the dampness and very heavy, thus lessening the buoyancy of the line.
So penetrating is the dampness of clouds, even without a rain-storm, that the wooden frames
sometimes become warped and the paste seams soak open.

DRAWING DOWN ELECTRICITY BY A KITE-STRING.

The scientific kite-flyer will find much to tempt him into the field of electricity; and will
be able, not only to duplicate Dr. Franklin's historic experiment of bringing down sparks from
the heavens, but may go far beyond this, taking advantage of the greater knowledge of electricity
at his disposal and the superior apparatus. In the summer of 1885, Alexander McAdie, at the
Blue Hills Observatory, got strong sparks at the earth's surface from a wire connected with
a kite whose surface had been coated with tinfoil so as to form an electric collector. He also,
by the brightness and increased lengths of the sparks obtained, proved that the electric force
in the atmosphere is very greatly increased with the approach of thunder clouds; and also that
this force increases steadily as the kites reach greater altitude, and vice versa. Indeed Mr.
Eddy and others who have conducted similar experiments, have found the electric force so strong
at certain altitudes as to make the manipulation of the conducting wire a source of considerable
danger.

On October 8, 1892, Mr. Eddy made an important advance in electrical experiments with kites,
by using a collector quite separate from the kites themselves, which were merely used in tandem
to support the line on which the collector was swung and raised to any desired altitude. By
this arrangement any accident that might befall one of the kites is less likely to ruin the
whole experiment.

Much experience with the kite-collector has convinced Mr. Eddy that there is always in the
air overhead, at all times of the year and in all weathers, an abundant, practically a boundless,
supply of electricity. It has never yet happened to him to send his collector up to even so
low a height as four hundred feet without getting a spark in his discharge-box at the earth.
He has discovered, however, that the greater the amount of moisture in the air, the greater
is the height to which he must send the collector before getting the first spark. There is
no doubt that large quantities of electricity might be obtained by hoisting large collectors,
supported by strong flying tandems, to considerable altitudes, and drawing off the supply at
the earth by means of a system of transformers which would lower the electricity from the dangerously
high tension at which it discharges down the wire, to a voltage that could be handled with
safety. In his experiments thus far, Mr. Eddy has discharged the copper wire leading from his
collector into a wooden box containing a pasteboard wheel with darning-needle axle and tinfoil
edges. The axle is grounded, and the copper wire from the collector placed near the tinfoil
periphery of the wheel, so as to discharge its sparks through the intervening distance, and
by the shock cause the wheel to turn.

THE USE OF KITES IN PHOTOGRAPHY.

One of the most interesting applications of the kite, but a thoroughly practical one, is its
use in photography. This has been entirely developed within the past year or two; indeed the
first kite-photograph taken on the American continent was one made by Mr. Eddy's camera on
May 30, 1895. Although some attempts in this direction had been previously made in Europe,
this was the first clearly focused kite-photograph obtained. The previous ones had been blurred,
owing to defects in the devices for swinging the camera apparatus from the kite-cord, and for
loosening the shutter. Mr. Eddy's apparatus will be better understood from the accompanying
cut than from any description. In a general way it is a wooden frame capable of holding the
camera, and terminating behind in a long stick or boom, by means of which the camera is made
to point in any desired direction or at any angle. This is arranged before sending up the apparatus,
the boom being properly placed and held in position by means of guy cords from the main kite-line.
A separate line hangs from the spring of the camera shutter, with which is also connected a
hollow ball of polished metal supported in such a way that it will drop from its position,
five or six feet through the air, when the camera cord is pulled. The purpose of this ball
is to allow the operator on the ground to be sure that the camera has responded to his pull
and that the desired photograph has been taken. He is assured of this, having given the pull,
on seeing the flash made by the polished ball in its fall.

All this being arranged, it is only necessary to send the camera up to any desired altitude
and pull the camera cord, in order to get photographs of wide-stretching landscapes, extensive
cities, like New York, and panoramas of every description. Such photographs could not but be
of the greatest value to geologists, mountain climbers, surveyors, and explorers. And they
must possess particular interest for students of geography and for map-makers.

POSSIBLE USE OF KITES IN WAR.

It is obvious, too, that kite-photographs might be of great value in time of war, since a detailed
view of an enemy's lines and fortifications might be thus obtained; while at sea a perfected
kite-photographing apparatus might be of great value in recording the approach of an enemy's
ships. Mr. Eddy regards it as perfectly possible to send up a tandem of kites from the deck
of a man-of-war, with a circular camera, such as has already been devised, attached to the
main line, and an apparatus for snapping all the shutters simultaneously; and photograph, not
only the whole horizon as seen from the deck of a vessel, but, because of the greater elevation,
many miles beyond. A battle-ship provided with this photographing device would enjoy as great
an advantage as if it were able at will to stretch out its mainmast into a tower of observation
a mile high.

It is true that some of the lenses in the circular camera, the ones facing the sun, might give
imperfect pictures; but in whatever position the sun might be, at least one hundred and eighty
degrees of the horizon would be clearly photographed. And by taking such observations in the
early morning, and again in the middle of the afternoon, it would be possible to cover the
whole circuit, and thus be aware of the approach of an enemy's ships long before they would
have been visible to a telescope used on the deck. In such a circular camera each lens would
be numbered, and the position of each would be accurately determined with regard to the points
of the compass by the use of guy-cords stretching from the main line to the framework of the
apparatus. Thus, on looking at the number of a lens, the photographer would immediately know
from which direction any vessel whose image was shown might be coming.

Nor is the use of the kite in war limited to the services it would render in photography; it
might easily do more than that, and become a most efficient and novel engine of destruction.
As has been shown, it is merely a question of carpenter work to send up a tandem of kites that
will swing a heavy load high in the air. Suppose that load were dynamite, with an arrangement
for dropping it over any desired spot. Mr. Eddy suggests that this might be effected by means
of a slow match made by soaking a cotton string in saltpetre, which would be lighted on despatching
the load of dynamite, and would burn at a regular rate, say one foot in five minutes, so that
the length of the match could be timed to meet the necessities of the case. On burning to its
end, the match would ignite a cord holding the dynamite in a pasteboard receptacle, one side
of which would fall down like the front of a wall-pocket as soon as the restraining cord was
burned through; and immediately the dynamite in the box would be launched toward its destination.
Mr. Eddy has already carried out an experiment similar to this, in setting loose from high
elevations tiny paper aëroplanes. With a little practice he found he could start the slow match
with such precision as to cause the aëroplanes to burst out into flight at any desired altitude.
This interesting and beautiful experiment was performed for the first time by Mr. Eddy on February
22, 1893, when he sent off from a height of one thousand feet forty aëroplanes, their forward
edges weighted with pins for greater stability.

Assuming such an arrangement made for discharging a load of dynamite, Mr. Eddy calculates that,
with a twenty-mile breeze, six eighteen-foot kites would lift fifty pounds of the explosive
a quarter of a mile in the air and suspend it over a fort or beleaguered city half a mile distant.
It would thus be perfectly possible, supposing the wind to be in the right direction, to bombard
Staten Island with dynamite dropped from kites sent up from the Jersey shore. It is evident
that, for purposes of bombardment, a tandem of kites possesses several advantages over the
war balloon. Kites are much cheaper. Then it would be far more difficult to disable them than
to disable a balloon, since they offer a smaller mark to the enemy's guns; and even if one
or two were destroyed, the others would still suffice to carry the dynamite. Finally, the kites
may be sent up without risk to the lives of those who directed them, which is not the case
with the balloons.

Another interesting and important application of the modern kite has been conceived by Professor
J. Woodbridge Davis, principal of the Woodbridge Boys' School, in New York, who is one of the
most famous kite-flyers in the world, in addition to being a distinguished scientist and mathematician.
It was Professor Davis who invented the dirigible kite several years ago, three strings allowing
the operator to steer the kite from right to left at will or to make it sink to earth. Having
perfected this curious kite, which is of hexagon shape, is covered with oiled silk, is foldable,
portable, and has a tail, Professor Davis turned his attention to his more recent and important
discovery of the dirigible buoy, which bids fair to do much to lessen the dangers of shipwreck.
For months past Professor Davis, assisted by Mr. Eddy, has been experimenting on the Kill von
Kull with this buoy, and has obtained most encouraging results. There are two kinds, both being
designed to be attached to kite lines and drawn over the water by the power of the kite. The
simpler variety is merely a long wooden tube about three inches in diameter and shaped very
much like a gun projectile, with a cone of tin dragging behind to give steadiness. It is for
use only when the wind is blowing in exactly the direction in which it is designed to send
a message or carry a rope. It will be observed that, in a large number of cases when ships
are driven on rocks, the wind is blowing toward the shore, and in such cases a line of kites
would readily carry one of these buoys ashore with the important words inside or the still
more important rope following after.

Not satisfied, however, with this buoy, Professor Davis sought some means of making kites draw
a load across the water in any direction desired, regardless of the way the wind might be blowing;
and, after much thought and calculation, he hit upon what is now known as the Davis buoy, an
object that has become familiar to dwellers at Bergen Point and Port Richmond, from the frequent
experiments on the Kill that have been carried on during the past year. This form of buoy is
much larger than the other, being three or four feet in length; and its essential feature is
a deep iron keel that projects below out of the block of wood forming the body. It is evident
that this keel will tend to keep the buoy headed in any given direction; and stability of position
is further assured by the presence of guy-ropes attached to the main line of the kite. Each
buoy is provided with three of these ropes, which, by being lengthened or shortened, may cause
the buoy to form any desired angle with the kite-cord, and to keep it. Professor Davis has
entirely succeeded in making the kites drag the buoy along the water in various directions
in the very strongest gales--in fact, under precisely the conditions that would assist when
the buoys would be needed for life-saving service from wrecks. And he is positive that, with
further experiment, he will be able, by moving along the shore until a tacking angle is reached,
not only to send lines, food, or messages to a disabled vessel from the shore, but to bring
back by the same kites and the same buoy other lines and messages from the people in distress.

Considering the important offices of which it has already been proved capable, and the possibility
which these suggest of many other practical applications, it is clear that the kite is no longer
to be regarded as simply a toy. And this, in turn, suggests anew the familiar truth that, after
all, nothing in this world is of small consequence.

A DRAMATIC POINT.

"Oh, bother the curtain!"

"It's all very well for you to condemn the curtain, Carl, but you must work up to it. But I
will take you on your own grounds. It seems to me that begs the whole question; that's just
what the war is about. He added for their information, by order of the President, that Lemoine
was to be shot at day-break. With that the officer escorted the two dumfounded men to the door,
where they got into their carriage without a word.

"Oh, I know that Balmaceda thinks he is going to have me shot; but then he always was a fool,
and never knew what he was talking about.

EDITORIAL NOTES.

MR. WARD'S STORY "THE SILENT WITNESS."

We published in our January number the first of a series of stories by Herbert D. Ward, in
which Mr. Ward will exhibit in dramatic form some monstrous imperfections in the present modes
of judicial procedure. That there is great need of such a study is shown by the remarkable
effect produced by the story already published, "The Silent Witness." In various parts of the
country the press has taken particular notice of the story and of the question with which it
deals. A recent number of "The Argus," Avoca, Pennsylvania, contained the following editorial:

"JUSTICE, WHERE ART THOU?"

"'The Silent Witness,' a powerful story in McCLURE's MAGAZINE for January, portrays in a graphic
and thrilling manner the evil, which in some cases amounts almost to a horror, of holding in
confinement witnesses in cases of capital crime who are unable to furnish bail.

"The story tells of a young and stalwart country lad who goes to Boston in search of fortune,
and on the night of his arrival, while wandering about in quest of lodgings to suit his scanty
purse, is the unwilling witness of a murder.

"He is arrested and held in the city jail to await the trial of the murderer.

"The news of his imprisonment reaches his widow mother up among the New Hampshire hills. She
knows nothing of the circumstances further than the rumors brought to her by her country neighbors.
She dies of a broken heart, though never doubting the innocence of her noble-hearted boy.

"The unfortunate young man learns of her death through his sweetheart, who comes to the Boston
prison to see him.

"His grief is beyond endurance, and he curses the law that forces such suffering upon the innocent.
He has brain fever, and when the case is called several months after the incarceration, the
sheriff, who is asked to produce the only witness for the commonwealth, responds that he died
that morning.

"The murderer, a saloon-keeper and ward man, has been at liberty under bail during the time
that the innocent witness has been suffering the untold agony experienced by one who comes
with spotless character from green fields and rural simplicity to the company of felons in
a wretched cell. There being no witnesses against him at the trial, a nolle prosequi is found,
and he goes free.

"This story is fiction, but it is not overdrawn. Such horrible things do happen in these fin-de-siècle
days in a civilized country.

"In Scranton, only this week, a woman, Mrs. Nicotera, was released after having been in custody
since February 28th last, as a witness in the Rosa murder case. She was confined with, her
husband, who was also a witness, in the Lackawanna county jail until her health broke down,
when she was removed to the Lackawanna hospital.

"On Tuesday she was released on her own recognizance. Her husband had been given his liberty
in a similar manner some weeks before. She was thin and pale when she appeared in court, and
had evidently passed through severe suffering. Careful nursing will be required to restore
her to health.

"It would seem as if some means of meeting the ends of justice could be devised without the
necessity of subjecting innocent persons to a felon's fate for simply being a chance witness
of an affair that is to be brought into the court."

In the editorial columns of a recent number of the Cleveland, Ohio, "World" appeared the following:

"A DISGRACE TO CIVILIZATION."

"A heart-breaking story, founded on fact, in McCLURE's MAGAZINE for the current month, is an
arraignment of the nineteenth century civilization that, considering its boasts of enlightenment
and decency, is as horrible an official crime as any that has given so dark a stain to Russian
treatment of innocence."

Following this is a long outline of Mr. Ward's story, and then the article continues:

"It is impossible to conceive of more awful inhuman injustice than this. But the story is not
overdrawn. It has happened with variations scores, if not hundreds, of times. It is occurring
or liable to occur this very day, not alone in Boston, but in Cleveland.

"At a meeting of the judges, a short time ago, Judge Lamson used the following language:

"'The detention of innocent persons as witnesses is, under the best of circumstances, bad.
It is clearly the duty of the people of this country or their representatives to see that the
present disgraceful method in vogue in the county jail is abolished. We have no right, under
any law, to place innocent persons on a plane with criminals. It is nothing more or less than
an outrage, inflicted on helpless people. I hope that the people of this county will be aroused
to the enormity of this problem, and very soon put an end to this imposition.'

"And the counterpart of the story in McCLURE's MAGAZINE has happened here within a short time.
Lewis Gerardin, a sailor, was released last April, after being detained six months. Several
months before, Frank Blaha, a saloon-keeper, who committed the crime of murder in the second
degree, managed to get bail. While Gerardin was held he received pathetic letters from his
wife and family begging him to come home. They did not know why he was held, and he said that
if they were to learn of his imprisonment they could not understand his innocence of crime.
One day a letter was received from home, announcing that his favorite little son had died but
a week before. The last words of the child called for his father. But Gerardin was not released
until the prosecutor was ready to dismiss him.

"Such possibilities are a disgrace to any community that tolerates such a horrible law or such
a feeble administration of it, and such callousness to human suffering that it will not save
these innocent victims from its outrageous injustice. When to this brutality are added the
comparative safety of the criminal, and the vile jails and the vile inmates with whom young
boys and girls and honest men and decent women are thrown for the crime of witnessing a crime,
it convicts the civilization of the age with a combination of stupidity and heartlessness that
had better say nothing of the Czar of Russia or the ferocious Kurds. In its essential injustice
and inhumanity it is not many removes from the lynchings of the South."

THE REAL LINCOLN.

The "McClure's Early Life of Lincoln," which has just been published, is worthy of comment
in these pages for several reasons.

1st. It contains no less than twenty portraits of Lincoln; and although this is only one-third
of the number that will appear in the whole life, it is more than twice as many as have appeared
in any previous life. Furthermore, most of the portraits are new to the public.

2d. There are a large number of entirely fresh documents, several of which are absolutely essential
to a full understanding of Abraham Lincoln, and some of which make it necessary to revise our
opinion of Lincoln's career.

3d. It contains a remarkable record of the achievements of the Lincoln family, whose services
to the country extended through nearly a century--a century which included the Revolutionary
War and the Civil War. Lincoln himself was ignorant of much of the history we have given about
his ancestors; but in the light of the facts set forth, his career is logical and easily understood.

4th. We have shown by new documents that Lincoln's father was by no means the colorless individual
we have hitherto understood him to be. The reminiscences of Christopher Columbus Graham, first
published in this volume, together with records we have unearthed in Kentucky, show that Thomas
Lincoln was the owner of a farm three years before his marriage, that he was a good carpenter,
and that he was held in esteem by his neighbors; while according to Mr. Graham, Thomas's brother
Mordecai (uncle of Abraham Lincoln) was a member of the Kentucky legislature. His two sisters
married into leading families.

5th. In regard to Lincoln personally, we have shown how thoroughly he educated himself, so
that at twenty-six he was able to more than hold his own as a member of the legislature of
Illinois.

It does not detract from the great fame of Abraham Lincoln to show that he was a worthy son
of a splendid ancestry, for his extraordinary personality would be just as hard to account
for had he been a scion of the most notable family in the world. When a man climbs the Matterhorn
it matters little whether he began his journey at Zermatt or a few furlongs farther on.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINCOLN IN 1860--J. HENRY BROWN'S JOURNAL.

As stated in the note to the portrait of Lincoln which makes the frontispiece of this number
of the MAGAZINE, the late J. Henry Brown, who went to Springfield, Illinois, in 1860, and painted
a miniature of Mr. Lincoln on ivory, left at his death a manuscript journal which contains
interesting entries regarding Mr. Brown's sojourn in Springfield and his acquaintance with
Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln. We print herewith this part of the journal entire:

  1860.                        AUGUST, Continued.

  Spring-  Illinois. 12. Sunday. Arrived here at three o'clock
  field                    this morning. Wrote some letters.
  "        "      13. Called at Mr. Lincoln's house to see him.  As
                      he was not in, I was directed to the Executive
                      Chamber, in the State Capitol. I found him
                      there. Handed him my letters from Judge Read.
                      He at once consented to sit for his picture.
                      We walked together from the Executive Chamber
                      to a daguerrean establishment. I had a half
                      dozen of ambrotypes taken of him before I
                      could get one to suit me. I was at once most
                      favorably impressed with Mr. Lincoln. In the
                      afternoon I unpacked my painting materials.
  "        "      14. Commenced Mr. Lincoln's picture; at it all day.
  "        "      15. At Mr. Lincoln's picture.
  "        "      16. Mr. Lincoln gave me his first sitting, in the
                      library room of the State Capitol. Called
                      to see Mrs. Lincoln; much pleased with her.
                      Wrote five letters.
  "        "  17, 18. At Mr. Lincoln's picture. Received an
                      invitation from Mrs. Lincoln to take tea with
                      them.
  "        "      19. Sunday. Wrote letters.
  "        "      20. Mr. Lincoln's second sitting. Have arranged to
                      have his sittings in the Representative
                      Chamber.
  "        "      21. At Mr. Lincoln's picture. Heard from home; all
                      well.
  "        "      22. Mr. Lincoln's third sitting.
  "        "      23. At Mr. Lincoln's picture.
  "        "      24. Mr. Lincoln's fourth sitting.
  "        "      25. Mr. Lincoln's fifth and last sitting. The
                      picture gives great satisfaction; Mrs.  Lincoln
                      speaks of it in the most extravagant terms of
                      approbation.
  "        "      26. Sunday. At church. Saw Mr. Lincoln there. I
                      hardly know how to express the strength of my
                      personal regard for Mr. Lincoln. I never saw a
                      man for whom I so soon formed an attachment. I
                      like him much, and agree with him in all things
                      but his politics. He is kind and very sociable;
                      immensely popular among the people of
                      Springfield; even those opposed to him in
                      politics speak of him in unqualified terms of
                      praise. He is fifty-one years old, six feet
                      four inches high, and weighs one hundred and
                      sixty pounds.  There are so many hard lines in
                      his face that it becomes a mask to the inner
                      man. His true character only shines out when
                      in an animated conversation, or when telling an
                      amusing tale, of which he is very fond. He is
                      said to be a homely man; I do not think so.
                      Mrs. Lincoln is a very fine-looking woman,
                      apparently in excellent health, and seems to be
                      about forty or forty-five years of age.
  "        "      27. The people of Springfield who have seen Mr.
                      Lincoln's picture speak of it in strong terms
                      of approbation, declaring it to be the best
                      that has yet been taken of him.  Received a
                      letter from Mr. Lincoln indorsing the picture;
                      also one from Mrs. Lincoln expressing her
                      unqualified satisfaction with it; also one
                      from Mr. John G. Nicolay, Mr.  Lincoln's
                      confidential clerk; and one from the man who
                      took the ambrotype. This would be, I suppose,
                      the proper place to say a word about
                      Springfield, the prairie city, as it is
                      sometimes called. It is a very pretty place;
                      the streets eighty feet wide.  It contains many
                      very fine buildings, and has a population of
                      about ten thousand.

