'Erb was resting after his eighth chuck-out under a plank when a venerable ant, heavy with
the accumulated wisdom and weakness of years, approached the exit from within and tried to
get out, but in vain. He swore and struggled in a futile sort of way, while his attendant subordinates
stood about helplessly. 'Erb saw his opportunity. He seized his plank, dashed forward--you
may not believe me, Jerry, but it is the gospel truth--saluted smartly, and laid down his plank
as a sort of ladder. Supporting himself upon it the veteran crawled out. Then he spoke to 'Erb,
and I think I saw him asking someone the lad's name.

That is why Second Lieutenant Herbert is to-day in charge of a working party. He is now engaged
in clipping the ear of a larger ant. I imagine there must have been some lack of discipline.
Possibly his inferior had addressed him as "Erb."

Well, all our prospects are pleasing and only Bulgar vile. I must now make a martial noise,
so au revoir.

          Thine,
          PETER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Motor Cycle says over 165,000 magnates have been made in Britain
    for war purposes."--Provincial Paper.

And the New Year Honours List (political services) has yet to appear.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "We owed all this more to our splendid navy and its silent virgil than
    to anything else."--Provincial Paper.

We suppose the CENSOR won't let him narrate the epic exploits of the Fleet, but he might have
allowed him a capital initial.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Surbiton residents have supplied for British prisoners in Germany 800
    waistcoats made from 2,100 old kid gloves."      Manchester Evening
    News.

A notable instance of large-handed generosity.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIX VILE VERBS.

(To the makers of journalese, and others, from a fastidious reader.)

  When I see on a poster
    A programme which "features"
  CHARLIE CHAPLIN and other
    Delectable creatures,
  I feel just as if
    Someone hit me a slam
  Or a strenuous biff
    On the mid diaphragm.

  When I read in a story,
    Though void of offences,
  That somebody "glimpses"
    Or somebody "senses,"
  The chord that is struck
    Fills my bosom with ire,
  And I'm ready to chuck
    The whole book in the fire.

  When against any writer
    It's urged that he "stresses"
  His points, or that something
    His fancy "obsesses,"
  In awarding his blame
    Though the critic be right,
  Yet I feel all the same
    I could shoot him at sight.

  But (worst of these horrors)
    Whenever I read
  That somebody "voices"
    A national need,
  As the Bulgars and Greeks
    Are abhorred by the Serb,
  So I feel toward the freaks
    Who employ this vile verb.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Some of the public men of Rawmarsh have high ambitions for their
    township, and at the Council meeting on Wednesday there was
    considerable industrial developments immediately after the war."
    Botherham Advertiser.

Happy Rawmarsh! In our part of the country it is not over yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "NAVY Pram. for Sale, good condition."      Provincial Paper.

Just the thing to prepare baby for being "rocked in the cradle of the deep."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUPER-CHAR.

    SCENE.--A square in Kensington. At every other door is seen the lady
    of the house at work with pail, broom, scrubbing-brush, rags,
    metal-polish, etc.

                  Chorus of Ladies.

    In days before the War
      Had turned the world to Hades
        We did not soil
        Our hands with toil--
      We all were perfect ladies;
    To scrub the kitchen floor
      Was infra dig.--disgusting;
        We'd cook, at most,
        A slice of toast
      Or do a bit of dusting.

    But those old days are flown,
      And now we ply our labours:
        We cook and scrub,
        We scour and rub,
      Regardless of our neighbours;
    The steps we bravely stone,
      Nor care a straw who passes
        The while we clean
        With shameless mien
      Quite brazenly the brasses.

  First Lady. Lo! Who approaches? Some great dame of state?
  Second Lady. Rather I think some walking fashion-plate.
  Third Lady. What clothes! What furs!
  First Lady. And tango boots! How thrilling!
    They must have cost five guineas if a shilling.
  Second Lady. Sh, dears! It eyes us hard. What can it be?
  Third Lady. It would be spoke to.
  Second Lady.          Would it?
  First Lady.                    Let us see!

                  Enter the Super-Char.

  Super-char. My friend the butcher told me 'e'd 'eard say
    You 'adn't got no servants round this way,
    And as I've time on 'and--more than I wish,
    Seein' as all the kids is in munish--
    I thought as 'ow, pervided that the wige
    Should suit, I might be willin' to oblige.

                  Chorus of Ladies.

      O joy! O rapture!
      If we capture
          Such a prize as this!
    Then we may become once more
    Ladies, as in days of yore,
    Lay aside the brooms and pails,
    Manicure our broken nails,
    Try the last complexion cream--
    What a dream
          Of bliss!

  Super-Char. 'Old on! Let's get to business, and no kidding!
    I'm up for auction; 'oo will start the bidding?
  First Lady. I want a charlady from ten to four,
    To cook the lunch and scrub the basement floor.
  Super-Char. Cook? Scrub? Thanks! Nothink doin'! Next, please! You, Mum,
    What are the dooties you would 'ave me do, Mum?
  Second Lady. I want a lady who will kindly call
    And help me dust the dining-room and hall;
    At tea, if need be, bring an extra cup,
    And sometimes do a little washing up.
  Super-Char. A little bit of dusting I might lump,
    But washing up--it gives me fair the 'ump!
    Next, please!
  Third Lady. My foremost thought would always be
    The comfort of the lady helping me.
    We have a cask of beer that's solely for
    Your use--we are teetotal for the War.
    I am a cook of more than moderate skill;
    I'll gladly cook whatever dish you will--
    Soups, entrées.
  Super-Char. Now you're talkin'! That's some sense!
    So kindly let me 'ave your reference,
    And if I finds it satisfact'ry, Mum,
    Why, s'elp me, I 'ave arf a mind to come.
  Third Lady. My last good lady left six months ago
    Because she said I'd singed the soufflé so;
    She gave me no address to write to--
  Super-Char. What!
    You've got no reference?
  Third Lady.     Alas, I've not!
  Super-Char. Of course I could not dream of taking you
    Without  one, so there's  nothing more to do.
    These women--'ow they spoil one's temper! Pah!
    Hi! (she hails a passing taxi) Drive me to the nearest cinema.
                  [She steps into the taxi and is whirled off.

                  Chorus of Ladies.

    Not yet the consolation
      Of manicure and cream;
    Not yet the barber dresses
    Our dusty tousled tresses;
    The thought of titivation
      Is still a distant dream;
    Not yet the consolation
      Of manicure and cream.

    Still, still, with vim and vigour,
      'Tis ours to scour and scrub;
    With rag and metal polish
    The dirt we must demolish;
    Still, still, with toil-bowed figure,
      Among the grates we grub;
    Still, still, with vim and vigour,
      'Tis ours to scour and scrub.

                  CURTAIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

A TALE OF A COINCIDENCE.

"Coincidences," said the ordinary seaman, "are rum things. Now I can tell you of a rum un that
happened to me."

It said Royal Naval Reserve round his cap, but he looked as if he ought to be wearing gold
earrings and a gaudy handkerchief.

"When I was a young feller I made a voyage or two in an old hooker called the Pearl of Asia.
Her old man at that time was old Captain Gillson, him that had the gold tooth an' the swell
ma'ogany fist in place o' the one that got blowed off by a rocket in Falmouth Roads. Well,
I was walkin' out with a young woman at Liverpool--nice young thing--an' she give me a ring
to keep to remember 'er by, the day before we sailed. Nice thing it was; it had 'Mizpah' wrote
on it.

"We 'ad two or three fellers in the crowd for'ard that voyage as would 'andle anything as wasn't
too 'ot or too 'eavy which explains why I got into a 'abit of slippin' my bits o' vallybles,
such as joolery, into a bit of a cache I found all nice and 'andy in the planking' back o' my bunk.

"We 'ad a long passage of it 'ome, a 'undred-and-sixty days from Portland, Oregon, to London
River, an' what with thinkin' of the thumpin' lump o' pay I'd have to draw an' one thing an'
another, I clean forgot all about the ring I'd left cached in the little place back o' my bunk
yonder.

"Well, I drew my pay all right, and after a bit I tramped it to Liverpool, to look out for
another ship. An' the first person I met in Liverpool was the young woman I 'ad the ring of.

"'Where's my ring?' she says, before I'd time to look round.

"Now, I never was one as liked 'avin' words with a woman, so I pitched her a nice yarn about
the cache I 'ad at the back o' my bunk, an' 'ow I vallied 'er ring that 'igh I stowed it there
to keep it safe, an' 'ow I'd slid down the anchor cable an' swum ashore an' left everything
I 'ad behind me, I was that red-'ot for a sight of 'er.

"'Ye didn't,' she says quite ratty, 'ye gave it to one o' them nasty yaller gals ye sing about.'

"'I didn't,' I says; 'Ye did,' she says; 'I didn't,' says I. An' we went on like that for a
bit until I says at last, 'If I can get aboard the old Pearl again,' I says, 'I'll get the
ring,' I says, 'an' send it you in a letter,' I says, 'an' then per'aps you'll be sorry for
the nasty way you've spoke to me,' I says.

"'Ho, yes,' she says, sniffy-like, 'per'aps I will, per'aps I won't,' an' off she goes with
'er nose in the air.

"My next ship was for Frisco to load grain; and I made sure of droppin' acrost the Pearl there,
for she was bound the same way. But I never did. She was dismasted in the South Pacific on
the outward passage, and had to put in to one of them Chile ports for repairs. So she never
got to Frisco until after we sailed for 'ome. An' that was the way it went on. She kep' dodgin'
me all over the seven seas, an' the nearest I got to 'er was when we give 'er a cheer off Sydney
Heads, outward bound, when we was just pickin' up our pilot. The last I 'eard of 'er after
that was from a feller that 'ad seen 'er knockin' round the South Pacific, sailin' out o' Carrizal
or Antofagasta or one o' them places. I was in the Western Ocean mail-boat service at the time,
and so o' course she was off my run altogether.

"I was still in the same mail-boat when she give up the passenger business an' went on the
North Sea patrol.

"Well, one day we boarded a Chile barque in the ordinary course o' duty, and I was one o' those
as went on board with the lootenant. They generally takes me on them jobs, the reason bein'
that I know a deal o' foreign languages. I don't believe there's a country in the world where
I couldn't make myself understood, partic'lar when I'm wantin' a drink bad.

"I wasn't takin' that much notice of this 'ere ship at the time (there was a bit of a nasty
jobble on the water, for one thing, and we 'ad our work cut out gettin' alongside), except
that 'er name was the Maria de Somethink-or-other--some Dago name. But while we was waitin'
for the lootenant to finish 'is business with Old Monkey Brand, which was the black-faced Chileno
captain she 'ad, it come over me all of a suddent.

"'Strike me pink!' I says, 'may my name be Dennis if I 'aven't seen that there bit o' fancy-work
on the poop ladder rails before;' which so I 'ad, for I done it myself in the doldrums, an'
a nice bit o' work it was, too.

"You'll 'ave guessed by now that she was none other than the Pearl of Asia; an' no wonder I
'adn't reckernised 'er, what with the mess she was in alow and aloft, an' allyminian paint
all over the poop railin's as would 'ave made our old blue-nose mate die o' rage.

"'You carry on 'ere,' I says to the feller that was with me; 'I'm goin' for'ard a minute.'

"'Arf a minute, an' I was in my old bunk; an' there was the cache all right, just like I left it."

He paused dramatically; I supposed it was for histrionic effect, but it lasted so long that
I said, "And so I suppose you sent the ring to the girl after all?"

"Oh! 'er!" he said, with an air of surprise, "I've forgot 'er name and all about 'er, only
that she 'ad a brother in one o' them monkey-boats of ELDER DEMPSTER'S--'e 'ad the biggest
thirst I ever struck."

"But the ring?" I said. "I suppose it was there all right?"

He stopped his pipe down with his thumb, with an enigmatical expression.

"That's where the bloomin' coincidence come in," he said; "it weren't."

C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"Miss ----, the World-renounced Teacher of Dancing."--Southern Standard.

Another victim of the War.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO TOWSER.

  No pampered pound of peevish fluff
  That goggles from a lady's muff
  Art thou, my Towser. In the Park
  Thy form occasions no remark
  Unless it be a friendly call
  From soldiers walking in the Mall,
  Or the impertinence of pugs
  Stretched at their ease on carriage rugs.
  For thou art sturdy and thy fur
  Is rougher than the prickly burr,
  Thy manners brusque, thy deep "bow wow"
  (Inherited, but Lord knows how!)
  Far other than the frenzied yaps
  That emanate from ladies' laps,
  Thou art, in fact, of doggy size
  And hast the brown and faithful eyes,
  So full of love, so void of blame,
  That fill a master's heart with shame
  Because he knows he never can
  Be more a dog and less a man.
  No champion of a hundred shows,
  The prey of every draught that blows,
  Art thou; in fact thy charms present
  The earmarks of a mixed descent.
  And, though too proud to start a fight
  With every cur that looms in sight,
  None ever saw thee quail beneath
  A foeman worthy of thy teeth.
  Thou art, in brief, a model hound,
  Not so much beautiful as sound
  In heart and limb; not always strong
  When nose and eyes impel to wrong,
  Nor always doing just as bid,
  But sterling as the minted quid.
  And I have loved thee in my fashion,
  Shared with thy face my frugal ration,
  Squandered my balance at the bank
  When thou didst chew the postman's shank,
  And gone in debt replacing stocks
  Of private cats and Plymouth Rocks.
  And, when they claimed the annual fee
  That seals the bond twixt thee and me,
  Against harsh Circumstance's edge
  Did I not put my fob in pledge
  And cheat the minions of excise
  Who otherwise had ta'en thee prize?
  And thou with leaps of lightsome mood
  Didst bark eternal gratitude
  And seek my feelings to assail
  With agitations of the tail.
  Yet are there beings lost to grace
  Who claim that thou art out of place,
  That when the dogs of war are loose
  Domestic kinds are void of use,
  And that a chicken or a hog
  Should take the place of every dog,
  Which, though with appetite endued,
  Is not itself a source of food.
  What! shall we part? Nay, rather we'll
  Renounce the cheap but wholesome meal
  That men begrudge us, and we'll take
  Our leave of bones and puppy cake.
  Back to the woods we'll hie, and there
  Thou'lt hunt the fleet but fearful hare,
  Pursue the hedge's prickly pig,
  Dine upon rabbits' eggs and dig
  With practised paw and eager snuffle
  The shy but oh! so toothsome truffle.
                  ALGOL.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A landslide in Monmouthshire threatens to close the natural course of
    the River Ebbw, seriously interfering with its ffllww."--Star.

It certainly sounds rather diverting.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a list of gramophone records:--

    "Nothing could seem easier in the wide world than the emission of the
    cascade of notes that falls from the mouth of the horn--which might
    indeed be Tetrazzini's own mouth."

"The diameter of my own gramophone horn is eighteen inches," writes the sender of the extract.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TAXIS AND TALK.

Conversation in the streets of London has never been easy; not, at any rate, until the small
hours, when the best of it is done. But it becomes even more complex when one of the talkers
is pressed for time and wants a taxi, and disengaged taxis are as rare as new jokes in a revue.

Let the following dialogue prove it. I leave open the question whether or not I have reported
the real terms of our conversation, merely reminding you that two men together, removed from
the frivolity of women, tend, even in the street and when the thermometer is below freezing-point,
to a high seriousness rare when the sexes are mingled.

Imagine us facing a wind from the east composed of steel filings and all uncharity. We are
somewhere in Chelsea, and for some reason or other, or none at all, I am accompanying him.

He (looking at his watch). I've got to be at Grosvenor Gardens by half-past one and there's
not a taxi anywhere. We must walk fast and perhaps we'll meet one. Dash this War anyhow. (He
said, as a matter of fact, "damn," but I am getting so tired of that word, in print that I
shall employ alternatives every time. Someone really must institute a close season for "damns"
or they won't any longer be funny on the stage; and, since to laugh in theatres has become
a national duty, that, in the present state of the wit market, would be privation indeed.)

I (submerged by brain wave). Perhaps we'll meet one.

He. Keep a sharp look out, won't you? I 've got to be there by half-past one, and I hate to
be late.

I. Those tailors you were asking me about--I think you'll find them very decent people. They----

He (excitedly). Here comes one. Hi! Hi!

    [A taxi, obviously full of people, approaches and passes, the driver
    casting a pitying glance at my poor signalling friend.

He. I thought it was free.

I. The flag was down.

He. I couldn't be sure. What were you saying? Sorry.

I. Oh, only about those tailors. If you really want to change, you know, I could----

He. Do you mind walking a little faster?

I (mendaciously). Not at all. I could give you my card, don't you know. But of course you might
not like them. Tastes differ. To me they seem to be first-rate, as tailors go.

He (profoundly--though he is not more profound than I am). Of course, as tailors go.

I. They 're best at----

He (excited again). Here's another. Hi! Hi! Taxi. No, it's engaged.

I (with a kind impulse). If you'll ask me, I'll tell you whether the flags are up or not. I
think I must be able to see farther than you.

He. Do.

I. I was always rather famous for long sight. It's----

He (turning round)). Isn't that one behind us? Is that free?

I. I can't tell yet.

He. Surely the flag's up.

    [He steps into the road and waves his stick.

I. It's a private car.

He. Hang the thing! so it is. They ought to be painted white or something. Life is not worth
living just now.

I. They're best for trousers, I should say. Their overcoats----

He (pointing up side-street). Isn't that one there? Hi, taxi! Good heavens, that other fellow's
got it. We really must walk faster. If there isn't one on the rank in Sloane Square, I'm done.
If there's one thing I hate it's being late. Besides, I'm blamed hungry. When I'm hungry I'm
miserable till I eat. No good to anyone.

I. As I was saying----

He. What I want to know is, where are the taxis? They're not on the streets, anyway; then where
are they? One never sees a yard full of them, but they must be somewhere. It's a scandal--a
positive outrage.

I. Their overcoats can be very disappointing. I don't know how it is, but they don't seem to
understand overcoats. But they're so good in other ways, you know, that really if you are thinking----

He. Here's one, really empty. Hi! Hi! Taxi! Hi! Hi!

    [The flag is up but the driver shakes his head, makes a noise which
    sounds like "dinner" and glides serenely on.

He. Well, I'm blamed! Did you ever see anything like it? What's that he said?

I. It sounded like "dinner."

He. Dinner! Of all the something cheek! Dinner! What's the world coming to?

I (brilliantly). Perhaps he's hungry.

He. Hungry! Greedy, you mean. Hansom drivers never refused to take you because they were hungry.
It's monstrous. Bless the War, anyway. (Looking at his watch) I say, we must put a spurt on.
You don't mind, do you?

I (more mendaciously, and wondering why I'm so weak). Oh, no.

    [We both begin to scuttle, half run and half walk.

I (panting). As I was saying, they're not A1 at overcoats, but they've a first-class cutter
for everything else. Just tell me if you want to change and I'll introduce you, and then you'll
get special treatment. There's nothing they wouldn't do for me.

He (breathlessly). Ah! There's the rank. There's just one cab there. How awful if it were to
be taken before he saw us. Run like Heaven.

I (running like Heaven). I think I'll leave you here.

He (running still more like Heaven, a little ahead). Oh no, come on. I want to hear about those
tailors. Hi! Hi! Wave your stick like Heaven!

    [We both wave our sticks like Heaven.

He (subsiding into a walk). Ah! it's all right. He's seen us. (Taking out his watch) I've got
four minutes. We shall just do it. Good-bye.

    [He leaps into the cab and I turn away wondering where I shall get
    lunch.

He (shouting from window). Let me know about those tailors some day; if they're any good, you know.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'The best people are still wearing their own clothes,' said Mr.
    Williams."--Star.

With all respect, Mr. WILLIAMS, the best people are wearing the KING'S.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "DONKEYS.--Wanted to purchase 100 reasonable. Apply M.S."
          Advt. in Colonial Paper.

We have never met this kind of donkey ourselves, but we wish M.S. the best of luck.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"ANTHONY IN WONDERLAND."

It was not till about the middle of the play, and after a narcotic had been administered to
him, that Anthony got there; but we were in Wonderland almost from the start, without the aid
of drugs. For we were asked to believe that Mr. CHARLES HAWTREY was a visionary, amorous of
an ideal which no earthly woman could realise for him. Occasionally he had caught a glimpse
of it in the creations of Art--at the Tate Gallery or Madame TUSSAUD'S or the cinema; but in
Bond Street never.

And the pity of it was that he had come in for a fortune of seven hundred thousand pounds odd,
which would pass elsewhere unless he married by a given date. It was therefore the clear duty
of his relatives--a couple of sisters and their husbands--to find a wife for him. After vainly
trying him with every pretty woman of their acquaintance they had resort, in desperation, to
the black art of a certain Mr. Mortimer John (U.S.A.), an infallible inventor of stunts, who
made a rapid diagnosis of the case and at once pronounced himself confident of success.

Briefly--for it is a long and elaborate story--his scheme is to choose a charming girl, and
make a film drama round her. Anthony, with family, is taken to see the show and occupies the
best box in the Prince of Wales's Theatre, from which, after a little critical comment upon
us in the audience, he falls in love with the heroine. It is the typical film of lurid life
on a Californian ranch, and might almost have been modelled on one of Mr. Punch's cinema burlesques.
There are the familiar scenes of a plot to hang the girl's lover, swiftly alternating with
scenes of her progress on horseback through the primeval forest, and concluding with her arrival
just in time to shoot the villain and untie the noose that encircles her lover's carotid.

On the return of the party from the cinema, Mortimer John describes to Anthony the powers of
a drug which induces the most vivid of dreams. He, John, had once been in Anthony's pitiful
case, and through the services of this drug had achieved his quest of the ideal woman. Anthony,
greatly intrigued, consents to swallow a sample of the potion. It is a simple narcotic, and
under its influence he is conveyed, in a state of coma and a suitable change of apparel, into
the heart of Surrey, where at sunrise he is restored to animation and has the scenes of the
evening's drama re-enacted before his eyes, as originally filmed for exhibition. Under the
impression that this is merely the vivid dream that he had been promised, he himself takes
part in the living drama, playing the noble rôle of an exceptionally white man. In the course
of it he exchanges pledges of eternal love with Aloney the heroine. Finally, in a spasm of
heroic self-sacrifice, he takes poison with the alleged purpose of saving the heroine's life.
We never quite gather how his suicide should serve this end, but then the whole atmosphere
is charged with that obscurity which is the very breath of the film-drama.

The poison is nothing worse than another dose of the narcotic, and under its spell he is spirited
back to London, where, on arrival, he is confronted with the lady of his "dream," and Mortimer
John secures a colossal fee. In addition, for he has had the happy thought of selecting his
own daughter for the heroine, he secures a plutocrat for his son-in-law.

The worst of a play in which one is conducted out of ordinary life into the regions of improbability
by processes of which every step has to be just conceivably possible, is that the conscientious
development of the scheme is apt to be tedious. And, frankly, the first scene or two, though
lightened by expectation, were on the heavy side.

But the film itself, when we got to it, was excellent fooling, and the reconstruction of the
original drama at Dorking-in-the-Wild-West was really delightful. You can easily guess that
Mr. CHARLES HAWTREY, as a cinema hero, very conscious of his heroism ("it's a way we have in
Montague Square"), but always comfortably aware that in a dream, as he imagines it to be, he
can well afford to make the handsomest of sacrifices, had a great chance. And he took it.

As the heroine, who has to play a rather thankless part in the mercenary designs of her parent,
Miss WINIFRED BARNES contrived, very naïvely and prettily, to preserve an air of maiden reluctance
under the most discouraging conditions. As Mortimer John Mr. SYDNEY VALENTINE had admirable
scope for his sound and businesslike methods. Of Anthony's relations, all very natural and
human, Miss LYDIA BILBROOKE was an attractive figure, and the part of Herbert Clatterby, K.C.,
was played by Mr. EDMUND MAURICE with his accustomed ease of manner.

If I wanted to find fault with any detail of the construction, it would be in the matter of
the ring which Anthony places on the finger of Aloney in the cinema play. This was a spontaneous
act not included in the scheme for which Mortimer John was given the credit. Yet as the means
by which Anthony identified her on his return to consciousness it went far to bring that scheme
to fruition. I think also that he ought to have shown some trace of surprise (I should myself)
on finding that he had unconsciously exchanged his spotless evening clothes for the kit of
a broncho-buster.

I have hinted already at the comparative dulness of the long introduction to what is the clou
of the play--the film and its reconstructed scenes. Why not take a further wrinkle from the
cinematic drama and throw upon the screen a succinct résumé of the previous argument? Three
or four minutes of steady application to the text, and we might plunge into the very heart
of things. I throw out this suggestion not with any hope of reward, but in part payment of
my debt for some very joyous laughter.     O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted, Gentlewoman a few days old."      The Lady.

This is much prettier than "Baby taken from birth."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SONG OF THE WOODLAND ELVES.

  We hear the ruthless axes; we watch our rafters fall;
  The seawind blows unhindered where stood our banquet-hall;
  Our grassy rings are trampled, our leafy tents are torn--
  Yet more would we, and gladly, to help the English-born.

  For, leafy-crowned or frosted, the English oaks are ours;
  The beeches are our playrooms, the elms our outlook towers;
  And we were forest rangers before these woods had name,
  And we were elves in England before the Romans came.

  We watched the Druids worship; we watched the wild bulls feed;
  We gave our oaks to ALFRED to build his ships at need;
  And often in the moonlight our pricked ears in the wood
  Have heard the hail of RUFUS, the horn of ROBIN HOOD.

  But if our age-old roof-beams can serve her cause to-day,
  The woodland elves of England will sign their rights away;
  For none but will be woeful to hear the axes ring,
  Yet none but would go homeless to aid an English King.
                  W.H.O.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOOD OLD GOTHIC.

    [An agitation for the total disuse of the Latin character, we learn
    from Press quotations published in The Daily Chronicle, is raging
    through the German Empire, and the Prussian Minister of the Interior
    has forbidden the use of any other character than German Gothic in the
    publications of the Statistical Bureau.]

  The ways of the Hun comprehension elude,
  They're so cleverly crass, so painstakingly crude;
  For, in spite of his cunning and forethought immense,
  He is often incurably stupid and dense
  To the point of allowing his patriot zeal
  To put a large spoke in his own driving-wheel.

  An excellent instance of zeal of this sort
  Is the movement, endorsed by official support,
  To ban Latin type in the papers that flow
  From the press of the Prussian Statistics Bureau.

  Now the pride of the Germans, as dear as their pipe
  And their beer, is their wonderful old Gothic type;
  It makes ev'ry page look as black as your hat,
  For the face of the letters is stodgy and fat;
  It adds to the labour of reading, and tries
  The student's pre-eminent asset, his eyes,
  And in consequence lends a most lucrative aid
  To people engaged in the spectacle trade.
  But these manifest drawbacks to little amount
  When tried by the only criteria that count:
  Though the people who use it don't really need it,
  It exasperates aliens whenever they read it.
  It is solid, echt-Deutsch, free from Frenchified froth,
  And in fine it is Gothic, befitting the Goth.

