Meantime the squaws had pitched the nuptial tent and prepared the bridal ornaments. A large
wigwam, capable of containing all the expected guests, was then constructed, adorned with the
thick branches of evergreens, so artfully contrived as to be capable of concealing the armed
Ojebwas and their allies, who in due time were introduced beneath this leafy screen, armed
with the murderous tomahawk and scalping-knife, with which to spring upon their defenceless
and unsuspecting guests. According to the etiquette always observed upon such occasions, all
deadly weapons were left outside the tent. The bridegroom had been conducted with songs and
dancing to the tent of the bride. The guests, to the number of several hundred naked and painted
warriors, were assembled. The feast was declared to be ready. A great iron pot or kettle occupied
the centre of the tent. According to the custom of the Indians, the father of the bridegroom
was invited to lift the most important dish from the pot, whilst the warriors commenced their
war-dance around him. This dish was usually a bear's head, which was fastened to a string left
for the purpose of raising it from the pot.

"Let the Black Snake, the great chief of the Mohawks, draw up the head and set it on the table,
that his people may eat and make merry, and that his wise heart may be glad," were the scornful
words of the Bald Eagle.

A yell of horror burst from the lips of the horror-stricken father as he lifted to view the
fresh gory head of his only son, the happy bridegroom the lovely daughter of the Ojebwa chief.

"Ha!" shouted the Bald Eagle, "is the great chief of the Mohawks a squaw, that his blood grows
white and his heart trembles at the sight of his son, the bridegroom of the Beam of the Morning?
The Bald Eagle gave neither sigh nor groan when he saw the arrows pierce the heart of his child.
Come, brother, take the knife; taste the flesh and drink the blood of thy son. The Bald Eagle
shrank not when you bade him partake of the feast that was prepared from his young warrior's body."

The wretched father dashed himself upon the earth, while his cries and howlings rent the air.
These cries were answered by the war-whoop of the ambushed Ojebwas, as they sprang to their
feet and with deafening yells attacked the guests, who, panic-stricken, naked and defenceless,
fell an easy prey to their infuriated enemies. Not one living foe escaped to tell the tale
of that fearful marriage feast. A second Judith had the chief's daughter proved. It was her
plighted hand that had severed the head of her unsuspecting bridegroom, to complete the fearful
vengeance that had been devised in return for the merciless and horrible murder of her brother.

Nor was the sacrifice yet finished; for with fearful cries the Indians seized upon the canoes
of their enemies, and with the utmost speed, urged by unsatisfied revenge, hurried down the
lake to an island where the women and children and such of the aged or young men as were not
included among the wedding guests were encamped in unsuspecting security. Panic-stricken, the
Mohawks offered no resistance, but fell like sheep appointed for the slaughter. The Ojebwas
slew there the gray-head with the infant of days. But while the youths and old men tamely yielded
to their enemies, there was one who, her spirit roused to fury by the murder of her father,
armed herself with the war-club and knife, and boldly withstood the successful warriors. At
the door of the tent of the slaughtered chief the Amazon defended her children. While the war
lightning kindled in her dark eyes, she called aloud in scornful tones to her people to hide
themselves in the tents of their women, who alone were braves, and would fight their battles.