X. He is fond of monotonously repeating the accent on the penultimate syllable of trisyllabic
words, as in describing the trial of Jerome of Prague (Ep. I. 11.),--if we are to consider
"quae vellet" as equivalent to a trisyllable:--"deinde loquendi quae vellet facultas daretur";
this most disagreeable monotonous sound, which resembles, more than anything else, the pattering
of a horse's feet when the animal is ambling, and which may, therefore, be called the "tit-up-a-tit-up"
style, I will be bound to say, is not to be found in anybody else's Latin compositions but
Poggio Bracciolini's all the way down from Julius Caesar to Dr. Cumming, --(the famous epistle
of the reverend gentleman's to the Pope in which he endeavoured to procure an invitation from
his Holiness to attend the Oecumenical Council of 1870): there is the dreadful sound again,--in
the first six books of the Annals (II. 17),--just as it strikes the ear in the Letter describing
the trial and death of Jerome of Prague--exactly as many as five times repeated,--when Bracciolini,
(for now we know it is he, and nobody else but he, who wrote the Annals), is giving an account
of the battle between the Cherusei and the Romans: "plerosque tranare Visurgim conantes, injecta";
this sound occurs four times consecutively, in the last part of the Annals, when Bracciolini
is speaking of Curtius Rufus fulfilling by his death the fatal destiny prognosticated to him
by a female apparition of supernatural stature: "defunctus fatale praesagium implevit" (An.
XI. 21). Sometimes this very abominable monotony is accompanied by most horrible assonances,
as in one of his letters (Ep. III. 23) "errorum tuorum certiorem"; --we catch it again, or
something like it, in the last part of the Annals (XIV. 36) in "imbelles inermes cessuros,"
and in the first part: (I. 41) "orant obsistunt, rediret, maneret."

XI. We find in both part of the Annals a very peculiar use of "properus," with the genitive:
in the last part: "Claudium, ut insidiis incautum, ita irae properum" (XI. 26): in the first
part: "libertis et clientibus potentiae apiscendae properis" (IV. 59). This is not to be met
with in the writings of any of the old Romans; it would seem, then, that the Annals was, as
is alleged, a spurious composition of the fifteenth century, and that the same hand wrote both
parts. (An. IV. 32): it is not only a very true observation, but, as far as concerns the use
of "annales" and "scriptura," the exact counterpart of what we read in his "Description of
the Ruins of the City of Rome", ("Ruinarum Urbis Romae Descriptio"), when he observes: "though
you may wade through all the books that are extant and pore over the whole history of human
transactions", he writes: "licet ... omnia scripturarum monumenta pertractes, omnes gestarum
rerum annales scruteris" (Pog. Op. p. 132), where it will be observed that in both sentences
not only "annales" and "scriptura" occur almost together, but the former has the meaning of
"a history" and the latter of "a book," with which significations Tacitus never uses the two
words: indeed Tacitus never uses the two words at all.

The use of "totiens," or its equivalent "toties," is peculiar to the author of the Annals:
it is never found in Tacitus, but frequently in the writings of Bracciolini, as "tuam toties
a me reprehensam credulitatem" (Ep. I. 11):--"toties has fabulas audisti" (ibid):--"toties
... hoc biennio delusus sum in hac re libraria" (Ep. II. 41). So in the Annals: "An Augustum
fessa aetate, toties in Germania potuisse" (II. 46):--"anxia sui et infelici fecunditate fortunae
totiens obnoxia" (II.75): --"totiens irrisa resolutus" (IV. 9), and in other passages. Bracciolini
is so partial to the word that he uses it in its compound as well as simple form, as in one
of his letters to Niccoli: "Multoties scripsi tibi" (Ep. I. 17), and at the beginning of the
second book of the "Convivales," "addubitari, inquam, multotiens" (Op. p. 37).

XII. "Addubitare" is a word which Tacitus never uses, only the author of the Annals, as "paullum
addubitatum, quod Halicarnassii" (IV. 65). So in the "Ruinarum Urbis Romae Descriptio," when
speaking of Marius sitting amid the ruins of Carthage, Bracciolini writes: "admirantem suam
et Carthaginis vicem, simulque fortunam utriusque conferentem, addubitantemque utriusque fortunae
majus spectaculum extitisset" (Op. p. 132).

"Extitere" is a word never used by Tacitus;--or, more properly, he so avoids it that he uses
it but once. Bracciolini, on the contrary, is very much given to the use of it. In the Annals
it is repeatedly met with; in the last part, (take the fifteenth book,) "centurionem extitisse"
(XV. 49), "auriga et histrio et incendiarius extitisti" (ib. 67):--in the first part, "extitisse
tandem viros" (III. 44), "socium delationis extitisse" (IV. 66), and on other occasions. So
it runs throughout the works of Bracciolini, as in his essay on "Avarice": "si amator extiterit
sapientiae" (Op. 20); on "The Unhappiness of Princes," "cogitationesque dominantium extiterunt,"
(Op. 393); on "Nobility," "autorem nobilitatis filiis extitisse (Op. p. 69); on "The Misery
of the Human Condition," splendidissimas in illis civitatibus extitisse (Op. p. 119); in his
Letters, "egenorum praesidium, oppressorem refugium, extitisti" (Ep. III. 17); in his "History
of Florence," "quae verba si execranda, et digna odio extitissent" (Muratori XX. p. 235);--in
fact, in all his productions, whether forged or unforged.

There are, in fact, a number of words, and also phrases, used by Bracciolini that are no where
to be found in any of the works of Tacitus. To illustrate this, we will confine ourselves to
two examples only of each, and to the first part of the Annals and the History of Florence.
To begin with words, and to take "pervastare": in the first part of the Annals: "spatium ferro
flammisque pervastat" (I. 51): the History of Florence (Lib. I) "caede, incendio, rapinis pervastatis"
(Muratori tom. XX. p. 213). "Conficta," in the sense of "fabricated": in the first part of
the Annals: "in tempus conficta" (I. 37): in the History of Florence (Lib. III): "confictis
mendaciis" (ib. p. 254). To pass on to phrases, and to take (a word never used by Tacitus)
"impendium" with "posse": in the first part of the Annals: "impendio diligentiaque poterat"
(IV. 6): in the History of Florence (Lib. V.) "impendio plurimum damni inferre potuissent"
(ib. 320). "Bellum" with "flagrare": in the first part of the Annals: "flagrante adhuc Poenorum
bello" (II. 59): in the History of Florence (Lib. V.): "Gallia omnis bello flagraret Florentinos"
(ib. 320).

XIII. Whenever Tacitus ends a sentence with a polysyllabic word of five syllables he avoids
its repetition at the close of the next sentence. The reverse is the case in the Annals, as,
(take the first book of the last part (XI. 22), "rem militarem comitarentur, --in the sentence
after, "accedentibus provinciarum vectigalibus," --in the sentence after that, "sententia Dolabellae
velut venundaretur"; (or take the first book of the first part (I. 21-2), "eo immitior quia
toleraverat,"--the sentence after, "vagi circumspecta populabantur,"--the sentence after that,
"manipularium parabantur," --where, to be sure, in the last instance a syllable is deficient,
but it is made good by the sonorous sesquipedalian penultimate,-- manipulariam. So in the works
of Bracciolini: "aures tuae recusabantur," in the following sentence, "domi forisque obtemperares,"
in the next sentence, "factorum dictorumque conscientiae" (Op. 313).

XIV. A peculiarity in composition, if not actually proving, at least raising the suspicion,
that the same hand which wrote the last part of the Annals also wrote the first part is observable
in the omission of the preposition in, when rest at a place is denoted;--the omission, it is
to be remarked, is not where there is a single word, but when two words are coupled together,
as in the last six books,--in the description of the Romans bearing on their shoulders statues
of Octavia, which they decorate with flowers and place both in the forum and in their temples:
"Octaviae imagines gestant humeris, spargunt floribus, foroque ac templis statuunt" (XIV. 61);
and in the first six books in the description of servile Romans following Sejanus in crowds
to Campania, and there without distinction of classes lying day and night in the fields and
on the sea shore:--"ibi campo aut litore jacentes, nullo discrimine noctem ac diem" (IV. 74).

Tacitus, in common with all other Roman prose-writers, uses the names of nations (when the
verb implies motion) with a preposition, which is not required with the names of countries.
The Roman poets are not so particular in this respect, Virgil, for instance, writes, after
the Homeric fashion, by the omission of the preposition:

    "At nos hinc alii sitientis ibimus Afros:
    Ecl. I. 65;

for "ad Afros." So after Virgil, whom he is always quoting and imitating, Bracciolini writes
"ipse praecepts Iberos, ad patrium regnum pervadit" (An. XII. 51), for "ad Iberos, in patrium."

It is now, however, time to pass on to other matters more interesting and important, and, it
may be, more convincing.

I. Famianus Strada is very much surprised in his Prolusions (I. 2 Histor.) that it should be
stated in the third book of the Annals (71), that when a gift for the recovery of Livia was
to be presented to Fortune the Equestrian, it had to be made at Antium, where, it is stated,
there was a temple which had that title, there being none in Rome that was so named. Here are
the words of Bracciolini, in his own style, too, and his own history, neither of which is,
nor could be that of Tacitus: "A debate then came on about a matter of religion, as to the
temple in which the offering was to be placed, which the Knights of Rome had promised to present
to Fortune the Equestrian for the health of the Imperial Princess" (a phrase which no Roman
would have used); "for though there were many shrines of that Goddess in Rome, yet there was
none with that name: it was resolved:--'that there be a temple at Antium which has such an
appellation, and that all religious rites in towns in Italy, and temples and statues of Gods
and Goddesses, be under Roman law and rule': consequently, the offering was set up at Antium":
"Incessit dein religio, quonam in templo locandum erat donum, quod pro valetudine Augustae
equites Romani voverant Equestri Fortunae: nam etsi delubra ejus deae multa in urbe, nullum
tamen tali cognomento erat; repertum est, 'aedem esse apud Antium quae sic nuncuparetur, cunctasque
caerimonias Italicis in oppidis, templaque et numinum effigies, juris atque imperii Romani
esse': ita donum apud Antium statuitur" (An. III. 71). This, however, was not the case; for
Famianus Strada says that there was a temple in Rome which had been dedicated to Fortune the
Equestrian for more than 200 years by Quintus Fulvius after the war with the Celtiberians,
when he was Praetor; and, afterwards when he was Censor, he erected a magnificent edifice in
honour of the goddess: the gift and the temple are both mentioned by Livy (XL. 42), also by
Vitruvius, Julius Obsequens, Valerius Maximus, Publius Victor, and other historians and antiquaries.
One cannot then well understand how a fact like this could have been unknown to Tacitus, who
must have been acquainted with all the public buildings in Rome, especially the Temples; though
it is quite easy to conceive how the slip could have been made by a writer of the fifteenth
century: indeed, it would be odd if Bracciolini had not, now and then, fallen into such errors,
which, though trivial in themselves, become mistakes of mighty magnitude in an inquiry of this
description.

II. A writer who could be so ignorant about the temples in Rome is
just the sort of writer who would display ignorance about the
public works in that city. Cognate then with this blunder in the
first part of the Annals is the blunder in the last part about
that ancient right, the enlargement of the pomoerium. We are told
that those only who had extended the bounds of the Empire by the
annexation of countries which they had brought under subjection
were entitled to add also to the City, and that the only two of
all the generals who had exercised this privilege before the time
of Claudius, were Sylla and Augustus. "Pomoerium urbis auxit
Caesar more prisco, quo iis qui protulere imperium, etiam terminos
urbis propagare datur. Nec tamen duces Romani, quamquam magnis
nationibus subactis, usurpaverant, nisi Lucius Sulla et divus
Augustus" (An. XII. 23). Justus Lipsius, at this misstatement, is,
strange to say, quite contented by merely remarking in a merry
mood: "I am not going to defend you, Cornelius: you are wrong: an
enlargement was also made by Julius Caesar, who was 'pitched in'"
("interjectus") "between these two." "Non defendo te, Corneli:
erras: etiani C. Caesar auxit interjectus inter eos duos." Any
critic ought not to be facetiously playful, but seriously startled
and unaccountably puzzled, that Tacitus, or any Roman of his
stamp, should have been ignorant of a fact which must have been
known to all his well informed countrymen, from its having been
borne testimony to by so many eminent writers;--by Cicero in his
Letter to Atticus (I. 13), by Cassius Dio in the 43rd Book of his
History, by Aulus Gellius in his "Noctes Atticae" (XIII. 14), and,
omitting all the antiquaries such as Fulvius and Onuphrius, Mark
Antony in his Funeral Oration over the remains of Caesar, where he
bewails the fate of an Emperor, who had been slain in the City,
the pomoerium of which he had enlarged: [Greek: en tae polei
enedreutheis, ho kai to pomaerion autaes apeuxaesas] (Cas. Dio.
XLIV. 49).
    (Jul. Caesar, Act III. sc. 2)

III. A writer who could entirely overlook such a memorable achievement of Julius Caesar distinctly
shows himself in his incorrectness about the career of such a distinguished member of the Augustan
family as Julia, the wife of Tiberius: she is spoken of as having died in the first year of
the reign of Tiberius, after having been banished by her father for infamous adulteries to
the island of Trimetus, where, deserted by her husband, she must have speedily perished, in
lieu of languishing in exile for twenty years, had she not been supported by the bounty of
"Augusta". "Per idem tempus Julia mortem obiit quam neptem Augustus convictam adulterii damnatus
est, projeceratque haud procul Apulis littoribus. Illic viginti annis exilium toleravit, Augustae
ope sustentata" (An. IV. 71).

IV. A very small brass coin preserved in the National Collection in Paris informs us that Julia
was alive at least three years after that date. So far from having been doomed by her husband
to perish through want, Tiberius held her in such uncommon esteem that he ordered a coin to
be struck in her honour in the fourth year of his reign for the money bears the inscription,
in Greek capitals, [Greek: IOULIA], with the initials, [Greek: LD], signifying in the fourth
year of Tiberius after the death of Augustus.

V. Now let the reader bear in mind that when we find in the Annals a statement so contrary
to what we gather from an old coin, we must set down that statement as a pure figment of history;
for nothing can be so valuable for correct and exact information as coins, which were always
struck among the ancient Romans by public authority, by the decrees of the Senate or the Comitia
Curiata, or by the edicts of the Decuriones (Councils of the Municipal towns or Colonies),
and of the Propraetors or Proconsuls of the Provinces.

VI. A coin of the latter description lays bare another very gross error committed in the first
part of the Annals in making Caius Caecilius Cornutus governor of Paphlagonia in the time of
Tiberius (An. IV. 28): Cornutus must have been a Proconsul of that province in the time of
either Galba or Otho. The coin, which is a large brass one, exhibits, on its obverse side,
Cornutus with a helmet on his head, and underneath [Greek: AMISOU], meaning that he was the
Governor of Paphlagonia, of which "Amisus" was the capital, while on the reverse side are the
words [Greek: EPI GAIOU KAIKILIOU KORNOUTOU]; Rome, sitting upon shields, holds the Roman world
in her right hand Victory stretches forth hers to place a crown on the head of Cornutus, and
beneath is [Greek: ROMAE], which, during the period of the Empire, was inscribed on coins,
but only in the time of Galba and Otho, because Amisus, that is Paphlagonia, was then subject
to Rome, that is, the Senate, under Caius Caecilius Cornutus, as Africa was under Caius Clodius
Mucrinus.

VII. No one would have been more willing than Bracciolini himself to have acknowledged the
ample sufficiency of this argument to prove in the cases of Julia and Cornutus the forgery
of the Annals; for he was himself a great collector of the coins and medals of antiquity, from
which he gained a great deal of his historical information: he must, for example, have had
in his possession, or have seen somewhere one of those medals which antiquaries say were struck
in the time of Nero with a table, a garland, a pot, and the inscription: "Certa: Quinq. Rom.
Co. Se." meaning "Certamen, Quinquennale Romae constituit"; for in the fourteenth book of the
Annals (20) he makes mention of a set of games by the name "Quinquennale Ludricum," and in
the sixteenth (4) by the title "Lustrale Certamnen, though no one has been able to decide,
or even divine, what games these were on account of their exceeding insignificance: his object,
then, in mentioning them, when their chief constituents or principal prizes were a table, a
garland, and a pot, was evidently to impress his reader with his most intimate knowledge of
ancient Roman customs, and leave his reader to infer with certainty that the Annals must have
proceeded from a native Roman; but here it strikes me that he altogether defeated his own purpose;
for if the Annals had been written by Tacitus, that grave historian took such high ground that
he would have deemed it beneath him to notice any such trivial amusements, just as Hume and
Henry, in tracing the history of the people of England, did not descend to make any inquiry
into or mention of the precise time when such popular games were instituted, as the Maypole
or country fairs, horse-racing or football.

