Everybody thought this one of the best enactments of the reign. "What a beautiful thought!"
said they. "All the children in the land rejoicing with their princess! When they are grown
men and women, they will always think of her with pleasure, for she will be associated with
the most delightful memories of their childhood."

It certainly did seem very charming at first. But the day after was harvest-time for the great
physician and his assistants, who kept flying hither and thither post-haste.

Still, every one said it was a good law. It was true the children were not quite so well next
day; but then, what a fine moral effect! and what a pleasant sight it was to see them all thoroughly
happy for at least one day in every year!

Now, just after the fourteenth birthday had been celebrated, Aigew was called in to see to
the princess. He gave her a little medicine, which she took in the prettiest way, without jelly.

"That's a nice, good girl," said the grave doctor. "I have offered you no birthday gift as
yet; but it is in my power to give you anything you wish. Say--what shall it be, sweet princess?"

"It is enough to give me your kind care," answered the princess. "Everything else I have. The
best part of all to me was the enjoyment of the other children. Ah! how I wish I could have
a birthday whenever I choose!"

"Even that," said the doctor, "is possible," as he took something from his bosom, smiling curiously
to himself as he did so. "I give you this little casket upon two conditions," said he. "One
is that you are never to mention the circumstance to a living soul; you are not even to speak
of it to me. The other I will tell you after I have explained the nature of the gift. Inside
this box are eighty crystal figures; each one represents a birthday, and lies, as you see,
in a separate compartment. Begin at the right hand, and whenever you wish to have a birthday,
you have only to place one of these in your little mouth, and it is here."

The princess, trembling and faint from a strange perfume in the air, took the box in her hand.

"But the other condition?"

"It is merely this: that no one but yourself ever tastes the contents of the magical box. If
any one should, the worst consequences would follow; and, among others, all these birthdays,
with all that they have occasioned and all the presents that have been given in their honor,
will pass away and become as nothing. Remember this." And he was gone.

The princess examined her singular present with the most intense interest. It looked wonderfully
like a pill-box; but inside, lying in the tiniest compartments, were marvelously small and
beautiful figures exactly like herself in miniature, except that, beginning at the right, each
one was a little older in appearance than the one preceding.

The next morning, before the rising of the sun, the little princess lay awake, with the casket
in her hand.

"Shall I? or shall I not?" said she. "I think I shall."

And the first figure from the right melted on her lips. The taste was sweet; but that was soon
forgotten in her surprise at the unusual bustle which sprang up immediately in the city. Cannons
were firing; the populace was shouting, "Long live the princess!" and great vans came thundering
up to the entrance, laden with gifts. Yes, it was all true; she might have a birthday whenever
she chose. It passed off like the fourteen that had gone before. On the morrow, another was
celebrated; another, after the interval of one day; and another in a week from that; so that
the whole kingdom was kept in a continual uproar of festivity.

Dr. Aigew sent to his own country for many more learned doctors and chemists. He built great
laboratories, where, all day and all night, pills and draughts and mixtures (of which I hope
never even to know the names) were zealously compounded. The huge chimneys sent forth black
clouds of physic-laden smoke, which began to hang like a pall over the city. The fields, once
yellow with corn, were now only cultivated for the production of rhubarb and senna and camomile.
The children of the nation grew as yellow and bilious as Aigew himself. All the wealth of the
island was pouring into the coffers of the doctor. There were no shops open but those of chemists
and confectioners. No other trade had an opportunity to flourish. The country was plainly going
to ruin.

The old king saw but one way to save his people. He must send his daughter away. This made
him very sad, for he loved her dearly, and could not bear to have her know the truth.

"What shall I do?" he asked the queen.

"It is quite plain," answered she. "Marry her."

This was easily done. The fame of her beauty and gentleness had reached other lands; and a
marriage was soon arranged between the little princess and a handsome young prince, who was
the son and heir of a neighboring king.

In due time, the prince with his retinue started, in much pomp and magnificence, to visit the
bride; and he made such good speed, in his impatience, that he arrived in the island several
days before the time appointed. Within the city gates, the cavalcade halted for a moment that
the prince might rest.

"I am very weary," said he to the chamberlain. "Call the first gentleman-in-waiting, and ask
him to tell the page to tell the butler to send a servant with some wine. Or, stay! I'd like
to taste the national beverage, whatever it may be."

So the chamberlain told the first gentleman-in-waiting to tell the page to tell the butler
to tell a servant to ask some one for the national beverage. The servant returned from a confectioner's
shop, and told the butler, who told the page, who told the first gentleman-in-waiting, who
told the chamberlain, that the people generally drank lemonade, but, on account of the celebration
of the princess's birthday, none was to be had.

"There is some mistake!" cried the prince, who was tired and a little cross, and very thirsty;
"there is some mistake! The princess's birthday will be the day after to-morrow, the date for
which we were invited. Go and find out the meaning of this riddle."

Soon the chamberlain returned, bringing the confectioner with him.

"My lord," says he, "this man tells so strange a story, that I have brought him here lest you
should suspect me of falsehood. He declares that he has furnished confections, creams, and
fruits for the princess's birthday, forty-one distinct individual times."

"It is the truth, my lord," said the confectioner.

"It cannot be!" gasped the prince. "Make further inquiries. Tell the chamberlain to tell the
gentleman-in-waiting to tell the page to tell the--ah! I am deathly faint. Forty-one, and I
but twenty last month!"

Voices were heard and approaching footsteps. The chamberlain had brought six reverend men,
dignitaries of the town, all of whom testified that on forty-one several occasions the birthday
of the princess had been celebrated.

"It is enough! In fact, too much!" cried the prince. "We return immediately. This insult shall
not pass unavenged."

So all the horses turned their heads where their tails had been; the musicians changed their
tune from "See, the conquering hero comes" to "Take me home to die;" and the prince returned
whence he came.

The king, his father, was not so wroth as the prince had expected.

"I have been wrong," said he. "The prince is 'O'er young to marry yet,' while I have been a
widower for many years, and perhaps should marry first and set him an example. If the match
proves unfortunate, I shall not have so long to endure it, from the difference in our ages.
From my experience, he may learn wisdom. Yes, like a true father, I will sacrifice myself.
It is I who shall marry the lady. You say she is fair and gentle, and only forty-one? I will
sacrifice myself."

The other king and his court were much surprised when the news came that the prince repudiated
all thoughts of the marriage, and that the father proposed to take his place as bridegroom.
They were at first disposed to be indignant; but then something had to be done, or the kingdom
would soon be ruined. And besides, the king was already on his way; he was known to be of a
fiery temper; he had at his command a large and powerful standing army; and if he chose to
make war, there was no possibility of resisting him, for the soldiers of the island had turned
their swords into plowshares, and were engaged in raising senna.

The princess, as you may imagine, was not pleased with this change of bridegrooms; but, used
to obedience, she acquiesced in everything, and told no one of the bitter tears she nightly
shed upon her pillow. She tried to be as cheerful as possible in presence of her parents, and
diverted her mind by having continual birthdays.

The bridegroom king halted at the gates of the town, with great dignity. He, too, arrived on
a different day from the one appointed. It was a week later, at least. Age (the king was sixty,
if he was a day) travels with more care and deliberation than hot-headed youth.

While waiting for the gates to be opened, the king could not forbear smiling at the horror
of the young man when told of his bride's age.

"Forty-one is not so old," thought he. "Perhaps this is the very confectioner's where they
furnished the information, but could not furnish any refreshment."

Turning to an attendant, he gave the order:

"Bring me from yonder house a draught of whatever is mostly used in the city."

It was not the confectioner's house, as he supposed, to which he pointed, but one of Aigew's
laboratories. His majesty's commands were carried thither; and the chemist, gray and wizen,
came forth, bearing a goblet filled with a dark liquid of peculiar odor. He bowed his knee,
and held it toward the king, who took it in his hand, sniffed his royal nose suspiciously,
and said:

"It has a disagreeable smell! What is it called?"

"Rhubarb and senna, your majesty; it is the only drink taken the day after the princess's birthday.
Merry-making and feasting, when indulged in too freely, are necessarily followed by physic
and fasting."

"I'll none of it," cried the king. "The princess's birthday! I thought her birthday had passed
weeks ago."

"Of that I know nothing," replied the chemist. "I only know that yesterday we celebrated her
seventy-second birthday. I am an old man, as your majesty sees, and not likely to tell that
which is false."

The king was purple with rage. He said but the one word "Home!" In a few moments, he and his
retinue had turned their backs, and they speedily disappeared behind the hills. There was only
left a cloud of dust, and an occasional strain of "The girl I left behind me," borne back upon
the wind from the distance.

This last blow fell heavily on the father of the princess. He flew into a rage; he had had
too much of birthdays and bridegrooms, and determined he would be a party to no more of either.

"Get you gone to a convent!" he cried to his weeping, frightened daughter. "Don apparel suitable
to your years, and offend my sight no more!"

They placed upon the princess's yellow curls a beldame's cap, robed her in a plain gown of
black, and made ready to take her away.

"I cannot understand," thought she, "the cause of the misfortunes that have befallen me and
all the world. Can it be Dr. Aigew's casket?" She took it from her bosom.

"I fear me I shall want no birthdays in the convent," said she, sadly. "So there, little birds,
take what is left."

As she strewed the sugary mites, the little birds caught them up and flew away.

A sudden earthquake convulsed the land, a violent hurricane swept over it. During these changes
of nature, everything that had been affected by the unnatural birthdays returned to its former
state. All remembrance even, connected with them ever so remotely, was wiped from the memory
of man.

I am not sure, but I think the prince did afterward visit the island, and was much impressed
by its quiet, sylvan life and the incomparable beauty of the princess; and they do say----

UNDER THE LILACS

BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT.

CHAPTER XVI.

DETECTIVE THORNTON.

A few days later, Miss Celia was able to go about with her arm in a sling, pale still, and
rather stiff, but so much better than any one had expected, that all agreed Mr. Paine was right
in pronouncing Dr. Mills "a master hand with broken bones." Two devoted little maids waited
on her, two eager pages stood ready to run her errands, and friendly neighbors sent in delicacies
enough to keep these four young persons busily employed in disposing of them.

Every afternoon the great bamboo lounging chair was brought out and the interesting invalid
conducted to it by stout Randa, who was head nurse, and followed by a train of shawl, cushion,
foot-stool, and book bearers, who buzzed about like swarming bees round a new queen. When all
were settled, the little maids sewed and the pages read aloud, with much conversation by the
way; for one of the rules was, that all should listen attentively, and if any one did not understand
what was read, he or she should ask to have it explained on the spot. Whoever could answer
these questions was invited to do so, and at the end of the reading Miss Celia could ask any
she liked, or add any explanations which seemed necessary. In this way much pleasure and profit
was extracted from the tales Ben and Thorny read, and much unexpected knowledge as well as
ignorance displayed, not to mention piles of neatly hemmed towels for which Bab and Betty were
paid like regular sewing-women.

So vacation was not all play, and the little girls found their picnics, berry parties, and
"goin' a visitin'," all the more agreeable for the quiet hour spent with Miss Celia. Thorny
had improved wonderfully, and was getting to be quite energetic, especially since his sister's
accident; for while she was laid up he was the head of the house, and much enjoyed his promotion.
But Ben did not seem to flourish as he had done at first. The loss of Sancho preyed upon him
sadly, and the longing to go and find his dog grew into such a strong temptation that he could
hardly resist it. He said little about it; but now and then a word escaped him which might
have enlightened any one who chanced to be watching him. No one was, just then, so he brooded
over this fancy, day by day, in silence and solitude, for there was no riding and driving now.
Thorny was busy with his sister trying to show her that he remembered how good she had been
to him when he was ill, and the little girls had their own affairs.

Miss Celia was the first to observe the change, having nothing to do but lie on a sofa and
amuse herself by seeing others work or play. Ben was bright enough at the readings, because
then he forgot his troubles; but when they were over and his various duties done, he went to
his own room or sought consolation with Lita, being sober and quiet, and quite unlike the merry
monkey all knew and liked so well.

"Thorny, what is the matter with Ben?" asked Miss Celia, one day, when she and her brother
were alone in the "green parlor," as they called the lilac-tree walk.

"Fretting about Sanch, I suppose. I declare I wish that dog had never been born! Losing him
has just spoilt Ben. Not a bit of fun left in him, and he wont have anything I offer to cheer
him up."

Thorny spoke impatiently, and knit his brows over the pressed flowers he was neatly gumming
into his herbal.

"I wonder if he has anything on his mind? He acts as if he was hiding a trouble he didn't dare
to tell. Have you talked with him about it?" asked Miss Celia, looking as if she was hiding
a trouble she did not like to tell.

"Oh, yes, I poke him up now and then, but he gets peppery, so I let him alone. May be he's
longing for his old circus again. Shouldn't blame him much if he was; it isn't very lively
here, and he's used to excitement, you know."

"I hope it isn't that. Do you think he would slip away without telling us, and go back to the
old life again?"

"Don't believe he would. Ben isn't a bit of a sneak, that's why I like him."

"Have you ever found him sly or untrue in any way?" asked Miss Celia, lowering her voice.

"No; he's as fair and square a fellow as I ever saw. Little bit low, now and then, but he doesn't
mean it, and wants to be a gentleman, only he never lived with one before, and it's all new
to him. I'll get him polished up after a while."

"Oh, Thorny, there are three peacocks on the place, and you are the finest!" laughed Miss Celia,
as her brother spoke in his most condescending way with a lift of the eyebrows very droll to see.

"And two donkeys, and Ben's the biggest, not to know when he is well off and be happy!" retorted
the "gentleman," slapping a dried specimen on the page as if he were pounding discontented Ben.

"Come here and let me tell you something which worries me. I would not breathe it to another
soul, but I feel rather helpless, and I dare say you can manage the matter better than I."

Looking much mystified, Thorny went and sat on the stool at his sister's feet, while she whispered
confidentially in his ear: "I've lost some money out of my drawer, and I'm so afraid Ben took it."

"But it's always locked up and you keep the keys of the drawer and the little room?"

"It is gone, nevertheless, and I've had my keys safe all the time."

"But why think it is he any more than Randa, or Katy, or me?"

"Because I trust you three as I do myself. I've known the girls for years, and you have no
object in taking it since all I have is yours, dear."

"And all mine is yours, of course. But, Celia, how could he do it? He can't pick locks, I know,
for we fussed over my desk together, and had to break it after all."

"I never really thought it possible till to-day when you were playing ball and it went in at
the upper window, and Ben climbed up the porch after it; you remember you said, 'If it had
gone in at the garret gable you couldn't have done that so well;' and he answered, 'Yes, I
could, there isn't a spout I can't shin up, or a bit of this roof I haven't been over.'"

"So he did; but there is no spout near the little room window."

"There is a tree, and such an agile boy as Ben could swing in and out easily. Now, Thorny,
I hate to think this of him, but it has happened twice, and for his own sake I must stop it.
If he is planning to run away, money is a good thing to have. And he may feel that it is his
own; for you know he asked me to put his wages in the bank, and I did. He may not like to come
to me for that, because he can give no good reason for wanting it. I'm so troubled I really
don't know what to do."

She looked troubled, and Thorny put his arms about her as if to keep all worries but his own
away from her.

"Don't you fret, Cely, dear; you leave it to me. I'll fix him--ungrateful little scamp!"

"That is not the way to begin. I'm afraid you will make him angry and hurt his feelings, and
then we can do nothing."

"Bother his feelings! I shall just say, calmly and coolly: 'Now, look here, Ben, hand over
the money you took out of my sister's drawer, and we'll let you off easy,' or something like that."

"It wouldn't do, Thorny; his temper would be up in a minute, and away he would go before we
could find out whether he was guilty or not. I wish I knew how to manage."

"Let me think," and Thorny leaned his chin on the arm of the chair, staring hard at the knocker
as if he expected the lion's mouth to open with words of counsel then and there.

"By Jove, I do believe Ben took it!" he broke out suddenly; "for when I went to his room this
morning to see why he didn't come and do my boots, he shut the drawer in his bureau as quick
as a flash, and looked red and queer, for I didn't knock, and sort of startled him."

"He wouldn't be likely to put stolen money there. Ben is too wise for that."

"He wouldn't keep it there, but he might be looking at it and pitch it in when I called. He's
hardly spoken to me since, and when I asked him what his flag was at half-mast for, he wouldn't
answer. Besides, you know in the reading this afternoon he didn't listen, and when you asked
what he was thinking about, he colored up and muttered something about Sanch. I tell you, Celia,
it looks bad--very bad," and Thorny shook his head with a wise air.

"It does, and yet we may be all wrong. Let us wait a little and give the poor boy a chance
to clear himself before we speak. I'd rather lose my money than suspect him falsely."

"How much was it?"

"Eleven dollars; a one went first, and I supposed I'd miscalculated somewhere when I took some
out; but when I missed a ten, I felt that I ought not to let it pass."

"Look here, sister, you just put the case into my hands and let me work it up. I wont say anything
to Ben till you give the word; but I'll watch him, and now my eyes are open, it wont be easy
to deceive me."

Thorny was evidently pleased with the new play of detective, and intended to distinguish himself
in that line; but when Miss Celia asked how he meant to begin, he could only respond with a
blank expression: "Don't know! You give me the keys and leave a bill or two in the drawer,
and may be I can find him out somehow."

So the keys were given, and the little dressing-room where the old secretary stood was closely
watched for a day or two. Ben cheered up a trifle, which looked as if he knew an eye was upon
him, but otherwise he went on as usual, and Miss Celia, feeling a little guilty at even harboring
a suspicion of him, was kind and patient with his moods.

Thorny was very funny in the unnecessary mystery and fuss he made; his affectation of careless
indifference to Ben's movements and his clumsy attempts to watch every one of them; his dodgings
up and down stairs, ostentatious clanking of keys, and the elaborate traps he set to catch
his thief, such as throwing his ball in at the dressing-room window and sending Ben up the
tree to get it, which he did, thereby proving beyond a doubt that he alone could have taken
the money, Thorny thought. Another deep discovery was, that the old drawer was so shrunken
that the lock could be pressed down by slipping a knife-blade between the hasp and socket.

"Now it is as clear as day, and you'd better let me speak," he said, full of pride as well
as regret, at this triumphant success of his first attempt as a detective.

"Not yet, and you need do nothing more. I'm afraid it was a mistake of mine to let you do this;
and if it has spoiled your friendship with Ben, I shall be very sorry; for I do not think he
is guilty," answered Miss Celia.

"Why not?" and Thorny looked annoyed.

"I've watched also, and he doesn't act like a deceitful boy. To-day I asked him if he wanted
any money, or should I put what I owe him with the rest, and he looked me straight in the face
with such honest, grateful eyes, I could not doubt him when he said: 'Keep it, please, I don't
need anything here, you are all so good to me.'"

"Now, Celia, don't you be soft-hearted. He's a sly little dog, and knows my eye is on him.
When I asked him what he saw in the dressing-room, after he brought out the ball, and looked
sharply at him, he laughed, and said: 'Only a mouse,' as saucy as you please."

