At last, though still uncertain in his mind, he turned his steps towards the small but elegant
mansion on the river-side which had belonged for centuries to his royal family. The arms of
Bohemia are deeply graved over the door and upon the tall chimneys; passengers have a look
into a green court set with the most costly flowers; and a stork, the only one in Paris, perches
on the gable all day long and keeps a crowd before the house. Grave servants are seen passing
to and fro within; and from time to time the great gate is thrown open and a carriage rolls
below the arch. For many reasons this residence was especially dear to the heart of Prince
Florizel; he never drew near to it without enjoying that sentiment of home-coming so rare in
the lives of the great; and on the present evening he beheld its tall roof and mildly illuminated
windows with unfeigned relief and satisfaction.

As he was approaching the postern door by which he always entered when alone, a man stepped
forth from the shadow and presented himself with an obeisance in the Prince's path.

"I have the honour of addressing Prince Florizel of Bohemia?" said he.

"Such is my title," replied the Prince. "What do you want with me?"

"I am," said the man, "a detective, and I have to present your Highness with this billet from
the Prefect of Police."

The Prince took the letter and glanced it through by the light of the street lamp. It was highly
apologetic, but requested him to follow the bearer to the Prefecture without delay.

"In short," said Florizel, "I am arrested."

"Your Highness," replied the officer, "nothing, I am certain, could be further from the intention
of the Prefect. You will observe that he has not granted a warrant. It is mere formality, or
call it, if you prefer, an obligation that your Highness lays on the authorities."

"At the same time," asked the Prince, "if I were to refuse to follow you?"

"I will not conceal from your Highness that a considerable discretion has been granted me,"
replied the detective, with a bow.

"Upon my word," cried Florizel, "your effrontery astounds me! Yourself, as an agent, I must
pardon; but your superiors shall dearly smart for their misconduct. What, have you any idea,
is the cause of this impolitic and unconstitutional act? You will observe that I have as yet
neither refused nor consented, and much may depend on your prompt and ingenuous answer. Let
me remind you, officer, that this is an affair of some gravity."

"Your Highness," said the detective humbly, "General Vandeleur and his brother have had the
incredible presumption to accuse you of theft. The famous diamond, they declare, is in your
hands. A word from you in denial will most amply satisfy the Prefect; nay, I go further: if
your Highness would so far honour a subaltern as to declare his ignorance of the matter even
to myself, I should ask permission to retire upon the spot."

Florizel, up to the last moment, had regarded his adventure in the light of a trifle, only
serious upon international considerations. At the name of Vandeleur the horrible truth broke
upon him in a moment; he was not only arrested, but he was guilty. This was not only an annoying
incident--it was a peril to his honour. What was he to say? What was he to do? The Rajah's
Diamond was indeed an accursed stone; and it seemed as if he were to be the last victim to
its influence.

One thing was certain. He could not give the required assurance to the detective. He must gain
time.

His hesitation had not lasted a second.

"Be it so," said he, "let us walk together to the Prefecture."

The man once more bowed, and proceeded to follow Florizel at a respectful distance in the rear.

"Approach," said the Prince. "I am in a humour to talk, and, if I mistake not, now I look at
you again, this is not the first time that we have met."

"I count it an honour," replied the officer, "that your Highness should recollect my face.
It is eight years since I had the pleasure of an interview."

"To remember faces," returned Florizel, "is as much a part of my profession as it is of yours.
Indeed, rightly looked upon, a Prince and a detective serve in the same corps. We are both
combatants against crime; only mine is the more lucrative and yours the more dangerous rank,
and there is a sense in which both may be made equally honourable to a good man. I had rather,
strange as you may think it, be a detective of character and parts than a weak and ignoble
sovereign."

The officer was overwhelmed.

"Your Highness returns good for evil," said he. "To an act of presumption he replies by the
most amiable condescension."

"How do you know," replied Florizel, "that I am not seeking to corrupt you?"

"Heaven preserve me from the temptation!" cried the detective.

"I applaud your answer," returned the Prince. "It is that of a wise and honest man. The world
is a great place, and stocked with wealth and beauty, and there is no limit to the rewards
that may be offered. Such an one who would refuse a million of money may sell his honour for
an empire or the love of a woman; and I myself, who speak to you, have seen occasions so tempting,
provocations so irresistible to the strength of human virtue, that I have been glad to tread
in your steps and recommend myself to the grace of God. It is thus, thanks to that modest and
becoming habit alone," he added, "that you and I can walk this town together with untarnished
hearts."

"I had always heard that you were brave," replied the officer, "but I was not aware that you
were wise and pious. You speak the truth, and you speak it with an accent that moves me to
the heart. This world is indeed a place of trial."

"We are now," said Florizel, "in the middle of the bridge. Lean your elbows on the parapet
and look over. As the water rushing below, so the passions and complications of life carry
away the honesty of weak men. Let me tell you a story."

"I receive your Highness's commands," replied the man.

And, imitating the Prince, he leaned against the parapet, and disposed himself to listen. The
city was already sunk in slumber; had it not been for the infinity of lights and the outline
of buildings on the starry sky, they might have been alone beside some country river.

"An officer," began Prince Florizel, "a man of courage and conduct, who had already risen by
merit to an eminent rank, and won not only admiration but respect, visited, in an unfortunate
hour for his peace of mind, the collections of an Indian Prince. Here he beheld a diamond so
extraordinary for size and beauty that from that instant he had only one desire in life: honour,
reputation, friendship, the love of country--he was ready to sacrifice all for this lump of
sparkling crystal. For three years he served this semi-barbarian potentate as Jacob served
Laban; he falsified frontiers, he connived at murders, he unjustly condemned and executed a
brother-officer who had the misfortune to displease the Rajah by some honest freedoms; lastly,
at a time of great danger to his native land, he betrayed a body of his fellow-soldiers, and
suffered them to be defeated and massacred by thousands. In the end he had amassed a magnificent
fortune, and brought home with him the coveted diamond.

"Years passed," continued the Prince, "and at length the diamond is accidentally lost. It falls
into the hands of a simple and laborious youth, a student, a minister of God, just entering
on a career of usefulness and even distinction. Upon him also the spell is cast; he deserts
everything, his holy calling, his studies, and flees with the gem into a foreign country. The
officer has a brother, an astute, daring, unscrupulous man, who learns the clergyman's secret.
What does he do? Tell his brother, inform the police? No; upon this man also the Satanic charm
has fallen; he must have the stone for himself. At the risk of murder, he drugs the young priest
and seizes the prey. And now, by an accident which is not important to my moral, the jewel
passes out of his custody into that of another, who, terrified at what he sees, gives it into
the keeping of a man in high station and above reproach.

"The officer's name is Thomas Vandeleur," continued Florizel. "The stone is called the Rajah's
Diamond. And"--suddenly opening his hand--"you behold it here before your eyes."

The officer started back with a cry.

"We have spoken of corruption," said the Prince. "To me this nugget of bright crystal is as
loathsome as though it were crawling with the worms of death; it is as shocking as though it
were compacted out of innocent blood. I see it here in my hand, and I know it is shining with
hell-fire. I have told you but a hundredth part of its story; what passed in former ages, to
what crimes and treacheries it incited men of yore, the imagination trembles to conceive; for
years and years it has faithfully served the powers of hell; enough, I say, of blood, enough
of disgrace, enough of broken lives and friendships; all things come to an end, the evil like
the good; pestilence as well as beautiful music; and as for this diamond, God forgive me if
I do wrong, but its empire ends to-night."

The Prince made a sudden movement with his hand, and the jewel, describing an arc of light,
dived with a splash into the flowing river.

"Amen," said Florizel, with gravity. "I have slain a cockatrice!"

"God pardon me!" cried the detective. "What have you done? I am a ruined man."

"I think," returned the Prince, with a smile, "that many well-to-do people in this city might
envy you your ruin."

"Alas! your Highness!" said the officer, "and you corrupt me after all?"

"It seems there was no help for it," replied Florizel.--"And now let us go forward to the Prefecture."

Not long after, the marriage of Francis Scrymgeour and Miss Vandeleur was celebrated in great
privacy; and the Prince acted on that occasion as groom's man. The two Vandeleurs surprised
some rumour of what had happened to the diamond; and their vast diving operations on the River
Seine are the wonder and amusement of the idle. It is true that through some miscalculation
they have chosen the wrong branch of the river. As for the Prince, that sublime person, having
now served his turn, may go, along with the Arabian Author, topsy-turvy into space. But if
the reader insists on more specific information, I am happy to say that a recent revolution
hurled him from the throne of Bohemia, in consequence of his continued absence and edifying
neglect of public business; and that his Highness now keeps a cigar store in Rupert Street,
much frequented by other foreign refugees. I go there from time to time to smoke and have a
chat, and find him as great a creature as in the days of his prosperity; he has an Olympian
air behind the counter; and although a sedentary life is beginning to tell upon his waistcoat,
he is probably, take him for all in all, the handsomest tobacconist in London.

THE PAVILION ON THE LINKS

CHAPTER I

TELLS HOW I CAMPED IN GRADEN SEA-WOOD, AND BEHELD A LIGHT IN THE PAVILION

I was a great solitary when I was young. I made it my pride to keep aloof and suffice for my
own entertainment; and I may say that I had neither friends nor acquaintances until I met that
friend who became my wife and the mother of my children. With one man only was I on private
terms: this was R. Northmour, Esquire, of Graden-Easter, in Scotland. We had met at college;
and though there was not much liking between us, nor even much intimacy, we were so nearly
of a humour that we could associate with ease to both. Misanthropes we believed ourselves to
be; but I have thought since that we were only sulky fellows. It was scarcely a companionship,
but a co-existence in unsociability. Northmour's exceptional violence of temper made it no
easy affair for him to keep the peace with any one but me; and as he respected my silent ways,
and let me come and go as I pleased, I could tolerate his presence without concern. I think
we called each other friends.

When Northmour took his degree and I decided to leave the University without one, he invited
me on a long visit to Graden-Easter; and it was thus that I first became acquainted with the
scene of my adventures. The mansion-house of Graden stood in a bleak stretch of country some
three miles from the shore of the German Ocean. It was as large as a barrack; and as it had
been built of a soft stone, liable to consume in the eager air of the seaside, it was damp
and draughty within and half-ruinous without. It was impossible for two young men to lodge
with comfort in such a dwelling. But there stood in the northern part of the estate, in a wilderness
of links and blowing sand-hills, and between a plantation and the sea, a small Pavilion or
Belvidere, of modern design, which was exactly suited to our wants; and in this hermitage,
speaking little, reading much, and rarely associating except at meals, Northmour and I spent
four tempestuous winter months. I might have stayed longer; but one March night there sprang
up between us a dispute, which rendered my departure necessary. Northmour spoke hotly, I remember,
and I suppose I must have made some tart rejoinder. He leaped from his chair and grappled me;
I had to fight, without exaggeration, for my life; and it was only with a great effort that
I mastered him, for he was near as strong in body as myself, and seemed filled with the devil.
The next morning we met on our usual terms; but I judged it more delicate to withdraw; nor
did he attempt to dissuade me.

It was nine years before I revisited the neighbourhood. I travelled at that time with a tilt-cart,
a tent, and a cooking-stove, tramping all day beside the waggon, and at night, whenever it
was possible, gipsying in a cove of the hills, or by the side of a wood. I believe I visited
in this manner most of the wild and desolate regions both in England and Scotland; and, as
I had neither friends nor relations, I was troubled with no correspondence, and had nothing
in the nature of headquarters, unless it was the office of my solicitors, from whom I drew
my income twice a year. It was a life in which I delighted; and I fully thought to have grown
old upon the march, and at last died in a ditch.

It was my whole business to find desolate corners, where I could camp without the fear of interruption;
and hence, being in another part of the same shire, I bethought me suddenly of the Pavilion
on the Links. No thoroughfare passed within three miles of it. The nearest town, and that was
but a fisher village, was at a distance of six or seven. For ten miles of length, and from
a depth varying from three miles to half a mile, this belt of barren country lay along the
sea. The beach, which was the natural approach, was full of quicksands. Indeed, I may say there
is hardly a better place of concealment in the United Kingdom. I determined to pass a week
in the Sea-Wood of Graden-Easter, and making a long stage, reached it about sundown on a wild
September day.

The country, I have said, was mixed sand-hill and links; links being a Scottish name for sand
which has ceased drifting and become more or less solidly covered with turf. The pavilion stood
on an even space; a little behind it, the wood began in a hedge of elders huddled together
by the wind; in front, a few tumbled sand-hills stood between it and the sea. An outcropping
of rock had formed a bastion for the sand, so that there was here a promontory in the coast-line
between two shallow bays; and just beyond the tides, the rock again cropped out and formed
an islet of small dimensions but strikingly designed. The quicksands were of great extent at
low water, and had an infamous reputation in the country. Close inshore, between the islet
and the promontory, it was said they would swallow a man in four minutes and a half; but there
may have been little ground for this precision. The district was alive with rabbits, and haunted
by gulls which made a continual piping about the pavilion. On summer days the outlook was bright,
and even gladsome; but at sundown in September, with a high wind, and a heavy surf rolling
in close along the links, the place told of nothing but dead mariners and sea disaster. A ship
beating to windward on the horizon, and a huge truncheon of wreck half-buried in the sands
at my feet, completed the innuendo of the scene.

The pavilion--it had been built by the last proprietor, Northmour's uncle, a silly and prodigal
virtuoso--presented little signs of age. It was two stories in height, Italian in design, surrounded
by a patch of garden in which nothing had prospered but a few coarse flowers, and looked, with
its shuttered windows, not like a house that had been deserted, but like one that had never
been tenanted by man. Northmour was plainly from home; whether, as usual, sulking in the cabin
of his yacht, or in one of his fitful and extravagant appearances in the world of society,
I had, of course, no means of guessing. The place had an air of solitude that daunted even
a solitary like myself; the wind cried in the chimneys with a strange and wailing note; and
it was with a sense of escape, as if I were going indoors, that I turned away and, driving
my cart before me, entered the skirts of the wood.

The Sea-Wood of Graden had been planted to shelter the cultivated fields behind, and check
the encroachments of the blowing sand. As you advanced into it from coastward, elders were
succeeded by other hardy shrubs; but the timber was all stunted and bushy; it led a life of
conflict; the trees were accustomed to swing there all night long in fierce winter tempests;
and even in early spring the leaves were already flying, and autumn was beginning, in this
exposed plantation. Inland the ground rose into a little hill, which, along with the islet,
served as a sailing mark for seamen. When the hill was open of the islet to the north, vessels
must bear well to the eastward to clear Graden Ness and the Graden Bullers. In the lower ground,
a streamlet ran among the trees, and, being dammed with dead leaves and clay of its own carrying,
spread out every here and there, and lay in stagnant pools. One or two ruined cottages were
dotted about the wood; and, according to Northmour, these were ecclesiastical foundations,
and in their time had sheltered pious hermits.

I found a den, or small hollow, where there was a spring of pure water; and there, clearing
away the brambles, I pitched the tent, and made a fire to cook my supper. My horse I picketed
farther in the wood where there was a patch of sward. The banks of the den not only concealed
the light of my fire, but sheltered me from the wind, which was cold as well as high.

The life I was leading made me both hardy and frugal. I never drank but water, and rarely ate
anything more costly than oatmeal; and I required so little sleep that, although I rose with
the peep of day, I would often lie long awake in the dark or starry watches of the night. Thus
in Graden Sea-Wood, although I fell thankfully asleep by eight in the evening, I was awake
again before eleven with a full possession of my faculties, and no sense of drowsiness or fatigue.
I rose and sat by the fire, watching the trees and clouds tumultuously tossing and fleeing
overhead, and hearkening to the wind and the rollers along the shore; till at length, growing
weary of inaction, I quitted the den, and strolled towards the borders of the wood. A young
moon, buried in mist, gave a faint illumination to my steps; and the light grew brighter as
I walked forth into the links. At the same moment, the wind, smelling salt of the open ocean,
and carrying particles of sand, struck me with its full force, so that I had to bow my head.

When I raised it again to look about me, I was aware of a light in the pavilion. It was not
stationary; but passed from one window to another as though some one were reviewing the different
apartments with a lamp or candle. I watched it for some seconds in great surprise. When I had
arrived in the afternoon the house had been plainly deserted; now it was as plainly occupied.
It was my first idea that a gang of thieves might have broken in and be now ransacking Northmour's
cupboards, which were many and not ill supplied. But what should bring thieves to Graden-Easter?
And, again, all the shutters had been thrown open, and it would have been more in the character
of such gentry to close them. I dismissed the notion, and fell back upon another: Northmour
himself must have arrived, and was now airing and inspecting the pavilion.

I have said that there was no real affection between this man and me; but, had I loved him
like a brother, I was then so much more in love with solitude that I should none the less have
shunned his company. As it was, I turned and ran for it; and it was with genuine satisfaction
that I found myself safely back beside the fire. I had escaped an acquaintance: I should have
one more night in comfort. In the morning I might either slip away before Northmour was abroad,
or pay him as short a visit as I chose.

But when morning came I thought the situation so diverting that I forgot my shyness. Northmour
was at my mercy; I arranged a good practical jest, though I knew well that my neighbour was
not the man to jest with in security; and, chuckling beforehand over its success, took my place
among the elders at the edge of the wood, whence I could command the door of the pavilion.
The shutters were all once more closed, which I remember thinking odd; and the house, with
its white walls and green venetians, looked spruce and habitable in the morning light. Hour
after hour passed, and still no sign of Northmour. I knew him for a sluggard in the morning;
but, as it drew on towards noon, I lost my patience. To say the truth, I had promised myself
to break my fast in the pavilion, and hunger began to prick me sharply. It was a pity to let
the opportunity go by without some cause for mirth; but the grosser appetite prevailed, and
I relinquished my jest with regret, and sallied from the wood.

The appearance of the house affected me, as I drew near, with disquietude. It seemed unchanged
since last evening; and I had expected it, I scarce knew why, to wear some external signs of
habitation. But no: the windows were all closely shuttered, the chimneys breathed no smoke,
and the front door itself was closely padlocked. Northmour therefore had entered by the back;
this was the natural, and indeed the necessary, conclusion; and you may judge of my surprise
when, on turning the house, I found the back-door similarly secured.

My mind at once reverted to the original theory of thieves; and I blamed myself sharply for
my last night's inaction. I examined all the windows on the lower story, but none of them had
been tampered with; I tried the padlocks, but they were both secure. It thus became a problem
how the thieves, if thieves they were, had managed to enter the house. They must have got,
I reasoned, upon the roof of the outhouse where Northmour used to keep his photographic battery;
and from thence, either by the window of the study or that of my old bedroom, completed their
burglarious entry.

I followed what I supposed was their example; and, getting on the roof, tried the shutters
of each room. Both were secure; but I was not to be beaten; and, with a little force, one of
them flew open, grazing, as it did so, the back of my hand. I remember I put the wound to my
mouth and stood for perhaps half a minute licking it like a dog, and mechanically gazing behind
me over the waste links and the sea; and in that space of time my eye made note of a large
schooner yacht some miles to the north-east. Then I threw up the window and climbed in.

I went over the house, and nothing can express my mystification. There was no sign of disorder,
but, on the contrary, the rooms were unusually clean and pleasant. I found fires laid ready
for lighting; three bedrooms prepared with a luxury quite foreign to Northmour's habits, and
with water in the ewers and the beds turned down; a table set for three in the dining-room;
and an ample supply of cold meats, game, and vegetables on the pantry shelves. There were guests
expected, that was plain; but why guests when Northmour hated society? And, above all, why
was the house thus stealthily prepared at dead of night? and why were the shutters closed and
the doors padlocked?

I effaced all traces of my visit, and came forth from the window feeling sobered and concerned.

The schooner yacht was still in the same place; and it flashed for a moment through my mind
that this might be the Red Earl bringing the owner of the pavilion and his guests. But the
vessel's head was set the other way.

CHAPTER II

TELLS OF THE NOCTURNAL LANDING FROM THE YACHT

I returned to the den to cook myself a meal, of which I stood in great need, as well as to
care for my horse, which I had somewhat neglected in the morning. From time to time I went
down to the edge of the wood; but there was no change in the pavilion, and not a human creature
was seen all day upon the links. The schooner in the offing was the one touch of life within
my range of vision. She, apparently with no set object, stood off and on or lay to, hour after
hour; but as the evening deepened she drew steadily nearer. I became more convinced that she
carried Northmour and his friends, and that they would probably come ashore after dark; not
only because that was of a piece with the secrecy of the preparations, but because the tide
would not have flowed sufficiently before eleven to cover Graden Floe and the other sea quags
that fortified the shore against invaders.

All day the wind had been going down, and the sea along with it; but there was a return towards
sunset of the heavy weather of the day before. The night set in pitch dark. The wind came off
the sea in squalls, like the firing of a battery of cannon; now and then there was a flaw of
rain and the surf rolled heavier with the rising tide. I was down at my observatory among the
elders, when a light was run up to the mast-head of the schooner, and showed she was closer
in than when I had last seen her by the dying daylight. I concluded that this must be a signal
to Northmour's associates on shore; and, stepping forth into the links, looked around me for
something in response.

A small footpath ran along the margin of the wood, and formed the most direct communication
between the pavilion and the mansion-house; and as I cast my eyes to that side I saw a spark
of light, not a quarter of a mile away, and rapidly approaching. From its uneven course it
appeared to be the light of a lantern carried by a person who followed the windings of the
path, and was often staggered and taken aback by the more violent squalls. I concealed myself
once more among the elders, and waited eagerly for the new-comer's advance. It proved to be
a woman; and as she passed within half a rod of my ambush I was able to recognise the features.
The deaf and silent old dame who had nursed Northmour in his childhood was his associate in
this underhand affair.

I followed her at a little distance, taking advantage of the innumerable heights and hollows,
concealed by the darkness, and favoured not only by the nurse's deafness, but by the uproar
of the wind and surf. She entered the pavilion, and, going at once to the upper story, opened
and set a light in one of the windows that looked towards the sea. Immediately afterwards the
light at the schooner's mast-head was run down and extinguished. Its purpose had been attained,
and those on board were sure that they were expected. The old woman resumed her preparations;
although the other shutters remained closed, I could see a glimmer going to and fro about the
house; and a gush of sparks from one chimney after another soon told me that the fires were
being kindled.

Northmour and his guests, I was now persuaded, would come ashore as soon as there was water
on the floe. It was a wild night for boat service; and I felt some alarm mingle with my curiosity
as I reflected on the danger of the landing. My old acquaintance, it was true, was the most
eccentric of men; but the present eccentricity was both disquieting and lugubrious to consider.
A variety of feelings thus led me towards the beach, where I lay flat on my face in a hollow
within six feet of the track that led to the pavilion. Thence, I should have the satisfaction
of recognising the arrivals, and, if they should prove to be acquaintances, greeting them as
soon as they had landed.

Some time before eleven, while the tide was still dangerously low, a boat's lantern appeared
close inshore; and, my attention being thus awakened, I could perceive another still far to
seaward, violently tossed, and sometimes hidden by the billows. The weather, which was getting
dirtier as the night went on, and the perilous situation of the yacht upon a lee-shore, had
probably driven them to attempt a landing at the earliest possible moment.

A little afterwards, four yachtsmen carrying a very heavy chest, and guided by a fifth with
a lantern, passed close in front of me as I lay, and were admitted to the pavilion by the nurse.
They returned to the beach, and passed me a second time with another chest, larger but apparently
not so heavy as the first. A third time they made the transit; and on this occasion one of
the yachtsmen carried a leather portmanteau, and the others a lady's trunk and carriage bag.
My curiosity was sharply excited. If a woman were among the guests of Northmour, it would show
a change in his habits and an apostasy from his pet theories of life, well calculated to fill
me with surprise. When he and I dwelt there together, the pavilion had been a temple of misogyny.
And now, one of the detested sex was to be installed under its roof. I remembered one or two
particulars, a few notes of daintiness and almost of coquetry which had struck me the day before
as I surveyed the preparations in the house; their purpose was now clear, and I thought myself
dull not to have perceived it from the first.

While I was thus reflecting, a second lantern drew near me from the beach. It was carried by
a yachtsman whom I had not yet seen, and who was conducting two other persons to the pavilion.
These two persons were unquestionably the guests for whom the house was made ready; and, straining
eye and ear, I set myself to watch them as they passed. One was an unusually tall man, in a
travelling hat slouched over his eyes, and a highland cape closely buttoned and turned up so
as to conceal his face. You could make out no more of him than that he was, as I have said,
unusually tall, and walked feebly with a heavy stoop. By his side, and either clinging to him
or giving him support--I could not make out which--was a young, tall, and slender figure of
a woman. She was extremely pale; but in the light of the lantern her face was so marred by
strong and changing shadows that she might equally well have been as ugly as sin or as beautiful
as I afterwards found her to be.

When they were just abreast of me, the girl made some remark which was drowned by the noise
of the wind.

"Hush!" said her companion; and there was something in the tone with which the word was uttered
that thrilled and rather shook my spirits. It seemed to breathe from a bosom labouring under
the deadliest terror; I have never heard another syllable so expressive; and I still hear it
again when I am feverish at night, and my mind runs upon old times. The man turned towards
the girl as he spoke; I had a glimpse of much red beard and a nose which seemed to have been
broken in youth; and his light eyes seemed shining in his face with some strong and unpleasant
emotion.

But these two passed on and were admitted in their turn to the pavilion.

One by one, or in groups, the seamen returned to the beach. The wind brought me the sound of
a rough voice crying, "Shove off!" Then, after a pause, another lantern drew near. It was Northmour
alone.

My wife and I, a man and a woman, have often agreed to wonder how a person could be, at the
same time, so handsome and so repulsive as Northmour. He had the appearance of a finished gentleman;
his face bore every mark of intelligence and courage; but you had only to look at him, even
in the most amiable moment, to see that he had the temper of a slaver captain. I never knew
a character that was both explosive and revengeful to the same degree; he combined the vivacity
of the South with the sustained and deadly hatreds of the North; and both traits were plainly
written on his face, which was a sort of danger-signal. In person he was tall, strong, and
active; his hair and complexion very dark; his features handsomely designed, but spoiled by
a menacing expression.

At that moment he was somewhat paler than by nature; he wore a heavy frown; and his lips worked,
and he looked sharply round him as he walked, like a man besieged with apprehensions. And yet
I thought he had a look of triumph underlying all, as though he had already done much, and
was near the end of an achievement.

Partly from a scruple of delicacy--which I daresay came too late--partly from the pleasure
of startling an acquaintance, I desired to make my presence known to him without delay.

I got suddenly to my feet, and stepped forward.

"Northmour!" said I.

I have never had so shocking a surprise in all my days. He leaped on me without a word; something
shone in his hand; and he struck for my heart with a dagger. At the same moment I knocked him
head over heels. Whether it was my quickness, or his own uncertainty, I know not; but the blade
only grazed my shoulder, while the hilt and his fist struck me violently on the mouth.

I fled, but not far. I had often and often observed the capabilities of the sand-hills for
protracted ambush or stealthy advances and retreats; and, not ten yards from the scene of the
scuffle, plumped down again upon the grass. The lantern had fallen and gone out. But what was
my astonishment to see Northmour slip at a bound into the pavilion, and hear him bar the door
behind him with a clang of iron!

He had not pursued me. He had run away. Northmour, whom I knew for the most implacable and
daring of men, had run away! I could scarcely believe my reason; and yet in this strange business,
where all was incredible, there was nothing to make a work about in an incredibility more or
less. For why was the pavilion secretly prepared? Why had Northmour landed with his guests
at dead of night, in half a gale of wind, and with the floe scarce covered? Why had he sought
to kill me? Had he not recognised my voice? I wondered. And, above all, how had he come to
have a dagger ready in his hand? A dagger, or even a sharp knife, seemed out of keeping with
the age in which we lived; and a gentleman landing from his yacht on the shore of his own estate,
even although it was at night and with some mysterious circumstances, does not usually, as
a matter of fact, walk thus prepared for deadly onslaught. The more I reflected, the further
I felt at sea. I recapitulated the elements of mystery, counting them on my fingers: the pavilion
secretly prepared for guests; the guests landed at the risk of their lives and to the imminent
peril of the yacht; the guests, or at least one of them, in undisguised and seemingly causeless
terror; Northmour with a naked weapon; Northmour stabbing his most intimate acquaintance at
a word; last, and not least strange, Northmour fleeing from the man whom he had sought to murder,
and barricading himself, like a hunted creature, behind the door of the pavilion. Here were
at least six separate causes for extreme surprise; each part and parcel with the others, and
forming all together one consistent story. I felt almost ashamed to believe my own senses.

As I thus stood, transfixed with wonder, I began to grow painfully conscious of the injuries
I had received in the scuffle; skulked round among the sand-hills; and, by a devious path,
regained the shelter of the wood. On the way, the old nurse passed again within several yards
of me, still carrying her lantern, on the return journey to the mansion-house of Graden. This
made a seventh suspicious feature in the case. Northmour and his guests, it appeared, were
to cook and do the cleaning for themselves, while the old woman continued to inhabit the big
empty barrack among the policies. There must surely be great cause for secrecy when so many
inconveniences were confronted to preserve it.

So thinking, I made my way to the den. For greater security I trod out the embers of the fire,
and lit my lantern to examine the wound upon my shoulder. It was a trifling hurt, although
it bled somewhat freely, and I dressed it as well as I could (for its position made it difficult
to reach) with some rag and cold water from the spring. While I was thus busied I mentally
declared war against Northmour and his mystery. I am not an angry man by nature, and I believe
there was more curiosity than resentment in my heart. But war I certainly declared; and, by
way of preparation, I got out my revolver, and, having drawn the charges, cleaned and reloaded
it with scrupulous care. Next I became preoccupied about my horse. It might break loose, or
fall to neighing, and so betray my camp in the Sea-Wood. I determined to rid myself of its
neighbourhood; and long before dawn I was leading it over the links in the direction of the
fisher village.

CHAPTER III

TELLS HOW I BECAME ACQUAINTED WITH MY WIFE

For two days I skulked round the pavilion, profiting by the uneven surface of the links. I
became an adept in the necessary tactics. These low hillocks and shallow dells, running one
into another, became a kind of cloak of darkness for my enthralling, but perhaps dishonourable,
pursuit. Yet, in spite of this advantage, I could learn but little of Northmour or his guests.

Fresh provisions were brought under cover of darkness by the old woman from the mansion-house.
Northmour and the young lady, sometimes together, but more often singly, would walk for an
hour or two at a time on the beach beside the quicksand. I could not but conclude that this
promenade was chosen with an eye to secrecy; for the spot was open only to the seaward. But
it suited me not less excellently; the highest and most accidented of the sand-hills immediately
adjoined; and from these, lying flat in a hollow, I could overlook Northmour or the young lady
as they walked.

