    "[Greek: Psuchê, echeis polla agatha keimena eis etê polla; anapauou,
    phage, pie, euphrainou]."--Luke xii. 19.

    "Lo, this is the man that took not God for his strength but trusted
    unto the multitude of his riches."--Ps. lii. 8.

    "For he hath said in his heart, Tush, I shall never be cast down there
    shall no harm happen unto me."--Ps. x. 6., &c. (See Obadiah v. 3.:
    "Who shall bring me down to the ground?")

So Niobe boasts:

 "Felix sum, quis enim hoc neget? felixque manebo.
  Hoc quoque quis dubitet? tutam me copia fecit.
  Major sum quam cui possit Fortuna nocere."--Ovid, Met. VI. 194.

{373}

    "[Greek: Ti de blepeis to karphos to en tôi ophthalmôi tou adelphou
    sou, tên de en tôi sôi ophthalmôi dokon ou katanoeis]."--Matt. vii.
    3.

 "Cum tua pervideas oculis mala lippus inunctis,
  Cur in amicorum vitiis tam cernis acutum,
  Quam aut aquila, aut serpens Epidaurius?"--Hor. Serm. I. iii. 25.

    "[Greek: Hê nux proekopsen, hê de hêmera êngiken]."--Rom. xiii. 12.

    "[Greek: All' iomen; mala gar nux anetai, enguthi d' êôs]."--Hom.
    Iliad, x. 251.

F. W. J.

Brighton.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Mr. Sisson's developing Fluid.--Since I sent you the new formula for MR. SISSON'S positive
developer, which you published in Vol. viii., p. 301., MR. SISSON has written to me to say
that if, instead of the acetic acid, you add two drachms of formic acid, the new agent proposed
by MR. LYTE, you certainly obtain the sweetest-toned positives he has ever seen. The pictures,
he says, come out very quickly with it indeed; and with a small lens in a sitting-room he can
in about ten seconds obtain the most wonderful detail. Every wrinkle in the face, and ladies'
lace ribbons or cap-strings, he says, come out beautifully.

The formula then, as improved by MR. SISSON, is--

  Water                       5 oz.
  Protosulphate of iron       1½ drs.
  Nitrate of lead             1 dr.
  Formic acid                 2 drs.

Perhaps you will give your readers the benefit of it in your next Number. Having tried it myself,
I think they will be delighted with the beautiful white silvery tone, without any metallic
reflection, produced in pictures developed with it.

J. LEACHMAN.

20. Compton Terrace, Islington.

Dr. Diamond's Process for Albumenized Paper.--Photographers are under many obligations to DR.
DIAMOND, particularly for the valuable information communicated through "N. & Q.," and his
obligingness in answering inquiries. I make no doubt he will readily reply to the following
questions, suggested by his late letter on the process for printing on albumenized paper.

Will the solution of forty grains of common salt and forty grains of mur. amm., without the
albumen, be found to answer for ordinary positive paper (say Canson's, Turner's, or Whatman's)?
and, in that case, may it be applied with a brush?

Will the forty-grain solution of nit. sil. (without amm.) answer for paper so prepared? and
may this also be applied with a brush?

Should the positives be printed out very strongly? and how long should they remain in the saturated
bath of hypo.?

Is not the use of sel d'or subject to the objection that the pictures with which it is used
are liable to fade in time?

DR. DIAMOND says that pictures produced by the use of amm. nit. of silver are not to be depended
on for permanency. If this be so, it is very important it should be known, as the use of amm.
nit. is at present generally recommended and adopted.

C. E. F.

Mr. Lyte's New Process.--Although I presume it is none of your affair what is said or done
in "another place," will you kindly ask MR. LYTE for me, if he will be so good as to explain
the discrepancy which appears between his "new processes," as given in the Journal of the Photographic
Society of Sept. 21, and "N. & Q." of Sept. 10? In the former he says, for sensitizing, take
(amongst other things) iodide of ammonia 60 grains: in "N. & Q.," on the contrary, what would
seem to be the same receipt, or intended as the same, gives the quantity of this salt one fourth
less, 45 grains--a vast difference. Again, in the developing solution the quantity of formic
acid is double in your paper what it is in the journal.

I should not have trespassed on your space, but would have written to MR. LYTE directly, except
from the fear that some other unfortunate practitioner may have stumbled over the same impediment
as I have done, and may not have had courage to make the inquiry.

S. B.

    [Having forwarded this communication to MR. LYTE, we have received from
    that gentleman the following explanations of his process, &c.]

The process which was published in the Photographic Journal was, I am sorry to say, not quite
correct in its proportions, on account of a mistake in inclosing the wrong letter to the Editor;
but the mistake will, I trust, be rectified by another communication which I have now sent.

The whole of the formulæ, however, as given in "N. & Q.," are quite correct.

Let me now, however, trespass on your pages by a few more answers to several other Querists,
and which at the same time may be acceptable to some of your readers.

1. The developing agents which are made with iron are very applicable as baths to immerse the
plate in; and the formic acid, from its powerful deoxidizing property, renders the iron salt
more stable during long use and exposure to the air.

2. In coating paper with albumen, if the upper edge of the paper be sufficiently turned back,
and the paper be forced down sufficiently on to the surface of the albumen, no bubbles will
form; and {374} the operator will not be troubled with the streaks so often complained of.

3. No time can possibly be fixed for the exposure of the positive to the action of the hypo.;
and to produce the best effects, the positive must be continually watched, both while printing
and while in the hypo.

4. No hot iron should be applied to the positive after being printed, but the picture should
be allowed to dry spontaneously.

5. The developing agent with the pyrogallic and formic acids will keep good a very long time,
longer, I think, than that in which acetic acid is used, but cannot be used as a dipping bath.

6. I find the formic acid which I obtain from different chemists rather variable in its strength.
What I use is rather below the average strength, so that in general about six drachms of the
commercial acid will suffice where I use one ounce; but the excess seems to produce no bad result.

7. A great advantage of the pyrogallic developer which I recommend, is that of its being able
to be diluted to almost any extent, with no other result than simply making the development
slower. Another point is also worthy of notice, viz. a method by which even a very weak positive
on glass may be converted into a very strong negative.

I take a saturated solution of bichloride of mercury in hydrochloric acid, and add of this
one to six parts of water. This I pour over the collodion plate, and watch it till the whitening
process is quite complete. Having well washed the surface with water, I pour over it a solution
of iodide of potassium, very weak, not more than two or three grains to the ounce of water.
The effect of this is to turn the white parts to a brilliant yellow, quite impervious to actinic
rays. This process is only applicable to weak negative or instantaneous pictures, as, if used
on a picture of much intensity, the opacity produced is too great. By using, however, instead
of the iodide of potassium, a weak solution of ammonia, as recommended by Mr. Hunt, a less
degree of intensity may be produced again a less intensity by hyposulphate of soda and a less
degree again, but still a slight darkening, by pouring on the bichloride and pouring it off
at once before the whitening commences. I thus can tell the exact degree of negative effect
in any picture of whatever intensity. The terchloride of gold is most uncertain in its results,
at any rate I find it so.

I must again beg you to excuse the great length of my communication, and hope it will be of
service to my fellow photographers.

F. MAXWELL LYTE.

Florian, Torquay.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Derivation of the Word "Island" (Vol. viii., p. 49.).--I have received through the kindness
of Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., a copy of the Philological Journal for Feb. 21, 1851, in which
my late observations on the etymology of the word island are shown to be almost identical with
his own, published more than two years ago, even the minutest particulars. His own surprise
on seeing my remarks must have been at least as great as my own, on learning how singularly
I had been anticipated; and those of your readers who will refer to the number of the journal
in question, will be doubtless as much surprised as either of us.

This coincidence suggests two things: first, the truth of the etymology in question, secondly,
the excellency of that spirit which (as in this instance) "thinketh no evil;" and, in so close
a resemblance of ideas as that before us, rather than at once start a charge of plagiarism,
will believe that it is possible for two persons, with similar habits of thought, to arrive
at the same end, and that, too, by singularly identical means, when engaged on one and the
same subject.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

"Pætus and Arria" (Vol. viii., p. 219.).--As I have not observed a reply to the Query respecting
the author of Pætus and Arria, a tragedy, I beg to state that the work was not written by a
gentleman of the University of Cambridge, but by Mr. Nicholson, son of Mr. Nicholson, a well-known
and highly respectable bookseller in Cambridge, in the early part of the present century. The
young man, who, besides being unfailing in his attention to business, had a literary turn,
and was attached to the fine arts, died in the prime of life. After his death, the poor father,
with tears in his eyes, presented me with a copy of the tragedy. I am glad to record this testimony
to the character of persons well known to me during several years.

[Greek: Martus Pistos].

"That Swinney" (Vol. viii, p. 213.).--I am well pleased with the manner in which T. S. J. has
unearthed "that Swinney," if indeed, as is very probable, Sidney Swinney really was the man
who interfered with the great unknown. It may not be impertinent to state that Sidney Swinney,
who was of Clare Hall, Cambridge, became B.A. in 1744, M.A. in 1749, and D.D. (per saltum)
in 1763. It may also be worth noting that a George Swinney, of the same college, became B.A.
in 1767, and M.A. in 1770. This George Swinney may have been Sidney Swinney's son, or his near
relation; and may have been the man who went to Lord G. Sackville in July, 1769; but I think
this not likely. I will only observe farther that, in the "Graduati Cantabrigienses," {375}
the names are spelled Swiney; but changes of this kind, by the parties themselves, are by no
means uncommon.

The question, whether Swinney had ever before spoken to Lord G. Sackville, remains unanswered,
although Junius most probably made a mistake in that matter.

VALENTINE WESTON.

The Six Gates of Troy (Vol. viii., p. 288.).--The passage of Dares relative to the gates of
Troy describes the deeds of Priam on succeeding to the throne:

    "Priamus ut Ilium venit, minime moram fecit, ampliora moenia exstruxit,
    et civitatem munitissimam reddidit.... Regiam quoque ædificavit, et ibi
    Jovi Statori aram consecravit. Hectorem in Pæoniam misit, Ilio portas
    fecit, quarum hæc sunt nomina: Antenorea, Dardania, Ilia, Scæa,
    Thymbræa, Trojana. Deinde, postquam Ilium stabilitum vidit, tempus
    expectavit."--Chap. 4.

It will be observed that these six names correspond with the six names in Shakspeare, except
that Shakspeare, following some ignorant transcriber, substitutes Chetas for Scæan.

The work, consisting of forty-four short chapters, which has come down to us under the title
of De Excidio Trojæ Historia, by Dares Phrygius, is a pseudonymous production, which cannot
be placed earlier than the fifth or sixth century. See the preface to the edition of Dederick,
Bonnæ, 1835; or the article "Dares," by Dr. Schmitz, in Dr. Smith's Dictionary of Greek and
Roman Biography. Other writers spoke of four gates of Troy. (See Heyne, Exc. XIV. ad Æn. II.)

L.

Milton's Widow (Vol. vii., p. 596.; Vol. viii., pp. 12. 134. 200.).--Having noticed several
Queries and Replies in your pages concerning the family of the poet Milton's third wife, I
beg to give the following extracts from a pamphlet printed by Pullan of Chester so recently
as 1851, entitled Historical Facts connected with Nantwich and its Neighbourhood:

    "In that same year (1662), Milton was received at Stoke Hall as the
    husband of Elizabeth Minshull, the grand-daughter of Geoffrey
    Minshull."--P. 50. "Not far from the Hall, where Milton was once a
    welcome visitor, stands the Yew Tree House."

There can be little doubt the author of the pamphlet referred to derived the information on
which those statements were made from an authentic source; and if so, it seems pretty clear,
the Elizabeth Minshull whom Milton married was grand-daughter of Geoffrey Minshull of Stoke Hall.

T. P. L.

Manchester.

Boom (Vol. vii., p. 620.; Vol. viii., p. 183.).--The Bittern is not an uncommon bird in some
parts of Wales, where it is very expressively called Aderyn-y-Bwn (the Boom-bird), or Bwmp-y-Gors
(Boom of the Fen): the w is pronounced as double o.

W. R. D. S.

"Nugget" not an American Term (Vol. vii. passim).--It is a mistake in our correspondent to
suppose that the word "nugget" was used in California by American "diggers" to denominate a
lump of gold. That word was never heard of in this country until after the discoveries in Australia.
It is not used now in California, "lump" is the proper term; and when a miner accumulates a
quantity, he boasts of his "pile," or rejoices in the possession of a "pocket full of rocks."

[Old English W].

Philadelphia.

Soke Mill (Vol. viii., p. 272.).--Suit is not now enforced to the King's Mills in the manor
of Wrexham, in the county of Denbigh, but the lessee of the manorial rights of the crown receives
a payment at the rate of threepence per bushel for all the malt ground in hand-mills within
the limits of the manor.

TAFFY.

Binometrical Verse (Vol. viii., p. 292.).--This verse appeared in the Athenæum (Sept. 2, 1848,
No. 1088, p. 883.), given by one correspondent as having been previously forwarded by another;
but it does not appear to have been previously published.

M.

Watch-paper Inscription (Vol. viii., p. 316.).--Twenty-five years ago this inscription was
set to music, and was popular in private circles. The melody was moderately good, and the "monitory
pulse-like beating" of course was acted, perhaps over-acted, in the accompaniment. I am not
sure it was printed, but the fingers of young ladies produced a great many copies. Your correspondent's
version is quite accurate, and I think he must have heard it sung, as well as read it. Segnius
irritant, &c. is not true of what is read as opposed to what is heard with music.

M.

