Well, it go like this eight, ten year; then it come last summer, and I meet Filon at the ford
of Crèvecoeur. That is the water that comes down eastward from Mineral Mountain between Olancho
and Sentinel Rock. It is what you call Mineral Creek, but the French shepherds call it Crèvecoeur.
For why; it is a most swift and wide water; it goes darkly between earthy banks upon which
it gnaws. It has hot springs which come up in it without reason, so that there is no safe crossing
at any time. Its sands are quick; what they take, they take wholly with the life in it, and
after a little they spew it out again. And, look you, it makes no singing, this water of Crèvecoeur.
Twenty years have I kept sheep between Red Butte and the Temblor Hills, and I say this. Make
no fear of singing water, for it goes not too deeply but securely on a rocky bottom; such a
one you may trust. But this silent one, that is hot or cold, deep or shallow, and has never
its banks the same one season with another, this you may not trust, M'siu. And to get sheep
across it--ah--it breaks the heart, this Crèvecoeur.

Nevertheless, there is one place where a great rock runs slantwise of the stream, but under
it, so that the water goes shallowly with a whisper, ah, so fast, and below it is a pool. Here
on the rocks the shepherds make pine logs to lie with stones so that the sheep cross over.
Every year the water carries the logs away and the shepherds build again, and there is no shepherd
goes by that water but lose some sheep. Therefore, they call it the ford of Crèvecoeur [Break-heart].

Well, I have been about by the meadow of Angostura when it come last July, and there I see
Narcisse Duplin. He is tell me the feed is good about Sentinel Rock, so I think me to go back
by the way of Crèvecoeur. There is pine wood all about eastward from that place. It is all
shadow there at midday and has a weary sound. Me, I like it not, that pine wood, so I push
the flock and am very glad when I hear toward the ford the bark of dogs and the broken sound
of bells. I think there is other shepherd that make talk with me. But me, M'siu, sacre! damn!
when I come out by the ford there is Filon Geraud. He has come up one side Crèvecoeur, with
his flock, as I have come up the other. He laugh.

"Hillo, Raoul," say Filon, "will you cross?"

"I will cross," say I.

"After me," say Filon.

"Before," say I.

M'siu does not know about sheep? Ah, non. It is so that the sheep is most scare of all beasts
about water. Never so little a stream will he cross, but if the dogs compel him. It is the
great trouble of shepherds to get the flock across the waters that go in and about the Sierras.
For that it is the custom to have two, three goats with the flocks to go first across the water,
then they will follow. But here at Crèvecoeur it is bad crossing any way you go; also that
day it is already afternoon. Therefore I stand at one side that ford and make talk with Filon
at the other about who goes first. Then my goat which leads my flock come push by me and I
stand on that log while we talk. He is one smart goat.

"Eh, Raoul, let the goats decide," cries Filon, and to that I have agree. Filon push his goat
on the log, he is one great black one that is call Diable--I ask you is that a name for a goat?
I have call mine Noé. So they two walk on that log very still; for they see what they have
to do. Then they push with the head, Diable and Noé, till that log it rock in the water; Filon
is cry to his goat and I to mine. Then because of that water one goat slip on the log, and
the other is push so hard that he cannot stop; over they go into the pool of swift water, over
and over until they come to the shallows; then they find their feet and come up, each on his
own side. They will not care to push with the heads again at that time. Filon he walk out on
the log to me, and I walk to him.

"My goat have won the ford," says he.

"Your goat cannot keep what he wins."

"But I can," say Filon. Then he look at me with his eyes like--like I have told you, M'siu.

"Raoul," he say, "you is one little man."

With that I remember me all the wrong I have had from this one.

"Go you after your goat, Filon Geraud," say I.

With that I put my staff behind his foot, so, M'siu, and send him into the water, splash! He
come to his feet presently in the pool with the water all in his hair and his eyes, and the
stream run strong and dark against his middle.

"Hey, you, Raoul, what for you do that?" he say, but also he laugh. "Ah, ha, little man, you
have the joke this time."

M'siu, that laugh stop on his face like it been freeze, his mouth is open, his eyes curl up.
It is terrible, that dead laugh in the midst of the black water that run down from his hair.

"Raoul," he say, "the sand is quick!"

Then he take one step, and I hear the sand suck. I see Filon shiver like a reed in the swift water.

"My God," he say, "the sand is quick!"

M'siu, I do not know how it is with me. When I throw Filon in the pool, I have not known it
is quick-sand; but when I hear that, I think I am glad. I kneel down by that log in the ford
and watch Filon. He speak to me very quiet:

"You must get a rope and make fast to that pine and throw the end to me. There is a rope in
my pack."

"Yes," say I, "there is a rope."

So I take my flocks across the ford, since Filon is in the water, and take all those silly
ones toward La Crevasse, and after I think about that business. Three days after, I meet P'tee
Pete. I tell him I find the sheep of Filon in the pine wood below Sentinel Rock. Pete, he say
that therefore Filon is come to some hurt, and that he look for him. That make me scare lest
he should look by the ford of Crèvecoeur. So after that, five or six days, when Narcisse Duplin
is come up with me, I tell him Filon is gone to Sacramento where his money is; therefore I
keep care of his sheep. That is a better tale--eh, M'siu,--for I have to say something. Every
shepherd in that range is know those sheep of Filon. All this time I think me to take the sheep
to Pierre Jullien in the meadow of Black Mountain. He is not much, that Pierre. If I tell him
it is one gift from Le bon Dieu, that is explain enough for Pierre Jullien. Then I will be
quit of the trouble of Filon Geraud.

So, M'siu, would it have been, but for that dog Helène. That is Filon's she-dog that he raise
from a pup. She is--she is une femme, that dog! All that first night when we come away from
the ford, she cry, cry in her throat all through the dark, and in the light she look at me
with her eyes, so to say:

"I know, Raoul! I know what is under the water of Crèvecoeur." M'siu, is a man to stand that
from a dog? So the next night I beat her, and in the morning she is gone. I think me the good
luck to get rid of her. That Helène! M'siu, what you think she do? She have gone back to look
in the water for Filon. There she stay, and all sheepmen when they pass that way see that she
is a good sheepdog, and that she is much hungry; so they wonder that she will not leave off
to look and go with them. After while all people in those parts is been talkin' about that
dog of Filon's that look so keen in the water of Crèvecoeur. Mebbe four, five weeks after that
I have killed Filon, one goes riding by that place and sees Helène make mourn by the waterside
over something that stick in the sand. It is Filon. Yes. That quick-sand have spit him out
again. So you say; but me, I think it is the devil.

For the rest the sheriff has told you. Here they have brought me, and there is much talk. Of
that I am weary, but for this I tell you all how it is about Filon; M'siu, I would not hang.
Look you, so long as I stay in this life I am quit of that man, but if I die--there is Filon.
So will he do unto me all that I did at the ford of Crèvecoeur, and more; for he is a bad one,
Filon. Therefore it is as I tell you, M'siu, I, Raoul. By the help of God. Yes.

A CALIFORNIAN

BY

GERALDINE BONNER

From Harper's Magazine Copyright, 1905, by Harper and Brothers

IT WAS nearly ten o'clock when Jack Faraday ascended the steps of Madame Delmonti's bow-windowed
mansion and pressed the electric bell. He was a little out of breath and nervous, for, being
young and a stranger to San Francisco, and almost a stranger to Madame Delmonti, he did not
exactly know at what hour his hostess's conversazione might begin, and had upon him the young
man's violent dread of being conspicuously early or conspicuously late.

It did not seem that he was either. As he stood in the doorway and surveyed the field, he felt,
with a little rising breath of relief, that no one appeared to take especial notice of him.
Madame Delmonti's rooms were lit with a great blaze of gas, which, thrown back from many long
mirrors and the gold mountings of a quantity of furniture and picture frames, made an effect
of dazzling yellow brightness, as brilliantly glittering as the transformation scene of a pantomime.

In the middle of the glare Madame Delmonti's company had disposed themselves in a circle, which
had some difficulty in accommodating itself to the long narrow shape of the drawing-room. Now
and then an obstinate sofa or extra large plush-covered arm-chair broke the harmonious curve
of the circle, and its occupant looked furtively ill at ease, as if she felt the embarrassment
of her position in not conforming to the general harmony of the curving line.

The eyes of the circle were fixed on a figure at the piano, near the end of the room--a tall
dark Jewess in a brown dress and wide hat, who was singing with that peculiar vibrant richness
of tone that is so often heard in the voices of the Californian Jewesses. She was perfectly
self-possessed, and her velvet eyes, as her impassioned voice rose a little, rested on Jack
Faraday with a cheerful but not very lively interest. Then they swept past him to where on
a sofa, quite out of the circle, two women sat listening.

One was a young girl, large, well-dressed, and exceedingly handsome; the other a peaked lady,
passée and thin, with her hair bleached to a canary yellow. The Jewess, still singing, smiled
at them, and the girl gave back a lazy smile in return. Then as the song came to a deep and
mellow close, Madame Delmonti, with a delicate rustling of silk brushing against silk, swept
across the room and greeted her guest.

Madame Delmonti was an American, very rich, a good deal made up, but still pretty, and extremely
well preserved. Signor Delmonti, an Italian baritone, whom she had married, and supported ever
since, was useful about the house, as he now proved by standing at a little table and ladling
punch into small glasses, which were distributed among the guests by the two little Delmonti
girls in green silk frocks. Madame Delmonti, with her rouged cheeks and merry grey eyes, as
full of sparkle as they had been twenty years ago, was very cordial to her guest, asking him,
as they stood in the doorway, whom he would best like to meet.

"Maud Levy, who has been singing," she said, "is one of the belles in Hebrew society. She has
a fine voice. You have no objection, Mr. Faraday, to knowing Jews?"

Faraday hastily disclaimed all race prejudices, and she continued, discreetly designating the
ladies on the sofa:

"There are two delightful girls. Mrs. Peck, the blonde, is the society writer for the Morning
Trumpet. She is an elegant woman of a very fine Southern family, but she has had misfortunes.
Her marriage was unhappy. She and Peck are separated now, and she supports herself and her
two children. There was no hope of getting alimony out of that man."

"And that is Genevieve Ryan beside her," Madame Delmonti went on. "I think you'd like Genevieve.
She's a grand girl. Her father, you know, is Barney Ryan, one of our millionaires. He made
his money in a quick turn in Con. Virginia, but before that he used to drive the Marysville
coach, and he was once a miner. He's crazy about Genevieve and gives her five hundred a month
to dress on. I'm sure you'll get on very well together. She's such a refined, pleasant girl"----and
Madame Delmonti, chattering her praises of Barney Ryan's handsome daughter, conducted the stranger
to the shrine.

Miss. Genevieve smiled upon him, much as she had upon the singer, and brushing aside her skirts
of changeable green and heliotrope silk, showed him a little golden-legged chair beside her.
Mrs. Peck and Madame Delmonti conversed with unusual insight and knowledge on the singing of
Maud Levy, and Faraday was left to conduct the conversation with the heiress of Barney Ryan.

She was a large, splendid-looking girl, very much corseted, with an ivory-tinted skin, eyes
as clear as a young child's and smooth freshly red lips. She was a good deal powdered on the
bridge of her nose, and her rich hair was slightly tinted with some reddish dye. She was a
picture of health and material well being. Her perfectly fitting clothes sat with wrinkleless
exactitude over a figure which in its generous breadth and finely curved outline might have
compared with that of the Venus of Milo. She let her eyes, shadowed slightly by the white lace
edge of her large hat, whereon two pink roses trembled on large stalks, dwell upon Faraday
with a curious and frank interest entirely devoid of coquetry. Her manner, almost boyish in
its simple directness, showed the same absence of this feminine trait. While she looked like
a goddess dressed by Worth, she seemed merely a good-natured, phlegmatic girl just emerging
from her teens.

Faraday had made the first commonplaces of conversation, when she asked, eyeing him closely,
"Do you like it out here?"

"Oh, immensely," he responded, politely. "It's such a fine climate."

"It is a good climate," admitted Miss. Ryan, with unenthusiastic acquiescence; "but we are
not so proud of that as we are of the good looks of the Californian women. Don't you think
the women are handsome?"

Faraday looked into her clear and earnest eyes.

"Oh splendid," he answered, "especially their eyes."

Miss. Ryan appeared to demur to this commendation. "It's generally said by strangers that their
figures are unusually handsome. Do you think they are?"

Faraday agreed to this too.

"The girls in the East," said Miss. Ryan, sitting upright with a creaking sound, and drawing
her gloves through one satin-smooth, bejeweled hand, "are very thin, aren't they? Here, I sometimes
think"--she raised her eyes to his in deep and somewhat anxious query--"that they are too fat?"

Faraday gallantly scouted the idea. He said the California woman was a goddess. For the first
time in the interview Miss. Ryan gave a little laugh.

"That's what all you Eastern men say," she said. "They're always telling me I'm a goddess.
Even the Englishmen say that."

"Well," answered Faraday, surprised at his own boldness, "what they say is true."

Miss. Ryan silently eyed him for a speculating moment; then, averting her glance, said, pensively:
"Perhaps so; but I don't think it's so stylish to be a goddess as it is to be very slim. And
then, you know----" Here she suddenly broke off, her eyes fixed upon the crowd of ladies that
blocked an opposite doorway in exeunt. "There's mommer. I guess she must be going home, and
I suppose I'd better go too, and not keep her waiting."

She rose as she spoke, and with a pat of her hand adjusted her glimmering skirts.

"Oh, Mr. Faraday," she said, as she peered down at them, "I hope you'll give yourself the pleasure
of calling on me. I'm at home almost any afternoon after five, and Tuesday is my day. Come
whenever you please. I'll be real glad to see you, and I guess popper'd like to talk to you
about things in the East. He's been in Massachusetts too."

She held out her large white hand and gave Faraday a vigorous hand-shake.

"I'm glad I came here tonight," she said, smiling. "I wasn't quite decided, but I thought I'd
better, as I had some things to tell Mrs. Peck for next Sunday's Trumpet. If I hadn't come,
I wouldn't have met you. You needn't escort me to Madame Delmonti. I'd rather go by myself.
I'm not a bit a ceremonious person. Good-by. Be sure and come and see me."

She rustled away, exchanged farewells with Madame Delmonti, and, by a movement of her head
in his direction, appeared to be speaking of Faraday; then joining a fur-muffled female figure
near the doorway, swept like a princess out of the room.

For a week after Faraday's meeting with Miss. Genevieve Ryan, he had no time to think of giving
himself the pleasure of calling upon that fair and flattering young lady. The position which
he had come out from Boston to fill was not an unusually exacting one, but Faraday, who was
troubled with a New England conscience, and a certain slowness in adapting himself to new conditions
of life, was too engrossed in mastering the duties of his clerkship to think of loitering about
the chariot wheels of beauty.

By the second week, however, he had shaken down into the new rut, and a favorable opportunity
presenting itself in a sunny Sunday afternoon, he donned his black coat and high hat and repaired
to the mansion of Barney Ryan, on California Street.

When Faraday approached the house, he felt quite timid, so imposingly did this great structure
loom up from the simpler dwellings which surrounded it. Barney Ryan had built himself a palace,
and ever since the day he had first moved into it he had been anxious to move out. The ladies
of his family would not allow this, and so Barney endured his grandeur as best he might. It
was a great wooden house, with immense bay windows thrown out on every side, and veiled within
by long curtains of heavy lace. The sweep of steps that spread so proudly from the portico
was flanked by two sleeping lions in stone, both appearing, by the savage expressions which
distorted their visages, to be suffering from terrifying dreams. In the garden the spiked foliage
of the dark, slender dracænas and the fringed fans of giant filamentosas grew luxuriantly with
tropical effect.

The large drawing-room, long, and looking longer with its wide mirrors, was even more golden
than Mrs. Delmonti's. There were gold moldings about the mirrors and gold mountings to the
chairs. In deserts of gold frames appeared small oases of oil-painting. Faraday, hat in hand,
stood some time in wavering indecision, wondering in which of the brocaded and gilded chairs
he would look least like a king in an historical play. He was about to decide in favor of a
pale blue satin settee, when a rustle behind him made him turn and behold Miss. Genevieve magnificent
in a trailing robe of the faintest rose-pink and pearls, with diamond ear-rings in her ears,
and the powder that she had hastily rubbed on her face still lying white on her long lashes.
She smiled her rare smile as she greeted him, and sitting down in one of the golden chairs,
leaned her head against the back, and said, looking at him from under lowered lids:

"Well, I thought you were never coming!"

Faraday, greatly encouraged by this friendly reception, made his excuses, and set the conversation
going. After the weather had been exhausted, the topic of the Californian in his social aspect
came up. Faraday, with some timidity, ventured a question on the fashionable life in San Francisco.
A shade passed over Miss. Ryan's open countenance.

"You know, Mr. Faraday," she said, explanatorily, "I'm not exactly in society."

"No?" murmured Faraday, mightily surprised, and wondering what she was going to say next.

"Not exactly," continued Miss. Ryan, moistening her red under lip in a pondering moment--"not
exactly in fash'nable society. Of course we have our friends. But gentlemen from the East that
I've met have always been so surprised when I told them that I didn't go out in the most fash'nable
circles. They always thought any one with money could get right in it here."

"Yes?" said Faraday, whose part of the conversation appeared to be deteriorating into monosyllables.

"Well, you know, that's not the case at all. With all popper's money, we've never been able
to get a real good footing. It seems funny to outsiders, especially as popper and mommer have
never been divorced or anything. We've just lived quietly right here in the city always. But,"
she said, looking tentatively at Faraday to see how he was going to take the statement, "my
father's a Northerner. He went back and fought in the war."

"You must be very proud of that," said Faraday, feeling that he could now hazard a remark with
safety.

This simple comment, however, appeared to surprise the enigmatic Miss. Ryan.

"Proud of it?" she queried, looking in suspended doubt at Faraday. "Oh, of course I'm proud
that he was brave, and didn't run away or get wounded; but if he'd been a Southerner we would
have been in society now." She looked pensively at Faraday. "All the fashionable people are
Southerners, you know. We would have been, too, if we'd have been Southerners. It's being Northerners
that really has been such a drawback."

"But your sympathies," urged Faraday, "aren't they with the North?"

Miss. Ryan ran the pearl fringe of her tea-gown through her large, handsome hands. "I guess
so," she said, indifferently, as if she was considering the subject for the first time; "but
you can't expect me to have any very violent sympathies about a war that was dead and buried
before I was born."

"I don't believe you're a genuine Northerner, or Southerner either," said Faraday, laughing.

"I guess not," said the young lady, with the same placid indifference. "An English gentleman
whom I knew real well last year said the sympathy of the English was all with the Southerners.
He said they were the most refined people in this country. He said they were thought a great
deal of in England?" She again looked at Faraday with her air of deprecating query, as if she
half expected him to contradict her.

"Who was this extraordinarily enlightened being?" asked Faraday.

"Mr. Harold Courtney, an elegant Englishman. They said his grandfather was a Lord--Lord Hastings--but
you never can be sure about those things. I saw quite a good deal of him, and I sort of liked
him, but he was rather quiet. I think if he'd been an American we would have thought him dull.
Here they just said it was reserve. We all thought----"

A footstep in the hall outside arrested her recital. The door of the room was opened, and a
handsome bonneted head appeared in the aperture.

"Oh, Gen," said this apparition, hastily--"excuse me; I didn't know you had your company in there?"

"Come in, mommer," said Miss. Ryan, politely; "I want to make you acquainted with Mr. Faraday.
He's the gentleman I met at Madame Delmonti's the other evening."

Mrs. Ryan, accompanied by a rich rustling of silk, pushed open the door, revealing herself
to Faraday's admiring eyes as a fine-looking woman, fresh in tint, still young, of a stately
figure and imposing presence. She was admirably dressed in a walking costume of dark green,
and wore a little black jet bonnet on her slightly waved bright brown hair. She met the visitor
with an extended hand and a frank smile of open pleasure.

"Genevieve spoke to me of you, Mr. Faraday," she said, settling down into a chair and removing
her gloves. "I'm very glad you managed to get around here."

Faraday expressed his joy at having been able to accomplish the visit.

"We don't have so many agreeable gentlemen callers," said Mrs. Ryan, "that we can afford to
overlook a new one. If you've been in society, you've perhaps noticed, Mr. Faraday, that gentlemen
are somewhat scarce."

Faraday said he had not been in society, therefore had not observed the deficiency. Mrs. Ryan,
barely allowing him time to complete his sentence, continued, vivaciously:

"Well, Mr. Faraday, you'll see it later. We entertainers don't know what we are going to do
for the lack of gentlemen. When we give parties we ask the young gentlemen, and they all come;
but they won't dance, they won't talk, they won't do anything but eat and drink and they never
think of paying their party calls. It's disgraceful, Mr. Faraday," said Mrs. Ryan, smiling
brightly--"disgraceful!"

Faraday said he had heard that in the East the hostess made the same complaint. Mrs. Ryan,
with brilliant fixed eyes, gave him a breathing-space to reply in, and then started off again,
with a confirmatory nod of her head:

"Precisely, Mr. Faraday--just the case here. At Genevieve's début party--an elegant affair--Mrs.
Peck said she'd never seen a finer entertainment in this city--canvas floors, four musicians,
champagne flowing like water. My husband, Mr. Faraday believes in giving the best at his entertainments;
there's not a mean bone in Barney Ryan's body. Why, the men all got into the smoking-room,
lit their cigars, and smoked there, and in the ballroom were the girls sitting around the walls,
and not more than half a dozen partners for them. I tell you, Mr. Ryan was mad. He just went
up there, and told them to get up and dance or get up and go home----he didn't much care which.
There's no fooling with Mr. Ryan when he's roused. You remember how mad popper was that night,
Gen?"

Miss. Ryan nodded an assent, her eyes full of smiling reminiscence. She had listened to her
mother's story with unmoved attention and evident appreciation. "Next time we have a party,"
she said, looking smilingly at Faraday, "Mr. Faraday can come and see for himself."

"I guess it'll be a long time before we have another like that," said Mrs. Ryan, somewhat grimly,
rising as Faraday rose to take his leave. "Not but what," she added, hastily, fearing her remark
had seemed ungracious, "we'll hope Mr. Faraday will come without waiting for parties."

"But we've had one since then," said Miss. Ryan, as she placed her hand in his in the pressure
of farewell, "that laid all over that first one."

Having been pressed to call by both mother and daughter, and having told himself that Genevieve
Ryan was "an interesting study," Faraday, after some hesitation, paid a second visit to the
Ryan mansion. Upon this occasion the Chinese servant, murmuring unintelligibly, showed a rooted
aversion to his entering. Faraday, greatly at sea, wondering vaguely if the terrible Barney
Ryan had issued a mandate to his hireling to refuse him admittance, was about to turn and depart,
when the voice of Mrs. Ryan in the hall beyond arrested him. Bidden to open the door, the Mongolian
reluctantly did so and Faraday was admitted.

"Sing didn't want to let you in," said Mrs. Ryan when they had gained the long gold drawing-room,
"because Genevieve was out. He never lets any gentlemen in when she's not at home. He thinks
I'm too old to have them come to see me."

Then they sat down, and after a little preliminary chat on the Chinese character and the Californian
climate, Mrs. Ryan launched forth into her favorite theme of discourse.

"Genevieve will be so sorry to miss you," she said; "she's always so taken by Eastern gentlemen.
They admire her, too, immensely. I can't tell you of the compliments we've heard directly and
indirectly that they've paid her. Of course I can see that she's an unusually fine-looking
girl, and very accomplished. Mr. Ryan and I have spared nothing in her education--nothing.
At Madame de Vivier's academy for young ladies--one of the most select in the State--Madame's
husband's one of the French nobility, and she always had to support him--Genevieve took every
extra--music, languages, and drawing. Professor Rodriguez, who taught her the guitar, said
that never outside of Spain had he heard such a touch. 'Señora,' he says to me--that's his
way of expressing himself, and it sounds real cute the way he says it--'Señora, is there not
some Spanish blood in this child? No one without Spanish blood could touch the strings that
way.' Afterwards when Demaroni taught her the mandolin, it was just the same. He could not
believe she had not had teaching before. Then Madame Mezzenott gave her a term's lessons on
the bandurria, and she said there never was such talent; she might have made a fortune on the
concert stage."

"Yes, undoubtedly," Faraday squeezed in, as Mrs. Ryan drew a breath.

"Indeed, Mr. Faraday, everybody has remarked her talents. It isn't you alone. All the Eastern
gentlemen we have met have said that the musical talents of the Californian young ladies were
astonishing They all agree that Genevieve's musical genius is remarkable. Everybody declares
that there is no one--not among the Spaniards themselves--who sings La Paloma as Gen does.
Professor Spighetti instructed her in that. He was a wonderful teacher. I never saw such a
method. But we had to give him up because he fell in love with Gen. That's the worst of it--the
teachers are always falling in love with her; and with her prospects and position we naturally
expect something better. Of course it's been very hard to keep her. I say to Mr. Ryan, as each
winter comes to an end, 'Well, popper, another season's over and we've still got our Gen.'
We feel that we can't be selfish and hope to keep her always, and, with so many admirers, we
realize that we must soon lose her, and try to get accustomed to the idea."

"Of course, of course," murmured Faraday, sympathetically, mentally picturing Mrs. Ryan keeping
away the suitors as Rizpah kept the eagles and vultures off her dead sons.

"There was a Mr. Courtney who was very attentive last year. His grandfather was an English
lord. We had to buy a Peerage to find out if he was genuine, and, as he was, we had him quite
often to the house. He paid Genevieve a good deal of attention, but toward the end of the season
he said he had to go back to England and see his grandfather--his father was dead--and left
without saying anything definite. He told me though, that he was coming back. I fully expect
he will, though Mr. Ryan doesn't seem to think so. Genevieve felt rather put out about it for
a time. She thought he hadn't been upright to see her so constantly and not say anything definite.
But she doesn't understand the subserviency of Englishmen to their elders. You know, we have
none of that in this country. If my son Eddie wanted to marry a typewriter, Mr. Ryan could
never prevent it. I fully expect to see Mr. Courtney again. I'd like you to meet him, Mr. Faraday.
I think you'd agree very well. He's just such a quiet, reserved young man as you."

When, after this interview, Faraday descended the broad steps between the sleeping lions, he
did not feel so good-tempered as he had done after his first visit. He recalled to mind having
heard that Mrs. Ryan, before her marriage, had been a schoolteacher, and he said to himself
that if she had no more sense then than she had now, her pupils must have received a fearful
and wonderful education.

At Madame Delmonti's conversazione, given a few evenings later, Faraday again saw Miss. Ryan.
On the first of these occasions this independent young lady was dressed simply in a high-necked
gown and a hat. This evening with her habitual disregard of custom and convention, some whim
had caused her to array herself in full gala attire, and, habited in a gorgeous costume of
white silk and yellow velvet, with a glimmer of diamonds round the low neck, she was startling
in her large magnificence.

Jack Faraday approached her somewhat awe-stricken, but her gravely boyish manner immediately
put him at his ease. Talking with her over commonplaces, he wondered what she would say if
she knew of her mother's conversation with him. As if in answer to the unspoken thought, she
suddenly said fixing him with intent eyes:

"Mommer said she told you of Mr. Courtney. Do you think he'll come back?"

Faraday, his breath taken away by the suddenness of the attack, felt the blood run to his hair,
and stammered a reply.

"Well, you know," she said, leaning toward him confidentially, "I don't. Mommer is possessed
with the idea that he will. But neither popper nor I think so. I got sort of annoyed with the
way he acted--hanging about for a whole winter, and then running away to see his grandfather,
like a little boy ten years old! I like men that are their own masters. But I suppose I would
have married him. You see, he would have been a lord when his grandfather died. It was genuine--we
saw it in the Peerage."

She looked into Faraday's eyes. Her own were as clear and deep as mountain springs. Was Miss.
Genevieve Ryan the most absolutely honest and outspoken young woman that had ever lived, or
was she some subtle and unusual form of Pacific Slope coquette?

"Popper was quite mad about it," she continued. "He thought Mr. Courtney was an ordinary sort
of person, anyway. I didn't. I just thought him dull, and I suppose he couldn't help that.
Mommer wanted to go over to England last summer. She thought we might stumble on him over there.
But popper wouldn't let her do it. He sent us to Alaska instead." She paused, and gave a smiling
bow to an acquaintance. "Doesn't Mrs. Peck look sweet tonight?" She designated the society
editress of the Morning Trumpet, whose fragile figure was encased in a pale blue Empire costume.
"And that lady over by the door, with the gold crown in her hair, the stout one in red, is
Mrs. Wheatley, a professional Delsarte teacher. She's a great friend of mine and gives me Delsarte
twice a week."

And Miss. Genevieve Ryan nodded to the dispenser of "Delsarte," a large and florid woman, who,
taking her stand under a spreading palm tree, began to declaim "The Portrait" of Owen Meredith,
and in the recital of the dead lady's iniquitous conduct the conversation was brought to a close.

From its auspicious opening, Faraday's acquaintance with the Ryans ripened and developed with
a speed which characterizes the growth of friendship and of fruit in the genial Californian
atmosphere. Almost before he felt that he had emerged from the position of a stranger he had
slipped into that of an intimate. He fell into the habit of visiting the Ryan mansion on California
Street on Sunday afternoons. It became a custom for him to dine there en famille at least once
a week. The simplicity and light-hearted good-nature of these open-handed and kindly people
touched and charmed him. There was not a trace of the snob in Faraday. He accepted the lavish
and careless hospitality of Barney Ryan's "palatial residence," as the newspapers delighted
to call it, with a spirit as frankly pleased as that in which it was offered.

He came of an older civilization than that which had given Barney Ryan's daughter her frankness
and her force, and it did not cross his mind that the heiress of millions might cast tender
eyes upon the penniless sons of New England farmers. He said to himself with impatient recklessness
that he ought not to and would not fall in love with her. There was too great a distance between
them. It would be King Cophetua and the beggar-maid reversed. Clerks at one hundred and fifty
dollars a month were not supposed to aspire to only daughters of bonanza kings in the circle
from which Faraday had come. So he visited the Ryans, assuring himself that he was a friend
of the family, who would dance at Miss Genevieve's wedding with the lightest of hearts.

The Chinese butler had grown familiar with Faraday's attractive countenance and his unabbreviated
English, when late one warm and sunny afternoon the young man pulled the bell of the great
oaken door of the Ryans' lion-guarded home. In answer to his queries for the ladies, he learned
that they were out; but the Mongolian functionary, after surveying him charily through the
crack of the door, admitted that Mr. Ryan was within, and conducted the visitor into his presence.

Barney Ryan, suffering from a slight sprain in his ankle, sat at ease in a little sitting-room
in the back of the house. Mr. Ryan, being irritable and in some pain, the women-folk had relaxed
the severity of their dominion, and allowed him to sit unchecked in his favorite costume for
the home circle--shirt sleeves and a tall beaver hat. Beside him on the table stood bare and
undecorated array of bottles, a glass, and a silver water-pitcher.

Mr. Ryan was now some years beyond sixty, but had that tremendous vigor of frame and constitution
that distinguished the pioneers--an attribute strangely lacking in their puny and degenerate
sons. This short and chunky old man, with his round, thick head, bristling hair and beard,
and huge red neck, had still a fiber as tough as oak. He looked coarse, uncouth, and stupid,
but in his small gray eyes shone the alert and unconquerable spirit which marked the pioneers
as the giants of the West, and which had carried him forward over every obstacle to the summit
of his ambitions. Barney Ryan was restless in his confinement; for, despite his age and the
completeness of his success, his life was still with the world of men where the bull-necked
old miner was a king. At home the women rather domineered over him, and unconsciously made
him feel his social deficiencies. At home, too, the sorrow and the pride of his life were always
before him--his son, a weak and dissipated boy; and his daughter, who had inherited his vigor
and his spirit with a beauty that had descended to her from some forgotten peasant girl of
the Irish bogs.

Faraday, with his power of listening interminably, and his intelligent comments, was a favorite
of old Ryan's. He greeted him with a growling welcome; and then, civilities being interchanged,
called to the Chinaman for another glass. This menial, rubbing off the long mirrors that decorated
the walls, would not obey the mandate till it had been roared at him by the wounded lion in
a tone which made the chandelier rattle.

"I never can make those infernal idiots understand me," said old Ryan, plaintively. "They won't
do a thing I tell them. It takes the old lady to manage 'em. She makes them skip."

Then after some minutes of discourse on more or less uninteresting matters, the weary old man,
glad of a listener, launched forth into domestic topics.

"Gen and the old lady are out buying new togs. I got a letter here that'll astonish them when
they get back. It's from that English cuss, Courtney. D'ye ever hear about him? He was hanging
about Genevieve all last winter. And this letter says he's coming back, that his grandfather's
dead, and he's a lord now, and he's coming back. Do you mind that now, Faraday?" he said, looking
with eyes full of humor at the young man.

Faraday expressed a sharp surprise.

"You know, Jack," continued the old man, "we're trained up to having these high-priced Englishmen
come out here and eat our dinners, and sleep in our spare rooms, and drink our wines and go
home, and when they meet us there forget they've ever seen us before; but we ain't trained
up to havin' 'em come back this way, and it's hard to get accustomed to it."

"It's not surprising," said Faraday, coldly.

"I'm not so dead sure of that. But I can tell you the old lady'll be wild about this."

"Does Mrs. Ryan like him so much?" said the visitor, still coldly.

"All women like a lord, and Mrs. Ryan ain't different from the rest of her sex. She's dead
stuck on Gen marrying him. I'm not myself, Jack. I'm no Anglomaniac; an American's good enough
for me. I'm not spoiling to see my money going to patch up the roof of the ancestral castle
of the Courtneys, or pay their ancestral debts--not by a long chalk."

"Do you think he's coming back to borrow money from you to pay off the ancestral debts?" asked
Faraday.

"Not to borrow, Jack. Oh no, not to borrow--to get it for keeps--it, and Genevieve with it.
And I don't just see how I'm to prevent it. Gen don't seem to care much, but the old lady's
got it on her mind that she'd like to have a lord in the family, no matter how high they come;
and she can work on Gen. Last summer she wanted to go after him--wanted to track him to his
lair; but I thought she might's well stop there, and put m' foot down. Gen don't seem to care
about him one way or the other, but then 'Lady Genevieve' sounds pretty nice----"

Here a rustle of millinery, approaching through the drawing-room beyond, cut short old Ryan's
confidences. Faraday stood up to receive the ladies, who entered jubilant and unwearied from
an afternoon's shopping. Genevieve, a magnificent princess, with the air of fashion given by
perfectly setting clothes, much brown fur and velvet, a touch of yellow lace, and a quantity
of fresh violets pinned to her corsage, looked as if she would make a very fine Lady Genevieve.

As soon as she heard the news she demanded the letter, and perused it intently, Faraday covertly
watching her. Raising her eyes, she met his and said, with a little mocking air, "Well, Mr.
Faraday, and what do you think of that?"

"That your mother seems to have been right," said Faraday, steadily eyeing her. An expression
of chagrin and disappointment, rapid but unmistakable, crossed her face, dimming its radiance
like a breath on a mirror. She gave a little toss to her head, and turning away toward an adjacent
looking-glass, took off her veil and settled her hat.

Mrs. Ryan watched her with glowing pride already seeing her in fancy a member of the British
aristocracy; but old Ryan looked rather downcast, as he generally did when confronted by the
triumphant gorgeousness of the feminine members of his household. Faraday, too, experienced
a sudden depression of spirits so violent and so uncalled for that if he had had room for any
other feeling he would have been intensely surprised. Barney Ryan, at the prospect of having
to repair the breaches in the Courtney exchequer and ancestral roof-tree, may have experienced
a pardonable dejection. But why should Faraday, who assured himself a dozen times a day that
he merely admired Miss. Genevieve, as any man might admire a charming and handsome girl, feel
so desperate a despondency?

To prove to himself that his gloom did not rise from the cause that he knew it did rise from,
Faraday continued to be a constant guest at the Ryan mansion, continued to see Miss. Genevieve
at Madame Delmonti's and at the other small social gatherings, where the presentable young
New Englander found himself quite a lion. When Mrs. Ryan saw him alone she flattered his superior
intelligence and experience of the world by asking his opinion of the approaching Lord Hastings's
matrimonial plans. This frank and outspoken lady was on the thorns of uncertainty, Lord Hastings's
flight on his former visit having shaken her faith in him. Quite unconsciously she impressed
upon Faraday how completely both she and Genevieve had come to trust him as a tried friend.

With the exaltation of a knight of old, Faraday felt that their trust would never be misplaced.
He answered Mrs. Ryan's anxious queries with all the honesty of the calmest friendship. Alone
in the great gold drawing-room, he talked to Genevieve on books, on music, on fashion, on society--on
all subjects but that of love. And all the while he felt like the nightingale who sings its
sweetest music while pressing its breast against a thorn.

Lord Hastings seemed to have lost no time in repairing to the side of the fair lady who was
supposed to be the object of his fondest devotions, and whom destiny appeared to have selected
as the renovator of Courtney Manor. Four weeks from the day Faraday had heard of his intended
visit, the Bostonian received a letter from Mrs. Ryan bidding him to dinner to meet the illustrious
guest. It seemed to Faraday that to go to see the newcomer in converse with Genevieve, beautiful
in her costliest robes, to view the approving smiles of Mrs. Ryan, and perhaps the happy blushes
of Miss. Ryan, was the manly upright course for one who could never be more than the avowed
friend and silent worshipper of Barney Ryan's only daughter.

Arriving ten minutes late, he found the party already at the table. It was an inflexible rule
of Barney Ryan's to sit down to dinner at the stroke of half-past six, whether his guests were
assembled or not--a rule which even his wife's cajoleries and commands were powerless to combat.

Tonight the iron old man might well regard with pride the luxury and splendor that crowned
a turbulent career begun in nipping poverty. The round table, glowing beneath the lights of
the long crystal chandeliers, sparkled with cut-glass, and shone with antique silverware, while
in the center a mass of pale purple orchids spread their fragile crêpe-like petals from a fringe
of fern. Opposite him, still unfaded, superbly dressed, and admirably self-possessed, was his
smiling consort, toward whom, whatever his pride in her might have been, his feelings this
evening were somewhat hostile, as the ambitious and determined lady had forced him to don regulation
evening dress, arrayed in which Barney's peace of mind and body both fled.

On either side of the table sat his son and daughter, the latter handsomer than Faraday had
ever seen her, her heavy dress of ivory-tinted silk no whiter than her neck, a diamond aigret
trembling like spray in her hair. Her brother Eddie, a year and a half her senior, looked as
if none of the blood of this vigorous strong-thewed, sturdy stock could run in his veins. He
was a pale and sickly looking lad, with a weak, vulgar face, thin hair and red eyelids. Faraday
had only seen him once or twice before, and judged from remarks made to him by acquaintances
of the family that Eddie did not often honor the parental roof with his presence. Eddie's irregular
career appeared to be the one subject on which the family maintained an immovable and melancholy
reserve. The disappointment in his only son was the bitter drop in Barney Ryan's cup.

There were other guests at the table. Faraday received a coy bow from Mrs. Peck, who had given
her hair an extra bleaching for this occasion, till her pinched and powdered little face looked
out from under an orange-colored thatch; Mrs. Wheatley was there too, with a suggestion of
large white shoulders shining through veilings of black gauze; and with an air of stately pride,
Mrs. Ryan presented him to Lord Hastings. This young man, sitting next Genevieve, was a tall,
fair, straight-featured Englishman of gravely unresponsive manners. In the severe perfection
of his immaculate evening dress he looked a handsome, well-bred young fellow of twenty-five or six.

As the late guest dropped into his seat, the interrupted conversation regathered and flowed
again. Barney Ryan said nothing. He never spoke while eating, and rarely talked when women
were present. Genevieve too was quiet, responding with a gently absent smile, when her cavalier,
turning upon her his cold and expressionless steely-blue eyes, addressed to her some short
regulation remark on the weather, or the boredom of his journey across the plains. The phlegmatic
calm of his demeanor remained intact even under the coquettish onslaughts of Mrs. Peck and
Mrs. Wheatley, who extracted from him with wheedling perseverance his opinions on the State,
the climate, and the country. Lord Hastings replied with iron-bound and unsmiling brevity,
his wide cold glance resting with motionless attention upon the painted physiognomy of Mrs.
Peck and the broad and buxom one of Mrs. Wheatley, and his head turning with dignified difficulty
in his exceedingly high and tight collar, as one and the other assailed him with queries. Meanwhile
the object of his journey, slowly moving her great fan of white ostrich feathers, looked across
the table at Faraday and made a little surreptitious moue.

The conversation soon became absorbed by the two married ladies, Faraday, and Lord Hastings.
Only the Ryans were silent, Genevieve now and then throwing a lazy sentence into the vortex
of talk, and Mrs. Ryan being occupied in lending a proud ear to the coruscations of wit that
sparkled around the board, or in making covert gestures to the soft-footed Mongols, who moved
with deft noiselessness about the table. Eddie Ryan, like his father, rarely spoke in society.
In the glare of the chandelier he sat like a strange uncomfortable guest, taking no notice
of any one. Toward the end of the feast he conversed in urgent whispers with his mother--a
conversation which ended in her surreptitiously giving him her keys under the edge of the table.
Before coffee, Eddie left, on the plea of an important engagement, retiring through the drawing-room,
softly jingling the keys.

After this dinner, when Lord Hastings's presence had banished all his doubts, when the young
Englishman's attractive appearance had impressed itself upon his jealous eye, and Genevieve's
gentle indifference had seemed to him but a modest form of encouragement. Faraday found but
little time to pay visits to the hospitable home of Barney Ryan.

The family friend that they had all so warmly welcomed and taken to their hearts withdrew himself
quietly but firmly from their cheerful circle. When, at rare intervals, he did drop in upon
them, he pleaded important business engagements as the reason of his inability to accept their
numerous invitations to dinners and theater parties. After these mendacious statements he would
wend a gloomy way homeward to his Pine Street boarding-house, and there spend the evening pretending
to read, and cursing the fate which had ever brought him within the light of Genevieve's beaux
yeux. The fable of being the family friend was quite shattered. Faraday had capitulated.

Nearly two months after the dinner, when rumors of Genevieve Ryan's engagement to Lord Hastings
were in lively circulation, Faraday called at the lion-guarded mansion on California Street,
and, in answering to his regulation request for the ladies, received the usual unintelligible
Chinese rejoinder, and was shown into the gold drawing-room. There, standing in front of a
long mirror, looking at her skirts with an eye of pondering criticism, was Miss Genevieve,
dressed to go out. She caught sight of him in the glass, turned abruptly, and came forward,
a color in her face.

"Is that you?" she said, holding out her hand. "I am so glad. I thought it was somebody else."
Having thus, with her customary candor, signified to Faraday that she was expecting Lord Hastings,
she sat down facing him, and said, abruptly, "Why haven't you been here for so long?"

Faraday made the usual excuses, and did quail before her cold and steady eyes.

"That's rather funny," she said, as he concluded "for now you're used to your new position,
and it must go more easily, and yet you have less time to see your friends than you did at first."

Faraday made more excuses, and wondered that she should take a cruel pleasure in such small
teasing.

"I thought p'r'aps," she said, still regarding him with an unflinching scrutiny, her face grave
and almost hard, "that you'd begun to find us too Western, that the novelty had worn off, that
our ways were too--too--what shall I say?--too wild and woolly."

A flush of anger ran over Faraday's face. "Your suppositions were neither just nor true," he
said, coldly.

"Oh, I don't know," she continued, with a careless movement of her head, and speaking in the
high, indifferent tone that a woman adopts when she wishes to be exasperating; "you needn't
get mad. Lots of Eastern people feel that way. They come out here and see us constantly, and
make friends with us, and then go back and laugh at us, and tell their friends what barbarians
we are. It's customary, and nothing to be ashamed of."

"Do you suppose that I am that sort of an Eastern person?" asked Faraday, quietly.

"I don't know," she said, doubtfully. "I didn't think you were at first, but now----"

"But now you do. Why?"

"Because you don't come here any more," she said, with a little air of triumph. "You're tired
of us. The novelty is over and so are the visits."

Faraday arose, too bitterly annoyed for speech. Genevieve, rising too, and touching her skirts
with arranging hand, continued, apparently unconscious of the storm she was rousing:

"And yet it seems odd that you should find such a difference. Lord Hastings, now, who's English,
and much more conventional, thinks the people here just as refined and particular as any other
Americans."

"It's evident," said Faraday, in a voice roughened with anger, "that Lord Hastings's appreciation
of the refinement of the Americans is only equaled by your admiration for the talents of the
English."

"I do like them," said Genevieve, dubiously, shaking her head, as if she was admitting a not
entirely creditable taste, and looking away from him.

There was a moment's silence. Faraday fastened his eyes upon her in a look of passionate confession
that in its powerful pleading drew her own back to his.

"You're as honest as you are cruel," he said, almost in a whisper.

She made no reply, but turned her head sharply away, as if in sudden embarrassment. Then, in
answer to his conventionally murmured good-byes, she looked back, and he saw her face radiant,
alight, with the most beautiful smile trembling on the lips. The splendor of this look seemed
to him a mute expression of her happiness--of love reciprocated, ambition realized--and in
it he read his own doom. He turned blindly round to pick up his hat; the door behind him was
opened, and there, handsome, debonair, fresh as a May morning, stood Lord Hastings, hat in hand.

"I hope you're not vexed, Miss. Ryan," said this young man, "but I'm very much afraid I'm just
a bit late."

After this Faraday thought it quite unnecessary to visit Barney Ryan's "palatial mansion" for
some time. Genevieve's engagement would soon be announced, and then he would have to go and
offer his congratulations. As to whether he would dance at her wedding with a light heart--that
was another matter. He assured himself that she was making a splendid and eminently suitable
marriage. With her beauty and money and true simple heart she would deck the fine position
which the Englishman could give her. He wished her every happiness, but that he should stand
by and watch the progress of the courtship seemed to him an unnecessary twisting of the knife
in the wound. Even the endurance of New England human nature has its limits, and Faraday could
stand no more. So he refused an invitation to a tea from Mrs. Ryan, and one to a dinner and
another to a small musical from Miss. Ryan, and alone in his Pine Street lodgings, for the
first time in his life, read the "social columns" with a throbbing heart.

One Saturday afternoon, two weeks from the day that he had last seen Genevieve, he sat in his
room trying to read. He had left the office early, and though it was still some hours before
dark, a heavy unremitting rain had enveloped the afternoon in a premature twilight. The perpetual
run of water from a break in the gutter near his window sounded drearily through the depressing
history of the woes and disappointments of David Grieve. The gloom of the book and the afternoon
was settling upon Faraday with the creeping stealthiness of a chill, when a knock sounded upon
his door, and one of the servants without acquainted him with the surprising piece of intelligence
that a lady was waiting to see him in the sitting-room below.

As he entered the room, dim with the heavy somberness of the leaden atmosphere, he saw his
visitor standing looking out of the window--a tall, broad-shouldered, small-waisted striking
figure, with a neat black turban crowning her closely braided hair. At his step she turned,
and revealed the gravely handsome face of Genevieve Ryan. He made no attempt to take her hand,
but murmured a regulation sentence of greeting; then, looking into her eyes, saw for the first
time that handsome face marked with strong emotion. Miss. Ryan was shaken from her phlegmatic
calm; her hand trembled on the back of the chair before her; the little knot of violets in
her dress vibrated to the beating of her heart.

"This is not a very conventional thing to do," she said, with her usual ignoring of all preamble,
"but I can't help that. I had something to talk to you about, Mr. Faraday, and as you would
not come to see me, I had to come to see you."

"What is it that you wanted to see me about?" asked Faraday, standing motionless, and feeling
in the sense of oppression and embarrassment that seemed to weigh upon them both the premonition
of an approaching crisis.

She made no answer for a moment, but stood looking down, as if in an effort to choose her words
or collect her thoughts, the violets in her dress rising and falling with her quickened breathing.

"It's rather hard to know how to say--anything," she said at length.

"If I can do anything for you," said the young man, "you know it would always be a happiness
to me to serve you."

"Oh, it's not a message or a favor," she said, hastily. "I only wanted to say something"--she
paused in great embarrassment--"but it's even more queer more unusual, than my coming here."

Faraday made no response, and for a space both were silent. Then she said, speaking with a
peculiar low distinctness:

"The last time I saw you I seemed very disagreeable. I wanted to make sure of something. I
wanted to make sure that you were fond of me--to surprise it out of you. Well--I did it. You
are fond of me. I made you show it to me." She raised her eyes, brilliant and dark, and looked
into his. "If you were to swear to me now that I was wrong I would know you were not telling
the truth," she said, with proud defiance. "You love me."

"Yes," said Faraday, slowly, "I do. What then?"

"What then?" she repeated. "Why do you go away--go away from me?"

"Because," he answered, "I am too much of a man to live within sight of the woman I love and
can never hope for."

"Can never hope for?" she exclaimed, aghast. "Are you--are you married?"

The sudden horror on her face was a strange thing for Faraday to see.

"No," he said, "I am not married."

"Then, did she tell you that you never could hope for her?" said Miss. Genevieve Ryan, in a
tremulous voice.

"No. It was not necessary. I knew myself."

"You did yourself a wrong, and her too," she broke out, passionately. "You should have told
her, and given her a chance to say--to say what she has a right to say, without making her
come to you, with her love in her hand, to offer it to you as if she was afraid you were going
to throw it back in her face. It's bad enough being a woman anyway, but to have the feelings
of a woman, and then have to say a thing like this--it's--it's--ghastly."

"Genevieve!" breathed Faraday.

"Why don't you understand?" she continued, desperately. "You won't see it. You make me come
here and tell it to you this way. I may be badly mannered and unconventional, but I have feelings
and pride like other women. But what else could I do?"

Her voice suddenly broke into soft appeal, and she held out her hands toward him with a gesture
as spontaneous in its pleading tenderness as though made by a child. Faraday was human. He
dashed away the chair that stood between them and clasped the trembling hands in his.

"Why is it," she asked, looking into his face with shining troubled eyes--"why is it you acted
this way? Was it Lord Hastings? I refused him two weeks ago. I thought I'd marry him once,
but that was before I knew you. Then I waited for you, and you didn't come, and I wrote to
you, and you wouldn't come. And so I had to come and tell you myself, and it's been something
dreadful."

Faraday made no response, but feeling the smooth hands curled warm inside his, he stood listening
to those soft accents that issued with the sweetness that love alone lends to women's voices
from lips he had thought as far beyond his reach as the key of the rainbow.

"Do you think it was awful for me to do it?" she queried, in whispering anxiety.

He shook his head.

"Well," she said, laughing a little and turning her head half away, as her former embarrassment
began to reassert itself over her subsiding nervousness, "I've often wished I was a man, but
if it's always as awful as that to propose to a person, I'm quite content to be a woman."

GIDEON'S KNOCK

BY

MARY HALLECK FOOTE

Written for THE SPINNERS' BOOK OF FICTION

All Rights Reserved

BY A curious coincidence, whenever George Fleming was translated to a wider berth, it was my
luck to succeed him in the job he had just quitted. This had happened more than once, in the
chances and changes that befall the younger men in the mining profession, before we began to
jolly each other about it--always at long range.

When I heard he had resigned from the Consolidated Resumption, to everybody's surprise, at
a time of great prosperity to the mine, I hailed my chance and congratulated myself that I
should speedily be asked to fill his place: and I was!

I wrote him on the spot a playful letter, alluding to my long, stern chase and begging him
to hold on this time till I could shake him by the hand; I had come to have a personal sentiment
toward him apart from the natural desire to meet face to face the author of my continued advancement.
But to this letter I received no word of reply.

His silence haunted me, rather--I thought about him a good deal while I was closing up my affairs
in other directions before taking over the Consolidated Resumption. Meanwhile the company's
cashier, Joshua Dean, a man of trust but small initiative, was filling the interregnum.

I found him living alone in the manager's house with the Flemings' Chinese cook as man of all
work. The Resumption has never tolerated a boarding-house or a village or compound within sight
of its official windows. Its first manager was a son of the chief owner, who built his house
in the style of a gentleman's country-seat, small but exclusive and quite apart from the work.
I liked the somber seclusion of the place, planted deep with trees of about twenty years' growth,
showing their delicate, changing greens against the darker belt of pines. But its aspect increased,
if anything, that uneasy sensation, like a cold wind in my back, which I still had in thinking
of Fleming.

I had driven out to dine with Dean on the evening of my arrival. It was the last week in January;
there had been much rain already for the foot-hills. Wet sprays from the untrimmed rose hedges
disputed my passage through the inner gate. Discolored pine-needles lay in sodden drifts on
the neglected grass. The hydrant leaked frozen puddles down the brick-paved walk. Mounting
the veranda steps I laid my hand on the knocker, when an old Chinese servant popped his head
out at a side-door and violently beckoned me in that way.

Dean, as I knew, had made his home with the Flemings for some time before their departure.
After a few talks with him and a survey of the house I decided we might venture to continue
the arrangement without getting in each other's way. It was a house peculiarly adapted to a
solitude à deux. There was no telephone nearer than the office. I argued that Fleming was a
man who could protect himself from frivolous intrusions, and his wife could have had but little
in common with her neighbors in the village.

He had resigned on account of her health, I was told. It must have been a hasty flitting or
an inconclusive one. The odd, attractive rooms were full of their belongings still. We two
casual bachelors with our circumspect habits could make no impression on the all but speaking
silence of those empty rooms. They filled me at times with a curious emotion of sadness and unrest.

Joshua seldom talked of the Flemings, though I knew he received letters from them. That he
was deeply attached to their memory, hoarded it and brooded over it, I could not doubt. I even
suspected some jealous sentiment on his part which made it hard for him to see me using their
chairs, planting myself amongst their cushions and investigating their book-shelves. I thought
it strange they had left so many things behind them of a personal nature. They seemed to have
ceased to care for what most of us rolling stones are wont to cling to. Their departure had
something unspeakable in it--akin to sudden death, or a sickness of the heart that made life
indifferent to them.

"They must have loved this room!" I said to him one evening. It was during the black rains
of February--Dean and I with our chairs to the fire, waiting for the Eastern mail. The night
watchman's orders were to stop for it if the trains were anywhere near on time. At this storm
season the Westbound was frequently behind and the road to town a quagmire. We never looked
for Fahey--he was the man I found there as night watchman--before eight o'clock. It had rained
and snowed off and on since the month began. In the dark, low rooms the fire burned all day.
The dining-room, which had blue-green walls in imitation of Flemish tapestry and weathered-oak
furniture, was darkened still more by the pines that gave a cloistered look to the view from
our back windows into a small, square court, high-walled and spread with pine-needles. The
rooms we used were two small ones united, done in white and yellow and with slim curtains which
we could crush back upon the rods; but even there one could not see to read by daylight. This
continuous, arctic gloom added, no doubt, to the melancholy spell of the house, which nevertheless
charmed me, and held me almost with a sense of impalpable presences sharing with Joshua and
me our intimate, wistful seclusion. If I was happy, in a luxuriously mournful sort of way,
I knew that he was not--that he grieved persistently over something that cast a greyness over
his thoughts in keeping with the atmosphere. I knew that he knew without any names whom I meant
whenever I spoke of they.

"Yes, they loved it," he said, answering my exclamation. "They made it, somehow, as character
is said to shape its own set of features."

"Had they lived here long?"

"For a mine house, yes. It was, of course, a home. They had no other."

"A happy one?" I ventured.

"Can any one be called happy who has the gift of strong feeling, and two children at stake,
in this world?" I had never heard him speak with such bitterness.

"But to have any one to feel for--that is life," I said. "I wish I had more of it myself."

"Life, then, is not happiness."

I left him the last word, and sitting so, both silent, we heard a screen-door at the kitchen-end
blow to with a bang and a clatter of tinware that sent the blood to my face in wrath. I said
something--about Jim and his fly-doors (Jim believed that flies or their ghosts besieged that
house all winter)--when the old heathen himself came boiling into the room like a whole United
States mail service delayed.

"Hoo! Heap bad ou'si'! Heap snow!" he panted, wiping drops from the lock of the mail-pouch
with his apron.

My wrath increased, because once more Fahey had got past the front door with the mail, whereas
each night I had promised myself to waylay him and change his roundabout method of delivery.
"If I live till tomorrow," I said crossly, "I'll see if he can't climb those steps and hand
us the bag himself."

Jim stood listening. "We might be at dinner," Joshua suggested.

"What's the matter with knocking?--what is the knocker for?" It struck me, as I spoke, that
I had not heard the sound of the knocker since the day Jim stayed my own hand and shunted me
in at the side; it seemed he must have practised the same vigilance with subsequent comers,
for I could not recall one person who had entered the house announced by the brass lion's head
on the door.

"He no lock!" Jim planted himself in front of me; his voice quavered nervously. "All time I
un-lock! Fi' 'tlock whistle blow--I go quick! Nobody wait. I all time run."

"Why should you run? What is the knocker for?" I repeated. At this I stepped past him startling
him somewhat, and hurled open the front door. I had heard our coy watchman going down the path.

"Tomorrow night, Fahey," I shouted, "you bring the bag in this way. Knock, man! There's the
knocker--see?"

Jim looked at me with eyes aghast. He gathered himself for speech, breathing deeply.

"Mis' Oth' (my name is Othet), I tell you: Long time-long time, no man knock flon' do'. In
this house, no good. No good knock. Sometime some-come-you no man see!" He lowered his voice
to a rapid whisper, spreading his yellow palms tremulously. "You tell man come knock flon'
do'--I go 'way. Too much bad thing!"

Muttering to himself he retreated. "Now what has he got on his mind do you suppose? Could you
make out what he was driving at?"

Dean smiled, a non-committal smile. "It would be rather awkward for us, wouldn't it, if Jim
should leave? We are too far from the coast for city servants in winter. I doubt if any of
the natives could be persuaded to stay in this house alone."

"You think Jim would leave if I made Fahey knock at that door every night?"

Joshua answered me obliquely. "If I could ever quote anything straight, I would remind you
of a saying in one of George Eliot's novels that 'we've all got to take a little trouble to
keep sane and call things by the same names as other people.' Perhaps Jim doesn't take quite
trouble enough. I have difficulty sometimes myself to find names for things. I should like
to hear you classify a certain occurrence I have in mind, not unconnected, I think, with Jim's
behavior tonight. I've never discussed it, of course. In fact, I've never spoken of it before."
He smiled queerly. "It's very astonishing how they know things."

"The menials?"

He nodded. "Jim was in the house at the time. No one knows that he heard it,--no one ever told
him. But he is thinking of it tonight just as I am. He's never forgotten it for a moment, and
never will."

Joshua dragged the charred logs forward and stooped amid their sparks to lay a fresh one with
its back to the chimney. Then he rose and looked out; as he stood in the door, I could hear
the hissing of fine snow turning to rain and the drenched bamboo whipping the piazza posts;
over all, the larger lament of the pines, and, from the long rows of lights in the gulch, the
diapason of the stamp-heads thundering on through the night.

"'Identities of sensation,'" said Joshua, quoting again as he shut the door, "are strong with
persons who live in lonely places! Jim and I have lived here too long."

"Well, I hope you won't live here another moment till you have told me that story," I urged,
and we drew again to the fire.

"There was a watchman here before Fahey," he began, "an old plainsman, with a Bible name, Gideon.
He looked like the pictures of old Ossawattamie Brown, and he had for the Flemings a most unusual
regard. It was as strong as his love for his family. It was because of what Fleming did for
his son, young Gid, when they caught him stealing specimens with a gang of old offenders. Gid
was nineteen, and a pretty good boy, we thought. Such things happen between men of the right
sort every day, I suppose,--Fleming would say so. But it was his opportunity to do it for a
man who could feel and remember, and he made a friend for life right there. It is too long
a story to tell, but young Gid's all right--working in the city, married and happy,--trusted
like any other man. It wasn't in the blood, you see.

"Before his boy got into trouble, Fleming used to call the old man 'Gideon,' talked to him
any old way; but after his pride fell down it was always 'Mr. Gideon,' and a few words when
he brought the mail, about the weather or the conduct of the trains. The old man appeared to
stand taller in those moments at the door, when he brought to the house the very food of its
existence. They lived upon their letters, for both the children were away. The army boy in
the Philippines; it was during the Mindanao campaign; and Constance (Joshua, I noticed, took
a deep breath before the name), the daughter, was at school in the East. Gideon could gauge
the spirits of the two, waiting here for what he brought them. He kept tally of the soldier's
letters, the thin blue ones that came strolling in by the transport lines. But hers--her letters
were his pride.

"'It's there all right,' he would say--'she never misses a Monday mail, the little one!' or,
as the winter months wore on--'you'll be counting the weeks now, madam. Six more letters and
then the telegram from Ogden, and I hope it's my privilege to bring it, madam.' For as Fleming
gave him his title, the old man passed it back with a glow of emphasis, putting devotion into
the 'madam' and life service into the 'Mr. Fleming, sir.'

"Then she came home--Constance--she was no longer the little one. Taller than her mother, and
rather silent, but her looks were a language, and her motions about the house--I suppose no
words could measure their pride in her, or their shrinking when they thought of her in contact
with the world. People laughed a little, looking at her, when her mother talked of the years
they were going to have together. And she would rebuke the laugh and say, 'We do not marry
early in my family, nor the Flemings either.' When the August heat came on, they thought she
was too pale--they spared her for a visit to some friends who had a houseboat off Belvedere,
or some such place. It was an ambush of fate. She came home, thin, brown, from living on the
water,--happy! too happy for safety. She brought her fate with her, the last man you'd suppose
could ever cross her path. He was from Hawaii, an Englishman--not all English, some of us thought.
Handsome as a snake; a face that kept no marks. Eyes all black--nothing of the pupil showing.
They say such eyes are not to be trusted. I never liked him. I'd better not try to describe him.

"It seemed madness to me, but I suppose they were no more helpless than other fathers and mothers.
He had plenty to say for himself, and introductions--all sorts of credentials, except a pair
of eyes. They had to let it go on; and he took her away from them six months after she saw
him first. That's happiness, if you call it so!"

Again I added, "It is life."

"There was not much left of it in this house after she went," Joshua mused. "It was then they
asked me to come up and stay with them. A silence of three does not press quite so close as
a silence of two. And we talked sometimes. The mine had taken a great jump; it was almost a
mockery the way things boomed. The letters, I noticed, were not what the schoolgirl letters
had been to her mother. They came all right, they were punctual, but something I felt sure
was wrong. Mrs. Fleming would not have missed a mail for anything in the world--every hour's
delay wore upon her. She would play her game of solitaire, long after bedtime, at that desk
by the drop-light. It seemed she could not read; nothing held her. She was irritable with Fleming,
and then she would pet him piteously to make up. He was always gentle. He would watch her over
his book as she walked up and down in the back room in the light between the dining-room curtains.
If he saw I noticed, he'd look away and begin to talk.

"I have gone a little ahead of my story, for this was after the dark weather came on and the
mails were behind; we knew there was some new strain on her spirits. You could see her face
grow small and her flesh waste away.

"One night we sat here, Fleming and I, and she was pacing in her soft, weary way in the back
of the room. There came a knock. It was Gideon's, yet none of us heard the gate click nor any
step outside. She stood back, for she never showed any impatience--she tried to pretend that
she expected nothing. Fleming opened the door; he stood there an instant looking out.

"'Didn't you hear a knock?' he asked me. Before I could answer he went outside, closing the
door, and we heard him go down the steps slowly.

"When he came in he merely said, 'A jar of wind.

"'A jar of wind!' Mrs. Fleming mocked him. The knock came again as she spoke. Once, twice,
then the light tap: I have described Gideon's knock. We did not pretend again it was the wind.

"'You go this time;' Fleming tried to laugh. 'See if there is anything doing.'

"There was nothing doing whatever, and nothing to be seen. I turned on the electrics outside,
and Fleming, seeing the light, came out to join me. I asked him if those were his tracks--a
man's footsteps could be seen printed in the fresh, light snow as far as the lowest step and
back. All beyond, where the light streamed down the path to the gate, was sky-fresh snow softly
laid without wind. 'Those are my tracks,' he said. 'There were no others before--sure,' he
repeated, 'and there is no one down at the gate. You need not go down there. Say nothing to
her,' he continued as we re-opened the door.

"She was expecting us. She was very pale but half smiling, braving it out. She fixed her eyes
on Fleming and then on me. 'Did you not both hear that knock?' As she spoke it came again.
I stood nearest the door; I hurled it open. Absolutely nothing. The lights, burning in a silly
way, made shadows on the steps. Not a mark, not even a leaf-track on the path we could see below.

"I went over to the telephone and called up the post-office. What happened at the house in
absence I do not know. I found the drawing-room empty; Fleming joined me coming from his wife's
room.

"'She is fearfully upset by that knocking,' he said. 'Can't we think up some explanation?'

"I feared he would have less courage for inventing explanations after what I had to tell him.

"I had followed the track of a horse and cart to the stable and found Gideon's old mare at
her hitching-post; the cart was empty, the muddy lap-robe dragging over the wheel. At the post-office
they told me Gideon had started for the mine an hour and a half ago. 'Hasn't he got out there
with that telegram yet?' they added. From the telegraph office, where they knew Gideon's hours,
they had sent a message across to the post-office to be carried out by him with the mail. The
voice on the telephone remarked, 'I guess they ought to get that wire pretty soon. It was marked
Important.'

"Fleming was cold and shaking as he listened. 'Drive back along the road through the woods,
Joshua'--he seldom called me by that name. 'I think something has happened to the old man.
His knock is on duty tonight, but where is he?'

"It came again, and following it a low cry from passage behind closed doors. 'She heard it
too,' said Fleming. And he went to his wife.

"I called up the landing-man to help me--Tommy Briscoe; I knew he wouldn't spread any talk
about. The search was not long. A lantern burning by itself in the woods showed us where he
had stopped the cart and half turned and tramped around in the snow. He'd dropped the bag out,
probably, missed it and looked for it on foot, setting his lantern down. He'd gone back quite
a bit along the road, and, coming back with it, the light in his eyes, he had made a misstep,
and the shaft--the old Granite Hill shaft, you know--it's close to the road. We found him in
the sump at the bottom. There had been too much rain, but it is a deep shaft anyway. He kept
his hold on the bag, and he kept his senses long enough to hook it onto a poor little stray
pine-root above the water, where he died. It was a cruel death, but his face was good to look at."

"And the telegram?" I asked.

"It was safe. He'd saved everything, except himself. They were driven over to Colfax that night,
with not a moment to spare----"

"But you haven't told me what it was."

"The message? Yes, it was from her, Constance--sent from an address in the city. It said--I
suppose I may repeat it. It is part of the night's work.

"'Come to me, mother,' it said. 'I am here. I need you.'"

"And they were in time?"

"To bid her good-by," said Joshua. "There was no hope for her but in death. Of course, they
never explained. She simply fled from--we don't know what. As long as she could she bore it
without complaint, and then she came home. She had them both with her and she knew them.

"I believe they were willing to give her up. It was the only solution left. They were very
fixed in their ideas about divorce, and what comes after. They believed in staking all or nothing
and abiding the result. The logic of her choice was death. They saw her free, without a stain,
without an obligation in this life even to her child, for it lay dead beside her. They did
grieve for that. They wanted it to live. It would have been something--yet, I believe, even
that was best.

"They lived on here for a while, if you call it living; but the silence in these rooms was
more than she could endure. And I need not tell you that the watchman, who was put on after
Gideon, had orders to leave that knocker alone."

"And you think," I asked, "that while Gideon lay dead at the bottom of the shaft, his knock
was 'marching on'?" I regretted instantly the turn of my last sentence. Joshua stiffened as
he replied:

"No; I cannot assert that he was dead, but I am convinced that what was left of him, of his
mortal--or immortal--consciousness, was not concerned with himself. What may happen to us at
that last boundary post is one of the mysteries no man can solve till he gets there."

"Joshua," I said, "the drift of your conclusion is a tribute to Gideon's faithfulness--well
deserved I have no doubt. But if you'll allow me to say so, it is not a tribute to the healthy
state of your mind. I regret to say it, but I fear that I agree with you: I think you have
lived in this house too long."

"If I had lived here too long for any other reason," he answered gently, "enough has been said.
It is better we should understand each other. But, as to my mind--I prefer to keep it unhealthy,
if by that you mean the tendency to project it a little further than reason, founded on such
laws of the universe as we know, can help us. Healthy minds are such as accept things--endeavor
to forget what gives immeasurable pain. I prefer the pain."

A YELLOW MAN AND A WHITE

BY

ELEANOR GATES

Reprinted from Scribner's Magazine of June, 1905 by permission

FONG WU sat on the porch of his little square-fronted house, chanting into the twilight. Across
his padded blouse of purple silk lay his sam-yen banjo. And as, from time to time, his hymn
to the Three Pure Ones was prolonged in high, fine quavers, like the uneven, squeaky notes
of a woman's voice, he ran his left hand up the slender neck of the instrument, rested a long
nail of his right on its taut, snake's-skin head, and lightly touched the strings; then, in
quick, thin tones, they followed the song to Sang-Ching.

The warm shadows of a California summer night were settling down over the wooded hills and
rocky gulches about Fong Wu's, and there was little but his music to break the silence. Long
since, the chickens had sleepily sought perches in the hen yard, with its high wall of rooty
stumps and shakes, and on the branches of the Digger pine that towered beside it. Up the dry
creek bed, a mile away, twinkled the lights of Whiskeytown; but no sounds from the homes of
the white people came down to the lonely Chinese. If his clear treble was interrupted, it was
by the cracking of a dry branch as a cottontail sped past on its way to a stagnant pool, or
it was by a dark-emboldened coyote, howling, dog-like, at the moon which, white as the snow
that eternally coifs the Sierras, was just rising above their distant, cobalt line.

One year before, Fong Wu, heavily laden with his effects, had slipped out of the stage from
Redding and found his way to a forsaken, ramshackle building below Whiskeytown. His coming
had proved of small interest. When the news finally got about that "a monkey" was living in
"Sam Kennedy's old place," it was thought, for a while, that laundering, thereafter, would
be cheaply done. This hope, however, was soon dispelled. For, shortly after his arrival, as
Fong Wu asked at the grocery store for mail, he met Radigan's inquiry of "You do my washee,
John?" with a grave shake of the head. Similar questions from others were met, later, in a
similar way. Soon it became generally known that the "monkey at Sam Kennedy's" did not do washing;
so he was troubled no further.

Yet if Fong Wu did not work for the people of Whiskeytown, he was not, therefore, idle. Many
a sunrise found him wandering through the chaparral thickets back of his house, digging here
and there in the red soil for roots and herbs. These he took home, washed, tasted, and, perhaps,
dried. His mornings were mainly spent in cooking for his abundantly supplied table, in tending
his fowls and house, and in making spotless and ironing smooth various undergarments--generous
of sleeve and leg.

But of an afternoon, all petty duties were laid aside, and he sorted carefully into place upon
his shelves numerous little bunches and boxes of dried herbs and numerous tiny phials of pungent
liquid that had come to him by post; he filled wide sheets of foolscap with vertical lines
of queer characters and consigned them to big, plainly addressed, well-stamped envelopes; he
scanned closely the last newspapers from San Francisco, and read from volumes in divers tongues,
and he poured over the treasured Taoist book, "The Road to Virtue."

Sunday was his one break in the week's routine. Then, the coolies who panned or cradled for
gold in tailings of near-by abandoned mines, gathered at Fong Wu's. On such occasions, there
was endless, lively chatter, a steady exchange of barbering--one man scraping another clean,
to be, in turn, made hairless in a broad band about the poll and on cheek and chin--and much
consuming of tasty chicken, dried fish, pork, rice, and melon seeds. To supplement all this,
Fong Wu recounted the news: the arrival of a consul in San Francisco, the raid on a slave--or
gambling-den, the progress of a tong war under the very noses of the baffled police, and the
growth of Coast feeling against the continued, quiet immigration of Chinese. But of the social
or political affairs of the Flowery Kingdom--of his own land beyond the sea--Fong Wu was consistently
silent.

Added to his Sunday responsibilities as host and purveyor of news, Fong Wu had others. An ailing
countryman, whether seized with malaria or suffering from an injury, found ready and efficient
attention. The bark of dogwood, properly cooked, gave a liquid that killed the ague; and oil
from a diminutive bottle, or a red powder whetted upon the skin with a silver piece, brought
out the soreness of a bruise.

Thus, keeping his house, herb-hunting, writing, studying, entertaining, doctoring, Fong Wu
lived on at Whiskeytown.

Each evening, daintily manipulating ivory chopsticks, he ate his supper of rice out of a dragon-bordered
bowl. Then, when he had poured tea from a pot all gold-encrusted--a cluster of blossoms nodding
in a vase at his shoulder the while--he went out upon the porch of the square-fronted house.

And there, as now, a scarlet-buttoned cap on his head, his black eyes soft with dreaming, his
richly wrought sandals tapping the floor in time, his long queue--a smooth, shining serpent--in
thick coils about his tawny neck, Fong Wu thrummed gently upon the three-stringed banjo, and,
in peace, chanted into the twilight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Flying hoofs scattered the gravel on the strip of road before Fong Wu's. He looked through
the gloom and saw a horse flash past, carrying a skirted rider toward Whiskeytown. His song
died out. He let his banjo slip down until its round head rested between his feet. Then he
turned his face up the gulch.

Despite the dusk, he knew the traveler: Mrs. Anthony Barrett, who, with her husband, had recently
come to live in a house near Stillwater. Every evening, when the heat was over, she went by,
bound for the day's mail at the post-office. Every evening, in the cool, Fong Wu saw her go,
and sometimes she gave him a friendly nod.

Her mount was a spirited, mouse-dun mustang, with crop-ears, a roached mane, and the back markings
of a mule. She always rode at a run, sitting with easy erectness. A wide army hat rested snugly
on her fair hair, and shaded a white forehead and level-looking eyes. But notwithstanding the
sheltering brim, on her girlish face were set the glowing, scarlet seals of wind and sun.

As he peered townward after her, Fong Wu heard the hurrying hoof-beats grow gradually fainter
and fainter--and cease. Presently the moon topped the pines on the foot-hills behind him, bathing
the gulch in light. The road down which she would come sprang into view. He watched its farthest
open point. In a few moments the hoof-beats began again. Soon the glint of a light waist showed
through the trees. Next, horse and rider rounded a curve at hand. Fong Wu leaned far forward.

And then, just as the mustang gained the strip of road before the square-fronted house, it
gave a sudden, unlooked-for, outward leap, reared with a wild snort, and, whirling, dashed
past the porch--riderless.

With an exclamation, Fong Wu flung his banjo aside and ran to the road. There under a manzanita
bush, huddled and still, lay a figure. He caught it up, bore it to the porch, and put it gently
down.

A brief examination, made with the deftness practise gives, showed him that no bones were broken.
Squatting beside the unconscious woman, he next played slowly with his long-nailed fingers
upon her pulse. Its beat reassured him. He lighted a lamp and held it above her. The scarlet
of her cheeks was returning.

The sight of her, who was so strong and active, stretched weak and fainting, compelled Fong
Wu into spoken comment. "The petal of a plum blossom," he said compassionately, in his own tongue.

She stirred a little. He moved back. As, reviving, she opened her eyes, they fell upon him.
But he was half turned away, his face as blank and lifeless as a mask.

She gave a startled cry and sat up. "Me hurtee?" she asked him, adopting pidgin-English "Me
fallee off?"

Fong Wu rose. "You were thrown," he answered gravely.

She colored in confusion. "Pardon me," she said, "for speaking to you as if you were a coolie."
Then, as she got feebly to her feet--"I believe my right arm is broken."

"I have some knowledge of healing," he declared; "let me look at it." Before she could answer,
he had ripped the sleeve away. "It is only a sprain," he said. "Wait." He went inside for an
amber liquid and bandages. When he had laved the injured muscles, he bound them round.

"How did it happen?" she asked, as he worked. He was so courteous and professional that her
alarm was gone.

"Your horse was frightened by a rattler in the road. I heard it whir."

She shuddered. "I ought to be thankful that I didn't come my cropper on it," she said, laughing
nervously.

He went inside again, this time to prepare a cupful of herbs. When he offered her the draught,
she screwed up her face over its nauseating fumes.

"If that acts as strongly as it tastes," she said, after she had drunk it, "I'll be well soon."

"It is to keep away inflammation."

"Oh! Can I go now?"

"Yes. But tomorrow return, and I will look at the arm." He took the lamp away and replaced
his red-buttoned cap with a black felt hat. Then he silently preceded her down the steps to
the road. Only when the light of her home shone plainly ahead of them, did he leave her.

They had not spoken on the way. But as he bowed a good night, she addressed him. "I thank you,"
she said. "And may I ask your name?"

"Kwa"--he began, and stopped. Emotion for an instant softened his impassive countenance. He
turned away. "Fong Wu," he added, and was gone.

The following afternoon the crunch of cart wheels before the square-fronted house announced
her coming. Fong Wu closed "The Book of Virtue," and stepped out upon the porch.

A white man was seated beside her in the vehicle. As she sprang from it, light-footed and smiling,
and mounted the steps, she indicated him politely to the Chinese.

"This is my husband," she said. "I have told him how kind you were to me last night."

Fong Wu nodded.

Barrett hastened to voice his gratitude. "I certainly am very much obliged to you," he said.
"My wife might have been bitten by the rattler, or she might have lain all night in pain if
you hadn't found her. And I want to say that your treatment was splendid. Why, her arm hasn't
swollen or hurt her. I'll be hanged if I can see--you're such a good doctor--why you stay in
this----"

Fong Wu interrupted him. "I will wet the bandage with medicine," he said, and entered the house.

They watched him with some curiosity as he treated the sprain and studied the pulse. When he
brought out her second cup of steaming herbs, Mrs. Barrett looked up at him brightly.

"You know we're up here for Mr. Barrett's health," she said. "A year or so after we were married,
he was hurt in a railway collision. Since then, though his wounds healed nicely, he has never
been quite well. Dr. Lord, our family physician, prescribed plenty of rough work, and a quiet
place, far from the excitement of a town or city. Now, all this morning, when I realized how
wonderful it was that my arm wasn't aching, I've been urging my husband--what do you suppose?--to
come and be examined by you!"

Fong Wu, for the first time, looked fully at the white man, marking the sallow, clayey face,
with its dry, lined skin, its lusterless eyes and drooping lids.

Barrett scowled at his wife. "Nonsense, dear," he said crossly; "you know very well that Lord
would never forgive me."

"But Fong Wu might help you," she declared.

Fong Wu's black eyes were still fixed searchingly upon the white man. Before their scrutiny,
soul-deep, the other's faltered and fell.

"You might help him, mightn't you, Fong Wu?" Mrs. Barrett repeated.

An expression, curious, keen, and full of meaning, was the answer. Then, "I might if he----"
Fong Wu said, and paused.

Past Mrs. Barrett, whose back was toward her husband, the latter had shot a warning glance.
"Come, come, Edith," he cried irritably; "let's get home."

Mrs. Barrett emptied her cup bravely. "When shall we call again?" she asked.

"You need not come again," Fong Wu replied. "Each day you have only to dampen the bandages
from these." He handed her a green-flowered box containing twelve tiny compartments; in each
was a phial.

"And I sha'n't have to take any more of this--this awful stuff?" she demanded gaily, giving
back the cup.

"No."

"Ah! And now, I want to thank you again, with all my heart. Here,"--she reached into the pocket
of her walking-skirt,--"here is something for your trouble." Two double-eagles lay on her open
palm.

Fong Wu frowned at them. "I take no money," he said, a trifle gruffly. And as she got into
the cart, he closed the door of his home behind him.

It was a week before Mrs. Barrett again took up her rides for the mail. When she did, Fong
Wu did not fail to be on his porch as she passed. For each evening, as she cantered up the
road, spurring the mustang to its best paces, she reined to speak to him. And he met her greetings
with unaccustomed good humor.

Then she went by one morning before sunrise, riding like the wind. A little later she repassed,
whipping her horse at every gallop. Fong Wu, called to his door by the clatter, saw that her
face was white and drawn. At noon, going up to the post-office, he heard a bit of gossip that
seemed to bear upon her unwonted trip. Radigan was rehearsing it excitedly to his wife, and
the Chinese busied himself with his mail and listened--apparently unconcerned.

"I c'n tell you she ain't afraid of anythin', that Mrs. Barrett," the post-master was saying;
"neither th' cayuse she rides or a critter on two legs. An' that fancy little drug-clerk from
'Frisco got it straight from th' shoulder."

"S-s-sh!" admonished his wife, from the back of the office. "Isn't there some one outside?"

"Naw, just th' chink from Kennedy's. Well, as I remarked, she did jus' light into that dude.
'It was criminal!' she says, an' her eyes snapped like a whip; 'it was criminal! an' if I find
out for sure that you are guilty, I'll put you where you'll never do it again.' Th' young gent
smirked at her an' squirmed like a worm. 'You're wrong, Mrs. Barrett,' he says, lookin' like
th' meek puppy he is, 'an' you'll have t' look some place else for th' person that done it.'
But she wouldn't talk no longer--jus' walked out, as mad as a hornet."

"Well, well," mused Mrs. Radigan. "I wonder what 'twas all about. 'Criminal,' she said, eh?
That's funny!" She walked to the front of the office and peeked through the wicket. But no
one was loitering near except Fong Wu, and his face was the picture of dull indifference.

That night, long after the hour for Mrs. Barrett's regular trip, and long past the time for
his supper-song, Fong Wu heard slow, shuffling steps approach the house. A moment afterward,
the knob of his door was rattled. He put out his light and slipped a knife into his loose sleeve.

After some fumbling and moving about on the porch, a man called out to him. He recognized the
voice.

"Fong Wu! Fong Wu!" it begged. "Let me in. I want to see you; I want to ask you for help--for
something I need. Let me in; let me in."

Fong Wu, without answering, relit his lamp, and, with the air of one who is at the same time
both relieved and a witness of the expected, flung the door wide.

Then into the room, writhing as if in fearful agony, his hands palsied, his face a-drip and,
except for dark blotches about the mouth, green-hued, his eyes wild and sunken, fell, rather
than tottered, Anthony Barrett.

"Fong Wu," he pleaded, from the floor at the other's feet, "you helped my wife when she was
sick, now help me. I'm dying! I'm dying! Give it to me, for God's sake! give it to me." He
caught at the skirt of Fong Wu's blouse.

The Chinese retreated a little, scowling. "What do you want?" he asked.

A paroxysm of pain seized Barrett. He half rose and stumbled forward. "You know," he panted,
"you know. And if I don't have some, I'll die. I can't get it anywhere else. She's found me
out, and scared the drug-clerk. Oh, just a little, old man, just a little!" He sank to the
floor again.

"I can give you nothing," said Fong Wu bluntly. "I do not keep--what you want."

With a curse, Barrett was up again. "Oh, you don't," he screamed, leering frenziedly. "You
yellow devil! You almond-eyed pigtail! But I know you do! And I must have it. Quick! quick!"
He hung, clutching, on the edge of Fong Wu's wide ironing-table, an ashen wreck.

Fong Wu shook his head.

With a cry, Barrett came at him and seized his lean throat. "You damned highbinder!" he gasped.
"You saddle-nosed monkey! You'll get me what I want or I'll give you away. Don't I know why
you're up here in these woods, with your pretty clothes and your English talk? A-ha! You bet
I do! You're hiding, and you're wanted,"--he dropped his voice to a whisper,--"the tongs would
pay head-money for you. If you don't give it to me, I'll put every fiend in 'Frisco on your trail."

Fong Wu had caught Barrett's wrists. Now he cast him to one side. "Tongs!" he said with a shrug,
as if they were beneath his notice. And "Fiends!" he repeated contemptuously, a taunt in his voice.

The white man had fallen prone and was grovelling weakly. "Oh, I won't tell on you," he wailed
imploringly. "I won't, I won't, Fong Wu; I swear it on my honor."

Fong Wu grunted and reached to a handy shelf. "I will make a bargain with you," he said craftily;
"first, you are to drink what I wish."

"Anything! anything!" Barrett cried.

From a box of dry herbs, long untouched, the Chinese drew out a handful. There was no time
for brewing. Outraged nature demanded instant relief. He dropped them into a bowl, covered
them with water, and stirred swiftly. When the stems and leaves were broken up and well mixed,
he strained brown liquid from them and put it to the other's lips.

"Drink," he commanded, steadying the shaking head.

Barrett drank, unquestioningly.

Instantly the potion worked. Calmed as if by a miracle, made drowsy to a point where speech
was impossible, the white man, tortured but a moment before, tipped sleepily into Fong Wu's
arms. The Chinese waited until a full effect was secured, when he lifted his limp patient to
the blanket-covered ironing-table. Then he went out for fuel, built a fire, and, humming softly--with
no fear of waking the other--sat down to watch the steeping of more herbs.

       *       *       *       *       *

What happened next at the square-fronted house was the unexpected. Again there was a sound
of approaching footsteps, again some one gained the porch. But this time there was no pausing
to ask for admission, there were no weak requests for aid. A swift hand felt for the knob and
found it; a strong arm pushed at the unlocked door. And through it, bare-headed, with burning
eyes and blanched cheeks, her heavy riding-whip dangling by a thong from her wrist, came the
wife of Anthony Barrett.

Just across the sill she halted and swept the dim room. A moment, and the burning eyes fell
upon the freighted ironing-table. She gave a piercing cry.

Fong Wu neither spoke nor moved.

After the first outburst, she was quiet--the quiet that is deliberative, threatening. Then
she slowly closed her fingers about the whip butt. Fixing her gaze in passionate anger upon
him, she advanced a few steps.

"So it was you," she said, and her voice was hollow.

To that he made no sign, and even his colorless face told nothing.

She came forward a little farther, and sucked in a long, deep breath. "You dog of a Chinaman!"
she said at last, and struck her riding-skirt.

Fong Wu answered silently. With an imperative gesture, he pointed out the figure on the ironing-table.

She sprang to her husband's side and bent over him. Presently she began to murmur to herself.
When, finally, she turned, there were tears on her lashes, she was trembling visibly, and she
spoke in whispers.

"Was I wrong?" she demanded brokenly. "I must have been. He's not had it; I can tell by his
quick, easy breathing. And his ear has a faint color. You are trying to help him! I know! I know!"

A gleaming white line showed between the yellow of Fong Wu's lips. He picked up a rude stool
and set it by the table. She sank weakly upon it, letting the whip fall.

"Thank God! thank God!" she sobbed prayerfully, and buried her face in her arms.

Throughout the long hours that followed, Fong Wu, from the room's shadowy rear, sat watching.
He knew sleep did not come to her. For now and then he saw her shake from head to heel convulsively,
as he had seen men in his own country quiver beneath the scourge of bamboos. Now and then,
too, he heard her give a stifled moan, like the protest of a dumb creature. But in no other
ways did she bare her suffering. Quietly, lest she wake her husband, she fought out the night.

Only once did Fong Wu look away from her. Then, in anger and disgust his eyes shifted to the
figure on the table. "The petal of a plum blossom"--he muttered in Chinese--"the petal of a
plum blossom beneath the hoofs of a pig!" And again his eyes dwelt upon the grief-bowed wife.

But when the dawn came stealing up from behind the purple Sierras, and Mrs. Barrett raised
her wan face, he was studiously reviewing his rows of bottles, outwardly unaware of her presence.

"Fong Wu," she said, in a low voice, "when will he wake?"

"When he is rested; at sunrise, maybe, or at noon."

"And then?"

"He will be feeble. I shall give him more medicine, and he will sleep again."

He rose and busied himself at the fire. Soon he approached her, bringing the gold-encrusted
teapot and a small, handleless cup.

She drank thirstily, filling and emptying the cup many times. When she was done, she made as
if to go. "I shall see that everything is all right at home," she told him. "After that, I
shall come back." She stooped and kissed her husband tenderly.

Fong Wu opened the door for her, and she passed out. In the road, unhitched, but waiting, stood
the mustang. She mounted and rode away.

When she returned, not long afterward, she was a new woman. She had bathed her face and donned
a fresh waist. Her eyes were alight, and the scarlet was again flaming in her cheeks. Almost
cheerfully, and altogether hopefully, she resumed her post at the ironing-table.

It was late in the afternoon before Barrett woke. But he made no attempt to get up, and would
not eat. Fong Wu administered another dose of herbs, and without heeding his patient's expostulations.
The latter, after seeking his wife's hand, once more sank into sleep.

Just before sunset, Fong Wu, who scorned to rest, prepared supper. Gratefully Mrs. Barrett
partook of some tender chicken and rice cakes. When darkness shut down, they took up their
second long vigil.

But it was not the vigil of the previous night. She was able to think of other things than
her husband's condition and the doom that, of a sudden, had menaced her happiness. Her spirits
having risen, she was correspondingly impatient of a protracted, oppressive stillness, and
looked about for an interruption, and for diversion. Across from her, a celestial patrician
in his blouse of purple silk and his red-buttoned cap, sat Fong Wu. Consumed with curiosity--now
that she had time to observe him closely--she longed to lift the yellow, expressionless mask
from his face--a face which might have patterned that of an oriental sphinx. At midnight, when
he approached the table to satisfy himself of Barrett's progress, and to assure her of it,
she essayed a conversation.

Glancing up at his laden shelves, she said, "I have been noticing your medicines, and how many
kinds there seem to be."

"For each ailment that is visited upon man, earth offers a cure," he answered. "Life would
be a mock could Death, unchallenged, take it."

"True. Have you found in the earth, then, the cure for each ailment of man?"

"For most, yes. They seek yet, where I learned the art of healing, an antidote for the cobra's
bite. I know of no other they lack."

"Where you were taught they must know more than we of this country know."

Fong Wu gave his shoulders a characteristic shrug.

"But," she continued, "you speak English so perfectly. Perhaps you were taught that in this
country."

"No--in England. But the other, I was not."

"In England! Well!"

"I went there as a young man."

"But these herbs, these medicines you have--they did not come from England, did they?"

He smiled. "Some came from the hills at our back." Then, crossing to his shelves and reaching
up, "This"--he touched a silk-covered package--"is from Sumbawa in the Indian Sea; and this"--his
finger was upon the cork of a phial--"is from Feng-shan, Formosa; and other roots are taken
in winter from the lake of Ting-ting-hu, which is then dry; and still others come from the
far mountains of Chamur."

"Do you know," Mrs. Barrett said tentatively, "I have always heard that Chinese doctors give
horrid things for medicine--sharks' teeth, frogs' feet, lizards' tails, and--and all sorts
of dreadful things."

Fong Wu proffered no enlightenment.

"I am glad," she went on, "that I have learned better."

After a while she began again: "Doubtless there is other wonderful knowledge, besides that
about doctoring, which Chinese gentlemen possess."

Fong Wu gave her a swift glance. "The followers of Laou-Tsze know many things," he replied,
and moved into the shadows as if to close their talk.

Toward morning, when he again gave her some tea, she spoke of something that she had been turning
over in her mind for hours.

"You would not take money for helping me when I was hurt," she said, "and I presume you will
refuse to take it for what you are doing now. But I should like you to know that Mr. Barrett
and I will always, always be your friends. If"--she looked across at him, no more a part of
his rude surroundings than was she--"if ever there comes a time when we could be of use to
you, you have only to tell us. Please remember that."

"I will remember."

"I cannot help but feel," she went on, and with a sincere desire to prove her gratitude, rather
than to pry out any secret of his, "that you do not belong here--that you are in more trouble
than I am. For what can a man of your rank have to do in a little town like this!"

He was not displeased with her. "The ancient sage," he said slowly, "mounted himself upon a
black ox and disappeared into the western wilderness of Thibet. Doubtless others, too, seek
seclusion for much thinking."

"But you are not the hermit kind," she declared boldly. "You belong to those who stay and fight.
Yet here you are, separated from your people and your people's graves--alone and sorrowful."

"As for my living people, they are best without me; as for my people dead, I neither worship
their dust nor propitiate devils. The wise one said, 'Why talk forever on of men who are long
gone?'"

"Yet----" she persisted.

He left the stove and came near her. "You are a woman, but you know much. You are right. My
heart is heavy for a thing I cannot do--for the shattered dreams of the men of Hukwang." He
beat his palms together noiselessly, and moved to and fro on soft sandals. "Those dreams were
of a young China that was to take the place of the old--but that died unborn."

She followed his words with growing interest. "I have heard of those dreams," she answered;
"they were called 'reform.'"

"Yes. And now all the dreamers are gone. They had voyaged to glean at Harvard, Yale, Cornell,
and in the halls of Oxford. There were 'five loyal and six learned,' and they shed their blood
at the Chen Chih Gate. One there was who died the death that is meted a slave at the court
of the Son of Heaven. And one there was"--his face shrank up, as if swiftly aging; his eyes
became dark, upturning slits; as one who fears pursuit, he cast a look behind him--"and one
there was who escaped beyond the blood-bathed walls of the Hidden City and gained the Sumatra
Coast. Then, leaving Perak, in the Straits Settlements, he finally set foot upon a shore where
men, without terror, may reach toward higher things."

"And was he followed?" she whispered, comprehending.

"He fled quietly. For long are the claws of the she-panther crouched on the throne of the Mings."

Both fell silent. The Chinese went back to the stove, where the fire was dying. The white woman,
wide awake, and lost in the myriad of scenes his tale had conjured, sat by the table, for once
almost forgetful of her charge.

The dragging hours of darkness past, Anthony Barrett found sane consciousness. He was pale,
yet strengthened by his long sleep, and he was hungry. Relieved and overjoyed, Mrs. Barrett
ministered to him. When he had eaten and drunk, she helped him from the table to the stool,
and thence to his feet. Her arm about him, she led him to the door. Fong Wu had felt his pulse
and it had ticked back the desired message, so he was going home.

"Each night you are to come," Fong Wu said, as he bade them good-by. "And soon, very soon,
you may go from here to the place from which you came."

Mrs. Barrett turned at the door. A plea for pardon in misjudging him, thankfulness for his
help, sympathy for his exile--all these shone from her eyes. But words failed her. She held
out her hand.

He seemed not to see it; he kept his arms at his sides. A "dog of a Chinaman" had best not
take a woman's hand.

She went out, guiding her husband's footsteps, and helped him climb upon the mustang from the
height of the narrow porch. Then, taking the horse by the bridle, she moved away down the slope
to the road.

Fong Wu did not follow, but closed the door gently and went back to the ironing-table. A handkerchief
lay beside it--a dainty linen square that she had left. He picked it up and held it before
him by two corners. From it there wafted a faint, sweet breath.

Fong Wu let it flutter to the floor. "The perfume of a plum petal," he said softly, in English;
"the perfume of a plum petal."

THE JUDGMENT OF MAN

BY

JAMES HOPPER

Copyright, 1906, by McClure, Phillips and Company

Reprinted from Caybigan by permission

WE WERE sitting around the big center table in the sala of the "House of Guests" in Ilo-Ilo.
We were teachers from Occidental Negros. It was near Christmas; we had left our stations for
the holidays--the cholera had just swept them and the aftermath was not pleasant to contemplate--and
so we were leaning over the polished narra table, sipping a sweet, false Spanish wine from
which we drew, not a convivial spirit, but rather a quiet, reflective gloom. All the shell
shutters were drawn back; we could see the tin-roofed city gleam and crackle with the heat,
and beyond the lithe line of cocoanuts, the iridescent sea, tugging the heart with offer of
coolness. But, all of us, we knew the promise to be Fake, monumental Fake, knew the alluring
depths to be hot as corruption, and full of sharks.

Somebody in a monotonous voice was cataloguing the dead, enumerating those of us who had been
conquered by the climate, by the work, or through their own inward flaws. He mentioned Miller
with some sort of disparaging gesture, and then Carter of Balangilang, who had been very silent,
suddenly burst into speech with singular fury.

"Who are you, to judge him?" he shouted. "Who are you, eh? Who are we, anyway, to judge him?"

Headlong outbursts from Carter were nothing new to us, so we took no offense. Finally some
one said, "Well, he's dead," with that tone that signifies final judgment, the last, best,
most charitable thing which can be said of the man being weighed.

But Carter did not stop there. "You didn't know him, did you?" he asked. "You didn't know him;
tell me now, did you know him?" He was still extraordinarily angry.

We did not answer. Really, we knew little of the dead man--excepting that he was mean and small,
and not worth knowing. He was mean, and he was a coward; and to us in our uncompromising youth
these were just the unpardonable sins. Because of that we had left him alone; yes, come to
think of it, very much alone. And we knew little about him.

"Here, I'll tell you what I know," Carter began again, in a more conciliatory tone; "I'll tell
you everything I know of him." He lit a cheroot.

"I first met him right here in Ilo-Ilo. I had crossed over for supplies; he was fresh from
Manila and wanted to get over to Bacolod to report to the Sup. and be assigned to his station.
When I saw him he was on the muelle, surrounded by an army of bluffing cargadores. About twelve
of them had managed to get a finger upon his lone carpet-bag while it was being carried down
the gang-plank, and each and all of them wanted to get paid for the job. He was in a horrible
pickle; couldn't speak a word of Spanish or Visayan. And the first thing he said when I had
extricated him, thanks to my vituperative knowledge of these sweet tongues, was: 'If them niggahs,
seh, think Ah'm a-goin' to learn their cussed lingo, they're mahtily mistaken, seh!'

"After that remark, coming straight from the heart, I hardly needed to be told that he was
from the South. He was from Mississippi. He was gaunt, yellow, malarial, and slovenly. He had
'teached' for twenty years, he said, but in spite of this there was about him something indescribably
rural, something of the sod--not the dignity, the sturdiness of it, but rather of the pettiness,
the sordidness of it. It showed in his dirty, flapping garments, his unlaced shoes, his stubble
beard, in his indecent carelessness in expectorating the tobacco he was ceaselessly chewing.
But these, after all, were some of his minor traits. I was soon to get an inkling of one of
his major ones--his prodigious meanness. For when I rushed about and finally found a lorcha
that was to sail for Bacolod and asked him to chip in with me on provisions, he demurred.

"'Ah'd like to git my own, seh,' he said in that decisive drawl of his.

"'All right,' I said cheerfully, and went off and stocked up for two. My instinct served me
well. When, that evening, Miller walked up the gang-plank, he carried only his carpet-bag,
and that was flat and hungry-looking as before. The next morning he shared my provisions calmly
and resolutely, with an air, almost, of conscious duty. Well, let that go; before another day
I was face to face with his other flaming characteristic.

"Out of Ilo-Ilo we had contrary winds at first; all night the lorcha--an old grandmother of
a craft, full of dry-rot spots as big as woodpeckers' nests--flapped heavily about on impotent
tacks, and when the sun rose we found ourselves on the same spot from which we had watched
its setting. Toward ten o'clock, however, the monsoon veered, and, wing-and-wing, the old boat,
creaking in every joint as if she had the dengue, grunted her way over flashing combers with
a speed that seemed almost indecent. Then, just as we were getting near enough to catch the
heated glitter of the Bacolod church-dome, to see the golden thread of beach at the foot of
the waving cocoanuts, the wind fell, slap-bang, as suddenly as if God had said hush--and we
stuck there, motionless, upon a petrified sea.

"I didn't stamp about and foam at the mouth; I'd been in these climes too long. As for Miller,
he was from Mississippi. We picked out a comparatively clean spot on the deck, near the bow;
we lay down on our backs and relaxed our beings into infinite patience. We had been thus for
perhaps an hour; I was looking up at a little white cloud that seemed receding, receding into
the blue immensity behind it. Suddenly a noise like thunder roared in my ears. The little cloud
gave a great leap back into its place; the roar dwindled into the voice of Miller, in plaintive,
disturbed drawl. 'What the deuce are the niggahs doing?' he was saying.

"And certainly the behavior of that Visayan crew was worthy of question. Huddled quietly at
the stern, one after another they were springing over the rail into the small boat that was
dragging behind, and even as I looked the last man disappeared with the painter in his hand.
At the same moment I became aware of a strange noise. Down in the bowels of the lorcha a weird,
gentle commotion was going on, a multitudinous 'gluck-gluck' as of many bottles being emptied.
A breath of hot, musty air was sighing out of the hatch. Then the sea about the poop began
to rise,--to rise slowly, calmly, steadily, like milk in a heated pot.

"'By the powers,' I shouted, 'the old tub is going down!'

"It was true. There, upon the sunlit sea, beneath the serene sky, silently, weirdly, unprovoked,
the old boat, as if weary, was sinking in one long sigh of lassitude. And we, of course, were
going with it. A few yards away from the stern-post was the jolly-boat with the crew. I looked
at them, and in my heart I could not condemn them for their sly departure; they were all there,
arraiz, wife, children, and crew, so heaped together that they seemed only a meaningless tangle
of arms and legs and heads; the water was half an inch from the gunwale, and the one man at
the oars, hampered, paralyzed on all sides, was splashing helplessly while the craft pivoted
like a top. There was no anger in my heart, yet I was not absolutely reconciled to the situation.
I searched the deck with my eyes, then from the jolly-boat the arraiz obligingly yelled, 'El
biroto, el biroto!'

"And I remembered the rotten little canoe lashed amidships. It didn't take us long to get it
into the water (the water by that time was very close at hand). I went carefully into it first
so as to steady it for Miller, and then, both of us at once, we saw that it would hold only
one. The bottom, a hollowed log, was stanch enough, but the sides, made of pitched bamboo lattice,
were sagging and torn. It would hold only one.

"'Well, who is it?' I asked. In my heart there was no craven panic, but neither was there sacrifice.
Some vague idea was in my mind, of deciding who should get the place by some game of chance,
tossing up a coin, for instance.

"But Miller said, 'Ah cain't affawd to take chances, seh; you must git out.'

"He spoke calmly, with great seriousness, but without undue emphasis--as one enunciating an
uncontrovertible natural law. I glanced up into his face, and it was in harmony with his voice.
He didn't seem particularly scared; he was serious, that's all; his eyes were set in that peculiar,
wide-pupiled stare of the man contemplating his own fixed idea.

"'No, seh; Ah cain't affawd it,' he repeated.

"The absurdity of the thing suddenly tingled in me like wine. 'All right!' I shouted, in a
contagion of insanity; 'all right, take the darned thing!'

"And I got out. I got out and let him step stiffly into the boat, which I obligingly sent spinning
from the lorcha with one long, strong kick. Then I was alone on the deck, which suddenly looked
immense, stretched on all sides, limitless as loneliness itself. A heavy torpor fell from the
skies and amid this general silence, this immobility, the cabin door alone seemed to live,
live in weird manifestation. It had been left open, and now it was swinging and slamming to
and fro jerkily, and shuddering from top to bottom. Half in plan, half in mere irritation at
this senseless, incessant jigging, I sprang toward it and with one nervous pull tore it, hinge
and all, from the rotten woodwork. I heaved it over the side, went in head first after it,
took a few strokes and lay, belly down, upon it. Just then the lorcha began to rise by the
head; the bowsprit went up slowly like a finger pointing solemnly to heaven; then, without
a sound, almost instantaneously, the whole fabric disappeared. Across the now unoccupied space
Miller and I rushed smoothly toward each other, as if drawn by some gigantic magnet; our crafts
bumped gently, like two savages caressingly rubbing noses; they swung apart a little and lay
side by side, undulating slightly.

"And we remained there, little black specks upon the flashing sea. Two hundred yards away was
the lorcha's boat; they had reshuffled themselves more advantageously and were pulling slowly
toward land. Not twenty feet from me Miller sat upright in his canoe as if petrified. I was
not so badly off. The door floated me half out of water, and that was lukewarm, so I knew that
I could stand it a long time. What bothered me, though, was that the blamed raft was not long
enough; that is, the upper part of my body being heavier, it took more door to support it,
so that my feet were projecting beyond the lower edge, and every second or so the nibbling
of some imaginary shark sent them flying up into the air in undignified gymnastics. The consoling
part of it was that Miller was paying no notice. He still sat up, rigid, in his canoe, clutching
the sides stiffly and looking neither to right nor left. From where I lay I could see the cords
of his neck drawn taut, and his knuckles showing white.

"'Why the deuce don't you paddle to shore?' I shouted at length, taking a sudden disgust of
the situation.

"He did not turn his head as he answered, 'Ah--Ah,' he stammered, the words coming hard as
hiccoughs out of his throat, 'Ah don't know haow.'

"'Drop the sides of your boat and try,' I suggested.

"He seemed to ponder carefully over this for a while. 'Ah think it's safer to stay this-a-way,'
he decided finally.

"'But, good Lord, man,' I cried, angry at this calm stupidity, 'if that's what you're going
to do, you'd better get on this door here and let me take the boat. I'll paddle ashore and
come back for you.'

"He turned his head slowly. He contemplated my raft long, carefully, critically.

"'Ah think Ah'll be safer heyah, seh,' he decided. 'It's a little bit o' old door, and Ah reckon
they's a heap of sharks around.'

"After that I had little to say. Given the premises of the man, his conclusions were unquestionable.
And the premises were a selfishness so tranquil, so ingenuous, so fresh, I might say, that
I couldn't work up the proper indignation. It was something so perfect as to challenge admiration.
On the whole, however, it afforded a poor subject for conversation; so we remained there, taciturn,
I on my door, half-submerged in the tepid water, my heels flung up over my back, he in his
dugout, rigid, his hands clutching the sides as if he were trying to hold up the craft out
of the liquid abyss beneath.

"And thus we were still when, just as the sun was setting somberly, a velos full of chattering
natives picked us up. They landed us at Bacolod, and Miller left me to report to the Sup. I
departed before sun-up the next morning for my station. I didn't want to see Miller again.

"But I did. One night he came floundering through my pueblo. It was in the middle of the rainy
season. He wasn't exactly caked with mud; rather, he seemed to ooze it out of every pore. He
had been assigned to Binalbagan, ten miles further down. I stared when he told me this. Binalbagan
was the worst post on the island, a musty, pestilential hole with a sullenly hostile population,
and he--well, inefficiency was branded all over him in six-foot letters. I tried to stop him
overnight, but he would not do it, and I saw him splash off in the darkness, gaunt, yellow,
mournful.

"I saw little of him after that. I was busy establishing new barrio-schools, which were to
give me excuses for long horseback rides of inspection. I felt his presence down there in that
vague way by which you are aware of a person behind your back without turning around. Rumors
of his doings reached me. He was having a horrible time. On the night of his arrival he had
been invited to dinner by the Presidente, a kind old primitive soul, but when he found that
he was expected to sit at the table with the family, he had stamped off, indignant, saying
that he didn't eat with no niggers. As I've said before, the town was hostile, and this attitude
did not help matters much. He couldn't get the school moneys out of the Tesorero--an unmitigated
rascal--but that did not make much difference, for he had no pupils anyhow. He couldn't speak
a word of Spanish; no one in the town, of course, knew any English--he must have been horribly
lonely. He began to wear camisas, like the natives. That's always a bad sign. It shows that
the man has discovered that there is no one to care how he dresses--that is, that there is
no longer any public opinion. It indicates something subtly worse--that the man has ceased
looking at himself, that the I has ceased criticising, judging, stiffening up the me,--in other
words, that there is no longer any conscience. That white suit, I tell you, is a wonderful
moral force; the white suit, put on fresh every morning, heavily starched, buttoned up to the
chin, is like an armor, ironcladding you against the germ of decay buzzing about you, ceaselessly
vigilant for the little vulnerable spot. Miller wore camisas, and then he began to go without
shoes. I saw that myself. I was riding through his pueblo on my way to Dent's, and I passed
his school. I looked into the open door as my head bobbed by at the height of the stilt-raised
floor. He was in his camisa and barefooted; his long neck stretched out of the collarless garment
with a mournful, stork-like expression. Squatting on the floor were three trouserless, dirt-incrusted
boys; he was pointing at a chart standing before their eyes, and all together they were shouting
some word that exploded away down in their throats in tremendous effort and never seemed to
reach their lips. I called out and waved my hand as I went by, and when I looked back, a hundred
yards farther, I saw that he had come out upon the bamboo platform outside of the door, gaping
after me with his chin thrown forward in that mournful, stork-like way--I should have gone back.

"With him, I must say, the camisa did not mean all that I have suggested, not the sort of degradation
of which it is the symbol in other men. The most extravagant imagination could not have linked
him with anything that smacked of romance, romance however sordid. His vices, I had sized it,
would come rather from an excess of calculation than from a lack of it. No, that camisa was
just a sign of his meanness, his prodigious meanness. And of that I was soon given an extraordinary
example.

"I had with me a young fellow named Ledesma, whom I was training to be assistant maestro. He
was very bright, thirsty to learn, and extremely curious of us white men. I don't believe that
the actions of one of them, for fifty miles around, ever escaped him, and every day he came
to me with some talk, some rumor, some gossip about my fellow-exiles which he would relate
to me with those strange interrogative inflections that he had brought from his native dialect
into English--as if perpetually he were seeking explanation, confirmation. One morning he said
to me: 'The maestro Miller, he does not eat.'

"'No?' I answered, absent-mindedly.

"'No, he never eats,' he reiterated authoritatively, although that peculiar Visayan inflection
of which I have spoken gave him the air of asking a question.

"'Oh, I suppose he does,' I said, carelessly.

"'He does not eat,' he repeated. 'Every one in Binalbagan say so. Since he there, he has not
bought anything at the store.'

"'His muchachos bring him chicken,' I suggested.

"No, señor; he very funny; he has no muchachos; not one muchacho has he.'

"'Well, he probably has canned provisions sent him.'

"'No, señor; the cargadores they say that never never have they carried anything for him. He
does not eat.'

"'Very well,' I concluded, somewhat amused; 'he does not eat.'

"The boy was silent for a minute, then, 'Señor Maestro,' he asked with suspicious ingenuousness
'can Americans live without eating?'

"So that I was not able to drop the subject as easily as I wished. And coming to a forced consideration
of it, I found that my anxiety to do so was not very beautiful after all. A picture came to
me--that of Miller on his bamboo platform before his door, gazing mournfully after me, his
chin thrown forward. It did not leave me the day long, and at sundown I saddled up and trotted
off toward Binalbagan.

"I didn't reach the pueblo that night, however. Only a mile from it I plunged out of the moonlight
into the pitch darkness of a hollow lane cutting through Don Jaime's hacienda. Banana palms
were growing thick to right and left; the way was narrow and deep--it was a fine place for
cutthroats, but that avocation had lost much of its romantic charm from the fact that, not
three weeks before, an actual cutthroating had taken place, a Chinese merchant having been
boloed by tusilanes. Well, I was trotting through, my right hand somewhat close to my holster,
when from the right, close, there came a soft, reiterated chopping noise. I pulled up my pony.
The sound kept up--a discreet, persistent chopping; then I saw, up above, the moonlit top of
a palm shuddering, though all about it the others remained motionless, petrified as if of solid
silver. It was a very simple thing after all: some one in there was cutting down a palm to
get bananas, an occupation very common in the Philippines, and very pacific, in spite of the
ominous air given to it by the gigantic bolo used. However, something prompted me to draw the
midnight harvester out.

"'Heh, ladron, what are you doing there?' I shouted in dialect.

"'There was a most sudden silence. The chopping ceased, the palm stopped vibrating. A vague
form bounded down the lane, right up against my horse's nose, rolled over, straightened up
again, and vanished into the darkness ahead. Unconsciously I spurred on after it. For a hundred
yards I galloped with nothing in sight. Then I caught a rapid view of the thing as it burst
through a shaft of moonlight piercing the glade, and it showed as a man, a grotesque figure
of a man in loose white pantaloons. He was frightened, horribly frightened, all hunched up
with the frenzy to escape. An indistinct bundle was on his right shoulder. Like a curtain the
dark snapped shut behind him again, but I urged on with a wild hallo, my blood all a-tingle
with the exultation of the chase. I gained--he must have been a lamentable runner, for my poor
little pony was staggering under my tumultuous weight. I could hear him pant and sob a few
yards in advance; then he came into sight, a dim, loping whiteness ahead. Suddenly the bundle
left his shoulder; something rolled along the ground under my horse's hoofs--and I was standing
on my head in a soft, oozy place. I was mad, furiously mad. I picked myself up, went back a
few yards, and taking my pony by the nose picked him up. A touch of his throbbing flanks, however,
warned me as I was putting my foot into the stirrup. I left him there and thundered on foot
down the lane. I have said I was mad. 'Yip-yip-yah-ah, yip-yip-yah-ah!' I yelled as I dashed
on--a yell I had heard among California cattlemen. It must have paralyzed that flying personage,
for I gained upon him shockingly. I could hear him pant, a queer, patient panting, a sigh rather,
a gentle, lamenting sighing, and the white camisa flapped ghostily in the darkness. Suddenly
he burst out of obscurity, past the plantation, into the glaring moonlight. And I--I stopped
short, went down on my hands and knees, and crouched back into the shadow. For the man running
was Miller; Miller, wild, sobbing, disheveled, his shoulders drawn up to his ears in terrible
weariness, his whole body taut with fear, and scudding, scudding away, low along the ground,
his chin forward, mournful as a stork. Soon he was across the luminous space, and then he disappeared
into the darkness on the other side, flopped head first into it as if hiding his face in a pillow.

"I returned slowly to my horse. He was standing where I had left him, his four legs far apart
in a wide base. Between them was the thing cast off by Miller which had thrown us. I examined
it by the light of a box of matches. It was a bunch of bananas, one of those gigantic clusters
which can be cut from the palms. I got on my horse and rode back home.

"I didn't go to see him any more. A man who will steal bananas in a country where they can
be bought a dozen for one cent is too mean to be worth visiting. I had another reason, too.
It had dawned on me that Miller probably did not care to see any of us, that he had come down
to a mode of life which would not leave him appreciative of confrontations with past standards.
It was almost charity to leave him to himself.

"So I left him to himself, and he lived on in his pestilential little hole, alone--lived a
life more squalid every day. It wasn't at all a healthy life, you can understand, no healthier
physically than morally. After a while I heard that he was looking bad, yellow as a lemon,
and the dengue cracking at his bones. I began to think of going to him after all, of jerking
him out of his rut by force, if necessary, making him respect the traditions of his race. But
just then came that Nichols affair, and flaring, his other bad side--his abject cowardice--reappeared
to me. You remember the Nichols thing--boloed in the dark between my town and Himamaylan. His
muchacho had jumped into the ditch. Afterward he got out and ran back the whole way, fifteen
miles, to my place. I started down there. My idea was to pick up Miller as I passed, then Dent
a little further down, find the body, and perhaps indications for White of the constabulary,
to whom I had sent a messenger and who could not reach the place till morning. Well, Miller
refused to go. He had caught hold of some rumor of the happening; he was barricaded in his
hut and was sitting on his bed, a big Colt's revolver across his knees. He would not go, he
said it plainly. 'No, seh; Ah cain't take chances; Ah cain't affawd it.' He said this without
much fire, almost tranquilly, exactly as he had, you remember, at the time of our shipwreck.
It was not so amusing now, however. Here, on land, amid this swarming, mysterious hostility,
at this crisis, it seemed a shocking betrayal of the solidarity that bound all us white men.
A red rage took possession of me. I stood there above him and poured out vituperation for five
good minutes. I found the most extraordinary epithets; I lowered my voice and pierced him with
venomous thrusts. He took it all. He remained seated on his bed, his revolver across his knees,
looking straight at some spot on the floor; whenever I'd become particularly effective he'd
merely look harder at the spot, as if for him it contained something of higher significance--a
command, a rule, a precept--I don't know what, and then he'd say, 'No, Ah cain't; Ah cain't
affawd it.'

"I burst out of there, a-roar like a bombshell. I rode down to Dent; we rode down to the place
and did--what there was to be done. Miller I never wanted to see again.

"But I did. Some three weeks later a carrier came to me with a note--a penciled scrawl upon
a torn piece of paper. It read:

"'I think I am dying. Can you come see me? 'MILLER.'

"I went down right away. He was dead. He had died there, alone, in his filthy little hut, in
that God-forsaken pueblo, ten miles from the nearest white man, ten thousand miles from his home.

"I'll always remember our coming in. It was night. It had been raining for thirty-six hours,
and as we stepped into the unlighted hut, my muchacho and I, right away the floor grew sticky
and slimy with the mud on our feet, and as we groped about blindly, we seemed ankle-deep in
something greasy and abominable like gore. After a while the boy got a torch outside, and as
he flared it I caught sight of Miller on his cot, backed up into one corner. He was sitting
upright, staring straight ahead and a little down, as if in careful consideration. As I stepped
toward him the pliable bamboo floor undulated; the movement was carried to him and he began
to nod, very gently and gravely. He seemed to be saying: 'No, Ah cain't affawd it.' It was
atrocious. Finally I was by his side and he was again motionless, staring thoughtfully. Then
I saw he was considering. In his hands, which lay twined on his knees, were a lot of little
metallic oblongs. I disengaged them. The muchacho drew nearer, and with the torch over my shoulder
I examined them. They were photographs, cheap tintypes. The first was of a woman, a poor being,
sagging with overwork, a lamentable baby in her arms. The other pictures were of children--six
of them, boys and girls, of all ages from twelve to three, and under each, in painful chirography,
a name was written--Lee Miller, Amy Miller, Geraldine Miller, and so on.

"You don't understand, do you? For a moment I didn't. I stared stupidly at those tintypes,
shuffled and reshuffled them; the torch roared in my ear. Then, suddenly, understanding came
to me, sharp as a pang. He had a wife and seven children.

"A simple fact, wasn't it, a commonplace one, almost vulgar, you might say. And yet what a
change of view produced by it, what a dislocation of judgment! I was like a man riding through
a strange country, in a storm, at night. It is dark, he cannot see, he has never seen the country,
yet as he rides on he begins to picture to himself the surroundings, his imagination builds
for him a landscape--a mountain there, a river here, wind-streaming trees over there--and right
away it exists, it is, it has solidity, mass, life. Then suddenly comes a flash of lightning,
a second of light, and he is astounded, absolutely astounded to see the real landscape different
from that indestructible thing that his mind had built. Thus it was with me. I had judged,
oh, I had judged him thoroughly, sized him up to a certainty, and bang, came the flare of this
new fact, this extremely commonplace fact, and I was all off. I must begin to judge again,
only it would never do that man any good.

"A hundred memories came back to me, glared at me in the illumination of that new fact. I remember
the camisa, the bare feet. I saw him running down the lane with his bunch of stolen bananas.
I recalled that absurd scene on the waters; I heard him say: 'No, seh; Ah cain't affawd to
take chances; Ah cain't affawd it.'

"Of course he couldn't afford it. Think--a wife and seven children!

"That night I went through his papers, putting things in order, and from every leaf, every
scrap, came corroboration of the new fact. He was one of those pitiful pedagogues of the rural
South, shiftless, half-educated, inefficient. He had never been able to earn much, and his
family had always gently starved. Then had come the chance--the golden chance--the Philippines
and a thousand a year. He had taken the bait, had come ten thousand miles to the spot of his
maximum value. Only, things had not gone quite right. Thanks to the beautiful red-tape of the
department, three months had gone before he had received his first month's pay. Then it had
come in Mex., and when he had succeeded in changing it into gold it had dwindled to sixty dollars.
Of course, he had sent it all back, for even then it would take it six more weeks to reach
its destination, and sixty dollars is hardly too much to tide over five months for a family
of eight. These five months had to be caught up in some way, so every month his salary, depreciated
ten per cent by the change, had gone across the waters. He wore camisas and no shoes, he stole
bananas. And his value, shoeless, camisa-clothed, was sixty dollars a month. He was just so
much capital. He had to be careful of that capital.

"Yes, I found confirmation, but, after all, I did not need it. I had learned it all; understanding
had come to me, swift, sharp, vital as a pang, when in the roaring light of the torch I had
looked upon the pale little tintypes, the tintypes of Lee and Amy and Jackson and Geraldine."
His mop of hair should have been white, but sun--and weather-beat had burned and bitten it
so that it hung limp and lifeless and colorless. He took no interest in what went on around him.

DOWN THE FLUME WITH THE SNEATH PIANO

BY

BAILEY MILLARD

Reprinted from The Century Magazine by permission

I HAD halted at Camp Five to catch my breath. This flying down a Sierran lumber-flume, scurrying
through the heady air like another Phaeton, was too full of thrills to be taken all in one
gasp. I dropped limply into the rawhide-bottomed chair under the awning in front of the big
board shanty which was on stilts beside the airy flume, and gazed on down the long, gleaming,
tragic, watery way to the next steep slide. Then I looked at the frail little flume-boat which
had borne Oram Sheets and me thus far on our hazardous journey to the valley. Perhaps I shivered
a bit at the prospect of more of this hair-raising adventure. At any rate, Oram, the intrepid
flume-herder, laughed, dug his picaroon into a log, and asked:

"Sorry yeh come? Wal, it does git onto a man's nerve the first trip. Strange so many brash
ones like you wanter try, but few on 'em ever dast git in ag'in. But I've be'n down so often."
Then he peered about the cabin. "Looks like none o' the boys was to home. Wish they was; they
might git us up a little dinner. It's jest twelve."

He went inside the open door, and I heard him foraging about, the shanty echoing hollowly to
the clumping of his big boots. By and by his nasal note was resumed:

"Come in, pardner! Here's a great find: a big can o' green gages an' a hunk o' jerk an' a lot
o' cold biscuits."

Inside, with my legs under the greasy, coverless table, I chewed the jerk like one who was
determined to give his jaws the benefit of strenuous physical culture, and listened while Oram
rattled on, with his mouth full of the sodden, half-baked biscuits.

"You mightn't think it," said he, "but three years ago this here was the most scrumptious camp
on the hull flume. Ol' man Hemenway lived here then with his daughter Jess. She kep' house
fer him. Jess was a great gal. Every man along the flume, from Skyland to Mill Flat, was in
love with her. Shape? You couldn't beat that there gal for figger if yeh was to round up every
actress in the country. She had a pair o' big round baby-blue eyes, an' was as pretty as any
o' them there cigarette picters. A little on the strawbary-blonde, but not too much red in
her hair, an' yet spunky as a badger when yeh teased her.

"The boys down this way didn't have much show. It looked like Jess had hit it off with Jud
Brusie, a big, husky, clean-lookin' chap up to the h'ist. Jud used ter send her down notes
stuck in sticks wedged inter the clamps, an' he used ter sneak down this way on Sundays when
he'd git a chanst. She'd meet him up to the Riffles there by that big bunch o' yaller pines
we passed. He didn't dast come down here nary time till ol' man Hemenway he got laid up with
a busted laig from slippin' off the trestle in the snow. That there was Jud's show ter git
in his fine work. Used ter bring down deer-meat for the ol' man, an' sody-water from that there
spoutin' spring up ter Crazy Cañon; an' it begun to look like Hemenway'd give in an' let him
have her. But he seemed to hold off.

"The boys used ter nearly josh the life out o' Jud. One fellow--his name was Phil Pettis--was
skunkin' mean enough to read a note Jud sent down oncet an' tell about it roun' Skyland; but
that was the only time any of 'em ever done anything like that, fer Jud jest laid fer Phil
an' went through him like a buzz-saw an' chucked him inter the flume.

"No, it didn't kill Phil, but he got tol'able well used up. His clothes was nearly all tore
off, an' his hands got some bruised where he caught on to the aidges before he got a holt an'
lifted himself out in a still place. He'd be'n all right only he got mixed up with a string
o' lumber that was a-comin' down, an' so he had to go to the hospital.

"One thing about Jess--she was a singer all right. I ain't never heer'd ary one o' them there
the-ay-ter gals that could beat her singin'. She warbled like a lark with his belly full o'
grubworms. It was wuth ridin' a clamp from here to Mill Flat to hear her sing. She had a couple
o' hymn-books an' a stack o' them coon songs the newspapers gives away, an' I tell yeh, she'd
sing them there songs like she'd knowed 'em all her life. Picked out the tunes some ways on
a little string-thing like a sawed-off guitar. Sounds like muskeeters hummin' aroun'. Yes,
a mandy-linn--that's it. But that there mandy-linn didn't soot her a little bit. She was crazy
ter have a pianner. I heer'd her tell her paw, who was aroun' ag'in workin' after his busted
laig got well, she'd give ten years o' her life for any ol' cheap pianner he could skeer up
fer her.

"'Wal,' says he, 'how in tunket am I a-goin' ter git anything like that--thirty miles off'n
the road, an' nary way o' freightin' it up or down the cañon to this camp?'

"'Couldn't yeh have it brung up to Skyland by the stage road,' asts she, 'an' then have it
rafted down the flume? Jest a little one?' she asts very earnest-like.

"'Gee whittaker!' says he, laughin' all over. 'You'll be a-wantin' 'em to send yeh down a parlor-keer
nex'.'

"Then she gits hot in the collar an' cries an' takes on, an' Jud, who was a-hangin' aroun',
has to walk her up to the Riffles; an' he must 'a' comforted her a heap, fer she comes back
alone, singin,' 'Nearer, my God, to Thee,' like a angel.

"The' was a big spill up to the Devil's Gate,--one o' them places back there where the flume
hangs onto the side o' the cliff, about half a mile above the bottom o' the gulch,--an' Jud
Brusie an' all hands has to work there three days an' nights ter git things straightened out.
Jud worked so derned hard, up all night an' hangin' on ter the ropes he was let up an' down
by till yeh'd think he was ready to drop, that the soop'rintendent said he'd make Jud flume
boss when he got back from Noo York, where he was a-goin' fer a few months. The soop'rintendent--that's
Mr. Sneath--went over the hull flume with Jud a little while before he lit out for the East,
p'intin' things out ter him that he wanted did when he got back. I was down here flume-herdin'
at Five when him an' Jud come along in a dude-lookin' flume-boat, rigged out in great style.
I stopped 'em back there a ways with my picaroon, when they sung out, an' they walked down
here on the side planks. Jest as they got near the camp the soop'rintendent he stopped like
he'd struck a rotten plank an' stared at the house.

"'Who's that singin'?' says he.

"'Miss. Hemenway,' says Jud, proud-like.

"'She's got an awful sweet voice,' says the ol' man. 'It oughter be trained. She ought to go
to a hot-house'--or something like that. 'Conservatory?' Yes, that's it.

"'She's mighty anxious to l'arn,' says Jud. 'She wants a pianner awful bad.'

"'Does she?' says the soop'rintendent. 'She oughter have one.'

"When he come along to the house he says to Jess, who stuck her head outer the door an' looked
kinder skeer'd-like, says he, 'I wish yeh'd sing a few songs fer me.'

"Wal, yeh could see wal enough that Jess's knees was a-knockin' together, but she tunes up
her mandy-linn, scratches at the strings with a little chip, an' gits started all right on
'Rock o' Ages,' an' gits to goin' along kinder quavery-like fer a while, an' then she busts
right inter, 'He'r dem Bells,' so strong an' high an' wild that it takes the ol' man right
out o' his boots.

"He claps his hands an' yells, 'Hooray! Give us another!'

"Then she saws along on, 'Gather at the River,' an' chops inter, 'All Coons Looks Alike ter
Me,' in a way to stop the mill.

"Her paw stan's aroun' all the while, tickled t' death an' smilin' all over.

"'Wal,' says the soop'rintendent, when Jess she stops ter git her wind, 'yer all right, Miss.
Hemenway. Yer as full o' music as a wind-harp in a tornado.' Then he says to her paw on the
Q. T., 'If yeh was ter let that gal go ter the city an' l'arn some o' them high-toned op'ry
songs, yeh wouldn't have to be picaroonin' lumber strings much longer.'

"'Yes,' says Hemenway, bloated up like a gobbler an' lookin' at Jess where she stan's with
her face red an' still a-puffin' for breath; 'an' she thinks she could l'arn right here if
she only had a pianner.'

"'She'd oughter have one,' says Mr. Sneath. 'I wish----' he says, an' then he breaks off like
a busted log-chain. 'But we couldn't git it down here.'

'"What's that?' asts Hemenway.

"'We got a pianner up to our place, an' Mrs. Sneath won't be a-fingerin' on it fer five months.
She's a-goin' East with me. If we could only git it down here an' back all right. If the' 's
only a road from Skyland down here or from Mill Flat up, but the' ain't, so the' 's no use
talkin'. Couldn't ship it down to the Flat an' up on mule-back, or nothin', either; so I guess
it can't be did.'

"'Why not send it down the flume?' asts Jess, timid-like. I could see she was jest crazy about
gittin' it.

"'Oh, the flume is old, an' it's rotten in places, an' such a heavy load might go through.'

"'Why, it holds up the grub-boat all right,' says Jess 'Oh, if I could only have that pianner
down here! I can play a little already, an' I'd l'arn a lot. I'd practise eight hours a day.'

"'How about gittin' the meals?' asts Hemenway.

"'Wal, I'd set up, then, an' practise all night,' says she.

"'I'm afeard that 'u'd be pretty hard on yer paw,' says Mr. Sneath, smilin'. 'Wal, Jud, we
got ter be goin'.'

"So they gits inter their dude boat, an' Jess she skips along after 'em, an' jest as they's
about to ontie she yells out to the soop'rintendent:

"'Cain't I have it? Cain't I have it? Cain't yeh send it down the flume? Please say yeh will.
I'll take the best kind o' keer of it. It sha'n't git a single scratch.'

"Mr. Sneath he looks at her a minute kinder tender-like, an' I knowed them big eyes o' hern
was a-doin' their work. Them big soft baby eyes would 'a' drawed sap outer a dead log.

"'Wal,' says he, 'we'll see. If Mrs. Sneath's willin' I guess it'll be all right.'

"'Thank you, thank you, thank you!' she yells as the boat flies down the flume.

"I seed Jud blow a kiss to her, an' I knowed she was happy as a bird. She was a-singin' aroun'
the shanty all day, an' at supper she done nothin' but talk, talk, talk about that there pianner.

"'Don't be so awful gay, Miss. Hemenway,' says I, for I was afeard she might be disapp'inted.
'Yeh ain't got it yet. Yeh know, Mr. Sneath's a' awful busy man, an' he may fergit it.'

"'Oh, he won't fergit! Jud'll poke him up on it,' says she. 'An' I think I'll have it put right
over there in that corner. No, that's on the flume side, an' it might draw dampness there.
Over there by the winder's the place, an' plenty o' light, too. Wonder if they'll think to
send down a stool.'

"I had to skin up to Skyland nex' day. Jud says the soop'rintendent has to light out quicker'n
he'd thought, but he didn't fergit about the pianner. Mis' Sneath was as easy as greased skids,
but Mr. Sneath he didn't know exactly. He sends the pianner over to the warehouse there 'longside
the flume an' has the men slap together a stout boat to run her down in; but at the las' minute
he backs out. He was a-lookin' at the pianner standin' there in the warehouse, an' he says
to Jud, says he:

"'That there pianner has be'n in our family ever sence we was married. Marthy allus sot a heap
o' store by that pianner. It was my first present to her, an' I know she thinks a hull lot
of it, even if she don't seem ter keer. Trouble is, she don't know what sendin' it down the
flume means. Yeh see, it ain't like a long string o' lumber--weight's all in one place, an'
she might break through. This flume ain't what it was thirteen years ago, yeh know.'

"Jud he argies with him, 'cos he knows Jess's heart'll be broke if she don't git the pianner;
an' after a while he thinks he's got it all fixed; but jest afore Sneath an' his wife takes
the stage he telaphones down to the warehouse to let the pianner stay there till he comes back.
Then he goes away, an' Jud is as down in the mouth as if he'd run his fist ag'in' a band-saw.
He mopes aroun' all day, an' he's afeard to tell Jess; but as I was a-goin' back to Five that
night, he tells me to break it to her gentle-like an' say he'd done his best. Which I did.
Wal, that gal jest howls when I tells her, an' sobs an' sobs an' takes on like a baby coyote
with the croup. But her dad he quiets her at last.

"Jud he hardly dasts to show up on Sunday, but when he does, she won't look at him fer quite
a while. Then some o' that strawbary-blonde in her comes out in some o' the dernedest scoldin'
yeh ever heer'd.

"'It's too bad, Jessie,' says he, 'but it ain't my fault. I done my best. He backed out at
the las' minute; he backed out, an' I couldn't do no more than if a tree dropped on me. He
backed out.'

"After a while he takes her off up the flume a piece, an' they stays there a long time, but
she don't seem satisfied much when she comes back. There is hell a-poppin' there for about
three days over that there pianner, an' the ol' man he gits so sick of it he gives her warnin'
he'll light out if she don't quit. Wal, she quiets down some after that, but she makes Jud
as mis'able as a treed coon fer over a week. She keeps a-tryin' an' a-tryin' to git him to
send the pianner down anyway. She tells him she'll send it back afore the Sneaths gits home.

"'He told me I could have it; he promised me,' says she, 'he promised me, an' I'll never marry
you unless you send it down. You can do it; you're goin' to be boss, an' you know it will be
all right. I'll see that they ain't a scratch on it; an' you can put it in the warehouse, an'
they'll never know it's be'n away.'

"An' so she keeps a-teasin' an' a-teasin', till finally Jud he gits desperate.

"'Oram,' says he to me one day, 'Oram, you're an ol' flume man. What do you think o' runnin'
that pianner down to Five?'

"I shakes my head. I likes the boy, an' I don't want ter see him take sech big chances o' gittin'
inter trouble. Somebody might tell Sneath, an' then it might be all off about his bein' flume
boss. Besides, nobody had never run no pianner down no flume before, an' yeh couldn't tell
what might happen.

"'D' yeh think, honest, Oram,' says he, 'the ol' flume's likely ter give way anywheres?'

"'No,' says I; 'she's strong as a railroad-track.'

"'Wal, then,' says he, 'I'm a-goin' to do it. You come down Sunday an' we'll take her out afore
anybody's out o' the bunk-house.'

"I tries to argy him out of it, but he won't listen. So Sunday, about five in the mornin',
I goes up to Skyland, an' we slides the big boat inter the flume an' gits the pianner onto
the rollers, an' 't ain't much trouble to load her all right; fer, yer know, them big boats
has flat tops like decks, an' things sets up on top of 'em. But while we was a-doin' that an'
the boat is hitched tight to a stanchion 'longside o' the flume, the water backs up behind
so high that it looks as though the pianner is a-goin' ter git wet. This skeers Jud, an' he
seems to lose his head someways.

"'Hustle up, Oram!' says he, very nervous-like. 'The boat's crowdin' down so it won't let any
water past. Ontie that rope.'

"I takes a good notice o' the pianner, an' I don't like her looks, sittin' up there so high
on that little deck.

"'We oughter tie her on good an' tight,' says I.

"She's a upright, yeh see, an' she's as top-heavy as a pile-driver. I was afeard she'd strike
a low limb or somethin' an' git smashed. So I goes to settle her a bit an' lay her down on
her back an' tie her on; but he says he don't know about that layin'-down business, an' declares
she'll ride all right. He speaks pretty sharp, too. So I gits a little huffy an' onties the
rope, an' we starts.

"Wal, she don't go very fast at first, 'cos she's heavy an' they ain't none too much water
in front; but after a while we comes to the Devil's Slide,--you remember the place,--an' we
scoots down there like the mill-tails o' hell.

"'Gee-whiz!' says Jud. 'She's a-rockin' like a teeter. I hope she'll stay on all right.' He
was settin' back with me, behind the pianner, an' we both tries to holt on to her an' keep
her stiddy, but we cain't do much more'n set down an' cuss haff the time, we're so afeard we'll
git throwed out. Wal, after we come to the foot of the slide, we breathes easy-like, an' Jud
he says it's all right, for that there was the wust place. For about three miles the pianner
set on that boat as stiddy as a church, an' from there on down to Four it was pretty good sailin'.
Of course we went a good deal faster in the steep places than any other boat ever sent down
the flume, because the heft o' the thing, when she got started, was bound to make her fly,
water or no water. In a good many places we run ahead o' the stream, an' then in the quiet
spots the water would catch up to us an' back up behind us an' shove us along.

"Between Four an' Five there's a place we used ter call Cape Horn. The flume is bracketed onto
a cliff, yeh know, fer about a mile, an' it's a skeery place any way yeh shoot it; yeh scoot
aroun' them there sharp curves so lively, an' yeh look down there four or five hundred feet
inter the bottom o' the cañon. That's where yeh shut yer eyes. Yeh remember? Wal, when I sees
Cape Horn ahead I gits a little skeer'd when I thinks how she might rock. We run onto a place
where I could look away ahead, an' there, wavin' her apron or somethin', is a gal, an' I knows
it's Jess, out from Five to see the pianner come down. Jud he knows, too, an' waves back.

"We runs out onto the brackets, turns a sharp curve, an' she begins to wabble an' stagger like
a drunken man, floppin' back an' forth, an' the strings an' things inside is a-hummin' an'
a-drummin'.

"'Slow her down!' yells Jud. 'Slow her down, or we'll never git past the Horn!'

"I claps on the brake, but she's so heavy she don't pay no 'tention to it, though I makes smoke
'long them planks, I tell yer. She scoots ahead faster'n ever, an' bows to the scenery, this
way an' that, like she was crazy, an' a-hummin' harder than ever.

"'Slow her down! Ease her down!' hollers Jud, grittin' his teeth an' holdin' onto her with
all his hundred an' eighty pounds weight. But 't ain't no good. I gits a holt oncet, but the
water backs up behind us an' we goes a-scootin' down on a big wave that sloshes out o' the
flume on both sides an' sends us flyin' toward that Horn fer further orders.

"When we gits to the sharpest curve we knows we're there all right. She wabbles on one side
an' then on the other, so I can see chunks o' sky ahead right under her. An' then, all of a
sudden, she gives a whoopin' big jump right off the top o' the boat, an' over the side o' the
flume she goes, her strings all a-singin' like mad, an' sailin' down four hundred feet. Jud
had a holt of her before she dropped, an' if I hadn't 'a' grabbed him he'd 'a' gone over, too.

"You might not believe it, pardner, but we run a quarter of a mile down that there flume before
we hears her strike. Jeroosalem! What a crash! I ever heer'd one o' them big redwoods that
made half so much noise when she dropped. How she did roar! An' I tell yeh what was strange
about that there noise: it seemed like all the music that everybody had ever expected to play
on that pianner for the nex' hundred years come a-boomin' out all to oncet in one great big
whoop-hurray that echered up an' down that cañon fer half an hour.

"'We've lost somethin',' says I, cheerful-like, fer I thinks the' 's no use cryin' over spilt
pianners.

"But Jud he never says nothin',--jest sets there like he was froze plumb stiff an' couldn't
stir a eyelid--sets there, starin' straight ahead down the flume. Looks like his face is caught
in the air and held that way.

"Of course, now our load's gone, the brake works all right, an' I hooks a-holt onto the side
about a hundred feet from where Jess stands like a marble statute, lookin' down inter the gulch.

"'Come on, Jud,' says I, layin' my hand onto his arm soft-like; 'we gits out here.'

"He don't say nothin', but tries to shake me off. I gits him out at last, an' we goes over
to where poor Jess stands, stiff an' starin' down inter the gulch. When she hears our feet
on the side planks, she starts up an' begins to beller like a week-old calf; an' that fetches
Jud outer his trance for a while, an' he puts his arm aroun' her an' he helps her back along
the walk till we comes to a place where we gits down an' goes over to view the wreck.

"Great snakes, pardner, but it was a sight! The pianner had flew down an' lit onto a big, flat
rock, an' the' wasn't a piece of her left as big as that there plate. There was all kinds o'
wires a-wrigglin' aroun' on the ground an' a-shinin' in the sun, an' the' was white keys an'
black keys an' the greatest lot o' them little woolly things that strikes the strings all mixed
up with little bits o' mahogany an' nuts an' bolts an' little scraps o' red flannel an' leather,
an' pegs an' bits o' iron that didn't look as if it had ever been any part o' the machine.
It was the dernedest mess! I picked up somethin' Jess said was a pedal,--a little piece o'
shiny iron about as long as that,--'n' that was the only thing that seemed to have any shape
left to it. The litter didn't make any pile at all--jest a lot o' siftin' sawdust-stuff scattered
aroun' on the rocks.

"'She struck tol'able hard,' says I, lookin' at Jud. But he don't say nothin'; jest stan's
over there on the side o' the rock an' looks as if he'd like to jump off another fifty feet
the' was there.

"'Don't take it like that, Jud,' says Jess, grabbin' holt o' him an' not payin' any 'tention
to my bein' there. 'Cry, cuss, swear--anything, but don't be so solemn-like. It's my fault,
Juddie dear--all my fault. Can yeh ever, ever fergive me? Yeh said yeh didn't think it was
safe, an' I kep' a-goadin' yeh to it; an' now----' She broke out a-blubberin' an' a-bellerin'
again, an' he puts his arm aroun' her an' smiles, an' says soft-like:

"'It don't matter much. I can raise the money an' buy a new one fer Mis' Sneath. How much do
they cost?' says he.

"'Oh, I dunno! Five hundred dollars, I think. It's an awful lot o' money!'

"'Wal, I got three-fifty saved up,--you know what fer,--an' I can raise the rest an' put a
new pianner in the place o' that one,' says he.

"He looks at the wreck, an' fer the first time I sees his eyes is jest a little damp.

"They didn't either of 'em seem to take any notice o' me, an' I didn't feel that I counted, nohow.

"'An' we cain't git married,' says Jud, sorrowful-like, 'fer ever so long. There'll be nothin'
to house-keep on till I can save up some more.'

"'Yes, we can, too,' says she. 'I don't keer if yeh ain't got so much as a piece o' bale-rope.'

"'But yer paw?'

"'I don't keer,' says she, very hard-like, a-stampin' her foot. 'He can like it or lump it.'

"Wal, I sneaks away an' leaves 'em there, an' by an' by they comes up to where I sets on top
o' the boat, an' Jud isn't so plumb gloomy as I thinks he'd be.

"Him an' her goes down ter Fresno nex' day an' buys one o' that same identical make o' pianners
an' has it shipped up on the first freight-wagon to Skyland. An' they puts it inter the warehouse,
an' there she stands till Mr. Sneath comes home with his wife.

"When Mis' Sneath she sees the pianner brung inter her house she don't notice any difference
fer a while; but one day she sets down ter play, an' she pounds out a few music, an' then she
gives a jump an' looks all over the machine an' she says, 'Good Lord!' An' Sneath he comes
in, an' they has a great time over how the' 's be'n sech a change in that pianner. She finally
makes up her mind it's a bran'-new one, an' sends fer Jud an' asts him what he knows about
it. An' he cain't lie a little bit, so he up an' tells her that her pianner is all inter sawdust
an' scrap-iron down on the rocks, an' that this is a new one that he owes a hundred an' fifty
dollars on down ter Fresno.

"Then she busts out a-laughin', an' says:

"'Why, that old tin-pan! I'm glad it flew the flume. It wasn't wuth twenty dollars. I got a
noo grand pianner on the way here that I ordered in Noo York. I'll make this here one a weddin'
present to you an' Jess.'

"And the soop'rintendent he writes out his check an' sends it down to Fresno to pay off the
hundred an' fifty, an' when the weddin' it comes off he gives 'em a set o' chiny dishes besides.

"Jud's flume boss now, an' Jess she plays that pianner an' sings like a bird. When we gits
down ter Mill Flat I'll show yeh their house. It's a white one up on the side o' the hill,
jest across the gulch from the mill.

"Wal, yeh had all the grub yeh want, pardner? Say, ain't them green gages sour? They sets yer
teeth on aidge all right. An' I couldn't find the boys' sugar-can. If yer full up, I guess
we'd better git inter the boat."

I took my seat behind Oram and a particularly offensive pipe he had just lighted. I remarked
that if he saw any of those Cape Horn curves ahead to let me know and I would get out and walk.

"Don't yeh be skeer'd by what I told yeh," said he. "Yeh got a pretty fair-sized head, but
yeh ain't quite so top-heavy as Mis' Sneath's big upright. An', besides, the' ain't no more
Cape Horn on this flume; they calls that place Pianner P'int now."

THE CONTUMACY OF SARAH L. WALKER

BY

MIRIAM MICHELSON

Reprinted from Munsey's Magazine of April, 1904 by permission

"THE BOARD will now pass to consideration of the case of Mrs.--Mrs. Walker."

The president looked from the report in front of her to the superintendent sitting opposite.

The Rev. Alexander McCaleb rose slowly to his feet.

"I regret exceedingly," he said, "to have to report this case to the board. I need not say
that if it had been possible to convince Mrs. Walker of the error of her ways, no pains or
time would have been spared. But I have done all that I could. Mrs. Walker persists. She--ah!--she
flouts all authority, and--ah!--sets such an example of rebellious conduct that I fear the
discipline of the home may be gravely compromised."

The president knitted her pretty, dark brows. Her hair was white, with a soft, youthful whiteness
that haloed her head as if it was a joke of old Time's. She was new to her office, and was
conscious of a critical atmosphere that subtly underlined the formality of the proceedings--an
official formality that made the meeting of the lady managers of this Old People's Home a formidable
affair.

"I see no record of any case of disciplining heretofore," she said, troubled. "There is no
precedent by which the chair can be----"

"But there are the by-laws," suggested the superintendent. He reached over to his own desk,
and read from a pamphlet that had lain open there: "If any inmate of the home shall persistently
and willfully disobey the rules, the superintendent shall report such case to the board of
managers. If, after full and complete investigation, and a notice to that effect having been
duly served, said inmate shall continue to persist in contumacy, the board is by a majority
vote empowered to expel."

A little hush fell upon the assemblage at this invocation of its dread powers.

"It seems rather hard on the old bodies, doesn't it?" the president was encouraged to remark.

"But it is plainly stated in the by-laws," said the recording secretary, a bright-eyed, business-like
matron.

"And dear Mr. McCaleb is so patient and tactful that it is seldom necessary," remarked the
single member of this week's visiting committee.

"I thank you, Mrs. Davis." The superintendent bowed in his stateliest manner. "I do my best--I
try always to do my best. Old people are trying, we all know."

The president looked up from her perusal of the by-laws.

"Suppose we have the old lady in," she said. "Mr. McCaleb, will you send for Mrs. Walker?"

The old lady held her head haughtily as she walked into the handsomely furnished office. The
president, mindful of her official capacity, looked severely upon Mrs. Walker--Sarah Lucinda
Walker, according to the cramped signature of the home's register, widow, native of Maine,
aged sixty-seven on her entrance into the home five years ago. And Mrs. Walker--a miracle of
aged neatness, trim, straight, little, in her somber black and immaculate cap--looked severely
back.

"Be seated, Mrs. Walker," said the president.

"Thank you." Mrs. Walker crossed with a formal "Good morning, ladies," and took the chair indicated.

"Now, Mr. McCaleb, if you please----" said the president.

The superintendent rose.

"Ladies," he began with a solemnity that made the offender quake within, though outwardly she
was calm as the president herself, "it is with positive pain that I have to report to you the
case of Mrs. Sarah Lucinda Walker. It is now fully three months since I began to labor with
her--three months since I warned her of this very thing that has come to pass, an investigation
by your honorable board. On the 9th of January"--he glanced methodically at a note-book--"I
sent her a copy of the by-laws, with the section referring to insubordination underscored in
red ink. On the 23d I made a personal call upon her, and sought to convince her how impossible
it was that such conduct could be tolerated. On February 7th I publicly reprimanded her. On
the 13th--five days ago--I informed her that, after considering it prayerfully, I had laid
the matter before your honorable body, and that she should hold herself in readiness to be
summoned before you to meet the following charges:

"First, insubordination; second, breaking Rule VIII of the house regulations; third, taking
food from the table; fourth, disturbing neighbors in early morning; and fifth, defacing the
building."

Mr. McCaleb took his seat. The shocked gaze of the board bent itself upon the criminal. The
bad little old lady's far-sighted eyes swept insolently past them all and met the president's--twenty
years younger than her own.

"Do you like birds, ma'am?" she asked, herself in an eager, bird-like way. And then, without
waiting for an answer, she went on: "I love 'em--anything that's got wings. Old Cap'n Walker
used to say, 'Sary Lucindy, they was a moughty fine ornithologist spiled when God A'mighty
made you a woman 'stead of a man.' He was a free-spoken man, Cap'n Walker, not so pious-mouthed
as some, but he had charity in his soul, which is more than some others has."

She swept a superbly disdainful look toward the Rev. McCaleb. The recording secretary tapped
reprovingly with her pencil, but the president only listened.

"Now, ma'am, we ain't paupers, we old folks. Every one of us, as you know, has paid our thousand
dollars in. An' we ain't bad children as needs disciplinin'; an' they's no use treatin' grandmothers
an' great-grandmothers as though they was. It's in me to love birds, an' no 'mount of rules
and regulations is goin' to change me. My canary bird died the same year Cap'n Walker saved
every other soul on board his ship and went down alone to the bottom with her. Since then I've
sort o' adopted the sparrers. Why, haven't I spent every afternoon through the summer out in
the park a-feedin' them my lunch? An' now that winter's come, d'ye think I'd have the face
to desert them?

"'Not one of them is forgotten before God'--do you remember, ma'am? One of 'em seemed to be
in the early winter. It was before my rheumatism got so bad. I was out in the park the afternoon
the first snow fell, an' this poor little crittur with a wing broke kep' a trailin' an' chirpin'
an' scuttlin' in front o' me. It'd fell out o' the nest; hardly covered with feathers, it was.
I picked it up an' carried it to my room in my apron. Poor little mite--how it fluttered an'
struggled! I kep' it overnight in my spool-box. In the mornin' I fed it; by noon the sun come
out, an' I let it out on the window-sill, where I keep my house plants; just a bit o' musk--the
cap'n liked musk--an' a pot o' bergamot. Do you know, ma'am, that little thing was that contented
by the end of the week that I could leave the windows open an' nary a wing's stroke away would
it go? That was in December, 'fore it got to be known that I kep' a bird in my room. That mild
spell we had 'fore Christmas it did fly away one morning, but at sundown there it was back
again; an' when it came on to snow that night I felt same's I used to 'tween voyages, when
I could hear how the ocean'd get lashed to a fury, an' Cap'n Walker'd be fast asleep safe beside
me.

"Of course it was a pity that when the bird came back it showed others the way--but wasn't
it cute of it, ma'am? An' wasn't it just like a lot o' children hangin' 'round at maple-syrup
time? They did make a clatter an' a racket in the early mornin' when I wouldn't be up an' they'd
be ready for breakfast. But wasn't it for all the world like children with empty little stummicks
an' chatterin' tongues? When Mis' Pearson complained of me an' the noise, I didn't take it
kind of her. Take food from the table? Course I did. But it was my own lunch, that I'd a right
to go hungry for ef I wanted to, an' nobody's affair.

"But I tell you, ma'am, one day--it was that day Mr. McCaleb sent me that printed notice, an'
everybody on my floor see it comin' an' knew it was something shameful an' legal--that evening
I tried honestly to keep 'em out. I pulled down the shade--it was a bitter cold day, a regular
blizzard blowing--an' I sat with my back to the window an' tried to read my Bible while them
birds jest shrieked themselves hoarse outside. Well, guess where that Bible opened to! I opened
the window an' scattered their bread-crumbs out on the sill, which I had made jest the least
bit wider for them--that's what he calls 'defacin' the buildin'.' After that, I told Mr. McCaleb
flat-footed that if he had the heart to starve them innocent critturs in the dead o' winter,
it was more than I had. I told him if he'd wait till spring, I'd promise never to open the
window that faces south after that; but till they could shift for themselves, I'd shift for
them. That's all. Thank you, ma'am, for letting me have my say."

She smiled into the president's soft eyes, and rose, looking like a trim, saucy, gray-haired
sparrow about to take flight. The president's smile started back to her, but on the way it
had to pass the recording secretary, the visiting committee, and the Rev. Alexander McCaleb.
By the time it had made the journey it was shorn of half its sympathetic understanding.

"You admit then, Mrs. Walker, that you have broken the rule against having pets in the room?"
the president asked with gravity. "It is a necessary rule. Fancy what would be the condition
of the place if a lady in No. 117 had a tame sparrow, a gentleman in No. 120 a monkey, his
neighbor a spaniel, the lady across the way a cat, and so on! I appreciate--we all do, and
Mr. McCaleb more than all of us--how tender and charitable a nature yours is, but"--she looked
at the recording secretary to gain courage--"but we simply must enforce the rules. I know so
good a housekeeper as you must have been will understand this, and agree with me when I say
that such a disciplinarian as Captain Walker no doubt was--unfortunately, I never had the pleasure
of his acquaintance--would have been the first to counsel you to obey the rules. Won't you
think it over from our point of view, Mrs. Walker, when you go back to your room? Do! Good
afternoon."

It was a very dejected Sarah Lucinda Walker that returned to her room. Her depression was noted
and audibly commented upon by Mrs. Pearson, her next-door neighbor and arch-enemy. In fact,
the whole corridor was alive with the news of her defeat. At the lunch-table it was the sole
topic of conversation, and in the library old Colonel Rockwell--in the pauses of a quavering
rendition of "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep"--bet Mr. Patterson three of the cigars his
nephew always sent him on Fridays that Mrs. Walker, being a woman of spirit, would not yield
even though the ultimatum were expulsion.

Mrs. Walker heard of the wager, of course, that afternoon. They were a hundred or more antiquated
and unseaworthy vessels, all anchored in a semi-genteel haven; and from morning till night,
till sun should cease for them to shine and water to flow they had nothing to do but to listen
to the whispering tide that told of the great ocean of life beyond, or to gossip among themselves
of their own voyages dead and done.

The incorrigible Mrs. Walker's spotless little room, with its bag of dried crusts on the window-sill,
saved for her pet, became the storm center that afternoon. Every old lady who could possibly
claim acquaintance called to inquire her intentions; every old gentleman leaned hard upon his
cane as he lifted his hat to her in the halls with the deference due a gallant rebel. They
loved a rebel, these old children, at the end of their lives fallen again into the domain of
"you must" and "you must not."

Sarah Lucinda Walker's world rocked beneath her. She intended, she believed, to obey the rules,
to cast off the one creature on earth to which she could still play Lady Bountiful; to shut
her hospitable window and her loving old heart on all these fluttering, visiting strangers
who had heard of her generosity, and with every hour carried the news of it further.

She intended all this, but when the time came she did simply as old Colonel Rockwell had wagered
she would. She opened wide her windows and fed the hungry throng that whirred about her, scattering
crumbs and floating feathers over the immaculate marble of Mr. McCaleb's front door-step.

A knock at the door brought her to her senses. She put a withered little old hand, very like
a sparrow's claw, upon the window-sash to shut it hastily, and then, too proud to deceive,
turned boldly to meet her fate.

Mrs. Pearson, on the lookout at her half-open door saw the official-looking document handed to her.

"It's her notice to leave," she said in an awed whisper to herself.

In the face of so great a calamity she felt, not triumph, but a shocked sense of loss, of self-reproach.
Five minutes after she was in her enemy's room.

"You mustn't--you mustn't cry, dear Mrs. Walker," she sobbed, putting her arms about the slender
old shoulders.

"Am I crying?" the little old lady answered. "I can't help it--I'm so happy!"

"Happy!" Mrs. Pearson's dazed old eyes turned bewildered from the envelope with the home's
letterhead on it to the bird-like creature in her arms. "And you've got your notice to leave?"

"Did you think it was that? So did I for a minute, an' it 'most killed me. But I opened it,
an' found a note from the president--that dear, dear president! She wants to know if I'll take
care of her summer cottage till the spring comes. An', Marthy Pearson, they's chickens up there--fancy
breeds--a whole yard of 'em--an' I'm to have the feedin' of 'em. Ain't it enough to make a
body cry for joy? Say, Marthy, would you--would you mind feedin' the sparrers?--only on the
very stormiest days--McCaleb would never suspect you, an' spring's near!"

BREAKING THROUGH

BY

W. C. MORROW

Reprinted from Success Magazine of September, 1906 by permission

"RAY," SAID his mother, whom he shyly and secretly worshipped, without her ever suspecting
the least of it beneath his cautious reserve and occasional outbursts of temper, "my son, I
hope you will remember, tonight. You are nearly a man."

She was a wise woman, and said it kindly and meant it well; but his face flamed, his eyes hardened,
and he sullenly walked away. Mrs. Gilbert sighed, and went about the preparations for the young
people's party which her daughters, aged sixteen and eighteen, were to give that evening. She
could not foresee what her son would do. Would her gentle warning, filled with the tender pride
of a mother's love for her one man-child, drive him with his dog to the woods, whither many
a time before this day a word less pointed had sent him, there to live for a week or longer
at a time, in a manner that he had never disclosed?--or would the disjointed thing within him
which harried his somber, lonely life force him in a blind moment to make a disgraceful scene
at the gathering? She prayed that neither would happen, and that the sunshine fighting for
egress through his darkness would come forth soft and genial and very fine and sweet, as it
did sometimes, and always unaccountably....

The worst had happened at the party. No doubt it was intolerable,--but not so bad as when (he
was then only four) he had tried to kill a boy for lying about him and was whipped mercilessly
by his father,--for here, in the library, he was sitting before Mr. Gilbert, who was pale and
whose eyes had a deep, inscrutable look. He was a large and powerful man, and had a genial
nature, with force and sternness. The lad had never seen him looking thus, and so evidently
guarding a prisoner, and the boy felt a strange weight within.

Whatever had happened must have left a shadow on the assemblage, for, though faint sounds came
through the closed doors, they were somewhat lacking in the robustness of youth. Ray did not
deign an effort to remember. More than that, he hoped that it never would come back, for it
might be disturbing to his solitudes. Of his attempts to remember the attack on the boy ten
years ago, there had never come any result but the recollection of a wholly disconnected event,--when
he was enveloped in a swirl of flame and smoke from a fierce grass fire, and had to fight his
way through to life. He did not try to think what his father's purpose was in holding him a
prisoner tonight. Was it to give him a lecture? Pshaw! The beautiful, peaceful woods would
make him forget that child's-play, and he would steal away to them with Cap this very night,
as soon as all were asleep.

Thus, motionless and in silence, sat he and his father, seemingly through an endless, aching
time. After a while the guests quietly left. His sisters omitted their customary good night
to their father. All sounds from the servants ended. Then entered his mother, uncommonly pale,
and in silence looked from her son to her husband. She was small and dainty, and very, very
pretty, the boy reflected. It was a pity that her bright eyes should be dim tonight and her
sweet mouth drawn. She looked worn and as though she dreaded something.

"Are you ready?" Mr. Gilbert asked, regarding her fixedly.

Her lip trembled, but there came a flash from her eyes. "Do you really mean it?" she asked.

"Certainly. It must be done."

"My dear, dear, he's too large for----"

"He'll never be too large for it so long as he is a boor and coward, insults our guests, scandalizes
us all, shames his sisters, and treats his parents with open scorn. He won't try to be like
other people and accept his world as he finds it. His inordinate conceit is a disease. It is
eating up his own life and making our lives miserable. We will cure it."

He had spoken calmly, but with a low vibration of tone; and as he came to his feet he looked
very tall and terrible. Ray's blood began to rise, and as he looked about for something undefined
he felt the heat and smelled the smoke of the grass fire of ten years ago.

He knew he was a coward. That was the shame and the curse of his life. He did not think it
had always been so, but believed it had come about gradually. At first he had not minded the
whippings that other boys gave him because of his temper and his physical inadequacy, for he
had invited the punishment; but when they all learned that his fighting spirit had weakened,
that they could whip him easily, that they need not wait for provocation, and that he would
never tell, they bullied and hounded and beat him until he had come to know a craven, sordid
fear, which spread from the boys to the whole terrible world in which the masculine entity
must fight for a place.

"I am ready," said Mrs. Gilbert, trying to hide a sigh.

"Come," Mr. Gilbert ordered the boy, looking at him for the first time in two hours.

The boy quailed before that look, the most dreadful thing he had ever seen. It made him numb
and sick, and when he rose he staggered; for, though tall, he was slender and had little strength.
The weight on his chest became a pain and fixed on his throat, to choke and torment him.

His mother had gone out. He followed his father, and the three went out into the back yard,
the boy bare-headed. The night was sharp and the moon very bright. All the boy's power of thought
was suspended.

In silence they walked down the terraces of the park-like yard in the rear. Cap, Ray's dog,
his only intimate, came bounding forward for his young master's unfailing good night, but Mr.
Gilbert angrily ordered him away. The animal, astonished and hurt, slunk away, keeping a watchful
view of the group, and sat down at a distance and gazed in wonder. They passed through a gate
into an orchard, and shut the dog out.

Mr. Gilbert selected an apple tree, because the wood was tougher than that of a peach. From
it he cut two switches a yard long, and carefully pared the knots, his wife observing without
a word or a movement, and the boy looking away into the distance. When Mr. Gilbert had done,
he ordered his son to prepare.

The lad numbly, dumbly removed his coat and waistcoat, slipped his suspenders down, tightened
the strap at the back of his trousers, clasped his hands in front, and bowed his head. The
dog, which had crept to the fence and was peering through the pickets, whined anxiously and
was quivering. When roughly ordered away by Mr. Gilbert, he went upon a terrace that overlooked
the fence, and trembled as he watched. The boy did not once look toward him. He was struggling
with the pain in his throat.

Mr. Gilbert offered one of the switches to his wife.

"Oh, how can you!" she pleaded.

"You must," he firmly said. "I'll relieve you when you are tired."

The boy's mind suddenly cleared, and he comprehended. A whipping from his father would be frightful
enough,--not for the blows; they were nothing. The plan was not alone to humiliate him beyond
all measure, but to scourge his soul, ravage the sanctuary of his mother there, rend him asunder,
and cast him into an unthinkable hell of isolation; for she was the bond that held him to the
world, she was the human comfort and sweetness of his life.

Since his tenth year his discipline had been solely in her hands, his father having given him
up as worthless, hopeless. She had whipped him many a time, but not for two years; and he had
felt no pain, no shame, no outrage, no resentment. The case of the teacher was different. Ray
had solemnly sworn, renewing the oath every day, that when he came to manhood he would beat
his teacher to death for whipping him so often and severely because of his dulness, his apathy,
or his rebellion; the whippings from his mother had only increased his tenderness for her,
and, in some way that he could not understand, his pity also. Perhaps it was because he vaguely
felt that she was impairing something in herself that was precious to him. Never had she conquered
him; never had he cried out in pain, never pleaded for mercy, never confessed penitence nor
promised reform.

Mrs. Gilbert shut her teeth hard, and, deathly white in the moonlight, raised the switch. It
was poised a moment, and then her arm fell limp to her side; but the look that her son had
seen in his father's eyes held her and steeled her with a sort of desperate madness, and her
arm again rose.

A long cry, an anguished wail, almost superhuman in its power to shatter the silence of the
night, and more startling than any human cry could be, struck disorganizingly through the drama.
It may have hastened the catastrophe. Mr. Gilbert was unnerved for a moment, and in exasperation
picked up a clod and threw it at the offending dog trembling on the terrace. When he turned
again, his son was kneeling beside his unconscious mother, peering anxiously into her pallid
face, and calling her softly.

In a stride Mr. Gilbert was upon him. A hand armed with strength and fury caught up the shirt
on the lad's shoulder, raised him, and flung him away with so great violence that the slender
body struck the ground as a log. Mr. Gilbert tenderly picked up his wife and bore her into
the house.

The fall had half stunned the boy. As he slowly struggled to a sitting posture the moon danced
fantastically, and some black trees crowning a near hill bowed and rose, and walked sidewise
to and fro. A whine, low, cautious, packed with sympathy and solicitude, pleaded at the pickets,
but the boy gave it no attention. He sat for a time, rose giddily, swayed as he dressed himself,
and with deliberation walked to the gate. The dog, whining, trembling, crawled to meet him;
but the boy, instead of caressing him, ordered him quietly but firmly to the kennel. Obedience
was slow, and the animal looked up incredulous, wondering. The order had to be repeated. Finally
the dog obeyed, frequently pausing to look back, but his master stood inflexible.

Passing round the house, and without thinking or caring about hat and overcoat, he noiselessly
passed out the front gate, for a moment studied the big house that had cradled him, bred much
of his anguish, and held all of his love, and firmly stepped out into the road. There was a
gnawing ache somewhere. Assuredly that one blow,--and from her,--could not have caused it.
After finding it in his throat, he was much relieved, and struck out on secure legs.

It did not occur to him that he was an outlaw and outcast. He did not think at all. Hence there
was no plan in his going. He did not even understand that something deeper within him than
had ever operated before had assumed, in the disqualification of his ordinary ruling powers,
an imperious regency, and that it was infinitely greater or infinitely less than his usual
intelligence. He simply went on, thinking nothing, remembering nothing. The beautiful highway,
arched by great trees, above which rode the moon in keeping pace with him, was a tunnel under
a luminous sea; he half walked, half floated, in the crystal water, and had no wonder that
he breathed it. The houses along the way were the palaces of lordly gnomes that inhabited the deep.

Whatever was leading him turned him out of the avenue at last and drifted him along a winding
road that was as beautiful in its less conventional way. He did not reflect that all of this
was familiar, shamefully familiar. It was the road to his grandmother's but he had not visited
her for a year.

Her great wisdom and tact had gone to a study of the strange, unhappy child; she had been kind
to him in every cautious, delicate fashion that she could devise; but he had ceased coming,
and avoided her when she visited his home, and she had never known why. She was a patient woman
and good; she knew prayer, and in her peaceful twilight she walked with God; yet no revelation
had come at her appeals, for the times were not ready; and the boy went his way alone and silent,
forever alone and silent, and unhappy, unhappy!

A white picket fence was presently marching with him alongside the shining road. He did not
consciously recognize it, and it brought no rekindling of an old terror, an old shame; but
soon, on the other side of it, a distance away, there broke on the stillness a challenge that
he remembered, and its tone was contempt. He understood it, and woke with a start because of
a sudden fluff of flame and a whiff of smoke from the grass fire of ten years ago, and the
ache in his throat gave him a strangling wrench. His head rolled; the moon swung through an
arc of alarming length. That call beyond the fence struck the dominant note of his life, and
it was Fear. Yet it came from a mere animal,--his grandmother's old buckskin horse, the most
docile of creatures.

Ray had never feared the wild things of the woods. The cry of the panther in the dead of night
is dreadful but it had no terrors for the boy in the forest solitude. Other fierce pad-footed
members of the cat tribe had come and sniffed him as he lay under the stars, and experience
had taught him to feign sleep, for a suspicion of his wakefulness would send them bounding
away, and he was lonely, always lonely. One night, roused from slumber, he sleepily put his
hand on the shaggy head of a bear that was curiously rummaging him, and he was sorry that the
beast took alarm and trotted away,--he would have been comfortable to hug. That was before
the dog had come into his life. He could never understand why he was not afraid of anything
whatever--not even of the terrific lightning and thunder that sometimes flamed and crashed
and bellowed all about him,--except human beings and the forces that they controlled; and at
times he wondered why Cap loved him and the buckskin horse would kill him from hate if he could.

Here, then, beyond the picket fence, was the proclamation of his shame,--coming from a gentle,
superannuated horse with no more spirit than a snail's. By some means, perhaps instinctive,--for
all the world, when it finds out, will hunt down and destroy whatsoever fears it (although
the boy had not reasoned it out thus),--the beast had learned that the boy was afraid, and
had then found an interest in life. Let him but have a glimpse of Ray, and, ears back, lips
drawn from hideous yellow teeth, and head thrust horribly forward, he would snort, charge,--and
the boy would run abjectly. The horse had never thus treated another living thing. So the boy
had stayed away from his grandmother's, and she had never suspected, and her love and prayers
had brought no revelation.

As the fence intervened, the horse knew that a charge would be useless; but when, with a neat
leap the boy nimbly caught his feet on the ground within the pasture, the buckskin advanced
in his minatory way. Ray did not know why he had leaped the fence, unless the wrench in his
throat had hurled him over or the flame and smoke of the grass fire had driven him; nor did
he know why he went steadily to meet the horse, nor why his nostrils stretched and his arms
strained and his hands clenched, nor why there was a fierce eagerness in him; a rasping thirst
for something dried his tongue. The horse came on, and the boy, perfectly calm, as fatally
went to meet him. There was no calculation of results, yet the lad knew that a horse's teeth
and hoofs may be deadly. He knew only that he was not going forward to end all his wretchedness,
as, last year, the shoemaker who drank had done with a shotgun, and young Corson, the thieving
clerk, with poison. It occurred to the boy that he cared nothing about the teeth and hoofs
of any horse, and nothing about what they might do.

So ridiculous was the fiasco that he would have laughed had he not been sorry for the beast;
for to see any rampant thing so suddenly stricken with fear, when there was not the least danger
nor any intent of harm, was pitiful to see. He wished to assure the buckskin that he was only
a boy, a frail boy at that, and not what the animal had apparently taken him to be,--a spawn
of Darkness and Terror. He followed up the trembling beast, trying to reassure him and to get
near and pet him; but the creature fled wildly at every advance, and when not pursued stood
with head aloft, ears cocked, and nostrils vibrant, quivering in fear.

Seeing the uselessness of further pacific effort, the boy sprang over the fence, went back
to the main highway, and by the unseen Hand was led into the short cut past Mr. Elderby's house,
where the greatest terror of his life--human excepted--had months ago driven him to use the
long way round. He did not know, nor for a moment consider, why he chose the short cut tonight.
He turned into it, walking free and strong.

Girls had meant nothing in the boy's life. That was because they did not seem members of his
species, but something fragile, mysterious, and ranking somewhere between flowers and angels.
Thus his feeling for them was composed of a little awe, more reverence, and a sense of great
remoteness. Never had he observed them thoughtfully without reflecting that they were, in a
general way, much like his mother, or at least of her species; therefore they must be sweet
and dainty and gentle and kind. His only large swellings of the heart had come from his thinking
about them, particularly Grace Elderby, now twelve years old. Nothing could have been so grand,
for instance, as an opportunity to rescue her single-handed, from wild savages that had her
tied to a tree and were piling fagots about her; then to dance in fiendish glee about her as
the flames rose. He would dash up on a splendid charger, his sword flashing in the sun; savage
heads would roll in the dust, or fall open, cleaved in twain; there would be wild yells of
fright and a wilder flight for life; he would leap from his horse, speak reassuring words while
he severed her bonds, mount with her in his arms, and fly away, away, away.

Twice had Grace seen his shame. She had seen him pale, and run when her father's big, noisy
dog had made a flamboyant show of rage, and she had seen him stand mute and white when Andy
Carmichael, older and larger and much stronger than Ray, grossly insulted him in her presence.
The Elderby dog was the terror that had closed the short cut,--closed it to Ray alone.

Thus into the short cut swung Ray, walking strong and free, the ache in his throat not so painful
as before. The dog would be on guard, and the boy was empty-handed.

The shadows were deep under the trees, or possibly the dog's hate and rage blinded him to what
the buckskin had seen, or perhaps he was of a different metal. Near the rear of the premises
the big brute came in so great a fury that he broke through the palings. The ensuing collision,--for
the boy stood his ground,--was so violent that Ray went down underneath, and an ecstasy thrilled
him when the flame swished and the smoke stung, and he felt something sink into his shoulder
and a stifle of hot, foamy breath in his face.

It seemed to have been easily and quickly done. True, when he came erect he was weak and tired,
and swayed dizzily, and wondered why. As, without the least exultation, or even triumph, or
even gratification, he looked down at his work, and saw with surprise how deeply the ground
had been torn up, two men with sticks came running out,--evidently there had been some noise,
despite all his care for silence. One was Mr. Elderby, the other his coachman. The gentleman
stood in astonishment as the boy, controlling his heavy breathing, stepped into the moonlight
and calmly faced him.

"Ray Gilbert! What are you doing here, at this time of night?"

"I was walking in the path. Your dog attacked me."

"What did you kill him with?"

"My hands."

Mr. Elderby stood in wonder as he studied the lad.

"I'm thankful to God that you are alive. It's a miracle." He noticed that Ray's clothing was
torn nearly to rags. In compassion he laid a hand on Ray's shoulder, quickly withdrew it, and
examined it in the moonlight. "You are hurt, my son. Come into the house. I'll put you to bed
and send for the doctor and your parents."

"Thank you, sir; I have something to do."

"But you must have attention.--Jake, hitch up the bay to the light buggy,--quick,--and drive
him home."

"No, sir; but I'm much obliged. I have something to do. Good night." The shadows enveloped him.

The short cut led him over a sharp hill and into the road again, and there he sat on the bank
till his strength came back. Then he went on till he arrived at a gate leading into a private
avenue. The ache in his throat was nearly gone. Passing quietly up the driveway and round to
the rear of the house, he came to a window, which was open at the top, and sharply tapped on
the glass.

"Who's that?" came a voice.

"Dress and come out, Andy Carmichael. I'm Ray Gilbert."

The sash was thrown up and the boy glowered in the opening. "Ray Gilbert!--you cowardly, sneaking
puppy! What do you want?"

"I want to see you. Dress and come out. Don't wake anybody."

He spoke quietly, trying to appear his usual self lest this monster, this overshadowing terror
of his life, should see whatever it was that had frightened the horse and slain the dog. This
was the boy who had beaten him so often and with such merciless, sodden, gluttonous enjoyment;
the boy who, when he did not care to give the beatings himself--no provocation was ever needed,--would
stand threateningly by and let the smaller boys, even to the little ones with soft, puny fists,
beat the coward as long as they wished, merely for the love of beating what did not resist;
the boy whose lies had brought undeserved whippings from the teacher; the boy who openly insulted
him whenever he pleased, and, worst of all, had humiliated him before Grace Elderby. It was
the presence of this boy at the party that evening, and the looks that he gave Ray, and the
sly tortures he inflicted, that had sent up the curtain on the night's drama.

In wondering surprise Andy studied the bare-headed, ragged, dirty figure standing in the moonlight;
and as crimson looks a muddy brown in such a light, he mistook the smears on the other's face
and the dark splotches on his clothing. What could the creature want of him at this time of
night and with that extraordinary appearance? Likely Ray had been set upon and was seeking
any refuge. It would be joyous to complete the work that the others had begun. Andy soon emerged
from the house.

"Come this way," said his mysterious visitant, and perplexed Andy followed him to the rear
of the fowl-house, where the light was clear. The flame and smoke of the old grass fire were
strong in the air.

Ray halted, and faced him.

"Take off your coat," he quietly said, removing his own tattered garment.

"What for?" with a slight quaver composed of anger--and something else; for there was a touch
of the uncanny here.

"We are going to fight."

"Fight, eh! What put that into your fool head?" Under the initial impulse from the challenge,
Andy was all heat and eagerness, and he bristled and swelled; but though, in some vital ways,
human sense is less acute than brute sense, Andy did feel something of what the buckskin had
felt, something of what had slain the dog, and his heart thumped with a strange heaviness.
"What do you want to fight for? I'd beat the life out of you."

It failed of the effect intended, and Andy found his head suddenly twisted to one side by a
slap on the cheek. He stepped back, white with fury, tossed his coat aside, and hurled himself
upon the slender figure waiting with such unearthly composure.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dawn was flooding the east, and still the boy lurched and floundered on and on, keeping to
the road that led into the wilderness. Occasionally he would stop for a minute's rest and to
listen for the baying of Frazier's bloodhound; and he wondered, in a purely detached and scientific
way, whether he had sufficient strength and acuteness left for another such grapple. It was
merely an engaging speculation, and was complicated with his determination to perform another
task before his work was done. It would nearly break his heart to be stopped now. Likely the
dog would not attack him, but merely hold him at bay until the pursuers came to his summons;
but if the dog would not attack, then the boy must. Would strength or even life be left for
the last and most important of all the tasks to which the Hand was leading him?--for there
was a good distance yet to be covered, and work to be done at the end of it. He was thankful
that the ache had entirely left his throat and that a strange warmth had kindled in his breast.

Perhaps they had not really meant what they said about setting Frazier's bloodhound to run
him down. The remark had come from the yardman, not Mr. Carmichael himself, who had appeared
too stunned to think of anything but his son. If they had wished to kill the outlaw, or take
him and send him to jail, why had they not seized and bound him instead of staring at him so
queerly, and then the yardman foolishly saying, as Ray staggered away and they picked up the
limp figure, that they would get Frazier's bloodhound and set him on the trail? They were two
strong men against a mere boy, who was so exhausted that only with a mighty effort could he
stand. It was Andy's final despairing cry that had waked them.

Without either triumph or regret the boy struggled on. The broadening of day made him partly
aware of the savage presence that he made and of the likelihood that traffic might open on
the road at any time. Some of his clothing was gone, and he had bound the remaining strips
and rags about him as best he could. He did not know about the aspect of his face and hair,
but he realized that should any one encounter him in the road he might be forced to do something
distasteful, and that the urgent task ahead might be interrupted.

A horseman and two market wagons passed at intervals, but the boy was hidden at the roadside.
So he reeled on and on, and so he came at last to the great pine. There he turned out and crawled
as much as walked through the trees and undergrowth to the summit of a low ridge, where he
felt the sunshine fall on his half-naked back. It was so luxurious that he paused in the full
glare of it, and slowly turned, as one very cold before a warming fire, and reveled in it.
With every moment he felt it pouring into him, tingling softly as it ran. It was odd with what
cheerful industry it hunted out the coldest places in him and kindled snug little fires under
them. Most of all, it gave attention to the warm place that had already started in the center,
and that one woke to a wonderful glow. Thus refreshed, he descended the slope on the farther
side and came to a morass threaded by a friendly stream. At the edge of the bog he halted and
looked keenly about. It had been two years since his last visit to this spot, and, though his
memory of the woods was excellent, he now found himself dull and his vision bad. Ordinarily
he would have found at once what he was seeking. Up and down along the margin he stumbled,
straining his dim eyes, crawling sometimes and using groping hands in the search. Surely no
one else could have come upon this remote spot, found the treasure, and taken it away!

At last! It had seemed to him a very long time; but all else was submerged in the joy of the
first triumph, the first elation, that the lad had felt in many, many a day. Every shadow that
had lain on his conscience vanished, every shame that had cursed his years was swept away,
all bitterness took flight, and something fine and sweet raced through him deliciously.

There was no waste of precious time in hunting for something with which to dig. Then, too,
the glorious sun had mounted, and was pouring its flood of light and warmth on his work and
him. Like the tines of a digging-fork, his fingers sank into the ground.

The precious treasure, hugged gently, reverently, with a fierce sense of protection, was balm
to every hurt. With it thus clasped, the boy laboriously made the ascent of the ridge on his
return, and paused on the summit. There was something strange in the distance with which the
descending slope to the road stretched so far, so bewilderingly far. He contemplated it, and
wondered if he could compass it in a lifetime. The impulse to go on--for this last task was
only half done--overcame the check from the illusion, and he started down. His knees developed
a foolish way of suddenly flexing and seating him hard on the ground. At first it was annoying,
but when it happened the second time the absurdity of it, and the ridiculous suddenness of
the surprise that it caused, made the boy laugh aloud. It astonished him to hear himself laugh,
for that was very unusual, and he wondered. But he rose, staggered on, and found himself chuckling
inside,--a most astonishing thing! He could not imagine why he was doing it. When he dropped
the third time his voice rang in so loud and merry a laugh that two blue jays came and scolded
him terrifically, and he laughed at them till his tears ran. He was so absurdly happy that
he feared he would hug his treasure too hard.

If only his mother were with him, that she might see how funny it all was, and laugh and be
happy with him, and then walk with him hand in hand through the beautiful woods, while he showed
her all the wonderful things that he knew! But no; his sisters and his father must be with
them,--and Grace, and Andy, too, and the teacher and dear old grandmother. What a glorious
time they would have!

The boy started, for a sweet, coaxing smother had suddenly fallen on him. He fought it away
and rose with great difficulty and in some alarm lest he should not reach the road. On he lurched,
clinging to the bushes as he swayed, trying not to laugh, for he had an idea that he was very
crass and silly. He saw the road, only a rod away, and suddenly reflected that he was not presentable.
Though staying till night would delay the completion of his task, there was no help for it,
and he was content, and laughed because he was. And he knew that he really needed rest; for
suppose his legs should practise those grotesque eccentricities in the road, and somebody should
see! He sat down, carefully guarding his treasure, to wait in happy patience. He would not
sleep, and so lose something of his conscious peace, something of thinking about what was going
to happen at the end. No, he must not sleep.

The frantically joyous barking of a dog standing over him--not at all like the deep baying
of Frazier's bloodhound,--woke the boy, and he tried to raise his head, but it fell back like
lead. He laughed drowsily in quiet happiness, as he feebly patted the devoted head.

"Dear old Cap," he said. "You came, didn't you?"

Messengers from Elderby's and Carmichael's had brought strange news to the boy's parents. In
alarm they had started out in the surrey, taking Cap, in the sure faith that he would find
their son. They had seen that Andy was recovering,--he had been much more frightened than hurt.
It was they whose crashing through the bushes the boy heard after Cap had announced his find.
They halted and paled when they saw the torn, bruised, helpless figure smiling at them from
the ground, and so full of loving gladness merely to see them that there was no room for surprise
at their being there. The mother was quicker than the father; she ran forward and fell on her
knees beside her son.

"My boy!" she cried in a choke.

He took her hand and smiled into her face. In all her life she had never seen a smile so sweet,
so happy. With his free hand he lifted his treasure.

"Mother," radiantly, "here it is!"

"What, my poor dear?"

"Don't you remember? I told you two years ago that I'd found it, and you said you'd be very
glad if I'd bring it to you when I came this way again."

She opened the parcel, wrapped with so fond care in leaves and damp moss.

"Why, it's the rare and beautiful fern, and you were taking it to me! Bless your dear heart!"
and, much to his surprise, she began to cry.

A LOST STORY

BY

FRANK NORRIS

Reprinted from The Century Magazine of July, 1903 by permission

AT NINE o'clock that morning Rosella arrived in her little office on the third floor of the
great publishing house of Conant & Company, and putting up her veil without removing her hat,
addressed herself to her day's work.

She went through her meager and unimportant mail, wrote a few replies, and then turned to the
pile of volunteer manuscripts which it was her duty to read and report upon.

For Rosella was Conant's "reader," and so well was she acquainted with the needs of the house,
so thorough was she in her work, and so great was the reliance upon her judgment, that she
was the only one employed. Manuscripts that she "passed up" went direct to Conant himself,
while the great army of the "declined" had no second chance. For the "unavailables" her word
was final.

From the first--which was when her initial literary venture, a little book of short tales of
Sicily and the Sicilians, was published by the house--her relations with the Conants had been
intimate. Conant believed in her, and for the sake of the time when her books could be considered
safe investments, was willing to lose a few dollars during the time of her apprenticeship.
For the tales had enjoyed only a fleeting succès d'estime. Her style was, like her temperament,
delicately constructed and of extreme refinement, not the style to appeal to the masses. It
was "searched," a little précieuse, and the tales themselves were diaphanous enough, polished
little contes, the points subtle, the action turning upon minute psychological distinctions.

Yet she had worked desperately hard upon their composition. She was of those very few who sincerely
cannot write unless the mood be propitious; and her state of mind, the condition of her emotions,
was very apt to influence her work for good or ill, as the case might be.

But a succès d'estime fills no purses, and favorable reviews in the literary periodicals are
not "negotiable paper." Rosella could not yet live wholly by her pen, and thought herself fortunate
when the house offered her the position of reader.

This arrival of hers was no doubt to be hastened, if not actually assured, by the publication
of her first novel, "Patroclus," upon which she was at this time at work. The evening before,
she had read the draft of the story to Trevor, and even now, as she cut the string of the first
manuscript of the pile, she was thinking over what Trevor had said of it, and smiling as she
thought.

It was through Conant that Rosella had met the great novelist and critic, and it was because
of Conant that Trevor had read Rosella's first little book. He had taken an interest at once,
and had found occasion to say to her that she had it in her to make a niche for herself in
American letters.

He was a man old enough to be her grandfather, and Rosella often came to see him in his study,
to advise with him as to doubtful points in her stories or as to ideas for those as yet unwritten.
To her his opinion was absolutely final. This old gentleman, this elderly man of letters, who
had seen the rise and fall of a dozen schools, was above the influence of fads, and he whose
books were among the classics even before his death was infallible in his judgments of the
work of the younger writers. All the stages of their evolution were known to him--all their
mistakes, all their successes. He understood; and a story by one of them, a poem, a novel,
that bore the stamp of his approval, was "sterling." Work that he declared a failure was such
in very earnest, and might as well be consigned as speedily as possible to the grate or the
waste-basket.

When, therefore, he had permitted himself to be even enthusiastic over "Patroclus," Rosella
had been elated beyond the power of expression, and had returned home with blazing cheeks and
shining eyes, to lie awake half the night thinking of her story, planning, perfecting, considering
and reconsidering.

Like her short stories, the tale was of extreme delicacy in both sentiment and design. It was
a little fanciful, a little elaborate, but of an ephemeral poetry. It was all "atmosphere,"
and its success depended upon the minutest precision of phrasing and the nicest harmony between
idea and word. There was much in mere effect of words; and more important than mere plot was
the feeling produced by the balancing of phrases and the cadence of sentence and paragraph.

Only a young woman of Rosella's complexity, of her extreme sensitiveness, could have conceived
"Patroclus," nor could she herself hope to complete it successfully at any other period of
her life. Any earlier she would have been too immature to adapt herself to its demands; any
later she would have lost the spontaneity, the jeunesse, and the freshness which were to contribute
to its greatest charm.

The tale itself was simple. Instead of a plot, a complication, it built itself around a central
idea, and it was the originality of this idea, this motif, that had impressed Trevor so strongly.
Indeed, Rosella's draft could convey no more than that. Her treatment was all to follow. But
here she was sure of herself. The style would come naturally as she worked.

She was ambitious, and in her craving to succeed, to be recognized and accepted, was all that
passionate eagerness that only the artist knows. So far success had been denied her; but now
at last she seemed to see light. Her "Patroclus" would make her claims good. Everything depended
upon that.

She had thought over this whole situation while she removed the wrappings from the first manuscript
of the pile upon her desk. Even then her fingers itched for the pen, and the sentences and
phrases of the opening defined themselves clearly in her mind. But that was not to be the immediate
work. The unlovely bread-and-butter business pressed upon her. With a long breath she put the
vision from her and turned her attention to the task at hand.

After her custom, she went through the pile, glancing at the titles and first lines of each
manuscript, and putting it aside in the desk corner to be considered in detail later on.

She almost knew in advance that of the thirty-odd volunteers of that day's batch not one would
prove available. The manuscripts were tagged and numbered in the business office before they
came to her, and the number of the first she picked up that morning was 1120, and this since
the first of the year. Of the eleven hundred she had accepted only three. Of these three, two
had failed entirely after publication; the third had barely paid expenses. What a record! How
hopeless it seemed! Yet the strugglers persisted. Did it not seem as if No. 1120, Mrs. Allen
Bowen of Bentonville, South Dakota--did it not seem as if she could know that the great American
public has no interest in, no use for, "Thoughts on the Higher Life," a series of articles
written for the county paper--foolish little articles revamped from Ruskin and Matthew Arnold?

And 1121--what was this? The initial lines ran: "'Oh, damn everything!' exclaimed Percival
Holcombe, as he dropped languidly into a deep-seated leather chair by the club window which
commanded a view of the noisy street crowded with fashion and frivolity, wherein the afternoon's
sun, freed from its enthralling mists, which all day long had jealously obscured his beams,
was gloating o'er the panels of the carriages of noblemen who were returning from race-track
and park, and the towhead of the little sweeper who plied his humble trade which earned his
scanty supper that he ate miles away from that gay quarter wherein Percival Holcombe, who----"
Rosella paused for sheer breath. This sort did not need to be read. It was declined already.
She picked up the next. It was in an underwear-box of green pasteboard.

"The staid old town of Salem," it read, "was all astir one bright and sunny morning in the
year 1604." Rosella groaned. "Another!" she said. "Now," she continued, speaking to herself
and shutting her eyes--"now about the next page the 'portly burgess' will address the heroine
as 'Mistress,' and will say, 'An' whither away so early?'" She turned over to verify. She was
wrong. The portly burgess had said: "Good morrow, Mistress Priscilla. An' where away so gaily
bedizened?" She sighed as she put the manuscript away. "Why, and, oh, why will they do it!"
she murmured.

The next one, 1123, was a story "Compiled from the Memoirs of One Perkin Althorpe, Esq., Sometime
Field-Coronet in His Majesty's Troop of Horse," and was sown thick with objurgation--"Ods-wounds!"
"Body o' me!" "A murrain on thee!" "By my halidom!" and all the rest of the sweepings and tailings
of Scott and the third-rate romanticists.

"Declined," said Rosella, firmly, tossing it aside. She turned to 1124:

"About three o'clock of a roseate day in early spring two fashionables of the softer sex, elegantly
arrayed, might have been observed sauntering languidly down Fifth Avenue.

"'Are you going to Mrs. Van Billion's musicale tonight?' inquired the older of the two, a tall
and striking demi-brunette, turning to her companion.

"'No, indeed,' replied the person thus addressed, a blonde of exquisite coloring. 'No, indeed.
The only music one hears there is the chink of silver dollars. Ha! ha! ha! ha!'"

Rosella winced as if in actual physical anguish. "And the author calls it a 'social satire'!"
she exclaimed. "How can she! How can she!"

She turned to the next. It was written in script that was a model of neatness, margined, correctly
punctuated, and addressed, "Harold Vickers," with the town and State. Its title was "The Last
Dryad," and the poetry of the phrase stuck in her mind. She read the first lines, then the
first page, then two.

"Come," said Rosella, "there is something in this." At once she was in a little valley in Boeotia
in the Arcadian day. It was evening. There was no wind. Somewhere a temple, opalescent in the
sunset, suggested rather than defined itself. A landscape developed such as Turner in a quiet
mood might have evolved, and with it a feeling of fantasy, of remoteness, of pure, true classicism.
A note of pipes was in the air, sheep bleated, and Daphne, knee-deep in the grass, surging
an answer to the pipes, went down to meet her shepherd.

Rosella breathed a great sigh of relief. Here at last was a possibility--a new writer with
a new, sane view of his world and his work. A new poet, in fine. She consulted the name and
address given--Harold Vickers, Ash Fork, Arizona. There was something in that Harold; perhaps
education and good people. But the Vickers told her nothing. And where was Ash Fork, Arizona;
and why and how had "The Last Dryad" been written there, of all places the green world round?
How came the inspiration for that classic paysage, such as Ingres would have loved, from the
sage-brush, and cactus? "Well," she told herself, "Moore wrote 'Lalla Rookh' in a back room
in London, among the chimney-pots and soot. Maybe the proportion is inverse. But, Mr. Harold
Vickers of Ash Fork, Arizona, your little book is, to say the least, well worth its ink."

She went through the other manuscripts as quickly as was consistent with fairness, and declined
them all. Then settling herself comfortably in her chair, she plunged, with the delight of
an explorer venturing upon new ground, into the pages of "The Last Dryad."

       *       *       *       *       *

Four hours later she came, as it were, to herself, to find that she sat lax in her place, with
open, upturned palms, and eyes vacantly fixed upon the opposite wall. "The Last Dryad," read
to the final word, was tumbled in a heap upon the floor. It was past her luncheon hour. Her
cheeks flamed; her hands were cold and moist; and her heart beat thick and slow, clogged, as
it were, by its own heaviness.

But the lapse of time was naught to her, nor the fever that throbbed in her head. Her world,
like a temple of glass, had come down dashing about her. The future, which had beckoned her
onward,--a fairy in the path wherein her feet were set,--was gone, and at the goal of her ambition
and striving she saw suddenly a stranger stand, plucking down the golden apples that she so
long and passionately had desired.

For "The Last Dryad" was her own, her very, very own and cherished "Patroclus."

That the other author had taken the story from a different view-point, that his treatment varied,
that the approach was his own, that the wording was his own, produced not the least change
upon the final result. The idea, the motif, was identical in each; identical in every particular,
identical in effect, in suggestion. The two tales were one. That was the fact, the unshakable
fact, the block of granite that a malicious fortune had flung athwart her little pavilion of glass.

At first she jumped to the conclusion of chicanery. At first there seemed no other explanation.
"He stole it," she cried, rousing vehemently from her inertia--"mine--mine. He stole my story."

But common sense prevailed in the end. No, there was no possible chance for theft. She had
not spoken of "Patroclus" to any one but Trevor. Her manuscript draft had not once left her
hands. No; it was a coincidence, nothing more--one of those fateful coincidences with which
the scientific and literary worlds are crowded. And he, this unknown Vickers, this haphazard
genius of Ash Fork, Arizona, had the prior claim. Her "Patroclus" must remain unwritten. The
sob caught and clutched at her throat at last.

"Oh," she cried in a half-whisper--"oh, my chance, my hopes, my foolish little hopes! And now
this! To have it all come to nothing--when I was so proud, so buoyant--and Mr. Trevor and all!
Oh, could anything be more cruel!"

And then, of all moments, ex machina, Harold Vickers's card was handed in.

She stared at it an instant, through tears, amazed and incredulous. Surely some one was playing
a monstrous joke upon her today. Soon she would come upon the strings and false bottoms and
wigs and masks of the game. But the office boy's contemplation of her distress was real. Something
must be done. The whole machine of things could not indefinitely hang thus suspended, inert,
waiting her pleasure.

"Yes," she exclaimed all at once. "Very well; show him in;" and she had no more than gathered
up the manuscript of "The Last Dryad" from the floor when its author entered the room.

He was very young,--certainly not more than twenty-three,--tall, rather poorly dressed, an
invalid, beyond doubt, and the cough and the flush on the high cheek-bone spelled the name
of the disease. The pepper-and-salt suit, the shoe-string cravat, and the broad felt hat were
frankly Arizona. And he was diffident, constrained, sitting uncomfortably on the chair as a
mark of respect, smiling continually, and, as he talked, throwing in her name at almost every
phrase:

"No, Miss. Beltis; yes, Miss. Beltis; quite right, Miss. Beltis."

His embarrassment helped her to her own composure, and by the time she came to question him
as to his book and the reasons that brought him from Ash Fork to New York, she had herself in hand.

"I have received an unimportant government appointment in the Fisheries Department," he explained,
"and as I was in New York for the week I thought I might--not that I wished to seem to hurry
you, Miss. Beltis--but I thought I might ask if you had come to--to my little book yet."

In five minutes of time Rosella knew just where Harold Vickers was to be placed, to what type
he belonged. He was the young man of great talent who, so far from being discovered by the
outside world, had not even discovered himself. He would be in two minds as yet about his calling
in life, whether it was to be the hatching of fish or the writing of "Last Dryads." No one
had yet taken him in hand, had so much as spoken a word to him. If she told him now that his
book was a ridiculous failure, he would no doubt say--and believe--that she was quite right,
that he had felt as much himself. If she told him his book was a little masterpiece, he would
be just as certain to tell himself, and with equal sincerity, that he had known it from the first.

He had offered his manuscript nowhere else as yet. He was as new as an overnight daisy, and
as destructible in Rosella's hands.

"Yes," she said at length, "I have read your manuscript." She paused a moment, then: "But I
am not quite ready to pass upon it yet."

He was voluble in his protestations.

"Oh, that is all right," she interrupted. "I can come to the second reading in a day or two.
I could send you word by the end of the week."

"Thank you, Miss. Beltis." He paused awkwardly, smiling in deprecatory fashion. "Do you--from
what you have seen of it--read of it--do you--how does it strike you? As good enough to publish--or
fit for the waste-basket?"

Ah, why had this situation leaped upon her thus unawares, and all unprepared! Why had she not
been allowed time, opportunity, to fortify herself!

What she said now would mean so much. Best err, then, on the safe side; and which side was
that? Her words seemed to come of themselves, and she almost physically felt herself withdraw
from the responsibility of what this other material Rosella Beltis was saying.

"I don't know," said the other Rosella. "I should not care to say--so soon. You see--there
are so many manuscripts. I generally trust to the first impression on the second reading."
She did not even hear his answer, but she said, when he had done speaking, that even in case
of an unfavorable report there were, of course, other publishers.

But he answered that the judgment of such a house as the Conants would suffice for him. Somehow
he could not peddle his story about New York. If the Conants would not take his work, nobody would.

And that was the last remark of importance he made. During the few remaining moments of his
visit they spoke of unessentials, and before she was aware, he had gone away, leaving with
her a memorandum of his address at the time.

       *       *       *       *       *

She did not sleep that night. When she left the office she brought "The Last Dryad" home with
her, and till far into the night she read it and re-read it, comparing it and contrasting it
with "Patroclus," searching diligently if perhaps there were not some minute loophole of evasion,
some devious passage through which she might escape. But amid the shattered panes of her glass
pavilion the block of stone persisted, inert, immovable. The stone could not be raised, the
little edifice could not be rebuilt.

Then at last, inevitably, the temptation came--came and grew and shut about her and gripped
her close. She began to temporize, to advance excuses. Was not her story the better one? Granted
that the idea was the same, was not the treatment, the presentation, more effective? Should
not the fittest survive? Was it not right that the public should have the better version? Suppose
"Patroclus" had been written by a third person, and she had been called upon to choose between
it and "The Last Dryad," would she not have taken "Patroclus" and rejected the other? Ah, but
"Patroclus" was not yet written! Well, that was true. But the draft of it was; the idea of
it had been conceived eight months ago. Perhaps she had thought of her story before Vickers
had thought of his. Perhaps? No; it was very probable; there was no doubt of it, in fact. That
was the important thing: the conception of the idea, not the execution. And if this was true,
her claim was prior.

But what would Conant say of such reasoning, and Trevor--would they approve? Would they agree?

"Yes, they would," she cried the instant the thought occurred to her. "Yes, they would, they
would, they would; I know they would. I am sure of it; sure of it."

But she knew they would not. The idea of right persisted and persisted. Rosella was on the
rack, and slowly, inevitably, resistlessly the temptation grew and gathered, and snared her
feet and her hands, and, fold on fold, lapped around her like a veil.

A great and feminine desire to shift the responsibility began to possess her mind.

"I cannot help it," she cried. "I am not to blame. It is all very well to preach, but how would--any
one do in my case? It is not my fault."

And all at once, without knowing how or why, she found that she had written, sealed, stamped,
and addressed a note to Harold Vickers declining his story.

But this was a long way from actually rejecting "The Last Dryad"--rejecting it in favor of
"Patroclus." She had only written the note, so she told herself, just to see how the words
would look. It was merely an impulse; would come to nothing, of course. Let us put it aside,
that note, and seriously consider this trying situation.

Somehow it seemed less trying now; somehow the fact of her distress seemed less poignant. There
was a way out of it--stop. No; do not look at the note there on the table. There was a way
out, no doubt, but not that one; no, of course not that one. Rosella laughed a little. How
easily some one else, less scrupulous, would solve this problem! Well, she could solve it,
too, and keep her scruples as well; but not tonight. Now she was worn out. Tomorrow it would
look different to her.

She went to bed and tossed wide-eyed and wakeful till morning, then rose, and after breakfast
prepared to go to the office as usual. The manuscript of "The Last Dryad" lay on her table,
and while she was wrapping it up her eye fell upon the note to Harold Vickers.

"Why," she murmured, with a little grimace of astonishment--"why, how is this? I thought I
burned that last night. How could I have forgotten!"

She could have burned it then. The fire was crackling in the grate; she had but to toss it
in. But she preferred to delay.

"I will drop it in some ash-can or down some sewer on the way to the office," she said to herself.
She slipped it into her muff and hurried away. But on the way to the cable-car no ash-can presented
itself. True, she discovered the opening of a sewer on the corner where she took her car. But
a milkman and a police officer stood near at hand in conversation, occasionally glancing at
her, and no doubt they would have thought it strange to see this well-dressed young woman furtively
dropping a sealed letter into a sewer-vent.

She held it awkwardly in her hand all of her way down-town, and still carried it there when
she had descended from her car and took her way up the cross-street toward Conant's.

She suddenly remembered that she had other letters to mail that morning. For two days the weekly
epistles that she wrote home to her mother and younger sister had been overlooked in her pocket.
She found a mail-box on the corner by the Conant building and crossed over to it, holding her
mother's and sister's letters in one hand and the note to Vickers in the other.

Carefully scanning the addresses, to make sure she did not confuse the letters, she dropped
in her home correspondence, then stood there a moment irresolute.

Irresolute as to what, she could not say. Her decision had been taken in the matter of "The
Last Dryad." She would accept it, as it deserved. Whether she was still to write "Patroclus"
was a matter to be considered later. Well, she was glad she had settled it all. If she had
not come to this conclusion she might have been, at that very instant, dropping the letter
to Harold Vickers into the box. She would have stood, thus, facing the box, have raised the
cast-iron flap,--this with one hand,--and with the other have thrust the note into the slide--thus.

Her fingers closed hard upon the letter at the very last instant--ah, not too late. But suppose
she had, but for one second, opened her thumb and forefinger and--what? What would come of it?

And there, with the letter yet on the edge of the drop she called up again the entire situation,
the identity of the stories, the jeopardizing--no, the wrecking--of her future career by this
chance-thrown barrier in the way. Why hesitate, why procrastinate? Her thoughts came to her
in a whirl. If she acted quickly now,--took the leap with shut eyes, reckless of result,--she
could truly be sorry then, truly acknowledge what was right, believe that Vickers had the prior
claim without the hard necessity of acting up to her convictions. At least, this harrowing
indecision would be over with.

"Indecision?" What was this she was saying? Had she not this moment told herself that she was
resolved--resolved to accept "The Last Dryad"? Resolved to accept it? Was that true? Had she
done so? Had she not made up her mind long ago to decline it--decline it with full knowledge
that its author would destroy it once the manuscript should be returned?

These thoughts had whisked through her mind with immeasurable rapidity. The letter still rested
half in, half out of the drop. She still held it there.

By now Rosella knew if she let it fall she would do so deliberately, with full knowledge of
what she was about. She could not afterward excuse herself by saying that she had been confused,
excited, acting upon an unreasoned impulse. No; it would be deliberate, deliberate, deliberate.
She would have to live up to that decision, whatever it was, for many months to come, perhaps
for years. Perhaps,--who could say?--perhaps it might affect her character permanently. In
a crisis little forces are important, disproportionately so. And then it was, and thus it was,
that Rosella took her resolve. She raised the iron flap once more, and saying aloud and with
a ring of defiance in her voice: "Deliberately, deliberately; I don't care," loosed her hold
upon the letter. She heard it fall with a soft rustling impact upon the accumulated mail-matter
in the bottom of the box.

A week later she received her letter back with a stamped legend across its face informing her
with dreadful terseness that the party to whom the letter was addressed was deceased. She divined
a blunder, but for all that, and with conflicting emotions, sought confirmation in the daily
press. There, at the very end of the column, stood the notice:

     VICKERS. At New York, on Sunday, November 12, Harold Anderson
     Vickers, in the twenty-third year of his age. Arizona papers please
     copy. Notice of funeral hereafter.

Three days later she began to write "Patroclus."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rosella stood upon the door-step of Trevor's house, closing her umbrella and shaking the water
from the folds of her mackintosh. It was between eight and nine in the evening, and since morning
a fine rain had fallen steadily. But no stress of weather could have kept Rosella at home that
evening. A week previous she had sent to Trevor the type-written copy of the completed "Patroclus,"
and tonight she was to call for the manuscript and listen to his suggestions and advice.

She had triumphed in the end--triumphed over what, she had not always cared to inquire. But
once the pen in her hand, once "Patroclus" begun, and the absorption of her mind, her imagination,
her every faculty, in the composition of the story, had not permitted her to think of or to
remember anything else.

And she saw that her work was good. She had tested it by every method, held it up to her judgment
in all positions and from all sides, and in her mind, so far as she could see, and she was
a harsh critic for her own work, it stood the tests. Not the least of her joys was the pleasure
that she knew Trevor would take in her success. She could foresee just the expression of his
face when he would speak, could forecast just the tones of the voice, the twinkle of the kindly
eyes behind the glasses.

When she entered the study, she found Trevor himself, as she had expected, waiting for her
in slippers and worn velvet jacket, pipe in hand, and silk skullcap awry upon the silver-white
hair. He extended an inky hand, and still holding it and talking, led her to an easy-chair
near the hearth.

Even through the perturbation of her mind Rosella could not but wonder--for the hundredth time--at
the apparent discrepancy between the great novelist and the nature of his books. These latter
were, each and all of them, wonders of artistic composition, compared with the hordes of latter-day
pictures. They were the aristocrats of their kind, full of reserved force, unimpeachable in
dignity, stately even, at times veritably austere.

And Trevor himself was a short, rotund man, rubicund as to face, bourgeois as to clothes and
surroundings (the bisque statuette of a fisher-boy obtruded the vulgarity of its gilding and
tinting from the mantelpiece), jovial in manner, indulging even in slang. One might easily
have set him down as a retired groceryman--wholesale perhaps, but none the less a groceryman.
Yet touch him upon the subject of his profession, and the bonhomie lapsed away from him at
once. Then he became serious. Literature was not a thing to be trifled with.

Thus it was tonight. For five minutes Trevor filled the room with the roaring of his own laughter
and the echoes of his own vociferous voice. He was telling a story--a funny story, about what
Rosella, with her thoughts on "Patroclus," could not for the life of her have said, and she
must needs listen in patience and with perfunctory merriment while the narrative was conducted
to its close with all the accompaniment of stamped feet and slapped knees.

"'Why, becoth, mithtah,' said that nigger. 'Dat dawg ain' good fo' nothin' ailse; so I jes
rickon he 'th boun' to be a coon dawg;'" and the author of "Snow in April" pounded the arm
of his chair and roared till the gas-fixtures vibrated.

Then at last, taking advantage of a lull in the talk, Rosella, unable to contain her patience
longer, found breath to remark:

"And 'Patroclus'--my--my little book?"

"Ah--hum, yes. 'Patroclus,' your story. I've read it."

At once another man was before her, or rather the writer--the novelist--in the man. Something
of the dignity of his literary style immediately seemed to invest him with a new character.
He fell quiet, grave, not a little abstracted, and Rosella felt her heart sink. Her little
book (never had it seemed so insignificant, so presumptuous as now) had been on trial before
a relentless tribunal, had indeed undergone the ordeal of fire. But the verdict, the verdict!
Quietly, but with cold hands clasped tight together, she listened while the greatest novelist
of America passed judgment upon her effort.

"Yes; I've read it," continued Trevor. "Read it carefully--carefully. You have worked hard
upon it. I can see that. You have put your whole soul into it, put all of yourself into it.
The narrative is all there, and I have nothing but good words to say to you about the construction,
the mere mechanics of it. But----"

Would he never go on? What was this? What did that "But" mean? What else but disaster could
it mean? Rosella shut her teeth.

