No, Goethe is not the poet of Pantheism; he is a polytheist in his method as an artist; the
pagan poet of modern times. His world is, above all things, the world of forms: a multiplied
Olympus. The Mosaic heaven and the Christian are veiled to him. Like the pagans, he parcels
out Nature into fragments, and makes of each a divinity; like them, he worships the sensuous
rather than the ideal; he looks, touches, and listens far more than he feels. And what care
and labor are bestowed upon the plastic portion of his art! what importance is given--I will
not say to the objects themselves--but to the external representation of objects! Has he not
somewhere said that "the beautiful is the result of happy position?"[Footnote: In the Kunst
und Alterthum, I think.]

Under this definition is concealed an entire system of poetic materialism, substituted for
the worship of the ideal; involving a whole series of consequences, the logical result of which
was to lead Goethe to indifference, that moral suicide of some of the noblest energies of genius.
The absolute concentration of every faculty of observation on each of the objects to be represented,
without relation to the ensemble; the entire avoidance of every influence likely to modify
the view taken of that object, became in his hands one of the most effective means of art.
The poet, in his eyes, was neither the rushing stream a hundred times broken on its course,
that it may carry fertility to the surrounding country; nor the brilliant flame, consuming
itself in the light it sheds around while ascending to heaven; but rather the placid lake,
reflecting alike the tranquil landscape and the thunder-cloud; its own surface the while unruffled
even by the lightest breeze. A serene and passive calm with the absolute clearness and distinctness
of successive impressions, in each of which he was for the time wholly absorbed, are the peculiar
characteristics of Goethe. "I allow the objects I desire to comprehend, to act tranquilly upon
me," said he; "I then observe the impression I have received from them, and I endeavor to render
it faithfully." Goethe has here portrayed his every feature to perfection. He was in life such
as Madame Von Arnim proposed to represent him after death; a venerable old man, with a serene,
almost radiant countenance; clothed in an antique robe, holding a lyre resting on his knees,
and listening to the harmonies drawn from it either by the hand of a genius, or the breath
of the winds. The last chords wafted his soul to the East; to the land of inactive contemplation.
It was time: Europe had become too agitated for him.

Such were Byron and Goethe in their general characteristics; both great poets; very different,
and yet, complete as is the contrast between them, and widely apart as are the paths they pursue,
arriving at the same point. Life and death, character and poetry, everything is unlike in the
two, and yet the one is the complement of the other. Both are the children of fatality--for
it is especially at the close of epochs that the providential law which directs the generations
assumes towards individuals the semblance of fatality--and compelled by it unconsciously to
work out a great mission. Goethe contemplates the world in parts, and delivers the impressions
they make upon him, one by one, as occasion presents them. Byron looks upon the world from
a single comprehensive point of view; from the height of which he modifies in his own soul
the impressions produced by external objects, as they pass before him. Goethe successively
absorbs his own individuality in each of the objects he reproduces. Byron stamps every object
he portrays with his own individuality. To Goethe, nature is the symphony; to Byron it is the
prelude. She furnishes to the one the entire subject; to the other the occasion only of his
verse. The one executes her harmonies; the other composes on the theme she has suggested. Goethe
better exgresses lives; Byron life. The one is most vast; the other more deep. The first searches
everywhere for the beautiful, and loves, above all things, harmony and repose; the other seeks
the sublime, and adores action and force. Characters, such as Coriolanus or Luther, disturbed
Goethe. I know not if, in his numerous pieces of criticism, he has ever spoken of Dante; but
assuredly he must have shared the antipathy felt for him by Sir Walter Scott; and although
he would undoubtedly have sufficiently respected his genius to admit him into his Pantheon,
yet he would certainly have drawn a veil between his mental eye and the grand but sombre figure
of the exiled seer, who dreamed of the future empire of the world for his country, and of the
world's harmonious development under her guidance. Byron loved and drew inspiration from Dante.
He also loved Washington and Franklin, and followed, with all the sympathies of a soul athirst
for action, the meteor-like career of the greatest genius of action our age has produced, Napoleon;
feeling indignant-- perhaps mistakenly--that he did not die in the struggle.

When travelling in that second fatherland of all poetic souls-- Italy--the poets still pursued
divergent routes; the one experienced sensations; the other emotions; the one occupied himself
especially with nature; the other with the greatness dead, the living wrongs, the human memories.
[Footnote: The contrast between the two poets is nowhere more strikingly displayed than by
the manner in which they were affected by the sight of Rome. In Goethe's Elegies and in his
Travels in Italy we find the impressions of the artist only. He did not understand Rome. The
eternal synthesis that, from the heights of the Capitol and St. Peter, is gradually unfolded
in ever-widening circles, embracing first a nation and then Europe, as it will ultimately embrace
humanity, remained unrevealed to him; he saw only the inner circle of paganism; the least prolific,
as well as least indigenous. One might fancy that he caught a glimpse of it for an instant,
when he wrote: "History is read here far otherwise than in any other spot in the universe;
elsewhere we read it from without to within; here one seems to read it from within to without;
"but if so, he soon lost sight of it again, and became absorbed in external nature." Whether
we halt or advance, we discover a landscape ever renewing itself in a thousand fashions. We
have palaces and ruins; gardens and solitudes: the horizon lengthens in the distance, or suddenly
contracts; huts and stables, columns and triumphal arches, all lie pell-mell, and often so
close that we might find room for all on the same sheet of paper."

When at last he came to a recollection of himself and his position, it was with a hope for
the world (stanza 98) and a pardon for his enemies. From the fourth canto of Childe Harold,
the daughter of Byron might learn more of the true spirit of her father than from all the reports
she may have heard, and all the many volumes that have been written upon him.]

And yet, notwithstanding all the contrasts, which I have only hinted at, but which might be
far more elaborately displayed by extracts from their works; they arrived--Goethe, the poet
of individuality in its objective life--at the egotism of indifference; Byron--the poet of
individuality an its subjective life--at the egotism (I say it with regret, but it, too, is
egotism) of despair: a double sentence upon the epoch which it was their mission to represent
and to close!

Both of them--I am not speaking of their purely literary merits, incontestable and universally
acknowledged--the one by the spirit of resistance that breathes through all his creations;
the other by the spirit of sceptical irony that pervades his works, and by the independent
sovereignty attributed to art over all social relations- -greatly aided the cause of intellectual
emancipation, and awakened in men's minds the sentiment of liberty. Both of them--the one,
directly, by the implacable war he waged against the vices and absurdities of the privileged
classes, and indirectly, by investing his heroes with all the most brilliant qualities of the
despot, and then dashing them to pieces as if in anger;--the other, by the poetic rehabilitation
of forms the most modest, and objects the most insignificant, as well as by the importance
attributed to details-- combated aristocratic prejudices, and developed in men's minds the
sentiment of equality. And having by their artistic excellence exhausted both forms of the
poetry of individuality, they have completed the cycle cf its poets; thereby reducing all followers
in the same sphere to the subaltern position of imitators, and creating the necessity of a
new order of poetry; teaching us to recognize a want where before we felt only a desire. Together
they have laid an era in the tomb; covering it with a pall that none may lift; and, as if to
proclaim its death to the young generation, the poetry of Goethe has written its history, while
that of Byron has graven its epitaph.

And now farewell to Goethe; farewell to Byron! farewell to the sorrows that crush but sanctify
not--to the poetic flame that illumines but warms not--to the ironical philosophy that dissects
without reconstructing--to all poetry which, in an age where there is so much to do, teaches
us inactive contemplation; or which, in a world where there is so much need of devotedness,
would instil despair. Farewell to all types of power without an aim; to all personifications
of the solitary individuality which seeks an aim to find it not, and knows not how to apply
the life stirring within it; to all egotistic joys and griefs:

    "Bastards of the soul;
     O'erweening slips of idleness: weeds--no more-
     Self-springing here and there from the rank soil;
     O'erflowings of the lust of that same mind
     Whose proper issue and determinate end,
     When wedded to the love of things divine,
     Is peace, complacency, and happiness."

Farewell, a long farewell to the past! The dawn of the future is announced to such as can read
its signs, and we owe ourselves wholly to it.

The duality of the Middle Ages, after having struggled for centuries under the banners of emperor
and pope; after having left its trace and borne its fruit in every branch of intellectual development;
has reascended to heaven--its mission accomplished--in the twin flames of poesy called Goethe
and Byron. Two hitherto distinct formulae of life became incarnate in these two men. Byron
is isolated man, representing only the internal aspect of life; Goethe isolated man, representing
only the external.

Higher than these two incomplete existences; at the point of intersection between the two aspirations
towards a heaven they were unable to reach, will be revealed the poetry of the future; of humanity;
potent in new harmony, unity, and life.

But because, in our own day, we are beginning, though vaguely, to foresee this new social poetry,
which will soothe the suffering soul by teaching it to rise towards God through humanity; because
we now stand on the threshold of a new epoch, which, but for them, we should not have reached;
shall we decry those who were unable to do more for us than cast their giant forms into the
gulf that held us all doubting and dismayed on the other side? From the earliest times has
genius been made the scapegoat of the generations. Society has never lacked men who have contented
themselves with reproaching the Chattertons of their day with not being patterns of self-devotion,
instead of physical or moral suicides; without ever asking themselves whether they had, during
their lifetime, endeavored to place aught within the reach of such but doubt and destitution.
I feel the necessity of protesting earnestly against the reaction set on foot by certain thinkers
against the mighty-souled, which serves as a cloak for the cavilling spirit of mediocrity.
There is something hard, repulsive, and ungrateful in the destructive instinct which so often
forgets what has been done by the great men who preceded us, to demand of them merely an account
of what more might have been done. Is the pillow of scepticism so soft to genius as to justify
the conclusion that it is from egotism only that at times it rests its fevered brow thereon?
Are we so free from the evil reflected in their verse as to have a right to condemn their memory?
That evil was not introduced into the world by them. They saw it, felt it, respired it; it
was around, about, on every side of them, and they were its greatest victims. How could they
avoid reproducing it in their works? It is not by deposing Goethe or Byron that we shall destroy
either sceptical or anarchical indifference amongst us. It is by becoming believers and organizers
ourselves. If we are such, we need fear nothing. As is the public, so will be the poet. If
we revere enthusiasm, the fatherland, and humanity; if our hearts are pure, and our souls steadfast
and patient, the genius inspired to interpret our aspirations, and bear to heaven our ideas
and our sufferings, will not be wanting. Let these statues stand. The noble monuments of feudal
times create no desire to return to the days of selfdom.

But I shall be told, there are imitators. I know it too well; but what lasting influence can
be exerted on social life by those who have no real life of their own? They will but flutter
in the void, so long as void there be. On the day when the living shall arise to take the place
of the dead, they will vanish like ghosts at cock- crow. Shall we never be sufficiently firm
in our own faith to dare to show fitting reverence for the grand typical figures of an anterior
age? It would be idle to speak of social art at all, or of the comprehension of humanity, if
we could not raise altars to the new gods, without overthrowing the old. Those only should
dare to utter the sacred name of progress, whose souls possess intelligence enough to comprehend
the past, and whose hearts possess sufficient poetic religion to reverence its greatness. The
temple of the true believer is not the chapel of a sect; it is a vast Pantheon, in which the
glorious images of Goethe and Byron will hold their honored place, long after Goetheism and
Byronism shall have ceased to be.

