Potage à la Jambe de Bois (Wooden-leg Soup).--Procure a fine fresh wooden-leg, one from Chelsea
is the best. Wash it carefully in six waters, blanch it, and trim neatly. Lay it at the bottom
of a large pot, into which place eight pounds of the undercut of prime beef, half a Bayonne
ham, two young chickens, and a sweetbread. To these add leeks, chervil, carrots, turnips, fifty
heads of asparagus, a few truffles, a large cow-cabbage, a pint of French beans, a peck of
very young peas, a tomato cut in slices, some potatoes, and a couple of bananas. Pour in three
gallons of water, and boil furiously till your soup is reduced to about a pint and a-half.
As it boils, add, drop by drop, a bottle of JULES MUMM's Extra Dry, and a gill of Scotch whiskey;
then take out your wooden leg, which wipe carefully and serve separately with a neat frill,
which can be easily cut from the cover of Sala's Jo---- (Editorial blue pencil again), round
the top. The soup itself is best served in a silver tureen, or in a Dresden china punch-bowl.
The above obviously is intended neither for school-boys nor school-girls, nor is it meant for
the tables of the wealthy and luxurious. It is emphatically a Poor Man's Dish, otherwise it
would never have found a place in the cookery column of that essentially popular periodical,
Sala's Journal. Hurrah! the Editor has gone out to "chop," and there was no blue pencil to
mar the last touching allusions. N.B.--Circulation, eight millions, nine hundred and thirty-three
thousand, two hundred and sixty-one and a-half. Guaranteed by five firms of Magna Chartered
Accountants.

OLD ARTFUL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW LEARNING.

Mr. STUART RENDEL, having stated at Llanfair-Caerecinion that "a day with Mr. GLADSTONE was
a whole liberal education," the London School Board has at last decided to alter the present
system completely. After many days' deliberation, it has been arranged to hire the Albert Palace
and Mr. GLADSTONE for a week. It is estimated that during six days, all the children now in
the London schools can, in detachments, be squeezed into the building and spend a day there
with the Right Honourable Gentleman. Seats will be provided on the platform for the Members
of the Board, as this instruction would be a great benefit to many of them. At the end of the
six days the present work of the Board will be finished, and it will adjourn for ten years,
when another week in the society of the Grand Old Educator will again suffice for the needs
of the rising generation. The numerous Board Schools will therefore become useless, but it
is not proposed to demolish them, as experience has shown that they are sure to fall down of
their own accord before long. The sumptuous offices of the Board will be converted into a Home
for Destitute Schoolmasters.

We have reason to believe that Mr. GLADSTONE, after fulfilling his engagement at the Albert
Palace, will make a tour in the provinces, and later on will have classes for journalists and
other literary men, whose style, in many cases, would be vastly improved by two minutes, or
even less, in the same room with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HAUNTED HOUSE.

A DIRGE.

(ADAPTED FROM THOMAS HOOD.)

  "A jolly place," said he, "in times of old.
  But something ails it now: the place is curst."

"Hart-Leap Well," by Wordsworth.

I.

  A residence for Tory, Whig or Rad,
  Where yet none had abiding habitation;
  A House--but darkened by the influence sad
    Of slow disintegration.

  There speech grew wild and rankly as the weed,
  GRAHAM with TANNER waged competitive trials,
  And vulgar bores of Billingsgatish breed
    Voided spleen's venomed vials.
  But gay or gloomy, fluent or infirm,
  None heeded their dull drawls, of hours' duration.
  The House was clearly in for a long term
    Of desolate stagnation.
  The SPEAKER yawned upon his Chair, he found
  It tiring work, a placid brow to furrow,
  To sit out speeches arguing round and round,
    From County or from Borough.
  The Members, like wild rabbits, scudded through
  The lobbies, took their seats, lounged, yawned--and vanished.
  The Whips like spectres wandered; well they knew
    All discipline was banished.
  The blatant bore,--the faddist, and the fool,
  Were listened to with an indifferent tameness.
  The windbag of the new Hibernian school
    Railed on with shocking sameness.
  The moping M.P. motionless and stiff,
  Who, on his bench sat silently and stilly,
  Gawped with round eyes and pendulous lips, as if
    He had been stricken silly:
  No cheery sound, except when far away
  Came echoes of 'cute LABBY's cynic laughter,
  Which, sick of Dumbleborough's chattering jay,
    His listeners rambled after.
  But Echo's self tires of a GRAHAM's tongue,
  Rot blent with rudeness gentlest nymph can't pardon.
  Why e'en the G.O.M. his grey head hung,
    And wished he were at Hawarden.
  Like vine unpruned, SEXTON's exuberant speech
  Sprawled o'er the question with the which he'd grapple;
  PICTON prosed on,--the style in which men preach
    In a dissenting chapel.
  Prince ARTHUR twined one lank leg t'other round,
  Drooping a long chin like BURNE-JONES's ladies;
  And HARCOURT, sickening of the strident sound,
    Wished CONYBEARE in Hades.
  For over all there hung a cloud of fear,
  A sense of imminent doom the spirit daunted,
  And said, as plain as whisper in the ear,
      The House is Haunted!

II.

  Oh, very gloomy is this House of Woe,
  Where yawns are numerous while Big Ben is knelling.
  It is not on the Session dull and slow,
    These pale M.P.'s are dwelling.
  Oh, very, very dreary is the gloom,
  But M.P.'s heed not HEALY's elocution;
  Each one is wondering what may be his doom
      After the Dissolution!

  That House of Woe must soon be closed to all
  Who linger now therein with tedium mortal,
  And of those lingerers a proportion small
      Again may pass its portal.
  There's many a one who o'er its threshold stole
  In Eighty-Six's curious Party tangle,
  Who for the votes which helped him head the poll
      In vain again may angle.
  The GRAHAMS and the CALDWELLS may look bold,
  So may the CONYBEARES, and COBBS and TANNERS;
  But the next House quite other men may hold,
      And (let's hope) other manners.
  They'd like to know when this will close its door
  Upon each moribund and mournful Member,
  And who will stand upon the House's floor
    After, say, next November.
  That's why the M.P.'s sit in silent doubt,
  Why spirits flag, and cheeks are pale and livid,
  And why the DISSOLUTION SPOOK stands out
    So ominously vivid.
  Some key to the result of the appeal
  They yearn for vainly, all their nerves a-quiver;
  The presence of the Shadow they all feel,
    And sit, and brood, and shiver.
  There is a sombre rumour in the air,
  The shadow of a Presence dim, atrocious;
  No human creature can be festive there,
    Even the most ferocious.
  An Omen in the place there seems to be,
  Both sides with spectral perturbation covering.
  The straining eyeballs are prepared to see
    The Apparition hovering.
  With doubt, with fear, their features are o'ercast;
  SALISBURY at Covent Garden might have spoken,
  But, save for Rumour's whispers on the blast,
    The silence is unbroken.
  And over all there hangs a cloud of fear,
  The Spook of Dissolution all has daunted,
  And says as plain as whisper in the ear,
    The House is Haunted!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

