We went to hear the psalmody. Ascending the staircase in the gable opposite the court-house,
we passed down the hall, and saw through the open door the young idea at its mental drill in
the hands of a pedagogue, apparently one of the [Greek: anaimosarka], who, ghastly white and
thatched with Paganini hair, sat at the head of the room, the ruling body of the unruly rout.
Down the long length, whose whitewashed walls were garnished with inscriptions, legal, moral,
and religious, all sublime as far as size went, were ranged parallel rows of négrillons in
the vast costumal variety of a ragged school. They stood bolt upright, square to the fore,
in the position of ' 'tention,' their naked toes disposed at an angle of 60º, with fingers
close to the seams of their breeches (when not breekless), heads up and eyes front. Face and
body were motionless, as if cast in ebony: nothing moved but the saucer-like white eyes and
the ivory-lined mouths, from whose ample lips and gape issued a prodigious volume of sound.
Native assistants, in sable skins and yellowish white chokers, carrying music-scores and armed
with canes, sloped through the avenues, occasionally halting to frown down some delinquent,
whose body was not perfectly motionless, and whose soul was not wholly fixed upon the development
of sacred time and tune. I have no doubt that they sang--

    The sun, the moon, and all the stars, &c.

precisely in the same spirit as if they had been intoning--

    Peter Hill! poor soul!
    Flog 'um wife, oh no! oh no!

and that famous anthropological assertion--

    Eve ate de appel,
    Gib one to daddy Adam;
    And so came mi-se-ry
    Up-on dis worl'.
  Chorus (bis)  Oh sor-row, oh sor-row!
    Tri-bu-la-tion
    Until sal-va-tion day.

It is a pity that time and toil should be thus wasted. The negro child, like the Hindu, is
much sharper, because more precocious, than the European; at six years he will become a good
penman; in fact, he promises more than he can perform. Reaching the age of puberty, his capacity
for progress suddenly disappears, the physical reason being well known, and the 'cute lad becomes
a dummer Junge. Mrs. Melville thus describes her small servant-girl from one of these schools:
'She looks almost nine years old; and, as far as reading goes, she knows nothing more than
her alphabet; can repeat the Prayer-Book Catechism by rote, and one or two hymns, utterly ignorant
all the while of the import of a single word.' Even in Europe education, till lately, exercised
the judgment too little, the memory too much; consequently there were more learned men than
wise men. The system is now changing, and due attention is paid to the corpus sanum, the first
requisite for the mens sana. The boys at Sá Leone are kept nine hours in school, learning verse
by heart, practising a vocalisation which cannot be heard without pain, and toiling at the
English language, which some missionaries seem to hold a second revelation. Far better two
or three hours of the 'three Rs' and six of the shop or workyard. Briefly, the system should
be that of the Basle Missionary Society, [Footnote: I deeply regret that Wanderings in West
Africa spoke far less fairly of this establishment than it deserves. My better judgment had
been warped by the prejudiced accounts of a fellow-traveller.] which combines abstract teaching
with practical instruction in useful handicraft, and which thus suggests the belief that work
is dignified as it is profitable.

The Sá Leonites from their earliest days were greedy to gain knowledge as the modern Greeks
and Bulgarians; but the motive was not exalted. Their proverb said, 'Read book, and learn to
be rogue as well as white man.' Hence useless, fanciful subjects were in vogue;--algebra, as
it were, before arithmetic;--and the poor made every sacrifice to give their sons a smattering
of Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. The desire of entering the 'professions' naturally affected the
standard of education. What is still wanted at Sá Leone is to raise the mass by giving to their
teaching a more practical turn, which shall cultivate habits of industry, economy, and self-respect,
and encourage handicrafts and agriculture as well as trade.

I have already noticed the Fourah Bay College. The Church Missionary Grammar-School, opened
in 1845, prepares boarders and day-scholars for university education; and the curriculum is
that of an ordinary English grammar-school. The establishment, which has already admitted over
1,000 boys, is now self-supporting, and has an invested surplus, with which tutors are sent
to England for higher instruction in 'pædagogia.' The Wesleyan High School for Boys, opened
in 1874, receives youths from neighbouring colonies; that for girls, originating with Mrs.
Godman, the wife of a veteran missionary still on the Coast, was founded in 1879. It was cordially
taken up by the natives, who subscribed all the funds. The founders thought best to adopt the
commercial principle; but no one as yet has asked for profit, and the school shows signs of
prosperity and progress. The Annie Walsh Memorial School for Girls, dating from a bequest by
the lady whose name it bears, is under the management of the Church Missionary Society. The
Catholics are, as usual, well to the fore. The priests keep a large school for boys, and the
sisters educate young women and girls. I have before described the dark novice,--

   Under a veil that wimpled was full low;
   And over all a black stole shee did throw.

The masters also make their children learn Arabic and English. There is a manliness and honesty
in the look of the Mandenga and the Susu never seen in the impudent 'recaptive.' The dignity
of El-Islam everywhere displays itself: it is the majesty of the monotheist, who ignores the
degrading doctrine of original sin; it is the sublime indifference to life which kazá wa kadar,
by us meagrely translated 'fatalism,' confers upon the votaries of 'the Faith.' These are not
the remarks of a prejudiced sympathiser with El-Islam: many others have noted the palpable
superiority of the Moslem over the missionary convert and the liberated populace of Sá Leone.

As a rule journalism on the West Coast is still in the lowest stage of Eatanswillism, and the
journal is essentially ephemeral. The newspapers of twenty years ago are all dead and forgotten.
Such were the 'African Herald,' a 'buff' organ, edited by the late Rev. Mr. Jones, a West Indian,
and its successor, the 'African Weekly Times.' The 'Sierra Leone Gazette' succumbed when the
Wesleyans established (1842) the 'Sierra Leone Watchman.' Other defuncts are the 'Free Press,'
a Radical paper, representing Young Sá Leone, and a fourth, the 'Intelligencer,' which strove
to prove what has sometimes been asserted at negro indignation-meetings, namely, that 'a white
man, if he behave himself, is as good as a black man.' Cain, like the rest of the family, was
a negro; but when rebuked by the Creator he turned pale with fear, a tint inherited by his
descendants. The theory is, par parenthèse, as good as any other. The only papers now published
are the 'West African Reporter,' whose proprietor and editor was the late Hon. Mr. Grant, and
the 'Watchman,' a quasi-comic sheet.

The worst feature of journalism in West Africa is that fair play is unknown to it. The negroes
may thoroughly identify themselves with England, claim a share in her greatness, and display
abundant lip-loyalty; yet there is the racial aversion to Englishmen in the concrete, and to
this is added the natural jealousy of seeing strangers monopolise the best appointments. The
Sá Leonite openly declares that he and his can rule the land much better and more economically
than the sickly foreigner, who spends half his service-time on board the steamers and at home.
'Dere goes another white raskel to his grave!' they will exclaim at the sight of a funeral.
'Wish dey all go and leave colony to US.' And as the reading and paying public is mainly composed
of Nigers, the papers must sooner or later cater for their needs, and lose no opportunity of
casting obloquy and ridicule upon the authorities and Albus in general. We can hardly blame
them. I have shown that the worst and most scandalous display of journalism comes from London.

After the church, the school, and the newspaper, the most important civilising institution
is the market. Sá Leone is favourably situated for collecting the interior trade, and yet seven-tenths
of the revenue is derived from articles passing through the Loko and Rokel rivers; the rest
is levied from wines, spirits, and tobacco, and in the form of preposterous harbour-dues. The
export duties are light, but the exports do not seem to have increased as rapidly as they should
have done during the last twenty years; this, too, despite missions into the interior and the
hospitable reception of native chiefs and their messengers. There are no assessed or house
taxes. The revenue and expenditure of the past five years have averaged, respectively, 63,869l.
and 59,283l., leaving a surplus of 4,586l., which might profitably be expended upon roads.
But the liabilities of the colony early in 1881 still amounted to 50,637l., being the balance
of a debt resulting principally from the harbour-works.

The present population of the original settlement--including British Kwiáh (Quiah), an early
annexation--is 53,862. The dependencies, Isles de Los, Tasso, Kikonkeh, and British Sherbro,
according to the census of 1881, add 6,684, a figure which experts would increase by 4,000.
The total, therefore, in round numbers, would be nearly 65,000. At the last census only 163
were resident whites; the crews and passengers of ships in port added 108.

On the whole the Sá Leonite cannot be called a success. Servants in shoals present themselves
on board the steamers, begging 'ma'sr' to take them down coast. In vain. The fellow is handier
than his southern brother: he can mend a wheel, make a coffin, or cut your hair. Yet none,
save the veriest greenhorn, will engage him in any capacity. As regards civility and respectfulness
he is far inferior to the emancipado of Cuba or the Brazil; with a superior development of
'sass,' he is often an inveterate thief. He has fits of drinking, when he becomes mad as a
Malay. He gambles, he overdresses himself, and he indulges in love-intrigues till he has exhausted
his means, and then he makes 'boss' pay for all. With a terrible love of summonsing, and a
thorough enjoyment of a law-court, he enters into the spirit of the thing like an attorney's
clerk. He soon wearies of the less exciting life in the wilder settlements, where orgies and
debauchery are not fully developed; home-sickness seizes him, and he deserts his post; probably
robbing house or till.

Even a black who has once visited Sá Leone is considered spoilt for life, as if he had spent
a year in England. Hence the eccentric Captain Phil. Beaver declared that he 'would rather
carry a rattlesnake than a negro who has been in London.' I have met with some ugly developments
of home-education. One was a yellow Dan Lambert, the son of a small shopkeeper, who was returning--dubbed
a 'Templar'--from the Land of Liberty. He was not a pleasant companion. His face was that of
a porker half-translated; he yelped the regular Tom Coffee laugh; and when asked why Sá Leone
had not contributed to the Crimean Widow Fund, he uttered the benevolent wish that 'the damned
---- and their brats might all starve like their husbands.' Another was a full-blooded negro,
a petty huckster at the 'Red Grave,' who, in his last 'homeward' voyage, had met at Madeira
the Dean and Deaness of Oxbridge. The lady resolved to keep up the creditable acquaintanceship:
so strong is feminine love for the 'black lion.' Shortly afterwards Niger paid his promised
visit, which he described graphically and sans sense of shame--how he had been met at the station
by a tall gentleman in uniform and gold-laced hat, how he was invited to enter a carriage,
and how great was his astonishment when the 'officer' preferred standing in the open air behind
to accompanying him inside. After this naïve début he showed tact. Mr. Dean wished to know
if anything could be done towards advancing the interesting guest in his 'profession'--not
trade. We talk of an English school-master, but a mulatto or a negro becomes a 'professor.'
Niger whispered 'No,' which, ladylike, meant a distinct 'Yes.' He ended by graciously accepting
an introduction to a Manchester firm, and soon relieved it of 16,000l.

No one who knows the West African coast will assert that the influence of Sá Leone has been
in any way for good. All can certify that this colony, intended as a 'model of policy,' and
founded with the object of promoting African improvement, has been the greatest obstacle to
progress. She fought to keep every advantage to herself, and she succeeded in securing a monopoly
of 'recaptives,' who were more wanted elsewhere. She became an incubus in 1820, when all British
possessions from N. Lat. 20º to S. Lat. 20º were made her dependencies. The snake was scotched
in 1844 by the Gold Coast achieving her independence. Yet Sá Leone raised herself to a government-general
in 1866, and possibly she will do so again.

The Sá Leonite has ever distinguished himself by kicking down, as the phrase is, the ladder
which raised him. No man maltreats his wild brother so much as the so-called 'civilised' negro:
he never addresses his congener except by 'You jackass!' and tells him ten times a day that
he considers such trash like the dirt beneath his feet. Consequently he is hated and despised
withal, being of the same colour as, while assuming such excessive superiority over, his former
equals. No one also is more hopeless about the civilisation of Africa than the semi-civilised
African returning to the 'home of his fathers.' He feels how hard has been his struggle to
emerge from savagery; he acknowledges, in his own case, a selection of species; and he foresees
no end to the centuries before there can be a nation equal even to himself. Yet in England
and in books he will cry up the majesty of African kings,--see, for a specimen, Bishop Crowther's
'Niger Diary.' He will give his fellow-countrymen, whom he thoroughly despises, a thousand
grand gifts of morals and industry. I have heard a negro assert, with the unblushing effrontery
which animates the Exeter Hall speechifier, that at some African den of thieves men leave their
money with impunity in the storehouse or on the highway. I read the assertion of a mulatto,
who well knew the contrary, 'A white man who supposes himself respected in Africa, because
he is white, is grievously mistaken.' The 'aristocracy of colour' is a notable and salient
fact in Africa, where the chiefs are lighter hued and better grown than their subjects; and
the reason is patent--they marry the handsomest women.

Finally, the Sá Leonite is the horror of Europeans on the West Coast. He has been formally
expelled by his neighbours, the Liberians. At Lagos and Abeokuta he lost no time in returning
to his original fetishism, which the 'recaptive' apparently can never throw off. Moreover,
he became an inveterate slave-dealer, impudently placing himself under native protection, and
renegading the flag that saved the crime-serf from lifelong servitude. These 'insolent, vagabond
loafers' were the only men who gave me much trouble in the so-called 'Oil rivers,' where one
of them accused a highly respected Scotch missionary of theft. Finally, the Gaboon merchants
long preferred forfeiting the benefits of the mail-steamers to seeing themselves invaded by
a locust tribe, whose loveliest view is, apparently, that which leads out of Sá Leone.

Part of this demoralisation arose from the over-tenderness of the British Government, in deference
to the philanthropist and the missionary. Throughout the Bights of Benin and Biafra, where
the chief stalks about with his fetishman and his executioner, there is still some manliness
amongst men, some modesty amongst women. There the offending wife fears beheading and 'saucy
water;' here she leaves with impunity her husband, who rarely abandons the better half. Consequently
the sex has become vicious as in Egypt--worse than the men, bad as these are. Petty larceny
is carried on to such an extent that no improvement is possible: as regards property, the peninsula
contains the most communistic of communities. The robbers are expert to a degree; they work
naked and well greased, and they choose early dawn or the night-hour when the tornado is most
violent. The men fight by biting, squeezing, and butting with the head, like the Brazilian
capoeira. The women have a truly horrible way of putting out of the world an obnoxious lover.
Ask an Aku if an Ibo is capable of poisoning you: he will say emphatically, 'Yes.' Put the
same question to an Ibo touching an Aku, and he will not reply, 'No.'

With respect to the relative position of Japhet and Ham--perhaps I should say Ham and Japhet--ultra-philanthropy
has granted all the aspirations of the Ethiopian melodist:--

     wish de legislator would set dis darkie free;
  Oh, what a happy place den de darkie world would be!
      We'd have a darkie parliament,
        An' darkie code of law,
      An' darkie judges on de bench,
        Darkie barristers and aw.

I own that darkey must be defended, and sturdily defended too, from the injustice and cruelty
of the class he calls 'poor white trash;' but the protection should be in reason, or it becomes
an injustice. Why, for instance, did the unwise negrophile propose to protect the Jamaica negro
against the Indian coolie? Because Niger wants it? Pure ignorance and prejudice of gentlemen
who stay at home! Though physically and mentally weaker than Europeans, the negro can hold
his own, as Sá Leone proves, by that combination which enables cattle to resist lions. Japhet
Albus is by nature aggressive; if not, he would not now be dwelling in the tents of Shem and
the huts of Ham. He feels towards Contrarius Albo as the game-cock regards the dunghill-fowl.
Displays of this sentiment on the part of the white population must be repressed; but this
should be done fairly and without passion.

I do not for a moment regret our philanthropical move, despite its awful waste of life and
gold. England, however can do her duty to Africa without cant, and humbug, and nonsense about
the 'sin and crime of slavery.' Serfdom, like cannibalism and polygamy, are the steps by which
human society rose to its present status: to abuse them is ignorantly to kick down the ladder.
The spirit of Christianity may tend to abolish servitude; but the letter distinctly admits
it, and the translators have unfairly rendered 'slave' and 'bondsman' by 'servant,' which is
absurd. England can fight, if necessary, against a traffic which injures the free man, but
she might abstain from abusing those who do not share her opinions. The anti-slavery party
has hitherto acted rather from sentiment than from reason; and Mr. Buckle was right in determining
that morality must be ruled by, and not rule, intellect. We have one point in our favour. The
dies atra between 1810-20, when a man could not speak what he thought upon the subject of slavery,
ended as the last slave left the West African coast; and yet I doubt whether the day is yet
come when we can draw upon the great labour-bank of Africa and establish that much-wanted institution,
the black ouvrier libre.

There are several classes interested in pitting black man against white man. An unscrupulous
missionary will, for his own ends, preach resistance to time-honoured customs and privileges
which Niger has himself accepted. An unworthy lawyer will urge litigation; a dishonest judge
or police-magistrate will make popularity at the expense of equity and honour; a weak-minded
official will fear the murmurs, the complaints, and the memorials of those under him, and the
tomahawking which awaits him from the little army of negrophiles at home. But the most dangerous
class of all is the mulatto; he is everywhere, like wealth, irritamenta malorum. The 'bar sinister,'
and the fancy that he is despised, fill him with ineffable gall and bitterness. Inferior in
physique to his black, and in morale to his white, parent, he seeks strength by making the
families of his progenitors fall out. Had the Southern States of America deported all the products
of 'miscegenation,' instead of keeping them in servitude, the 'patriarchal institution' might
have lasted to this day instead of being prematurely abolished.

My first visit to Sá Leone showed me the root of all her evils. There is hardly a peasant in
the peninsula. Had the 'colony-born' or older families, the 'King-yard men,' or recaptives,
and the creoles, or children of liberated Africans, been apprenticed and compelled to labour,
the colony would have become a flourishing item of the empire. Now it is the mere ruin of an
emporium; and the people, born and bred to do nothing, cannot prevail upon themselves to work.
But the 'improved African' has an extra contempt for agriculture, and he is good only at destruction.
Rice and cereals, indigo and cotton, coffee and arrowroot, tallow-nuts and shea-butter, squills
and jalap, oil-palms and cocoas, ginger, cayenne, and ground-nuts are to be grown. Copal and
bees'-wax would form articles of extensive export; but the people are satisfied with maize
and roots, especially the cassava, which to Sá Leone is a curse as great as the potato has
proved to Ireland. Petty peddling has ever been, and still is, the 'civilised African's' forte.
He willingly condemns himself to spend life between his wretched little booth and his Ebenezer,
to waste the week and keep the Sabbath holy by the 'holloaing of anthems.' His beau idéal of
life is to make wife and children work for, feed and clothe him, whilst he lies in the shady
piazza, removing his parasites and enjoying porcine existence. His pleasures are to saunter
about visiting friends; to grin and guffaw; to snuff, chew, and smoke, and at times to drink
kerring-kerry (caña or caxaça), poisonous rum at a shilling a bottle. Such is the life of ignoble
idleness to which, by not enforcing industry, we have condemned these sable tickets-of-leave.

Before quitting the African coast I diffidently suggested certain steps towards regenerating
our unhappy colony. For the encouragement of agriculture I proposed a tax upon small shopkeepers
and hucksters, who, by virtue of sitting behind a few strings of beads or yards of calico,
call themselves traders and merchants. This measure, by-the-by, was attempted in 1879 by Governor
Rowe, but the strong opposition compelled him to withdraw it. I would have imposed a heavy
tax upon all grog-shop licenses, and would have allowed very few retail-shops in the colony.
Police-magistrates appeared to me perfectly capable of settling disputes and of punishing offenders.
I would have discouraged the litigation which the presence of lawyers and a bench suggests,
and which causes such heartburn between Europeans and Africans. I would have established a
Court of Summary Jurisdiction, and never have allowed a black jury to 'sit upon' a white man,
or vice versâ; and in the case of a really deserving negro or mulatto I would rather see him
appointed Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland than Governor or Secretary of Sá Leone.

On my last journey I met the Hon. Mr. T. Risely Griffith, a West Indian and Colonial Secretary
at Sá Leone. He kindly read what I had written about the white man's Grave, and found it somewhat
harsh and bitter. At the same time he gave me, with leave to use, his valuable lecture delivered
before the Royal Colonial Institute. [Footnote: The Colonies and India, a weekly newspaper.
London: December 17, 1881.] Making allowance for the official couleur de rose, and reading
between the lines, I found that he had stated, in parliamentary language, what had been told
by me in the rude tongue of a traveller. The essay, he assured me, had been well received at
Sá Leone; and yet, to my knowledge, the newspapers of the western coast had proposed to make
it the subject of an 'indignation-meeting.'

Hear what Mr. Griffith has to say upon the crucial question--agriculture. 'The ordinary observer
cannot fail to be impressed with the great number of traders and hawkers. In the peninsula
of Sierra Leone there are returned 53,862; of these, traders and hawkers number 10,250, or
about 19 per cent., or, including hucksters, 23 per cent. Little good can result to a country
as long as one-fourth of its people are dependent for their livelihood for what they sell to
the remaining three-quarters.... The same tendency to engage in the work of distribution rather
than the production of wealth seems to be a general characteristic of the negro race.

'The real number of artisans or mechanics who have any right to the term is very limited; and
it is to be regretted that in Sierra Leone, where the people are apt to learn, and tolerably
quick to apply, there is not a greater number of thorough workmen to teach their handicrafts
and make them examples for the rising generation. A youth who has been two years with a carpenter,
boat-builder, blacksmith, or mason, arrogates the name to himself without compunction, and
frequently, whilst he is learning from an indifferent teacher the rudiments of his trade, he
sets up as a master. There is hardly a single trade that can turn out half a dozen men who
would be certificated by any European firm for possessing a thorough knowledge of it. Of all
trades in Sierra Leone, and certainly in Freetown, that of tailoring is the most patronised,
but this arises from the love of dress, which is inherent.

'The proper cultivation of the soil is, and must always be, the true foundation of prosperity
in any country. The shop cannot flourish unless the farm supports it, and the friends of the
colony regard with anxiety the centralisation of capital at Freetown. I have been gratified,
however, to notice that the desire to acquire land and cultivate it has lately increased to
a very great extent, and I regard it as a very hopeful sign for the future. The people still
want two things, capital and scientific agricultural knowledge. The native implements are of
the rudest kind--their hoes little more than sufficient to scratch the ground, and their only
other implement a cutlass to cut down the bush. Ploughs are unknown, and spades very little
used. Wheelbarrows are detested, although they are not quite unknown; the people would sooner
"tote" the soil in a box on their heads, and instances are on record where the negro has "toted"
the wheelbarrow itself, wheel, handle, and all.'

Mr. Griffith further informs us that the Colonial Government is desirous of fostering and encouraging
agriculture; that it proposes to establish, or rather to re-establish, a model farm; that lands
have been granted at a trifling sum to Mr. William Grant on condition of his devoting capital
and labour to the development of agriculture; that Mr. Thomas Bright has laid out a coffee
and cocoa farm at Murray Town; and that Mr. Samuel Lewis, a barrister-at-law, universally well
spoken of, is engaged in cultivation, with a view of studying the best methods and of influencing
his fellow-countrymen in favour of agricultural pursuits. Major Bolton also is working the
land seventeen miles down coast, and planting cocoa-nuts, chocolate, and Kola-trees. The latter,
when ten years old, are said each to fetch 15l. per annum. Here, therefore, we have at least
a beginning.

During the discussion on Mr. Griffith's lecture, some home-truths were told by the Hon. Mr.
Grant, [Footnote: This 'eminent African,' who had gone to England with the view of buying agricultural
implements and an ice-machine, died in London on January 28, 1881. His speech, therefore, was
delivered only a week or so before his death. Much fulsome praise of him followed in the press,
which seemed completely surprised that a black man could talk common sense.] a full-blooded
negro, of the Ibo tribe, and a member of the Sierra Leone Legislative Council. He objected
to the term 'white man's Grave.' He bravely and truly told his audience that if the French
held possession of Sá Leone they would have made it a 'different thing.' After praising the
present Governor's instruction-ordinance he spoke these remarkable words:--

'But education from the point I allude to is that practical education which develops the man
and makes him what he is, not the education which makes him simply the blind imitator of what
he is not. Of course the education, as originally introduced into the colony, was an experiment,
and a grand experiment it was. They said, "There are these people, and we will educate them
as ourselves." It was a good idea, but it was defective, because there is as great a difference
between the negro and the white man as there can be. He is capable of doing anything that the
white man can do; but then, to get him to do that, you must educate him in himself. You must
bring him out by himself: you must not educate him otherwise. He must be educated to carry
out a proper and distinct course for himself. The complaint has been general of the want of
success in the education of the negro; but it is not his fault: the fault is from the defect
of his education. He fancies, by the sort of education which you give him, that he must imitate
you in everything--act like you, dress in broadcloth like you, and have his tall black hat
like you. Then you see the result is that he is not himself; he confuses himself, and when
he comes to act within himself as a man he is confused, and you find fault that he has not
improved as he ought to do. But if he is properly educated you will find him of far greater
assistance to you than you have any idea of.'

The remarks on agriculture and on capital were equally apposite; and Captain Cameron remarked
that these were the 'truest words of wisdom about Africa that it ever was his lot to hear.'
They will leave a sweet savour in the reader's mouth after a somewhat acid chapter.

But the ingrained idleness of generations is not so easily cleared away. The real cure for
Sá Leone will be an immigration of Chinese or of Indian coolies, that will cheapen labour and
enable men of capital to farm on a large scale. It may be years before agriculture supplants
trade with its light work and ready profits; but the supplanting process itself will do good.
At present Sá Leone finds it cheaper to import salt from England than to lay out a salina,
and to make an article of commerce which finds its way into the furthest interior. Immigration,
I repeat, is the sole panacea for the evils which afflict the Lioness Range.

CHAPTER XIII.

FROM SÁ LEONE TO CAPE PALMAS.

Frowsy old Sá Leone bestowed on us a parting smile. After a roaring tornado at night and its
terminal deluge, the morning of January 19 broke clear and fine. We could easily trace, amongst
the curious series of volcanic cones, the three several sanitary steps on the Leicester or
Lioness Hill. These are, first the hospice of the French Jesuits, now officers' quarters; then
a long white shed, the soldiers' hospital; and highest (1,700 feet) the box which lodges their
commandant. Even the seldom-seen 'Sugarloaf' was fairly outlined against the mild blue vault.
Although the withering hand of summer was on the scene, the old charnel-house looked lovely;
even the low lines of the Bullom shore borrowed a kind of beauty from the air. The hues were
those of Heligoland set in frames of lapis lazuli above and of sapphire below; golden sand,
green strand of silky Bermuda-grass, and red land showing chiefly in banks and thready paths.
Again we admired the dainty and delicate beauties of the shore about Pirate Bay and other ill-named
sites. Then bidding adieu to the white man's Red Grave and steering south-west, we gave a wide
berth to the redoubted 'Carpenter,' upon which the waves played; to the shoals of St. Anne,
and to a multitude of others which line the coast as far as that treacherous False Cape and
lumpy Cape Shelling or Shilling, whose prolongation is the Banana group.

Sherbro, fifty miles distant, was passed at night. Then (sixty miles) came the Gallinas River,
a great centre of export, which has not forgotten Pedro Blanco. This prince of slavers, whose
establishment appears on the charts of 1836-38, imported no goods; he bought cargoes offered
to him and he paid them by bills on England, drawing, says the Coast scandal, upon two Quaker
brothers at Liverpool. Not a little curious that our country supplied the money both to carry
on the traite and to put it down. Three miles south of the Gallinas the Sulaymá River flows
in. Here the scenery suggests a child's first attempt at colouring in horizontal lines; a dangerous
surf ever foams white upon the yellow shore, bearing an eternal growth of green. Two holes
in the bush and a few thatched roofs, separated by a few miles, showed the Harris factories,
which caused frequent teapot-storms between 1865 and 1878. The authorities of Liberia, model
claimants with a touch of savage mendicancy, demanded the land and back-dues from time immemorial.
'Palaver' was at last 'set' by the late lamented David Hopkins, consul for the Bights, in the
presence of a British cruiser and two American ships of war.

The weather resumed its old mood, a mixture in equal parts of 'Smokes' and of Harmatan or Scirocco.
At noon next day we steamed by Cape Mount, the northernmost boundary of Liberia, [Footnote:
The 'liberateds' of Liberia, who lose nothing by not asking, claim the shore from the Sam Pedro
River southwards to the Jong, an affluent of the Shebar or Sherbro stream, 90 miles north of
Cape Mount. We admit their pretensions as far only as the Sugary River, four miles above the
Máfá (Mafaw), or Cape Mount stream.] a noble landmark and a place with a future. Approaching
it, we first see the dwarf bar of the Máfá, draining a huge lagoon ('Fisherman's Lake'). On
the banks and streams are sundry little villages, Kru Town and Port Robert, the American mission-ground.
The harbour is held to be the first of five, the others being Monrovia; Grand Bassá (Bassaw),
with Edina; Sinou, and Cape Palmas.

The Mount is an isolated rocky tongue rising suddenly like an island from the low levels, and
trending north-west to south-east. The site is perfectly healthy; the ground is gravel, not
clay, and the stone is basalt. The upper heights are forested and full of game; the lower are
cleared and await the colonist. With the pure and keen Atlantic breeze ever blowing over it,
the Mount is a ready-made sanatorium. Its youth has been disreputable. Here Captain Canot,
[Footnote: Wanderings in West Africa, vol. i. chap. v.] the Franco-Italian lieutenant of Pedro
Blanco, sold the coast till compelled by H.M. cruisers to fall back upon honest trade. His
name survives in 'Canot's Tree,' under whose shade he held his palavers. Let us hope that the
respectable middle age of Cape Mount will be devoted to curing the sick coaster.

Beyond this fine headland, a handsome likeness of Holyhead seen from the south, stretch the
long, low, dull shores of Liberia, canopied by unclean skies and based on dirty-looking seas.
The natives, who, as usual, are new upon the coast, and who preserve curious traditions about
their predecessors, are the Vái (not Vei), a Mandengan race still pagan. They call, however,
the world 'duniyá,' and the wife 'námúsi,' words which show whence their ideas are derived.
Their colour is lighter than the Kruman's; there are pretty faces, especially amongst the girlish
boys, and the fine feet and delicate hands are those of 'les Gabons.' And they are interesting
on two other counts. Their language combines the three several forms of human speech, the isolating
(e.g. 'love'), the agglutinating ('lovely'), and the polysynthetic ('loving,' 'loved'). Furthermore
they developed an alphabet, or rather a syllabary, which made much noise amongst missionary
'circles,' and concerning which Lt. Forbes, R.N., Mr. Norris, and Herr Koelle wrote abundant
nonsense. Its origin is still unknown. Some attribute it to direct inspiration (whatever that
may mean), others to marks traced upon the sand originally by boys stealing palm-wine. My belief
is that the suggestion came from the Moslems. Of late years it has been waxing obsolete, and
few care to write their letters in it.

The Vái, who extend as far as Little Cape Mount River, are depicted in a contrast of extremes.
Mr. H. C. Creswick, [Footnote: Late manager of the 'Gold Coast Mining Company.' Mr. Creswick
treated the subject in 'Life amongst the Veys' (Trans. Ethnol. Soc. of London, 1867). He tells
at full length the curious legend of their immigration, and notes the same reverence for the
crocodile which prevails at Dixcove and prevailed in Egypt.] who long dwelt amongst them, and
dealt with them from Cape Mount, gives a high character to those who have not been perverted
by civilisation. He found the commonalty civil, kind, and hospitable; active and industrious,
to a certain extent. Their palm-oil is the best on the coast, and can be drunk like that of
the olive or the cod-liver. The chiefs he describes as gentlemen. The missionaries assert that
they are wholly without morals, never punishing the infringement of marital rights; petty thieves,
and idle and feckless to the last degree. Certain Monrovia men have laid out farms of coffee
and cacáo (chocolate) upon the St. Paul River, which, heading in Mandenga-land, breaks the
chord of the bay; but nothing can induce these ex-pets or their congeners, the Golás and the
Pesis, to work.

Like most of the coast-races, the Vái seem to be arrant cowards. The headmen salute their visitors
Arab-fashion, with flourishes of the sword; but swording ends there. Of late they were attacked
by the savages of the interior, Gallinas, Pannis, and Kúsús. The latter, meaning the 'wolves'
or the 'wild boars,' is the popular nickname of the Mendi or Mindi tribes, occupying the Sherbro-banks.
They did excellent service in the last Ashanti war (1873-74) by flogging forward the fugitive
Fantis. Winwood Keade, [Footnote: The Story of the Ashanti Campaign. Smith & Elder, London,
1874. It is a thousand pities that the volume was pruned, to use the mildest term. My friend's
memory seems to brighten with the years, doubtless the effect of his heroic honesty in telling
what he held to be the truth. His Martyrdom of Man, in which even his publisher did not believe,
has reached a fourth edition; it was quoted by Mr. Gladstone, and Mrs. Grundy still buys it,
in order to put it behind the fire.] an excellent judge of Africans, declares that they are
very courageous, 'keen as mustard' for the fray. On the raid they creep up to and surround
the doomed village; they raise the war-cry shortly before sunrise, and, as the villagers fly,
they tell them by the touch. If the body feels warm after sleep, unlike their own dew-cooled
skins, it soon becomes a corpse. They advance with two long knives, generally matchets, one
held between the teeth. They prefer the white arm because 'guns miss fire, but swords are like
the chicken's beak, that never fails to hit the grain.' Some 250 of these desperadoes lately
drove off 5,000 of the semi-civilised recreants and took about 560 prisoners, including the
'King' of the Vái.

After covering forty-three miles from Cape Mount we anchored (5 P.M.) in the long, monotonous
roll under Mount Mesurado. The name was probably Monserrate, given by the early Portuguese.
It is entitled the Cradle of Liberia. The idea of restoring to Africa recaptured natives and
manumitted slaves was broached in 1770 by the Rev. Samuel Hopkins, of Newport, R.I. The scheme
for 'civilising and christianising' the natives assumed organic form at Washington in 1816.
In January 1820 the first emigrants embarked from New York for 'Liberia.' The original grant
of land was made (April 1822) to the 'American Society for Colonising the Free People of the
United States,' by King Peter and sundry chiefs of the Grain Coast, who little knew what they
were doing. The place was described in those days as an Inferno, the very head and front of
the export trade, the waters swarming with slavers, the shore bearing forty slave-factories,
and the whole showing scenes of horror which made the site 'Satan's seat of abominations.'
It has now changed its nature with its name, and has become the head-quarters of Dullness,
that goddess who, we are assured, never dies.

Mesurado Mount, with the inverted cataract rushing white up its black rocks, is a picturesque
feature. Halfway clearings for coffee-plantations, with a lime-washed bungalow, the President's
country-quarters, lead to the feathered and forested crest which bears the 'pharos.' This protection
against wreck is worse than nothing; it is lighted with palm-oil every night, and then left
to its own sweet will. Consequently the red glimmer, supposed to show at thirteen miles, is
rarely visible beyond three. A dotting of white frame-houses and curls of blue smoke betray
the capital. It lurks behind the narrow sand-bar which banks the shallow and useless Mesurado
River, and few men land without an involuntary ablution in the salt water. Usually the stream
mouths by an ugly little bar at some distance from the roadstead; after heavy rains it bursts
the sand-strip and discharges in straight line.

We had visitors that evening from the Yankee-Doodle-niggery colony, peopled by citizens who
are not 'subjects.' Bishop C. C. Pinnock, absent from his home at Cape Mount, dined with us
and told me about the death of an old friend, good Bishop Payne. His successor objects to learning
and talking native tongues, and he insists upon teaching English to all the mission-scholars.
His reasons are shrewd, if not convincing; for instance, 'most languages,' says the Right Reverend,
'have some term which we translate "love." But "love" in English is not equivalent to its representative
in Kru or in Vái. Therefore by using their words I am expressing their ideas; I bring them
over to mine by the reverse process.'

We shipped for Grand Bassá two citizens, a lawyer and an attorney. Of course one was an 'Honourable;'
[Footnote: Even the Coast English are always confounding the Hon. John A. (son of a peer) with
the Hon. Mr. A. (official rank), and I have seen sundry civilians thus mis-sign themselves.]
as Mr. H. M. Stanley says, [Footnote: Coomassie and Magdala. New York, Harpers, 1874.] 'mostly
every other man is here so styled.' They talked professionally of the 'Whig ticket' and the
'Re-publican party,' but they neither 'guess'd' nor 'kalklated,' and if they wore they did
not show revolvers and bowie-knives. They did not say, 'We air a go-ahead people,' they were
not given to 'highfalutin',' nor did they chew their tobacco. They were, however, accompanied
by an extremely objectionable 'infant,' aged seven, who lost no time in laying hands upon Miss
M.'s trinkets, by way of returning civility. Her father restored them, treating the theft as
a matter of course.

The citizens gave me sundry details about the 'rubber'-trade, which began in 1877. Monrovia
now exports to England and the Continent some 100,000 lbs., which sell at 1s. 4d. each. Gum-elastic
is gathered chiefly by the Bassá people, who are, however, too lazy to keep it clean; they
store it in grass-bags and transport it in canoes. Liberian coffee is, or rather would be,
famous if produced in sufficient quantities to satisfy demand. At present it goes chiefly to
the United States, where, like Mocha, it serves to flavour burnt maize. Messieurs Spiers and
Pond would buy any quantity of it, and of late years Brazilian coffee-planters have taken shoots
to be grown at home. Here it fetches 1s. per lb.; in England the price doubles. This coffee
requires keeping for many months, or the infusion is potent enough to cause the 'shakes;' it
is the same with Brazilian green tea. The bouquet is excellent, and the flavour pretty good.
There is a great difference in the shape of the beans, which range between the broad flat Harar
and the small, round, horny Mocha.

I could obtain few details concerning the 'Black Devil Society,' which suggests the old 'Know-nothings.'
It has been, they say, somewhat active in flogging strangers, especially Sá Leone men. Most
of the latter, however, have been expelled for refusing to change their style from 'subjects'
to 'citizens'--a foreign word in English and Anglo-African ears.

At the time of our visit the republic was in a parlous state. H.E. Mr. Gardiner, the new President,
refused to swear in the Upper House, and the Lower refused to acknowledge the Presidential
authority. Consequently business had been at a standstill for six weeks. We were disappointed
in our hopes of being accompanied by the Honourable Professor E. W. Blyden, ex-minister to
England and afterwards principal of the college. He had travelled with Winwood Reade, and I
looked forward to hearing the opinions of an African Arabic scholar touching the progress and
future of El-Islam in the Dark Continent. That it advances with giant steps may be proved by
these figures. Between 1861 and 1862 I found at most a dozen Moslems at Lagos; in 1865 the
number had risen to 1,200, and in 1880, according to my old friend M. Colonna, Agent Consulaire
de France, it passes 10,000, requiring twenty-seven mosques.

The latest charts of Liberia show no less than twenty-six parallelograms stretching inland,
at various angles with the shore, and stated to have been acquired by 'conquest or purchase'
between 1822 and 1827; but the natives, especially the Krumen, complain that after allowing
the foreigners to dwell, amongst them they have been despoiled of their possessions, and that,
once lords of the soil, they have sunk to mere serfs. Hence the frequent wars and chronic bad
blood. Every African traveller knows the meaning of land-purchase in these regions. There are
two ideas peculiar to the negro brain, but apparently inadmissible into European heads. The
first is the non-alienation of land. Niger never parts with his ground in perpetuity; he has
always the mental reservation, while selling it to a stranger, that the soil and its improvements
return to him by right after the death or the departure of the purchaser. Should the settler's
heirs or assignees desire to remain in loco, they are expected to pay a fresh gratification;
the lessor will raise his terms as high as possible, but public opinion will oblige him to
remain content with a 'dash,' or present, equivalent to that paid by the original lessee.

The second idea is even more repugnant to European feelings. In Africa a born chattel is a
chattel for ever: the native phrase is, ''Pose man once come up slave, he be slave all time.'
There is no such thing as absolute manumission: the unsophisticated libertus himself would
not dream of claiming it. We have on board a white-headed negro in an old and threadbare Dutch
uniform, returning from Java on a yearly pension of fifteen dollars. According to treaty he
had been given by the King of Ashanti to the Hollanders, and he had served them so long that
he spoke only Low German and Malay. He will be compelled to end his career somewhere within
the range of our fort-guns, or his owner's family will claim and carry off their property.

At 8 A.M. we steamed against a fine fresh wind past mount Mesurado en route for Grand Bassá
(Bassaw), distant fifty-five miles. To port lies Montserrado County, where the shore-strip
looks comparatively high and healthy. The Bassás begin some thirty miles below the Jong River,
and now we enter the regions of Grand, Middle, and Little Piccaninny (pequenino), Whole and
Half, i.e. half-way. Thus we pass, going south-wards, Bassá, Middle Bassá, Grand Bassá, and
Bassá Cove, followed by Cestos and Cess, Settra and Sesters, Whole and Half. The coast is well
known, while the interior is almost unexplored. Probably there is no inducement to attract
strangers.

We are grateful for small mercies, and note a picturesque view from the open roadstead of Grand
Bassá. The flats are knobbed with lumpy mounds; North Saddle Hill, with its central seat; Tall
Hill; the blue ridges of the Bassá Hills, and St. John's Hill upon the line of its river. Nothing
can be healthier than these sites, which are well populated; and the slopes are admirably fitted
for that 'Arabian berry' whose proper home is Africa. But, while hill-coffee has superior flavour
lowland-coffee is preferred in commerce, because the grain is larger and heavier.

Grand Bassá is the only tract in Liberia where the Sá Leonite is still admitted. The foreshore
of yellow sand, pointed and dotted by lines and falls of black rock, fronts a shallow bay as
foul and stony as the coast. Here are three settlements, parted by narrow walls of 'bush.'
Edina, the northernmost, is said to do more business than any other port in the republic; she
also builds fine, strong surf-boats of German and American type, carrying from one to five
tons. The keels are bow-shaped, never straight-lined from stem to stern; and the breakers are
well under the craft before their mighty crests toss it aloft and fling it into the deep trough.
They are far superior to the boats with weather-boards in the fore which formerly bore us to
land. The crew scoop up the water as if digging with the paddle; they vary the exercise by
highly eccentric movements, and they sing savage barcarolles the better to keep time.

The middle settlement is Upper Buchanan, whose river, the St. John's, owns a bar infamous as
that of Lagos for surf and sharks. The southernmost, Lower Buchanan, is defended by a long
and broken wall of black reef, but the village is far from smooth water. All these 'towns'
occupy holes in a curtain of the densest and tallest greenery. They are composed of groups
and scatters of whitewashed houses, half of them looking like chapels and the other like toys.
Each has its adjunct of brown huts, the native quarter. These Bassá tribes must not be confounded
with their neighbours the Krumen; the languages are quite different, and the latter is of much
harsher sound. There is no doubt of this being a good place for engaging labour, and it is
hoped that in due time Bassá-hands, who work well, will be engaged for the Gold Coast mines.
At present, however, they avoid English ships, call themselves 'Americans,' and willingly serve
on board the Yankee craft which load with coffee, cam-wood, and palm-oil.

We steamed along the Cape, River, and Town of Sinou, the very home of the Kráo, or Krumen,
strictly speaking a small tribe. Returning homeward-bound, we here landed a host of men from
the Oil-rivers, greatly to my delight, as they had cumbered the deck with their leaky powder-kegs,
amid which wandered the sailors, smoking unconcernedly. In the 'good old times' this would
not have been allowed. At least one poor fellow was drowned, so careful were the relatives
to embark the kit, so careless of the owner's person. Next day we sighted the 'Garraway-trees,'
silk cottons some 200 feet high, fine marks for clearing the Cape shoals. Then came Fishtown
and Rocktown, once celebrated for the exploits of Ashmun and his associates; and at 2.15 P.M.
we anchored in the heavy Harmatan roll off

     The Cape of Palmas, called from palmy shade.

A score of years ago the A.S.S. steamers lay within half a mile of shore; and, 'barrin'' the
ducking, it was easy to land. But the bay is bossed with rocks and skirted with shoals; they
lurk treacherously under water, and have brought many a tall ship to grief. As for the obsolete
hydrographic charts, they only add to the danger. Two wrecks give us ample warning. One is
a German barque lying close to the bar of the fussy little river; the other, a huge mass of
rust, is the hapless Yoruba. Years ago, after the fashion of the Nigritia and the Monrovia,
she was carelessly lost. Though anchored in a safe place, when swinging round she hit upon
a rock and was incontinently ripped up; the injured compartment filled, and the skipper ran
her on the beach, wrecking her according to Act of Parliament. They once managed to get her
off, but she had not power to stem the seas, and there she still lies high and dry.

Cape Palmas, or Bamnepo, with its outlying islet-reef of black rock, on which breaks an eternal
surf, is the theoretical turning-point from the Windward coast, which begins with the Senegal,
to the Leeward, and which ends in the Benin Bight. We are entering the region

          Unde nigerrimus Auster
     Nascitur.

Practically and commercially the former is worked by the Bristol barques and the latter commences
at Cape Threepoints. The bold headland, a hundred feet tall and half a mile broad by a quarter
long, bounded north by its river, has a base of black micaceous granite supporting red argillaceous
loam. Everywhere beyond the burning of the billows the land-surface is tapestried with verdure
and tufted with cocoas; they still show the traditional clump which gave the name recorded
by Camoens. The neck attaching the head to the continent-body is a long, low sand-spit; and
the background sweeps northward in the clear grassy stretches which African travellers agree
to call 'parks.' These are fronted by screens of tall trees, and backed by the blue tops of
little hills, a combination which strongly reminded me of the Gaboon.

The prominent building is still the large white-washed mission-house with its ample windows
and shady piazzas: the sons of St. Benedict could not have placed it better. In rear lies the
square tower yclept a lighthouse, and manipulated like that of Monrovia; its range is said
to be thirteen miles, but it rarely shows beyond five. An adjacent flagstaff bears above the
steamer-signal the Liberian arms, stripes and a lone star not unknown to the ages between Assyria
and Texas. The body of the settlement lying upon the river is called Harper, after a 'remarkable
negro,' and its suburbs lodge the natives. When I last visited it the people were rising to
the third stage of their architecture. The first, or nomad, is the hide or mat thrown over
a bush or a few standing sticks; then comes the cylinder, the round hovel of the northern and
southern regions, with the extinguisher or the oven-shaped thatch-roof; and, lastly, the square
or oblong form which marks growing civilisation. The American missionaries laboured strenuously
to build St. Mark's Hospital and Church, the latter a very creditable piece of lumber-work,
with 500 seats in nave and aisles. But now everything hereabouts is 'down in its luck.' This
puerile copy, or rather caricature, of the United States can console itself only by saying,
'Spero meliora.'

CHAPTER XIV.

FROM CAPE PALMAS TO AXIM.

I had no call to land at Cape Palmas. All my friends had passed away; the Rev. C. E. Hoffman
and Bishop Payne, both in America. Mr. Potter, of the stores, still lives to eat rice and palm-oil
in retirement; but with the energetic Macgill departed the trade and prosperity of the place.
Senator John Marshall, of Marshall's Hotel, has also gone to the many, and the stranger's only
place of refuge is a mean boarding-house.

Much injury was done to the settlement by the so-called 'Grebo war.' These wild owners of Cape
Palmas are confounded by Europeans with the true Krumen, their distant cousins. The tribal
name is popularly derived from gré, or gri, the jumping monkey, and it alludes to a late immigration.
A host of some 20,000 savages closely besieged the settlement and ravaged all the lands belonging
to the intruders, especially the fine 'French farm.' Fighting ended with a 'treaty of peace
and renewal of allegiance' (sic!) at Harper on March 1, 1876, following the 'battle of Harper'
(October 10, 1875). The latter, resulting from an attack on Grebo Big Town, proved a regular
'Bull's Run,' wherein the citizens lost all their guns and ammunition, and where the Grebes
slaughtered my true and trusty steward, Selim Agha.

I must allow myself a few lines in memory of a typical man. Selim was a Nubian of lamp-black
skin; but his features were Semitic down to the nose-bridge, and below it, like the hair, distinctly
African: this mixture characterises the negroid as opposed to the negro. In the first fourth
of the present century he was bought by Mr. Thurburn--venerabile nomen--of Alexandria, and
sent for education to North Britain. There he learned to speak Scotch, to make turtle-soup,
to stuff birds, to keep accounts, and to be useful and valuable in a series of ways. Then his
thoughts, full of philanthropy, turned towards the 'old mother.' The murder of Dr. Barth's
companion, Vogel, in 1856, originated seven fruitless expeditions to murderous Wadáy, and he
made sundry journeys into the interior. I believe that he took service for some time with Lieutenant
(now Sir John H.) Glover before he became my factotum between 1860 and 1865. When I left the
Coast he transferred himself to Liberia, where, he wrote, they proposed to 'run him for the
presidency.' Selim joined the Monrovians during the Grebo war as an assistant-surgeon, his
object being to mitigate the horrors of the campaign; and he met his death on October 9, 1875,
during the mismanaged attack on Grebo Big Town. Captain A. B. Ellis, in his amusing and outspoken
'West African Sketches,' quotes from the 'Liberian Independent' the following statement: 'Mr.
Selim Agha was also overtaken by the barbarous Greboes, and one of them, "Bye Weah" by name,
after allowing him to read his Bible, which he had by him in his pocket, and which he made
a present of to the barbarian, chopped his body all about, chopped off his head, which he took
to his town with eighteen others, and threw the body with the gift into the swamp.' The account
sounds trustworthy, especially that about the Bible: it is exactly what the poor fellow would
have done. But many have assured me that he was slaughtered by mistake during the rout of his
party. R.I.P.

Another reminiscence.

Although it has melancholy associations, I can hardly remember without a smile my last visit
to good Bishop Payne. He led me to the mission-school, a shed that sheltered settles and desks,
tattered books, slates and boards, two native pedagogues, and two lines of pupils sized from
the right, the biggest being nearest the 'boss.' We took our places upon the bench, and the
catechiser, when bade to begin, opened, after a little hesitation, as follows:--

    Q. Who he be de fuss man?--A. Adam.
    Q. Who he be de fuss woman?--A. Ebe.
    Q. Whar de Lord put 'em?--A. In de garden.
    Q. What he be de garden?--A. Eden.
    Q. What else he be dere?--A. De sarpint.
    Q. What he be de sarpint?--A. De snake.
    Q. Heigh! What, de snake he 'peak?--A. No, him be debbil.

And so forth. The reading was much in the same style. The whole scene reminded me of a naïve
narrative [Footnote: The Gospel to the Africans: Narrative of the Life and Labours of the Rev.
William Jameson. London: Hamilton, Adams, & Co., 1861.] which gives the 'following account
of the fall of our First Parents from the lips of an aged negro at the examination of candidates:'--

'Massa (God) said Adam must nyamee (eat) all de fruit ob de garden, but (be out, except) de
tree of knowledge. And he said to Adam, "Adam! you no muss nyamee dis fruit, else you dead."
De serpent come to say to Mammy Eve, "Dis fruit berry good; he make you too wise." Mammy she
take lillee (little) bit, and bring de oder harf gib Daddy Adam. Daddee no will taste it fuss
time, but Mammy tell him it be berry good. Den him nyamee de oder harf. Den Daddy and Mammy
been know dat dem be naked. Dey go hide for bush. Massa come from heaven, but Him no fin' Adam
all about. Den Massa strike Him foot on de ground and say, "I wage Adam been nyamee de fruit."
Massa go seek Adam and fin' him hidin' in de bush, and put him out ob de garden. Then Daddy
and Mammy dey take leaves and sew 'em for clothes.'

The Bishop looked on approvingly. We then spoke of the mysterious Mount Geddia, the Lybian
Thala Oros of Ptolemy. [Footnote: Lib. iv. 6, §§ 12, 14, 16, the home of the Thála tribe.]

The people say that it may be seen at times from Settra Kru, that the distance by round road
is some 200 miles, and that none have ascended it on account of the intense cold. If this be
fact, there is a Kilima-njáro 18,000 feet high in Western Africa. The glitter of the white
cap has been visible from great distances, and some would explain it by a bare vein of quartz--again,
Kilima-njáro. The best time to travel would be in October or November, after the rains; and
the Grebo rascals might be paid and persuaded to supply an escort.

At Cape Palmas we engaged thirty so-called Krumen: only seven were ready to accompany us, and
the rest came nearly two months behind time. This is the farming season, and the people do
not like to leave their field-lands. Jack Davis, headman, chief, crimp and 'promising' party,
had been warned to be ready by Mr. R. B. N. Walker, whose name and certificate he wore upon
a big silver crescent; but as Senegal appeared on Sunday instead of Saturday, he gravely declared
that his batch had retired to their plantations--in black-man's English, 'small countries.'
We were compelled to make an advance, a measure unknown of old, and to pay more than double
hire for working on the Gold Coast. These races, Kruboys, Grebos, and their cognates, have
not improved during the last score of years. Their headmen were old hands approaching the fifties:
now they are youths of twenty-five. The younger sort willingly engaged for three years; now
they begin to notch their tallies for every new moon, and they wax home-sick after the tenth
month. Once they were content to carry home a seaman's chest well filled with 'chow-chow' and
stolen goods; in these days they must have ready money to deal with the Bristol barques.

Having before described the 'Kráo' and the Kru republic, with its four recognised castes, I
need not repeat myself. [Footnote: Wanderings, &c., vol. ii. chap. vi., which ends with a short
specimen of the language.] We again admired the magnificent development of muscle, which stood
out in bunches as on the Farnese Hercules, set off by the most appropriate dress, a coloured
oblong of loin-cloth, tucked in at the waist. We marvelled too at the contrast of Grecian figure
and cynocephalous features, whose frizzly thatch, often cut into garden-plots, is unnecessarily
protected by a gaudy greasy cap.

In morals too these men are as peculiar as they are contradictory. They work, and work well:
many old Coasters prefer them to all other tribes. They are at their best in boats or on board
ship, especially ships of war, where they are disciplined. For carrying burdens, or working
in the bush, they are by no means so valuable and yet, as will be seen, they are highly thought
of by some miners in the Gold Mines. In the house they are at their worst; and they are a nuisance
to camp, noisy and unclean. Their chief faults are lying and thieving; they are also apt to
desert, to grow discontented, to presume, and ever to ask for more. These qualities are admirably
developed in our headman, Toby Johnson, and his gang. I should not travel again with Krumen
on the Gold Coast.

Another of their remarkable characteristics is the fine union of the quarrelsome with the cowardly.
Like the Wányamwezi of East-Central Africa, they will fight amongst themselves, and fight furiously;
but they feel no shame in telling their employers that they sell their labour, not their lives;
that man can die but once; that heads never grow again, and that to battling they prefer going
back to 'we country.' If a ship take fire all plunge overboard like seals, and the sound of
a gun in the bush makes them run like hares. Yet an English officer actually proposed to recruit
a force of these recreants for field-service in Ashanti. He probably confounded them with the
Wásawahili, the 'Seedy-boys' of the east coast, a race which some day will prove useful when
the Sepoy mutiny shall repeat itself, or if the difficulties in Egypt be prolonged. A few thousands
of these sturdy fellows would put to flight an army of hen-hearted Hindús or Hindís.

We left Cape Palmas at 5 P.M., and duly respected the five-fathom deep 'Athole Rock,' so called
from the frigate which first made its acquaintance. The third victim was the B. and A. s.s.
Gambia (Captain Hamilton). [Footnote: Curiously enough a steamer carrying another fine of palm-oil
has come to grief, owing, as usual, to imperfect charts.] She was carrying home part of the
400 puncheons exacted, after the blockade of 1876, by way of fine, from Gelelé, King of Dahome,
by the senior naval officer, Captain Sullivan, the Dhow-chaser. The Juju-men naturally declared
that their magic brought her to such notable grief.

We then passed Grand Tabú (Tabou), in the middle of the bay formed by Point Tahou--a coast
better known fifty years ago than it is now. The only white resident is Mr. Julio, who has
led a rather accidented life. A native of St. Helena, he fought for the Northerners in the
American war, and proved himself a first-rate rifle-shot. He traded on the Congo, and travelled
like a native far in the interior. Now he has married a wife from Cape Palmas, and is the leading
man at Tabú.

This place, again, is a favourite labour-market. The return of the Krumen repeats the spectacles
of Sinou, and war being here chronic, the canoe-men come off armed with guns, swords, and matchets.
After a frightful storm of tongues, and much bustle but no work, the impatient steamer begins
to waggle her screw; powder-kegs and dwarf boxes are tossed overboard, and every attention
is bestowed upon them; whilst a boy or two is left behind, either to swim ashore or to find
a 'watery grave.'

Presently we sighted the bar and breakers that garnish the mouth of the Cavally (Anglicè Cawally)
River: the name is properly Cavallo, because it lies fourteen miles, riding-distance, from
Cape Palmas. Here Bishop Payne had his head-quarters, and his branch missions extended sixty
miles up-stream. On the left bank, some fifteen or sixteen miles from the embochure, resides
the 'Grand Devil,' equivalent to the Great God, of Krúland. The place is described as a large
caverned rock, where a mysterious 'Suffing' (something) answers, through an interpreter, any
questions in any tongue, even English, receiving, in return for the revelations, offerings
of beads, leaf-tobacco, and cattle, which are mysteriously removed. The oracle is doubtless
worked by some sturdy knave, a 'demon-doctor,' as the missionaries call him, who laughs at
the beards of his implicitly-believing dupes. A tree growing near the stream represents 'Lot's
wife's pillar;' some sceptical and Voltairian black was punished for impious curiosity by being
thus 'translated.' Skippers who treated their 'boys' kindly were allowed, a score of years
ago, to visit the place, and to join in the ceremonies, even as most of the Old Calabar traders
now belong to the 'Egbo mystery.' But of late years a village called Hidya, with land on both
banks, forbids passage. Moreover, Krumen are not hospitable. Masters and men, cast ashore upon
a coast which they have visited for years to hire hands, are stripped, beaten, and even tortured
by women as well as by men. The savages have evidently not learnt much by a century's intercourse
with Europeans.

Leaving Cavally, the last place where Kruboys can be shipped, we coasted along the fiery sands
snowed over with surf and set in the glorious leek-green growth that distinguishes the old
Ivory Coast. The great Gulf Stream which, bifurcating at the Azores, sweeps southwards with
easting, now sets in our favour; it is, however, partly a wind-current, and here it often flows
to the west even in winter. The ever-rolling seas off this 'Bristol coast' are almost clear
of reef and shoal, and the only storms are tornadoes, which rarely blow except from the land:
from the ocean they are exceedingly dangerous. Such conditions probably suggested the Bristol
barque trade, which still flourishes between Cape Palmas and Grand Bassam. A modern remnant
of the old Bristolian merchant-adventurers, it was established for slaving purposes during
the last century by Mr. Henry King, maintained by his sons, Richard who hated men-of-war, and
William who preferred science, and it is kept up by his grandsons for legitimate trade.

The ships--barques and brigs--numbering about twenty-five, are neat, clean, trim craft, no
longer coppered perpendicularly [Footnote: Still occurs sometimes: the idea is that as they
roll more than they sail less strain is brought on the seams of the copper.] instead of horizontally
after the older fashion. Skippers and crews are well paid for the voyage, which lasts from
a year to fifteen months. The floating warehouses anchor off the coast where it lacks factories,
and pick up the waifs and strays of cam-wood, palm-oil, and kernels, the peculiar export of
the Gold Coast: at times a tusk or a little gold-dust finds its way on board. The trader must
be careful in buying the latter. Not only have the negroes falsified it since the days of Bosnian,
but now it is made in Birmingham. This false dust resists nitric acid, yet is easily told by
weight and bulk; it blows away too with the breath, whilst the true does not. Again, the skippers
have to beware of 'fetish gold,' mostly in the shape of broken-up ornaments of inferior ley.

The Bristolians preserve the old 'round trade,' and barter native produce against cloth and
beads, rum and gin, salt, tobacco, and gunpowder. These ship-shops send home their exports
by the mail-steamers, and vary their monotonous days by visits on board. They sail home when
the cargoes are sold, each vessel making up her own accounts and leaving 'trust,' but no debts.
The life must be like making one's home in a lighthouse, plus an eternal roll; and the line
gives a weary time to the mail-steamers, as these never know exactly where the Bristol barques
will be found.

After hugging the coast and prospecting Biribi, we sighted the Drewins, whose natives are a
powerful and spirited race, equally accustomed to either element. There are no better canoe-men
on the coast. They ship only on board the Bristol ships, and they have more than once flogged
a cruel skipper caught ashore. Passing King George's Town, we halted (11 A.M., January 23)
opposite the river and settlement of Fresco, where two barques and a cutter were awaiting supplies.
Fresco-land is beautified by perpendicular red cliffs, and the fine broad beach is feathered
with cocoas which suggest kopra--the dried meat of the split kernel. At 3.15 P.M. came Grand
Lahou--Bosman's Cabo La Hoe--180 miles from Cape Palmas. The native settlements of nut-brown
huts in the clearings of thick forests resemble heaps of withered leaves. The French have re-occupied
a fort twenty miles up the pretty barless river, the outlet of a great lagoon; it was abandoned
during the Prusso-Gallic war. Nine Bristol barques were lying off Three Towns, a place not
upon the chart, and at Half-Jack, 205 miles from the Cape. Here we anchored and rolled heavily
through the night, a regular seesaw of head and heels. Seamen have prejudices about ships,
pronouncing some steady and others 'uncommon lively.' I find them under most circumstances
'much of a muchness.'

The next morning carried us forty miles along the Bassam country and villages, Little, Piccaninny,
and Great, to Grand Bassam. It is a regular lagoon-land, whose pretty rivers are the outlets
of the several sweet waters and the salt-ponds. Opposite Piccaninny Bassam heads, with its
stalk to the shore and spreading out a huge funnel eastward and westward, the curious formation
known as the 'Bottomless Pit.' The chart shows a dot, a line, and 200 fathoms. In these days
of deep-sea soundings I would recommend it to the notice of the Hydrographic Office. We know
exactly as much about it in A.D. 1882 as in A.D. 1670, when Ogilvy wrote, 'Six miles beyond
Jak, in Jakko, [Footnote: Bosman's Jaqui-Jaqui] is the Bottomless Pit, so called from its unfathomable
deepness, for the seamen, having Sounded with their longest Lines and Plummets, could never
reach the bottom.' It would be interesting to know whether it is an area of subsidence or a
volcanic depression. The adjacent Gold Coast suffers from terrible earthquakes, as Accra learnt
to her cost in 1862.

At 10 A.M. we made Grand Bassam, where the French have had a Résidence for many years. Here
the famous Marseille house of Régis Frères first made fortune by gold-barter. The precious
ore, bought by the middlemen, a peculiar race, from the wild tribes of the far interior, appears
in the shape of dust with an occasional small nugget; the traders dislike bars and ingots,
because they are generally half copper. We have now everywhere traced the trade from Gambia
to the Gold Coast, and we may fairly conclude that all the metal comes from a single chain
of Ghauts subtending the maritime region.

Grand Bassam is included in the French Côte d'Or, but not in the English Gold Coast, which
begins east of the Ivory Coast. The Dutch was even narrower, according to Bosnian: 'Being a
part of Guinea, it is extended about sixty miles, beginning with the Gold River (Assini) twelve
miles above Axim, and ending with Ponni, seven or eight miles east of Accra.' Grand Bassam
has only two European establishments. Eastward lies the 'Blockhouse' of M. Verdier, 'agent
of the Government at Assini,' so called from its battlemented roof. It is the old Fort Nemours,
built in 1843. The 'Poste,' abandoned during the war of 1870, was let to Messieurs Swanzy;
it is a series of ridge-roofs surrounded by a whitewashed stockade. Both have been freely accused
of supplying the Ashantis with arms and ammunition during the last war. Similarly the Gambia
is said to have supported the revolteds of Senegal. The site is vile, liable to be flooded
by sea and rain. The River Akbu or Komo (Comoe), with its spiteful little bar, drains the realms
of Amatifú, King of Assini. It admits small craft, and we see the masts of a schooner amid
the trees. The outlet of immense lagoons to the east and west, it winds down behind the factories,
and bears the native town upon its banks. Here we discharged only trade-gin, every second surf-boat
and canoe upsetting; the red cases piled upon the beach looked like a bed of rose-buds. The
whole of this coast, as far as Axim, is so dangerous that men land with their lives in their
hands. They disembark when outward-bound and re-embark when homeward-bound, and in the interim
they never tempt surf and sharks.

The Senegal left Grand Bassam at 5.30 P.M., to cover the eighty-five miles separating us from
our destination. The next important feature is the Assini River, also the outlet of enormous
navigable lagoons, breaking the continuity of forest-backed sands. It lies fourteen to fifteen
miles (which the chart has diminished to seven) west of the French settlement, of old Fort
Joinville. The latter shows a tiled and whitewashed establishment, the property of M. Verdier,
outlying the normal ant-hill of brown huts. In 1868 Winwood Reade here found a poste and stockade,
a park of artillery, a commandant, a surgeon, and a detachment of tirailleurs sénégalais levied
amongst the warlike Moslem tribes of Senegambia. Like Grand Bassam it was under the station
admiral, who inspected the two once a year, and who periodically sent a gunboat to support
French interests.

By night we passed New Town, not on the charts, but famed for owning a fine gold placer north
of the town-lagoon. After my departure from the coast it was inspected by Mr. Grant, who sent
home specimens of bitumen taken from the wells. Then came the two Assinis, eastern and western,
both places of small present importance. The 'Assini Hills' of the chart lie to the north,
not to the south of the Tando water; and by day one can easily distinguish their broken line,
blue and tree-clad. The Franco-English frontier has been determined after a fashion. According
to Mr. Stanford's last map, [Footnote: Gold Coast, November 20, 1873. A foot-note tells us,
'The whole coast belongs to the English, the French having withdrawn since 1870 from Grand
Bassam and Assini' (Winwood Reade). This is obsolete in 1882. The limits of Ashanti-land are
immensely exaggerated by this map.] the westernmost point was in west long. 2º 55' (G.) Thus
our territory begins between Great Assini and New Town, the latter being included in the Protectorate.
This position would reduce the old Gold Coast from 245 direct geographical miles of shore-line
between the River Assini (W. long. 3º 23') and the Volta mouth (E. long. 0º 42') to some 217
or 220 in round numbers. Inland the limit should be the Tando valley, but it has been fancifully
traced north from the Eyhi lagoon, the receptacle of the Tando, on a meridian of W. long. 2º
50' (G.) to a parallel of N. lat. 6º 30', or ninety-eight miles from the coast about Axim (N.
lat. 4º 52'). Thence it bends east and south-east to the Ofim, or western fork of the Bosom
Prah, and ascends the Prah proper, separating Ashanti-land (north) from Fanti-land (south).

It should be our object to acquire by purchase or treaty, or both, the whole territory subject
to Grand Bassam and Assini. The reasons may be gathered from the preceding pages.

By night we also passed Cape Apollonia and its four hummocks, which are faintly visible from
Axim. The name has nothing to do, I need hardly say, with Apollo or his feasts, the Apolloniæ,
nor has it any relationship with the admirable 'Apollinaris water.' It was given by the Portuguese
from the saint [Footnote: Butler's Lives gives 'S. Apollonia (not Appolonia, as the miners
have it), v.m. February 9.' This admirable old maid leaped into the fire prepared for her by
the heathen populace of Alexandria when she refused to worship their 'execrable divinity.'
There are also an Apollonius (March 5), 'a zealous holy anchorite' of Egyptian Antinous; and
Apollinaris, who about A.D. 376 began to 'broach his heresy,' denying in Christ a human soul.]
who presided over the day of discovery. In the early half of the present century the King of
Apollonia ruled the coast from the Assini to the Ancobra Rivers; the English built a fort by
permission at his head-quarters, and carried on a large trade in gold-dust. Meredith (1800)
tells us that, when his Majesty deceased, some twenty men were sacrificed on every Saturday
till the 'great customs' took place six months afterwards. The underlying idea was, doubtless,
that of Dahome: the potentate must not go, like a 'small boy,' alone and unattended to the
shadowy realm. The 'African Cruiser' [Footnote: Journal of an African Cruiser, by an officer
of the U.S. navy. Edited by Nathaniel Hawthorn. Aberdeen: Clark and Son, 1848.] speaks of the
royal palace being sumptuously furnished in European style; of gold cups, pitchers, and plates,
and of vast treasures in bullion. When the King died sixty victims were slain and buried with
their liege lord; besides a knife, plate, and cup; swords, guns, cloths, and goods of various
kinds. The corpse, smeared with oil and powdered cap-à-pié with gold-dust, looked like a statue
of the noble ore.

As the Senegal advanced under easy steam, we had no rolling off this roller-coast, and we greatly
and regretfully enjoyed the glorious Harmatan weather, so soon about to cease. The mornings
and evenings were cool and dewy, and the pale, round-faced sun seemed to look down upon us
through an honest northern fog. There was no heat even during the afternoons, usually so close
and oppressive in this section of the tropics. I only wished that those who marvelled at my
preferring to the blustering, boisterous weather of the Northern Adriatic the genial and congenial
climate of West Africa could have passed a day with me.

CHAPTER XV.

AXIM, THE GOLD PORT OF THE PAST AND THE FUTURE.

All the traveller's anxiety about the Known and apprehensions of the Unknown fell from him
like a garment as, after passing the hummocks of Apollonia, his destination, Axim, [Footnote:
The port lies in N. lat. 4º 52' 20" (say 5º round numbers) and in W. long. (Gr.) 2º 14' 45":
it must not be confounded, as often occurs in England, with 'Akim,' the region north of Accra.]
peeped up over the port-bow at dawn of the 25th of January.

The first aspect of Axim is charming; there is nothing more picturesque upon this coast.

After the gape of the Ancobra River the foreshore gradually bends for a few miles from a west-east
to a north-south rhumb, and forms a bay within a bay. The larger is bounded north by Akromasi
Point, the southern wall of the great stream; the bold foreland outlain with reefs and a rock
like a headless sphinx, is known from afar, east and west, by its 'one tree,' a palm apparently
double, the leader of a straggling row. On the south of the greater bay is Point Pépré, by
the natives called Inkubun, or Cocoanut-Tree, from a neighbouring village; like the Akromasi
foreland, it is black and menacing with its long projection of greenstone reefs, whose heads
are hardly to be distinguished from the flotilla of fishing canoes. The lesser bay, that of
Axim proper, has for limits Pépré and the Bosomato promontory, a bulky tongue on whose summit
is a thatched cottage.

The background of either bay is a noble forest, a wall of green, the items being often 150
feet high, with branchless white boles of eighty, perpendicularly striping the verdure. The
regular sky-line--broken by tall knolls and clumps, whose limits are rivulet-courses and bosky
dells; thrown up by refraction; flecked with shreds of heavy mist

    That like a broken purpose waste in air;

and dappled with hanging mists, white as snow, and 'sun-clouds,' as the natives term the cottony
nimbus--is easily mistaken, in the dim light of dawn, for a line of towering cliffs.

The sea at this hour is smooth as oil, except where ruffled by fish-shoals, and shows comparatively
free, today at least, from the long Atlantic roll which lashes the flat coast east of Apollonia.
Its selvage is fretted by green points, golden sands, and a red cove not unlike the crater-port
of Clarence, Fernando Po. The surface is broken by two islets, apparently the terminal knobs
of many reefs which project westward from the land. To the north rises Asiniba ('Son of Asini'),
a pyramid of rock below and tree-growth above. Fronting the landing-place is Bobowusúa, [Footnote:
The Hyd. Chart calls them Suaba and Bobowassi; it might be a trifle more curious in the matter
of significant words.] or Fetish Island, a double feature which we shall presently inspect.
The foreshore is barred and dotted perpendicularly by black reefs and scattered diabolitos,
or detached hard-heads, which break the surges. At spring-tides, when rise and fall reach at
least ten feet, and fourteen in the equinoctial ebb and flow, it appears a gridiron of grim
black stone. [Footnote: Not as the Hyd. Chart says--'rise and fall at springs six or seven feet.']

The settlement, backed by its grand 'bush' and faced by the sea, consists of a castle and a
subject town; it wears, in fact, a baronial and old-world look. Fort Santo Antonio, a tall
white house upon a bastioned terrace, crowns proudly enough a knob of black rock and low green
growth. On both sides of it, north and south, stretches the town; from this distance it appears
a straggle of brown thatched huts and hovels, enlivened here and there by some whitewashed
establishments, mining or 'in the mercanteel.' The soil is ruddy and rusty, and we have the
usual African tricolor.

The agents of the several Aximite houses came on board. We drained the normal stirrup-cup and
embarked in the usual heavy surf-boat, manned by a dozen leathery-lunged 'Elmina boys' with
paddles, and a helmsman with an oar. There are smaller surf-canoes, that have weather-boards
at the bow to fend off the waves. Our anchorage-place lies at least two miles south-west-and-by-south
of the landing-place. There is absolutely nothing to prevent steamers running in except a sunken
reef, the Pinnacle or Hoeven Rock. It is well known to every canoeman. Cameron sounded for
it, and a buoy had been laid by fishermen, but so unskilfully that the surge presently made
a clean sweep. Hence a wilful waste of time and work. I wrote to Messieurs Elder and Dempster,
advising them to replace it for their own interests and for the convenience of travellers;
but in Africa one is out of the world, and receiving answers is emphatically not the rule.

There is no better landing-place than Axim upon this part of the African coast. The surf renders
it impracticable only on the few days of the worst weather. We hugged the north of the Bobowusúa
rock-islet. When the water here breaks there is a clear way further north; the southern passage,
paved with rocks and shoals, can be used only when the seas are at their smoothest. A regular
and well-defined channel placed us on the shingly and sandy beach. We had a succulent breakfast
with Messieurs Gillett and Selby (Lintott and Spink), to whose unceasing kindness and hospitality
we afterwards ran heavily in debt. There we bade adieu to our genial captain and our jovial
fellow-travellers.

The afternoon was spent in visiting the Axim fort. Santo Antonio, built by the Portuguese in
the glorious days of Dom Manuel (1495-1521), became the Hollander Saint Anthony by conquest
in 1682, and was formally yielded by treaty to the Dutch West Indian Company. It came to us
by convention at the Hague; and, marked 'ruined' in the chart, it was repaired in 1873 before
the Ashanti war. It can now act harbour of refuge, and is safe from the whole power of the
little black despotism. Bosman [Footnote: Eerste Brief, 1737: the original Dutch edition was
lent to me by M. Paulus Dahse.] shows 'Fort St. Antonio' protected by two landward bastions
and an old doorway opening upon a loopholed courtyard. Barbot (1700) sketches a brick house
in gable-shape, based upon a triangular rock.

Passing the Swanzy establishment, a model board-house, with masonry posts, a verandah all round,
and a flying roof of corrugated iron, we ascend the old paved ramp. Here we remark that the
castle-gateway of the Dutch, leading to the outer or slave court, has been replaced by a mean
hole in the wall. The external work was demolished, lest the enemy effect a lodgement there.
We can walk seawards round the green knob scattered with black boulders, and pick an excellent
salad, a kind of African dandelion, which the carnivorous English miners called 'grass,'--with
a big, big D. Entering the hole in the wall, and passing through a solid arched gateway and
across a small court upon which the prison opens, we ascend the steps leading to the upper
work. This is a large square house, pierced in front for one door and three windows, and connected
by a bridge, formerly a drawbridge, with the two tall belvideres, once towers guarding the
eastern entrance. The body is occupied by the palaver-hall of the opper koopman (chief factor),
now converted into a court-house and a small armoury of sniders. It leads to the bedrooms,
disposed on three sides. The materials are trap, quartz, probably gold-bearing, and fine bricks,
evidently home-made. The substantial quarters fronting the sea are breezy, comfortable, and
healthy; and the large cistern contains the only good drinking-water in Axim. Life must be
somewhat dull here, but, after all, not so bad as in many an out-station of British India.
The chief grievance is that the inmates, the District-commissioner and his medico, are mere
birds of passage; they are ordered off and exchanged, at the will of head-quarters, often before
they can settle down, and always before they learn to take interest in the place. The works
consist of two bastions on the land side; a large one to the south-east, and a smaller to the
north-east. Seawards projects a rounded cavalier, fronted by dead ground, or rather water.
In the days of the Dutch the platforms carried '22 iron guns, besides some patteraroes.' Now
there are two old bronze guns, two 'chambeis' bearing the mark 'La Hague,' and an ancient iron
tube dismounted: a seven-pounder mountain-gun, of a type now obsolete, lurks in the shadows
of the arched gateway. I afterwards had an opportunity of seeing the ammunition, and was much
struck by a tub of black mud, which they told me was gunpowder. The Ashantis at least keep
theirs dry.

The dispensary appeared equally well found. For some weeks there was a native assistant; then
Dr. Roulston came, and, after a few days, was ordered off at a moment's notice to the remotest
possible station. He had no laudanum, no Dover's powders, no chlorodyne, no Warburg; and, when
treating M. Dahse for a burst vein, he was compelled to borrow styptics from our store. This
style of economy is very expensive. To state the case simply, officials last one year instead
of two.

The late Captain P. D. O'Brien, District-commissioner of Axim, did the honours, showing us
the only 'antiquity' in the place, the tomb of a Dutch governor, with a rudely cut inscription
set in the eastern wall:--

      WILLEM
    SCHOORWAS
  COMAD. OP AXEM
       1659.

Amongst the slave-garrison of twenty-five Hausás I found a Wadai-man, Sergeant Abba Osman,
who had not quite forgotten his Arabic. Several Moslems also appeared about the town, showing
that the flood of El-Islam is fast setting this way. They might profitably be hired as an armed
escort into the pagan interior.

Axim, preferably written by the Portuguese 'Axem,' was by them pronounced Ashim or Ashem: no
stress, therefore, must be laid upon its paper-resemblance with Abyssinian Axum. [Footnote:
I allude to The Guinea or Gold Coast of Africa, formerly a Colony of the Axumites (London,
Pottle and Son, 1880), an interesting pamphlet kindly forwarded to me by the author, Captain
George Peacock. I believe, as he does, that the West Coast of Africa preserves traces of an
ancient connection with the Nile valley and the eastern regions; but this is not one of them.]
Barbot calls it 'Axim, or Atzyn, or Achen.' The native name is Essim, which, in the language
of the Mfantse or Mfantse-fo (Fanti-race), means 'you told me,' and in the Apollonian dialect
'you know me.' These fanciful terms are common, and they allude to some tale or legend which
is forgotten in course of time. The date of its building is utterly unknown. The Fanti tradition
is that their race was driven coastwards, like their kinsmen the Ashantis, [Footnote: In Wanderings
in West Africa, (ii. 98) I have given the popular derivation of Fanti (Fan-didi = herb-eater)
and Asyanti (Sán-didi = corn-eater). Bowdich wrote 'Ashanti' because he learnt the word from
the Accra-men.] by tribes pressing down upon them from the north. They must have found the
maritime lands occupied, but they have preserved no notices of their predecessors. The port-town
became the capital of an upper factor, who ruled the whole coast as far as Elmina. It was almost
depopulated, say the old authorities, by long wars with the more powerful Apollonia; but its
commanding position has always enabled it to recover from the heaviest blows. It is still the
threshold of the western Gold-region, and the principal port of occidental Wásá (Wassaw).

We may fairly predict a future for Axim. The town is well situated to catch the sea-breeze.
The climate is equatorial, but exceptionally healthy, save after the rainy season, which here
opens a month or six weeks earlier than on the leeward coast. The downfall must, however, have
diminished since the times when 'the blacks will tell you the wet weather lasts eleven months
and twenty-nine days in the year.' The rains now begin with April and end in September. The
position is south of the thermal equator (22º R. = 81 5º F.), which runs north lat. 6º on the
western coast, 15º in the interior, and 10º on the eastern seaboard. [Footnote: Berghaus, following
Humboldt, places the probable equator of temperature (80º 16') in N. lat. 4º, or south of Axim,
rising to N. lat. 13º in Central and in Eastern Africa] Add that the average daily temperature
is 75º-80º (F.), rising to 96º in the afternoon and falling after midnight to 70º, and that
the wet season on the seaboard is perhaps the least sickly. We were there in January-March,
during an unusually hot and dry season, following the Harmatan and the Smokes and preceding
the tornadoes and the rains; yet I never felt an oppressive day,--nothing worse than Alexandria
or Trieste in early August. The mornings and evenings were mostly misty; the moons were clear
and the nights were tolerable. An excessive damp, which mildews and decays everything--clothes,
books, metals, man--was the main discomfort. But we were living, as it were, in the open, and
we neglected morning and evening fires. This will not be the case when solid and comfortable
houses shall be built. The improvement of lodging and diet accounts for the better health of
Anglo-Africans, as of Anglo-Indians, in the present day. Our predecessors during the early
nineteenth century died of bad shelter, bad food, and bad drink.

The town, built upon a flat partly formed by cutting away the mounds and hillocks of red clay,
was well laid out by Mr. Sam, the District-commissioner, after its bombardment during the Ashanti
war. The main streets, or rather roads, running north-south, are avenued with shady Ganian
or umbrella figs. I should prefer the bread-tree, which here flourishes. These thoroughfares
are kept clean enough, and nuisances are punished, as in England. Cross lines, however, are
wanted; the crooked passages between the huts do not admit the sea-breeze. Native hovels, also,
should be removed from the foreshore, which, as Admiralty property, ought to be kept for public
purposes. The native dwellings are composed of split bamboo-fronds (Raphia vinifera), thatched
with the foliage of the same tree. They are mere baskets--airy, and perhaps too airy. Some
are defended against wind and wet by facings of red swish; a few, like that of the 'king' and
chief native traders, are built of adobes (sun-dried bricks), whitewashed outside. Of this
kind, too, are the stores and the mining establishments; the 'Akankon House,' near the landing-place;
the 'Gold Coast House,' in the interior; the Methodist chapel, a barn-shaped affair; the Effuenta
House to the north, and the Tákwá, or French House, to the south.

'Sanitation,' however, is loudly called for; and if cholera come here it will do damage. The
southern part of the narrow ledge bearing the town, and including the French establishment,
is poisoned by a fetid, stagnant pool, full of sirens, shrimps, and anthropophagous crabs,
which after heavy rains cuts a way through its sand-bar to the sea. This marigot is the 'little
shallow river Axim,' the Achombene of Barbot, which the people call Awaminísu ('Ghost's or
Deadman's Water'). To the north also there are two foul nullahs, the Eswá and the Besáon, which
make the neighbourhood pestilential. In days to come the latter will be restored to its old
course east of the town and thrown into the Awaminísu, whose mouth will be kept open throughout
the year. The eastern suburbs, so to call them, want clearing of offal and all manner of impurities.
Beyond the original valley of the Besáon the ground rises and bears the wall of trees seen
from the offing. There is, therefore, plenty of building-room, and long heads have bought up
all the land in that direction. Mr. Macarthy, of the School of Mines, owns many concessions
in this part of the country.

All the evils here noted can easily be remedied. As in the Cairo of Mohammed Ali's day, every
house-holder should be made responsible for the cleanliness of his surroundings. The Castle-prison,
too, rarely lodges fewer than a dozen convicts. These men should be taken away from 'shot-drill'
and other absurdities of the tread-mill type, which diversify pleasant, friar-like lives of
eating and drinking, smoking, sleeping, and chatting with one another. Unfortunately, humanitarianism
does not allow the lash without reference to head-quarters. Labour must therefore be light;
still it would suffice to dig up the boulders from the main thoroughfares, to clean the suburbs,
and to open the mouths of the fetid and poisonous lagoons.

Mr. William M. Grant, the clever and active agent of our friend Mr. James Irvine, came on board
to receive us, and housed us and our innumerable belongings in his little bungalow facing 'Water
Street.' We found life at Axim pleasant enough. Even in these days of comparative barbarism,
or at best of incipient civilisation, the station is not wholly desert. The agents of the several
firms are hospitable in the extreme. Generally also a manager of the inner mines, or a new
comer, enlarges the small circle. There is a flavour of England in 'A. B. and Co., licensed
dealers in wine and spirits, wholesale and retail,' inscribed upon boards over the merchants'
doors; also in the lawn-tennis, which I have seen played in a space called by courtesy a square:
Cameron, by-the-bye, has hired it, despite some vexatious local opposition, and it will be
a fine locale for the Axim Hotel now being opened. Sunday is known as a twenty-four hours of
general idleness and revelry: your African Christian is meticulous upon the subject of 'Sabbath;'
he will do as little work as possible for six days, and scrupulously repose upon the seventh.
Whether he 'keeps it holy' is quite another matter, into which I do not care to enquire. Service-
and school-hours are announced by a manner of peripatetic belfry--a negroling walking about
with a cracked muffin-bell. From the chapel, which adjoins some wattled huts, the parsonage,
surges at times a prodigious volume of sound, the holloaing of hymns and the bellowing of anthems;
and, between whiles, the sable congregation, ranged on benches and gazing out of the windows,
'catches it 'ot and strong' from the dark-faced Wesleyan missionary-schoolmaster.

We were never wearied of the 'humours' of native Axim. The people are not Fantis, but Apollonians,
somewhat differing in speech with the Oji; both languages, however, are mutually intelligible.
[Footnote: Oji is also written Otschi, Tschi, Chwee, Twi, Tswi, Otyi, Tyi, or whatever German
ingenuity can suggest. I can hardly explain why the late Keith Johnston (Africa) calls the
linguistic family 'Ewe' (Ewhe, or properly Whegbe), after a small section of the country, Dahome,
Whydah, &c. He was probably led to it by the publications of the Bâle and other German missions.]
The men are the usual curious compound of credulity and distrust, hope and fatalism, energy
and inaction, which make the negro so like the Irish character. But we must not expect too
much from the denizens of African seaports, mostly fishermen who will act hammock-bearers,
a race especially fond of Bacchus and worshippers of the 'devil Venus.' Perhaps a little too
much license is allowed to them in the matter of noisy and drunken 'native customs,' palavers,
and pow-wows. They rarely go about armed; if you see a gun you know that the bearer is a huntsman.
They are easily commanded, and, despite their sympathies with Ashanti-land, they are not likely
to play tricks since their town was bombarded. In the villages they are civil enough, baring
the shoulders, like taking off the hat, when they meet their rulers. Theirs, also, is the great
virtue of cleanliness; even when the mornings are coldest you see them bathing on the beach.
They are never pinched for food, and they have high ideas of diet. 'He lib all same Prince;
he chop cow and sheep ebery day, and fowl and duck he be all same vegeta'l.' They have poultry
in quantities, especially capons, sheep with negro faces like the Persian, dwarf milch-goats
of sturdy build, dark and dingy pigs, and cattle whose peculiarity it is to be either black
or piebald. The latter are neat animals like the smallest Alderneys, with short horns, and
backs flat as tables. There are almost as many bulls as there are cows, and they herd together
without fighting. Being looked upon as capital, and an honour to the owner, they are never
killed; and, although the udders of cows and goats are bursting with milk, they are never milked.

The women differ very little from their sisters of the Eastern Gold Coast. You never see beauty
beyond the beauté du diable and the naïve and piquant plainness which one admires in a pug-pup.
The forms are unsupported, and the figure falls away at the hips. They retain the savage fashion
of coiffure shown in Cameron's 'Across Africa,' training their wool to bunches, tufts, and
horns. The latter is the favourite; the pigtails, which stand stiff upright, and are whipped
round like pricks of tobacco, may number half a dozen: one, however, is the common style, and
the size is said to be determined by a delicate consideration. Opposed to this is the highly
civilised atufu, 'kankey,' or bussle, whose origin is disputed. Some say that it prevents the
long cloth clinging to the lower limbs, others that it comes from a modest wish to conceal
the forms; some make it a jockey-saddle for the baby, others a mere exaggeration of personal
development, an attempt to make Aphrodite a Callipygé. I hold that it arose, in the mysterious
hands of 'Fashion,' from the knot which secures the body-cloth, and which men wear in front
or by the side. Usually this bussle is a mere bundle of cloth; on dress occasions it is a pad
or cushion. I had some trouble to buy the specimen, which Cameron exhibited in London.

Men and women are vastly given to 'chaffing' and to nicknaming. Every
child, even in the royal houses, takes a first name after the week-day
[Footnote:
                                Men.                Women.
  Adwo (Monday-born)     ...  Kajo (Cuddjo)  ...  Adwoa.
  Bena (Tuesday-born)    ...  Kwábina        ...  Abiena.
  Wuku (Wednesday-born)  ...  Kwáko          ...  Akudea.
  Tan (Thursday-born)    ...  Kwáo           ...  Yá (Yawá).
  Afio (Friday-born)     ...  Kofi (Coffee)  ...  Afuá.
  Amu (Saturday-born)    ...  Kwámina        ...  Amma.
  Ayisi (Sunday-born)    ...  Kwasi          ...  Akosúa (Akwasiba).

Monday is the first day of the Oji week. The Sunday-born is corrupted to 'Quashy,' well known
in the United States; hence also the 'bitter cup' of guassia-wood. The names of the days are
taken from the seven Powers which rule them. Kwa-Si would be Kwá (=akoa, man, slave), and Ayisi
(a man) belonging to Ayisi. Amongst the Accra people the first-born are called Téte (masc.)
and Dede (fem.), the second Tété and Koko, and the rest take the names of the numerals. So
we have Septimus, Decimus, &c.] of its birth, and strangers after that on which they land.
Cameron, who shaved his hair, was entitled 'Kwábina Echipu'--Tuesday Baldhead. I became Sásá
Kwési (Fetish Sunday), from a fancied clerical appearance, Sásá being probably connected with
Sásábonsam, 'a huge earth-demon of human shape and fiery hue.' He derives from asase ('earth'),
and abonsam, some evil ghost who has obtained a permanent bad name. Missionaries translate
the latter word 'devil,' and make it signify an evil spirit living in the upper regions, or
our popular heaven, and reigning over Abonsamkru, the last home of souls, or rather shades
of the wicked. Thus sasabonsam would be equivalent to Erdgeist, Waldteufel, or Kobold, no bad
nickname for a miner. The people have a wealth of legend, and some queer tale attached to every
wild beast and bird. In days to come this folk-lore will be collected.

The gorbellied children are the pests of the settlement. At early dawn they roar because they
awake hungry and thirsty; they roar during the day when washed with cold water, and in the
evening they roar because they are tired and sleepy. They are utterly spoiled. They fight like
little Britons; they punch their mothers at three years of age; and, when strong enough, they
'square up' to their fathers.

The first mining business we had to transact was with Kwámina Blay, of Attabo, Ahin (Ahene)
or King of Amrehía, Western Apollonia. He came to visit us in state on January 28. The vehicle,
a long basket, big enough to lodge a Falstaff, open like a coffin, and lined with red cloth
to receive the royal person and gold-hilted swords, was carried stretcher-fashion by four sturdy
knaves. King Blay is an excellent man, true and 'loyal to the backbone;' but his Anglo-African
garb was, to say the least, peculiar. A tall cocked hat, with huge red and white plume, contrasted
with the dwarf pigtail bearing a Popo-bead, by way of fetish, at the occiput. His body-dress
was a sky-blue silk, his waist-cloth marigold-yellow, and he held in hand the usual useless
sword of honour, a Wilkinson presented to him for his courage and conduct in 1873-1874. The
Ashanti medal hung from his neck by a plaited gold chain of native Trichinopoly-work, with
a neat sliding clasp of two cannons and an empty asumamma, or talisman-case. The bracelets
were of Popo-beads and thick gold-wire curiously twisted into wreath-knots. Each finger bore
a ring resembling a knuckle-duster, three mushroom-like projections springing from each oval
shield.

Ahin Blay dismounted with ceremony, and was as ceremoniously received. His features are those
of the Fanti, somewhat darker than usual, and his expression is kindly and intelligent: though
barely fifty-five his head is frosty and his goatee is snowy. The visit was a state affair,
a copy in small of Ashanti and Dahome.

On the left, the place of honour, sat the 'King's father,' that is, eldest uncle on the female
side, evidently younger than his nephew: the language makes scanty difference between the relationships,
and here, as in other parts of Africa, the ruler adopts a paternity. Six elders, safahins and
panins, [Footnotes: The 'Opanyini' (plur. of 'Opanyin') are the town-elders forming the council
of the Ahin (king) or Caboceer, each with his own especial charge. The Safahin (Safohine or
Osafohene) is the captain of war; the Ofotosanfo is the treasurer; the Okyame is spy and speaker,
alias 'King's Mouf;' and the Obofo is the messenger, envoy, or ambassador. The system much
resembles that of the village-republics in Maráthá-land.] sat down, in caps and billycocks;
the other fifteen stood up bareheaded, including the 'King's Stick,' called further south 'King's
Mouf.' This spokesman, like the 'Meu-'minister of Dahome, repeated to his master our interpreter's
words; and his long wand of office was capped with a silver elephant--King Blay's 'totem,'
equivalent to our heraldic signs. So in Ashanti-land some caboceers cap their huge umbrellas
with the twidam, or leopard, the Etchwee, or panther, of Bowdich, [Footnote: Mission, &c.,
p. 230 (orig. fol.). The other two patriarchal families which preside over the eight younger
branches, making a total of twelve tribes, are the Ekoana (Quonna), from eko (a buffalo), and
the Essona, from esso (a bush-cat).] and others are members of the Intchwa, or dog-division.
These emblems denote consanguineous descent, and the brotherhood (ntwa) of the 'totems' is
uniformly recognised. Our guest's particular ambition is a large state-umbrella, capped with
a silver elephant carrying in trunk a sword. He presently received one sent, at my request,
by Mr. Irvine.

Amongst the elders were scattered small boys, relations of the headmen. They were all eyes
and ears, and in Fanti-land they are formally trained to make the best of spies. When you see
a lad lounging about or quietly dozing within ear-shot you know at once his mission.

The notable parts of the suite were the swordbearers and the band. The former carried five
afõa, peculiar weapons, emblems of royalty. The blades are licked when swearing; they are despatched
with messengers as a hint to enforce obedience; and they are held, after a fashion, to be holy.
I have never seen more conventional, distorted, and useless weapons. Three blades showed the
usual chopping-bill shape, pierced, like fish-slicers, with round, semicircular, and angular
holes. One, measuring twenty-three inches and three-quarters, was leaf-formed, dotted with
a lozenge-pattern and set with copper studs. Another was partially saw-toothed. All were of
iron, rusty with the rust of years and hardly sharp enough to cut a pat of butter. The impossible
handles were worthy of the blades, bulging grips between two huge balls utterly unfitted for
handling; four were covered with thin gold-plate in repoussé work, and one with silver. The
metal was sewn together with thin wire, and the joints had been hammered to hide them. Cameron
sketched them for my coming 'Book of the Sword;' and Ahin Blay kept his promise by sending
me a specimen of the weapon with two divergent blades used to cut off noses and ears. Bowdich
[Footnote: Mission, &c., p. 312] mentions finely-worked double blades springing parallel from
a single handle; here nothing was known about them.

The band consisted of two horns and three drums. Of the latter one was sheathed in leopard-skin
and rubbed, not struck, with two curved sticks. A second was hourglass-shaped; the sticks were
bent to right angles, and the drummer carried, by way of cymbal, a small round iron plate adjusted
to the fingers with little rings loosely set in the edge. The horns were scrivelloes, elephant-tusks
of small size. At times a horrid braying denoted the royal titles, and after every blast the
liege lord responded mechanically, 'Kwámina Blay! atinásu marrah' (Monday Blay! here am I).

Interviews with African 'kings' consist mainly of compliments, 'dashes' (presents or heave-offerings),
and what is popularly called 'liquoring up.' Gifts are a sign of affection; hence the proverb,
'If anyone loves you he will beg of you.' Money, however, is considered pay; curiosities are
presents, and drink is 'dash.' The 'drinkitite' these men develope is surprising; they swallow
almost without interval beer and claret, champagne and shandigaff, cognac, whisky, and liqueurs.
Trade-gin, [Footnote: This article is made at Hamburg by many houses; the best brand is held
to be that of Van Heyten, and the natives are particular about it. The prime cost of a dozen-case,
each bottle containing about a quart, fitted with wooden divisions and packed with husks, chaff,
or sawdust, is 3s. 6d.; in retail it is sold for 6s., or 6d. per bottle. Strange to say, it
has the flavour of good hollands. The latter, however, in small bottles is always to be bought
on the Gold Coast, and can be drunk with safety.] being despised, is turned over to the followers.
Before entering upon this time-wasting process I persuaded the Ahin and panins to sign the
document enabling me formally to take possession of the 'Izrah Mine.' The paper was duly attested
and witnessed; and the visit ended with a royal 'progress' to the fort, where the District-commissioner
did the rest of the needful.

Next day the King made a friendly call without basket or band. His cocked hat was exchanged
for a chimney-pot so 'shocking bad' that no coster would dare to don it. Such is the custom
of the chiefs, and if you give them a good tile it goes at once into store. He made us promise
a return-visit and set out to collect bearers.

Hereabouts a week is as a day. Whilst carriage was collecting we inspected the neighbourhood
of Axim. Our first visit was to Bobowusúa island, a 'fetish place for palavers,' where the
natives object to guns being fired. Here it was that Admiral van Ruyter built his battery of
twelve cannons and forced Fort Santo Antonio to surrender on January 19, 1642. The rock is
of trap, greenstone, or whinstone, which miners call iron-stone and Cornishmen 'blue elvan:'
this diorite, composed of felspar and the hardest hornblende, contains granular iron and pyrites
like silver. Some specimens are beautifully banded in onyx-fashion and revetted with 'spar'
(quartz) of many colours, dead-white and crystalline, red and yellow. We find the same trap
on the mainland. Near the smaller Akinim or Salt-pond village there is a mass threaded with
quartz-veins from north to south (1º 30'), bossed by granite dykes [Footnote: It is generally
believed that these granite injections have been cooled and consolidated deep below earth's
surface.] trending east-west (96º 50'), and traversed by a burnt vein striking 67º. From the
surf-boat we remarked that there were no sharks; apparently they shun coming within the reefs.
Our landing was not pleasant for the Krumen; the shallow bottom was strewed with rounded pebbles,
and the latter are studded with sharp limpets and corallines. We climbed round the seaward
bluff, fissured with deep narrow clefts, up which the tide-waves race and roar. Here the trap
has a ruddy hue, the salt water bringing out the iron. Corallines, now several feet above water,
clothed the boulders. This, corroborated by a host of other phenomena, argues a secular upheaval
of the island, and we find the same on the mainland. There were fragments of grey granite,
but not in situ; all had been washed from the continent, where it outlies all other formations.
Water-rolled bits of brickstone also appeared; and hence, probably, Dr. Oscar Lenz [Footnote:
Geolog. Karte von West-Africa. Gotha, Justus Perthes, 1882.] makes Axim and the neighbourhood
consist of rother Sandstein upon laterite.

Bobowusúa is a cabinet of natural history. The northern flank is ever wet with dew and spray;
the southern shows a little dry earth and sand. The latter in this and in other parts of the
islet is a medley of comminuted shells. We collected cowries of four kinds, large and small,
crabs and balani, lobsters and sea-urchins (erinacei) with short spines; diminutive rock-oysters
and a large variety with iridescent mother-o'-pearl, pink, red and yellow. The latter yields
a white seed-pearl, and here, perhaps, we might attempt to develope it into

    That great round glory of pellucid stuff,
    A fish secreted round a grain of grit.

A single snake-slough and an eight-ribbed turtle were found. The short, sandy neck of the eastern
knob is a playground for 'parson-crows' and scavengers (turkey-buzzards); hawks, kites, and
fish-eagles, white and black, while the adjacent reefs are frequented by gulls, terns, and
small cranes.

Above the rock-line is a selvage of low vegetation--ipom[oe]a, white and mauve-flowered; rushes
and tangle-grass, a variety of salsolaceæ, and the cyperus, whose stalk is used like the kalam,
or reed-pen, further east. These growths are filmed with spiders' webs, whose central shafts
lead to their nests. The highest levels, only a few feet above water, are grown with a dense
bush that wants the matchet. Here are remains of plantations, a little knot of bananas, a single
tall cocoanut, many young palms, and a few felled trunks overgrown with oysters. Europeans
have proposed to build bungalows on Bobowusúa, where they find fresh sea-air, and a little
shooting among the red-breasted ring-doves, rails, and green pigeons affecting the vegetation.
It appears to us a good place for mooring hulks. The steamers could then run alongside of them
and discharge cargo for the coming tramway, while surf-boats carrying two or three tons could
load for the Ancobra River.

The eastern or inner continuation of Bobowusúa is Poké islet, a similar but smaller block.
During spring-tides they are linked together and to the shore by reefs that stand up high and
dry. Poké is the rock where, according to Barbot, 'the negroes put their wives and children
when they go to war.' The tradition is that the Dutch mined it for silver. The metal is known
to exist in several places on and behind the coast, at Bosumato, upon the Ancobra River south
of 'Akankon,' and even at Kumasi. Besides, gold has not yet been found here unalloyed with silver.

I was fortunate in collecting from this part of Africa stone-implements before unknown to Europe.
My lamented friend Winwood Reade, [Footnote: The Story of the Ashantee Campaign (pp. 2-4 and
314). London, Smith and Elder, 1874.] one of those

    Peculiar people whom death has made dear,

was the first to bring them home from the eastern regions, Akwapim (Aquapim), Prahsu, and the
Volta River. Arrived at Axim, I nailed to the walls of our sitting-room a rough print showing
the faces and profiles of worked stones. The result was a fair supply from the coast both up
and down till I had secured thirteen. [Footnote: I read a paper upon these stone-implements
(July 11, 1882) before the Anthropological Society at the house of my friend, the President,
General A. Pitt-Rivers; and made over to him my small stock. It will find a home at Oxford,
with the rest of his noble anthropological collection, lately presented to the University.]
All were of the neolithic or ground type; the palæolithic or chipped was wholly absent, and
so were weapons proper, arrowpiles and spear-points.

Mr. Carr, the able and intelligent agent of Messieurs Swanzy, brought me sundry pieces and
furnished me with the following notes. The 'belemnites' are picked up at the stream-mouths
after freshets; but the people, like all others, call them 'lightning-stones' (osráman-bo)
or abonua, simply axe. They suppose the ceraunius to fall with the bolt, to sink deep in the
earth, and to rise to the surface in process of time. The idea is easily explained. All are
comparatively modern, and consequently thinly covered with earth's upper crust; this is easily
washed away by heavy rains; and, as thunder and lightning accompany the downfalls, the stones
are supposed to be the result.

The osráman-bo are used in medicine; they 'cool the heart;' and water in which they are steeped,
when given to children, mitigates juvenile complaints. One of my collections owes its black
colour to having been boiled in palm-oil by way of preserving its virtues; it resembles the
básanos of Lydian Tmolus; but the Gold Coast touchstone is mostly a dark jasper imported from
Europe. The substance of the thunder-stone is the greenstone-trap everywhere abundant, and
taking with age a creamy patina like the basalt of the Haurán. I heard, however, that at Abusi,
beyond Anamabo (Bird-rock), and other places further east worked stones of a lightish slaty
hue are common. About New Town and Assini these implements become very plentiful. Mr. S. Cheetham
informs me that the thinner hatchets, somewhat finger-shaped, are copied in iron by the peoples
of the Benin River. These expert smiths buy poor European metal and, like other West Africans,
turn out a first-rate tool.

Axim seems to have been a great centre of stone-manufacture. Mr. Carr showed us a dozen huge
boulders of greenstone, chiefly at the eastern angle of the wart that bears, in dangerous proximity
to his stores, his powder-magazine. The upper surfaces are scored and striped with leaf-shaped
grooves, formed like old Greek swords; some of them are three feet long by three inches wide
and three deep. I made a sketch of the place; Cameron photographed it, and on return carried
off a huge slice of the block, which is now in the British Museum. We afterwards found these
striated stones on the sea-ward face of St. Anthony Fort, in northern Axim, and on other parts
of the seaboard.

Axim, the gate of this El Dorado, has not yet much reason to thank England for ruling her.
A mean economy annually hoards from 20,000l. to 30,000l, [Footnote: In 1878 the revenue was
105,091l. and the expenditure 68,410l., and in other years the contrast was even greater. The
omniscient 'Whittaker' tells us that in 1879 the figures stood at 54,908l. income versus an
outlay of 46,281l.; and there was no debt.] forwarded to the colonial caisse, to be wasted
upon 'little wars,' and similar miseries, instead of being spent upon local improvements. The
unwholesome bush (the Dutch 'bosch') or wood, backed by the primæval forest, surges up to the
very doors. The little plank-bridges are out of repair, and the merchants will not supply the
Government with new boards, save for ready money; otherwise payment may be delayed for a year.
The highway to head-quarters, Cape Coast Castle, is a yellow thread streaking the green, a
hunter's path trodden in the jungle. For 16s. 6d. a private messenger goes to and returns from
the capital, a distance of eighty-two miles, in four or five days. The public post starts on
Wednesdays, halts without reason between Fridays and Mondays at Sekondi (Seecondee), and consumes
a week in the down-march. I have already noted the want of sanitation, the condition of the
ammunition, and the absence of medical stores. It moves one's sense of the absurd to compare
the desolate condition of the Goldland, which is to supply the money, with the civilised machinery
in England which is to work it, companies and syndicates, shares, debentures, and what not.

I have treated the subject of Axim with a minuteness that is almost 'porochial;' its future
importance must be my excuse. The next chapter will show that we are truly in the Land of Gold,
in an Old New California.

And now to conclude this unpleasant account with the good words of old Barbot: 'Axim, in my
opinion, is the most tempting of any on the coast of Guinea, taking one thing with another.
You have there a perpetual greenness, which affords a comfortable shade against the scorching
heat of the sun, under the lofty palm and other trees, planted about the village, with a sweet
harmony of many birds of several sorts perching on them. The walk on the low flat strand along
the seaside is no less pleasant at certain hours of the day; and from the platform of the fort
is a most delightful prospect of the ocean and the many rocks and small islands about it.'

CHAPTER XVI.

GOLD ABOUT AXIM, ESPECIALLY AT THE APATIM OR BUJIÁ CONCESSION.

Any one who has eyes to see can assure himself that Axim is the threshold of the Gold-region.
It abounds in diorite, a rock usually associated with the best paying lodes. After heavy showers
the naked eye can note spangles of the precious metal in the street-roads. You can pan it out
of the wall-swish. The little stream-beds, bone-dry throughout the hot season, roll down, during
the rains, a quantity of dark arenaceous matter, like that of Taranaki, New Zealand, and the
'black sand' of Australia, which collects near the sea in stripes and patches. The people believe
that without it gold never occurs; and, if they collect the common yellow sand, it is to extract
from it the darker material. If the stuff does not answer the magnet, it is probably schorl
(tourmaline), hornblende, or dark quartz. Strangers have often mistaken this emery-like rock
for tin, which occurs abundantly in the northern region. It is simply titaniferous iron, iserine,
pleonaste, ilmenite [Footnote: Or peroxide of iron, with 8 to 23 per cent, of blue oxide of
titanium.] and degraded itabirite, the iron and quartz formation so called in the Brazil; and
it is the same mineral which I found so general throughout the gold and silver fields of neglected
Midian. It is found striating white sandstone about Tákwá and other places in the interior.
The surface-stone is decomposed by the oxide of iron, and thus the precious dust with its ingrained
gold is dissolved and separated from it. At a greater depth the itabirite will be found solid;
and the occurrence of these oldest crystalline formations in large layers is a hopeful sign.
When Colonel Bolton was interested in the Gold Coast diggings I advised him to send for a few
tons of this metal, and to test it as 'pay-dirt.' A barrelful was forwarded from the coast
to the Akankon Company: it was probably thrown away without experiment.

At Axim, as at Cape Coast Castle and other parts of the shore, women may be seen gold-gathering
even on the sea-sands. They rarely wash more than 40 lbs., or a maximum of 50 lbs., per diem;
and they strike work if they do not make daily half a dollar (2s. 3d.) to two dollars. They
have nests of wooden platters for pans, the oldest and rudest of all mechanical appliances.
The largest, two feet in diameter, are used for rough work in the usual way with a peculiar
turn of the wrist. The smallest are stained black inside, to show the colour of gold; and the
finer washings are carried home to be worked at leisure during the night. This is peculiarly
women's work, and some are well known to be better panners than others; they refuse to use
salt-water, because, they say, it will not draw out the gold.

The whole land is impregnated with the precious metal. I find it richer in sedimentary gold
than California was in 1859. Immediately behind the main square of Axim a bank of red clay
leads eastward to a shallow depression, the old valley of the Besáon, a swamp during the rains
backed by rising and forested ground to the east. On the inland versant a narrow native shaft
has been sunk for gold by Mr. Sam, now native agent under Mr. Crocker. We pounded and panned
the rock, which yielded about twopence per 2 lbs., or one ounce to the ton. Observing its strike,
we concluded that it must extend through Mr. Irvine's property. Throughout the Gold Coast auriferous
reefs ran north-south, with easting rather than westing; the deviation varies from 5º west
to 15º-22º east; and I have heard of, but not seen, a strike of north-east (45º) to south-west.
This confirms the 'meridional hypothesis' of Professor Sedgwick, who stated, 'As some of the
great physical agencies of the earth are meridional, these agencies may probably, in a way
we do not comprehend, have influenced the deposit of metals on certain lines of bearing.' We
may also observe that all the great mineral chains of the old and new world are meridional
rather than longitudinal, striking from north-east to south-west. The geologist's theory, combined
with the knowledge that the noble metal is 'chiefly found among palæozoic rocks of a quartzose
type,' is practically valuable on the Gold Coast. Every mound or hillock of red clay contains
one or more quartz-reefs, generally outcropping, but sometimes buried in the subsoils. They
can always be struck by a cross-cut trending east-west. The dip is exceedingly irregular: some
lodes are almost vertical, and others quasi-horizontal.

We now take the main road leading to the Ancobra. After crossing the fetid Besáon by its ricketty
bridge of planks, we find on the right hand, facing Messieurs Swanzy's, a fine bit of rising
ground, which I shall call, after its proprietor, 'Mount Irvine.' Over the southern slope runs
a cleared highway, which presently becomes a 'bush-path;' it is named the 'Dudley Road,' after
an energetic District-commissioner. This is the first Tákwá line, whose length is described
to be about fifty miles, or four days' slow journey for laden porters. Mr. Gillett, who had
covered twenty-six (sixteen?) miles of it, describes the path as unbroken by swamps or streams.
Further north, according to the many native guides whom I questioned, travellers pass two rivulets,
and finally they are ferried over the Abonsá, or Tákwá River. The second road follows closely
the left bank of the Ancobra: it is used by the Hausá soldiers, but only in the heart of the
Dries, and it must be impassable during the Rains. Dr. J. Africanus B. Horton, who contributes
to a characteristic paper, [Footnote: The African Times, January 2, 1882. The paper is full
of inaccuracies; it begins by placing Tomento (Tumento) ninety-five miles (for thirty) along
the river-course from the mouth, and he makes steam-launches 'take from two to four days (say
one) to go up to it.'] has never heard of the former when he says 'from Axim to Taquah (Tákwá)
there is no direct route,' and he justly deprecates the latter. But he cries up the Bushua
or Dixcove-Tákwá line, upon which he has large concessions. I shall return to this subject
in a future chapter.

On the north side of Mount Irvine is a second nullah, the Eswá, which flows, like the Besáon,
through the dense growth of bush covering the eastern uplands. A few minutes' walk along the
right bank leads to a broadening of the bed, a swamp during the Rains and a field of cereals
in the Dries. Thence we plunge into the jungle, and after a couple of hundred yards come upon
signs of mining. In the Eswá bed, where the gulch is choked by two mounds or hillocks, appear
the usual 'women's washings,' shallow pits like the Brazilian catas, whence the pay-dirt has
been extracted. On the right bank, subtending the bed, their husbands have sunk the usual chimney-hole
to scratch quartz from the bounding-wall of the reef. These rude beginnings of shafts reach
a depth of 82 feet, and perhaps more. All are round, like the circular hut of the African savage;
similarly in Australia the first pits were circular or oval. They are descended in sweep-fashion
by means of foot-holes, and they are just large enough for a man to sit in and use his diminutive
tool. The quartz is sent up to grass by a basket, and carried to the hut. After a preliminary
roasting, the old custom of Egypt, it is broken into little bits and made over to the women,
who grind it down upon the cankey-stone which serves to make the daily bread. In some parts
of Africa this is men's work, and it is always done at night, with much jollity and carousing.

I named this place the 'Axim Reef.' It had been taken by Dr. J. Ogilby Ross, formerly district
medical officer, Axim, and now preparing to explore the regions behind the Ancobra sources.
He allowed, however, his prospecting term to elapse, and thus it has been secured by Mr. Grant
for Mr. J. Irvine. It taught us three valuable lessons.

1. Wherever catas, or 'women's washings,' are found, we can profitably apply the hydraulic
system of sluicing and fluming not by an upper reservoir only, but also from below by a force-pump.
Water is procurable at all seasons by means of Norton's Abyssinian tubes, [Footnote: The Egyptian
campaigners seem to have thought of these valuable articles somewhat late in the day. Yet two
years ago I saw one working at Alexandria.] and the brook-beds, dammed above and below, will
form perennial tanks. I am surprised that English miners on the Gold Coast have not borrowed
this valuable hint to wash from the people who have practised it since time immemorial. Wherever
we read, as on Mr. Wyatt's map, 'Gold-dust found in all these streams;' 'Natives dive for gold
in the dry,' and 'Old gold-shafts all along this track,' we should think of 'hydraulicking.'

2. The natives, here and elsewhere, prospect for and work the bank-reefs after the subtending
gutter-bed has proved auriferous. There is, however, no connection between the two, and the
precious metal in the subsoil is either swept down by the floods or washed out of the sides,
as we shall see on the Ancobra River.

3. The negroes, who ignore pumps and steam-navvies, have neglected the obvious measure of deep-digging
in all the stream-beds, where much detrital gold and even nuggets will assuredly be found.
This should be done either by shafting or by opening with 'steam-navvies' the whole course
of the channel during the 'Dries.'

Regaining the main road and passing towards the northern town, which is separated from southern
Axim by the fort and the grassy drill-ground, we cast a look at a heap of rotting cases at
last stored under a kind of shed. Though labelled 'Akim' by the ungeographical manufacturer,
they contain a board-house, with glass windows and all complete, intended for Axim, and eventually
for the District-commissioner, Tákwá. But, with a futility worthy of the futile African, certain
authorities at Head-quarters, after buying and landing the proposed bungalow, which probably
cost 500l., discovered that they could not afford the expense of sending it to its destination.
Consequently it was made over to the white ants, and it has now duly qualified for fuel.

At the end of the northern town a noble bombax notes the last resting-place of Europeans; and
on it hangs a tale deserving a place in 'Spiritualistic prints.' A certain M. Thiebaut, transport-manager
to the French Tákwá-Company, died at Axim, and was here buried in July 1881. Many persons,
including Mr. Grant's mother and wife, declare that they saw during broad daylight his 'spirit'
standing over his grave. And no wonder if he walked; a decent 'ghost' would feel unhappy in
such a 'yard,' then a receptacle for native impurities. We represented the case to Mr. Alexander
Allan, who succeeded poor Captain O'Brien, and that active and energetic 'new broom' at once
took steps to abate the nuisance. The 'ghost' has not been seen since its last home has been
surrounded by a decent paling and inscribed 'Ci-gît Thiebaut.' The same pious service was then
done for one of our countrymen, Mr. Crawford who died at Axim in the same year.

Leaving on the left a neat bungalow, the 'Effuenta House,' we see to seaward of it the wooded
knoll Bosomato. [Footnote: Abosom, Obosom or Bosom, vulg. Bossum, are imaginary beings, guardians
and so forth, worshipped by the people and called 'fetishes' by Europeans. The word 'fetish'
is properly applied only to charms, philters, amulets, and all that genus. See p. 78, Wit and
Wisdom from West Africa, London, Tinsleys, 1865.] Here a thatched hut shows where the late
M. Bonnat proposed to build a trading establishment, and to disembark his goods despite rock
and reef. A few yards further the road is crossed by the Breviya ('where life ends'), another
foul lagoon-stream, haunted by sirens and crossed by a corduroy-bridge. It leads to a village
of the same name, which the Anglo-African calls 'Stink-fish Town,' [Footnote: As usual it is
a translation; the natives call the preserve 'bomom,' from 'bon,' to stink.] alluding tersely
and picturesquely to its sun-dried produce.

From this knot of huts and hovels we turn sharp to the east, or inland, and presently enter
the Apatim or Bujiá concession, which has been leased for mining purposes to Mr. Irvine. There
is a shorter road further north, but it is barred, we were assured, by a bad swamp. Our path,
fairly open, ran up and down a succession of round-topped, abrupt-flanked hills, thrown together
without system, and showing no signs of a plateau. They are parted by creek-valleys, gulches,
and gullies, thick with tangled vegetation and varying in depth from a few feet to two and
even three hundred. Many of them carry water even in the driest season. The country is remarkably
like that behind Cape Coast Castle, where the Home Government, during the last Ashanti war
(1873-74), proposed to lay down a tramway.

The land is not heavily timbered, but there is wood sufficient for everyday purposes. Its chief
growth is the spiny bombax, whose timber is hardly durable enough for permanent shafting. Here,
however, and in all the mines upon and near the seaboard, carpenter-work should be imported
from England; it will be at once cheaper and better. The country is everywhere seamed with
reefs and ridges of naked quartz, beginning near the coast and striking in the right direction.
There must be many more underground, and all will be bared by 'washing' the country. Mr. R.
B. N. Walker, whose energy and enterprise obtained this, as well as other concessions, tells
me that during a second visit one of his company 'picked up two or three small pieces of quartz
showing "free gold" among the refuse around the native pits.'

We progressed slowly enough, as we delayed to botanise, to net butterflies, [Footnote: Our
large collection all came to grief, because we had neglected to carry camphor. The hint may
be useful to those who follow us.] and to shoot for specimens. The path crossed and recrossed
the Impima rivulet, which in parts was dammed and double-dammed; its bed of quartz-gravel and
red ironstone again suggested deep digging. After a two hours' stroll we traversed the snaking
course by a rude bridge, and presently came to the half-way plantation, Impatási: it is faced
by a dwarf clearing, and we noted a fine clump of bamboo-cane. The next village was Edu-Kru,
marked upon the maps 'Edu.' We then passed over the dry bed of the Bujiá wady, which looked
as 'fit' as the Impima; and, at about twenty-five yards north of the bed we breasted the rough
ascent of the Apatim Hill.

Here we turned to the right and found Mr. Grant's trial-shaft. It had been sunk amongst a number
of round holes dug by the native miner, and it appeared to us that they had been working the
southern butt-end of the eastern reef. He had preferred it to another pit sunk a little distance
from the centre by a man named Jones, whose venture yielded the poorest results. Cameron drew
my attention to the necessity of 'hydraulicking' this hill-side; and from three pounds of its
yellow clay, gathered at random, we washed about fourpence worth of gold-dust, upwards of 8l.
a ton. Other specimens assayed 1 oz. 13 dwts. and 13 grains. The quartz at a little lower than
a fathom had yielded poorly, [Footnote: Messieurs Johnson and Matthey found only 0.650 oz.
gold and 0.225 silver.] but better results were expected from a deeper horizon.

A few minutes of uphill-walk led us to the little Apatim village, our objective. We had spent
three hours and a half over a distance which would be easily covered in two. The march may
be about two and a half miles (direct geographical) from Axim, and five along the native path.
During the night my companion took a good observation of Castor and Pollux, and with the aid
of his chronometer laid down the position of the Apatim village at N. lat. 4º 55' and W. long.
(G.) 2º 14' 2". Consequently the nearest point from Central Axim is 2,200 yards, and 200 from
the shore. The north-western angle runs clean across the Ancobra River. [Footnote: Mr. Walker
wrote to me, 'I am inclined to believe that the concession will be found to extend to the River
Ankobra on the west and north-west sides. But I do not feel certain that this would be of any
material advantage, the distance from Axim by land being so short, and the road between that
port and the property being capable of improvement, so as to render transport a matter of small
expense.'] The concession measures 4,000 square yards, the centre being an old native shaft
a little north of the Bujiá bed. The quadrangle lies between N. lat. 4º 53' 56" and 4º 55'
56", and W. long. (G.) 2º 12' 48" and 2º 14' 48". The lease costs 12l. per annum, paid quarterly,
and 120l. when the works shall open. Its lessor had forbidden his fraudulent people to prospect
or to mine, because, as usual, they systematically robbed him of his royalty. This universal
practice has made the kings and chiefs throughout the country ready and even anxious to sell
mining-lands for small sums which will be paid honestly and regularly. They are also fully
alive to the prospective advantages of European staffs settling amongst them. Like them we
shall find the systematic dishonesty and roguery of the natives a considerable drawback; the
fellows know good stone at sight and can easily secrete it. The cure for this evil will be
the importation of labour, especially of Chinese labourers.

At Apatim, the name of the district as well as the village, we were civilly received by the
chief, Kwábina Sensensé. He is also lessor of the unfortunate Akankon concession, and his right
to sell or to let either of them has been seriously disputed. This practice, again, may lead,
unless checked, to serious difficulties. When the local government shall have established a
regular department and a staff of Gold-commissioners, every owner should be compelled legally
to prove his title to the land. West Africans know nothing of yards and fathoms; they have
hardly any words to express north or south. [Footnote: The four points are taken from the buried
body, the feet being to the east and the head lying west.] Consequently they will sell, either
wittingly or in their ignorance of dimension and direction, the same ground, or parts of it,
to two or three purchasers. Indeed, they would like nothing better, and consequently 'jumpers'
must be expected.

Sensensé is a dark man, apparently on the wrong side of fifty. His grizzly beard, grown comparatively
long, his closely-trimmed mustachios, and his head-cloth, worn like a turban, made me take
him at first sight for a Moslem. He has a cunning eye, which does not belie his reputation.
His fad is to take money and to do no work for it; he now wants us to pay for the clearing
of an uncleared path. The villagers fear him on account of certain fetish-practices which,
in plain English, mean poison; and he keeps up their awe by everywhere displaying the outward
signs of magic and sorcery. A man with this gift can rise at night when all sleep; cast off
his body like a snake's slough; become a loup-garou; shoot flames from eyes and ears, nose,
mouth, and arm-pits; walk with his head on the ground and kill man either by drinking his blood
or by catching his kra (umbra), which he boils and devours. Here the sign of 'fetish' is mostly
the koro, or pot full of rubbish. At Axim and Akankon we shall find our chief a mighty bore,
each visit being equivalent to a bottle of gin.

After a restful sleep in the cool and pleasant air of Apatim, we proceeded to visit the valley
east of the settlement, despite Sensensé's warning that the ground was 'fetish.' He had made
the same objection to M. Bonnat, his evident object being to keep the rich placer for private
use or for further sale. There are evil reports about the origin of the Frenchman's fatal illness
after disregarding this and similar warnings. The deep and steep-banked depression runs north-south,
and is apparently the head of the Bujiá stream. The vegetation, especially near the water,
which flows some 300 feet below the village, was exceedingly dense and tangled, except where
the ground had been cleared for bananas, maize, or ground-nuts. The bottom, especially at the
sharp corners, gave the idea of exceeding richness; and there were many old works apparently
deserted. The 'fetish-pot' stood everywhere, filled with oil, water, and palm-wine, leaves,
cowries, eggs, and all manner of filth. This stuff, stirred by the komfo diviner, answers questions
and enables man to soothsay. It also corresponds with the obeah of the West Indies, the ubio
of the Efik race, a charm put into the ground to hurt or kill. How hot the rich hole was! What
a perspiration and what a thirst came out of the climb!

In the evening we walked about half a mile to the south-west of the village, and prospected
the central shaft, whence the measurements were made. Here it is sunk in a western reef, palpably
running parallel with the eastern, which we first inspected. And this visit gave us a fair
idea of the property. It consists of at least three ridges of clay running from north to south,
and each containing one or more meridional walls of quartz. Some of the latter may turn out
to be 'master lodes.'

I regret that this fine Apatim concession was not thrown into the market before the so-called
'Izrah.' The distance from Axim to the mining-ground is so small that provisions and machinery
could be transported for a trifle. The village lies 220 feet above sea-level; and a hillock
in its rear, perhaps 80 feet higher, commands a noble view, showing Axim Bay: it could be used
as a signal-station. The rise is a fine, healthy position for the dwellings to be occupied
by the European staff, and in such air white men could work for years.

Moreover, the short distance from the shore offers peculiar advantages for 'hydraulicking.'
Flumes and sluices could carry the golden subsoil to the sea and discharge it into a series
of tanks and cisterns, which would be cradled for 'pay-dirt.' Finally, it will be easy to baffle
the plundering negro workman by sending all stone containing free gold to be worked in England,
where superior appliances extract more than enough to pay transport-costs. Indeed, it is a
question with me whether, despite great expenses, reduction at home even of inland produce
will not be found preferable. [Footnote: Mr. C. H. Creswick, of the Gold Coast Mining Company,
kindly drew up for me the following table of expenses from Abontiyakon (his diggings) to England,
and the costs of reducing a ton of ore.

l   s.  d. 3   15   0   canoe-transport to the Abonsá River. 1   10   0   Abonsá to Axim by
a boat of thirteen hands carrying five tons 0    3   6   landing at Axim and shipping on board
steamer. 1   15   0   freight and landing charges at Liverpool. 0   15   0   carriage to reduction-works.
2   12   6   costs of reduction. ---------- 8   11   0   which practically would rise to 9l.
or 10l.

For local reduction Mr. Creswick calculates the outlay at 2l. per ton, including interest on
prime cost of machinery, allowance for wear and tear, and labour-pay.] This remark applies
only to rich ore; the poorer can be worked upon the spot.

We returned to Axim with the highest opinion of 'Apatim,' and I rejoiced to hear that the mine
will be opened without delay.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE RETURN--VISIT TO KING BLAY; ATÁBO AND BÉIN.

I spare my readers the slightest description of the troubles that attended our departure from
Axim on January 31. Briefly, we began loading at dawn and the loads were not headed before 10 A.M.

The black caravan, or rather herd, was mustered by its guide and manager, the energetic W.
M. Grant. His personnel consisted of seven Kruboys from Cape Palmas and forty-three Axim carriers,
who now demand eight and sixpence for a trip which two years ago cost a dollar. They stray
about the country like goats, often straggling over four miles. As bearers they are the worst
I know, and the Gold Coast hammock is intended only for beach-travelling. The men are never
sized, and they scorn to keep step, whilst the cross-pieces at either end of the pole rest
upon the head and are ever slipping off it. Hence the jolting, stumbling movement and the sensation
of feeling every play of the porters' muscles, which make the march one long displeasure. Yet
the alternative, walking, means fever for a new comer. On return we cut long bamboos and palm-fronds
and made the Krumen practise carrying, Hindu-fashion, upon the shoulder.

The rest of the moving multitude was composed of the servantry and the camp-followers. One
bouche inutile bore a flag, a second carried a gun, and so forth, the only principle being
to work as little as possible and to plunder all things plunderable. There were exceptions.
Joe (Kwasi Bedeh) of Dixcove, Cameron's old servant, who boasts of being a pagan, and who speaks
English, French, and Dutch, a handy and intelligent young fellow, who can cook, sew, carpenter,
or lead a caravan--in fact, can serve as factotum--and his accounts, marvellous to recount,
are honestly kept. I should want no better servant in these coast-countries and in exploring
the far interior. The cook, 'Mister Dawson,' of Axim, is a sturdy senior of missionary presence:
having been long employed in that line, he wears a white tie on Sundays, and I shrewdly suspect
him of preaching. A hard worker, beginning early and ending late, he is an excellent stuffer
of birds and beasts, and the good condition of our collection is owing entirely to him. His
son, Kwasi Yau (Sunday Joe), is a sharp 'boy' in the Anglo-Indian sense. The carpenter, our
model idler, who won't work and can't work, receives 3l. per mens., when $8 should be the utmost;
we cleared him out on return to Axim. Meanwhile he saunters about under an umbrella, and is
always missing when wanted for work.

Our companions and body-guards are Bianco and Nero, both bought by Cameron at L'pool for a
suspiciously trifling sum. The former is a small smooth-haired terrier, who dearly loves to
bark and bite, and who shows evident signs of early training in the cab-line. A dog with all
the manners of a doggess, he eventually found a happy home in the fort, Axim. The second, a
bastard Newfoundland with a dash of the bloodhound, and just emerging from puppyhood, soon
told us the reason why he was sold for a song. That animal was a born murderer; he could not
sight a sheep, a goat, or a bullock without the strongest desire to pull it down; therefore
he had been sold into slavery, African and old-English fashion, instead of being hanged. He
had fine qualities--obedience, fidelity, affection, a grand voice, and a ferocious presence.
All these good gifts, however, were marred by an over-development of destructiveness. He survived
his journeys by passing many of his hours in the water, and he was at last 'dashed' to Dr.
Roulston, of Tákwá.

We took once more the northern road to Brévia, or 'Stink-fish Town,' and crossed its tongue
of red clay bounded by the bed of the Anjueri stream. Here again appeared a large block of
greenstone deeply grooved by the grinder. Thence we debouched upon the surf-lashed shore, tripped
over by the sandpiper and the curlew and roped by the bright-flowered convolvulus. Streaks
of the auriferous black sand became more frequent and promising as we advanced.

We ran close to Akromasi, or One-tree Point, upon whose flat dorsum linger the bush-grown ruins
of a fort. It was named Elisa Cartago by its founders, the Portuguese, who were everywhere
haunted by memories of the classics. Bowdich [Footnote: Folio, p. 271.] is eminently in error
when he places the remains 'at the extreme navigable point of the river,' and opines that the
work was built by Governor Ringhaven (Ruyghaver), buried at Elmina in 1700. He was misinformed
by Colonel Starrenberg, a Dutch officer who canoed three days up the Bosom Prah River, a fact
probably unknown to Commodore Commerell. Bosman [Footnote: Letter I. 1737.] shows 'Elisa Cartago
op den Berg Ancober,' crowning the head of Akromasi Point, with a road leading up to the palisades
which protect the trade-houses. Lieutenant Jeekel, [Footnote: Map of the former Dutch possessions
on the Gold Coast (districts of Apollonia, Azim, Dixcove, Sekondi, Chama, and El-Mina), by
Lieut. C. A. Jeekel, Royal Dutch Navy. Lithographed at the Topographical Depôt of the War Office,
Major C. W. Wilson, R.R., Director, 1873. It extends only from the Ebumesu to the Sweet River
(Elmina) and up the Ancobra valley; and it is best known for the seaboard.] an excellent authority,
also places it at the river-mouth. According to some it was taken in early days by the French,
who still hold it. Captain Ellis has transferred to this site the story of Fort Eguira, an
inland, or rather up-stream, work, destroyed, as Dr. Reynhaut and others tell us, in an 'elendige
manier' (a piteous way).

The gallant Mynheer commanding fought the natives till his men were shot down, after using
'rock-gold' (nuggets) for bullets. He rolled sundry powder-barrels under the palaver-hall,
and stationed there a boy with a match to be applied when he stamped on the floor. He then
flung open the gates, hung out a flag of trace, and invited the bloodthirsty savages, who were
bent on killing him by torture, to take the hoard of gold for which the attack was made. When
all crowded the great room he reproached them with their greed of gain, gave the sign, and
blew them and himself into eternity. I am told by a good authority that the natives, whose
memories are tenacious on some points, will not show to strangers the ruins which cost their
forefathers so dear.

The last village on the sands is Kukakun, where the wreck of a schooner saddens the scene.
Within a few hundred yards of Akromasi we bent abruptly eastward and exchanged the sands for
the usual stiff soil of red clay. The gut is formed by the point-bluff and a southern block,
and the surface is covered with dense second-growth--pandanus, the false sugar-cane, ferns
large and small, and the sloth-tree, the Brazilian ubá or Preguiça, with tall, thin white trunk
and hanging palmated leaves. The African palm-birds (orioles of the Merulidæ family), whose
two colours, red (ntiblii) and golden yellow (enadsi), apparently divide them into as many
fighting factions, give a touch, a bright colour to the dulness, and chatter over their pensile
homes, which strangers would mistake for cocoa-nuts.

Severely hustled and horribly shaken up, we ran down the little valley of the Avin streamlet.
It comes from afar, heading, they say, in Abasakasu, a region where gold abounds. In three-quarters
of an hour we had cleared the four short miles which separate Axim from the Ancobra ferry.
This is the line of a future tramway, which will transport goods from the port to the river;
at present they must be shipped in bar-boats, which cost much and carry little. The ground
divides itself into three sections--the red clay north of Axim; the sands, whose green-grown
upper levels are fitted to support iron-pot sleepers; and the Avin valley, which debouches
upon the left bank of the Ancobra. The first and the last divisions are safe for creosoted
wood. My friend Mr. Russell Shaw would, I doubt not, take the contract for 4,000l., and a macadamised
cart-road could be made for 500l.

This would be the beginning of a much-wanted change. At present the prices of transport are
appalling. The French mines pay from 2l. to 2l. 10s. per ton from England to Axim; from Axim
to Tákwá, forty miles by river and thirty by land, costs them 600 francs (24l.) per ton. Moreover,
native hands are not always forthcoming.

The Ancobra River, the main artery and waterway of this region, must not be written after the
Jonesian or modern mode, 'Ankobra' and 'Ankober,' nor with Bosman 'Rio Cobre' (River of Copper).
It has evidently no connection with Abyssinian Ankober. To the native name, 'Anku' or 'Manku,'
the Portuguese added Cobra, expressing its snaky course. Bowdich, followed by many moderns,
calls it Seënna, for Sánmá or Sánumá, meaning 'unless a gale (of wind).' The legend is that
a savage and murderous old king of the Apollonians, whose capital was Atábo, built a look-out
upon a tall cocoanut-tree, and declared that nothing but a storm could lay it low. Sánmá is
still the name of the settlement on the right bank near the rivermouth.

We rested at Kumprasi, a few huts close to the embouchure of the iron-bedded Avin streamlet
and backwater. The little zinc-roofed hut, called by courtesy a store, belonging to Messieurs
Swanzy, was closed. Katubwé, the northern hill on the left bank, had been bought, together
with Akromasi Point and the Avin valley, by the late M. Bonnat, who cleared it and began shafting
it for gold in the usual routine way. During the last six months it has been overgrown with
dense vegetation. Mr. Walker believes, not unreasonably, that this lode is connected with the
Apatim or Bujiá reefs.

Ferrying across, we could note the wild features of the Ancobra's mouth. The bar, which in
smooth weather allows passage to a load of five tons, not unfrequently breaks at an offing
of four miles, and breaks obliquely. The gape is garnished on either side by little black stumps
of rocks, and the general effect is very unpleasant. A fine school of sharks fattens on the
fish inside the bar. At this season the entrance narrows to a few feet, the effect of a huge
sandspit on the right lip, and carries only six feet of water. During the rains it will rise
eleven feet at Sánmá, and at Tumento twenty-four feet in a day, falling with the same dangerous
rapidity. We shall see more of the Ancobra, which here separates two districts. Between it
and Cape Threepoints the land is called Avaláwé; and the westward region, extending to Cape
Apollonia, is named Amrehía, the Amregia of Jeekel and Dahse, meaning, 'where people meet.'

We halted for breakfast at Sánmá, where Messieurs Swanzy have another storehouse, and where
the French Company is building one for itself with characteristic slowness. The settlement
is ill-famed for the Chigo or jigger (Pulex penetrans), unknown in my day upon the West African
coast. It has killed men by causing gangrenous sores. From 'Tabon,' [Footnote: 'Tabon' is evidently
corrupted from the popular greeting ''Sta bom?' (Are you well? How d'e do?)] the Brazil, it
crept over to São Paulo de Loanda, and thence it spread far and wide up and down coast, and
deep into the interior. This fact suggests that there may be truth in the theory which makes
the common flea of India an immigrant from Europe.

At 1 P.M. we resumed our way along the beach, under sunshine tempered by the 'smokes.' These
mists, however, are now clearing away for the tornado-season, and 'insolation' will become
more decided. We ran by sundry little bush-villages: their names will be found in my companion's
careful route-survey. I shall notice only those which showed something notable.

There is sameness in the prospect, which, however, does not wholly lack interest. Soon after
dawn the village urchins begin disporting themselves among the breakers and billows upon broken
bits of boat, while their fathers throw the cast-net nearer shore. The brown-black pigs and
piglets root up the wet sand for shell-fish; and, higher up, the small piebald cattle loiter
in the sun or shade. From afar the negro-groups are not unpicturesque in their bright red and
brimstone yellow sheets, worn like Roman togas. A nearer view displays bridgeless, patulous
noses, suggesting a figure of [Symbol: Figure-8 on its side.]; cheek-bones like molehills,
and lips splayed out in the manner of speaking-trumpets: often, indeed, the face is a mere
attachment to the devouring-apparatus. Throughout the day sexes and ages keep apart. The nude
boys perch upon stones or worn-out canoes. Their elders affect the shade, men on one side of
the village and women on the other. All the settlements are backed by cocoa-trees in lines
and clumps. Those who view Africa biliously compare them with hearse-plumes; I find in them
a peculiar individuality and likeness to humankind. There is the chubby babe, six feet high;
the fast-growing 'hobbedehoy;' the adult, bending away from you like a man, or, woman-like,
inclining towards you; there is the bald, shrunken senior; and, lastly, appears death, lean
and cold and dry.

Between sea and settlement stand the canoes, flat-bottomed and tip-tilted like Turkish slippers;
where the land is low and floods are high, each is mounted upon four posts. Fronting and outside
the village stands a wall-less roof of flat matting, the palaver-house. The settlement is surrounded
by a palisade of fronds stripped from the bamboo-palm and strengthened by posts; the latter
put forth green shoots as soon as stuck in the ground, and recall memories of Robinson Crusoe.
The general entrance has a threshold two to two and a half feet high. The tenements are simple
as birds' nests, primitive as the Highlander's mud-cabin and shieling of wattle and heather.
The outer walls are of bamboo-palm fronds, the partitions are of bamboo-palm matting, and the
roofs are of bamboo-palm thatch. Each place has its osafahin, or headman, and each headman
has his guest-house, built of better material, swish or adobe.

The only approach to grandeur are the long surges and white combers of the mournful and misty
Atlantic. They roll like the waving prairie-land, curl their huge heads, and dash down in a
fury of foam. 'On the top of a billow we ride,' with a witness. Here and there black dots peer
through the surf, and to touch them is death. This foul shore presents a formidable barrier
to landing: there absolutely is no safe place between Apollonia and the Ancobra. European employés
avoid tempting the breakers; they disembark and re-embark for home, and that is all. Mr. Grant
assures us that there is no risk; Mr. Grillett, who has worked the coast since 1875, says the
contrary; no man knows it better or fears it more. Some places are worse than others; for instance,
Inenyápoli is exceptionally dangerous. The sea is shallow, and ships, requiring eight fathoms,
must, to be safe, anchor four miles out. The coast-soundings in the Admiralty charts are positively
unsafe, and will remain so until revised. On the other hand, the reefs and rocks of Axim Bay
have wholly disappeared, with some exceptions seen off Kikam and Esyáma.

Looking inland we find the shore mostly subtended by a marigot, or salt-water lagoon, a miniature
of those regular rivers which made the Slave Coast what it was. And along the sea we can detect
its presence by the trickling of little rills guttering and furrowing the sandy surface. The
formation of these characteristic African features, which either run parallel with or are disposed
at various angles to the coast, is remarkably simple. There is no reason to assume with Lieutenant
R. C. Hart that they result from secular upheaval. [Footnote: Page 186, Gold Coast Blue Book.
London, 1881]. The 'powerful artillery with which the ocean assails the bulwarks of the land'
here heaps up a narrow strip of high sand-bank; and the tails of the smaller streams are powerless
to break through it, except when swollen by the rains. They maintain their level by receiving
fresh water at the head and by percolation through the beach, while most of them are connected
with the sea.

We halted for rest at the Esyáma village; its landmarks are the ronnier, the glorious palmyra
(Borassus flabelliformis), here called 'women's cocoa-tree.' The village looked peculiarly
neat with its straight, sandy street-roads, a quarter of a mile long; and the tenements generally
are better than those of Axim. We noticed the usual feature, a long thatched barn of yellow
clay--school-cum-chapel. The people are fond of planting before their doors the felfa, croton
or physicnut (Jatropha curcas), whose oil so long lighted Lisbon. It is a tree of many uses.
Boys suck the honey of the flower-stalk; and adults drink or otherwise use, as corrective of
bile, an infusion of the leaves and the under bark. They could not give me the receipt for
the valuable preparation of the green apple, well known to the Fantis of Accra.

After returning to Axim we heard of rich diggings two hours' march inland, or north with easting
from Esyáma. They are called 'Yirima,' or 'Choke-full'--that is, of gold. The site is occupied
by King Blay's family, and the place is described as containing three or four reefs which have
all been more or less worked by the natives. After we left the coast Yirima was visited by
Mr. Grant, who reported it as exceptionally promising.

About sunset we hit the Ebumesu, or 'Winding Water.' The people declare that it had a single
mouth till the earthquakes of July 1862, which shook down Accra, raised a divide, and made
a double embouchure. The eastern fork, known as the Páná, is the drain of a large and branchy
lagoon, brackish water, bitumen-coloured or brassy-yellow, with poisonous vegetation, and bounded
by mangroves abounding in tannin. These water-forests grow differently from the red and white
rhizophores of Eastern Africa. We shall again be ferried over the upper part of the western
mouth. Both have bad bars, especially the latter. I therefore can by no means agree with Mr.
Walker's report:--'The western outlet of the Ebumesu, near the village of Eku Enu, or Ekwanu,
is quite practicable for ordinary surf-boats during the dry season--say half the year--and
even in the middle of June I found the bar smooth and safe. Having for thirty years worked
some of the worst bars and beaches' (the Gaboon? or the Sherbro?) 'along some hundreds of miles
of the West Coast, I am able to state that the Ebumesu bar might be safely utilised for landing
goods and machinery; but during the heavy surf of the rainy season goods could always be disembarked
at Axim, and, if necessary, carried along the beach to the mouth of the Ebumesu, and thence
by boat to the tramway from that river to the mine.' This last statement is quite correct.

All the Aximites described the Ebumesu bars as practically impassable. Cameron and I agreed
that the only way of entering them is by running the boat ashore, unloading her, and warping
her round the point, as we shall afterwards do at Prince's. But the best line to the Izrah
concession has not yet been discovered. I strongly impressed the necessity of careful search
upon Mr. A. A. Robertson, the traffic-manager of the Company. For the present I hold the surf
along shore and the Ebumesu bar to be equally dangerous. The land-tongue between the two streams
is the favourite haunt of mosquitoes and sand-flies, and it produces nothing save mud and mangroves,
miasma and malaria. Yet here in 1873-74 loyal and stout-hearted King Blay defended himself
against the whole Apollonian coast, which actively sympathised with the Ashantis. [Footnote:
Captain Brackenbury, vol. ii, p. 29, The Ashanti War, &c., gives an account of King Blay fighting
the Ashantis on the Ebumesu.] He was at last relieved by the Wásás (Wassaws) coming to his
side; and now he has little to fear. He can put some 5,000 musketeers into the field; and,
during the late Ashanti scare, he offered to aid us with 7,000, if we could supply the extras
with arms and ammunition.

When the 'Queen of Shades' arose, and it became too dark to see the world, we halted at the
Sensyéré village, and found good sleeping-quarters in the guest-house of the headman, Bato.
Fortunately we had brought mattresses. The standing four-poster of the country offers only
cross-planks covered with the thinnest matting. As the ancient joke of many a lugubrious African
traveller says, it combines bed and board. Next morning, despite the chilly damp and the 'old-woman-cannot-see,'
as the Scotch mist is here called, our men were ready within reasonable limits. After two hours'
hammock we found ourselves at Atábo, capital of eastern Apollonia, about to pay our promised
return-visit to good King Blay. It is useless to describe the settlement, which in no way differs
from those passed on the path. The country-people related its origin as follows:--A Fanti man
from the country between Secondee (Sekondi), or Fort Orange, and Shamah (Chamah), at the mouth
of the Bosom Prah, when driven out by war, first founded 'Kabeku,' near the present place of
that name. His sons built Béin, or Behin, [Footnote: The aspirate is hardly audible. Captain
Brackenbury, generally so careful, manages to confound Béin and Benin.] meaning a 'strong man,'
and Atábo, in Fanti atába, the name of a tree with a reddish-yellow fruit. The latter was paramount
till late years, when turbulent and unruly Béin was allowed to set up for herself an independent
king; and the sooner things return to the status quo ante the better for peace.

King Blay's guest-house of whitewashed swish is a model of its kind. You pass through a large
compound, which contains the outhouses, into a broad, deep verandah, generally facing away
from the sea. It opens upon a central room adorned with German prints of Scriptural subjects--Mariahilf,
for instance, all gaudy colour and gilt spangles. On each side of this piece are sleeping-rooms.
The furniture of the five is exceedingly simple--a standing bedstead, a table, and a few wooden
chairs. But Ahin Blay is a civilised man who strews his floors with matting, and has osier
fauteuils from Madeira. These quarters are quite wholesome and comfortable enough for temporary
use. They would be greatly improved by mounting on pillars or piles; and they might serve for
all seasons save the rainy.

Mr. Graham, who dispenses elementary knowledge to the missionary pupils, came to us at once,
and kindly offered his aid as 'mouf.' These useful men, who serve as go-betweens and interpreters,
are called 'scholars' by the people, and are charged with making profit out of whites and blacks.
In the afternoon Mr. Graham brought me two neolithic stone-implements. We then set out for
the 'palace,' a large congeries of houses and huts, guided by a mighty braying of horns and
beating of drums, and by Union Jacks, with the most grotesque adjuncts of men and beasts, planted
in the clean and sandy street-road. King Blay received us in his palaver-hall, and his costume
now savoured not of Europe, but of 'fetish.' He had been 'making customs,' or worshipping after
country-fashion, and would not keep us waiting while he changed dress. The cap was a kind of
tall hood, adorned with circles of cowries and two horns of the little bush-antelope; the robe
was Moorish, long and large-sleeved, and both were charged with rolls of red, white, and blue
stuff, supposed to contain grígrís, or talismans. The Ashanti medal, however, was still there;
indeed, he wore it round his neck even on the march, when his toilette was reduced to a waist-cloth
and a billycock. After discussing palm-wine in preference to trade-gin, we persuaded King Blay,
despite all his opposition, that 'time is gold,' and that with strange and indelicate haste
we must set out early on the morrow for the Izrah mine. His main difficulty was about clearing
the path; he had issued strong orders upon the subject, but African kings often command and
no one cares to obey. The monarchy is essentially limited, and the lieges allow no stretch
of power, unless the ruling arm be exceptionally long and strong.

Hearing that the gold-hilted official swords of the King of Béin were for sale, and wishing
to inspect the place, we set off at 3.30 P.M. to cover the 4,769 yards measured along the sands
by Mr. Graham. Reaching our destination, eighteen miles distant from Axim, we were carried
up the long straight street-road which leads to the old English fort. It is the normal building,
a house on bastions, both well and solidly made of stone and lime. Amongst the materials I
found a fine yellow sandstone-grit and a nummulite so weathered that the shells stood out in
strong relief. Both were new to us on this trap-coast, and no one could say where they were
quarried; many thought they must have come from Europe, others that they are brought from inland.
The masonry of the sea-front was pitted with seven large wounds, dealt by as many shells when
we broke down our own work. Such was the consequence of sympathising with the Ashantis in 1873,
when Axim also was bombarded.

What changes these factory-forts have seen, beginning with the days of the jolly old Hollanders,
who, in doublets and trunk-hose, held high state, commanding large garrisons and ruling the
rulers of the land. What banquets, what carousals, with sopies of the best schiedam, and long
clay-pipes stuffed with the finest tobacco, when an exceptional haul of gold-dust or captives
had come to hand! But Time got the better of them; the abolition of the export slave-trade
cut the ground from under their feet; diminished profits made economy necessary, and the forts
were allowed to become the shadows of their former selves. Then came the cession to England,
when all appeared running on the road to ruin. Now, however, things are again changed, and
'Resurgam' may be written upon these scenes of decay. The Mines will once more make the fortune
of the Gold Coast, and the old buildings will become useful as hospitals, and store-houses,
and barracoons for coolie emigrants.

The Béin fort has been repaired and whitewashed inside by the lessees, Messieurs Swanzy, whose
agent, Mr. Carr, we found here in possession. Unlike Axim, it still preserves intact the outer
work with its dwarf belfry over the strong doorway. But the cistern in the middle of this slave-court
must make the cleanly old Netherlanders turn in their tombs.

Opposite the fort is the normal school-room, occasionally served by Mr. Graham, of Atábo; Béin
has a tide-waiter, but no pedagogue. Beyond it rises the large and uneven swish-house of the
'King,' who has lately been summonsed, as a defaulting debtor, to Cape Coast Castle: the single
black policeman who served the writ evidently looked upon us as his colleagues. The people
eyed us with no friendly glances; they were 'making custom' for the ruler's return. The vague
phrase denoted, in this case, a frantic battering of drums, big and little; a squeaking of
scrannel pipes; a feminine 'break-down' of the most effrénée description, and a general libation
to the Bacchus of Blackland. A debauched and drunken Ashanti, who executed for our benefit
a decapitation-dance, evidently wishing that we had been its objects, thanked us ironically
for a sixpence. We met some difficulty in seeing the swords, which were not to be sold. They
were the usual rusty and decayed fish-slicers; Cameron, however, was kind enough to sketch
them for me, and they will appear in my coming book.

Most of the adult males had travelled inland to the Tákwá or French mines, where the Apollonians
bear the highest reputation. Whole gangs flock to the diggings, bringing their own provisions
and implements. Thus they have begun working on tribute and contracting for piece-work. [Footnote:
This information was given to me by M. Plisson, traffic-manager to the Company.] This is a
favourable phase of the labour-question. At the same time it is clear that the labourer can
easily keep the richest specimens for himself and palm off the worst stuff upon the stranger.

Here we are next door to the Ivory Coast, and elephants, they say, are still to be found within
two days north of Béin. The hunters cross a broad stream (the Tando?) and a dry swamp; they
then enter an uninhabited forest; and, after a couple of marches, they reach the animals' haunts.
Small tusks are at times brought in, but no Europeans, so far as I know, ever killed a tusker
in these wilds. My informants heard that a route from Béin leads to Gyáman, and that it may
be travelled without difficulty.

The following note, by Mr. Edward L. McCarthy, describes an excursion from Béin to the unvisited
Essuá-tí, made by him in August 1881:--

'Accompanied by Prince John Coffee, heir to King Blay, three other chiefs, their servants,
and my own party of Krumen, we left the town of Béin, Apollonia, to go up to the village in
the bush called Essuá-tí. Half a mile from the town we found canoes awaiting us, and in these
we were poled along for over half an hour over what in the dry season is a native path, but
now a narrow channel of water winding about in a dense jungle of reeds. Here and there we came
upon small hillocks covered with trees, in which numerous monkeys sported about. Emerging from
these reeds, one broad sheet of water presented itself to the eye, encircled by a low shore
fringed with canes, bush, and palm-trees, and at its western extremity a range of hills rose
out of the background. The lagoon receives several small streams, and empties itself into the
sea by the Ebumesu river, its mouth being about half-way between Béin and the Ancobra. According
to the natives the river used to be navigable to its mouth, but of late years has become overgrown
with reeds. A few years back they set to work to cut a channel through them, but getting tired
of the work gave it up. The length of the lagoon appears to be about three to four miles, and
about one to one and a half in breadth. Its major axis runs parallel to the coastline, or nearly
due east and west. Twenty minutes' paddling brought us round the point of a small headland,
where we came in sight of a pretty lake-village built upon piles, at some little distance from
the shore, the whole forming a most picturesque and animated scene. From house to house canoes
laden with people, plantains, &c., were passing to and fro; groups of villagers, some standing,
others sitting, upon the raised bamboo-platforms outside their houses, were busy bartering
fish for plantains, while the children played around, apparently unconscious of any danger
from falling into the water. The settlement consisted of over forty houses, mostly of bamboo,
a few of "swish," forming one long irregular line, and three or four standing away from the
rest round a corner of land, after the Fanti custom. These houses were built on a bamboo-platform
supported by piles, and raised above the water some three and a half feet. One half of the
platform is covered by the house; the other half, left free, is used to fish from, for the
children to play about on, and for receptions when palavers are held.

'The distance from the shore varies with the overflow of the lake, at the time of my visit
about thirty to forty yards, though for miles beyond this the ground was saturated with water,
whose depth varied from three and a half to nine feet. The piles are made of stout sticks;
the mode of driving them in is to lash two canoes abreast by means of two sticks or paddles,
placed transversely, leaving an open space of about two and a half feet between them. Two men
in each canoe, and facing each other, then vigorously twist and churn about the pole, or rather
stick, into the soft bottom of the lagoon. Some fifteen of these poles are thus driven in and
firmly braced together by cross-pieces, upon which the platform is constructed, and on this
again the house is built.

'We stopped here to breakfast before ascending the Bousaha River; and, while so doing, I counted
at one time over forty natives sitting round us on the platform. I was not without my fears
that we should all be precipitated into the water, but the structure, though in appearance
frail and very rude, was far stronger than what it looked.

'I closely questioned the natives as to why they had built their village upon the lake, and
they invariably gave as their reason that they chiefly fished at night; and, as the water often
overflowed, they would have to build their houses too far away to be able to come and go during
the night; whereas "now," they said, "we are close to where we catch our fish, and we often
catch them even from our houses." Underneath each house were tied from one to five, and sometimes
more, canoes. These were much lighter, more rounded off in the keel, stem, and stern, than
the beach-canoes.

'Three white men, they told me, had visited their village--Captain Dudley in 1876, judging
from the age of a child who was born at the time of his visit; Captain Grant and Mr. Gillett,
in 1878, I afterwards learnt, were the other two. None of them went further into the interior.

'After breakfast we crossed the lagoon, passing on our way several canoes fishing in the middle.
The water was very clear and blue, and of considerable depth, judging from a stone dropped
in. Unfortunately I had no other means of sounding. Not until a dozen yards from the shore
were any signs of a stream discernible. Pushing aside some reeds, we entered a narrow lane
of water, varying from three feet to eighteen feet in width, deep, and, according to the natives,
navigable for three days by canoes. This stream is known by the name of Bousaha, and the lagoon
by Ebumesu. After two hours' hard paddling in a northerly direction we stopped to walk to the
village of Níbá, a large place, principally engaged in raising food for the coast fishing-villages
and Béin, and also in elephant-hunting.

'Elephants at the time of my visit were reported in large numbers two days' journey in the
bush, and the villagers were then organising a party for a hunt. Outside the village I came
across the skull of a young elephant, from which I extracted the teeth. The only report of
a white man having been here before was long ago, when, some of the old men told me, he came
from Assini direction, but turned back again. The village was neatly laid out in streets and
was beautifully clean.

'Another three hours' pull, still bearing northwards, brought us to the village of Essuati,
a smaller place than Níbá, but very prettily laid out with trees, surrounded by seats in its
central street. The people here, as at Níbá, were mainly engaged in agriculture.

'Crowds came to see the "white man," many of the women and children never having been to Axim,
the nearest place where whites are to be found, and, consequently, had never seen one before.

'After a few days' stay here I returned to the coast. While there I came across a curious fish-trap,
a description of which may not be uninteresting. Across a stick planted in the river-bed a
light piece of bamboo was tied, and at its further extremity was suspended a string carrying
fish-hooks. Above these a broad piece of wood, suspended so as to be half in and half out of
the water, acted as a float and spindle. Above this again were tied four large shells, so that
when a fish is hooked the shells begin to jingle, and the fishermen, hid in the bush, immediately
rush out and secure the fish.'

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE IZRAH MINE--THE IKYOKO CONCESSION--THE RETURN TO AXIM.

The next day (February 2) showed me my objective, Izrah, after a voyage of nearly three months.
The caravan, now homeward-bound after a fashion, rose early, and we hammocked in the cool and
misty morning along shore to Inyenápoli--the word means Greater Inyena, as opposed to Inyenachi,
the Less. In the house of Mr. J. Eskine I saw his tradesman bartering cloth for gold-dust.
The weighing apparatus is complicated and curious, and complete sets of implements are rare;
they consist of blowers, sifters, spoons, native scales, weights of many kinds, and 'fetish
gong-gongs,' or dwarf double bells.

Gold-dust is the only coin of the realm; and travellers who would pass
north of the Protectorate must buy it on the coast. It is handier than one
would suppose; even a farthing can be paid in it by putting one or two
grains upon a knife-tip, and there is a name, peseha (Port. peso?),
for a pennyworth. Larger values go by weight; the aki (ackie),
[Footnote: The word aki sounds much like the Arab roukkah or
roukkiyah. Its weight, the 16th of an ounce, never varies; but the value
ranges from 4s. 6d. to 5s., according as the ounce is worth 3l.
12s. to 4l. 10s., the average being assumed at 4l. Other
proportions are:--
 The toku (carat-seed) = 5d.
 The benna = 2 akis.
 The periquen, pereguen, or peredroano = 32 akis, or two ounces in
weight; and ranging in value from 9l. to 10l. (Bowdich, p. 283). The
word is Ashanti, little used by the Fantis.

For a list of these complicated gold weights, of which Mr. Grant has promised me a set, see
Appendix B,  A Dictionary of the Asante and Fante Language, Rev. Christaller, Basel, 1881.]
or sixteenth of an ounce, being the unit of value. The people may be persuaded to take an English
sovereign, but they spurn a French napoleon. Amongst the many desiderata of the Coast is a
law making all our silver coins legal tenders. At present the natives will scarcely take anything
but threepenny-bits, new and bright and bearing H.B.M.'s 'counterfeit presentment.' Copper
has been tried, but was made to fail by a clever District-commissioner, who refused to take
the metal in payment of Government dues. The old cowrie-currency, of which the tapo, or score,
represented two farthings, is all but extinct. Its name will be preserved in the proverb, 'There
is no market wherein the dove with the pouting breast (the cypraea) has not traded.' The same
is the case with the oldest money, round and perforated quartz-stones, which suggest the ring-coinage
of ancient Egypt. From Inyenápoli, preceded by King Blay, who so managed that a fair path had
been hastily cut through the bush, we struck inland, the course being northwards, bending to
the north-east and east. The first hour, covering some three miles, lay partly over a flat
plain of grass used for thatch, pimpled with red anthills and broken by lines and patches of
dense jungle. These savannahs are common near the sea; we had already remarked one behind Béin.
They denote the 'false coast,' and they become during the wet season almost impassable swamps
and mud-fields.

Then we struck the valley of 'Ebumesu, winding water,' whose approach, rank with mire and corded
with roots, is the Great Dismal Swamp of Dahome in miniature. Here, seven and a quarter miles
from the mouth, the stream measures about twenty yards broad, the thalweg is deep and navigable,
and the water, bitumen-coloured with vegetable matter, tastes brackish. There is the usual
wasteful profusion of growth. Ferns ramp upon the trees; Cameron counted at Akankon two dozen
different species within a few hundred yards. Orchids bunch the boughs and boles of dead forest-giants;
and llianas, the African 'tie-tie,' varying in growth from a packthread to a cable, act as
cordage to connect the growths.

There is evidently a shorter cut up the river, at whose lagoon-mouth craft can be hired. Our
ferryman with his single canoe wasted a good hour over the work of a few minutes. We then remounted
hammock and struck the 'true coast,' a charming bit of country, gradually upsloping to the
north and east. The path passed through the plantation-villages, Benyá and Arábo, growing bananas
and maize, cassava and groundnuts, peppers and papaws, cocoas and bamboo-palms (Raphia vinifera).
The latter not only build the houses, they also yield wine of two kinds, both, however, inferior
to the produce of the oil-palm (Elais guineënsis). The adúbé, drawn from the cut spathe, which
continues to yield for two or three months, is held to be wholesome, diuretic, and laxative.
The inséfu is produced in mortice-like holes cut along the felled trunk; they fill freely for
a fortnight to three weeks, when fires must be lighted below to make the juice run into the
pots. It is sweeter and better flavoured than the former, but it is accused of being unwholesome.
The people drink palm-wine at different hours of the day, according to taste. The beverage
is mild as milk in the morning; after noon it becomes heady, and rough as the sourest cider.
The useful palm bears a huge bolster-like roll of fruit, which should be tried for oil: Cameron
brought home a fine specimen for Kew. Here the land is evidently most fertile, and will form
good farms for the Company. Leaving Arábo, we forded the double stream called the Bilá, which
runs a few yards west of the concession. The banks are grown with rice, showing how easily
they will produce all the food necessary for the labourers. The quality, moreover, is better,
and the grain more nutritious than the Chinese import. The bed of bright sand, supplying the
sweetest water, has in places been worked for gold by the women, but much remains to be done.

In another hour, making a total of six miles from Inyenápoli, we reached our destination, Arábokasu,
or 'One Stone for Top.' We lodged our belongings in the bamboo-house newly built by Mr. Grant,
finding it perfectly fit for temporary use. Before I left Axim Mr. C. C. Robertson landed there,
instructed by the Izrah Company to choose a fair site for a frame-house mounted on piles. It
was presently made in England, but unfortunately not after the Lagos fashion, with the bed-rooms
opening upon a verandah seven to nine feet broad, and a double roof of wood with air-space
between, instead of thatch and corrugated iron. The house measures 52 x 32 feet, and contains
four bed-rooms, a dining-room, and the manager's office. A comfortable tenement of the kind
costs from 300l. to 500l., an exceptional article 700l.

We at once set out to cast a first glance upon the Izrah mine. The word is properly Izíá, a
stone, also the name of the man who began gold-digging on the spot. This style of nomenclature
is quite 'country-fashion.' Apparently Izíá became Izrah to assume a 'Scriptural' sound; if
so, why not 'go the whole animal' and call it the Isaiah?

This fine concession is a rectangular parallelogram, whose dimensions are 2,000 yards long
from north to south, by a breadth of half. The village stands outside the south-western angle,
and the Fía rivulet runs through the south-eastern corner. The surface is rolling ground, with
a rise and a depression trending from south-west to north-east. The whole extent, except where
'bush' lingers, is an old plantation of bananas, manioc, and ground-nuts. There is an ample
supply of good hard timber, but red pitch-pine or creosoted teak from England would last much
longer. Amongst the trees are especially noted the copal, the gamboge, rich in sticky juice,
the brovi, said to be the hardest wood, and the dum, or African mahogany (Oldfieldia africana),
well known in Ceylon as excellent material for boat-building. There was an abundance of the
Calabar-bean (Physostigma venenosum), once used for an ordeal-poison, and now applied by surgery
in ophthalmic and other complaints. The 'tie-tie,' as Anglo-Africans call the rope-like creepers,
was also plentiful; it may prove valuable for cordage, and possibly for paper-making. I was
pleased to see the ease with which the heaped-up jungle-growth is burnt at this season and
the facility of road-making. Half a dozen Kru-boys with their matchets can open, at the rate
of some miles a day, a path fit to carry a 'sulky;' and the ground wants only metalling with
the stone which lines every stream. At the same time I hold that here, as in Mexico, we should
begin with railways and tramways. Nor will there be any difficulty in keeping down the jungle.
The soft and silky Bahama-grass has been brought from Sá Leone to Axim, where it covers the
open spaces, and it grows well at Akankon. There is no trouble except to plant a few roots,
which extend themselves afar; and the carpet when thick allows, like the orange-tree, no undergrowth.

The 'Izrah' concession is due to the energy and activity of Mr. R. B. N. Walker, who has told
its history. In March 1881, when he first visited it, there had been a black 'rush;' the din
and clamour of human voices were audible from afar, and on reaching the mine he found some
300 natives hard at work. I was told that the greatest number at one time was 2,000. The account
reminds us exactly of the human floods so famous in other parts of the mining world. The men
were sinking pits of unusual size along the south-eastern slope of the hillock, where the great
clearing now is. The excitement was remarkable; and, negroes not being given to hard and continuous
labour without adequate inducement, the bustle and the uproar, and the daily increasing numbers
of miners flocking from considerable distances, were evidence sufficient that there was an
unusually good 'find.' Their pits, attaining a maximum of 12 feet square by 55 deep, extended
over some 150 yards from NN.E. to SS.W., with a breadth of about 20. From some of these holes
rich quartz had been taken, one piece, the size of a 32-pounder cannon-ball, yielding more
than ten ounces of gold. A shaft, however, soon caved in, for the usual reason: it had been
inadequately timbered and incautiously widened at the bottom to the shape of a sodawater-bottle.
All these works owed a royalty to Ahin Blay; but his dues were irregularly paid, and consequently
he preferred to them a fixed rental of 100l. per annum.

The following anecdote will show how limited is the power of these 'kings.' He of Apollonia
wished to sell this southern patch of ground, worked by the natives, it being, in fact, the
terminal tail of the Izrah reef and the key of the property. But one Etié, head-man of Kikam,
bluntly refused. Presently this chieflet agreed to sell to Mr. Grant the whole tract, a length
of one thousand fathoms from north to south, the breadth being left undetermined. But Etié
was deep in Messieurs Swanzy's books, and he wanted ready money. The tempter came in the shape
of Mr. Dawson, a native missionary whom I met a score of years ago at Agbóme, and whose name
appears in all narratives of the last Ashanti war. Although an employé of the Tákwá or French
mine, he bought for himself, paying 200l., the best part of the reef (100 fathoms), leaving
the butt-end, of inferior value, to Mr. Grant. This was a direct breach of contract, and might
be brought into the local law-courts. I advised, however, an arrangement à l'aimable, and I
still hope to see it carried out.

Life at Arábokasu was pleasant enough. The site, rising about 120 feet above ocean-level, permits
the 'Doctor,' alias the sea-breeze, to blow freshly, and we distinctly heard the sough of the
surf. Mornings and evenings were exceedingly fine, and during the cool nights we found blankets
advisable. These 'small countries' (little villages) are remarkably clean, and so are the villagers,
who, unlike certain white-skins, bathe at least once a day. At this season we had nothing to
complain of mosquitoes or sand-flies, nor was 'Insektenpulver' wanted inside the house. The
only physiological curiosity in the settlement was a spotted boy, a regular piebald, like a
circus-pony; even his head grew a triangular patch of white hair. We wanted him for the London
Aquarium, but there were difficulties in the way. Amongst the Apollonians albinoes are not
uncommon; nor are the children put to death, as by the Ashantis. Both races cut the boss from
hunchbacks after decease, and 'make fetish' over it to free the future family from similar
distortion. Our villagers told us strange tales of a magician near Assini who can decapitate
a man and restore him to life, and who lately had placed a dog's head on a boy's body. Who
can 'doubt the fact'? the boy was there!

I will now borrow freely from the diary kept during our five days' inspection of the Izrah
diggings. Cameron worked hard at a rough survey of the ground which Mr. Walker had attempted
with considerable success, seeing that he carried only a pedometer and a small pocket-compass.
My proceedings were necessarily limited, as I had no authority to disburse money.

February 3.--The night had been somewhat noisy with the hyena-like screams which startled our
soldiers en route to Kumasi. They are said to proceed from a kind of hyrax (?) about the size
of a rabbit; the Krumen call it a 'bush-dog', and, as will appear, Cameron holds it to be a
lemur. The morning was cool, but not clear, and the country so far like the 'Garden of Eden'
that there went up a mist from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground. But the
mist was a Scotch mist, which, in less humid lands, might easily pass for fine rain; and the
drip, drip, drip of heavy dew-drops from the broad banana-leaves sounded like a sharp shower.
At this hour the birds are wide awake and hungry; a hundred unknown songsters warble their
native wood-notes wild. The bush resounds with the shriek of the parrot and the cooing of the
ringdove, which reminds me of the Ku-ku-ku (Where, oh, where?) of Umar-i-Khayyám. Its rival
is the tsil-fui-fui-fui, or 'hair grown,' meaning that his locks are too long and there is
no one to cut or shave them. Upon the nearest tall tree, making a spiteful noise to frighten
away all specimens, sits the 'watch-bird,' or apateplu, so called from his cry; he is wary
and cunning, but we bagged two. The 'clock-bird,' supposed to toll every hour, has a voice
which unites the bark of a dog, the caw of a crow, and the croak of a frog: he is rarely seen
and even cleverer than 'hair grown.' More familiar sounds are the roucoulement of the pigeon
and the tapping of the woodpecker. The only fourfooted beast we saw was the small bush-antelope
with black robe, of which a specimen was brought home, and the only accident was the stinging
of a Kruboy by a spider more spiteful than a scorpion.

Reaching the ground after a ten minutes' walk, we examined the principal reef as carefully
as we could. The strike is nearly north-south, the dip easterly, and the thickness unknown.
The trial-shaft, sunk by Mr. Walker in the centre of the southern line, was of considerable
size, eight by twelve feet; and the depth measured thirty, of which four held water based upon
clay-mud. The original native shafts to the south are of two kinds, the indigenous chimney-pit
and the parallelogram-shaped well borrowed from Europeans. The latter varied in dimensions
from mere holes to oblongs six by seven feet; and all the more important were roofed and thatched
with pent-houses of palm-leaf, to keep out the rain. The shaft-timbering, also a loan from
foreigners, consisted of perpendicular bamboo-fronds tied with bush-rope to a frame of poles
cut from small trees; they corresponded with our sets and laths. There were rude ladders, but
useful enough, two bamboos connected by rungs of 'tie-tie.' The 'sollars' were shaky platforms
of branches, but there was no sign of a winch.

We set Krumen and porters to clear and lay out the southern boundary, and to open a path leading
direct to the beach. One would fancy that nothing is easier than to cut bush in a straight
line from pole to pole, especially when these were marked by strips of red calico. Yet the
moment our backs were turned the wrong direction was taken. It pains one's heart to see the
shirking of work, the slipping away into the bush for a sleep, and the roasting of maize and
palm-nuts--'ground-pigs' fare,' they call the latter--whenever an opportunity occurs. The dawdling
walk and the dragging of one leg after the other, with intervals to stand and scratch, are
a caution. Even the villagers appear incapable of protracted labour unless it leads immediately
to their benefit, and the future never claims a thought.

February 4.--After the south-eastern corner had been marked with a tall cross, we opened a
path from Arábokasu to the trial-shaft. We threw a bridge of the felled trunks cumbering the
clearing over the Fía rivulet, and again examined its bed. Gold had been found in it by the
women, and this, as usual, gave rise to the discovery of its subtending reef. The whole of
the little river-valley extending to the sea should be bought and worked; there is no doubt
that it will turn out rich. In the channel we found an outcrop of slates, both crumbling and
compact; this is always a welcome sign. To the east of the water there is a second quartz-reef,
running parallel with the upper ridge, and apparently untouched by the pick.

The next two days were spent in finishing the southern line and in planting a post at the south-western
extremity. Here we found that our workmen had gone entirely wrong, and we were forced to repeat
the work. I had exposed myself over-freely to the sun, and could do little for the next week:
fortunately my energetic companion was in better condition.

February 7.--Cameron took bearings from the south of the concession, which he placed, with
Mr. Walker, four geographical miles from the sea. Other informants had exaggerated it to him,
and M. Dahse writes six. After 1,000 to 1,200 yards he struck the 'false coast,' crossed a
deep and fetid swamp, and, after a short rise, came upon the miry borders of the Ebumesu. He
canoed 800 yards down-stream without difficulty; and, finding the water brackish while the
ebb-tide ran strong, he considered that this part was rather a lagoon than a river. The people
also assured us that it runs along the coast, ending near and north of the Béin Fort-village.

In the evening my companion and Mr. Grant walked to the north-west of the concession; the place
is called by Mr. Walker Iziá-bookah (Izíá Hill), but the natives ignore the term. Here, at
a distance of 900 yards north and by west (true) of the Arábokasu village, they found and collected
specimens of a fine reef of hard white quartz. 'Women's washings' were numerous, showing the
proper way to begin working the ground. The right of prospecting the whole of the section to
the N.E. had been secured by Mr. Walker for Mr. Irvine, and presently the 'Apollonian concession'
appeared in the mining journals.

We had now done all we could; the circumstances of the case compelled us to study the geology
and topography of the property rather than its geology and mineralogy. Nothing now remained
save to rebrousser chemin. Good King Blay, who had formally made over to me possession of the
'Izrah' mine, left us for his own village, in order to cure an inflamed foot. He attributed
it to the 'fetish' of some unfriend; but it turned out to be Guinea-worm, a malady from which
many are suffering this season. We parted upon the most friendly terms and arranged to meet again.

Both of us came to the conviction that the 'Izrah Concession' will pay, and pay well. But instead
of the routine shafting and tunnelling it must be treated by hydraulicking and washing away
the thirty feet of auriferous soil, whose depth covers the reef. The bed of the Fía will supply
the water, and a force-pump, worked by men, or preferably by steam-power. Thus we shall keep
the mine dry: otherwise it will be constantly flooded. Moreover, the land seems to be built
for ditching and sluicing, and the trenches will want only a plank-box with a metal grating
at the head. I can only hope that the operations will be conducted by an expert hand who knows
something of the Californian or the Australian diggings.

On February 8 we left Arábokasu, intending to march upon the 'Inyoko Concession.' Our guide
and people, however, seemed to change every five minutes what they might call their 'minds,'
and at last they settled to try the worst, but to us the most interesting line. At 8 A.M. we
struck into the bush viâ a heap of huts, the 'Matinga' village, at the south-eastern corner
of the fine mineral property. Here 'women's washings' again appeared. At the Achyáko settlement
we crossed the two branches of the Fía. One measures twenty feet wide and two feet six inches
deep in the dry season; it runs a knot an hour, and thus the supply is ample. About a mile
further on we were carried across the Gwabisa stream, four feet wide by eighteen inches deep,
running over a bed of quartz-pebbles. This ended the 'true coast.'

The 'false coast' began close to the little settlement known as Ashankru. It shows a fine quartz-reef,
striking north fourteen degrees east. The formation was shown by the normal savannah and jungle-strips.
About noon we were ferried over the eastern arm of the Ebumesu, known as the Pápá. I have noted
scanty belief in the bar of the Ebumesu proper, the western feature. The eastern entrance,
however, perhaps can be used between the end of December and March, and in calm weather would
offer little difficulty to the surfboats transhipping machinery from the steamers.

Beginning a little east of the Esyámo village, the Pápá lagoon subtends the coast. We shot
over it in the evening, and at night found quarters at the Ezrimenu village marked Ebu-mesu
in old maps.

This return march of two hours or so had been a mere abomination. The path, which had not been
cleared, led through a tangle of foul and fetid thicket, upon which the sun darted a sickly,
malignant beam. Creepers and llianas, some of which are spiny and poisonous, barred the thread
of path, which could not be used for hammocks. The several stream-beds, about to prove so precious,
run chocolate-tinted water over vegetable mire, rich, when stirred, in sulphuretted hydrogen.
The only bridges are fallen trunks. Amongst the minor pests are the nkran, or 'driver,' the
ahoho, a highly-savoured red ant, and the hahinni, a large black formica terribly graveolent;
flies like the tzetze, centipedes, scorpions, and venomous spiders, which make men 'writhe
like cut worms.' There was a weary uniformity in the closed view, and the sole breaks were
an occasional plantation or a few pauper huts, with auriferous swish, buried in that eternal green.

     God made the country and man made the town,

sang the silly sage, who evidently had never seen a region untouched by the human hand. Finally,
this 'Fía route' will probably become the main line from Axim to the Izrah mine, and the face
of the country will be changed within a year.

As I was still weak Cameron and Mr. Grant early next morning (Feb. 9) canoed over the 300 yards
or so of the Pápá lagoon bounding Ezrimenu village on the landward side. They then struck nearly
due north; and, after walking three-quarters of an hour, perhaps two miles and a half, over
a good open path, easily convertible into a cart-road, they reached the Inyoko Concession.
It measures 2,400 yards square, beginning at the central shaft, on the northern side of the
hill which gives it a name; and thus it lies only about eight miles westward of the Ancobra
River. The ground has not been much worked of late years, but formerly Kwáko Akka, the tyrant
of Apollonia, 'rich in blood and ore,' who was deposed by the British Colonial Government about
1850, and was imprisoned in Cape Coast Castle, is said to have obtained from it much of his wealth.

They found the strike of the hill approximately north 22º east (true); [Footnote: In laying
down limits great attention must be paid to variation. As a rule 19º 45' west has been assumed
from the Admiralty charts--good news for the London attorney. At Tumento this figure rises
to 20º; upon the coast it must be changed to 19º 15' (W.), and in other places to 16º 40'.]
the dip appears to be easterly, and the natives have worked the Abbruch or débris which have
fallen from the reef-crest. This wall may be a continuation of the Akankon formation; both
are rich in a highly crystalline quartz of livid blue, apparently the best colour throughout
the Gold Region. The surface-ground, of yellowish marl with quartz-pebbles, is evidently auriferous,
and below it lies a harder red earth rusty with iron. From the southern boundary of the Inyoko
concession, and the village of that name, runs a strong outcrop of a kindly white quartz, which,
when occurring in conjunction with the blue, usually denotes that both are richer than when
a single colour is found. Such at least is Cameron's experience.

Mr. Walker, who secured this concession also, notes that the native pits were very shallow
and superficial. He was pressed for time, and sunk his trial-shaft but little more than three
fathoms: here free gold was visible in the blue quartz, which yielded upwards of one ounce per ton.

My companion found the shaft still open, and observed that the valley contained many holes
and washing-pits. One was pointed out to him by Mr. Grant as having yielded twenty ounces of
dust in one day: these reports recall the glories of California and Australia in the olden
time. The little Etubu water, which runs 200 yards from the shaft, would easily form a reservoir,
supplying the means of washing throughout the year. Here, then, are vast facilities for hydraulic
work; millions of cubic feet can be strained of thin gold at a minimum expenditure. There will
be less 'dead work,' and 'getting' would be immediate. Thus, too, as in California, the land
will be prepared for habitation and agriculture, and the conditions of climate will presently
be changed for the better.

Early in the forenoon (Jan. 9) we hammocked to the Kikam village, and were much disappointed.
King Blay, too lame to leave his home, had sent his interpreter to show us the Yirima or 'Choke-full'
reef; and the man, doubtless influenced by some intrigue, gave us wrong information. Moreover
the safahin Etié, before mentioned, had gone, they said, to his lands at Prince's: he was probably
lurking in some adjacent hut. We breakfasted in his house, but all the doors were bolted and
locked, and his people would hardly serve us with drinking water. We attempted in vain to buy
the boma, or fetish-drum, a venerable piece of furniture hung round with human crania, of which
only the roofs remained. King Blay, however, eventually sent us home a boma, and it was duly
exhibited in town. Kikam was the only place in Apollonia where we met with churlish treatment;
no hospitality, however, could be expected when the strangers were supposed to be mixed up
in a native quarrel.

Unwilling to linger any longer in the uninviting and uninteresting spot, we ordered our hammocks,
set out at noon, and, following the line over which we had travelled, reached Axim at 5 P.M.

We had no other reason to complain of our week's trip except its inordinate expense. Apparently
one must be the owner of a rich gold-mine to live in and travel on the Gold Coast. We had already
in a fortnight got through the 50l. of silver sent from England; and this, too, without including
the expenses of bed and board.

We came home with the conviction that the Inyoko property should have been the second proposed
for exploitation, coming immediately after the Apatim. Our reasons were the peculiar facilities
of reaching it and the certainty that, when work here begins, it will greatly facilitate communication
with 'Izrah.' But progress is slow upon the Gold Coast, and our wishes may still be realised.

I cannot better conclude this chapter than with an extract from Captain Brackenbury's 'Narrative
of the Ashanti War.' [Footnote: Blackwoods, Edinburgh and London, 1874. Vol. ii. pp. 351, 352.]
It will show how well that experienced and intelligent officer foresaw in 1873 the future of
the Gold Coast.

'Are there no means of opening this country up to trade, no means of infusing into it an element
superior to that of the Fanti races, of holding in check the savagery of the inland tribes,
and preventing the whole coast again becoming abandoned to fetishism and human sacrifices?
To the writer's mind there is but one method, and that one by an appeal to man's most ignoble
passion--the lust of gold. This country is not without reason called the Gold Coast. Gold is
there in profusion, and to be had for the seeking. We have ourselves seen the women washing
the sand at Cape Coast and finding gold. When Captain Thompson visited the Wassaw (Wásá) country,
he found the roads impassable at night by reason of the gold-pits upon them. Captain Butler
describes western Akim as a country teeming with gold. Captain Glover has said that in eastern
Akim gold is plentiful as potatoes in Ireland, and the paths were honeycombed with gold-pits.
Dawson has distinctly stated his opinion that the Fanti gold-mines are far more valuable than
those of Ashanti--that the only known Ashanti gold-mine of great value is that of Manoso; whereas
the Wassaw and the Nquamfossoo mines, as well as the Akim mines, have rock-gold (nuggets) in
profusion. He says that the Ashantis get their gold from the Fantis in exchange for slaves,
whom they buy for two or three loads of coller- (kola-) nuts, worth less than half an ounce
of gold, and sell to the Fantis for as much as two and a quarter ounces of gold. Let our Government
prospect these mines; let Acts be passed similar to those by which vast railway companies are
empowered to compel persons to sell their land at a fair price; let our Government, by means
of Houssa troops, guarantee protection to companies formed to work the mines, and let the payment
to the kings in whose country they are be by royalties upon the gold obtained. The kings would
offer the utmost resistance to their mines being thus taken and worked; but they have never
worked them properly themselves, and they will never work them properly; and it would be no
injustice to allow others to do so. If the true value of these services were ascertained by
Government mining engineers, if the Government would guarantee protection to those engaged
in working them, companies would soon be formed to reap the rich harvest to be found upon the
coast. Chinese coolies would be imported, who would breed in with the natives and infuse some
energy into the Fanti races. Trade would soon follow, roads be made, and the whole country
opened up. The engagement of our Government should be a limited one, for if once the gold-mines
were at work there would be no further fear that the country would ever fell back into the
hands of the Ashantis.'

The counsel is good, but we have done better. Private companies have undertaken the work, and
have succeeded where the Government would fail. So far from resisting, the 'kings' have been
too glad to accept our offers. And now the course is forwards, without costing the country
a farthing, and with a fair prospect of supplying to it a large proportion of the precious
metal still wanted.

NOTE.--Since these lines were written the Yiri (full) ma (quite) reef has been leased by Mr.
Grant, who sent home specimens showing, I am told, 14 oz. per ton. The fine property belongs
to King Blay, who built a village upon it and there stationed his brother to prevent 'jumping.'
In the spring of 1862 he wished to keep half the ground for his own use.

CHAPTER XIX.

TO PRINCE'S RIVER AND BACK.

On February 15 we proceeded down coast to inspect the mining-lands of Prince's River valley,
east of Axim; and this time it was resolved to travel by surf-boat, ignoring that lazy rogue
the hammock-man. Yet even here difficulties arose. Mast and sail were to be borrowed, and paddles
were to be hired at the rate of a shilling a day each. They are the life of the fishing Aximites;
yet they have not the energy to make them, and must buy those made in Elmina.

The eastern coast, like that of Apollonia, is a succession of points and bays, of cool-looking
emerald jungle and of 'Afric's golden sands' reeking with unkindly heat. Passing the long black
tongue of Prépré, or Inkubun, and the red projection, Ponta Terceira, we sighted the important
Ajámera village, so called from a tree whose young leaves show a tender pinkish-red. On the
Awazán Boppo Hill, about two miles from the trial-shaft of his concession, Dr. Ross found a
native 'Long Tom.' It was a hollowed palm-trunk rotten with age, closed at one end and open
at the other, with a slant downwards; two forks supported it over a water-filled hollow, measuring
ten feet each way by three deep. Ajámera lies a little west of the peninsula, Africanicè Madrektánah,
a jutting mass of naked granite glazed red by sea-water: on either side of the sandy neck,
pinned down, like Pirate's Bay, by cocoa-nuts, there is the safest landing-place. And now we
sight our port, distant some nine miles from Axim.

In front rises Prince's Hill, clad in undergrowth with a topping tuft of tall figs. At its
eastern base lies the townlet, showing more whitewash than usual; and, nearer still, the narrow
mouth of the fiery little Yenna, Prince's or St. John's River. The view is backed by the tall
and wooded ridge of Cape Threepoints, the southernmost headland of the Gold Coast, behind which
is Dixcove. It is interesting to us because a syndicate has been formed, and engineers are
being sent out to survey the pathless 'bush' between the sea and Tumento on the Ancobra, whose
site was at the time unknown. Cameron presently discovered that the Tákwá ridge is nearer Axim
than Dixcove is, and that the line would pass within easy distance of Kinyanko, one of its
raisons d'être.

This wild plan has been supported by sundry concessionists whose interests lie behind Dixcove
and at Kinyanko. Dixcove of the crocodile-worship has one of the worst bars on the coast. Canoes
and surf-boats must run within biscuit-throw of the Rock Kum-Brenni [Footnote: In the Oji or
Ashanti-Fanti tongue bro or bronni (the Ga 'blofo') means somebody or something European. It
is derived from abro (blo), maize, introduced by white men; others say that when the first
strangers landed upon the coast, the women, who were grinding, said, 'These men are white as
maize-meal.' 'Abrokirri' (Europe) is, however, explained by the Rev. Mr. Riis as perhaps a
corruption of Puto, Porto, Portugal.] ('White Man's Death'), and the surf will often shut up
the landing-place for four or five successive days. The place will become important, but not
in this way. The Rev. Mr. Milum, in whose pleasant society I voyaged, showed me his sketch
of the station with an isolated red 'butte,' possibly an island of old, rising close behind
the houses and trending north-south. Grain-gold was found in it by the native schoolmaster,
who dug where he saw a thin smoke or vapour hovering over the ground: throughout the Coast
this, like the presence of certain ferns, is held a sure sign that the precious ore is present.
Moreover, a small nugget appeared in the swish being prepared for a house-wall. Thus 'washing'
will be easy and inexpensive, and the Wesleyan mission may secure funds for extending itself
into the non-maritime regions.

We turned the boat's head shorewards, and, after encountering the normal three seas, ran her
upon the beach near the right jaw of Prince's River. The actual mouth is between natural piers
of sea-blackened trap-rock, and the gullet behind it could at this season be cleared by an
English hunter. We unloaded and warped our conveyance round the gape till she rode safe in
the inner broad. And now we saw that Prince's is not the river of the hydrographic chart, but
a true lagoon-stream, the remains of a much larger formation. There has been, here and on other
parts of the coast, a little archipelago whose islets directed the riverine courses; the shallows
between were warped up by mangrove and other swampy vegetation, and the whole has become, after
a fashion, terra firma. Each holm had doubtless a core of rock, whose decay produced a rich
soil. Now they are mounds and ridges of red clay standing up abruptly, and their dense growths
of dark yew-like trees contrast with the yellowish produce of the adjacent miry lowlands.

The chief of Prince's Town, Eshánchi, alias 'Septimulus,' a name showing a succession of seven
sons, not without a suspicion of twins, would have accompanied us up stream. Guinea-worm, however,
forbade, and he sent a couple of guides, one of whom, Wafápa, alias 'Barnabas,' a stout, active
freedman of the village, proved very useful.

We resolved to shoot the banks going, and to collect botanical specimens on return. The land
appears poor in mammals, rich in avifauna, and exceedingly abundant in insect life. Of larger
animals there are leopards, cat o' mountains and civet-cats, wild hog and fine large deer;
we bought a leg weighing 11-1/2 lbs., and it was excellent eating seasoned with 'poor man's
quinine,' alias garlic. Natives and strangers speak of the jungle-cow, probably the Nyaré antelope
(Bos brachyceros) of the Gaboon regions, the empacasso of the Portuguese. Two small black squirrels,
scampering about a white-boled tree, were cunning enough never to give a shot. We sighted only
small monkeys with white beards and ruddy coats. 'He be too clever for we,' said the Kruboys
when the wary mannikins hid in the bush. I saw nothing of the kontromfi, cynocephalus or dog-faced
baboon, concerning whose ferocity this part of Africa is full of stories. Further north there
is a still larger anthropoid, which the natives call a wild man and Europeans a gorilla. The
latter describe its peculiar whoop, heard in the early night when the sexes call to each other.

Our results were two species of kingfishers (alcedo), the third and larger kind not showing;
a true curlew (Numenius arquata), charming little black swallows (Wardenia nigrita), the common
English swallow; a hornbill (buceros), all feathers and no flesh; a lean and lanky diver (plotus),
some lovely little honeysuckers, a red oriole, a fine vulture (Gypohierax angolensis), and
a grand osprey (hali[oe]tus), which even in the agonies of death would not drop his prey. Many
other birds were given over to Mr. Dawson, who worked from dawn till dusk. Mr. Grant dropped
from the trees three snakes, one green and two slaty-brown. The collection found its way to
the British Museum after the usual extensive plunder, probably at a certain port, where it
is said professional collectors keep customhouse-men in pay. Mr. R. B. Sharp was kind enough
to name the birds, whose shrunken list will be found at the end of the volume.

Cameron, observing for his map, was surprised by the windings of the bed; we seemed ever within
hearing of the sea. Where a holm of rock and bush splits the course its waters swarm with fish,
as shown by the weirs and the baskets, large and small; some of its cat-fish (siluri) weigh
10 lbs. Every shoal bred oysters in profusion, young mangroves sprouted from the submerged
mollusk-beds, and the 'forests of the sea' were peopled with land-crabs.

At first the vegetation of the banks was almost wholly of rhizophores, white and red; the wood
of the latter burns like coal, and the bark is admirable for tanning. In places their long
suckers, growing downwards to the stream, resembled a cordwainer's walk set on end. A bush
of yellow-flowered hibiscus clothes the banks that are less level; and, higher still, grows
a tall and beautiful mimosa with feathery web and pendent pods of brightest green and yellow.
Then came the brabs and palms, fan-, cocoa-, oil-, and bamboo-, with their trunks turned to
nurseries of epiphytes and air-plants. The parasites are clematis and a host with hard botanical
names.

Towards evening, as the stream narrowed, the spectacle was imposing. The avenues and trees
stood up like walls, but living walls; and in places their billowy bulges seemed about to burst
upon us like Cape-rollers. Every contrast was there of light and dark, short and tall, thick
and thin; of age and death with lusty youth clinging around it; of the cocoa's drooping frond
and the aspiring arm of bombax, the silk-cotton-tree, which rains brown gossamer when the wind
blows; of the sloth-tree with its topping tuft, and the tangled mantle of the calamus or rattan,
a palm like a bamboo-cane. The bristly pod of the dolichos (pruriens) hangs by the side of
the leguminosæ, from whose flattened, chestnut-coloured seeds snuff-boxes are made further
east. It was also a floresta florida, whose giants are decked with the tender little blossoms
of the shrub, and where the bright bracts and yellow greens of this year's growth light up
the sombre verdure of an older date. The type of this growth is the red camwood-tree, with
its white flower of the sweetest savour. Imagine an English elm studded with pinks or daisies,
gardenias or hyacinths. There is nothing more picturesque than the shiftings and changes of
aspect upon these African streams, which at first seem so monotonous. After dawn the smoking
water, feeling tepid to the hand and warmer than the atmosphere, veils the lower levels and
makes the forest look as if based on air. Noon brings out every variety of distance with startling
distinctness, and night, especially moonlit night, blurs with its mists long tracts of forest,
rains silver over the ridges, and leaves the hollows in the blackest shade. Seen from above,
the sea of trees looks like green water raised to waves by the wind, and the rustling in the
breeze mimics the sound of distant surf.

A catamaran of four cork-trees, a cranky canoe, the landing-place of a bush-road, a banana-plantation,
and a dwarf clearing, where sat a family boiling down palm-nuts for oil, proved that here and
there the lowland did not lack lowlanders. The people stared at us without surprise, although
this was only the fourth time they had seen a surf-boat. The river-bed, grid-ironed with rocky
reefs, showed us twenty-two turns in a few miles; some were horseshoe-bends, sweeping clean
round to the south, and one described a curve of 170º. After slow and interrupted paddling
for an hour and a half, at 6 P.M., when night neared, we halted at the village of Esubeyah,
or 'Water-made;' [Footnote: The radical of water is 'su,' curiously corresponding with Turkish
and with that oldest of the Turkish tongues, Chinese.] and my companion made sure of his distances
by a latitudinal observation of Canopus.

Next morning we had 'English tea' for the first and last time in West Africa; usually we preferred
the Russian form, drunk in a tumbler with a slice of lime that sinks or of lemon that floats.
Mr. Gillett had given us a bottle of 'Romanshorn' from the Swiss farm, an admirable preparation
which also yields fresh butter. The price is high, 1s. 6d. a bottle, or, for the case of forty-eight
imperial pints, 72s.; this, however, is the Coast, not the cost figure. For invalids, who are
nauseated by the sickly, over-sugared stuff popularly called 'tin-juice,' and who feel life
put in them by rum and milk, it is an invaluable comfort.

We left Esubeyah in the 'lizard's sun' at 7 A.M., and found the river changed for the worse.
The freshets had uptorn from the banks the tallest trees, which in places formed a timber-floor;
and the surf-boat gallantly charged, till she leaked, the huge trunks, over which she had often
to be lifted. Nothing would be easier than to clear away these obstacles; a few pounds of gun-cotton
would remove snags and sawyers, and dredging by boats would do the rest. Then Prince's River
would become an excellent highway.

An hour and a half's slow paddling placed us at the landing-place of Bekaí (a village in general),
the usual hole in the bush. Here navigation ends in the dry season. We walked to and through
the mean little settlement, and established ourselves at Anima-kru, [Footnote: The English
'croom' is a corruption of kru-mu or krum, 'in the village.' Properly speaking 'kru' and 'man'
are the town, or common centre of many akura (plantation-hamlets), in which the owners keep
their families and familiæ.] a mile from the landing-place on the Yenna, or Prince's River.
It faces a splendidly wooded mound upon the right or opposite bank. Mrá Kwámi, the headman,
received us hospitably, cleared a house, and offered us the usual palm-wine and snuff: the
powder, composed of tobacco, ginger, and cloves, is boxed in a round wild fruit.

The village contained only two men; the rest were drinking, at Prince's town, the proceeds
of a puncheon of palm-oil. The plantations still showed fruits and flowers probably left by
the Portuguese--wild oranges, mangoes, limes, pine-apples, and the 'four o'clock,' a kind of
'marvel of Peru,' supposed to open at that hour. The houses, crépi or parget below and bamboo
above, are mere band-boxes raised from the ground; the smaller perfectly imitated poultry-crates.
All appeared unusually neat and clean, with ornamental sheets of clam-shells trodden into the
earth before the thresholds. 'Fetish' was abundant, and so was that worst of all plagues the
sand-fly.

After breakfasting we set out north over a sandy level, clearly reclaimed from the sea, and
in a few minutes struck the true coast. Here begins the St. John mining-ground, conceded for
prospecting to Messieurs Gillett and Selby. A fair path runs up hillocks of red-yellow clay,
metalled with rounded quartz and ironstone-gravel, roped with roots and barred with trees;
their greatest elevation may have been 120 feet. Two parallel ridges, trending north-north-east,
are bisected by torrents pouring westward to the river: now dry, they have rolled down huge
boulders in their frequent floods. These 'hard-heads,' which try the hammer, show a revetment
of cellular iron upon a solid core of greenstone and bluish trap. Some fragments not a little
resembled the clay-slates of the Brazilian gold-mines. Such was the concession which we named
São João do Principe.

Presently the chief, Mrá Kwámi, announced to us that we had reached the northern boundary-line
of the estate. He now would have left us, as it is not customary, when gold is in question,
for one head-man to enter another's country. We succeeded, however, in persuading him to show
us the other side of the river. A short walk up and down hill led to the ford of the 'Yenna,'
the native name, probably a corruption of 'St. John.' It lies a little above the dyke where
the stream breaks into a dwarf fall, and below the crossing where a ferry formerly plied. We
now found a regular river, no longer a lagoon-stream; the clear water, most unlike the matter-suspending
and bitumen-coloured fluid of the lower bed, was beautified by lilies with long leaves and
broad flowers of virgin white.

We rode the Kruboys pick-a-back across the broken reef through which the stream bursts and
brawls, and walked a few paces up the left bank to the Kumasi [Footnote: The Ashantis translate
the word 'under the Kum-tree;' the Fantis make it mean 'slay all.'] village. It had been lately
deserted; but we found there Kwáko Benta, headman of Ajámera, who had spent a week in forcing
the deserters to rejoin the corps. He was the reverse of cordial, probably wishing at once
to prove importance and to give our guide the cold shoulder: we persuaded him, however, to
show us the Muku concession, granted to Messieurs Lintott and Spink.

The ground which fronts the reef-ford reflects that of the left bank, and is pitted with diggings,
large and small. In a dry torrent-bed, running north-south, was an oblong shaft, a native copy
of European work, four feet by six, and timbered in the usual negro way. Its further bank was
a high and steep slope of yellow clay with a midway step, containing another and a similar
shaft: to the north and west were many other signs of exploitation. The rich-looking quartz
of the lode is white and sugary, with black streaks and veins: its strike is nearly meridional,
between north 20º and 25º east, and the dip 40º-45º east. A glance shows that Fluthwerk and
'hydraulicking' would easily wash down the whole alluvial and auriferous formation to the floor
of grey granite which has supplied the huge 'cankey-stones' [Footnote: This proto-historic
implement, also called a 'saddle-quern,' is here made out of a thick slab of granite slightly
concave and artificially roughened. The muller, or mealing-stone, is a large, heavy, and oval
rolling-pin used with the normal rocking and grinding motion. These rollers are also used for
crushing ore, and correspond with the stone polissoirs of ancient date.] littering the village.
Cameron, who had before visited the site, and had remarked how vigorously the placer-gravels
had been attacked by the natives, would 'hydraulick' by means of the St. John's River. This
might also be done by damming up and tapping the adjacent bottom. And, if routine work be wanted,
it would cost little to construct upon the topmost crest a large reservoir with channels to
conduct the rains, and thus secure a fair fall for the water.

We slept once more at Anima-kru; and here Cameron made sure of his position by Jupiter and
Procyon, and by his valuable watch-chronometer, the gift of his brother-officers: it worked
peculiarly well. The St. John's mine lies in north lat. 4º 49' 44", and in west long. (G.)
2º 6' 44". While the owners would place it seven miles from the sea, it is distant only 2.2
from 'old Fort Brandenburg.' Early next morning we packed and prepared for return, the chief
Mrá Kwámi insisting upon escorting us. And now the difference of travel in Africa and England
struck me forcibly. Fancy a band of negro explorers marching uninvited through the Squire's
manor, strewing his lawn and tennis-ground with all manner of rubbish; housing their belongings
in his dining- and drawing- and best bed-rooms, which are at once vacated by his wife and family;
turning his cook out of his or her kitchen; calling for the keys of his dairy and poultry-yard,
hot-houses, and cellar; and rummaging the whole mansion for curios and heirlooms interesting
to the negro anthropologist. Fancy also their bidding him to be ready next morning for sporting
and collecting purposes, with all his pet servants, his steward and his head-gardener, his
stud-groom and his gamekeeper; and allowing, by way of condescension, Mr. Squire to carry their
spears, bows, and arrows; bitterly deriding his weapons the while, as they proceed to whip
his trout-stream, to pluck his pet plants, to shoot his pheasants, and to kill specimens of
his rarest birds for exhibition in Africa. Fancy their enquiring curiously about his superstitions,
sitting in his pew, asking for bits of his East window, and criticising his 'fetish' in general,
ending with patting him upon the back and calling him a 'jolly old cock.' Finally, fancy the
Squire greatly enjoying such treatment, and feeling bitterly hurt unless handled after this
fashion. Paddling down stream, we collected for Kew. But the hopelessness of the task weighs
upon the spirits: a square mile of such flora would take a week. There is a prodigious variety
of vegetation, and the quantity of edible berries, 'fowl's lard,' 'Ashanti-papaw,' and the
Guinea-peach (Sarcophalus esculentus) would gladden the heart of a gorilla. Every larger palm-trunk
was a fernery; every dead bole was an orchidry; and huge fungi, two feet broad, fed upon the
remains of their victims. Climbers, chiefly papilionaceous, and llianas, bigger than the biggest
boa-constrictor, coiled and writhed round the great gloomy trees which rained their darkness
below. In the sunlight were pretty jasmines (J. grande), crotons and lantanas, with marantas,
whose broad green leafage was lined with pink and purple. Deep in shadow lay black miry sloughs
of sickening odour, near which the bed of Father Thames at low water would be scented with
rose-water; and the caverns, formed by the arching roots of the muddy mangrove, looked haunts
fit for crocodile and behemoth and all manner of unclean, deadly beasts. And there are little
miseries for African collectors. 'Wait-a-bit' thorns tear clothes and skin. Tree-snakes turn
the Kru-boys not pale but the colour of boiled liver; their 'bowels fail them,' as the natives
say. Each tree has its ant, big or small, black or red; and all sting more or less. We see
their armies marching up the trunks, and the brush of a bough brings down a little shower.
Monstrous mangrove-flies and small brown-coloured 'huri,' most spiteful biters, and wasps here
and there, assail the canoe; and we are happy if we escape a swarm of the wild bees: their
curious, treacle-like honey is enjoyed by the people.

We landed in due time at 'Prinsi,' whose civilised chief had laid out a clean path, lined with
umbrella-figs backed by a bush of self-sown guavas. A good upper-storied house was found for
us, with standing bedsteads, sofa, table, and chairs. It belonged to one of the penins, or
elders. The chapel, with its three front and five lateral windows, is the best we have yet
seen. The schoolmaster, Mr. Sego, lives in a house hard by; and the adjacent school, a wattled
cottage, echoes to the voices of some thirty to forty scholars. The town looks prosperous.
Building is easy; oysters and other shells supply lime; the clay dug to the north makes good
adobes, and stone is easily quarried from the old fort.

We found Prince's in a state of unusual jollity, drinking the proceeds of their three puncheons,
dancing and playing what Sá Leone calls 'warry.' [Footnote: A game with counters and holes
in the ground or a board hollowed with cups. The same, called báo, or tables, is found in East
Africa (Zanzibar) and Cameron traced it extending clear across the Dark Continent.] The bell
and the psalm blended curiously with the song and the palm-clapping that announces negro terpsichore.
Of course 'fetish' was present, in the shape of a woman peculiarly ornamented. Her very black
face was dazzlingly chalked, lines by threes running from hair-roots to nose-bridge and meeting
others drawn across the temples; the orbits of the eyes were whitened, and thence triple streaks
stretched up the nose and across the cheeks. Hung to the extensive necklace of beads and other
matters were tassels of dry white fibre; her forearms carried yellow bunches of similar material,
and she held a broom of blackened bamboo and the metal bell familiar to Unyamwezi. Whilst the
juniors danced and sang the elders drank and gambled.

After a cool and comfortable night we visited the ruins which Bosman calls Casteel Groot Frederiksburg
tot Pocquesoe (Prince's). Our Hydrographic Chart has 'old fort Brandenburg,' which is at Cape
Threepoints. Others declare that it was the only good establishment owned by the Elector; and
the best authority, Lieut. Jeekel, terms it G Friedrichsburg (Hollandia). I may note that 'Prinsi
'Ollandia' is still the native name. These buildings interest us greatly, because in the coming
days of immigration they will serve for hospitals, stores, and barracoons. Ascending a few
feet of bushy hill, called in books 'Mamfra,' and once evidently an island, we came upon the
eastern flank, three substantial bastions and a cavalier, with masonry knitted by creepers.
We then wound round by the southern or sea side, and, turning the angle, made the eastern flank.
The gateway, stockade, and belfry shown in Bosman ('Eerste Brief,' 1737) have disappeared;
so also has the slave-court, but the double doorway remains. The spacious centre, planted with
bananas almost wild, would make a grand garden; the walls are built to stand for ages; and,
although the floors of the upper stories have been torn down, there would be no difficulty
in restoring them. As steps and stairs are absent, it was not possible to reach the battlements.
These are luxuriant with vegetation, of which I should preserve a portion for shade and coolth.
A fine arched cistern now affords a shelter to bats; and a building which appears to be the
chapel remains on the northern side. Old iron guns still cumber the embrasures and the ground.

Issuing by the northern face, which has been torn down for ashlar, we set up the photographic
stand and took the north-western angle. Here an enormous fig draws its life from the death
of the wall. The morning air in the shade was delicious, a great contrast with the heavy dampness
of Axim; and the view of the St. John's River west and of Cape Threepoints east was charming.
With usual neglect the photographer had sent out his machine and dry plates without any means
of developing them; we therefore worked blindly and could not see results.

When embarking in Prince's Bay, where the surf was perfectly safe, we were informed a little
too late of a valuable gold-mine called Kokobené. It lies close behind the village Akitáki,
which we had seen during our morning's walk along the beach leading to Cape Threepoints. The
chief, Eshánchi, promised to forward specimens of the reefs, and did not forget to keep his
promise. The quartz-specimens which were brought to us at Akankon by Wafápa, or Barnabas, promised
excellently, and I authorised Mr. Grant to buy an exploring right of the Kokobené-Akitáki diggings.
Their position as well as their quality will render them valuable: they will prove a second Apatim.

We returned to Axim on February 19, after a short but very satisfactory trip which added much
to our knowledge of the coast and its ways. It had also the merit of being economical; we took
matters in hand, and consequently our four days cost us only 2l. 8s.

I have spoken much about 'hydraulicking' in this chapter, and I shall now borrow a few details
concerning the operation from Sir William Logan, who, in his 'Geological Survey of Canada,'
quotes Mr. William P. Blake. Speaking of California, the learned author writes, 'In this method
the force of a jet of water with great pressure is made available both for excavating and washing
the auriferous earth. The water, issuing in a continuous stream with great force from a large
hose-pipe like that of a fire-engine, is directed against the base of a bank of earth and gravel,
and tears it away. The bank is rapidly undermined, the gravel is loosened, violently rolled
together, and cleansed from any adhering particles of gold, while the fine clay and the sand
are carried off by the water. In this manner hundreds of tons of earth and gravel may be removed,
and all the gold which they contain liberated and secured with greater ease and expedition
than ten tons could be excavated and washed in the old way. All the earth and gravel of a deposit
is moved, washed, and carried off through long sluices by the water, leaving the gold behind.
Square acres of earth on the hill-sides may thus be swept away into the hollows without the
aid of a pick or a shovel in excavation. Water performs all the labour, moving and washing
the earth in one operation, while in excavating by hand the two processes are of necessity
entirely distinct. The value of this method and the yield of gold as compared with the older
one can hardly be estimated.

'The water acts constantly with uniform effect, and can be brought to bear upon almost any
point, where it would be difficult for men to work. It is especially effective in a region
covered by trees, where the tangled roots would greatly retard the labour of workmen. In such
places the stream of water washes out the earth from below, and tree after tree falls before
the current, any gold which may have adhered to the roots being washed away. With a pressure
of sixty feet and a pipe of from one and a half to two inches' aperture, over 1,000 bushels
of earth can be washed out from a bank in a day.

'Earth which contains only one-twenty-fifth part of a grain of gold, equal to one-fifth of
a cent in value to the bushel, may be profitably washed by this method; and any earth or gravel
which will pay the expense of washing in the old way gives enormous profits by the new process.
To wash successfully in this way requires a plentiful supply of water, at an elevation of from
fifty to ninety feet above the bed-rock, [Footnote: This is by no means necessary. The jet
can be thrown from below like the fireman's hose playing upon a burning house. I shall return
to this highly important subject.] and a rapid slope or descent from the base of the bank of
earth to be washed, so that the waste water will run off through the sluices, bearing with
it gravel, sand, and suspended clay.

       *       *       *       *       *

'In the case of a deposit in North Carolina, where ten men were required for thirty-five days
to dig the earth with pick and shovel and wash it in sluices, two men with a single jet of
water could accomplish the same work in a week. The great economy of this method is manifest
from the fact that many old deposits in the river-beds, the gravel of which had been already
washed by hand, have again been washed with profit by the hydraulic method.

'In California the whole art of working the diluvial gold-deposits was revolutionised by this
new method. The auriferous earth lying on hills and at some distance above the level of the
watercourses would in the ordinary methods be excavated by hand and brought to the water, but
by the present system the water is brought by aqueducts to the gold-deposits, and whole square
miles which were before inaccessible have yielded up their precious metal. It sometimes happens
from the irregular distribution of the gold in the diluvium in California that the upper portions
of a deposit do not contain gold enough to be washed by the ordinary methods, and would thus
have to be removed at a considerable expense in order to reach the richer portion below. By
the hydraulic method, however, the cost of cutting away and excavating is so trifling that
there is scarcely any bank of earth which will not pay the expense of washing down in order
to reach the rich deposits of gold beneath.'

To conclude. Our collection of plants was sent to the Herbarium, Kew; and, as the Appendix
(II. Part II.) shows, was kindly catalogued by the learned Professor D. Oliver.

CHAPTER XX.

FROM AXIM TO INGOTRO AND AKANKON.

After a long palaver with the three claimants to the Akankon mining-ground, Kofi Blaychi (Little
Blay), Kwáko Jum, and Safahin Sensensé (the lessor), we left Axim once more (February 24) to
inspect the head of the Ancobra river. At the sleeping-place, Kumprasi, we were visited by
Mr. Cascaden, District-commissioner for Tákwá, a fine-looking man of fifteen stone, pulled
down to twelve by dysentery. He was speedily followed to England by his remplaçant, Dr. Duke.

Next morning, when the thick white fog, which made the smoking river resemble Father Rhine
in autumn, had been licked up by fiery rays, we embarked, together with Chief Apó, of Asánta,
the honest old owner of the 'Ingotro concession.' Our conveyance was the Effuenta, a steam-launch
attached to the mine of that name, bought second-hand, and a fine specimen of what launches
ought not to be. Built by Messieurs Dickenson, of Birkenhead, she is much too small (36 feet
by 8) for a river which, even in the depth of the dries, averages two fathoms, and rarely runs
less than ten feet. The engines are over far from the boiler, and the long raking stern swells
out into a big belly worthy of a manatee or a Dutch hoy. Her boiler had been replaced with
the usual inconsequence. She had been repaired by an 'intelligent artisan,' Mr. Emery; but,
as he was allowed no tools and no time, he contented himself with reporting her in good working
order. Consequently after every half-hour we had to unscrew the safety-valve, let off steam,
and fill the boiler with a funnel and a tin pot. Pleasant three hours under a thin board-awning,
in a broiling sun, off a poisonous mangrove-swamp! Presently she had to be started by the surf-boat
lashed to one side, and a large canoe to the other. Finally, after a last breakdown, we saw
steam-launch Effuenta lying high and dry upon the beach at Sánmá.

We had nothing to complain of the engineer, Mr. William George, a Sá Leonite, and of the helmsman,
Kwámina Ekum, a Gold Coast man. Both did their best with the heavily laden trio of boats. Cameron
established himself--compass, log, lead, and dredge--in the steamer stern. His admirable geographical
labours in 'Crossing Africa' are, after a few years of a swift-moving age, lapsing Lethe-wards; and

           To have done is to hang
  Quite out of fashion, like a rusty nail
  In monumental mockery.

Now he has another opportunity of doing valuable service, none of these positions having been
established by observations, and of showing travellers how topography should be worked. He
has before him for correction the Hydrographic chart, which pretends to nothing within the
Coast, and the 'River Ankobra and Tarquah(!) Gold Mines,' printed in 1878 by Captain Louis
Wyatt, then District-commissioner for Axim. This first attempt at a regular survey is meritorious
for an amateur; but of course it cannot compare with the produce of a scientific and experienced
naval surveyor. We had Lieut. Jeekel, before alluded to, but his scale, 1:250,000, is too small
for details. I did not see, till long after our return from this excursion, the then unfinished
map by M. Paulus Dahse, a veteran West-Coaster, who has spent years in travelling through the
interior. My fellow-voyager also was the first to show me the various cartes printed and published
by the late M. Bonnat. [Footnote: Carte des Concessions de 'The African Gold Coast Company,'
par M. J. Bonnat. Paris, August 1879. Beginning south at Tumento, it does not show the southern
fork of the Bonsá or Abonsá River, which falls into the Ancobra's left bank; and it ends a
little north of Asseman, the cemetery of the 'kings.' M. Bonnat had already printed in 1877
a Chart of the River Ankobra, extending north as far as the 'Gold Mines of Aodoua.']

The Ancobra is an enlarged copy of the Yenna or Prince's River. There are the same swampy borders
and 'impenetrable forests,' as Captain Wyatt entitles them; while the mangrove never quite
disappears from this true lagoon-stream. The monotonous fringe of rhizophores is broken, about
two miles from the mouth, by bamboo-palms and hibiscus-beds, then by the bombax, the rubber-vine,
the locust-tree (inga), and the banana-plantation. The mounds and hillocks on either side,
beginning with the Akromasi and Kabudwe mounds, near the mouth, are evidently parts of an ancient
archipelago built by the mangrove and silted up to mainland. The long and curious reaches are
shown in my companion's map, and I shall notice only those details which claim something of
general interest.

After about eight miles' steaming up a huge loop to the west, and a bend easterly, we passed
the Kwábina Bosom, or Fetish-Rocks, two wall-like blocks, one mangrove-grown and the other
comparatively bare. Contrary to native usage, we chose the fair way between the latter and
the left bank, for which innovation, said our escort, we shall surely suffer.

Beyond the Fetish-Rocks the right bank shows a cleared mound ready for immediate planting:
this concession once belonged to Dr. Ross, of Axim. Opposite it the mining-ground has been
leased for prospecting by Messieurs Gillett and Selby. The notable feature of the river is
now the prawn-basket, a long cone closed at the blunt apex: the Ancobra is a 'Camarones,' supplying
a first-rate article for curries. This is the work of the uninteresting little villages, scatters
of mere crates built in holes worn in the bush; all disappear during the floods, and are rebuilt
in the dry season for growing rice and tapping palm-trees. Besides a few humans they contain
nothing save lean dogs and etiolated poultry; cattle, sheep, and even pigs are wholly unknown.

In the afternoon we pushed through a wild thunderstorm of furious tropical rain, which pitted
the river-face like musket-balls. It arose in the south; but throughout the Ancobra valley
wet weather apparently comes from all directions. Chief Apó gravely ascribed it to our taking
the wrong side of the Fetish-Rocks. I have heard, even in civilised lands, sillier post-hoc-ergò-propter-hocs.

There were two landing-places for the large Ingotro concession, both on the right bank. The
lower leads, they say, over dry land, but the way is long and hilly. That up stream is peculiarly
foul, and to us it was made fouler by the pelting shower. At low water, in the dry season,
the little Nánwá creek, subtending the higher ground on the north, becomes too shallow for
the smallest dug-out; and we had to wade or to be carried over an expanse of fetid and poisonous
mangrove-mud festering in the sun, and promising a luxuriant growth of ague and fever. The
first rise of sandy yellow loam showed the normal Gold Coast metalling of iron-stone and quartz-gravel,
thinly spread with water-rounded pebbles. Then the path, very badly laid out, merged into a
second foul morass, whose depths were crossed by the rudest of bridges, single and double trunks
of felled or fallen trees. Nothing easier than to corduroy this mauvais pas.

A second rise showed a fine reef of white and blue quartz, which runs right through the settlement
to the banks of the Nánwá stream. A quarter of an hour's walk from the landing-place placed
us in the Nánwá village, now popularly known as Walker-Kru. It consists of a few mean little
hovels, the usual cage-work, huddled together in most unpicturesque confusion. Prick-eared
curs, ducks, and fowls compose the bestial habitants, to which must be added the regiments
of rats (and ne'er a cat) which infest all these places. There were no mosquitoes, but the
sand-fly bit viciously on mornings and evenings between the dark and sunlit hours, confining
one to the dim cage and putting a veto upon the pleasant lounge or seat in the cool open. We
found lodgings in the guest-hut of the headman, Kwáko Juma, like most of his brethren, a civil
man and a greedy. But the Krumen, boatmen and carriers, were also lodged in the little settlement,
and these people always make night hideous with their songs and squabbles, their howling voices,
and hyæna-like bursts of laughter. It is very difficult to 'love one's neighbour as oneself'
when he appears in this form under these circumstances.

By times next morning we woke too soon the villagers, who enjoy long talks by night and deep
slumbers in early day. They appear much inclined to slumber again. But both Apó of Asánta and
Juma of Nánwá were exceedingly anxious to know when mining-works would begin, and, that failing,
to secure as much 'dash' as possible.

The Ingotro concession, the largest we have yet seen, measures 3,000 fathoms square, the measurements
being taken from the central shaft. Assuming every thousand fathoms roughly to represent a
geographical mile, the area would be of nine square miles. This will evidently admit of being
divided and sub-divided into half a dozen or more estates. As yet little of its wealth has
been explored, chiefly owing to the dense growth of forest. As Mr. Walker remarks, 'Although
timber is a great desideratum on a mining-estate, the thick woods have the disadvantage of
concealing many rich deposits of gold, and I have very little doubt that the diminution of
the population, and the consequent overgrowth of the bush or jungle, has much to do with the
great falling off in the production and export of gold from this region.'

The emancipation of slaves and 'pawns' would have in Africa no other effect. Free men will
not work, and 'bush,' unless kept down, will grow with terrible ferocity.

When Indian file was duly formed, we descended the Nánwá hillock, which takes its name from
the stream. Here the little rivulet, deeply encased, bore a fine growth of snowy water-lilies.
It had been newly bridged with corduroy. The next passage boasted tree-trunks, and after that
all was leaping. The Nánwá must rise near the trial-shaft, which we are about to visit, and
it snakes through the property in all directions with a general rhumb from west-north-west
to east-south-east. At this season there is little or no flow, and the bed is mostly a string
of detached pools, where gold has been washed and will be washed again. Thus the facilities
for 'hydraulicking' are superior, and the number of shallow native pits at once suggests the
properest process.

We then struck across the heavily timbered country, which is the wildest state of 'bushiness.'
A few paces led to 'King's Croom,' a deserted mining-village in a dwarf clearing rapidly overgrowing
with the Brazilian Catinga. Hereabouts we saw nothing save 'hungry quartz.' Then we struck
across three several ridges, whose slopes were notably easier on the eastern, and more abrupt
on the western side. The people had sunk several pits in places likely to yield 'kindly quartz,'
and they had made no mistakes as to the overlay of the lode, its foot-wall or its hanging-wall.

Cameron presently made an offset to the north, and, cutting his road, walked ten minutes up
the tail of Tuáko Hill, at whose southern base lies the Nánwá bed. Here, guided by Mr. Grant,
who knew the place well, he found a native shaft thirty feet deep and a lode of disintegrated
quartz in red or yellow ferruginous clay, the surface looking as rich as the stone it overlies.

A few paces further and a third drop led us again to the swampy valley of the Nánwá, here flowing
south. It is bounded by two rises, tree-grown from foot to head. That on the left bank is the
Tuáko, the husband, along whose skirt we have been walking; the other, on the opposite side,
is Jama, the wife. From their conjugal visits the gold is born. Some attempts had been made
to blast a rock in the skirt of Jama's garment; but all had notably failed. The reeking, unwholesome
bottom showed extensive traces of digging and washing.

Following the water, we came to the second little mining-village, also deserted. The name 'Ingotro'
means a broad-leaved liliaceous plant, the wura-haban (water-leaf) of the Fantis, used for
thatching when palm-fronds are not found. From this place an old bush-path once led directly
to the lands we call 'Izrah,' but it has long been closed by native squabbles. A few yards
further placed us in an exceedingly rich bottom, honeycombed by native workers. Hard by it
appeared the central shaft, lying between two hills, the Ingotro-buká and the Nánwá-buká, which
define the course of the rivulet. The distance from Nánwá village may have been three miles,
but we had spent more than three hours in making collections.

Amongst the insects was the silk-spider, a large arachnid of sulphur-yellow tint, with three
black transverse bars. It weaves no web, but spins a thread of the strongest texture and the
richest golden hue. I had sent from Fernando Po several pounds of this fine silk, intending
to experiment upon it in a veil or lace shawl; and afterwards I learned that the Empress Eugénie
had a dress made of it, which cost a fabulous number of francs. Bacon and other old writers
talk of 'spider's silk' like gathering moonbeams. [Footnote: The Ananse or Agya ananse (father
spider), as the Oji-speaking peoples call the insect, is with them either a creator of man
(corresponding so far with the scarabeus in the Nile valley) or a representative of the evil
principle. Bosman (Letter xvii.), describing a 'great hideous hairy species,' says, 'The negroes
call this spider ananse, and believe that the first men were made by that creature; and, notwithstanding
some of them by conversation with the Europeans are better informed, there are yet a great
number that remain of that opinion, out of which folly they are not to be reasoned.' The people
have a number of fables called Anansesem, such as Spider and Spiderson and the Three Ghosts;
in these spider-stories the insect, like the fox with us, is the most intelligent of animals
(the late Rev. J. Zimmermann's Akra or Gã Grammar, Stuttgart, 1858). It is represented as speaking
through the nose like the local 'bogy,' and its hobbling gait is imitated by the story-teller.
Another superstition is that the Anánu (the Akra form of the word) injures children sleeping
in the same room with it. At Fernando Po I found another valuable spider which preys upon cockroaches.
When a cruiser was particularly afflicted by the blatta, a couple of these insects would effectually
clear chests and drawers in a few days. There are other species, Entekuma, &c.]

The upper shaft had been sunk, as it should be, in the eastern flank of the hill, which faces
north 71º east, and which runs north 3º west (both true). The surface and subsoil are the usual
sandy loam scattered with gravel of quartz and ironstone, and the spoil-banks showed blue and
white quartz. The clay-slate, dark, soft, and laminated, appeared everywhere. Lower down, on
the same slope, Mr. Grant had dug a second shaft, somewhat smaller than the upper: both were
full of rain-water. Mr. Walker mentions a large native pit near the centre, whence rich stone
had been taken. He picked up from the refuse several pieces of quartz showing free gold, which
gave, when assayed, 2.6 oz. gold and 0.3 oz. silver per ton. This was from a depth of only
ten feet. His own trial-shaft, when he left the Coast, was not more than three feet deep; but
every sample showed traces of gold, and an Australian miner of thirty years' experience declared
that the 'stuff' promised a rich yield below. Like ourselves, he found the whole country 'impregnated
with gold.' On the path within fifty yards of the Nánwá village we knocked off some pieces
of quartz that displayed the precious ore to the naked eye.

The slope in which the two shafts had been sunk fell into a depression between the hills which
indicated the richest surface-diggings. Here a number of detached sinkings had been run together
by the recent rains into a long miry pool. Mr. Walker also speaks of a 'very large number of
shallow native pits.' No one could see this exceedingly rich 'gulch' without determining that
it should be washed upon the largest scale. It will be time to sink shafts and make deep diggings
here when sluicing and surfacing shall have done their work.

From Ingotro we marched back to Nánwá and took leave of Chief Apó; his parting words were a
request that work might be begun as soon as possible, and that at any rate his concession should
be properly marked out. The limitation must not be neglected, but the exploitation of the diggings
is another affair. The ground is exceptionally rich in gold, and it offers every facility for
extracting the metal. But the climate of the lowlands presents difficulties. In so large an
area of broken ground, however, there are eminences that command a prospect of the sea and
which are within the influence of the sea-breeze. The conditions will, doubtless, improve when
the adjacent mining-grounds, Inyoko and Izrah, shall have been opened and the country cleared
and ventilated. In the meantime light works and hydraulicking on an extensive scale might be
begun at once, especially during the rainy season, under seasoned and acclimatised overseers.
An amelioration must be the result, and even before the rich surface has been washed it will
be possible to set up heavy machinery for deep working, shafting, and tunnelling.

Embarking about 3 P.M. on board Effuenta, we steamed up the Ancobra, which here looks more
like a river and less like a lagoon. The settlements become more important, the first being
Nfia-kru, or the 'dog-village.' There were many influents, which showed like dark breaches
in the rampart of verdure. Such was the Ahema (Huma), a creek that breaks the left bank. This
name may become memorable. Upon its upper course Messieurs Gillett and Selby have a small mining
concession, and in its golden gravels Mr. O. Pegler, Associate of the School of Mines, found
a crystal which he strongly suspected to be a diamond. It was taken to Axim, where its glass-cutting
properties were proved. Unfortunately during one of these trials the setting gave way, and
the stone fell into a heap of rubbish, where it could not be found. Many have suspected that
these regions will prove diamantiferous; and it is reported that an experienced French mineralogist,
who has visited the South African diggings, landed at Assini and proposed to canoe up the Tando
River to the Tákwá mines, prospecting in search of his specialty.

A portentous cloud ahead growled its thunder and discharged thin rain, while the westing sun
shone clear and bright. In Dahome the combination suggests the ghosts of Kutomen going to market,
[Footnote: The Akra-men make Sisaman, their Kutomen, Scheol or Hades, a town on one of the
Volta holms or somewhere beyond. The Gold Coast has three species of departed 'spirits' (asamanfo)--the
shades of men who fell in fight or by accident (as by a tree-fall); common spirits, and lingering
spirits, so called because they do not enter Shade-land, but hover about man's dwellings. The
slain never associate with the commonalty; they walk about rubbed with white clay and clad
in white; nor are they afraid of, whereas the others fly from, and are unwilling to be seen
by, the living. 'It is said in the Dead-land below the earth there are kings as well as slaves.
If you have been long sick in this world you will recover health there after three years, but
one killed in battle or by accident will be well in a month or so. It is said that Dead-land
is below (earth); others declare it is above (the sky). About this there is no certainty. Where
one is taken to when he dies there his spirit is; when they die and take you to the spirits'
grove, then your spirit is in the grove. The town (or land) of the departed spirits is not
in the grove, but in the earth; it is a large town, and going there a mountain has to be climbed.
The way of one who died a natural death is dark in heaven; but if one who died in battle or
by accident take that way, some of the white clay with which he is rubbed falls down; therefore
his way (via lactea) appears white. In the spirits' grove the departed spirits do not stay
always; only on certain days they assemble there for eating, drinking, and playing.' Yet these
'spiritualists' (with the spirits) have scant pleasure in contemplating the future. Their proverb
is, 'A corner in the world of matter is better than a world of spirits,'--Page 407, Dictionary
of the Asante and Fante Languages, by Rev. J. G. Christaller.] in Fanti-land the hunchback
woman becoming a mother, and in England his Satanic Majesty beating his wife. Off the Eketekki
village we saw, for the first time, bad snags, which will require removal. About sunset the
Aka-kru settlement, the largest yet noted, appeared on the left bank. Here the Akankon Mining
Company has a native house of wattle and dab, looking somewhat better than the normal mud-cabin.
It had been unceremoniously occupied by natives, who roared their laughter when ordered to
turn out. From Aka-kru there is a direct line to the Effuenta, within an hour's walk of the
Tákwá mine; the four stages can be covered in twenty hours. [Footnote: Mr. Gillett, who had
lately passed over it, gave me these notes on the line. No. 1 stage from Aka-kru crosses virgin
land, the property of the 'King' of Axim, to Autobrun (three hours); No. 2 leads over fine
level ground to Dompé (nine hours slow); No. 3 to Abrafu, on the Abonsá River, one march south
of the Abonsá station (three hours); No. 4 to the Effuenta mine (five hours).]

At 6.30 P.M. we saw, a little above Aka-kru, and also on the left bank, Jyachabo, or 'Silver-'
(Jyácho) 'stone.' Of this settlement Captain Wyatt notes, 'It is said that a silver-mine was
formerly worked here by the Dutch and Portuguese.' Hard by the north of it lie the ruins of
the old Hollanders' fort, St. John, which the natives have corrupted to 'Senchorsu;' the people,
however, did not seem to know their whereabouts. We determined to push on to Akankon, despite
the ugly prospect of a dark walk through the wet bush, and of deferring the survey to another
time. Suddenly we saw on the right bank the black silhouette of a house, standing high and
lone in its clearing, and we made fast to a good landing-place, an inclined plane of corduroy.
It was an unexpected pleasure; both had been put up after Cameron left the mine by the native
caretaker, Mr. Morris.

We slept soundly through a cool and pleasant night at 'Riverside House.' The large building
of palm-fronds, with a roof like the lid of a lunch-basket, contains three rooms, and will
be provided with outhouses. Inside and outside it is whitewashed above and blackwashed below.
The coal-tar was suggested by my nautical companion; and, for the first time on the Ancobra
River, we exchanged the bouquet d'Afrique for the smell of Europe. The big crate stands high
upon the right bank, here rising about twenty feet, and affording a pleasant prospect of breezy
brown stream deeply encased in bright green forest. The draught caused by flowing water keeps
the clearing clean of sand-flies, the pest of the inner settlements, and European employés
will find the place healthy. The up-sloping ground behind the house could be laid out in a
pottage-garden; and, as Bahama-grass grows fast, there will be no difficulty about disposing
of the under-growth.

Next morning (February 27) we were joined by Mr. Morris, who told the long tale of his grievances.
He had been in charge of ten men for five months, during which he had not received a farthing
of pay. Consequently his gang had struck work. Thus chatting we followed the cleared path leading
up the right bank of the little Akankon creek: now dry, it is navigable for canoes during the
rains, and falls into the Ancobra under a good corduroy bridge near the landing-ramp. A line
of posts showed the levels which had been carefully marked by Cameron. It was a pleasure to
see the bed; it had been scraped in many places by the gold-washer, and it promises an ample
harvest when properly worked. We left on the left hand Safahin Sensensé's village, a cluster
of huts surrounded by bananas; we crossed the shallow head of the creek, all a swamp during
the rains; we walked up a dwarf slope, and after half an hour we found ourselves at 'Granton.'

The position of Granton is not happily chosen. Though the hill-side faces south it is beyond
reach of the sea-breeze; the damp and wooded depression breeds swarms of sand-flies, and being
only forty feet above the river, it is reeking hot. The thermometer about noon never showed
less than 92º (F.), and often rose to 96º; in the Rains it falls to 72º, and the nights are
cold with damp. It will be a question which season will here prove the safest for working.
On the coast I should say the Rains; in the higher lands about the Effuenta mine I am told
that the Dries must be preferred.

Granton is, or was, composed of eight tenements disposed to form a hollow square. Five of them
are native cages of frond and thatch, which I should have preferred on a second visit. The
rest are planks brought from Europe, good carpentry-work, and raised a little off the ground.
Unfortunately the bulkheads are close above, instead of being latticed for draught. The items
are two boxes--sleeping-room and store-room--with a larger lodging of four rooms which sadly
wants a flying-roof. The offices are kept in good order by the penniless caretaker, who has
been left entirely without supplies, and who is obliged to borrow our ink-bottles.

We lost no time in visiting the 'Akankon' reef, a word appropriately meaning 'abandoned' or
'left alone.' The people, however, understand it in the sense that, when a miner has taken
possession of the ground, and has shown a right to it, his fellows leave him to work and betake
themselves elsewhere. Immediately behind the huts we came upon a broad streak cochineal-red,
except where tarnished by oxygen, where it looked superficially like ochre. The strike ran
parallel with the quartz-reef, north 5º east (true). Cameron had broken some of the stone into
chips, subjected it to the blow-pipe, and obtained bright globules of quicksilver. Veins of
sulphide of mercury, cinnabar, or vermilion have been found in other parts of the Protectorate:
we suspected their presence at Apatim, and collected specimens, still to be assayed. The natives
have an idea that when 'the gold turns white' it is uncanny to work the place; moreover, silver
is always removed from the person when miners approach the gold-diggings. I should explain
the phenomenon by the presence of mercury.

A good road, with side-drains, running about half a mile to the north, has been kept open by
the care-taker. To its right is a manner of hillock, evidently an old plantation, in some places
replanted. From the top a view to the west shows three several ridges, the Akankon proper,
Ijimunbukai, and Agunah, blue in the distance. Northwards the Akankon hog's-back is seen sweeping
riverwards from north to north-east, rising to the hill Akankon-bukah. Here Mr. Amondsen, a
Danish sailor long employed in Messieurs Swanzy's local sailing craft, and lately sent out
by the Company, informed me that he proposed to transfer the quarters for European employés.
He has, however, I am told, changed his mind and built upon 'Plantation Hillock.' On the left
or western side of the road the Akankon ridge is subtended by a hollow, the valley of a streamlet
in rainy weather. This supply, which can easily be made perennial, will greatly facilitate
washing. The highway ended in a depression, where stood the deserted 'Krumen's quarters.' The
only sign of work was a peculiar cross-cut made by Mr. Cornish, C.E., one of the engineers.

From this point, turning abruptly from north to west, we took the steep narrow path which climbs
the Akankon ridge, rising 78 feet above the river. A few paces led us to the prospecting shaft,
a native pit squared and timbered by Mr. Cornish. He was assisted by Mr. James B. Ross, 'practical
miner, working manager, and mine-owner for the last twenty years in Queensland, Australia.'
He thus describes himself in the very able report which he sent to his company; and I am glad
to hear that he has returned to the Gold Coast. The shaft, 40 feet from 'the outcrop,' and
50 from the hill-base, is bottomed at the depth of 52 feet. Unfortunately it is only box-timbered,
and much of the woodwork was shaken down by the blasts. The sinking through stiff clay, stained
with iron, cobalt, manganese, and cinnabar, was reported easy. But where the hanging and foot
walls should have been, fragments of clay, iron, and mica-slate showed that the former lie
still deeper. My companion proposed a descent into the shaft by bucket and windlass. I declined,
greatly distrusting such deserted pits, especially in this region, where they appear unusually
liable to foul. Two days afterwards a Kruboy went down and was brought to grass almost insensible
from the choke-damp; his hands clenched the rope so tightly that their grip was hard to loose.

We then mounted to 'the outcrop' near the ridge-summit, 100 yards north-north-east. This reef-crest
is a tongue of quartz and quartzite veining grey granite: it was found dug out and cleared
all round by the people. Mr. Cornish had contented himself with splitting off a fragment by
a shot or two.

When the whole hill shall have been properly washed, the contained reefs will present this
wall-like appearance. The dimensions are ten feet long by the same height and half that thickness,
and the slope shows an angle of 40º. We passed onwards to the top of the ridge, winding among
the pits and round holes sunk by the native miners in order to work the casing of the reef.
One of these, carefully measured, showed 82 feet. About sixty yards to the north-north-east
we reached the crest of what Mr. Ross calls 'Ponsonby Hill.' He notices that the strike of
the quartz, which shows visible gold, is from north-north-east to south-south-west, and its
underlie to the south-east is at the ratio of one inch in twelve. Cameron found that near the
head of the descent, 120 feet to the plain below, three, and perhaps four lodes meet. The true
bed, with a measured thickness of 157 feet, strikes north 22º east, the western 355º, and the
eastern north 37º east (true). All radiate from one point, a knot which gives 'great expectations.'
The natives have opened large man-holes in search of loose gold, and here, tradition says,
many nuggets have been found. A greater number will come to light when the miners shall dig
the 'blind creek' to the east, and when the roots of the secular trees crowning the summit
shall be laid bare by the hose. I would wash down and sluice the whole of the Akankon ridge.

Next day we proceeded to inspect two other reefs lying to the south-west and to the south-east.
The first, Asan-kumá(?), lies a few yards from Granton, on the left of the path leading to
our landing-place. The ground was covered with deep bush, and painfully infested with the Nkran,
or enkran, [Footnote: Anglicè the 'driver,' a small black formica which bites severely, clears
out houses, destroys the smaller animals, and has, it is said, overpowered and destroyed hunters
when, torpid with fatigue, they have fallen asleep in the bush. The same horrible end, being
eaten alive, atom by atom, has befallen white traders whose sickness prevented their escape.
'Accra,' which calls itself Ga, is known to the Oji-speaking peoples as 'Enkran,' and must
be translated 'Land of Drivers,' not of White Ants.] which marched in detached but parallel
lines. It rises gently in slopes of yellow clay towards the west, and doubtless it covers quartz-reefs,
as the lay is the usual meridional. The talus, pitted with the shallow pans called 'women's
washings,' shows signs of hard work, probably dating from the days when every headman had his
gang of 'pawns' and slaves. Rising at the head of the creek, itself a natural gold-sluice,
its bed and banks can carry any number of flumes, which would deposit their precious burden
in cisterns near the river. I need hardly say they must be made movable, so as to raise their
level above the inundation. Here the one thing wanted would be a miner accustomed to 'hydraulicking'
in California or British Columbia, Australia or South Africa. I hope that the work will not
be placed in inexperienced hands, whose blunders of ignorance will give the invaluable and
infallible process a bad name.

Retracing our steps, we made the chief Sensensé's village, and persuaded him to guide us. The
short cut led through a forest and a swamp, which reeked with nauseating sulphuretted hydrogen.
We avoided it on return by a détour. After a short hour's walk we ascended a banana-grown hillock,
upon which lay the ruins of the little mining-village Abesebá. A few paces further, through
a forest rich in gamboge and dragon's blood (not the D. draco), in rubber and in gutta-percha
(?), where well-laden lime-trees gave out their perfume, placed us upon the great south-eastern
reef. It was everywhere drilled with pits, and we obtained fine specimens from one which measured
twenty feet deep. Several of them were united by rude and dangerous tunnels. I have heard of
these galleries being pierced in other places; but the process is not common, and has probably
been copied from Europeans.

On March 1 was held a formal palaver of headmen and elders. The Akankon concession had been
bought by Messieurs Bonnat and Wyatt from Sensensé of the fetish, whose ancestors, he declared,
had long ruled the whole country. The rent, they say, was small--$4 per mensem and 15 pereguins
(135l. [Footnote: Assuming at 9l. the pereguin, which others reduce at 8l. and others raise
to 10l.]) per annum--when operations began. I have heard these gentlemen blamed, and very unjustly,
for buying so cheap and selling so dear--17,000l. in cash and 33,000l. in shares. But the conditions
were well worth the native's acceptance; and, if he be satisfied, no one can complain. The
apparently large amount included the expenses of 'bringing out' the mine; and these probably
swallowed a half. When Sensensé received his pay, a host of rival claimants started up. In
these lands there is no law against trespass; wherever a plantation is deserted the squatter
may occupy it, and popular opinion allows him and his descendants the permanent right of using,
letting, or selling it. I do not think, however, that this rule would apply to a white man.

Sensensé's claims were contested by three chiefs--Kofi Blay-chi, Kwáko Bukári, who brought
an acute advocate, Ebba of Axim, and Kwáko Jum, a fine specimen of the sea-lawyer; this bumptious
black had pulled down the board which marked the Abesebá reef, and had worked the pits to his
own profit. After many meetings, of which the present was our last, the litigants decided that
hire and 'dashes' should be shared by only two, Sensensé and Kofi Blay-chi. Energetic Jum,
finding his pretensions formally ignored, jumped up and at once set out to 'enter a protest'
in legal form at Axim.

The crowd of notables present affixed their marks, which, however, they by no means connected
with the 'sign of the Cross.' We witnessed the document, and a case of trade-gin concluded
an unpleasant business that threatened the Apatim as well as the Akankon concession. I repeat
what I have before noted: too much care cannot be taken when title to ground in Africa is concerned.
And a Registration Office is much wanted at head-quarters; otherwise we may expect endless
litigation and the advent of the London attorney. Moreover, the people are fast learning foreign
ideas. Sensensé, for instance, is nephew (sister's son) to Blay-chi, which relationship in
Black-land makes him the heir: meanwhile his affectionate uncle works upon the knowledge that
this style of succession does not hold good in England.

The eventful evening ended with a ball, which demanded another distribution of gin. The dance
was a compound affair. The Krumen had their own. Forming an Indian file for attack, they carried
bits of board instead of weapons; and it was well that they did so, the warlike performance
causing immense excitement. The Apollonians preferred wide skirts and the pas seul of an amatory
nature; it caused shrieks of laughter, and at last even the women and wees could not prevent
joining in the sport. Years ago I began to collect notes upon the dances of the world; and
the desultory labour of some months convinced me that an exhaustive monograph, supposing such
thing possible, would take a fair slice out of a man's life. I learnt, however, one general
rule--that all the myriad forms of dancing originally express only love and war, in African
parlance 'woman-palaver' and 'land-palaver.' However much the 'quiet grace of high refinement'
may disguise original significance, Nature will sometimes return despite the pitchfork; witness
a bal de l'Opéra in the palmy days of the Second Empire.

The Kruman ball ended in a battle royal. The results were muzzles swollen and puffed out like
those of mandrills, and black eyes--that is to say, blood-red orbits where the skin had been
abraded by fist and stick. As they applied to us for justice and redress, we administered it,
after 'seeing face and back,' or hearing both sides, by a general cutting-off of the gin-supply
and a temporary stoppage of 'Sunday-beef.'

I cannot leave this rich and unhappy Akankon mine without a few reflections; it so admirably
solves the problem 'how not to do it.' The concession was negotiated in 1878. In April 1881
Cameron proceeded to open operations, accompanied by the grantee and four Englishmen, engineers
and miners. He was, however, restricted to giving advice, and was not permitted to command.
The results, as we have seen, were a round shaft made square and a cross-cut which cut nothing.
As little more appeared likely to be done, and harmony was not the order of the day, my companion
sent the party home in June 1881, and followed it himself shortly afterwards. Since that time
the Company has been spending much money and making nil. The council-room has been a barren
battle-field over a choice of superintendents and the properest kind of machinery, London-work
being pitted, for 'palm-oil' in commission-shape, against provincial work. And at the moment
I write (May 1, 1882), when 7,000l. have been spent or wasted, the shares, 10s. in the pound
paid up, may be bought for a quarter. I can only hope that Mr. Amondsen, who met me at Axim,
may follow my suggestions and send home alluvial gold.

Cameron's most sensible advice concerning the local establishment required for Akankon was
as follows:--

He laid down the total expenditure at 21,000l. per annum, including expenses in England. This
sum would work 100 tons per diem with 350 hands (each at 1s. hire and 3d. subsistence-money)
and sixteen cooks and servants. The staff would consist of six officers. The manager should
draw 800l. (not 1,200l.), and the surgeon, absolutely necessary in case of accidents, 450l.
with rations. This is the pay of Government, which does not allow subsistence. The reduction-officer
and the book-keeper are rated at 500l., and the superintendent of works and the head-miner
each at 240l. The pay of carpenters and other mechanics, who should know how to make small
castings, would range from 180l. to 150l. The first native clerk and the store-keeper would
be paid 100l.; the time-keeper, with three assistants, 70l. and 65l. The manager requires office,
sitting-room, and bedroom, and the medico a dispensary; the other four would have separate
sleeping-places and a common parlour. Each room would have its small German stove for burning
mangrove-fuel; and a fire-engine should be handy on every establishment. All the white employés
would mess together, unless it be found advisable to make two divisions. The house would be
of the usual pitch-pine boarding on piles, like those of Lagos, omitting the common passage
or gallery, which threatens uncleanness; and the rooms might be made gay with pictures and
coloured prints. The natives would build bamboo-huts.

Cameron, well knowing what ennui in Africa means, would send out a billiard-table and a good
lathe: he also proposed a skittle- or bowling-alley, a ground for lawn-tennis under a shed,
an ice-machine and one for making soda-water. Each establishment would have its library, a
good atlas, a few works of reference, and treatises on mining, machinery, and natural history.
The bulk would be the cheap novels (each 4d.) in which weary men delight. In addition to the
'Mining Journal,' the 'Illustrated,' and the comics, local and country papers should be sent
out; exiles care more for the 'Little Pedlington Courant' than for the 'journal of the City,'
the 'Times.'

Gardening should be encouraged. The vegetables would be occros (hibiscus) and brinjalls, lettuce,
tomatoes, and marrow; yam and sweet potatoes, pumpkins, peppers and cucumbers, whose seeds
yield a fine-flavoured salad-oil not sold in London. The fruits are grapes and pine-apples,
limes and oranges, mangoes and melons, papaws and a long list of native growth. Nor should
flowers be neglected, especially the pink and the rose. The land, fenced in for privacy, would
produce in abundance holeus-millet, rice, and lucern for beasts. There would be a breeding-ground
for black cattle, sheep, goats, and pigs, and a poultry-yard protected against wild cats.

The routine-day would be as follows: At 5.15 A.M. first bell, and notice to 'turn out;' at
5.40 the 'little breakfast' of tea or coffee, bread-and-butter, or toast, ham and eggs. The
five working-hours of morning (6-11 A.M.) to be followed by a substantial déjeuner à la fourchette
at 11.30. Each would have a pint of beer or claret, and be allowed one bottle of whisky a week.
Mr. Ross, the miner, preferred breakfast at 8 A.M., dinner at 1 P.M., and 'tea' at 5 P.M.;
but these hours leave scant room for work.

The warning-bell, at 12.45 P.M., after 1 hr. 45 min. rest, would prepare the men to fall in,
and return to work at 1 P.M.; and the afternoon-spell would last till 5.30. Thus the working-day
contains 9 hrs. 30 min. Dinner would be served at any time after 6 P.M., and the allowance
of liquor be that of the breakfast. An occasional holiday to Axim should be allowed, in order
to correct the monotony of jungle-life.

CHAPTER XXI.

TO TUMENTO, THE 'GREAT CENTRAL DEPÔT.'

March 4 was a sore trial to us both. We 'went down' on the same day and by our own fault. We
had given the sorely-abused climate no chance; nor have we any right to abuse it instead of
blaming ourselves. The stranger should begin work quietly in these regions; living, if possible,
near the coast and gradually increasing his exercise and exposure. Within three months, especially
if he be lucky enough to pass through a mild 'seasoning' of ague and fever, he becomes 'acclimatised,'
the consecrated term for a European shorn of his redundant health, strength, and vigour. Medical
men warn new comers, and for years we had read their warnings, against the 'exhaustion of the
physical powers of the body from over-exertion.' They prescribe gentle constitutionals to men
whose hours must do the work of days. It is like ordering a pauper-patient generous diet in
the shape of port and beef-steaks; for the safe system, which takes a quarter of a year, would
have swallowed up all our time. Consequently we worked too hard. Our mornings and evenings
were spent in collecting, and our days in boating, or in walking instead of hammocking. Indeed,
we placed, by way of derision, the Krumen in the fashionable vehicle. And we had been too confident
in our past 'seasoning;' we had neglected such simple precautions as morning and evening fires
and mosquito-bars at night; finally, we had exposed ourselves somewhat recklessly to sickly
sun and sweltering swamp. Four days on the burning hill-side completed the work. My companion
was prostrated by a bilious attack, I by ague and fever.

'I thought you were at least fever-proof,' says the candid friend, as if one had compromised
oneself.

Alas! no: a man is not fever-proof in Africa till he takes permanent possession of his little
landed estate. Happily we had our remedies at hand. There was no medico within hail; and, had
there been, we should have hesitated to call him in. These gentlemen are Government servants,
who add to their official salaries (400l. per annum) by private practice. For five visits to
a sick Kruboy six guineas have been charged; 5l. for tapping a liver and sending two draughts
and a box of pills, and 37l. 10s. for treating a mild tertian which lasted a week. The late
M. Bonnat cost 80l. for a fortnight. Such fees should attract a host of talented young practitioners
from England; at any rate they suggest that each mine or group of mines should carry its own
surgeon.

Cameron applied himself diligently to chlorodyne, one of the two invaluables on the Coast.
We had a large store, but unfortunately the natives have learnt its intoxicating properties,
and during our absence from Axim many bottles had disappeared. I need hardly say that good
locks and keys are prime necessaries in these lands, and that they are mostly 'found wanting.'

I addrest myself to Warburg's drops (Tinctura Warburgii), a preparation invaluable for travellers
in the tropics and in the lower temperates. The action appears to be chiefly on the liver through
the skin. The more a traveller sees, the firmer becomes his conviction that health means the
good condition of this rebellious viscus, and that its derangement causes the two great pests
of Africa, dysentery and fever. Indeed, he is apt to become superstitious upon the subject,
and to believe that a host of diseases--gout and rheumatism, cholera and enteric complaints--result
from, and are to be cured or relieved only by subduing, hepatic disturbances. My 'Warburg'
was procured directly from the inventor, not from the common chemist, who makes the little
phialful for 9d. and sells it for 4s. 6d. Some years ago a distinguished medical friend persuaded
Dr. Warburg, once of Vienna, now of London, to reveal his secret, in the forlorn hope of a
liberal remuneration by the Home Government. Needless to say the reward is to come. I first
learnt to appreciate this specific at Zanzibar in 1856, where Lieut.-Colonel Hamerton used
it successfully in the most dangerous remittents and marsh-fevers. Cases of the febrifuge were
sent out to the Coast during the Ashanti war for the benefit of army and navy: the latter,
they say, made extensive use of it. I have persistently recommended it to my friends and the
public; and, before leaving England in 1879, I wrote to the 'Times,' proposing that all who
owe (like myself) their lives to Dr. Warburg should join in relieving his straitened means
by a small subscription. At this moment (June 1882) measures are being taken in favour of the
inventor, and I can only hope that the result will be favourable.

The 'drops' are composed of the aromatic, sudorific and diaphoretic drugs used as febrifuges
by the faculty before the days of 'Jesuits' bark,' to which a small quantity of quinine is
added. Thus the tincture is successful in many complaints besides fevers. Evidently skilful
manipulation is an important factor in the sum of its success. Dr. Warburg has had the experience
of the third of a century, and the authorities could not do better than to give him a contract
for making his own cure.

The enemy came on with treacherous gentleness--a slight rigor, a dull pain in the head, and
a local irritation. 'I have had dozens of fevers, and dread them little more than a cold,'
said Winwood Reade; indeed, the English catarrh is quite as bad as the common marsh-tertian
of the Coast. The normal month of immunity had passed; I was prepared for the inevitable ordeal,
and I flattered myself that it would be a mild ague, at worst the affair of a week, Altro!

Next morning two white men, owning that they felt 'awful mean,' left Granton, walked down to
Riverside House, and at 8 A.M. embarked upon the hapless Effuenta. The stream rapidly narrowed,
and its aspect became wilder. Dead trees, anchored by the bole-base, cumbered the bed, and
dykes and bars of slate, overlaid by shales of recent date, projected from either side. The
land showed no sign of hills, but the banks were steep at this season, in places here and there
based on ruddy sand and exposing strips of rude conglomerate, the cascalho of the Brazil. This
pudding is composed of waterworn pebbles, bedded in a dark clayey soil which crumbles under
the touch. On an arenaceous strip projecting from the western edge the women were washing and
panning where the bottom of the digging was below that of the river. This is an everyday sight
on the Ancobra, and it shows what scientific 'hydraulicking' will do. After six hours of steaming,
not including three to fill the boiler, we halted at Enfrámadié, the Fanti Frammanji, meaning
'wind cools,' that is, falls calm. It is a wretched split heap of huts on the left bank, one
patch higher pitched than the other, to avoid the floods; the tenements are mere cages, the
bush lying close to the walls, and supplies are unprocurable. In fact, the further we go the
worse we fare as regards mere lodgings; yet the site of our present halt is a high bank of
yellow clay, which suggests better things. There is no reason why this miserable hole should
not be made the river-depôt.

On March 4 we set out in the 'lizard's sun,' as the people call the morning rays; our vehicle
was the surf-boat, escorted by the big canoe. Enfrámadié is the terminus of launch-navigation;
the snags in the Dries stop the way, and she cannot stem the current of the Rains. The Ancobra
now resembles the St. John's or Prince's River in the matter of timber-floorwork and chevaux
de frise of tree-corpses disposed in every possible direction. After half an hour we paddled
past the 'Devil's Gate,' a modern name for an old and ugly feature. H.S.M.'s entrance (to home?)
is formed by black reefs and ridges projected gridiron-fashion from ledges on either side almost
across the stream, leaving a narrow Thalweg so shallow that the boatmen must walk and drag.
During the height of the floods it is sometimes covered for a few hours by forty feet of water,
rising and falling with perilous continuity.

Beyond 'Devil's Gate' a pleasant surprise awaited us. Mr. D. C. MacLennan, manager of the Effuenta
mine, [Footnote: The name was given by M. Dahse; it is that of the first worker, Efuátá, a
woman born on Saturday (Efua), and the third of a series of daughters (átá).] stopped his canoe
to greet us. He was justly proud of his charge--a box of amalgam weighing 15 lbs. and carrying
eighty ounces of gold. It was to be retorted at home and to be followed within a fortnight
by a larger delivery, and afterwards by monthly remittances. The precious case, which will
give courage to so many half-hearted shareholders, was duly embarked on the A.S.S. Ambriz (Captain
Crookes); and its successor, containing the produce of a hundred tons, on the B. and A. Benguela
(Captain Porter). Consequently the papers declared that Effuenta was first in the field of
results. This is by no means the case. As early as November 1881 Mr. W. E. Crocker, of Crockerville,
manager of the important Wásá, (Wassaw) mining-property, sent home gold--amalgam, and black
sand [Footnote: I have before noticed this 'golden sea-sand.' It has lately been found, the
papers tell me, on the coast about Cape Commerell, British Columbia. A handful, taken from
a few inches below the surface, shows glittering specks of 'float-gold,' scales so fine that
it was difficult to wash them by machinery. Mem. This is what women do every day on the Gold
Coast. The Colonist says that a San Francisco company has at length hit upon the contrivance.
It consists of six drawers or layers of plates punched with holes about half an inch in diameter,
and covered with amalgam. The gold-sand is 'dumped in;' and the water, turned on the top-plate,
sets all in motion: the sand falls from plate to plate, leaving the free loose gold which has
attached itself to the amalgam, and very little remains to be caught by the sixth plate. So
simple a process is eminently fitted for the Gold Coast.]--a total of sixty-eight ounces to
twenty-five tons.

After an hour's paddling we sighted a few canoes and surf-boats under a raised clay-bank binding
the stream on the left. This was Tumento (Tomento), our destination; the word means 'won't
go,' as the rock is supposed to say to the water. The aspect of the Ancobra becomes gloomy
and menacing. The broad bed shrinks to a ditch, almost overshadowed by its sombre walls of
many-hued greens; and the dead tree-trunks of the channel, ghastly white in the dull brown
shade, look to the feverish imagination like the skeleton hands and fingers of monstrous spectres
outspread to bar thoroughfare.

We landed and walked a few yards to the settlement. A 'Steam-launch' sounds grandiose, and
so does a 'Great Central Depôt'--seen on paper. And touching this place I was told a tale.
Some time ago two young French employés, a doctor and an engineer, were sent up to the mines,
and fell victims to the magical influence of the name. Quoth Jules to Alphonse, 'My friend,
we will land; we will call a fiacre; we will drive to the local Three Provincial Brothers;
we will eat a succulent repast, and then for a few happy hours we will forget Blackland and
these ignoble blacks.' So they toiled up the stiff and slippery slope, and found a scatter
of crate-huts crowning a bald head of yellow argil. Speechless with rage and horror at the
sight of the 'Depôt,' they rushed headlong into the canoe, returned without a moment's delay
to Axim, and, finding a steamer in the bay, incontinently went on board, flying the Dark Continent
for ever.

We housed ourselves in Messieurs Swanzy and Crocker's establishment at Tumento. The climate
appeared wholesome; the river brought with it a breeze, and we were evidently entering the
region of woods, between the mangrove-swamps of the coast and the grass-lands of the interior.

At Tumento I met, after some twenty years, Mr. Dawson, of Cape Coast Castle. The last time
it was at Dahoman Agbóme, in company with the Rev. Mr. Bernasko, who died (1872) of dropsy
and heart-disease. He is now in the employment of the Tákwá, or French Company, and his local
knowledge and old experience had suggested working the mines to M. Bonnat. Some forty years
ago the English merchants of 'Cabo Corso' used to send their people hereabouts to dig; and
more recently Mr. Carter had spent, they say, 4,000l. upon the works. He was followed by another
roving Englishman, who was not more successful. The liberation of pawns and other anti-abolitionist
'fads' had so raised the wage-rate that the rich placers were presently left to the natives.
We exchanged reminiscences, and he at once started down stream for Axim.

As we were unable to work, Mr. Grant proceeded to inspect the concession called 'Insimankáo,'
the Asamankáo of M. Zimmermann. It is the name of the village near which Sir Charles Macarthy
was slain: our authorities translated it 'I've got you,' as the poor man said to the gold,
or the cruel chief to the runaway serf. Mr. Dawson, who is uncle by marriage to Mr. Grant,
had also suggested this digging. Our good manager, now an adept at prospecting, found the way
very foul and the place very rich. It was afterwards, as will be seen, visited by Mr. Oliver
Pegler and lastly by Cameron.

Amongst the few new faces seen at Tumento were two 'Krambos,' Moslems and writers of charms
and talismans. A 'Patent Improved Metallic Book,' which looked in strange company, contained
their 'fetish' and apparently composed their travelling kit. Both hailed from about Tinbukhtu,
but their Arabic was so imperfect that I could make nothing of their route. These men acquire
considerable authority amongst the pagan negroes, who expect great things from their 'grígrís.'
They managed to find us some eggs when no one else could. This Hibernian race of Gold Coast
blacks had eaten or sold all its hens, and had kept only the loud-crowing cocks. The presence
of these two youths convinced me that there will be a Mohammedan movement towards the Gold
Coast. A few years may see thousands of them, with mosques by the dozen established upon the
sea-board. The 'revival of El-Islam' shows itself nowhere so remarkably as in Africa.

At Tumento Cameron found himself growing rapidly worse. He suffered from pains in the legs,
and owned that even when crossing Africa during his three years of wild life he remembered
nothing more severe. In my own case there was a severe tussle between Dr. Warburg and Fever-fiend.
The attacks had changed from a tertian to a quotidian, and every new paroxysm left me, like
the 'possessed' of Holy Writ after the expulsion of 'devils,' utterly prostrate. During the
three days' struggle I drained two bottles of 'Warburg.' The admirable drug won the victory,
but it could not restore sleep or appetite.

Seeing how matters stood, and how easily bad might pass to worse, I proposed the proceeding
whereby a man lived to fight another day. We were also falling short of ready money, and the
tornadoes were becoming matters of daily occurrence. After a long and anxious pow-wow Cameron
accepted, and it was determined to run down to the coast, and there collect health and strength
for a new departure. No sooner said than done. On March 8 we left Tumento in our big canoe,
passed the night at Riverside House, and next evening were inhaling, not a whit too soon, the
inspiriting sea-whiffs of Axim.

The rest of my tale is soon told.

Cameron recovered health within a week, and resolved to go north again. His object was to inspect
for the second time the working mines about Tákwá, and to note their present state; also to
make his observations and to finish his map. He did not look in full vigour; and, knowing his
Caledonian tenacity of purpose, I made him promise not to run too much risk by over-persistence.
After a dîner d'Axim and discussing a plum-pudding especially made for our Christmas by a fair
and kind friend at Trieste, he set out Ancobra-wards on March 16. He would have no Krumen;
so our seven fellows, who refused to take service in the Effuenta mine, were paid off and shipped
for 'we country.' The thirty hands ordered in mid-January appeared in mid-March, and were made
over to Mr. MacLennan. My companion set out with faithful Joe, Mr. Dawson the stuffer, and
his dog Nero. I did not hear of him or from him till we met at Madeira.

My case was different. I could not recover strength like my companion, who is young and who
has more of vital force to expend. This consideration made me fearful of spoiling his work:
a sick traveller in the jungle is a terrible encumbrance. I therefore proposed to run south
and to revisit my old quarters, 'F.Po' and the Oil Rivers, in the B. and A. s.s. Loanda (Captain
Brown), the same which would pick up my companion after his return to Axim.

Life on the coast was not unpleasant, despite the equinoctial gales which broke on March 19
and blew hard till March 25. I had plenty of occupation in working up my notes, and I was lucky
enough to meet all the managers of the working mines who were passing through Axim. From Messieurs
Crocker (Wásá), MacLennan (Effuenta), Creswick (Gold Coast Company), and Bowden (Tákwá [Footnote:
Alias the African Gold Coast Company, whose shareholders are French and English. It has lately
combined with the Mine d'Or d'Abowassu (Abosu), the capital being quoted at five millions of
francs. Thus the five working mines are reduced to four, while the 'Izrah' and others are coming
on (May 1882).]) I had thus an opportunity of gathering much hearsay information, and was able
to compare opinions which differed widely enough. I also had long conversations with Mr. A.
A. Robertson, lately sent out as traffic-manager to the Izrah, and with Mr. Amondsen, the Danish
sailor, then en route to the hapless Akankon mine. Mr. Paulus Dahse, who was saved from a severe
sickness by Dr. Roulston and by his brother-in-law, Mr. Wulfken, eventually became my fellow-passenger
to Madeira, where I parted from him with regret. During long travel and a residence of years
in various parts of the Gold Coast he has collected a large store of local knowledge, and he
is most generous in parting with his collection.

But, when prepared to embark on board the Loanda, which was a week late, my health again gave
way, and I found that convalescence would be a long affair. Madeira occurred to me as the most
restful of places, and there I determined to await my companion. The A.S.S. Winnebah (Captain
Hooper) anchored at Axim on March 28; the opportunity was not to be lost, and on the same evening
we steamed north, regaining health and strength with every breath.

The A.S.S. Winnebah could not be characterised as 'comfortable.' Mr. Purser Denny did his best
to make her an exception to the Starvation rule, but even he could not work miracles. She is
built for a riverboat, and her main cabin is close to the forecastle. She was crowded with
Kruboys, and all her passengers were 'doubled up.' A full regiment of parrots was on board,
whose daily deaths averaged twenty to thirty. The birds being worth ten shillings each, our
engines were driven as they probably had never been driven before, and the clacking of the
safety-valve never ceased.

The weather, however, was superb. We caught the north-east Trade a little north of Cape Palmas,
and kept it till near Grand Canary. On April 13, greatly improved by the pleasant voyage and
by complete repose, I rejoiced once more in landing at the fair isle Madeira.

And now Cameronus loquitur.

CHAPTER XXII.

TO INSIMANKÁO AND THE BUTABUÉ RAPIDS.

Leaving Axim on March 16, I slept at Kumprasi and remarked a great change in the bar of the
Ancobra River. During the dry season it had been remarkably good, but now it began to change
for the worse; and soon it will become impassable for three or four days at a time. My surf-boat,
when coming across it, shipped three seas. On my return down the river (April 15) the whole
sand-bank to the west of the mouth had been washed away, forming dangerous shoals; the sea
was furiously breaking and 'burning,' as the old Dutch say, and the waves which entered the
river were so high that canoes were broken and boats were seriously damaged.

I stored my goods in the surf-boat, and set out in our big canoe early next morning. A string
of dug-outs was next passed, loaded with palm-kernels, maize, and bananas; it appeared as if
they were all bound for the market at Axim. I took specimens of swish and stone from 'Ross's
Hill.' The top soil showed good signs of gold, and the grains were tolerably coarse. Here a
floating power-engine would soon bare the reefs and warp up the swamp. Messieurs Allan and
Plisson, who were floating down in a surf-boat, gave me the news that the steam-launch Effuenta
had at last succumbed in the struggle for life.

I landed at Akromási, a village where the true bamboo-cane grows, and found the soil to be
a grey sandy clay; there were many 'women's washings' near the settlement. Shortly before reaching
the Ahenia River we saw the landing-place for the valuable 'Apatim concession.' They told me
on enquiry that the stream is deep and has been followed up in a surf-boat for a mile or two.
It may therefore prove of use to Mr. Irvine's property, Apatim.

At half-past five that evening I reached Akankon, and slept well at 'Riverside House.' Mr.
Morris had begun levelling the ground and building new quarters for general use. I gave him
some slips of bamboo and roots of Bahama-grass, as that planted had grown so well.

Next morning we got under way early (6.50) and proceeded up the river. The canoe-men, seeing
pots of palm-wine on the banks, insisted upon landing to slake their eternal thirst. The mode
in which the liquor is sold shows a trustfulness on the part of the seller which may result
from firm belief in his 'fetish.' Any passer-by can drink wine à discrétion, and is expected
to put the price in a calabash standing hard by. Beyond the Yengéni River I saw for the first
and only time purple clay-slate overlying quartz. Collecting here and there specimens of geology,
and suffering much from the sun, for I still was slightly feverish, I reached the 'great central
depôt' at 4 P.M.

Tumento was found by observation to lie in N. lat. 4º 12' 20" and in W. long. (Gr.) 2º 12'
25". Consequently it is only eighteen direct geographical miles from the sea, the mouth of
the Ancobra being in W. lat. 2º 54'. Some make the distance thirty and others sixty miles.
The latter figure would apply only by doubling the windings of the bed.

This ascent of the river convinced me more than ever that Enfrámadié is the proper terminus
of its navigation. I passed the next day at Tumento, which proved to be only half the distance
usually supposed along the Ancobra bed from its mouth. The time was spent mainly in resting
and doctoring myself. At night the rats, holding high carnival, kept me awake till 3 A.M.;
and I heard shots being continually fired from a native mine whose position was unknown. The
natives now know how to bore and blast; consequently thefts of powder, drills, and fuses become
every day more common. My first visit (March 20) was to the Insimankáo concession. I left the
surf-boat behind, and put my luggage into small canoes hired at Tumento, myself proceeding
in the large canoe. We shoved off from the beach at 8.50 A.M. The Ancobra had now, after the
late rains, a fair current instead of being almost dead water; otherwise it maintained the
same appearance. The banks are conglomerate, grey clay and slate; gravel, sand, shingle, and
pebbles of reddish quartz, bedded in earth of the same colour, succeeding one another in ever-varying
succession. Only two reefs, neither of them important, projected from the sides.

After an hour and a half paddling we reached the Fura, which I should call a creek; it is not
out of the mangrove-region. The bed is set in high, steep banks submerged during the rains;
and the narrowness of the mouth, compared with the upper part, made it run, after the late
showers, into the Ancobra like a mill-race. In fact, the paddlers were compelled to track in
order to make headway. After ten minutes (=200 yards) we reached a landing-place, all jungle
with rotting vegetation below. I do not think that as a waterway the Fura Creek can be made
of any practical use; but it will be very valuable for 'hydraulicking.' Canoes and small surf-boats
may run down it at certain seasons, but the flow is too fast and the bed is too full of snags
and sawyers to be easily ascended.

At the landing-place I mounted my hammock and struck the path which runs over level ground
pretty thick with second-growth. The chief Bimfú, who met me at Tumento, had broken his promise
to guide me, and had neglected to clear the way. On a largish creek which was nearly dry I
saw a number of 'women's washings.' Then we passed on the right a hillock seventy to eighty
feet high, where quartz showed in detached and weathered blocks. Beyond it were native shafts
striking the auriferous drift at a depth of eight to ten feet. A few yards further on the usual
washings showed that the top soil is also worth working.

Another half-hour brought us to about a dozen native shafts in the usual chimney shape. They
were quite new and had been temporarily left on account of the rise of the water, which was
here twenty-four feet below the surface. The top soil is of sandy clay, and the gold-containing
drifts, varying in thickness, they told me, from two to four feet, consisted of quartz pebbles
bedded in red loam. The general look of the stratum and the country suggested an old lagoon.

An hour and a half of hammock brought me from the landing-place of the Fura Creek to the village
of Insimankáo. Rain was falling heavily and prevented all attempts at observation. The settlement
is the usual group of swish and bamboo box-huts nestling in the bush. A small clean bird-cage,
divided into two compartments, with standing bedstead, was assigned to me. Next morning I walked
to the Insimankáo mine by a path leading along, and in places touching, the bank of the Fura
Creek, which runs through the whole property. After thirty-three minutes we reached the 'marked
tree.' Here the land begins to rise and forms the Insimankáo Hill, whose trend is to north-north-east.
Mr. Walker calls it Etia-Kaah, or Echia-Karah, meaning 'when you hear (of its fame) you will
come.' It is the usual mound of red clay, fairly wooded, and about 150 feet high; the creek
runs about 100 yards west of the pits. The reefs seemed to be almost vertical, with a strike
to the north-north-east; and the walls showed slate, iron-oxide, and decomposed quartz. The
main reef [Footnote: Mr. O. Pegler (A.R.S.M.) describes it as a 'very powerful reef outcropping
boldly from a hill at a short distance from the native village, the strike being north-north-east
to south-south-west, and the vein having a great inclination. At the crest of the hill it presents
a massive appearance, and is many feet in width--in some places between twenty and thirty feet.
This diminishes towards the native pits, and there the vein diverges into two portions, both
presenting a decomposed appearance, the casing on both foot and hanging wall having a highly
talcose character.' This engineer also washed gold specks from the loose soil. Finally, he
notes that the massive quartz-outcrop is homogeneous and crystalline, giving only traces of
gold, but that the stone improves rapidly with depth.] was from eight to ten feet thick, and
I believe that there are other and parallel formations. But the ground is very complicated,
and for proper study I should have required borings and cross-cuts.

There were two big rough pits called shafts. I descended into the deeper one, which was fourteen
to fifteen feet below ground. The walls would repay washing on a large scale; and the look
of the top soil reminded me of the descriptions of old California and Australia when there
were rushes of miners to the gold-fields, carrying for all machinery a pick, a pan, and a tin
'billy.'

The Insimankáo concession contains 1,000 fathoms square; the measurements being taken from
a 'marked tree' on the north-western slope of the hill with the long name. The position is
N. lat. 5º 18' 15" and the long. W. (Gr.) 2º 14' 03". West of the centre the Fura Creek receives
a small tributary. Mr. Walker took fair samples from the well-defined reef and the outcropping
boulders, whose strike is from north-north-east to south-south-west. He notes that the land
Egwira, which lies between Wásá and Aowin, was long famous for its mining-industry, and that
it appears in old maps as a 'Republick rich in gold.' We heard of the Abenje mine on the same
reef, four to five miles east of Insimankáo; and he declares that it has been abandoned because
the population is too scanty.

I left this mining property convinced that working it will pay well. The only thing to be guarded
against is overlapping the French concession of Mankuma, which lies immediately to the east.

From the mine I walked back to the village, breakfasted, and returned in the canoes to the
sluice-like mouth of the Fura Greek. I then ascended the Ancobra, in order to inspect the Butabué
rapids, said to be the end of canoe-navigation. We passed on the right a reef and a shallow
of conglomerate, washed out of the banks and forming a race; there is another reef with its
rip at Aroásu. In the early part of the afternoon we got to the village of Ebiásu, which means
'not dark.' Here the equinoctial showers began to fall heavily, and I was again obliged to
sleep without observations. The village is built upon a steep bank of yellow clay, with rich
red oxides; it stands forty feet above the present level, and yet at times it is flooded out.

Leaving Ebiásu next morning, I found the banks of sand, clay, and small pebbles beginning to
shelve. We passed over slaty rocks in the bed; and the depth of water was often not more than
three feet. Women's washings were seen on the left bank, and the river had risen after they
had been worked. We could not approach them on account of the reefs and the current. The opposite
bank, about five minutes further up, is of soft sandstone; and here a native tunnel of forty
to fifty feet had been run in from the river to communicate with a shaft. My men were nervous
about leopards, and I had to encourage them by firing my rifle into the hole. The normal formation
continued, and here the land is evidently built by the river; there are few hills, and the
present direction of the bed has been determined by the rocks and reefs, the outliers of the
old true coast. These features may have been lower than they are now, and owe their present
elevation to upheaval. Immature conglomerate--that is, a pudding of pebbles and hardened clay--seems
to have been deposited in the synclinal curve of the bed-rock, principally slate. Overlying
both are the top soil and the sands, the latter often resembling the washed out tailings of
stamped rock.

Passing the village Abanfokru, I found myself amongst the extensive concessions of the French,
who have taken the alluvial grounds for washing and working. M. Bonnat's map gives the approximate
positions and dimensions; and the several sites are laid down by M. Dahse. I shall have more
to say about this section on my return.

Navigation now becomes more intricate and difficult, owing to rocks and reefs, rips and rapids.
A large stony holm about mid-stream is called Eduásim, meaning 'thief in river.' I need not
repeat from my map the names of the unimportant settlements. At the mouth of the Abonsá the
bed widens to nearly double, and the north-easterly direction shifts to due north. This great
drain, falling into the left bank, lies between five and six miles above the Fura Creek. I
shall have more to say about it when describing my descent. Two miles further north brought
us to the beginning of the rapids, which apparently end the boat-navigation. The only canoes
are used for ferrying; I saw no water-traffic, and there were no longer any fish-weirs. Moreover,
the country has been deserted, I was told, since the arrival of strangers. The natives have
probably been treated with little consideration. A quarter of an hour's hauling, all hands
being applied to the canoe, took us about fifty yards over the Impayim rapid, whose fall is
from four to five feet deep. Immediately after the Butabué influent on the right bank the bed
bends abruptly east, and we reached the far-famed rapids of that name. Here the whole surface,
as far up as the eye can see, is a mass of rocks and of broken, surging water. The vegetation
of the banks, bound together by creepers, llianas, and rattans, is peculiarly fine. I landed
upon one of the rocks, sketched the Butabué, whose name none could explain, and returned down
stream to the 'great central Depôt,' Tumento.

I can say little about the River Ancobra above the rapids, except that it resumes its course
from the north-north-east and the north, apparently guided by the hills. The sources are now
only a few miles distant, but the stream is unnavigable, and they must be reached on foot.
The late M. Bonnat walked up by a hunter's path, now killed out, to the ruins of Bush Castle,
which Jeekel calls Fort Ruyghaver. He there secured possession of the rich Asamán mines, which
the work was intended to defend. There is some fetish there, and the place is known as the
burial-ground of the kings. I was also told that four or five marches off a cache of treasure,
described to be large, had been made during the Ashanti-Gyáman war, and had been defended by
the usual superstitions. Fetish may have lost much of its power on the coast; in the interior,
however, it is still strong, and few white men live long after being placed under its ban.

CHAPTER XXIII.

TO EFFUENTA, CROCKERVILLE, AND THE AJI BIPA HILL.

At Tumento the halt of a day (March 22) was necessary in order to hire carriers and get ready
for the march eastward. Here, too, I washed sundry specimens of soft earth from various parts
of the river-banks, finding colour of gold in all except the grey clay. Our Mohammedan friends
were there; the eldest called upon me and was exceedingly civil, besides being to a certain
extent useful. For the hire of a shilling and two cakes of Cavendish he found me eggs in a
village some three miles off, and he ended by writing me a 'safy,' which would bring me good
luck in all my undertakings. It consists of the usual Koranic quotations in black, and of magic
numbers in pink, ink.

Dr. Roulston and Mr. Higgins, the new District Commissioner for Tákwá, entered Tumento about
3 P.M. The carriers hired in addition to my canoe-men would now be wanted, said the cunning
old chief, for the 'Government man,' with whom he wished to stand well. As the porters had
received an advance of pay I objected to this proceeding. The fresh arrivals had to find other
hands, and were not very successful in the search. Their detachment of twenty-five Haussa soldiers,
who had escorted to the coast Dr. Duke, the acting commissioner lately invalided, were sent
abroad in all directions to act press-gang, and the natural lawlessness of the race came out
strong. The force is injured by enlisting 'Haussas' who are not Haussa at all; merely semi-savage
and half-pagan slaves. On detached duty they get quite out of hand; and they by no means serve
to make our Government popular. By the rules of the force they should never be absent from
head-quarters for more than six months; their transport costs next to nothing, as they march
by bush-paths. And yet they are kept for years on outpost-duty, where it would require a Glover
to discipline them and to make them steady soldiers. They live by plunder. A private on a shilling
a day will eat three fowls, each worth 9d. to 10d., and drink any taken amount of palm-wine.
There are no means of punishment, or even of securing a criminal; the colony cannot afford
irons or handcuffs; there is no prison, and a Haussa, placed under arrest in a bamboo-hut,
cuts his way out as easily as a rat from a bird-cage.

One of these men was accused of murdering a woman in one of the villages on the way. His comrades
brought in husbands, wives, and children indiscriminately, not sparing even the chiefs. Bimfú,
of Insimankáo, was among the number; next morning, however, he threw his pack, bolted to the
bush, and eventually reported his grievances to Axim. The second headman of Tumento, when pressed,
managed to secure a very small load. But as payment is by weight, 6d. per 10 lbs. from the
river to Effuenta, and no subsistence is allowed, his gains were small in proportion; he received
for three days only 9d., the ordinary value of porter's rations.

Next day (March 23) we left Tumento at 7.30 A.M. The caravan consisted of thirty-two men, all
told--canoe-men from Axim, Tumento bearers, boatswain, and my three body-servants. All were
under the command of Joe the Indefatigable, who formed a kind of body-guard of gun-carriers
out of the porters that carried the lightest packs. Mr. Dawson assisted me in collecting; Paul
prepared to shoulder a bed, and the boatswain was ordered to catch butterflies. The cries of
'bátli,' 'basky,' and 'bokkus' (bottle, basket, and box) continually broke the silence of the
bush and gladdened the collector's ears. I was still able to dispense with the hammock.

In the first few minutes the path trends southwards; it then assumes and keeps an easterly
direction. Here is a water-parting: the many little beds, mostly full of water, flow either
north towards the Abonsá or south and westwards to the Ancobra. They are divided by detached
hills, or rather oblong mounds, of the same formation as the beds; quartz, gravel, and red
clay, all disposed in the usual direction. Women's washings were seen everywhere along the
road, and in some places oozings of iron from the soil heavily charged the streamlets. Some
of the quartz-boulders were coloured outside like porphyry by the oxide. About three-quarters
of the way from Tumento to Apankru is a hill rich in outcrops of quartz. I believe it to be
French property.

These rises and falls led over 7-1/2 direct geographical miles, usually done in three hours,
to Apankru, a second 'great central Depôt.' The village lies on the right bank of the Abonsá
River, here some forty feet high. It is composed almost entirely of the store-houses of the
several companies--(Gold Coast) Effuenta, and Swanzy's (English), the African Gold Coast and
Mines d'Or d'Aboassu [Footnote: At first I supposed the word to be Abo-Wásá, or Stones of Wásá:
it is simply Abosu, meaning 'on the rock.'] (French). Only the latter use the Abonsá for transport
purposes--I think very unwisely. My descent of the stream will show all its dangers of snags,
rapids, and heavy currents. Here it rises high during the floods, and sometimes it swamps the
lower courtyards.

I put up at Mr. Crocker's establishment, which was, as usual, nice and clean; and the officials
went on to Effuenta. The native clerk took good care of me, probably moved thereto by Mr. Joe,
who addressed him, 'Here, gib me key; I want house for my master!' During the evening, in the
intervals of heavy rain, I obtained a latitude by Castor. Apankru lies in north latitude 5º
13' 55", and its longitude (by calculation) is 0º 20' 6" west.

The next morning (March 24) was dark and threatening. At 6.30 A.M. we struck into the path,
a mere bush-track, the corduroys and bridges made by the Swanzy house having completely disappeared.
This want of public feeling, of 'solidarity,' amongst the several mining companies should be
remedied with a strong hand. These men seem not to know that rivalry may be good in buying
palm-oil, but is the wrong thing in mining. Such a jealousy assisted in making the Spanish
proverb 'A silver mine brings wretchedness; a gold mine brings ruin.' Even in England I have
met with unwise directors who told me, 'Oh, you must not say that, or people will prefer such
and such a mine.' But, speaking generally, employers are aware that unity of interest should
produce solidarity of action. The local employés like to breed divisions, in order to increase
their own importance. This should be put down with a strong hand; and all should learn the
lesson that what benefits one mine benefits all. Many of the little streams run between steep
banks, and in the rainy season mud and water combine to make the line impracticable. Yet there
is nothing to stand in the way of a cheap tram; and perhaps this would cost less and keep better
than a metalled road. The twisting of the track, 'without rhyme or reason,' reminded me of
the snakiest paths in Central Africa. Our course, as the map shows, was in every quadrant of
the compass except the south-western.

On our left or north ran the Aunábé, M. Dahse's Ahunabé, [Footnote: M. Dahse's paper, Die Goldküste
(Geog. Soc. of Bremen, vol. ii., 1882), has been ably translated by Mr. H. Bruce Walker, jun.,
of the India Store Depôt.] the northern fork of the Abonsá, which falls into the right bank
below Apankru. It has a fine assortment of mixed rapids, which show well during the floods.
Hills of the usual quartz blocks, gravels, sand, and clay lead, after 1 hr. 40 min. walking
and collecting, at the rate of two geographical miles an hour, to Mr. Crocker's second set
of huts. They were built on a level for shelter and resting-places before Apankru was in existence,
and were baptised 'Sierra Leone' by emigrants from the white man's grave and the black man's
Garden of Eden.

Beyond this settlement is a fine quartz hill, round the northern edge of which the path winds
to the little Kwansakru. This is a woman's village, where the wives of chiefs who have mining-rights,
accompanied by their slaves, are stationed, to pan gold for their lazy husbands. In this way
may have arisen the vulgar African story of Amazon settlements. Messieurs Zweifel and Moustier
[Footnote: Voyage, &c., p. 115.] were told by a Kissi man that twelve marches behind their
country is a large town called Nahalo, occupied only by the weaker sex. A man showing himself
in the streets, or met on the road, is at once put to death; however, some of the softer-hearted
have kept them prisoners, and the result may easily be divined. All the male issue is killed
and only the girls are kept.

Many large 'women's washings' of old date give us a hint how the country should be worked.
All along the line of the Aunábé white sands, the tailings of natural sluices, have been deposited;
the black sand sinking by its own weight. I was unable to find out the extent of the French
concessions, and look forward to the coming day of compulsory definition of boundaries and
registration in Government offices. These grants are mingled in inextricable confusion with
those secured by 'Surgeon-Major Dr. James Africanus Beale Horton, Esq.'

Soon after Kwansakru we exchanged the ordinary path for a mere thread in the bush, leading
to the southern end of Tebribi Hill. The name, according to Mr. Sam, means 'when you hear,
it shakes,' signifying that the thunder reverberates from the heights owing to its steep side
and gives it a tremulous motion. This abrupt, cliff-like side is the western, where the schistose
gneiss is exposed for a thickness of 60 feet and more: the stone is talcose, puddinged in places
with quartz pebbles, and everywhere showing laminations of black sand. The long oval mound
of red clay, overgrown with trees, and rising 295 feet above sea-level, is all auriferous;
but there are placers richer than their neighbours. Tebribi was the favourite washing-ground
of the Apinto Wásás; but the old shafts were all neglected after the Dutch left, and no deep
sinking was known within the memory of man until the last twelve years. I passed a pit on the
western flank; the winch had been removed, and my people found it impracticable: we descended
to it by cut steps and followed a cornice, mainly artificial, for a short distance to where
its mouth opened. This hole had been sunk 70 to 80 feet deep in the talcose stone; and it would
have been far easier and better to have driven galleries and adits into the face of the rock.

We took fourteen minutes to clamber up the stiff side in the pelting rain, with a tornado making
ready to break. Ten minutes more, along the level, and a total of three hours, placed us at
Mr. Crocker's Bellevue House. I had been asked to baptise it, and gave the name after a place
in Sevenoaks which overlooks the wooded expanse of the Kentish weald. The place being locked
up, we at once committed burglary; I occupied one of the two boarded bedrooms with plank walls,
and my men established themselves in the broad and well-thatched verandah. When the view cleared
we saw various outliers of hill, all running nearly parallel and striking north with more or
less easting; the temperature was delightful, and between the showers the breezes were most
refreshing. At night a persistent rain set in and ruined all chance of getting sights.

The next morning broke dull and grey with curtains of smoky fog and mist hanging to the hills;
and the heavy wet made the paths greasy and slippery. Leaving Bellevue House, we walked along
the whole length of the ridge in half an hour; and, descending the north-western slope, we
struck the main thoroughfare--such as it is. Reaching the level, we found more 'women's washings,'
and the highly auriferous ground looked as if made for the purpose of hydraulic mining.

Another half-hour along the lower flat led us to Burnettville, Crocker's Ruhe No. 3. It is
a large native-built house fronted by long narrow quarters for negroes on the other side of
the road. The path crossed several streamlets trending north to the Aunábé, and a bad mud which
had seen corduroy in its better days. Blocks of quartz and slate protruded between the patches
of bog. We then traversed fairly undulating and well-wooded ground, clay-stone coated with
oxide of iron; we crossed another small stream flowing northwards, and we began the ascent
leading to 'Government House, Tákwá.' It is also known as Mount Pleasant, Prospect Mount, and
Vinegar Hill.

The site facing the Effuenta mine is the summit of a long thin line about 275 feet high. This
queer specimen of official head-quarters was built by the united genius of the owners of the
ground, Mr. Commissioner Cascaden and Dr. Duke. As before said the really comfortable house
of boarding has been bequeathed to the white ants at Axim by the Government of the Golden Land,
too poor to pay transport. Commissioner and doctor receive no house-allowance, and according
to popular rumour, which is probably untrue, were graciously told that they might pig in a
native hut in or about Tákwá. Consequently they built this place and charge a heavy rent for it.

Government House is a large parallelogram of bamboo. The roof is an intricate mass of branches
and tree-trunks, with a pitch so flat that it admits every shower. Mr. Higgins was at once
obliged to expend 10l.-12l. in removing and restoring the house-cover. Under it are built two
separate and independent squares of wattle with plank floors raised a foot or so off the ground;
these dull and dismal holes, which have doors but no windows, serve as sleeping-places. The
rest of the interior goes by the name of a sitting-room. The outer walls are whitewashed on
both sides, and between them and the two wattle squares is a space of 6 to 8 feet, adding to
the disproportionate appearance of the interior. Had it been divided off in the usual way the
tenement would have been much more comfortable. There is a scatter of ragged huts, grandiosely
designated as the barracks, on the level space where the Haussas parade. When Mr. Higgins was
making himself water-tight, these lazy loons had the impudence to ask that he would either
have their lines mended or order new ones to be built. I would have made them throw down their
ramshackle cabins, knock up decent huts, and keep them in good order.

Leaving Government House, I descended the steep incline of Vinegar Hill, passed through the
little Esanuma village, and crossed two streams flowing south. One is easily forded; the eastern
has a corduroy bridge 176 ft. long, built to clear the muds on either side. I shall call this
double water the Tákwá rivulet, and shall have more to say about it on my return.

Another steep ascent placed me at the Effuenta establishment. I was now paying my second visit
to the far-famed Tákwá Ridge. It is a long line running parallel with Vinegar Hill, but instead
of being regular, like its neighbour, it is broken into a series of small crests looking on
the map like vertebræ; these heights being parted by secondary valleys, some of which descend
almost to the level of the flowing water. Westward the hog's-back is bounded by the Tákwá rivulet,
rising in the northern part of the valley. Eastwards there is a corresponding feature called
by the English 'Quartz Creek:' it breaks through the ridge in the southern section of the Effuenta
property and unites with the Tákwá. My aneroid showed the height of the crest to be 260 feet
above sea-level, and about 160 above the valley. Mr. Wyatt has raised it to 1,400 feet--a curious
miscalculation.

At Effuenta I found Mr. MacLennan, the manager whom we last met at Axim. Owing to the drowned-out
state of 'Government House' he had given hospitality to Messieurs Higgins and Roulston, and
I could not prevent his leaving his own sleeping-room for my better accommodation. I spent
two days with him inspecting the mine and working up my notes; during this time Mr. Bowden,
of Tákwá, and Mr. Ex-missionary Dawson passed through the station; and I was unfortunate in
missing the former.

'Effuenta House' is a long narrow tenement of bamboo and thatch, divided into six or seven
rooms, and built upon a platform of stone and swish raised seven feet off the ground. All the
chambers open upon a broad verandah, which shades the platform. The inmate was talking of rebuilding,
as the older parts were beginning to decay. He had just set up in his 'compound' two single-room
bamboo houses, with plank floors raised four feet off the ground; these were intended to lodge
the European staff. Other bamboo huts form the offices and the stores. The Kru quarters are
at the western base of the hill; a few hands, however, live in the two little villages upon
the Tákwá rivulet. The Sierra Leone and Akra artificers occupy their own hamlet between the
Kru lines and the stamps. Last year there was a garden with a small rice-field, but everything
was stolen as soon as it was fit to gather.

Next morning Mr. MacLennan led me to the diggings. This concession, which is the southernmost
but one upon the Tákwá ridge, contains one thousand by two thousand fathoms; and desultory
work began in 1880. The rock, a talcose gneiss, all laden with gold, runs along the whole length
of the hill, striking, as usual, north 6º east (true). In places it forms a basset, or outcrop,
cresting the summit; and the eastern flank is cliffy, like that of the Tebribi. To get at the
ore three shafts have been sunk on the western slope of the ridge just below the highest part,
and a passage is being driven to connect the three. A rise for ventilation, and for sending
down the stone, connects this upper gallery with a lower one; and the latter is being pushed
forward to unite the three tunnels pierced horizontally near the foot of the hill, at right
angles to the lode. There is also a fourth tunnel below the manager's house, which will be
joined on to the others. The three tunnels open westward upon a tramway, along which the ore
is carried to the stamps. I judged the output already made to be considerable, but could not
make an estimate, as it was heaped up in different places.

The stamp-mill, lying to the extreme north of the actual workings, is supplied with water by
a leat from the eastern Tákwá rivulet. The twelve head of stamps, on Appleby's 'gravitation
system,' are driven by a Belleville boiler and engine; this has the merit of being portable
and the demerit of varying in effective power, owing to the smallness of the steam-chest. The
battery behaves satisfactorily; only the pump, which is worked by the cam-shaft, wants power
to supply the whole dozen; consequently another and independent pump has been ordered. Krumen,
who will never, I think, make good mine-workmen, are constantly employed in washing the blankets
as soon as they are charged; and the resulting black sand is carried to the washing-house to
be panned, or rather calabashed, by native women. In time we shall doubtless see concentrating
bundles and amalgamating barrels.

The three iron-framed stamp-boxes discharge their sludge into two parallel mercury- or amalgam-boxes,
which Mr. Appleby declares will arrest 75 to 80 per cent. of free gold. It then passes on to
the distributing table, the flow to the strakes being regulated by small sluices. Of the latter
there is one to each width of green baize or of mining-cloth made for the purpose. The overflow
of the sluices runs into a large tailing-tank of board-work, with holes and plugs at different
levels to tap the contents. These tailings are also washed by women.

Finally, the mercury is squeezed through leathers and the hard amalgam is sent for treatment
to England. Retorting is not practised at present in any of the mines. The only reduction-gear
belongs to the Gold Coast Mining Company; and some time must elapse before it is ready for
use. My discovery of native cinnabar will then prove valuable.

The Effuenta can now bring to bank, with sufficient hands, at least a hundred tons a day of
good paying ore; whereas the stamps can crush at most one-tenth. When this section of the lode,
about 200 fathoms, shall be worked, there will still be the balance of 1,000. But even this
fifth of the property will supply material for years. The proportion of gold greatly varies,
and I should not like to hazard a conjecture as to average, but an ounce and a half or two
ounces will not be above the mark.

At present the manager works under the difficulty of wanting European assistants. His mining-engineer
and one mechanic lately left him to return home; and he has only a white book-keeper, an English
working-miner, and a mechanic, besides a man who made his way from the coast on foot, and who
is now doing good, honest work. The progress made by Mr. MacLennan, during his ten months of
charge, has been most creditable. He has literally opened the mine, the works of which were
begun by M. Dahse. He has personally supervised the transport and erection of all the machinery;
and at present, in addition to the ordinary managerial routine, he has to act as chief of each
and every department. Owing to his brave exertions the future of the Effuenta mine is very
promising: it will teach those to come 'how to do it,' in contrast with another establishment
which is the best guide 'how not to do it.' If the Board prove itself efficient, this property
will soon pay a dividend. But half-hearted measures will go far to stultify the able and energetic
work I found on the spot. [Footnote: This forecast has been unexpectedly verified with the
least possible delay. Perfect communication has been established between the shafts and levels;
and the mine can now (October 1882) turn out 100 tons a day at five shillings. But imperfect
pumps have been sent out, and the result is a highly regretable block. Of the value of the
mine there can be no doubt.]

The northern extremity of the Tákwá ridge, whose length may be nine to ten miles, remains unappropriated,
as far as can be known. The furthest concession has been made, I am told, to Mr. Creswick.
South of the section in question lies a property now in the hands of the late M. Bonnat's executors:
the grant was given to him as a wedding-present by his friends, the chiefs. Report says that
from this part of the lode, which is riddled with native pits, came some of the specimens that
floated the G. C. M. Company. Succeeds in due order the African Gold Coast Company, French
and English, which was brought out in 1878. It is popularly and locally known as the Tákwá
(not 'Tarcquah') mine, from the large native village which infests its grounds. I have described
the Effuenta, its southern neighbour. Beyond this again is a strip belonging to the Franco-English
Company; and, lastly, at the southern butt-end, divided by a break from the main ridge, lies
the 'Tamsoo-Mewoosoo mines of Wassaw.' The latter has lately been 'companyed,' under the name
of the 'Tacquah Gold Mines Company,' by Dr. J. A. B. Horton and Mr. Ferdinand Fitzgerald, of
the famous 'African Times.' When its directors inform us that 'twenty ounces of gold lately
arrived from a neighbouring mine, the produce of stamping of twenty-five tons of ore, similar
to that of Tamsoo-Mewoosoo,' they may not have been aware that the produce in question was
worked from the alluvial drift discovered, about the end May 1881, in the north-western corner
of the Swanzy estates. This drift has no connection with the Tákwá ridge-lodes.

After morning tea on March 28 I bade a temporary adieu to my most hospitable host, and walked
along the ridge-crest to the establishment of the Franco-English or African Gold Coast Company.
Here I found only one person, Dr. Burke, an independent practitioner, who is allowed lodging,
but not board. M. Haillot, of Paris, formerly accountant and book-keeper, was in temporary
charge of this mine and of Abosu during Mr. Bowden's absence. I shall give further detail on
my return march. Passing through the spirit-reeking Tákwá village, where nearly every hovel
is a 'shebeen,' I walked along the valley separating the ridge from its western neighbour,
Vinegar Hill, and in half an hour entered the huts belonging to the Gold Coast Mining Company.
[Footnote: These gentlemen are still (October 1882) doing hard and successful work at the mines.]
Here I breakfasted with the brothers Gowan, who had been left in charge by Mr. Creswick. My
notes on this establishment must also be reserved for a future page.

Twenty-five minutes' walking brought me to where the main road, a mere bush-path, strikes across
a gully separating two crests of the Tákwá ridge. Then came a good stretch of level ground,
composed of sand and gravel of stained quartz, clothed with the ordinary second-growth. When
this ended I passed over the northern heads of two small buttes which lie unconformably; the
direction of their main axes lies north-north-west, whereas all their neighbours trend to the
north-north-east. The climb was followed by a second level, bounded on the left, or north,
by the Abo Yáo Hill, the emplacement of the 'Mines d'Or d'Aboassu.' Two branch paths lead up
to it from the main line of road. Near the western is a place chosen as a cemetery for Europeans;
as usual it is neglected and overgrown with bush.

Presently I arrived at the village of Abosu, a walk of about two hours from the Tákwá mine.
Ten months ago it contained forty to fifty head of negroes; now it may number 3,000, although
the May emigration had begun, when the workmen return to their homes, being unable to labour
in the flooded flats. There was the hum of a busy, buzzing crowd, sinking pits and shafts,
some in the very streets and outside their own doors. This alluvial bed must be one of the
richest in the country; and it is wholly native property under King Angu, of Apinto. There
is little to describe in the village; every hut is a kind of store, where the most poisonous
of intoxicants, the stinkingest of pomatum, and the gaudiest of pocket-handkerchiefs are offered
as the prizes for striking gold. There are also a few goldsmiths' shops, where the precious
metal is adulterated and converted to coarse, rude ornaments. The people are able 'fences,'
and powder, fuses, and mining-tools easily melt into strong waters. Hence Abosu is a Paradise
to the Fanti police and to the Haussa garrison of Tákwá.

I looked about Abosu to prospect the peculiarities of the place, where the Sierra Leonite and
the Cape Coast Anglo-nigger were conspicuous for 'cheek' and general offensiveness. These ignoble
beings did not spare even poor Nero; they blatantly wondered what business I had to bring such
a big brute in order to frighten the people. Resuming my way along the flat by a winding path,
I came upon a model bit of corduroying over a bad marsh, crossed the bridge, and suddenly sighted
Mr. F. F. Crocker's coffee-mill stamping-battery. It lies at the south-western end of a butte,
one of a series disposed in parallel ranges and trending in the usual direction. All have quartz-reefs
buried in red clay, and are well wooded, with here and there small clearings. The names are
modern--Crocker's Reef to the east, Sam's Reef, and so forth.

Then I passed an admirably appointed saw-mill. At this distance from the coast, where transport
costs 24l. to 26l. a ton, carpenter's work must be done upon the spot. A wide, clean road,
metalled with gravel, and in places bordered by pine-apples, led to store-houses of bamboo
and thatch, built on either side of the way. After walking from Effuenta seven and a half geographical
miles in three hours and forty-five minutes, I reached the establishment known as Crockerville.
It dates from 1879, and in 1880 it forwarded its first remittance of 11l. 10s. to England.
The village was laid out under the superintendence of Mr. Sam, the ablest native employé it
has ever been my fortune to meet. He is the same who, when District-commissioner of Axim, laid
out the town and planted the street-avenues. In conversation with me he bitterly derided the
native association formed at Cape Coast Castle for obtaining concessions and for selling them
to the benighted white man. He resolved not to put his money in a business where all would
be at loggerheads within six months unless controlled by an European.

The houses are bamboo on stone platforms. One block is occupied by the owner, and a parallel
building lodges Mr. Sam and his wife, the two being connected by an open dining-hall. The kitchen
and offices lie to the north and east. Further west are quarters for European miners, and others
again for Mr. Turner, now acting manager, and his white clerk. Furthest removed are the black
quarters, the huts forming a street.

Crockerville at present is decidedly short of hands. The number on the books, all told, black
and white, is only sixty-two: when the whole property comes to be worked, divided and sub-divided,
it will require between a thousand and fifteen hundred. The hands are mostly country people,
including a few gangs employed to sink shafts. One gang lately deserted, for the following
reason. Two men were below charging the shots from a heap of loose powder, whilst their friends
overhead were quietly smoking their pipes. A 'fire-'tick,' thrown across the shaft, burnt a
fellow's fingers, and he at once dropped it upon his brethren underground; they were badly
scorched, and none of the gang has been seen since. I mention this accident as proving how
difficult it is to manage the black miner. The strictest regulations are issued to prevent
the fatuous nigger killing himself, but all in vain: he is worse, if possible, than his white
confrère. If I had the direction all the powder-work should be done by responsible Europeans.
I would fire by electricity, the battery remaining in the manager's hands, and no native should
be trusted with explosives.

Here I fell amongst old acquaintances, and was only too glad to remain with them between Friday
and Thursday. Mr. Turner gave me one of his bed-rooms, and Mr. Crocker's sitting-room was always
open by day. We messed together, clerks, mechanics, and all, in the open dining-hall: this
is Mr. Crocker's plan, and I think it by far the best. The master's eye preserves decorum,
and his presence prevents unreasonable complaints about rations. The French allow each European
employé 4s. 9d. a day for food and hire of servants, and attempt most unfairly to profit by
the sale of provisions and wines. The consequence is that everything is disjointed and uncomfortable:
some starve themselves to save money; others overdrink themselves because meat is scarce; and
all complain that the sum which would suffice for many is insufficient for one.

The Swanzy establishment has set up an exceptionally light battery of twelve stamps, made in
sections for easier transport. Neither here nor in any of the mines have stone-breakers or
automatic feeders yet been introduced: the stuff is all hand-spalled. One small 'Belleville'
drives the stamps, another works the Tangye pump, and a third turns the saw-mills. I will notice
a few differences between the Swanzy system and that of Effuenta. The wooden framework of the
stamp-mill is better than iron. The cam-shaft here carries only single, not double cams, a
decided disadvantage: in order to strike the same number of blows per minute it has to make
double the number of revolutions. Moreover, by some unhappy mistake, it is too far from its
work, and the result is a succession of sharp blows on the tappets, with injury to all the
gear. On the other hand proper fingers are fitted to the stamps: this is far better than supporting
them by a rough chock of wood. At Crockerville, as at Effuenta, only six of the twelve stamps
were working: there the pump was at fault; here the blanket-tables had not been made wide enough.
I could hardly estimate the total amount of ore brought to grass, or its average yield: specimens
of white quartz, with threads, strings, and lobs of gold, have been sent to England from Crocker's
Reef. The best tailings are reserved either for treatment on the spot or for reduction in England.
The mine, as regards present condition, is in the stage of prospecting upon a large and liberal
scale. The stamps are chiefly used to run through samples of from 50 to 100 tons taken from
the various parts of the property: in this way the most exact results can be obtained. During
my visit they were preparing to work a hundred tons from Aji Bipa, the fourth and furthest
butte to the north-west.

I visited this mound in company with Mr. Sam, who interpreted the name to be that of the gambogefruit.
We descended, as we had ascended, by the stamping-battery, crossed the bridge, and then struck
northwards, over the third hillock, to No. 4. Unlike Crocker's Reef, Aji Bipa does not show
visible gold; its other peculiarities will best be explained by the report I wrote on the spot.

This property is situated near Crockerville and can always be easily reached from that place.
In fact, the southern boundary marches with the northern limit of the Crockerville estate.
The rich gold-bearing lode is situated on the western slope of the hill, and can be seen in
all the three shafts which have been sunk. The formation of the hill seems in many respects
to correspond with the Lingula flags at and near Clogau, Dolgelli, and Gogafau. This formation
is practically the same as that of the range of hills on which the concessions of the Gold
Coast Mining Company, of the African Gold Coast Mining Company, of the Effuenta Company, of
the Mines d'Or d'Aboassu (Abosu), and the Tamsu concessions are situated, and also as that
of Tebribi Hill; but each of the three areas has its own marked features. In all the rocks
are talcose and show a sort of conglomerate of quartz pebbles, in some cases water-worn and
in others angular, bedded in a mixture of quartz and granite detritus. This has in the three
areas undergone varying degrees of pressure, and has been upheaved at different angles. In
some cases the pressure and heat have been so great that the rock assumes a distinctly gneissic
character.

At Aji Bipa the lode runs N. 38º E. (Mag.) in the centre shaft, and N. 40 E. in the southern
shaft, a sort of fault occurring in the centre shaft. In the northern shaft I should put it
at 38º, but from the way in which the neighbouring rock had cleaved it was difficult to get
the strike accurately. The dip is the same in all three shafts, viz. 82º. The lode being so
near vertical, it can be clearly traced for the whole depth of the shafts, and is very well
defined. The hanging (eastern) wall is highly coloured with iron oxides, and contains many
quartz crystals which are through-coloured with the same, and I do not think it at all unlikely
that garnets and other gems may be found in it. One or two minute crystals showed a green colour,
and might be tourmaline or emerald; but perhaps it was only a surface-colour caused by the
presence of copper. The foot wall is very well marked by a strip of whitish yellow clay about
an inch in thickness. The rock on both sides of the lode is gold-bearing, and is evidently,
as well as the real lode, formed of the debris of old quartz and granites. Talcose flakes are
frequent, and in some places it seems to be clearly gneiss. Although with a small plant it
might not be profitable to treat this, still with large and suitable machinery it may be made
to pay, and the trouble of separating the rich lode from the inferior stone avoided. One remarkable
trait in the lode is the manner in which it splits into blocks and slabs, all the faces of
the quartz pebbles being cloven in precisely the same plane.

The length of the concession along the line of lode is 2,780 feet, and from the way in which
the lode stands on the western slope of the hill, and the dip being eastward, I am of opinion
that if a drift were put through the hill other and parallel lodes would be found. Of course
this can only be proved by experience.

The thickness of the lode where I measured it varied from 22-1/2 to 25 inches in the southern
shaft; and although I saw one pinch in the northern, and the fault in the centre one, it can
easily be traced and worked, and should prove most profitable. In the centre shaft it is 24
inches, and in the northern 30 inches.

A curious sort of black substance occurs close to the line of clay which defines the under
side of the lode, and may be remnants of some vegetable material; but with the means at my
disposal I will not give any decided opinion.

Over the rock which forms the main body of the hill lie the usual red clay and oxidised quartz
gravels, which, if treated by hydraulic mining, ought, as it contains gold, to prove a paying
stuff: moreover washing off the surface-dirt would lay bare the rock and render all after-work
easy and simple.

The alluvials in the bottoms should here prove unusually rich, and means might be adopted by
which they should be raised mechanically and then flumed down again.

Ample water supply exists both for hydraulic mining and reef-working; there are good sites
for all necessary machinery and building, and timber as usual is to be had in any quantity
that may be required.

The question of transport is of course a most important one, and in the
present state of the roads and country very expensive; but from the
route-survey I have made I am convinced that a cheap and efficient service
to the mines of this and neighbouring districts would be easily organised,
and that instead of paying, as at present, the absurd price of 4s. or
5s. per ton per mile, it could be reduced to an average of from 4d. to
6d. The shafts now open are--
      South,  45 feet deep, 9 feet by 4 feet 9 inches.
      Centre, 36 feet deep, 8 feet 6 inches by 4 feet 2 inches.
      North,  45 feet deep, 8 feet by 5 feet 10 inches.

This is both a most valuable and interesting piece of country to work, and I hope that it may
soon be provided with all necessary staff, plant and machinery.

Rich returns may be confidently expected, and under proper management should prove a most paying
business.

The exploratory works now existing have been done in an honest and businesslike manner, like
all I have seen where Mr. Crocker and Mr. Turner have worked; and the zeal and intelligence
displayed by Mr. Sam could scarcely be equalled and certainly not surpassed.

I have not said anything about the quantity of gold to the ton, as the experimental crushings
at Crockerville will enable a much more accurate idea to be formed than any I could make from
the hand-washings I saw done.

The boxes of specimens sealed by me are the result of blasts and excavation done whilst I was
on the spot.

[Footnote: TEMPERATURE, ETC., AT CROCKERVILLE.
Date        Thermometer     Bar.    Rainfall
            Max.   Min.    Inches     Ins.
April 1      91º    73º    29.55
 "    2      91     75     29.50      0.06
 "    3      93     74     29.50
 "    4      90     73     29.50
 "    5      96     76     29.40
 "    6      91     71     29.45      3.02
 "    7      80     70     29.50
 "    8      75     71     29.55
 "    9      93     72     29.50      0.01
 "   10      92     73     29.50
 "   11      93     74     29.45      0.02
 "   12      94     72     29.50      0.09
 "   13      95     74     29.50      0.50
 "   14      96     74     29.50
 "   15      96     76     29.50
 "   16      88     74     29.45
 "   17      92     73     29.55
 "   18      89     74     29.55
 "   19      85     74     29.55      0.03
 "   20      91     73     29.60      0.47
 "   21      88     74     29.55      0.01
 "   22      93     74     29.60      0.03
 "   23      92     73     29.55
 "   24      94     73     29.50      0.28
 "   25      93     73     29.50      0.18
 "   26      93     73     29.50      0.26
 "   27      93     74     29.55      0.27
 "   28      88     74     29.50
 "   29      94     74     29.45
 "   30      93     74     29.40      0.26
May   1      90º    73º    29.45      0.40
 "    2      90     72     29.45      0.74

 "    3      81     72     29.50
 "    4      86     73     29.50      0.03
 "    5      88     73     29.55      0.04
 "    6      83     71     29.55
 "    7      89     73     29.50      0.05
 "    8      90     74     29.50
 "    9      91     73     29.45
 "   10      80     71     29.50      0.95
 "   11      89     73     29.45      0.06
 "   12      89     74     29.50
 "   13      94     73     29.35      0.01
 "   14      84     74     29.50
 "   15      89     72     29.50      2.90
 "   16      85     73     29.50
 "   17      79     72     29.60      1.23
 "   18      85     74     29.50
 "   19      82     74     29.55      0.06
 "   20      87     74     29.50
 "   21      88     70     29.50      0.30
 "   22      84     70     29.60      0.92
 "   23      88     72     29.60      0.02
 "   24      87     73     29.60
 "   25      86     72     29.60      1.23
 "   26      82     71     29.60      1.23
 "   27      86     71     29.60      1.54
 "   28      85     73     29.50
 "   29      88     73     29.60
 "   30      82     73     29.55      0.56
 "   31      82     72     29.55
June  1      82     72     29.60      0.18
 "    2      82     72     29.60      1.05
 "    3      83     74     29.55      0.16
 "    4      84     73     29.65      0.05
 "    5      84     73     29.60      0.14
 "    6      84     73     29.55
 "    7      82     72     29.50      0.16
 "    8      82     72     29.65
 "    9      85     73     29.55
 "   10      84     73     29.69
 "   11      80     73     29.55
 "   12      81     72     29.60
 "   13      81     68     29.60      0.02
 "   14      85     66     29.60
 "   15      86     68     29.65
 "   16      86     68     29.60
 "   17      87     69     29.60
 "   18      83     70     29.60
 "   19      82     71     29.60      0.70
 "   20      79     72     29.65      0.14
 "   21      82     72     29.60
 "   22      85     72     29.65      0.03
 "   23      82     73     29.50
 "   24      75     71     29.65      2.20
 "   25      80     71     29.70
 "   26      86     71     29.70
 "   27      80     71     29.65      0.34
 "   28      81     71     29.65
 "   29      81     71     29.60      0.14
 "   30      78     70     29.65
July 1       79     67     29.70
 "   2       79     68     29.65
 "   3       80     71     29.70
 "   4       86     72     29.70      0.60
 "   5       79     72     29.70      0.40
 "   6       81     71     29.60      0.17
 "   7       79     72     29.70
 "   8       81     71     29.70
 "   9       80     70     29.75      0.06
 "   10      79     72     29.60
 "   11      80     71     29.60      0.50
 "   12      80     72     29.60
 "   13      78     70     29.60
 "   14      79     70     29.65
 "   15      80     69     29.70      0.40
 "   16      83     70     29.70
 "   17      81     71     29.60      0.40
 "   18      80     71     29.60
 "   19      79     71     29.65
 "   20      79     70     29.55
 "   21      80     70     29.60
 "   22      80     71     29.60      0.02
 "   23      81     71     29.65
 "   24      80     71     29.65
 "   25      79     71     29.70      3.30
 "   26      79     70     29.70
 "   27      80     70     29.70
 "   28      85     71     29.70
 "   29      81     71     29.65
 "   30      78     70     29.65      0.70
 "   31      79     70     29.65
Aug.  1      78     69     29.65
 "    2      83     72     29.70
 "    3      82     72     29.65      0.56
 "    4      80     70     29.65
 "    5      82     72     29.60
 "    6      79     70     29.60      0.28
 "    7      81     70     29.60
 "    8      80     70     29.60
 "    9      81     70     29.65
 "   10      82     70     29.65      0.40
 "   11      82     70     29.65      0.60
 "   12      81     68     29.65
 "   13      81     67     29.60
 "   14      80     69     29.70
 "   15      83     71     29.65
 "   16      81     69     29.65
 "   17      90     70     29.70
 "   18      86     71     29.65
 "   19      81     70     29.65
 "   20      85     68     29.70
 "   21      83     70     29.70
 "   22      80     70     29.65
 "   23      81     73     29.70
 "   24      84     71     29.65
 "   25      86     70     29.70
 "   26      82     70     29.70
 "   27      84     71     29.65     0.02
 "   28      84     71     29.70     0.01
 "   29      85     72     29.70     0.02
 "   30      86     70     29.70
 "   31      85     71     29.65
Sept. 1      84     72     29.65
 "    2      85     72     29.66
 "    3      87     72     29.65     0.01
 "    4      86     73     29.66     0.15
 "    5      85     72     29.70
 "    6      80     72     29.70     0.15
 "    7      85     72     29.70
 "    8      86     71     29.60     0.18
 "    9      86     72     29.60     1.00
 "   10      80     72     29.70     0.01
 "   11      85     72     29.70     0.01
 "   12      85     73     29.65
 "   13      77     72     29.65     0.50
 "   14      79     72     29.65     0.40
 "   15      83     72     29.65     0.17
 "   16      82     71     29.65     0.46
 "   17      78     70     29.70     0.07
 "   18      86     72     29.55     0.12
 "   19      78     72     29.70     1.14
 "   20      87     72     29.60     0.43
 "   21      78     71     29.66     0.02
 "   22      78     70     29.65     0.30
 "   23      85     71     29.60     0.03
 "   24      85     72     29.70
 "   25      87     72     29.60     0.03
 "   26      84     72     29.60     0.24
 "   27      91     73     29.50
 "   28      89     71     29.50
 "   29      89     71     29.55     0.65
 "   30      91     72     29.65

                    Meteorological Register.

                                1880
         Average Tem. per Diem        Total Rainfall per Month
April            79.00                                   --
May              78.40                                 8.27
June             76.60                                11.24
July             74.79                                 3.44
August           74.22                                 5.30
Sept.            76.28                                 3.08
Oct.             78.05                                 4.89

Highest temperature           on May 21, 94º (1880).

Lowest temperature            on July 6 and 7, 65º.

Highest rainfall in 24 hours	on June 20, 3 25.

Highest variation in 24 hours	on May 2 and 3 94º-68º = 26º.

Lowest variation in 24 hours	on May 14, 76º-74º= 20º.

                                1881
        Average Tem. per Diem        Total Rainfall per Month
April            83.65                                 5.89
May              77.67                                11.21
June             76.73                                 7.08
July             75.32                                 6.65
August           76.46                                 1.89

Highest temperature           on April 5 and 14, 96º (1881).

Lowest temperature            on June 14, 66º.

Highest rainfall in 24 hours 	on July 25, 3 30.

Highest variation in 24 hours on April 14, 96º-74º = 22º.

On April 6 I reached the Mine d'Or d'Aboassu, this being my second visit. The first, on the
previous Sunday, had been more interesting in the point of anthropological than of geological
study. The day of rest had been devoted to a general jollification by most of the whites, and
the blacks had ably followed suit. The best example was set by the doctor attached: he was
said to have emptied sixty-two bottles of cognac during his twenty-three days of steamer-passage.
But, brandy proving insufficient, he had recourse to opium, chloral, and bromide of potassium,
a pint and a half of laudanum barely sufficing for the week. I need hardly say where the abuse
of stimulants and opiates lands a man, either in Western Africa or in England.

From the Abosu village and its abominations I turned sharp to the north-west, and ascended
the steep western flank of Abo Yáo, whose highest point is 312 feet above sea-level. The distance
from Crockerville is a mile and three-quarters, or a mile in a straight line, and from Tákwá,
about six. M. Dahse increases the latter to nine miles, the difference of latitude being three
and a quarter miles, and of longitude four. My map will be the first to correct these distances,
which are exaggerated by the native carriers to get more pay.

The summit of Abo Yáo commands an extensive view to the north. Here the range of vision is
about sixteen miles over the greenest of second growths; and the whole is dotted with buttes
of red clay, somewhat lower than 'On the Stone' (Abosu). It is easy to see that here again
we have an ancient archipelago, like that which formerly fringed the shore of Axim, but of
older formation. In fact, I should not expect to find a true coast before entering the grassy
zone north of the great belt of forest. Each hill must carry at least one core of auriferous
reef. The intervening valleys, gullies, and gulches, seldom more than a hundred feet above
ocean-level, have been warped up by gradual deposition from the north, and are doubtless full
of rich alluvium. This might be worked by steam-navvies, and washed upon the largest possible
scale; the result would be excellent ground for plantations.

I look upon Abosu as an eastern outlier of the greater Tákwá ridge. But although the hill preserves
the normal direction the reef lies almost at right angles to it, crossing the upper end and
striking from north 40º west to south 40º east. I am unable to divine what caused this curious
dislocation. The gold matrix is still the Tákwá gneiss, rarely showing visible metal. Possibly
the present diggings have struck only a large branch or a break.

Here mining-operations have been extensive, and about 1,800 tons of rich stuff have already
been brought to bank. The diggings begin with an open cut of 110 feet; this leads to a tunnel
in the rock partly timbered, by which the lode with a dip of 41º is bisected. Eastward from
the tunnel a gallery has been driven 147 feet along the vein, and westwards there is a similar
passage of 202 feet. About 140 feet on either side of the tunnel two rises, one 16, the other
12 feet long, are being driven up the slope of the reef. On the hill-side above the tunnel
a shaft 80 feet deep has been sunk, but it has not struck the vein: for some peculiar reason
the bottom is made broader than the top; and the mining-captain has a shrewd idea that, like
the native pits of similar form, it may end by 'caving in.' Again, a second tunnel has just
been opened in the southern end of the butte, the engineer hoping to find the main lode lying
conformably, or north with easting.

A little above the northern foot of the Abo Yáo the native workmen are employed in making a
large platform, or terrace, for stamps and other machinery; now it is about 150 × 40 yards.
As yet there is no power. A large open shed of timber-posts, with a roofing of corrugated iron,
stands ready to receive the expected saw-mill. The only actual industry is digging.

At Abosu the personnel is lodged in bamboo-houses scattered over the hill-side, and the settlement
contrasts dismally with the orderly comfort of Crockerville. M. Haillot, acting manager of
Abosu and Tákwá, leads a caravan-life between the two. Fortunately for him the distance is
inconsiderable. I here met Mr. Symonds, a Cornish miner, who has worked in Mexico, and who
speaks Spanish fluently, enabling him to converse with M. Plisson. He was one of our fellow-passengers,
and he rejoiced exceedingly to see me. He and his youngster, Mr. Mitchell, who suffers from
chest-complaint, praised the prospects of the mine, but did not enjoy their pay being cut for
passage and the system of ration-money. Another unwise plan adopted by the French Company is
to stipulate upon twenty working-days, each of ten hours per mensem, in default of which salaries
undergo proportional deduction. This makes the miner work even when he is unfit for exertion.
White labour, however, is confined to superintendence and to laying out and building tunnels.
A Swiss, M. Schneuvelly, acts as general superintendent, and he is assisted by two French ouvriers.
The hands are chiefly Krumen. The style of working is decidedly 'loafy,' and the pipe is touched
at all hours and in all places.

North of Abosu lies the Dahse concession, a square of 1,000 fathoms, to be worked by an Anglo-German
company. I know it only by hearsay and by seeing it upon the owner's map.

M. Haillot invited me to be his guest, and I spent my day in the mine. Next morning (April
8) we retraced our steps towards Tákwá, halting by the way at the northernmost establishment
on the ridge, the 'Gold Coast Mining Company (Limited).' This concession, an area of 1000 x
500 fathoms, on the west of the hill-height, does not as yet show much progress; and the works
seem to have increased but little since last year. There are two shafts and two tunnels to
strike the lode. The ore brought to grass was not in large quantities, although I had heard
to the contrary. The stone is said to be abnormally rich, yielding seven ounces of gold to
the ton; but I did not think it richer than its neighbours, and I suspect that it will have
to be rated at one-seventh. The manager's house, also on the west of the hill, consists of
one large room of plankage, raised on posts and thatched. The brothers Gowan, who are working
exceedingly hard, and Mr. Kenyon, who is leaving for England, were the only white men I saw.
The hands are chiefly Kruboys and the artificers Sierra Leonites. Since Mr. Creswick's departure
for Europe some changes have been made. Mr. Growan, the acting manager, has transferred the
future works to a higher level, and has fitted up a reduction-office where there is, at present,
nothing to reduce. Crucibles and chemicals are ranged round a long room with an iron roof.
The tenant has borrowed a mortar-box, two stamp-heads, shoes, and dies, and has fitted them
with wooden stems and cam-shafts. He proposes to drive them by two-man power, in order to crush
three tons of ore per diem and to test a new patent amalgamator.

I breakfasted with the scanty staff and then walked down the western valley to the Tákwá establishment,
the oldest of the new mining-industries in the Protectorate. I place the African Gold Coast
Company, by calculation, in N. lat. 18º 20' and W. long. (Gr.) 1º 57' 40". It is therefore
fifteen direct geographical miles from Tumento instead of thirty; twenty-seven (not sixty)
from Axim, and thirty-five from Dixcove, formerly supposed to be the nearest port. This position
will make an important difference in sundry plans and projects which were made under old and
erroneous ideas of its topography. At present the cost of transport from Tumento to Effuenta
is 6d. for 10 lbs., 8d. to Tákwá, and 10 d. to Abosu.

