 The larger part of the wreck floated buoyantly, and seizing it
the men supported themselves by it until a few hundred feet farther down they came to a second
fall, filled with huge boulders, upon which the wreck was dashed to pieces, and the men and
the fragments were again carried out of Major Powell's sight. He struggled along the scant
foothold afforded by the cañon-wall, and coming suddenly to a bend saw one of the men in a
whirlpool below a large rock, to which he was clinging with all possible tenacity. It was Goodman,
and a little farther on was Howland tossed upon a small island, with his brother stranded upon
a rock some distance below. Howland struck out for Goodman with a pole, by means of which he
relieved him from his precarious position, and very soon the wrecked crew stood together, bruised,
shaken and scared, but not disabled. A swift, dangerous river was on each side of them and
a fall below them. It was now a problem how to release them from this imprisonment. Sumner
volunteered, and in one of the other boats started out from above the island, and with skilful
paddling landed upon it. Together with the three shipwrecked men he then pushed up stream until
all stood up to their necks in water, when one of them braced himself against a rock and held
the boat while the three others jumped into her: the man on the rock followed, and all four
then pulled vigorously for the shore, which they reached in safety. Many years before an adventurous
trapper and his party had been wrecked here and several lives had been lost. Major Powell named
the spot Disaster Falls.

The cliffs are so high that the twilight is perpetual, and the sky seems like a flat roof pressed
across them. As the worn men stretched themselves out in their blankets they saw a bright star
that appeared to rest on the very verge of the eastern cliff, and then to float from its resting-place
on the rock over the cañon. At first it was like a jewel set on the brink of the cliff, and
as it moved out from the rock they wondered that it did not fall. It did seem to descend in
a gentle curve, and the other stars were apparently in the cañon, as if the sky was spread
over the gulf, resting on either wall and swayed down by its own weight.

Sixteen days after leaving Green River City the explorers reached the end of the Cañon of Lodore,
which is nearly twenty-four miles long. The walls were never less than two thousand feet high
except near the foot. They are very irregular, standing in perpendicular or overhanging cliffs
here, terraced there, or receding in steep slopes broken by many side-gulches.

A few days later they were upset again, losing oars, guns and barometers, and on July 18th
they had only enough provisions left for two months, though they had supplied themselves with
quantities which, barring accidents, should have lasted ten months. On July 19th the Grand
Cañon of the Colorado became visible, and from an eminence they could follow its course for
miles and catch glimpses of the river. The Green, down which they had come so far, bears in
from the north-west through a narrow, winding gorge. The Grand comes in from the north-east
through a channel which from the explorer's point of view seems bottomless. Away to the west
are lines of cliffs and ledges of rock, with grotesque forms intervening. In the east a chain
of eruptive mountains is visible, the slopes covered with pines, the summits coated with snow
and the gulches flanked by great crags. They passed the junction of the Grand and Green, and
on July 21st they were on the Colorado itself. But the tranquillity is not lasting: a little
way below this space of majestic calm it was necessary to make three portages in succession,
the distance being less than three-quarters of a mile, with a fall of seventy-five feet. In
the evening Major Powell sat upon a rock by the edge of the river to look at the water and
listen to its roar. Heavy shadows settled in the cañon as the sun passed behind the cliffs,
and no glint of light remained on the crags above, but the waves were crested with a white
that seemed luminous. A great fall broke at the foot of a block of limestone fifty feet high,
and rolled back in immense billows. Over the sunken rocks the flood was heaped up into mounds
and even cones. The tumult was extraordinary. At a point where the rocks were very near the
surface the water was thrown up ten or fifteen feet, and fell back in gentle curves as in a
fountain.

On August 3d the party traversed a cañon of diversified features. The walls were still vertical
in places, especially near the bends, and the river sweeping round the capes had undermined
the cliffs. Sometimes the rocks overarched: again curious narrow glens were found. The men
explored the glens, in one of which they discovered a natural stairway several hundred feet
high leading to a spring which burst out from an overhanging cliff among aspens and willows,
while along the edges of the brooklet there were oaks and other rich vegetation. There were
also many side-cañons with walls nearer to each other above than below, giving them the character
of grottoes; and there were carved walls, arches, alcoves and monuments, to all of which the
collective name of Glen Cañon was given.

One morning the surveyors came to a point where the river filled the entire channel and the
walls were sheer to the water's edge. They saw a fall below, and in order to inspect it they
pulled up against one of the cliffs, in which was a little shelf or crevice a few feet above
their heads. One man stood on the deck of the boat while another climbed over his shoulders
into this insecure foothold, along which they passed until it became a shelf which was broken
by a chasm some yards farther on. They then returned to the boat and pulled across the stream
for some logs which had lodged on the opposite shore, and with which it was intended to bridge
the gulf. It was no easy work hauling the wood along the fissure, but with care and patience
they accomplished it, and reached a point in the cliffs from which the falls could be seen.
It seemed practicable to lower the boats over the stormy waters by holding them with ropes
from the cliffs; and this was done successfully, the incident illustrating how laborious their
progress sometimes became.

The scenery was of unending interest. At an elbow of the river the water has excavated a semicircular
chamber which would hold fifty thousand people, and farther on the cliffs are of softly-tinted
marble lustrously polished by the waves. At one place Major Powell walked for more than a mile
on a marble pavement fretted with strange devices and embossed with a thousand different patterns.
Through a cleft in the wall the sun shone on this floor, which gleamed with iridescent beauty.
Exploring the cleft, Major Powell found a succession of pools one above another, and each cold
and clear, though the water of the river was a dull red. Then a bend in the cañon disclosed
a massive abutment that seemed to be set with a million brilliant gems as they approached it,
and every one wondered. To the place above where the three portages were necessary the name
of Cataract Cañon was given; and they were now well into the Grand Cañon itself. The walls
were more than a mile in height, and, as Major Powell says, a vertical altitude like this is
not easily pictured. A thousand feet of the distance is through granite crags, above which
are slopes and perpendicular cliffs to the summit. The gorge is black and narrow below, red
and gray and flaring above.

Down these gloomy depths the expedition constantly glided, ever listening and ever peering
ahead, for the cañon is winding and they could not see more than a few hundred yards in advance.
The view changed every minute as some new crag or pinnacle or glen or peak became visible;
but the men were fully engaged listening for rapids and looking for rocks. Navigation was exceedingly
difficult, and it was often necessary to hold the boats from ledges in the cliffs as the falls
were passed. The river was very deep and the cañon very narrow. The waters boiled and rushed
in treacherous currents, which sometimes whirled the boats into the stream or hurried them
against the walls. The oars were useless, and each crew labored for its own preservation as
its frail vessel was spun round like a top or borne with the speed of a locomotive this way
and that.

While they were thus uncontrollable the boats entered a rapid, and one of them was driven in
shore, but as there was no foothold for a portage the men pushed into the stream again. The
next minute a reflex wave filled the open compartment and water-logged her: breaker after breaker
rolled over her, and one capsized her. The men were thrown out, but they managed to cling to
her, and as they were swept down the other boats rescued them.

Heavy clouds rolled in the cañon, filling it with gloom. Sometimes they hung above from wall
to wall and formed a roof: then a gust of wind from a side-cañon made a rift in them and the
blue heavens were revealed, or they dispersed in patches which settled on the crags, while
puffs of vapor issued out of the smaller gulches, and occasionally formed bars across the cañon,
one above another, each opening a different vista. When they discharged their rains little
rills first trickled down the cliff, and these soon became brooks: the brooks grew into creeks
and tumbled down through innumerable cascades, which added their music to the roar of the river.
As soon as the rain ceased rills, brooks, creeks and cascades disappeared, their birth and
death being equally sudden.

Desolate and inaccessible as the cañon is, many ruins of buildings are found perched upon ledges
in the stupendous cliffs. In some instances the mouths of caves have been walled in, and the
evidences all point to a race for ever dreading and fortifying itself against an invader. Why
did these people chose their embattlements so far away from all tillable land and sources of
subsistence? The Spanish conquerors had a monstrous greed for gold and a lust for saving souls.

The rains and the accidents in the rapids had seriously reduced the commissary by this time,
and the provisions left were more or less injured. The bacon was uneatable, and had to be thrown
away: the flour was musty, and the saleratus was lost overboard. On August 17th the party had
only enough food remaining for ten days' use, and though they hoped that the worst places had
been passed, the barometers were broken, and they did not know what descent they had yet to
make. The canvas which they had brought with them for covering from Green River City was rotten,
there was not one blanket apiece for the men, and more than half the party were hatless. Despite
their hopes that the greatest obstacles had been overcome, however, on the morning of August
27th they reached a place which appeared more perilous than any they had so far passed. They
landed on one side of the river, and clambered over the granite pinnacles for a mile or two
without seeing any way by which they could lower the boats. Then they crossed to the other
side and walked along the top of a crag. In his eagerness to reach a point where he could see
the roaring fall below, Major Powell went too far, and was caught at a point where he could
neither advance nor retreat: the river was four hundred feet below, and he was suspended in
front of the cliff with one foot on a small projecting rock and one hand fixed in a little
crevice. He called for help, and the men passed him a line, but he could not let go of the
rock long enough to seize it. While he felt his hold becoming weaker and expected momentarily
to drop into the cañon, the men went to the boats and obtained three of the largest oars. The
blade of one of them was pushed into the crevice of a rock beyond him in such a manner that
it bound him across the body to the wall, and another oar was fixed so that he could stand
upon it and walk out of the difficulty. He breathed again, but had felt that cold air which
seems to fan one when death is near.

Another hour was spent in examining the river, but a good view of it could not be obtained,
and they once more went to the opposite side. After some hard work among the cliffs they discovered
that the lateral streams had washed a large number of boulders into the river, forming a dam
over which the water made a broken fall of about twenty feet, below which was a rapid beset
by huge rocks for two or three hundred yards. This was bordered on one side by a series of
sharp projections of the cañon-walls, and beyond it was a second fall, ending in another and
no less threatening rapid. At the bottom of the latter an immense slab of granite projected
fully halfway across the river, and upon the inclined plane which it formed the water rolled
with all the momentum gained in the falls and rapids above, and then swept over to the left.
The men viewed the prospect with dismay, but Major Powell had an insatiable desire to complete
the exploration. He decided that it was possible to let the boats down over the first fall,
then to run near the right cliff to a point just above the second fall, where they could pull
into a little chute, and from the foot of that across the stream to avoid the great rock below.
The men shook their heads, and after supper--a sorry supper of unleavened flour and water,
coffee and rancid bacon, eaten on the rocks--the elder Howland endeavored to dissuade the leader
from his purpose, and, failing to do so, told him that he with his brother and Dunn would go
no farther. That night Major Powell did not sleep at all, but paced to and fro, now measuring
the remaining provisions, then contemplating the rushing falls and rapids. Might not Howland
be right? Would it be wise to venture into that maëlstrom which was white during the darkest
hours of the night? At one time he almost concluded to leave the river and to strike out across
the table-lands for the Mormon settlements. But this trip had been the object of his life for
many years, looked forward to and dreamed of, and to leave the exploration unfinished when
he was so near the end, to acknowledge defeat, was more than he could reconcile himself to.

In the morning his brother, Captain Powell, Sumner, Bradley, Hall and Hawkins promised to remain
with him, but the Howlands and Dunn were fixed in their determination to go no farther. The
provisions were divided, and one of the boats was left with the deserters, who were also provided
with three guns: Howland was also entrusted with duplicate copies of the records and with some
mementos the voyagers desired to have sent to friends and relatives should they not be heard
of again. It was a solemn parting. The Howlands and Dunn entreated the others not to go on,
telling them that it was obvious madness; but the decision had been made, and the two boats
pushed out into the stream.

They glided rapidly along the foot of the wall, grazing one large rock, and then they pulled
into the falls and plunged over them. The open compartment of the major's boat was filled when
she struck the first wave below, but she cut through the upheaval, and by vigorous strokes
was drawn away from the dangerous rock farther down. They were scarcely a minute in running
through the rapids, and found that what had seemed almost hopeless from above was really less
difficult than many other points on the river. The Rowlands and their companion were now out
of sight, and guns were fired to indicate to them that the passage had been safely made and
to induce them to follow; but no answer came, and after waiting two hours the descent of the
river was resumed.

A succession of falls and rapids still had to be overcome, and in the afternoon the explorers
were once more threatened with defeat. A little stream entered the cañon from the left, and
immediately below the river broke over two falls, beyond which it rose in high waves and subsided
in whirlpools. The boats hugged the left wall for some distance, but when the men saw that
they could not descend on this side they pulled up stream several hundred yards and crossed
to the other. Here there was a bed of basalt about one hundred feet high, which, disembarking,
they followed, pulling the boats after them by ropes. The major, as usual, went ahead, and
discovered that it would be impossible to lower the boats from the cliff; but the men had already
brought one of them to the brink of the falls and had secured her by a bight around a crag.
The other boat, in which Bradley had remained, was shooting in and out from the cliffs with
great violence, now straining the line by which she was held, and now whirling against the
rock as if she would dash herself to pieces. An effort was made to pass another rope to Bradley,
but he was so preoccupied that he did not notice it, and the others saw him take a knife out
of its sheath and step forward to cut the line. He had decided that it was better to go over
the falls with her than to wait for her to be completely wrecked against the rocks. He did
not show the least alarm, and as he leaned over to cut the rope the boat sheered into the stream,
the stern-post broke and he was adrift. With perfect composure he seized the large scull-oar,
placed it in the stern rowlock and pulled with all his strength, which was considerable, to
turn the bow down stream. After the third stroke she passed over the falls and was invisible
for several seconds, when she reappeared upon a great wave, dancing high over its crest, then
sinking between two vast walls of water. The men on the cliff held their breath as they watched.
Again she disappeared, and this time was out of sight so long that poor Bradley's fate seemed
settled; but in a moment more something was noticed emerging from the water farther down the
stream: it was the boat, with Bradley standing on deck and twirling his hat to show that he
was safe. He was spinning round in a whirlpool, however, and Sumner and Powell were sent along
the cliff to see if they could help him, while the major and the others embarked in the remaining
boat and passed over the fall. After reaching the brink they do not remember what happened
to them, except that their boat was upset and that Bradley pulled them out of the water. Powell
and Sumner joined them by climbing along the cliff, and, having put the boats in order, they
once more started down the stream.

On the next day, August 29th, three months and five days after leaving Green River City, they
reached the foot of the Grand Cañon of the Colorado, the passage of which had been of continuous
peril and toil, and on the 30th they ended their exploration at a ranch, from which the way
was easy to Salt Lake City.

It was about a year afterward that their fate became known. Major Powell was continuing his
explorations, and having passed through Pa-ru-nu-weap (or Roaring Water) Cañon, he spent some
time among the Indians in the region beyond, from whom he learned that three white men had
been killed the year before. They had come upon the Indian village starving and exhausted with
fatigue, saying that they had descended the Grand Cañon. They were fed and started on the way
to the settlements, but they had not gone far when an Indian arrived from the east side of
the Colorado and told of some miners who had killed a squaw in a drunken brawl. He incited
the tribe to follow and attack the three whites, who no doubt were the murderers. Their story
of coming down the Grand Cañon was impossible--no men had ever done that--and it was a falsehood
designed to cover their guilt. Excited by a desire for revenge, a party stole after them, surrounded
them in ambush and filled them with arrows. This was the tragic end of Dunn and the Rowland
brothers.

Little need be added. The unflinching courage, the quiet persistence and the inexhaustible
zeal of Major Powell enabled him to achieve a geographical exploit which had been deemed wholly
impracticable, and which in adventurousness puts most of the feats of the Alpine Club in the
shade. But the narrative may derive a further interest from one other fact concerning this
intrepid explorer, whom we have seen standing at the bow of his boats and guiding them over
tempestuous falls, rapids and whirlpools, soaring among the crags of almost perpendicular cañon-walls
and suspended by his fingers from the rocks four hundred feet above the level of the river:
Major Powell is a one-armed man!

                          WILLIAM H. RIDEING.

ADAM AND EVE.

CHAPTER XXX.

For an instant every one seemed paralyzed and transfixed in the position into which upon Jonathan's
entrance they had started. Then a sudden rush was made toward the door, which several of the
strongest blocked up, while Adam called vainly on them to stand aside and give the chance of
more air. Joan flew for water, and Jerrem dashed it over Jonathan.

There was a minute of anxious watching, and then slowly over Jonathan's pallid face the signs
of returning animation began to creep.

"Now, stand back--stand back from him, do!" said Adam, fearing the effect of so many faces
crowding near would only serve to further daze his scared senses.--"What is it, Jonathan? what
is it, lad?" he asked, kneeling down by him.

Jonathan tried to rise, and Adam motioned for Barnabas Tadd to come and assist in getting him
on his feet.

"Now, sit down there," said Adam, "and put your lips to this, and then tell us what's up."

Jonathan cowered down as he threw a hasty glance round, the meaning of which was answered by
a general "You knaws all of us, Jonathan, don't ee?"

"Iss," said Jonathan, breaking into a feeble laugh, "but somehows I'd a rinned till I'd got
'em all, as I fancied, to my heels, close by."

"And where are they, then?" said Adam, seizing the opportunity of getting at the most important
fact.

"Comin' 'long t' roadway, man by man, and straddled on to their horses' backs. They'm to take
'ee all, dead or livin', sarch by night or day. Some o' 'em is come all the ways fra Plymouth,
vowin' and swearin' they'll have blid for blid, and that if they can't pitch 'pon he who fired
to kill their man every sawl aboard the Lottery shall swing gallows-high for un."

A volley of oaths ran through the room, Joan threw up her arms in despair, Eve groaned aloud.

Suddenly there was a movement as if some one was breaking from a detaining hand. 'Twas Jerrem,
who, pushing forward, cried out, "Then I'll give myself up to wance: nobody sha'n't suffer
'cos o' me. I did it, and I wasn't afeared to do it, neither, and no more I ain't afeared to
answer for it now."

The buzz which negatived this offer bespoke the appreciation of Jerrem's magnanimity.

Adam alone had taken no part in it: turning, he said sternly, "Do we risk our lives together,
then, to skulk off when danger offers and leave one to suffer for all? Let's have no more of
such idle talk. While things promised to run smooth you was welcome to the boast of havin'
fired first shot, but now every man aboard fired it; and let he who says he didn't stand out
and say it now."

"Fair spoke and good sense," said the men.

"Then off with you, each to the place he thinks safest.--Jerrem and you, father, must stay
here. I shall go to the mill, and, Jonathan, for the night you'd best come along with me."

With little visible excitement and but few words the men began to depart, all of them more
or less stupefied by the influence of drink, which, combined with this unexpected dash to their
hopes and overthrow of their boastings, seemed to rob them of all their energy. They were ready
to do whatever they were asked, go wherever they were told, listen to all that was said, but
anything beyond this was then impossible. They had no more power of deciding, proposing, arranging
for themselves, than if they had been a flock of sheep warned that a ravenous wolf was near.

The one necessary action which seemed to have laid hold upon them was that they must all solemnly
shake hands; and this in many cases they did over and over again, repeating each time, with
a warning nod of the head, "Well, mate, 'tis a bad job o' it, this," until some of the more
collected felt it necessary to interfere and urge their immediate departure: then one by one
they stole away, leaving the house in possession of its usual occupants.

Adam had already been up stairs to get Uncle Zebedee--now utterly incapable of any thought
for himself--safely placed in a secret closet which was hollowed in the wall behind the bed.
Turning to Jerrem as he came down, he said, "You can manage to stow yourself away; only mind,
do it at once, so that the house is got quiet before they've time to get here."

"All right," said Jerrem doggedly, while Joan slid back the seat of the settle, turned down
a flap in the wall, and discovered the hole in which Jerrem was to lie concealed. "There! there
ain't another hidin'-place like that in all Polperro," she said. "They may send a whole reg'ment
o' sodgers afore a man among 'em 'ull pitch on 'ee there, Jerrem."

"And that's the reason why I don't want to have it," said Jerrem. "I don't see why I'm to have
the pick and choice, and why Adam's to go off to where they've only got to search and find."

"Well, but 'tis as he says," urged Joan. "They may ha' got you in their eye already. Come,
'tis all settled now," she continued persuasively; "so get 'longs in with 'ee, like a dear."

Jerrem gave a look round. Eve was busy clearing the table, Adam was putting some tobacco into
his pouch. He hesitated, then he made a step forward, then he drew back again, until at last,
with visible effort, he said, "Come, give us yer hand, Adam." With no affectation of cordiality
Adam held out his hand. "Whatever comes, you've spoke up fair for me, and acted better than
most would ha' done, seem' that I've let my tongue run a bit too fast 'bout you o' late."

"Oh, don't think I've done any more for you than I should ha' done for either one o' the others,"
said Adam, not willing to accept a feather's weight of Jerrem's gratitude. "However," he added,
trying to force himself into a greater show of graciousness, "here's wishin' all may go well
with you, as with all of us!"

Not over-pleased with this cold reception of his advances, Jerrem turned hastily round to Joan.
"Here, let's have a kiss, Joan," he said.

"Iss, twenty, my dear, so long as you'll only be quick 'bout it."

"Eve!"

"There! nonsense now!" exclaimed Joan, warned by an expression in Adam's face: "there's no
call for no leave-takin' with Eve: her'll be here so well as you."

The words, well-intentioned as they were, served as fuel to Adam's jealous fire, and for a
moment he felt that it was impossible to go away and leave Jerrem behind; but the next instant
the very knowledge of that passing weakness was only urging him to greater self-command, although
the effort it cost him gave a hardness to his voice and a coldness to his manner. One tender
word, and his resolve would be gone--one soft emotion, and to go would be impossible.

Eve, on her part, with all her love reawakened, her fears excited and her imagination sharpened,
was wrought up to a pitch of emotion which each moment grew more and more beyond her control.
In her efforts to keep calm she busied herself in clearing the table and moving to and fro
the chairs, all the time keenly alive to the fact that Joan was hovering about Adam, suggesting
comforts, supplying resources and pouring out a torrent of wordy hopes and fears. Surely Adam
would ask--Joan would think to give them--one moment to themselves? If not she would demand
it, but before she could speak, boom on her heart came Adam's "Good-bye, Joan, good-bye." What
can she do now? How bear this terrible parting? In her efforts to control the desire to give
vent to her agony her powers of endurance utterly gave way. A rushing sound as of many waters
came gurgling in her ears, dulling the voice of some one who spoke from far off.

"What are they saying?" In vain she tried to catch the words, to speak, to move: then, gathering
up all her strength, with a piercing cry she tried to break the spell. The room reeled, the
ground beneath her gave way, a hundred voices shrieked good-bye, and with their clamor ringing
in her ears Eve's spirit went down into silence and darkness. Another minute, and she was again
alive to all her misery: Joan was kneeling beside her, the tears streaming from her eyes.

"What is it? Where's Adam?" exclaimed Eve, starting up.

"Gone," said Joan: "he said 'twas better to, 'fore you comed to yourself agen."

"Gone! and never said a word?" she cried. "Gone! Oh, Joan, how could he? how could he?"

"What would 'ee have un do, then?" said Joan sharply. "Bide dallyin' here to be took by the
hounds o' sodgers that's marchin' 'pon us all? That's fine love, I will say." But suddenly
a noise outside made them both start and stand listening with beating hearts until all again
was still and quiet: then Joan's quick-roused anger failed her, and, repenting her sharp speech,
she threw her arms round Eve's neck, crying, "Awh, Eve, don't 'ee lets you and me set 'bout
quarrellin', my dear, for if sorrow ain't a-drawin' nigh my name's not Joan Hocken. I never
before felt the same way as I do to-night. My spirits is gived way: my heart seems to have
falled flat down and died within me, and, be doing what I may, there keeps soundin' in my ears
a nickety-knock like the tappin' on a coffin-lid."

CHAPTER XXXI.

Since the night on which Jonathan's arrival had plunged the party assembled at Zebedee Pascal's
into such dismay a week had passed by--seven days and nights of terror and confusion.

The determined manner in which the government authorities traced out each clew and tracked
every scent struck terror into the stoutest hearts, and men who had never before shrunk from
danger in any open form now feared to show their faces, dared not sleep in their own houses,
nor, except by stealth, visit their own families. At dead of night, as well as in the blaze
of day, stealthy descents would be made upon the place, the houses surrounded and strict search
made. One hour the streets would be deserted, the next every corner bristled with rude soldiery,
flinging insults and imprecations on the feeble old men and defenceless women, who, panic-stricken,
stood about vainly endeavoring to seem at their ease and keep up a show of indifference.

One of the first acts had been to seize the Lottery, and orders had been issued to arrest all
or any of her crew, wherever they might be found; but as yet no trace of them had been discovered.
Jerrem and Uncle Zebedee still lay concealed within the house, and Adam at the mill, crouched
beneath corn-bins, lay covered by sacks and grain, while the tramp of the soldiers sounded
in his ears or the ring of their voices set his stout heart quaking with fear of discovery.
To men whose lives had been spent out of doors, with the free air of heaven and the fresh salt
breeze of the sea constantly sweeping over them, toil and hardship were pastimes compared to
this inactivity; and it was little to be wondered at that for one and all the single solace
left seemed drink. Drink deadened their restlessness, benumbed their energies, made them forget
their dangers, sleep through their durance. So that even Adam could not always hold out against
a solace which helped to shorten the frightful monotony of those weary days, dragged out for
the most time in solitude and darkness. With no occupation, no resources, no companion, ever
dwelling on self and viewing each action, past and present, by the light of an exaggerated
(often a distorted) vision, Adam grew irritable, morose, suspicious.

Why hadn't Joan come? Surely there couldn't be anything to keep Eve away? And if so, might
they not send a letter, a message or some token to show him that he was still in their thoughts?
In vain did Mrs. Tucker urge the necessity of a caution hitherto unknown: in vain did she repeat
the stories brought of footsteps dogged, and houses watched so that their inmates dare not
run the smallest risk for fear of its leading to detection. Adam turned a deaf ear to all she
said, sinking at last down to the conclusion that he could endure such suspense no longer,
and, come what might, must the next day steal back home and satisfy himself how things were
going on. The only concession to her better judgment which Mrs. Tucker could gain was his promise
to wait until she had been in to Polperro to reconnoitre; for though, from having seen a party
of soldiers pass that morning, they knew some of the troop had left, it was impossible to say
how many remained behind nor whether they had received fresh strength from the opposite direction.

"I sha'n't give no more o' they than I sees the wisdom of," reflected Mrs. Tucker as, primed
with questions to ask Joan and messages to give to Eve, she securely fastened the doors preparatory
to her departure. "If I was to tell up such talk to Eve her'd be piping off here next minit
or else sendin' back a pack o' silly speeches that 'ud make Adam mazed to go to she. 'Tis wonderful
how took up he is with a maid he knows so little of. But there! 'tis the same with all the
men, I b'lieve--tickle their eye and good-bye to their judgment." And giving the outer gate
a shake to assure herself that it could not be opened without a preparatory warning to those
within, Mrs. Tucker turned away and out into the road.

A natural tendency to be engrossed by personal interests, together with a life of narrowed
circumstances, had somewhat blunted the acuteness of Mrs. Tucker's impressionable sensibilities,
yet she could not but be struck at the change these last two weeks had wrought in the aspect
of the place. The houses, wont to stand open so that friendly greetings might be exchanged,
were now closed and shut; the blinds of most of the windows were drawn down; the streets, usually
thronged with idlers, were all but deserted; the few shops empty of wares and of customers.
Calling to her recollection the frequent prophetic warnings she had indulged in about these
evil days to come, Mrs. Tucker's heart smote her. Surely Providence had never taken her at
her word and really brought a judgment on the place? If so, seeing her own kith and kin would
be amongst the most to suffer, it had read a very wrong meaning in her words; for it stood
to reason when folks talked serious-like they didn't always stop to measure what they said,
and if a text or two o' Scripture sounded seemly, 'twas fitted in to help their speech out
with, not to be pulled abroad to seek the downright meanin' o' each word.

Subdued and oppressed by these and like reflections, Mrs. Tucker reached Uncle Zebedee's house,
inside which the change wrought was in keeping with the external sadness. Both girls looked
harassed and careworn--Joan, now that there was no further occasion for that display of spirit
and bravado which before the soldiers she had successfully contrived to maintain, utterly broken
down and apathetically dejected; Eve, unable to enter into all the difficulties or sympathize
in the universal danger, ill at ease with herself and irritable with all around her. In her
anxiety to hear about Adam--what message he had sent and whether she could not go to see him--she
had barely patience to listen to Mrs. Tucker's roundabout details and lugubrious lamentations,
and, choosing a very inopportune moment, she broke out with, "What message has Adam sent, Mrs.
Tucker? He's sent a message to me, I'm sure: I know he must have."

"Awh, well, if you knaws, you don't want to be told, then," snorted Mrs. Tucker, ill pleased
at having her demands upon sympathy put to such sudden flight. "Though don't you think, Eve,
that Adam hasn't got somethin' else to think of than sendin' love-messages and nonsense o'
that sort? He's a good deal too much took up 'bout the trouble we'm all in for that.--He hoped
you was all well, and keepin' yer spirits up, Joan."

"Poor sawl!" sighed Joan: "I 'spects he finds that's more than he can do."

"Ah, you may well say that," replied Mrs. Tucker, casting a troubled look toward her daughter's
altered face. "Adam's doin' purtty much the same as you be, Joan--frettin' his insides out."

"He's fretting, then?" gasped Eve, managing to get the words past the great lump which seemed
to choke her further utterance.

"Frettin'," repeated Mrs. Tucker with severity. "But there! why should I?" she added, as if
blaming her sense of injury. "I keeps forgettin' that, compared with Joan, Eve, you'm nothin'
but a stranger, as you may say; and, though I dare say I sha'n't get your thanks for saying
it, still Adam could tell 'ee so well as me that fresh faces is all very well in fair weather,
but in times of trouble they counts for very little aside o' they who's bin brought up from
the same cradle, you may say."

Eve's swelling heart could bear no more. This sense of being set aside and looked on as a stranger
was a gall which of late she had been frequently called upon to endure, but to have it hinted
at that Adam could share in this feeling toward her--oh, it was too much, and rising hastily
she turned to run up stairs.

"Now, there's no call to fly off in no tantrums, Eve," said Mrs. Tucker; "so just sit down
now and listen to what else I've got to say."

But Eve's outraged love could hide itself no longer: to answer Joan's mother with anything
like temper was impossible, and, knowing this, her only refuge was in flight. "I don't want
to hear any more you may have to say, Mrs. Tucker;" and though Eve managed to keep under the
sharpness of her voice, she could not control the indignant expression of her face, which Mrs.
Tucker fully appreciating, she speeded her departure by the inspiriting prediction that if
Eve didn't sup sorrow by the spoonful before her hair was gray her name wasn't Ann Tucker.

"Awh, don't 'ee say that," said Joan. "You'm over-crabbit with her, mother, and her only wantin'
to hear some word that Adam had sent to her ownself."

"But, mercy 'pon us! her must give me time to fetch my breath," exclaimed Mrs. Tucker indignantly,
"and I foaced to fly off as I did for fear that Adam should forestall me and go doin' somethin'
foolish!"

"He ain't wantin' to come home?" said Joan hurriedly.

"Iss, but he is, though. And when us see they sodgers go past I thought no other than he'd
a set off then and there. As I said to un, ''Tis true you knows o' they that's gone, but how
can 'ee tell how many's left behind?'"

Joan shook her head. "They'm all off," she said: "every man of 'em's gone; but, for all that,
Adam mustn't come anighst us or show his face in the place. 'Tis held everywhere that this
move is nothin' but a decoy to get the men out o' hidin', and that done, back they'll all come
and drop down on 'em."

"Well, then, I'd best go back to wanst," cried Mrs. Tucker, starting up, "and try and put a
stop to his comin', tho' whether he'll pay any heed to what I say is more than I'll answer for."

"Tell un," said Joan, "that for all our sakes he mustn't come, and say that I've had word that
Jonathan's lurkin' nigh about here some place, so I reckon there's somethin' up; and what it
is he shall know so soon as I can send word to un. Say that ought to tell un 'tisn't safe to
stir, 'cos he knows that Jonathan would sooner have gone to he than to either wan here."

"Well, I'll tell un all you tells me to," said Mrs. Tucker with a somewhat hopeless expression;
"but you knaw what Adam is, Joan, when he fixes his mind on anythin'; and I've had the works
o' the warld to keep un from comin' already: he takes such fancies about 'ee all as you never
did. I declare if I didn't knaw that p'r'aps he's a had more liquor than he's used to take
o' times I should ha' fancied un light-headed like."

"And so he'll be if you gives much sperrit to un, mother," said Joan anxiously: "'tis sure
to stir his temper up. But there!" she added despondingly, "what can anybody do? 'Tis all they
ha' got to fly to. There's Jerrem at it fro' mornin' to night; and as for uncle, dear sawl!
he's as happy as a clam at high watter."

"Iss, I reckon," said Mrs. Tucker: "it don't never matter much what goes wrong, so long as
uncle gets his fill o' drink. I've said scores o' times uncle's joy 'ud never run dry so long
as liquor lasted."

"Awh, well," said Joan, "I don't knaw what us should ha' done if there'd ha' bin no drink to
give 'em: they'd ha' bin more than Eve and me could manage, I can tell 'ee. Nobody but our
ownselves, mother, will ever knaw what us two maidens have had to go through."

"You've often had my thoughts with 'ee, Joan," said Mrs. Tucker, her eyes dimmed by a rush
of motherly sympathy for all the girls must have suffered; "and you can tell Eve (for her'll
take it better from you than from me) that Adam's allays a-thinkin' of her, and begged and
prayed that she wudn't forget un."

"No fear o' that," said Joan, anxious that her mother should depart; "and mind now you say,
no matter what time 'tis, directly I'se seen Jonathan and knaws 'tis safe for we somebody shall
bring un word to come back, for Eve and me's longin' to have a sight of un."

Charged with these messages, Mrs. Tucker hastened back to the mill, where all had gone well
since her departure, and where she found Adam more tractable and reasonable than she had had
reason to anticipate. He listened to all Joan's messages, agreed with her suspicions and seemed
contented to abide by her decision. The plain, unvarnished statement which Mrs. Tucker gave
of the misery and gloom spread over the place affected him visibly, and her account of the
two girls, and the alteration she had seen in them, did not tend to dispel his emotion.

"As for Joan," she said, letting a tear escape and trickle down her cheek, "'tis heart-breakin'
to look at her. Her's terrible wrapped up in you, Adam, is Joan--more than, as her mother,
I cares for her to awn to, seein' how you'm situated with Eve."

"Oh, Eve never made no difference 'twixt us two," said Adam. Then, after a pause, he asked,
"Didn't Eve give you no word to give to me?"

"Well, no," said Mrs. Tucker: then, with the determination to deal fairly, she added quickly,
"but her was full o' questions about 'ee, and that 'fore I'd time to draw breath inside the
place." Adam was silent, and Mrs. Tucker, considering the necessity for further explanation
removed by the compromise she had made, continued: "You see, what with Jerrem and uncle, and
the drink that goes on, they two poor maidens is kept pretty much on the go; and Eve, never
bein' used to no such ways, seems terrible harried by it all."

"Harried?" repeated Adam, with ill-suppressed bitterness, "and well she may be; still, I should
ha' thought she might have managed to send, if 'twas no more than a word, back to me."

CHAPTER XXXII.

Under the plea that, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, Jonathan might still possibly
put in an appearance, Adam lingered in his aunt's cheerful-looking kitchen until after the
clock had struck eleven: then he very reluctantly got up, and, bidding Mrs. Tucker and Sammy
good-night, betook himself to the mill-house, in which, with regard to his greater safety,
a bed had been made up for him.

Adam felt that, court it as he might, sleep was very far from his eyes, and that, compared
to his own society and the torment of thought which harassed and racked him each time he found
himself alone, even Sammy Tucker's company was a boon to be grateful for. There were times
during these hours of dreary loneliness when Adam's whole nature seemed submerged by the billows
of love--cruel waves, which would toss him hither and thither, making sport of his hapless
condition, to strand him at length on the quicksands of fear, where a thousand terrible alarms
would seize him and fill him with dread as to how these disasters might end. What would become
of him? how would it fare with Eve and himself? where could they go? what could they do?--questions
ever swallowed up by the constantly-recurring, all-important bewilderment as to what could
possibly have brought about this dire disaster.

On this night Adam's thoughts were more than usually engrossed by Eve: her form seemed constantly
before him, distracting him with images as tempting and unsatisfying as is the desert spring
with which desire mocks the thirst of the fainting traveller. At length that relaxation of
strength which in sterner natures takes the place of tears subdued Adam, a softened feeling
crept over him, and, shifting his position so that he might rest his arms against the corn-bin
near, a deep-drawn sigh escaped him.

"Hist!"

Adam started at the sound, and without moving turned his head and looked rapidly about him.
Nothing was to be seen: with the exception of the small radius round the lantern all was darkness
and gloom.

"Hist!" was repeated, and this time there was no more doubt but that the sound came from some
one close by.

A clammy sweat stood on Adam's forehead, his tongue felt dry and so powerless that it needed
an effort to force it to move. "Who's there?" he said.

"'Tis me--Jonathan."

Adam caught up the lantern, and, turning it in the direction whence the voice came, found to
his relief that the rays fell upon Jonathan's face. "Odds rot it, lad!" he exclaimed, "but
you've gived me a turn! How the deuce did you get in here? and why didn't ye come inside to
the house over there?"

"I've a bin scrooged down 'tween these 'ere sacks for ever so long," said Jonathan, trying
to stretch out his cramped limbs: "I reckon I've had a bit o' a nap too, for the time ha'n't
a took long in goin', and when I fust come 'twasn't altogether dark."

"'Tis close on the stroke o' twelve now," said Adam. "But come, what news, eh? Have ye got
hold o' anything yet? Are they devils off for good? Is that what you've come to tell me?"

"Iss, they's off this time, I fancy," said Jonathan; "but 'twasn't that broffed me, though
I should ha' comed to tell 'ee o' that too."

"No? What is it then?" demanded Adam impatiently, turning the light so that he could get a
better command of Jonathan's face.

"'Twas 'cos o' this," said Jonathan, his voice dropping to a whisper, so that, though the words
were trembling on his lips, his agitation and excitement almost prevented their utterance:
"I've found it out--all of it--who blowed the gaff 'pon us."

Adam started forward: his face all but touched Jonathan's, and an expression of terrible eagerness
came into his eyes.

"'Twas she!" hissed Jonathan--"she--her from London--Eve;" but before the name was well uttered
Adam had thrown himself upon him and was grasping at his throat as if to throttle him, while
a volley of imprecations poured from his mouth, denouncing the base lie which Jonathan had
dared to utter. A moment more, and this fit of impotent rage over, he flung him violently off,
and stood for a moment trying to bring back his senses; but the succession of circumstances
had been too much for him: his head swam round, his knees shook under him, and he had to grasp
hold of a beam near to steady himself.

"What for do 'ee sarve me like that, then?" muttered Jonathan. "I ain't a-tellin' 'ee no more
than I've a-heerd, and what's the truth. Her name's all over the place," he went on, forgetful
of the recent outburst and warming with his narration. "Her's a reg'lar bad wan; her's a-carr'ed
on with a sodger-chap so well as with Jerrem; her's a--"

"By the living Lord, if you speak another word I'll be your death!" exclaimed Adam.

"Wa-al, and so you may," exclaimed Jonathan doggedly, "if so be you'll lave me bide 'til I'se
seed the end o' she. Why, what do 'ee mane, then?" he cried, a sudden suspicion throwing a
light on Adam's storm of indignation. "Her bain't nawthin' to you--her's Jerrem's maid: her
bain't your maid? Why," he added, finding that Adam didn't speak, "'twas through the letter
I carr'ed from he that her'd got it to blab about. I wishes my hand had bin struck off"--and
he dashed it violently against the wooden bin--"afore I'd touched his letter or his money."

"What letter?" gasped Adam.

"Wa-al, I knaws you said I warn't to take neither wan; but Jerrem he coaxes and persuades,
and says you ain't to knaw nawthin' about it, and 'tain't nawthin' in it, only 'cos he'd a
got a letter fra' she to Guernsey, and this was t' answer; and then I knawed, 'cos I seed em,
that they was sweetheartin' and that, and--"

"Did you give her that letter?" said Adam; and the sound of his voice was so strange that Jonathan
shrank back and cowered close to the wall.

"Iss, I did," he faltered: "leastwise, I gived un to Joan, but t'other wan had the radin' in it."

There was a pause, during which Adam stood stunned, feeling that everything was crumbling and
giving way beneath him--that he had no longer anything to live for, anything to hope, anything
to fear. As, one after another, each former bare suggestion of artifice now passed before him
clothed in the raiment of certain deceit, he made a desperate clutch at the most improbable,
in the wild hope that one falsehood at least might afford him some ray of light, however feeble,
to dispel the horrors of this terrible darkness.

"And after she'd got the letter," he said, "what--what about the rest?"

"Why 'twas this way," cried Jonathan, his eyes rekindling in his eagerness to tell the story:
"somebody dropped a bit of paper into the rendevoos winder, with writin' 'pon it to say when
and where they'd find the Lottery to. Who 'twas did it none knaws for sartain, but the talk's
got abroad 'twas a sergeant there, 'cos he'd a bin braggin' aforehand that he'd got a watch-sale
and that o' her'n'."

"Her'n?" echoed Adam.

"Iss, o' Eve's. And he's allays a-showin' of it off, he is; and when they axes un questions
he doan't answer, but he dangles the sale afront of 'em and says, 'What d'ee think?' he says;
and now he makes his brag that he shall hab the maid yet, while her man's a-dancin' gallus-high
a top o' Tyburn tree."

The blood rushed up into Adam's face, so that each vein stood a separate cord of swollen, bursting
rage.

"They wasn't a-manin' you, ye knaw," said Jonathan: "'twar Jerrem. Her's played un false, I
reckon. Awh!" and he gave a fiendish chuckle, "but us'll pay her out for't, woan't us, eh?
Awnly you give to me the ticklin' o' her ozel-pipe;" and he made a movement of his bony fingers
that conveyed such a hideous embodiment of his meaning that Adam, overcome by horror, threw
up his arms with a terrible cry to heaven, and falling prone he let the bitterness of death
pass over the love that had so late lain warm at his heart; while Jonathan crouched down, trembling
and awestricken by the sight of emotion which, though he could not comprehend nor account for,
stirred in him the sympathetic uneasiness of a dumb animal. Afraid to move or speak, he remained
watching Adam's bent figure until his shallow brain, incapable of any sustained concentration
of thought, wandered off to other interests, from which he was recalled by a noise, and looking
up he saw that Adam had raised himself and was wiping his face with his handkerchief. Did he
feel so hot, then? No, it must be that he felt cold, for he shivered and his teeth seemed to
chatter as he told Jonathan to stoop down by the side there and hand him up a jar and a glass
that he would find; and this got, Adam poured out some of its contents, and after tossing it
off told Jonathan to take the jar and help himself, for, as nothing could be done until daylight,
they might as well lie down and try and get some sleep. Jonathan's relish for spirit once excited,
he made himself tolerably free of the permission, and before long had helped himself to such
purpose that, stretched in a heavy sleep, unless some one roused him he was not likely to awake
for some hours to come.

Then Adam got up and with cautious movements stole down the ladder, undid the small hatch-door
which opened out on the mill-stream, fastened it after him, and leaping across stood for a
few moments asking himself what he had come out to do. He didn't know, for as yet, in the tumult
of jealousy and revenge, there was no outlet, no gap, by which he might drain off any portion
of that passionate fire which was rapidly destroying and consuming all his softer feelings.
The story which Jonathan had brought of the betrayal to the sergeant, the fellow's boastings
and his possession of the seal Adam treated as an idle tale, its possibility vanquished by
his conviction that Eve could have had no share in it. It was the letter from Jerrem which
was the damnatory proof in Adam's eyes--the proof by which he judged and condemned her; for
had not he himself seen and wondered at Jerrem's anxiety to go to Guernsey, his elation at
finding a letter waiting him, his display of wishing to be seen secretly reading it, and now
his ultimate betrayal of them by sending an answer to it?

As for Jerrem--oh he would deal with him as with a dog, and quickly send him to that fate he
so richly deserved. It was not against Jerrem that the depths of his bitterness welled over:
as the strength of his love, so ran his hate; and this all turned to one direction, and that
direction pointed toward Eve.

He must see her, stand face to face with her, smite her with reproaches, heap upon her curses,
show her how he could trample on her love and fling her back her perjured vows. And then? This
done, what was there left? From Jerrem he could free himself. A word, a blow, and all would
be over: but how with her? True, he could kill the visible Eve with his own hands, but the
Eve who lived in his love, would she not live there still? Ay; and though he flung that body
which could court the gaze of other eyes than his full fathoms deep, the fair image which dwelt
before him would remain present to his vision. So that, do what he would, Eve would live, must
live. Live! Crushing down on that thought came the terrible consequences which might come of
Jonathan's tale being told--a tale so colored with all their bitterest prejudices that it was
certain to be greedily listened to; and in the storm of angry passion it would rouse everything
else would be swallowed up by resentment against Eve's baseness; and the fire once kindled,
what would come of it?

The picture which Adam's heated imagination conjured up turned him hot and cold; an agony of
fear crept over him; his heart sickened and grew faint within him, and the hands which but
a few minutes before had longed to be steeped in her blood now trembled and shook with nervous
dread lest a finger of harm should be laid upon her.

These and a hundred visions more or less wild coursed through Adam's brain as his feet took
their swift way toward Polperro--not keeping along the open road, but taking a path which,
only known to the inhabitants, would bring him down almost in front of his own house.

The night was dark, the sky lowering and cloudy. Not a sound was to be heard, not a soul had
he seen, and already Adam was discussing with himself how best, without making an alarm, he
should awaken Joan and obtain admittance. Usually bars and bolts were unknown, doors were left
unfastened, windows often open; but now all would be securely shut, and he would have to rely
on the possibility of his signal being heard by some one who might chance to be on the watch.

Suddenly a noise fell upon his ear. Surely he heard the sound of footsteps and the hum of voices.
It could never be that the surprise they deemed a possibility had turned out a certainty. Adam
crouched down, and under the shadow of the wall glided silently along until he came opposite
the corner where the house stood. It was as he feared. There was no further doubt. The shutters
were flung back, the door was half open, and round it, easing their tired limbs as best they
might, stood crowded together a dozen men, the portion of a party who had evidently spread
themselves about the place.

Fortunately for Adam, the steps which led up to the wooden orrel or balcony--at that time a
common adornment to the Polperro houses--afforded him a tolerably safe retreat, and, screened
here, he remained a silent watcher, hearing only a confused murmur and seeing nothing save
an occasional movement as one and the other changed posts and passed in and out of the opposite
door. At length a general parley seemed to take place: the men fell into rank and at a slow
pace moved off down the street in the direction of the quay. Adam looked cautiously out. The
door was now closed. Dare he open it? Might he not find that a sentinel had been left behind?
How about the other door? The chances against it were as bad. The only possible way of ingress
was by a shutter in the wall which overlooked the brook and communicated with the hiding-place
in which his father lay secreted. This shutter had been little used since the days of press-gangs.
It was painted in so exact an imitation of the slated house-wall as to defy detection, and
to mark the spot to the initiated eye a root of house-leek projected out below and served to
further screen the opening from view. The contrivance of this shutter-entrance was well known
to Adam, and the mode of reaching it familiar to him: therefore if he could but elude observation
he was certain of success.

The plan once decided on, he began putting it into execution, and although it seemed half a
lifetime to him, but very few minutes had elapsed before he had crossed the road, ran waist-high
into the brook, scaled the wall and scrambled down almost on top of old Zebedee, who, stupefied
by continual drink, sleep and this constant confinement, took the surprise in a wonderfully
calm manner.

"Hist, father! 'tis only me--Adam."

"A' right! a' right!" stammered Zebedee, too dazed to take in the whole matter at once. "What
is it, lad, eh? They darned galoots ha'n't a tracked 'ee, have 'em? By the hooky! but they'm
givin' 't us hot and strong this time, Adam: they was trampin' 'bout inside here a minit agone,
tryin' to keep our sperrits up by a-rattlin' the bilboes in our ears. Why, however did 'ee
dodge 'em, eh? What's the manin' o' it all?"

"I thought they was gone," said Adam, "so I came down to see how you were all getting on here."

"Iss, iss, sure. Wa-al, all right, I s'pose, but I ha'n't a bin let outside much: Joan won't
have it, ye knaw. Poor Joan!" he sighed, "her's terrible moody-hearted 'bout 't all; and so's
Eve too. I never see'd maids take on as they'm doin'; but there! I reckon 'twill soon be put
a end to now."

"How so?" said Adam.

"Wa-al, you mustn't knaw, down below, more than you'm tawld," said the old man with a significant
wink and a jerk of his head, "but Jerrem he let me into it this ebenin' when he rinned up to
see me for a bit. Seems one o' they sodger-chaps is carr'in' on with Eve, and Jerrem's settin'
her on to rig un up so that her'll get un not to see what 'tain't maned for un to look at."

"Well?" said Adam.

"Iss," said Zebedee, "but will it be well? That's what I keeps axin' of un. He's cock sure,
sartain, that they can manage it all. He's sick, he says, o' all this skulkin', and he's blamed
if he'll go on standin' it, neither."

"Oh!" hissed Adam, "he's sick of it, is he?" and in the effort he made to subdue his voice
the veins in his face rose up to be purple cords. "He'd nothing to do with bringing it on us
all? it's no fault of his that the place is turned into a hell and we hunted down like a pack
o' dogs?"

"Awh, well, I dawn't knaw nuffin 'bout that," said old Zebedee, huffily. "How so be if 'tis
so, when he's got clane off 'twill be all right agen."

"All right?" thundered Adam--"how all right? Right that he should get off and we be left here?--that
he shouldn't swing, but we must stay to suffer?"

"Awh, come, come, come!" said the old man with the testy impatience of one ready to argue,
but incapable of reasoning. "'Tain't no talk o' swingin', now: that was a bit o' brag on the
boy's part: he's so eager to save his neck as you or me either. Awnly Jonathan's bin here and
tawld up summat that makes un want to be off to wance, for he says, what us all knaws, without
he's minded to it you can't slip a knot round Jonathan's clapper; and 'tain't that Jerrem's
afeared o' his tongue, awnly for the keepin' up o' pace and quietness he fancies 'twould be
better for un to make hisself scarce for a bit."

Adam's whole body quivered as a spasm of rage ran through him; and Zebedee, noting the trembling
movement of his hands, conveyed his impression of the cause by bestowing a glance, accompanied
with a pantomimic bend of his elbow, in the direction of a certain stone bottle which stood
in the corner.

"Did Jonathan tell you what word 'twas he'd brought?" Adam managed to say.

"Noa: I never cast eyes on un. He warn't here 'bove a foo minits 'fore he slipped away, none
of 'em knaws where or how. He was warned not to go anighst you," he added after a moment's
pause; "so I reckon you knaws no more of un than us does."

"And Eve and Joan? were they let into the secret?" asked Adam; and the sound of his harsh voice
grated even on Zebedee's dulled ears.

"Iss, I reckon," he said, half turning, "'cos Eve's got to do the trick: her's to bamfoozle
the sodger.--Odds rot it, lad!" he cried, startled at the expression which leaped into Adam's
haggard face, "what's come to 'ee that you must turn round 'pon us like that? Is it the maid
you's got a spite agen? Lors! but 'tis a poor stomach you's got to'rds her if you'm angered
by such a bit o' philanderin' as I've tawld 'ee of. What d'ee mane, then?" he added, his temper
rising at such unwarrantable inconsistency. "I've knawed as honest women as ever her is that's
a done that, and more too, for to get their men safe off and out o' way--iss, and wasn't thought
none the wus of, neither. You'm growed mighty fancikul all to wance 'bout what us is to do
and what us dussn't think o'. I'm sick o' such talk. 'Taint nawthin' else fra' mornin' to night
but Adam this and Adam that. I'm darned if 'tis to be wondered at if the maid plays 'ee false:
by gosh! I'd do the trick, if I was she, 'fore I'd put up with such fantads from you or either
man like 'ee. So there!"

Adam did not answer, and old Zebedee, interpreting the silence into an admission of the force
of his arguments, forbore to press the advantage and generously started a fresh topic. "They's
a tawld 'ee, I reckon, 'bout the bill they's a posted up, right afore the winder, by the Three
Pilchards," he said. "Iss," he added, not waiting for an answer, "the king's pardon and wan
hunderd pound to be who'll discover to 'em the man who 'twas fired the fatal shot. Wan hunderd
pound!" he sneered. "That's a fat lot, surely; and as for t' king's pardon, why 'twudn't lave
un braithin'-time to spend it in--not if he war left here, 'twudn't. No fear! Us ain't so bad
off yet that either wan in Polperro 'ud stink their fingers wi' blid-money. Lord save un! sich
a man 'ud fetch up the divil hisself to see un pitched head foremost down to bottom o' say,
which 'ud be the end I'd vote for un, and see it was carr'd out too--iss, tho' his bones bore
my own flesh and blid 'pon 'em, I wud;" and in his anger the old man's rugged face grew distorted
with emotion.

But Adam neither spoke nor made comment on his words. His eyes were fixed on mid-air, his nostrils
worked, his mouth quivered. Within him a legion of devils seemed to have broken loose, and,
sensible of the mastery they were gaining over him, he leaped up and with the wild despair
of one who catches at a straw to save him from destruction, it came upon him to rush down and
look once more into the face of her whom he had found so fair and proved so false.

"What is it you'm goin' to do, then?" said Zebedee, seeing that Adam had stooped down and was
raising the panel by which exit was effected.

"Goin' to see if the coast's clear," said Adam.

"Better bide where you be," urged Zebedee. "Joan or they's sure to rin up so soon as 'tis all
safe."

But Adam paid no heed: muttering something about knowing what he was about, he slipped up the
partition and crept under, cautiously ascertained that the outer room was empty, and then,
crossing the passage, stole down the stairs.

The door which led into the room was shut, but through a convenient chink Adam could take a
survey of those within. Already his better self had begun to struggle in his ear, already the
whisper which desire was prompting asked what if Eve stood there alone and--But no, his glance
had taken in the whole: quick as the lightning's flash the details of that scene were given
to Adam's gaze--Eve, bent forward, standing beside the door, over whose hatch a stranger's
face was thrust, while Joan, close to the spot where Jerrem still lay hid, clasped her two
hands as if to stay the breath which longed to cry, "He's free!"... The blow dealt, the firebrand
flung, each evil passion quickened into life, filled with jealousy and mad revenge, Adam turned
swiftly round and backward sped his way.

"They'm marched off, ain't 'em?" said old Zebedee as, Adam having given the signal, he drew
the panel of the door aside. "I've a bin listenin' to their trampin' past.--Why, what's the
time, lad, eh?--must be close on break o' day, ain't it?"

"Just about," said Adam, pushing back the shutter so that he might look out and see that no
one stood near enough to overlook his descent.

"Why, you bain't goin' agen, be 'ee?" said Zebedee in amazement. "Why, what for be 'ee hikin'
off like this, then--eh, lad?--Lord save us, he's gone!" he exclaimed as Adam, swinging himself
by a dexterous twist on to the first ledge, let the shutter close behind him. "Wa-al, I'm blamed
if this ain't a rum start! Summat gone wrong with un now. I'll wager he's a bin tiched up in
the bunt somehows, for a guinea; and if so be, 'tis with wan o' they. They'm all sixes and
sebens down below; so I'll lave 'em bide a bit, and hab a tot o' liquor and lie down for a
spell. Lord send 'em to knaw the vally o' pace and quietness! But 'tis wan and all the same--

      Friends and faws,
      To battle they gaws;
    And what they all fights about
      Nawbody knaws."

It was broad daylight when Joan, having once before failed to make her uncle hear, gave such
a vigorous rap that, starting up, the old man cried, "Ay, ay, mate!" and with all speed unfastened
the door.

Joan crept in and some conversation ensued, in the midst of which, as the recollection of the
events just past occurred to his mind, Zebedee asked, "What was up with Adam?"

"With Adam?" echoed Joan.

"Iss: what made un start off like he did?"

Joan looked for a minute, then she lifted the stone bottle and shook its contents. "Why, whatever
be 'ee tellin' up?" she said.

"Tellin' up? Why, you seed un down below, didn't 'ee? Iss you did now."

Completely puzzled what to think, Joan shook her head.

"Lor' ha' massy! don't never tell me he didn't shaw hisself. Why, the sodgers was barely out
o' doors 'fore he comes tumblin' in to shutter there, and after a bit he says, 'I'll just step
down below,' he says, and out he goes; and in a quarter less no time back he comes tappin'
agen, and when I drawed open for un by he pushes, and 'fore I could say 'Knife' he was out
and clane off."

"You haven't a bin dreamin' of it, have 'ee?" said Joan, her face growing pale with apprehension.

"Naw, 'tis gospel truth, every ward. I've a had a toothful of liquor since, and a bit o' caulk,
but not a drap more."

"Jerrem's comin' up into t'other room," said Joan, not wishing to betray all the alarm she
felt: "will 'ee go into un there the whiles I rins down and says a word to Eve?"

"Iss," said the old man, "and I'll freshen mysen up a bit with a dash o' cold watter: happen
I may bring some more o' it to my mind then."

But, his ablutions over and the whole family assembled, Zebedee could throw no more light on
the subject, the recital of which caused so much anxiety that Joan, yielding to Eve's entreaties,
decided to set off with all speed for Crumplehorne.

"Mother, Adam's all right? ain't he here still, and safe?" cried Joan, bursting into the kitchen
where Mrs. Tucker, only just risen, was occupied with her house-duties.

"Iss, plaise the Lord, and, so far as I knaws of, he is," replied Mrs. Tucker, greatly startled
by Joan's unexpected appearance. "Why, what do 'ee mane, child, eh? But there!" she added starting
up, "us'll make sure to wance and knaw whether 'tis lies or truth we'm tellin'.--Here, Sammy,
off ever so quick as legs can carry 'ee, and climber up and fetch Adam back with 'ee."

Sammy started off, and Joan proceeded to communicate the cause of her uneasiness.

"Awh, my dear, is that all?" exclaimed Mrs. Tucker, at once pronouncing sentence on poor old
Zebedee's known failing: "then my mind's made easy agen. There's too much elbow-crookin' 'bout
that story for me to set any hold by it."

"Do 'ee think so?" said Joan, ready to catch at any straw of hope.

"Why, iss; and for this reason too. I--"

But at this moment Sammy appeared, and, without waiting for him to speak, the two women uttered
a cry as they saw in his face a confirmation of their fears. "Iss, 'tis every ward true; he's
a gone shure 'nuf," exclaimed Sammy; "but by his own accord, I reckon, 'cos there ain't no
signs o' nothin' bein' open 'ceptin 'tis the hatch over by t' mill-wheel."

"Awh, mother," cried Joan, "whatever can be the manin' of it? My poor heart's a sinkin' down
lower than iver. Oh Lord! if they should ha' cotched un, anyways!"

"Now, doan't 'ee take on like that, Joan," said Mrs. Tucker. "'Tis like temptin' o' Providence
to do such like. I'll be bound for't he's safe home alongst afore now: he ain't like wan to
act wild and go steppin' into danger wi' both his eyes wide open."

The possibility suggested, and Joan was off again, back on her way to Polperro, too impatient
to wait while her mother put on her bonnet to accompany her.

At the door stood Eve, breathless expectation betraying itself in her every look and gesture.
Joan shook her head, while Eve's finger, quick laid upon her lip, warned her to be cautious.

"They're back," she muttered as Joan came up close: "they've just marched past and gone down
to the quay."

"What for?" cried Joan.

"I don't know. Run and see, Joan: everybody's flocking that way."

Joan ran down the street, and took her place among a mob of people watching with eager interest
the movements of a soldier who, with much unnecessary parade and delay, was taking down the
bill of reward posted outside the Three Pilchards. A visible anticipation of the effect about
to be produced stirred the small red-coated company, and they wheeled round so as to take note
of any sudden emotion produced by the surprise they felt sure awaited the assembly.

"Whatever is it, eh?" asked Joan, trying to catch a better sight of what was going on.

"They'm stickin' up a noo reward, 't seems," said an old man close by. "'Tain't no--"

But the swaying back of the crowd carried Joan with it. A surge forward, and then on her ear
fell a shrill cry, and as the name of Jerrem Christmas started from each mouth a hundred eyes
seemed turned upon her. For a moment the girl stood dazed, staring around like some wild animal
at bay: then, flinging out her arms, she forced those near her aside, and rushing forward to
the front made a desperate clutch at the soldier. "Speak! tell me! what's writ there?" she cried.

"Writ there?" said the man, startled by the scared face that was turned up to him. "Why, the
warrant to seize for murder Jerrem Christmas, living or dead, on the king's evidence of Adam
Pascal."

And the air was rent by a cry of unutterable woe, caught up by each voice around, and coming
back in echoes from far and near long after Joan lay a senseless heap on the stones upon which
she had fallen.

                          The Author of "Dorothy Fox."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

SEVEN WEEKS A MISSIONARY.

The sights of Honolulu had not lost their novelty--the tropical foliage of palm, banana, bread-fruit,
monkey-pod and algaroba trees; the dark-skinned, brightly-clad natives with flowers on their
heads, who walked with bare feet and stately tread along the shady sidewalks or tore through
the streets on horseback; the fine stone or wooden residences with wide cool verandas, or humbler
native huts surrounded by walls of coral-rock instead of fences; the deep indigo-blue ocean
on one hand and the rich green mountains on the other, dripping with moisture and alternately
dark and bright with the gloom of clouds and the glory of rainbows, still wore for me their
original freshness and interest--when I received an urgent request to come to Waialua, a little
village on the other side of the island. My host, to whom the note was addressed, explained
to me that there was a mission-school at that place, a seminary for native girls. It was conducted
by Miss G----, the daughter of one of the missionaries who first came to the Hawaiian Islands
fifty years before. She had been sent to this country to be educated, like most of the children
of the early missionaries, and had returned to devote herself to the mental, moral and physical
welfare of the native girls--a task which she was now accomplishing with all the fervor, devotion
and self-sacrifice of a Mary Lyon.

At this juncture she had forty-five girls, from six to eighteen, under her care, and but one
assistant. The English teacher who had assisted her for several years had lately married, and
the place was still vacant. She wrote to my host, saying that she had heard there was a teacher
from California at his house, and begging me, through him, to come and help her a few weeks.
I signified my willingness to go, and in a few days Miss G----, accompanied by a native girl,
came on horseback to meet me and conduct me to Waialua. A gentleman of Honolulu, his sister
and a native woman called Maria, who were going to Waialua and beyond, joined us, so that our
party consisted of six. We were variously mounted, on horses of different appearance and disposition,
and carried our luggage and lunch in saddle-bags strapped on behind. Maria's outfit especially
interested me. It was the usual costume for native women, and consisted of a long flowing black
garment called a holoku, gathered into a yoke at the shoulders and falling unconfined to her
bare feet. Around her neck she wore a bright red silk handkerchief, and on her head a straw
hat ornamented with a lei, or wreath of fresh, fragrant flowers, orange or jasmine. Men, women
and children wear these wreaths, either on their heads or around their necks. Sometimes they
consist of the bright yellow ilimu-flowers or brilliant scarlet pomegranate-blossoms strung
on a fibre of the banana-stalk--sometimes they are woven of ferns or of a fragrant wild vine
called maile. Maria was seated astride on a wiry little black horse, and instead of slipping
her bare feet into the stirrups she clasped the irons with her toes. Besides her long, flowing
black dress she wore a width of bright red-flowered damask tied around her waist, caught into
the stirrup on either side and flowing a yard or two behind.

Waialua, our destination, was about a third of the way around the island, but the road, instead
of following the sea-coast all the way, took a short cut across an inland plateau, so that
the distance was but twenty-seven miles. We started about one o'clock in the afternoon, the
hour when the streets are least frequented, and rode past the shops and stores shaded with
awnings, past the bazaars where sea-shells and white and pink coral are offered for sale, through
the fish-market where shellfish and hideous-looking squid and bright fish, colored like rainbows
or the gayest tropical parrots, lay on little tables or floated in tanks of sea-water. Men
with bundles of green grass or hay for sale made way for us as we passed, and the fat, short-legged
dogs scattered right and left.

Although it was December, the air was warm and balmy, tree and fruit and flower were in the
glory of endless summer, and the ladies seated on verandas or swinging in hammocks wore white
dresses. For one who dreads harsh, cold winters the climate of Honolulu is perfection. At the
end of King street we crossed a long bridge over the river, which at that point widens out
into a marsh bordered by reeds and rushes. Here we saw a number of native canoes resting on
poles above the water. They were about twenty feet long and quite narrow, being hollowed out
of tree-trunks. An outrigger attached to one side serves to balance them in the water. A fine
smooth road built on an embankment of stone and earth leads across this marsh to a strip of
higher land near the sea where the prison buildings stand. They are of gray stone, with miniature
towers, surrounded by a wall capped with stone, the whole surmounted by a tower from which
waves the Hawaiian flag. In front is a smooth lawn where grow century-plants and ornamental
shrubs, including the India-rubber tree. It is much finer than the so-called palace of the
king, a many-roomed, one-story wooden cottage in the centre of the city, surrounded by a large
grassy yard enclosed by a high wall.

The land beyond the marshes is planted in taro and irrigated by a network of streams. Taro
is the principal article of food used by the natives: the root, which looks somewhat like a
gray sweet potato, is made into a paste called poi, and the tops are eaten as greens. The plant
grows about two feet high, and has an arrow-shaped leaf larger than one's hand. Like rice,
it grows in shallow pools of water, and a patch of it looks like an inundated garden. As we
passed along we saw half-clad natives standing knee-deep in mud and water pulling the full-grown
plants or putting in young ones. Reaching higher ground, we cantered along a hard, smooth road
bordered with short green grass. On either side were dwellings of wood surrounded by broad-leafed
banana trees, with here and there a little shop for the sale of fruit. This is a suburb of
Honolulu and is called Kupalama. We met a number of natives on horseback going into town, the
men dressed in shirts and trousers of blue or white cotton cloth, the women wearing the long
loose gowns I have described.

At last we reached the open country, and started fairly on our long ride. On our left was the
ocean with "league-long rollers thundering on the reef:" on our right, a few miles away, was
a line of mountains, divided into numerous spurs and peaks by deep valleys richly clothed in
tropical verdure. The country about us was uncultivated and generally open, but here and there
were straggling lines of low stone walls overgrown with a wild vine resembling our morning-glory,
the masses of green leaves starred with large pink flowers. The algaroba, a graceful tree resembling
the elm, grew along the roadside, generally about fifteen feet high. In Honolulu, where they
are watered and cared for, these trees attain a height of thirty or forty feet, sending forth
long swaying branches in every direction and forming beautiful shade trees. Now and then we
crossed water-courses, where the banks were carpeted with short green grass and bordered with
acacia-bushes covered with feathery leaves and a profusion of yellow ball-shaped flowers that
perfumed the air with their fragrance. The view up and down these winding flower-bordered streams
was lovely. We rode for miles over this monotonous country, gradually rising to higher ground.
Suddenly, almost at our very feet, a little bowl-shaped valley about half a mile in circumference
opened to view. The upper rim all around was covered with smooth green grass, and the sides
were hidden by the foliage of dark-green mango trees, light-green kukui, bread-fruit and banana.
Coffee had formerly been cultivated here, and a few bushes still grew wild, bearing fragrant
white flowers or bright red berries. Through the bottom of the valley ran a little stream,
and on its banks were three or four grass huts beneath tufts of tall cocoanut palms. Several
scantily-clad children rolled about on the ground, and in the shade of a tamarind tree an old
gray-headed man was pounding taro-root. The gray mass lay before him on a flat stone, and he
pounded it with a stone pestle, then dipped his hands into a calabash of water and kneaded
it. A woman was bathing in the stream, and another stood at the door of one of the huts holding
her child on her hip.

We passed through three other deep valleys like this, and in every case they opened suddenly
to view--hidden nests of tropical foliage and color. The natives were seated in circles under
the trees eating poi, or wading in the stream looking for fish, or lounging on the grass near
their huts as though life were one long holiday.

Now we entered a vast sunburnt plain overgrown with huge thorny cactus twelve or fifteen feet
high. Without shade or water or verdure it stretched before us to distant table-lands, upholding
mountains whose peaks were veiled in cloud. The solitude of the plain was rendered more impressive
by the absence of wild creatures of any kind: there were no birds nor insects nor ground-squirrels
nor snakes. The cactus generally grew in clumps, but sometimes it formed a green prickly wall
on either side of the road, between which we had to pass as between the bayonets of sentinels.
Wherever the road widened out we clattered along, six abreast, at full speed. Maria, the native
woman, presented a picturesque appearance with her black dress and long flowing streamers of
bright red. She was an elderly woman--perhaps fifty years old--but as active as a young girl,
and a good rider. She had an unfailing fund of good-humor, and talked and laughed a great deal.
My other companions, with the exception of the native girl, were children of early missionaries,
and enlivened the journey by many interesting incidents of island life. At last we crossed
the cactus desert, ascended an eminence, and then sank into a valley grand and deep, shut in
by walls carved in fantastic shape by the action of water. Our road was a narrow pathway, paved
with stone, that wound down the face of the cliff. The natives call this place Ki-pa-pa, which
signifies "paved way."

As we were making the descent on one side we saw a party of natives on horseback winding down
on the opposite. First rode three men, single file, with children perched in front of them,
then three or four women in black or gay-colored holokus, then a boy who led two pack-mules
laden with large baskets. All wore wreaths of ferns or flowers. When we met they greeted us
with a hearty "Aloha!" ("Love to you!"), and in reply to a question in Hawaiian said that they
were going to Honolulu with fresh fish, bananas and oranges.

We climbed the rocky pathway rising out of the valley, and found ourselves on the high table-land
toward which we had shaped our course. It was smooth as a floor and covered with short rich
grass. Instead of a broad road there were about twenty parallel paths stretching on before
us as far as we could see, furrowed by the feet of horses and pack-mules. Miles away on either
side was a line of lofty mountains whose serrated outlines were sharply defined against the
evening sky. Darkness overtook us on this plateau, and the rest of the journey is a confused
memory of steep ravines down whose sides we cautiously made our way, torrents of foaming water
which we forded, expanses of dark plain, and at last the murmur of the ocean on the reef. After
reaching sea-level again we passed between acres and acres of taro-patches where the water
mirrored the large bright stars and the arrow-shaped leaves cast sharp-pointed shadows. We
rode through the quiet little village of Waialua, sleeping beneath the shade of giant pride-of-India
and kukui trees, without meeting any one, and forded the Waialua River just where it flows
over silver sands into the sea. As we paused to let our horses drink I looked up at the cluster
of cocoanut palms that grew upon the bank, and noticed how distinctly each feathery frond was
pencilled against the sky, then down upon the placid river and out upon the gently murmuring
sea, and thought that I had never gazed upon a more peaceful scene. Little did I think that
it would soon be associated with danger and dismay. Beyond the river were two or three native
huts thatched with grass, and a little white cottage, the summer home of Princess Lydia, the
king's sister. Passing these, we rode over a smooth green lawn glittering with large bright
dewdrops, and dismounted in front of the seminary-gate. The large whitewashed brick house,
two stories and a half high, with wide verandas around three sides, looks toward the sea. In
front of it is a garden filled with flowers and vines and shrubbery, the pride and care of
the school-girls. There are oleander trees with rose-colored blossoms, pomegranate trees whose
flowers glow amid the dark-green foliage like coals of fire, and orange and lime trees covered
with fragrant white flowers, which the girls string and wear around their necks. Besides roses,
heliotrope, geraniums, sweet-pea, nasturtium and other familiar flowers, there are fragrant
Japanese lilies, and also plants and shrubs from the Micronesian Islands. On one side is a
grove of tamarind and kukui-nut trees, mingled with tall cocoanut palms, which stretches to
the deep, still river, a few rods away: on the other is the school-house, a two-story frame,
painted white, shaded by tall pride-of-India trees and backed by a field of corn. My room opened
on a veranda shaded with kukui trees, and as the "coo-coo-ee coo-coo-ee" of the doves in the
branches came to my ears I thought that the trees had received their name from the notes of
the doves, but afterward learnt that kukui in the Hawaiian language meant "light," and that
the nuts, being full of oil, were strung on bamboo poles by the natives and used as torches.

The morning after my arrival I saw the girls at breakfast, and found them of all shades of
complexion from deep chocolate-brown to white. Their glossy black hair, redolent of cocoanut
oil, was ornamented with fresh flowers, and their bright black eyes danced with fun or languished
with sullen scorn. The younger ones were bright and happy in their expression, but the older
ones seemed already to realize the curse that rests upon their decaying race, and to move with
melancholy languor, as if brooding over it in stifled rebellion or resigned apathy. Some would
be called beautiful anywhere: they were graceful in form, had fine regular features and lovely,
expressive eyes; others were attractive only on account of their animation; while one comical
little negro girl, who had somehow got mixed with the Malay race, was as ugly as a Hottentot,
and a veritable imp of darkness, as I afterward learned, so far as mischief was concerned.
The girls were dressed in calico, and wore no shoes or stockings. When they had eaten their
beef and poi, and we had finished our breakfast, each girl got her Hawaiian Testament and read
a verse: then Miss G----, the principal, offered prayer in the same language. When this was
over the routine work of the day began. Some of the older girls remained in the dining-room
to put away the food, wash the dishes and sweep the floor; one went to the kitchen to wash
the pots and pans; and the younger ones dispersed to various tasks--to sweep and dust the parlor,
the sitting-room or the school-room, to gather up the litter of leaves and branches from the
yard and garden-paths, or to put the teachers' rooms in order. The second floor and attic,
both filled with single beds covered with mosquito-netting, were the girls' dormitories. Each
girl was expected to make her own bed and hang up her clothes or put them away in her trunk.
A luna, or overseer, in each dormitory superintended this work, and reported any negligence
on the part of a girl to one of the teachers.

Miss G---- was the life and soul of the institution--principal and housekeeper and accountant,
all in one. She had a faithful and devoted assistant in Miss P----, a young woman of twenty-two,
the daughter of a missionary then living in Honolulu. My duties were to teach classes in English
in the forenoon and to oversee the sewing and some departments of housekeeping in the afternoon.
Miss P---- had the smaller children, Miss G---- taught the larger ones in Hawaiian and gave
music-lessons.

The routine of the school-room from nine to twelve in the forenoon and from one till four in
the afternoon was that of any ordinary school, except that the girls who prepared the meals
were excused earlier than the others. One day in the week was devoted to washing and ironing
down on the river-bank and in the shade of the tamarind trees.

The girls had to be taught many things besides the lessons in their books. At home they slept
on mats on the floor, ate poi out of calabashes with their fingers and wore only the holoku.
Here they were required to eat at table with knife and fork and spoon, to sleep in beds and
to adopt the manners and customs of civilization. Now and then, as a special privilege, they
asked to be allowed to eat "native fashion," and great was their rejoicing and merrymaking
as they sat, crowned with flowers, on the veranda-floor and ate poi and raw fish with their
fingers, and talked Hawaiian. They were required to talk English usually until the four-o'clock
bell sounded in the afternoon. From that until supper-time they were allowed to talk native,
and their tongues ran fast.

On Wednesday afternoons the girls went to bathe in the river, and on Saturday afternoons to
bathe in the sea. It usually fell to my lot to accompany them. The river, back of the house
a few rods, had steep banks ten or fifteen feet high and a deep, still current. The girls would
start to run as soon as they left the house, race with each other all the way and leap from
the bank into the river below. Presently their heads would appear above water, and, laughing
and blowing and shaking the drops from their brown faces, they would swim across the river.
The older girls could dive and swim under water for some distance. They had learned to swim
as soon as they had learned to walk. They sometimes brought up fish in their hands, and one
girl told me that her father could dive and bring up a fish in each hand and one in his mouth.
The little silver-fish caught in their dress-skirts they ate raw. The girls were always glad
when the time came to go swimming in the sea, for they were very fond of a green moss which
grew on the reef, and the whole crowd would sit on rocks picking and eating it while the spray
dashed over them.

Waialua means "the meeting of the waters," or, literally, "two waters," and the place is named
from the perpetual flow and counterflow of the river and the ocean tide. The river pours into
the sea, the sea at high tide surges up the river, beating back its waters, and the foam and
spray of the contending floods are dashed high into the air, bedewing the cluster of cocoanut
palms that stand on the bank above watching this perpetual conflict. In calm weather and at
low tide there is a truce between the waters, and the river flows calmly into the sea; but
immediately after a storm, when the river is flooded with rains from the mountains and the
sea hurls itself upon the reef with a shock and a roar, then the antagonism between the meeting
waters is at its height and the clash and uproar of their fury are great.

Sometimes we went on picnic excursions to places in the neighborhood--to the beach of Waiamea,
a mile or two distant, where thousands of pretty shells lay strewn upon the sand and branches
of white coral could be had for the picking up, or to the orange-groves and indigo-thickets
on the mountain-sides, where large sweet oranges ripened, coming back wreathed with ferns and
the fragrant vine maile.

But we had plenty of oranges without going after them. For half a dollar we could buy a hundred
large fine oranges from the natives, who brought them to the door, and we usually kept a tin
washing-tub full of the delicious fruit on hand. A real (twelve and a half cents) would buy
a bunch of bananas so heavy that it took two of us to lift it to the hook in the veranda-ceiling,
and limes and small Chinese oranges grew plentifully in the front yard. Of cocoanuts and tamarinds
we made no account, they were so common. Guavas grew wild on bushes in the neighborhood, and
made delicious pies. For vegetables we had taro, sweet potatoes and something that tasted just
like summer squash, but which grew in thick, pulpy clusters on a tree. The taro was brought
to us just as it was pulled, roots and nodding green tops, and of the donkey who was laden
with it little showed but his legs and his ears as his master led him up to the gate. Another
old man furnished boiled and pounded taro, which the girls mixed with water and made into poi.
He brought it in large bundles wrapped in broad green banana-leaves and tied with fibres of
the stalk. He had two daughters in the school, and always inquired about their progress in
their studies. One day, happening to look out of the front door, I saw him coming up the garden-walk.
He had nothing on but a shirt and a malo (a strip of cloth) about his loins: the malo was all
that the natives formerly wore. Neither the girls who were weeding their garden, nor the other
teachers who were at work in the parlor, seemed to think that there was anything remarkable
in his appearance. He talked with Miss G---- as usual about the supply of taro for the school,
and inquired how his girls were doing. When he was going away she said, "Uncle, why do you
not wear your clothes when you come to see us? I thought you had laid aside the heathen fashion."
He replied that he had but one suit of clothes, and that he must save them to wear to church,
adding that he was anxious to give his daughters an education, and must economize in some way
in order to pay for their schooling.

The fuel needed for cooking was brought down from the mountains by the native boy who milked
the cows for us and took Calico, Miss G----'s riding horse, to water and to pasture. One day,
when one of the girls had started a fire in the stove, a fragrance like incense diffused itself
through the house. Hastening to the kitchen, I pulled out a half-burned piece of sandal-wood
and put it away in my collection of shells and island curiosities. A few days afterward an
old native man named Ka-hu-kai (Sea-shore), who lived in one of the grass huts near the front
gate, came to sell me a piece of fragrant wood of another kind. He had learned that I attached
a value to such things, and expected to get a good price. He inquired for the wahine haole
(foreign woman), and presented his bit of wood, saying that he would sell it for a dollar.
I declined to purchase. He walked down through the garden and across the lawn, but paused at
the big gate for several minutes, then retraced his steps. Holding out the wood again, he said,
"This is my thought: you may have it for a real." I gave him a real, and he went away satisfied.

Every Sunday we crossed the bridge that spanned Waialua River near the ford, and made our way
to the huge old-fashioned mission-church, which stood in an open field surrounded by prickly
pears six or eight feet high. The thorny prickly pears were stiff and ungraceful, but a delicate
wild vine grew all over them and hung in festoons from the top. While Pai-ku-li, the native
minister, preached a sermon in Hawaiian, I, not understanding a word, looked at the side pews
where the old folks sat, and tried to picture the life they had known in their youth, when
the great Kamehameha reigned. In the pew next to the side door sat Mr. Sea-shore, straight
and solemn as a deacon, and his wife, a fat old woman with a face that looked as if it had
been carved out of knotty mahogany, but which was irradiated with an expression of kindness
and good-nature. She wore a long black holoku, and on her head was perched a little sailor
hat with a blue ribbon round it, which would have been suitable for a girl six or eight years
old, but which looked decidedly comical and out of place on Mrs. Sea-shore. She was barefooted,
as I presently saw. Two or three times during the sermon a red-eyed, dissipated-looking dog
with a baked taro-root in his mouth had come to the door, and seemed about to enter, but Mrs.
Sea-shore, without disturbing the devotions, had kept him back by threatening gestures. But
when the minister began to pray and nearly every head was bowed, the dog came sneaking in.
Mrs. Sea-shore happened to raise her head, and saw him. Drawing back her holoku, she extended
her bare foot and planted a vigorous kick in his ribs, exclaiming at the same time in an explosive
whisper, "Hala palah!" ("Get out!" or "Begone!") The dog went forth howling, and did not return.

A few days later Miss G----'s shoulder was sprained by a fall from her horse, and she sent
for Mrs. Sea-shore. The old woman came and lomi-lomi-ed the shoulder--kneaded it with her hands--until
the pain and stiffness were gone, then extracted the oil from some kukui-nuts by chewing them
and applied it to the sprain. All the time she kept up a chatter in Hawaiian, talking, asking
questions and showing her white teeth in hearty, good-humored laughs. In answer to the questions
I put to her through Miss G----, she told us much about her early life, the superstitions and
taboos that forbade men and women to eat together and imposed many meaningless and foolish
restrictions, and about her children, who had died and gone to Po, the great shadowy land,
where, as she once believed, their spirits had been eaten by the gods. We formed quite a friendship
for each other, and she came often to see me, but would not come into the house any farther
than the veranda or front hall, and there, refusing our offer of a chair, she would sit on
the floor. I spoke of going to see her in return, but she said that her house was not good
enough to receive me, and begged me not to come. Just before I left Waialua she brought a mat
she had woven out of the long leaves of the pandanus or screw pine, a square of tappa, or native
cloth, as large as a sheet, made from the bark of a tree, and the tappa-pounder she had made
it with (a square mallet with different patterns cut on each of the four faces), and gave them
to me. I offered her money in return, but she refused it, saying she had given the things out
of aloha, or love for me. On my return to Honolulu I got the most gorgeous red silk Chinese
handkerchief that could be found in Ah Fong and Ah Chuck's establishment and sent it to her,
and Miss G---- wrote me that she wore it round her neck at church every Sunday.

One of my duties was to go through the dormitories the last thing at night, and see that the
doors were fastened and that the girls had their mosquito-netting properly arranged, and were
not sleeping with their heads under the bedclothes. A heathen superstition, of which they were
half ashamed, still exercised an influence over them, and they were afraid that the spirits
of their dead relatives would come back from Po and haunt them in the night. They would not
confess to this fear, but many of them, ruled by it, covered their heads with the bedclothes
every night. In my rounds, besides clouds of bloodthirsty mosquitos, I frequently saw centipedes
crawling along the floor or wall or up the netting, and sometimes a large tarantula would dart
forth from his hiding-place in some nook or corner. The centipedes were often six or seven
inches long. They were especially numerous during or immediately after rainy weather. Little
gray and green lizards (mo-o) glided about the verandas, but they were harmless. Scorpions
are common in the islands, but we were not troubled with them. They frequent hot, dry places
like sandbanks, and are often found in piles of lumber.

We had fine views of the scenery as we passed to and fro between the main building and the
school-house--the sea, fringed with cocoanut palms; the fertile level plain, dotted with trees,
on which the village stood; and the green mountains, whose tops were generally dark with rainclouds
or brightened with bits of rainbows. It seemed to be always raining in that mysterious mountainous
centre of the islands which human foot has never crossed, but it was usually clear and bright
at sea-level. After an unusually hard rain we could see long, flashing white waterfalls hanging,
like ribbons of silver, down the sides of the green cliffs. From the attic-windows the best
view of the bay could be obtained, and it was my delight to lean out of them like "a blessed
damosel" half an hour at a time, gazing seaward and drinking in the beauty of the scene. Waialua
Bay was shaped like a half moon, the tips of which were distant headlands, and the curve was
the yellow, palm-fringed beach. Into this crescent-shaped reach of water rolled great waves
from the outside ocean, following each other in regular stately order with a front of milk-white
foam and a veil of mist flying backward several yards from the summit. The Hawaiian name for
this place is E-hu-kai (Sea-mist), and it is appropriately named, for the floating veils of
the billows keep the surface of the entire bay dim with mist. Gazing long upon the scene, my
eyes would be dazzled with color--the intense blue of the sky and the water, the bright yellow
of the sand, the dark rich green of the trees, and, looking into the garden below, the flame-scarlet
blossoms of the pomegranates, the rose-pink flowers of the oleanders and the cream-white clusters
of the limes and oranges.

It seemed a land for poetry, for romance, for day-dreaming, and the transition from the attic-window
to the prosaic realities of house and school-room work was like a sudden awakening. I was destined
before leaving the place to have a still more violent awakening to the reality that underlies
appearances. Nature in these beautiful islands is fair and lovely, but deceitful. During long
months of sunny weather the waves gently kiss the shore, the green slopes smile, the mountains
decorate themselves with cloud-wreaths and rainbows; but there comes a dreadful day when the
green and flowery earth yawns in horrid chasms, when Mauna Loa trembles and belches forth torrents
of blood-red lava, when the ocean, receding from the shore, returns in a tidal wave that sweeps
to the top of the palms on the beach and engulfs the people and their homes.

And the human nature here is somewhat similar. The Hawaiians are pleasing in form and feature,
graceful, polite, fond of music and dancing and wreathing themselves with flowers, and possess
withal a deep fund of poetry, which finds expression in their own names, the names they have
bestowed upon waterfalls and valleys and green peaks and sea-cliffs, and in the meles or native
songs which commemorate events of personal interest or national importance. But they too have
their volcanic outbursts, their seasons of fury and destruction. The last public display of
this side of their character was on the occasion of the election of the present king. The supporters
of Queen Emma, the defeated candidate, burst into the court-house, broke the heads of the electors
or threw them bodily out of the windows, and raised a riot in the streets of Honolulu which
was quelled only by the assistance of the crews of the men-of-war then in the harbor--the English
ship Tenedos and the United States vessels Portsmouth and Tuscarora.

I come now to the rebellion which broke forth in Waialua school when I had been there three
weeks. A month or two before one of the school-girls had died after a brief illness. The old
heathen superstition about praying to Death had been revived by the lower class of natives
in the place, who were not friendly to the school, and had been transmitted by them to the
older girls. While yet ignorant of this I had noticed the scowls and dark looks, the reluctant
obedience and manifest distrust, of ten or twelve girls from fifteen to eighteen, the leaders
in the school. The younger girls were affectionate and obedient: they brought flowers from
their gardens and wove wreaths for us; they lomi-lomi-ed our hands and feet when we were sitting
at rest; if they neglected their tasks or broke any of the taboos of the school, it was through
the carelessness of childhood. But it seemed impossible to gain the confidence of the older girls.

One day Miss P----, the assistant teacher, received word that her father was quite sick, and
immediately set out for Honolulu on horseback. Miss G----and I carried on the work of the school
as well as we could. A day or two after Miss P---- left a tropical storm burst upon us. It
seemed as if the very heavens were opened. The rain fell in torrents and the air was filled
with the flying branches of trees. This continued a day and a night. The next day, Sunday,
the rain and wind ceased, but sullen clouds still hung overhead, and there was an oppressive
stillness and languor in the air. Within, there was something of the same atmosphere: the tropical
nature of the girls seemed to be in sympathy with the stormy elements. They were silent and
sullen and brooding. The bridge over Waialua had been washed away, and we could not go to church.
The oppressive day passed and was succeeded by a similar one. The older girls cast dark looks
upon us as they reluctantly went through the round of school- and house-work. At night the
explosion occurred. All the girls were at the usual study-hour in the basement dining-room.
It was Miss G----'s turn to sit with them: I was in the sitting-room directly above. Suddenly
I heard a loud yell, a sound as of scuffling and Miss G----'s quick tones of command. The next
moment I was down stairs. There stood Miss G---- in the middle of the room holding Elizabeth
Aukai, one of the largest and worst girls, by the wrist. The girl's head was bent and her teeth
were buried in Miss G----'s hand. The heathen had burst forth, the volcanic eruption and earthquake
had come. I tried to pull her off, but she was as strong as an ox. Loosening her hold directly
and hurling us off, she poured forth a flood of abuse in Hawaiian. She reviled the teachers
and all the cursed foreigners who were praying her people to death. The Hawaiian language has
no "swear words," but it is particularly rich in abusive and reviling epithets, and these were
freely heaped upon us. She ended her tirade by saying, "You shall not pray us to death, you
wicked, black-hearted foreigners!" and her companions answered with a yell. Then, snatching
up a lamp, they ran up stairs to their sleeping-rooms, screaming and laughing and singing native
songs that had been forbidden in the school, and, taking their shawls and Sunday dresses from
their trunks, they arrayed themselves in all their finery and began dancing an old heathen
dance which is taboo among the better class of natives and only practised in secret by the
more degraded class of natives and half-whites.

It sounded like Bedlam let loose. The little girls, frightened and crying, and a half-white
girl of seventeen, Miss G----'s adopted daughter, remained with us. We put the younger children
to bed in their sleeping-room, which was on the first floor, and held a council together. "One
of us must cross the river and bring Pai-ku-li" (the native minister), said Miss G----. "He
is Elizabeth Aukai's guardian--she is his wife's niece--and he can control her if anybody can,
and break the hold of this superstition on the girls' minds. Nothing that we can say or do
will do any good while they are in this frenzy. Which of us shall go?"

The bridge was washed away; there was no boat; Miss P---- had taken the only horse to go to
Honolulu. Whoever went must ford the river. Like Lord Ullin's daughter, who would meet the
raging of the skies, but not an angry father, I was less afraid to go than to stay, and volunteered
to bring Pai-ku-li.

"Li-li-noe shall go with you," said Miss G----: "she is a good swimmer, and can find the best
way through the river."

Just then the whole crowd of girls came screaming and laughing down the stairs, swept through
the sitting-room, mocking and insulting Miss G----, then went back up the other flight of stairs,
which led to the teachers' rooms and was taboo to the school-girls. They were anxious to break
as many rules as possible.

With a lighted lantern hidden between us Li-li-noe and I stole down through the flower-garden
and across the lawn. We were anxious to keep the girls in ignorance of our absence, lest they
should attempt some violence to Miss G---- while we were gone. Stealing quietly past the grass
huts of the natives, we approached the place where the bridge had been, and brought forth our
lantern to shed light on the water-soaked path. Just ahead the surf showed through the darkness
white and threatening, and beyond was the ocean, dim heaving in the dusk. The clash and roar
of the meeting waters filled the air, and we were sprinkled by the flying spray as we stood
debating on the river's edge. Li-li-noe stepped down into the water to find, if possible, a
place shallow enough to ford, but at the first step she disappeared up to her shoulders. "That
will never do," she said, clambering back: "you cannot cross there."

"Can we cross above the bridge?" I asked.

"No: the water is ten feet deep there; it is shallower toward the sea."

"Then let us try there;" and into the water we went, Li-li-noe first. It was not quite waist-deep,
and in calm weather there would have been no danger, but now the current of the river and the
tide of the inrushing sea swept back and forth with the force of a whirlpool. We had got to
the middle when a great wave, white with foam, came roaring toward us from the ocean. Li-li-noe
threw herself forward and began to swim. For a moment there were darkness and the roar of many
waters around me, and my feet were almost swept from under me. Looking upward at the cloudy
sky and the tall cocoanut trees on the bank, I thought of the home and friends I might never
see again. The bitter salt water wet my face, quenched the light and carried away my shawl,
but the wave returned without carrying me out to sea. Then above the noise of the waters I
heard Li-li-noe's voice calling to me from the other shore, and just as another wave surged
in I reached her side and sank down on the sand. After resting a few moments we rose and began
picking our way toward the village, half a mile distant. Our route led along a narrow path
between the muddy, watery road on one side and a still more muddy, watery taro-patch on the
other. Without a light to guide our steps, we slipped, now with one foot into the road, now
with the other into the taro-patch, and by the time we emerged into the level cactus-field
around the church we were covered with mud to our knees.

Pai-ku-li lived nearly a mile beyond the village, but close by the church lived Mrs. W----,
whose place I had taken as English teacher in the school. We knocked at her door to beg for
a light, and when she found what the matter was she made us come in, muddy and dripping as
we were, and put on some dry clothes, while her husband, pulling on his boots, went for Pai-ku-li.
She begged me to stay all night, saying that she would not trust her life with the girls at
such a time--they might attempt to poison us or to burn the house down--but I thanked her for
her hospitality and lighted our lantern, and we started back as soon as Mr. W---- returned
saying that Pai-ku-li would come. We listened for the sound of his horse's feet, for we had
planned to ride across the river, one at a time, behind Pai-ku-li, but he did not overtake
us, and we waited at the river nearly half an hour. One span of the bridge remained, and as
we stood on it waiting, listening to the flapping of the cocoanut fronds in the night wind
and the hoarse murmuring and occasional roar of the ocean, I thought of that line of Longfellow's--

    I stood on the bridge at midnight--

and laughed to myself at the contrast between the poetical and the actual. Still, Pai-ku-li
did not come, and, growing anxious on Miss G----'s account, we resolved to cross as we had
before. Again we went down into the cold flood, again our light was quenched and our feet nearly
swept from under us, but we reached the opposite side in safety. As we crossed the lawn we
saw every window lighted, and knew by the sounds of yelling and singing and laughing that the
girls were still raving. Miss G---- sat quietly in the parlor. She had been up stairs to try
to reason with the girls, but they drowned her voice with hooting and reviling. Pai-ku-li came
a little later, but he had no better success. He remained with us that night and all the next
day. The screaming up stairs continued till two or three o'clock at night, and began again
as soon as the first girl woke. Early next morning a fleet messenger started to Honolulu, and
just at dusk two gentlemen, the sheriff and Mr. P----, who was Miss G----'s brother-in-law
and president of the board of trustees of Waialua Seminary, rode up on foaming horses. A court
was held in the school-room, many natives--a few of the better class who disapproved of the
rebellion, and more of the lower class who upheld the rebels--being present as spectators,
but no one interrupting the prompt and stern proceedings of Mr. P----. Elizabeth Aukai was
whipped on her bare feet and legs below the knee until she burst out crying and begged for
mercy and asked Miss G----'s forgiveness for biting her. Then she and the other rebels were
expelled, and the sheriff took them away that night. Those who lived on other islands were
sent home by the first schooner leaving Honolulu. Thus ended the rebellion at Waialua school.

The remaining month of my stay passed in peace and quietness. The need for my assistance was
less after the expulsion of so many girls, but I remained in order that Miss G---- might take
a short vacation and the rest she so much needed. During her absence Miss P---- and I carried
on the school. A few days after the storm a little native boy brought to the seminary the shawl
which had been washed from my shoulders the night I went through the river. He had found it
lying on the beach half a mile below the ford. It had been washed out to sea and returned again
by the waves. After that we called it "the travelled shawl." Every Monday morning the toot
of the postman's horn was heard in the village, and one of us immediately went across to get
the mail. The bridge being gone, we had to wade the river at the shallowest place, near the
sea. When I waded across on such occasions I usually found on the opposite shore a group of
half-naked little natives who drew near to watch with silent interest the process of buttoning
my shoes with a button-hook. The whole school waded across to church on Sundays.

The population of the village, with the exception of two or three families, was composed of
natives and half-whites of the lower class. Heathen superstition mingled with modern vice.
In some instances men and women lived together without the ceremony of marriage. Beyond the
village the cane-fields began, and beyond them, at the foot of the mountains, lived a better
class of natives, moral and industrious. Here, too, were the cane-mills and the residences
of the planters. I remember one pretty little cottage with walls of braided grass and wooden
roof and floor, surrounded by cool, vine-shaded verandas. It stood in the middle of a cane-plantation,
and was the home of an Englishman and his wife, both highly cultivated and genial, companionable
people. He was a typical Englishman in appearance, stout and ruddy, and wore a blue flannel
suit and the white head-covering worn by his countrymen in India. She was a graceful little
creature with appealing dark eyes, and looked too frail to have ever borne hardship or cruelty,
yet she had known little else all her early life. She had been left an orphan in England, and
had been sent out to Australia to make her living as a governess. She was thrown among brutal,
coarse-mannered people, and received harsh treatment and suffered many vicissitudes of fortune.
Finally, her husband met and loved and married her, and lifted her out of that hard life into
one which appeared by contrast a heaven of peace and kindness and affection. She often said
frankly, "That was the happiest event of my life. I can never be thankful enough to him or
love him enough. Sometimes I dream I am back again enduring that dreadful life in Australia,
and when I wake and realize that I am here in our own little cottage, thousands of miles from
Australia, I am freshly happy and grateful."

Near the foot of the mountains was a Catholic church and a school, round which a little village
had grown up. The self-sacrificing efforts of the teachers have been productive of good among
the natives, but there seems little hope of any co-operation between the Protestant missionaries
and them.

When the time came for me to return to Honolulu, Miss P---- offered to accompany me, and suggested
that instead of returning by the way I came we should take the longer way and complete the
circuit of the island. As the road lay directly along the sea-coast the entire distance, there
was no danger of our losing our way. Miss P---- rode Calico, the missionary steed, and I hired
a white horse of Nakaniella (Nathaniel), one of the patrons of the school, choosing it in preference
to a bay brought for my inspection the night before we started by a sullen-looking native from
the village. When we had gone two or three miles on our way we heard the sound of furious galloping
behind us, and looking back saw this native, with a face like a thunder-cloud, approaching
us on his bay horse. Reaching us, he insisted on my dismounting and taking his horse, saying
that I had promised to hire it the night before. Miss P----, being able to speak Hawaiian,
answered for me without slackening our pace. She said, in reply to his demands, that the wahine
haole had not promised to take his horse; that she would not pay him for his time and trouble
in bringing over the horse that morning and riding after us; that he might ride all the way
to Honolulu with us or go to law about the matter, both of which he threatened. Fuming with
wrath, he rode along with us for a mile or two, breathing out threatenings and slaughter in
vigorous Hawaiian: then, uttering the spiteful wish, "May your horses throw you and break your
necks!" he turned and rode back toward Waialua.

We passed through the ruins of a once-populous village: stone walls bordered the road for a
mile or more, and back of them were the stone foundations of native houses and heiaus (temples).
Pandanus trees, with roots like stilts or props that lifted them two or three feet from the
ground, grew inside the deserted enclosures: long grass waved from the chinks and crevices.
It was a mournful reminder of the decay of the Hawaiian race. Just beyond the ruined village
a sluggish creek flowed into the sea. At the mouth of the valley whence it issued stood two
or three native huts. A man wearing a malo was up on the roof of one, thatching it with grass.
Riding near, we hailed him and inquired about a quicksand which lay just ahead and which we
must cross. He told us to avoid the makai side and keep to the mouka side. We followed his
directions, and crossed in safety. For all practical purposes there are but two directions
in the islands--mouka, meaning toward the mountains, and makai, toward the sea.

We rode all the forenoon over a level strip of grassy open country bordering the sea, with
here and there a native hut near a clump of cocoanuts or a taro-patch. Toward noon we passed
fenced pastures in which many horses were grazing, and came in sight of a picturesque cottage
near the shore. Miss G---- had told us that on the lawn in front of this cottage were two curious
old stone idols which had been discovered in a fish-pond, and we rode up to the gate intending
to ask permission to enter and look at them. A Chinese servant let us in, and the owner, an
Englishman who lived here during part of the year, came and showed us the idols, and then invited
us inside his pretty cottage and gave us a lunch of bread and butter and guava jelly and oranges.
The walls and ceilings were of native wood, of the kinds used in delicate cabinet-work and
were polished until they shone. The floor was covered with fine straw matting, and around the
room were ranged easy-chairs and sofas of willow and rattan. In one corner stood a piano in
an ebony case, and on a koa-wood centre-table were a number of fine photographs and works of
art. Hanging baskets filled with blooming plants hung in each window and in the veranda. Altogether,
it was the prettiest hermitage imaginable.

Riding along that afternoon through a country much like that we had passed over in the morning,
we heard from a native hut the sound of the mournful Hawaiian wail, "Auea! auea!" (pronounced
like the word "away" long drawn out). To our inquiry if any one was dead within, a woman answered,
"No, but that some friends had come from a distance on a visit." I have frequently seen two
Hawaiian friends or relations who had not met for a long time express their emotions at seeing
one another again, not by kissing and laughing and joyful exclamations, but by sitting down
on the ground and wailing. Perhaps it was done in remembrance of their long separation and
of the changes that had taken place during that time. The native mode of kissing consists in
rubbing noses together.

Not far from this place we passed a Mormon settlement, a little colony sent out from Utah.
The group of bare white buildings was some distance back from the road, and we did not stop
to visit them. Near by was a hou-tree swamp, a spongy, marshy place where cattle were eating
grass that grew under water. They would reach down until their ears were almost covered, take
a mouthful and lift up their heads while they chewed it. Thus far on our journey there had
been a level plain two or three miles wide between the sea and the mountains, but here the
mountains came close down to the sea, leaving only a little strip of land along the beach.
High, stern cliffs with strange profiles, such as a lion, a canoe and a gigantic hen on her
nest, frowned upon us as we rode along their base. We passed a cold bubbling spring which had
worn a large basin for itself in the rock. It had formerly been the bathing-place of a chief,
and therefore taboo to the common people. In one of our gallops along the beach my stirrup-strap
broke, and we stopped in front of a solitary hut to ask for a stout string. A squid was drying
on a pole and scenting the air with its fishy odors. In answer to our call an old man in a
calico shirt came out of the hut, and, taking some strips of hou-bark, twisted them into a
strong string and fastened the stirrup. I gave him a real, and he exclaimed "Aloha!" with apparently
as much surprise and delight as if we had enriched him for life.

We rode through a little village at the mouth of a beautiful green valley, forded a river that
ran through it, and passing under more high cliffs came about four in the afternoon to Kahana,
our stopping-place for the night. It was a little cluster of houses at the head of a bay or
inlet of the sea, where the lovely transparent water was green as grass, and stood in the opening
of a valley enclosed by high, steep mountain-walls, with sharp ridges down their sides clothed
with rich forests. All around us grew delicate, luxuriant ferns, of which there are one hundred
and fifty varieties in the islands. Along the shores of the bay some women were wading, their
dresses held above their knees, picking shellfish and green sea-moss off the rocks for supper.
We rode up to the cottage of Kekoa, a native minister who had studied under Miss P----'s father.
His half-Chinese, half-native wife was in a grass hut at the back of the house, and she came
immediately to take our horses, saying that her husband was at the church, but would be at
home soon. Then opening the door, she told us to go inside and rest ourselves. It was a pretty
cottage, with floors and walls of wood and a grass roof. Braided mats of palm and pandanus-leaves
were on the floor, and on the walls hung portraits of the Hawaiian royal family and Generals
Lee and Grant. It had two rooms--a sitting-room and a bedroom--the first furnished with a table
and chairs, the latter with a huge high-posted bedstead with a canopy over it. Altogether,
it was much above the common native houses, and was evidently not used every day, but kept
for the reception of guests--travelling ministers and the like.

When Kekoa came he welcomed us warmly on account of the attachment he had for Miss P----'s
father, and told us to consider the house ours as long as it pleased us to stay. He sent his
wife to catch a chicken, and soon set before us on the table in the sitting-room a supper consisting
of boiled chicken, rice, baked taro, coarse salt from the bay, and bananas. We overlooked the
absence of bread, which the natives know not of, and shared the use of the one knife and fork
between us. Our host waited on us, his wife bringing the food to the door and handing it to
him. After supper other natives came in, and Miss P---- conversed with them in Hawaiian. Being
tired and stiff from my long ride, I went into the next room and lay down on the bed. Mrs.
Kekoa came in presently and began to lomi-lomi me. She kneaded me with her hands from head
to foot, just as a cook kneads dough, continuing the process for nearly an hour, although I
begged her several times to stop lest she should be tired. At the end of that time all sensation
of fatigue and stiffness was gone and I felt fresh and well. Kekoa and his wife slept in a
grass hut several rods farther up the valley, and Miss P---- and I had the house to ourselves.
In the middle of the night we were awakened by the sound of a man talking in through the open
window of our room. We both thought for a moment that it was our persecutor of the morning
who had followed us as he had threatened, but it proved to be a native from the head of the
valley who wanted to see Kekoa. Miss P---- directed him to the grass hut where our host slept,
and he went away, and we were not disturbed again. Next morning we had breakfast like the supper,
and asked for our horses. Kekoa and his wife begged us to stay longer, but we could not, and
parted from them with much regret. We afterward sent them some large photographs of scenes
in Honolulu, and received an affectionate message from them in return. I look back to Kahana
as a sort of Happy Valley, and dream sometimes of going back and seeing again its beautiful
pale-green bay, its glittering blue sea, its grand mountain-walls clothed in richest verdure,
and renewing my acquaintance with its kind-hearted people. Several natives gathered to say
good-bye, and two of them rode with us out of the valley and saw us fairly on our way.

We rode past cane-plantations fenced with palm-tree trunks or hedged with huge prickly pear;
past thickets of wild indigo and castor bean; through guava-jungles, where we pulled and ate
the ripe fruit, yellow outside and pink within; past large fish-ponds that had been constructed
for the chiefs in former days; past rice-fields where Chinese were scaring away the birds;
past threshing-floors where Chinese were threshing rice; past kamani trees (from Tahiti) that
looked like umbrellas slanting upward; past a flock of mina-birds brought from Australia; past
aloe-plants and vast thickets of red and yellow lantana in blossom, reaching as high as our
horses' necks.

We dismounted in front of a little grass hut where we heard the sound of a tappa-pounder, and
went to the door. An old native woman, with her arms tattooed with India-ink, was sitting on
a mat spread on the ground, with a sheet of moist red tappa lying over a beam placed on the
ground in front of her, and a four-sided mallet in her hand. Beside her sat a young half-white
girl with a large tortoise-shell comb in her hair and a fat little dog in her arms. We asked
if we could come in and see the tappa. The old woman said "Yes," and displayed it with some
pride. She was making it to give to Queen Emma, hence the pains she was taking with the coloring
and the pattern. The bark of a shrub resembling our pawpaw tree is steeped in water until it
becomes a mass of pulp. Then it is laid on the heavy beam and beaten with the tappa-pounder,
and pulled and stretched until it becomes a square sheet with firm edges, about as thick as
calico and six or eight feet square. The juice of berries or dye from the bark of trees furnishes
the coloring, and the pattern is determined by the figures cut in the tappa-pounder. Some fine
mats rolled-up in one corner and some braided baskets on the wall were also the work of this
tappa-maker.

We passed through several villages as we neared our journey's end, and the scenery grew more
interesting. The palm trees on the beach framed views of little islands bathed in sea-mist
which lay half a mile or more from the shore. Narrow green valleys with high steep walls, down
whose sides flashed bright waterfalls, opened to view one after another on the mouka or inland
side. At the mouth of one we saw a twig of ohia, or native apple tree, placed carefully between
two stones. Some superstitious native had put it there as an offering, that the goddess of
that valley might not roll down rocks on him and kill him. The Pali, a stupendous perpendicular
cliff four thousand feet high, faces the sea a few miles from Honolulu. We came in sight of
it early in the afternoon, and stopped on a grassy knoll near a clear stream to eat our lunch
and allow our horses to graze. The hardest part of the whole journey lay immediately before
us. A zigzag path has been cut up the face of the cliff, but it is so steep and narrow that
carriages cannot pass over it, and it is with much exertion and heavy panting that it can be
climbed by man or beast. The face of the cliff is hung with vines and ferns, and at its base
grow palms and the rich vegetation of the tropics. It is the grandest bit of scenery on Oahu.
We rode our horses to the foot of the Pali: then, out of compassion for them, dismounted and
led them up the long steep path, stopping several times to rest. On the way some natives passed
us on horseback, racing up the Pali! At the top we stood a while in silence, gazing at the
magnificent prospect spread out below us. We could see miles of the road we had come--silvery-green
cane-plantations, little villages with white church-spires, rich groves of palm, kukui and
koa, and the sea rising like a dark blue wall all around the horizon. Then we mounted and turned
our faces toward Honolulu. On either side were lofty mountain-walls, with perpendicular sides
clothed with vivid green and hung with silvery waterfalls. We were entering the city by Nuannu
("Cold Spring") Valley, the most delightful and fashionable suburb. Here were Queen Emma's
residence, set in the midst of extensive and beautiful grounds, the Botanical Gardens, the
residence of the American minister, the royal mausoleum and the house and gardens once occupied
by Kalumma, a former queen. Crowds of gayly-dressed natives galloped past us as we neared the
city, wearing wreaths of fern and flowers. One man carried a half-grown pig in a rope net attached
to his stirrup: it looked tired of life. So, under the arching algaroba and monkey-pod trees
that shade Nuannu Avenue, and past the royal palms that grace the yards, we rode into beautiful
Honolulu.

                          LOUISE COFFIN JONES.

FINDELKIND OF MARTINSWAND: A CHILD'S STORY.

"Oh, no, no, no!"

                          OUIDA.

HORSE-RACING IN FRANCE.

CONCLUDING PAPER.

By the end of July the dispersion of the racing fraternity has become general. Some have gone
into the provinces to lead the pleasant life of the château; some are in the Pyrenees, eating
trout and cotelettes d'izard at Luchon; while those whom the Paris season has quite worn out,
or put in what they would call too "high" a condition, are refitting at Mont Dore or else at
Vichy, which is the Saratoga of France--with this difference, that nobody goes to Vichy unless
he is really ill, and that very few were ever known to get married there. But if our friend
the sportsman should happen to have nothing the matter with him, and should know of nothing
better to do during the summer than to go where his equine instincts would lead him, he may
spend the month of July at least in following what is called "the Norman circuit." This consists
of a series of meetings at different places, either on the coast or very near the Channel,
in that green land of Normandy which is to France what the blue-grass region of Kentucky is
to America--the great horse-raising province of the country. Here the circuit begins with the
Beauvais meeting, always largely attended by reason of its proximity to Paris and to the numerous
châteaux, all occupied at this season of the year, and in one of which, at Mouchy-le-Chastel,
the duc de Mouchy entertains a large and distinguished company. Sunday and Tuesday are the
days for races at Beauvais, Monday being given up to pigeon-shooting. Then follow in quick
succession the courses of Amiens, Abbeville, Rouen, Havre and Caen; and in all these places
the daily programme will be found to be a very varied one--too much so, indeed, to suit the
taste of the English, whose notions of the fitness of things are offended by the sight of a
steeple-chase and a flat-race on the same track. The Normans, on the contrary, finding even
this double attraction insufficient, add to it the excitement of a trotting-match in harness
and under the saddle. And such trotting! "Allais! marchais!" shouts the starter in good Norman,
and away go the horses, dragging their lumbering, rattling Norman carts, guided by equally
ponderous Norman peasants, over a track that is sure to be heavy or else too hard--conditions
sufficient of themselves to account for the fact that the time made by these provincial trotters
has not by any means been reduced to figures like the 2.18 of Dexter or the phenomenal 2.14
of Goldsmith Maid. It is possible, however, that this somewhat primitive condition of things
may be gradually bettered by time, and that when American institutions and customs shall have
come to be the mode in France trotting-races, and perhaps walking-matches and base-ball, will
be developed with the rest; but up to the present time, it must be confessed, these various
amusements have been regarded by the French public with profound indifference.

I cannot help feeling the most lively regret that trotting-contests should have taken no hold
upon the fancy of my countrymen, who would find in their magnificent roads an opportunity for
the demonstration of the practical, every-day value of a good trotter far more favorable than
any possessed by America. But it seems that no considerations of utility or convenience can
prevail against popular prejudices and, above all, the mode; and we find even the baron d'Étreilles,
official handicapper and starter to the Jockey Club--and therefore an authority--writing this
singular paragraph in Le Sport: "Trotting-races deserve but little encouragement. The so-called
trotting-horse does not, in fact, trot at all. His pace is forced to such a degree of exaggeration
as to lose all regularity, at the same time that it is rendered valueless for any practical
purpose. The trotter can no more be put to his speed upon an ordinary road than can the racer
himself. By breaking up the natural gait of a horse he is made to attain an exceptional speed,
it is true, but in doing so he has contracted an abnormal sort of movement for which it is
impossible to find a name. It is something between a trot and a racking pace, and with it a
first-rate trotter can make four kilomètres (two miles and a half) in seven minutes and a half,
and not much less, whatever may be said to the contrary. I know that certain time-keepers have
marked this distance as having been done in seven minutes, but this I consider disputable,
to say the least." M. d'Étreilles cites, however, as an exception to his rules, a horse called
Rochester, belonging to the Prince E. de Beauvan, which trotted nineteen miles in one hour
without breaking or pacing, but when a return bet was proposed, with the distance increased
to twenty miles, the owner of Rochester refused.

These assertions of the French authority will appear strange enough to Americans. But we must
add that the views of M. d'Étreilles on this subject are by no means universally shared in
France. A writer whose practical experience and long observation entitle his opinions to much
weight--M. Gayot--goes so far as to say that the American trotters really form a distinct race.
"The Northern States of the Union," he writes, "have accomplished for the trotter what England
has done for the thoroughbred: by selecting the best--that is to say, the swiftest and the
most enduring--and by breeding from these, there has been fixed in the very nature of their
progeny that wonderful aptitude for speed which," in direct contradiction to the opinion of
M. d'Étreilles, he declares to be "of the greatest practical utility."

The administration of the Haras and the Society for the Encouragement of the Raising of Horses
of Half-blood have established special meetings at which trotting-prizes are given. That these
are by no means to be despised has been proved by M. Jouben's Norman trotter Tentateur, who
last year earned for his owner twenty thousand francs without the bets. There is a special
journal, La France Chevaline, which represents the interests of the "trot," and its development
has been further encouraged by an appropriation of sixty thousand francs voted this year by
the Chamber. A former officer of the Haras has also set up an establishment at Vire for the
training of trotters. In 1878 a track was laid out at Maison Lafitte, near Paris, for the trial
of trotting-horses, and the government, in the hope that animals trained to this gait would
be sent to Paris from other countries during the great Exhibition if sufficient inducement
were offered, awarded a sum of sixty-two thousand francs to be given in premiums. Six races
took place on the principal day of the trials. These were in harness to two- and four-wheeled
wagons, and two of the matches were won by Normans, two by English horses and two by horses
from Russia of the Orloff breed. America was, unfortunately, not represented. As to the public,
it took little interest in the event, notwithstanding its novelty: the few persons who had
come to look on soon grew tired of it, and after the fourth race not a single spectator was
left upon the stands.

The marquis de MacMahon, brother of the marshal, used to say that the gallop was the gait of
happy people, the natural movement of women and of fools. "The three prettiest things in the
world," wrote Balzac, "are a frigate under sail, a woman dancing and a horse at full run."
I leave these opinions, so essentially French, to the judgment of Americans, and turn to another
point of difference in the racing customs of the two countries.

In France the practice of recording the time of a race is looked upon as childish. The reason
given is, that horses that have run or trotted separately against time will often show quite
contrary results when matched against each other, and that the one that has made the shortest
time on the separate trial will frequently be easily beaten on the same track by the one that
showed less speed when tried alone. However this may be, it appears that the average speed
of running races in France has increased since 1872. At that time it was one minute and two
to three seconds for one thousand mètres (five furlongs); for two thousand mètres (a mile and
a quarter), 2m. 8 to 10s.; for three thousand mètres (one mile seven furlongs), 3m. 34 to 35s.;
for four thousand mètres (two miles and a half), 4m. 30 to 35s. The distance of the Prix Gladiateur
(six thousand two hundred mètres or three and three-quarter miles one furlong)--the longest
in France--is generally accomplished in 8m. 5 to 6s., though Mon Étoile has done it in 7m.
25s. But the mean speed, as we have said, has been raised since 1872, as it has been in America.

But let us come back to our Norman circuit, which this digression about time and trotting interrupted
at Rouen. The sleepy old mediæval town on this occasion rouses itself from its dreams of the
past and awakens to welcome the crowd of Norman farmers who come flocking in, clad for the
most part in the national blue blouse, but still bearing about their persons those unmistakable
though quite indescribable marks by which the turfman can recognize at a glance and under any
costume the man whose business is with horses. Every trade and calling in life perhaps may
be said to impart to its followers some distinguishing peculiarity by which the brethren of
the craft at least will instinctively know each other; and amongst horse-fanciers these mysterious
signs of recognition are as infallible as the signals of Freemasonry. As one penetrates still
farther into Normandy on his way to the Caen races--which come off a few days after those at
Rouen--one becomes still more alive to the fact that he is in a great horse-raising country.
It is indeed to the departments of Calvados and the Orne beyond all other places that we owe
those fine Norman stallions of which so many have been imported into America. In the Pin stud,
at the fairs of Guibray and of Montagne, one may see the descendants of the colossal Roman-nosed
horses of Merlerault and Cotentin which used to bear the weight of riders clad in iron, and
which figure at a later day in the pictures of Van der Meulen. The infusion of English blood
within the present century, and particularly during the Second Empire, has profoundly modified
the character of the animal known to our ancestors: the Norman, with the rest of the various
races once so numerous in France, is rapidly disappearing, and it will not be very long before
two uniform types only will prevail--the draught-horse and the thoroughbred.

The race-course at Caen is one of the oldest in France, having been established as long ago
as 1837. The most important events of its programme are the Prix de la Ville (handicap), with
premium and stakes amounting to twenty or twenty-five thousand francs, on which the heaviest
bets of the intermediate season are made, and the Grand St. Léger of France, which before the
war took place at Moulins, and which is far from being of equal importance with the celebrated
race at Doncaster whose name it bears. The site of the track at Caen is a beautiful meadow
upon the banks of the Orne, very long and bordered with fine trees, but unfortunately too narrow,
and consequently awkward at the turns.

By the rules of the Société colts of two years are not allowed to run before the first of August,
and as the Caen races take place during the first week of this month, they have the first gathering
of the season's crop of two-year-olds--an event which naturally excites the curiosity of followers
of the turf. The wisdom and utility of subjecting animals of this age to such a strain upon
their powers have been much discussed, and good judges have strongly condemned the precocious
training involved, as tending to check the natural development of the horse, and sometimes
putting a premature end to his career as a racer. In England these races have been multiplied
to abuse. There are signs of a reaction, however, in France, where several owners of racing-stables,
following the example set by M. Lupin, have found their advantage in refusing to take part
in the pernicious practice. For, after all, these first trials really prove nothing at all.
They are found to furnish no standard by which any accurate measure can be taken of the future
achievements of the horse. In fact, if one will take the trouble to examine the lists of winners
of these two-year-old criterions, as they are called, he will find but very few names that
have afterward become illustrious in the annals of the turf.

The races of Caen over, their followers take themselves some few leagues farther upon their
circuit, to attend the meeting at Cabourg, one of those pretty little towns, made up of about
a hundred villas, four hotels, a church and a casino, that lie scattered along the Norman coast
like beads of a broken necklace. Living is dear in these stylish little out-of-the-way places,
and this naturally keeps away the more plebeian element that frequents the great centres. About
the fifteenth of August begins the week of races at Déauville, the principal event of the Norman
circuit, bringing together not unfrequently as many as a hundred and sixty horses, and ranking,
in fact, as third in importance in all France, the meetings at Longchamps and Chantilly alone
taking precedence of it. It is to the duc de Morny that Déauville owes the existence of its
"hippodrome," but the choice of this bit of sandy beach, that seemed to have been thrown up
and abandoned by the sea like a waif, cannot be called a happy one. It may be, however, that
the duke's selection of the site was determined by its proximity to the luxuriant valley of
the Auge, so famous for its excellent pasturage and for the number of its stables. The Victor
stud belonging to M. Aumont, that of Fervacques, the property of M. de Montgomery, and the
baron de Rothschild's establishment at Meautry, are all in the immediate neighborhood of Déauville;
but even these advantages do not compensate for the unfavorable character of the track, laid
out, as we have said, upon land from which the sea had receded, and which, as might have been
expected, was sure to be hard and cracked in a dry season. To remedy this most serious defect,
and to bring the ground to its present degree of excellence, large sums had to be expended.
The aspect of the race-course to-day, however, is really charming. A rustic air has been given
to the stands, the ring, even to the stables that enclose the paddock, but it is a rusticity
quite compatible with elegance, like that of the pretty Norman farm in the garden of Trianon.
The purse for two-year-olds used to be called, under the Empire, the Prix Morny, but this name
was withdrawn at the same time that the statue of the duke, which once stood in Déauville,
was pulled down.

Our Norman circuit comes to a close with the races at Dieppe, which finished last year on the
26th of August. Dieppe was celebrated during the Empire for its steeple-chases, which were
run upon a somewhat hilly ground left almost in its natural state--a very unusual thing in
France. The flat- and hurdle-races which have succeeded to these since the war are not of sufficient
importance to detain us.

Returning from this agreeable summer jaunt, in which the pleasures of sea-bathing have added
a zest to the enjoyment of the race-course, the followers of the turf will seek, on coming
back to Paris in the early days of September, the autumn meetings at Fontainebleau and at Longchamps.
But they will not find the paddock of the latter at this season of the year bustling with the
life and fashion that gave it such brilliancy in the spring, and the "return from the races"
is made up of little else than hired cabs drawn by broken-down steeds. It is just the period
when Paris, crowded with economical strangers, English or German--the former on their return,
perhaps, from Switzerland, the latter enjoying their vacation after their manner--mourns the
absence of her own gay world. The haute gomme--the swells, the upper ten--are still in the
provinces. They have left the sea-side, it is true--it was time for that--but the season in
the Pyrenees is not over yet, and Luchon and Bigone will be full until the middle of September,
and not before the month is ended will Biarritz give up her pleasure-seekers. The opening of
the shooting season on the first Sunday of September has scattered the sportsmen throughout
the twenty-five or thirty departments in which there is still left a chance of finding game.
But the best shooting is in the neighborhood of Paris, in the departments of Seine-et-Marne
and Seine-et-Oise--at Grosbois with the prince de Wagram; at St. Germain-les-Corbeil on the
estate of M. Darblay; at Bois-Boudran with the comte de Greffuhle; or at the château of the
baron de Rothschild at Ferrières; and the numerous guests of these gentlemen may, if they are
inclined, take a day to see the Omnium or the Prix Royal Oak run between two battues aux faisans.
The Omnium is the most important of the handicaps: it is the French Cæsarewitch, though with
a difference. The distance of the latter is two miles and two furlongs, that of the Omnium
but a mile and a half. The value of the stakes is generally from twenty-five to thirty thousand
francs. As its name would indicate, this race, by exception to the fundamental principle of
the Jockey Club, is open to horses of every kind, without regard to pedigree, above the age
of three years. A horse that has gained a prize of two thousand francs after the publication
of the weights is handicapped with an overweight of two kilogrammes and a half (a trifle over
five pounds); if he has gained several such, with three kilos; if he is the winner of an eight-thousand-franc
purse, he has to carry an overweight of four kilos, or one of five kilos if he has won more
than one race of the value last mentioned. The publication of the weights takes place at the
end of June, when the betting begins. Heavy and numerous are the wagers on this important race,
and as the prospects of the various horses entered change from time to time according to the
prizes gained and the overweights incurred, the quotation naturally undergoes the most unlooked-for
variations. A lot of money is won and lost before the real favorites have revealed themselves;
that is to say, before the last week preceding the race. The winner of the Omnium is hardly
ever a horse of the first rank, and the baron d'Étreilles undertakes to tell us why. The object
of the handicap, he says, being to equalize the chances of several horses of different degrees
of merit, the handicapper is in a manner obliged to make it next to impossible for the first-rate
horses to win; otherwise, the owners of the inferior animals, seeing that they had no chance,
would prefer to pay forfeit, and the harmony, as it were, of the contest--the even balancing
of chances, which is of the very essence of the handicap--would be lacking. On the other hand,
the handicapper cannot bring the chances of the really bad horses up to the mean average, no
matter how much he may favor them in the weights, and thus it nearly always turns out that
the Omnium, like every other important handicap, is won by a horse of the second class, generally
a three-year-old, whose real merits have been hidden from the handicapper. This concealment
is not so difficult as it might seem. There are certain owners who, when they have satisfied
themselves by trials made before the spring races that they have in their stables a few horses
not quite good enough to stand a chance in the great contests, but still by no means without
valuable qualities, prefer to reserve them for an important affair like the Omnium, on which
they can bet heavily and to advantage, especially if they have a "dark horse," or one that
is as yet unknown. Otherwise, to what use could these second-rate horses be put? If one should
run them in the spring they might get one or two of the smaller stakes, after which everybody
would have their measure. Their owners, therefore, show wisdom in keeping them out of sight,
or perhaps, as some of the shrewder ones do, by running them when rather out of condition,
and thus ensuring their defeat by adversaries really inferior to themselves. In this way the
handicapper is deceived as to their true qualities, and is induced to weight them advantageously
for the Omnium.

Many readers but little conversant with turf matters will no doubt be scandalized to hear of
these tricks of the trade, and will be apt to conclude that good faith is no more the fashion
at Longchamps than at the Bourse, and that cleverness in betting, as in stockjobbing, consists
in knowing when to depreciate values and when to inflate them, as one happens to be a bull
or a bear in the market. The truth is, that no rules can be devised, either by Jockey Clubs
or by imperial parliaments, that can put a stop to these abuses: they will exist, in spite
of legislation, as long as the double character of owner and better can be united in the same
person. If this person should not act in perfect good faith, all restraining laws will be illusory,
because the betting owner has the cards in his own hands, and can withdraw a horse or make
him run at his pleasure, or even make him lose a race in case of need. If the thing is managed
with skill, it is almost impossible to discover the deception. In 1877, at Déauville, the comte
de Clermont-Tonnere and his jockey, Goddart, were expelled from the turf because the latter
had "pulled" his horse in such a clumsy and unmistakable way that the spectators could not
fail to see it. This circumstance was without precedent in France, and yet how often has the
trick, which in this case was exposed, been practised without any one being the wiser for it!
It ought to be added that the betters make one claim that is altogether unreasonable, and that
is--at least this is the only inference from their talk--that when they have once "taken" a
horse, as they call it, in a race, the owner thereby loses a part of his proprietorship in
the animal, and is bound to share his rights of ownership with them. But one cannot thus limit
the rights of property, and as long as the owner does not purposely lose a race, and does not
deceive the handicapper as to the real value of his horse for the purpose of getting a reduction
of weights, he can surely do as he pleases with his own. There will remain, of course, the
question of morality and of delicacy, of which each one must be the judge for himself. M. Lupin,
for example, and Lord Falmouth, when they have two horses engaged for the same purse, always
let these take their chances, and do nothing to prevent the better horse from being the winner,
while the comte de Lagrange, as we have had occasion to observe before, has acquired the reputation
of winning, if he can, with his worst animal, or at least with the one upon whose success the
public has least counted. This is what took place when he gained the Grand Prix de Paris in
1877 with an outsider, St. Christophe, whilst all the betters had calculated upon the victory
of his other horse, Verneuil. So the duke of Hamilton in 1878 at Goodwood, where one of his
horses was the favorite, declared just at the start that he meant to win with another, and
by his orders the favorite was pulled double at the finish. The same year, in America, Mr.
Lorillard caused Parole, then a two-year-old, to be beaten by one of his stable-companions
and one decidedly his inferior. When this sort of thing is done the ring makes a great uproar
about it, but without reason, for there can be no question of an owner's right to save his
best horse, if he can, from a future overweight by winning with another not so good. Only he
ought frankly to declare his intention to do so before the race.

The autumn stakes that rank next in importance to the Omnium are known as the Prix Royal Oak,
open, like its counterpart, the St. Leger of Doncaster, to colts and fillies of three years
only, with an unloading of three pounds for the latter. On this occasion one will have an opportunity
of seeing again in the Bois de Boulogne the contestants of the great prizes of the spring.
The Royal Oak is nearly always won by a horse of the first class, and in the illustrious list
may be found the names of Gladiateur and of four winners of the French Derby--Patricien, Boïard,
Kilt and Jongleur.

In October, Longchamps is deserted for Chantilly, where the trials of two-year-olds take place--the
first criterion for horses, the second criterion for fillies--the distance in these two races
being eight hundred mètres, or half a mile. The Grand Criterion, for colts and fillies, has
a distance of double this, or one mile (sixteen hundred mètres). Since their débuts in August
at Caen and Déauville the young horses have had time to harden and to show better what they
are made of; and it is in the Grand Criterion that one looks for the most certain indications
of their future career. The names of the winners will be found to include many that have afterward
become celebrated, such as Mon Étoile, Stradella, Le Béarnais, Mongoubert, Sornette, Révigny
and others.

Chantilly is the birthplace of racing in France. In the winter of 1833--the same year which
also witnessed the foundation of the Jockey Club--Prince Labanoff, who was then living at Chantilly,
and who had secured the privilege of hunting in the forest, invited several well-known lovers
of the chase to join him in the sport. Tempted by the elasticity of the turf, it occurred to
the hunters to get up a race, and meeting at the Constable's Table--a spot where once stood
the stump of a large tree on which, as the story goes, the constable of France used to dine--they
improvised a race-course which has proved the prolific mother of the tracks to be found to-day
all over the country. In this first trial M. de Normandie was the winner. The fate of Chantilly
was decided. Since the suicide--or the assassination--of the last of the Condés the castle
had been abandoned, the duc d'Aumale, its inheritor, being then a minor. The little town itself
seemed dying of exhaustion. It was resolved to infuse into it a new life by taking advantage
of the exceptional quality of its turf. The soil is a rather hard sand, resisting pressure,
elastic, and covered with a fine thick sward, and of a natural drainage so excellent that even
the longest rains have no visible effect upon it. On this ground--as good as, if not better
than, that at Newmarket--there is to-day a track of two thousand mètres, or a mile and a quarter--the
distance generally adopted in France--with good turns, excepting the one known as the "Réservoirs,"
which is rather awkward, and which has the additional disadvantage of skirting the road to
the training-stables--a temptation to bolt that is sometimes too strong for horses of a doubtful
character. For this reason there is sometimes a little confusion in the field at this point.
Before coming to the last turn there is a descent, followed by a rise--both of them pretty
stiff--and this undoubtedly has its effect on the result, for the lazier horses fall away a
little on the ascent. Just at this point too a clump of trees happens to hide the track from
the spectators on the stands, and all the lorgnettes are turned on the summit of the rise to
watch for the reappearance of the horses, who are pretty sure to turn up in a different order
from that in which they were last seen. This crisis of the race is sometimes very exciting.
A magnificent forest of beech borders and forms a background to the race-course in the rear
of the stands; in front rise the splendid and imposing stables of the duc d'Aumale, built by
Mansard for the Great Condé; on the right is the pretty Renaissance château of His Royal Highness;
while the view loses itself in a vast horizon of distant forest and hills of misty blue. The
stands are the first that were erected in France, and in 1833 they seemed no doubt the height
of comfort and elegance, but to-day they are quite too small to accommodate the ever-increasing
crowd. The stands as well as the stables, and the race-course itself, all belong to the duc
d'Aumale, who gave a splendid house-warming and brilliant fête last October to celebrate the
completion of the restorations of his ancestral château. Under the Empire, the property of
the Orleans princes having been confiscated, a nominal transfer of Chantilly was made to a
friend of the family. The emperor, having one day signified his wish to witness the Derby,
had the mortification on his arrival to find the reserved stand closed against him by the prince's
orders. It was necessary to force the gate. The emperor took the hint, however, and never went
to Chantilly again.

The soil of the Forest of Fontainebleau being of the same nature as that of the turf in the
open, the alleys of the park furnish an invaluable resource to the trainer. For this reason,
since racing has come in vogue, most of the stables have found their way to Chantilly or to
its immediate neighborhood, where one of the largest and finest alleys of the forest, running
parallel to the railway and known as the Alley of the Lions, has been given up to their use.
Thus, Chantilly, with its Derby Day and its training-grounds, may be called at once the Epsom
and the Newmarket of France. There is hardly a horse, with the exception of those of the comte
de Lagrange and of M. Lupin, and those of Henry Jennings, the public trainer, that is not "worked"
in the Alley of the Lions. The Société d'Encouragement has control of the training-ground as
well as of the track, and also claims the right to keep spectators away from the trial-gallops,
so that the duc d'Aumale, whose proprietary privileges are thus usurped, is often at war with
the society. He has stag-hunts twice a week during the winter, on Mondays and Thursdays, and
now and then on Sundays too--as he did with the grand duke of Austria on his late visit to
Chantilly--and he naturally objects to having the hunt cut in two by the gallops over his principal
avenue. He worries the trainers to such a degree that they begin to talk of quitting Chantilly
for some more hospitable quarters. When things get to this pass the duke, who, in his character
of councillor-general, is bound to look after the interests of his constituents, relents, and
putting aside his personal wrongs calls a parley with the stewards of the races, offers a new
prize--an object of art perhaps--or talks of enlarging the stands, and the gage of reconciliation
being accepted, peace is made to last until some new casus belli shall occur. His Royal Highness
is not forgetful of the duties of his position. When he is at Chantilly on a race-day he gracefully
does the honors of his reserved stand to all the little Orleanist court. Since the reconciliation
that took place between the comte de Paris and the comte de Chambord in 1873 this miniature
court has been enlarged by the addition of several personages of the Legitimist circle, and
the "ring" at Chantilly is often graced with a most distinguished and aristocratic assemblage.
Amongst the beauties of this brilliant company may be especially noticed Madame de Viel-Castel,
the young princesse Amédé de Broglie, the duchesse de Chaulnes with her strange, unconventional
type of beauty, Madame Ferdinand Bischoffsheim, the comtesse Beugnot, the comtesse Tanneguy-Duchâtel
and the princesse de Sagan. And when all this gay party has dispersed, and the duke is left
to his cigar--as constant a companion as the historical weed in the mouth of General Grant--he
might almost fancy, as he walks the great street of his good town, that he is back again at
Twickenham in the days of his exile. There is something to remind him on every side of the
country that once sheltered him. To right and left are English farrieries, English saddleries,
and English bars and taverns too. English is the language that reaches his ears, and English
of the most "horsey" sort that one can hear this side of Newmarket. Everybody has the peculiar
gait and costume that belong to the English horseman: the low-crowned hat, the short jacket,
those tight trousers and big, strong boots, are not to be mistaken. It is a little world in
itself, in which no Frenchman could long exist, but its peculiar inhabitants have not, for
all that, neglected anything that may attract the young folk of the country. They have even
offered the bribe of a race in which only French jockeys are permitted to ride, but these,
with only an exception here and there, have very promptly given up the business, disgusted
either by the severe regimen required in the matter of diet or by the rigorous discipline indispensable
in a training-stable. The few exceptions to which I have referred have not sufficed to prevent
this race from falling into disrepute; but it may be worth mentioning that on the last occasion
on which it was run, the 19th October last, when but three or four horses were engaged, the
baron de Bizé, with what has been called a veritable inspiration of genius, threw an unlooked-for
interest into the event by mounting in person M. Camille Blanc's horse Nonancourt, and winning
the race with him. It is to be borne in mind that the riders must not only have been born in
France, but must be of French parentage on the side of both father and mother.

The best-known jockeys are nearly all the children of English parents, and have first seen
the light in the little colony at Chantilly or else have been brought very young into France.
I give some of their names, classed according to the number of victories gained by them respectively
in 1878: Hunter, who generally rides for M. Fould, 47 victories; Wheeler, head-jockey and trainer
for M. Ed. Blanc, 45 victories; Hislop, 39; Hudson, ex-jockey to M. Lupin, who gained last
year the Grand Prix de Paris, 36 victories; Rolf, 35; Carratt, 32; Goater, who rides for the
comte de Lagrange, and who is well known in England; and Edwards, whose "mount" was at one
time quite the mode, and whose tragical death on the 3d of October last created a painful sensation.
When Lamplugh was training for the duke of Hamilton he made Edwards "first stable-boy," and
this and his subsequent successes excited a violent jealousy in one of his stable-companions
named Page. The two jockeys separated, but instead of fighting a duel, as Frenchmen might have
done, they simply rode against each other one day at Auteuil--Page on Leona, and Edwards on
Peau-d'Âne. The struggle was a desperate one: both riders got bad falls from their exhausted
mares, and from that time poor Edwards never regained his aplomb. He frequently came to grief
afterward, and met his death in consequence of a fall from Slowmatch at Maison Lafitte.

One of the oldest celebrities of Chantilly is Charles Pratt, formerly trainer and jockey for
the baron Nivière and for the late Charles Lafitte, and at present in the service of the prince
d'Aremberg. His system of training approached very nearly that of Henry Jennings, under whose
orders and instructions he had worked for a long time. His horses were always just in the right
condition on the day they were wanted, and as he never allowed them to be overridden, their
legs remained uninjured for many years--a thing that has become too rare in France as well
as in England. As a jockey Pratt possessed, better than any other, that knowledge of pace without
which a rider is sure to commit irreparable mistakes. At the Grand Prix de Paris of 1870, when
he rode Sornette, he undertook the daring feat of keeping the head of the field from the start
to the finish. Such an enterprise in a race so important and so trying as this demanded the
nicest instinct for pace and the most thorough knowledge, which as trainer he already possessed,
of the impressionable nature and high qualities of his mare.

The autumn meetings at Chantilly close the legitimate season in France. The affairs at Tours
are of little interest except to the foreign colony--which at this season of the year is pretty
numerous in Touraine--and to the people of the surrounding country. On these occasions the
cavalry officers in garrison at Tours get up paper hunts, a species of sport which is rapidly
growing in favor and promises to become a national pastime. Whatever interest attaches to the
November races at Bordeaux is purely local. Turfmen who cannot get through the winter without
the sight of the jockeys' silk jackets and the bookmakers' mackintoshes must betake themselves
to Pau in December. The first of the four winter meetings takes place during this month upon
a heath at a distance of four kilomètres--say about two miles and a half--from the town. The
exceptional climate and situation of Pau, where the frozen-out fox-hunters of England come
to hunt, and where there is a populous American colony, will no doubt before long give a certain
importance to these races, but just now the local committee is short of funds and the stakes
have been insufficient to offer an attraction to good horses. Last winter in one of the steeple-chases
all the horses tumbled pell-mell into the river, which was the very first obstacle they encountered,
and although the public was quite used to seeing riders come to grief, it found the incident
somewhat extraordinary.

The meetings at Nice, the queen of all winter residences in Europe, are much finer and more
worthy of attention. They begin in January, and the programme has to be arranged almost exclusively
for steeple-chases and hurdle-races, as flat-racers are not in condition for running at the
time when the season at Nice is at its height. The greater number, and particularly the best,
of the racers have important engagements for the spring meetings at Paris and at Chantilly,
and even in view of really valuable prizes they could not afford at this time of year to undergo
a complete preparation, which would advance them too rapidly in their training and would make
it impossible to have them in prime condition in the spring. The race-course at Nice is charmingly
situated in the valley of the Var. The perfume of flowers from numerous beds reaches the stands,
where one may enjoy a magnificent view of mountain and sea, whilst a good band discourses music
in the intervals of the races. Some of the prizes are important. The Grand Prix de Monaco,
for instance, popularly known as "The Cup", consists of an object of art given by the prince
of Monaco and a purse of twenty thousand francs, without counting the entrance-stakes. On the
second day is run the great hurdle handicap for seventy-five hundred francs called the Prix
de Monte Carlo, and on the third and last day of the meeting the Grand Prix de Nice, a free
handicap steeple-chase for a purse of ten thousand francs.

The international pigeon-shooting matches at Monaco, which occur at the same time, contribute,
with the races, to give an extraordinary animation to this period of the season at Nice. The
betting-ring feels the influence of the proximity of the gaming-tables, where everybody goes;
and yet one could so easily exchange this feverish life of play for the calmer enjoyments of
the capital cuisine of London House and an after-dinner stroll on the English Promenade or
the terraces of Monte Carlo, in dreamy contemplation of the mountains with their misty grays
and a sea and sky of such heavenly blue. But no: this charming programme is wantonly rejected:
not the finest orchestras, not the prettiest fêtes, not the newest chansonettes sung by Judie
and Jeanne Granier themselves, can turn the players for a moment from the pursuit of their
one absorbing passion. Play goes on at the Casino of Monte Carlo the livelong day, the only
relaxation from the couleur gagnante or tiers et tout being when the gamblers step across the
way to take a shot at the pigeons or a bet on the birds; for they must bet on something, if
it is but on the number of the box from which the next victim will fly. And when in the evening
the players have returned to Nice it is only to indulge the fierce passion again in playing
baccarat--the terrible Parisian baccarat--at the Massena Club or at the Mediterranean, where
the betting is even higher than at Monaco. Hundreds of thousands of francs change hands every
hour from noon to six o'clock in the morning in this gambling-hell--a hell disguised in the
colors of Paradise.

But let us fly from the perilous neighborhood and reach the nearest race-course by the fastest
train we can find. The passion for the turf is healthier than the other, and its ends not so
much in need of concealment. Unluckily, we shall not find just at this season--that is to say,
in February--anything going on excepting a few steeple-chases--some "jumping business," as
the English say rather contemptuously. In England there are certain owners, such as Lord Lonsdale,
Captain Machell, Mr. Brayley and others, who, though well known in flat-races, have also good
hunters in their stables, while the proprietors of the latter in France confine themselves
exclusively to this specialty. Perhaps the best known amongst them are the baron Jules Finot
and the marquis de St. Sauveur. Most of the members of the Jockey Club affect to look down
upon the "illegitimate" sport, as they call it. It would seem, however, that this disdain is
hardly justifiable, for as a spectacle at least a steeple-chase is certainly more dramatic
and more interesting than a flat-race. What can be finer than the sight of a dozen gentlemen
or jockeys, as the case may be, charging a brook and taking it clear in one unbroken line?
And yet, despite the attractions and excitement of the sport, and all the efforts made from
time to time by the Society of Steeple-chases to popularize it in France, it cannot as yet
be called a success. Complaint is made, as in England, of too short distances, of the insufficiency
of the obstacles, of an overstraining of the pace. The whole thing is coming to partake more
and more of the nature of a race, an essentially different thing. Field sports are not races--at
least they never ought to be. A steeple-chase can never answer the true purpose of the flat-race,
which is to prove which is the best horse, to the end that he may ultimately reproduce his
like. But nobody ever heard of "a sire calculated to get steeple-chasers". The cleverness and
the special qualities that make a good steeple-chaser are not transmitted. The best have been
horses of poor appearance, often small and unsightly, that have been given up by the trainer
as incapable of winning in flat-races. In England the winners of the "Grand National" have
had no pedigree to speak of, and have failed upon the track. Cassetête had run in nineteen
races without gaining a single one before he began his remarkable career as a hunter; Alcibiade
had been employed at Newmarket as a lad's horse; Salamander was taken out of a cart to win
the great steeple-chases at Liverpool and Warwick.

In France there is no Liverpool or Croydon or Sandown for steeple-chases: there is only an
Auteuil. The other meetings in the neighborhood of Paris--Maisons, Le Vésinet, La Marche--are
in the hands of shameless speculators like Dennetier, Oller and the rest. Poor horses, bought
in the selling races and hardly trained at all to their new business, compete at these places
for slender purses, and often with the help of dishonest tricks. Accidents, as might be expected,
are frequent, although the obstacles, with the exception of the river at La Marche, are insignificant.
But the pace is pushed to such excess that the smallest fence becomes dangerous. This last
objection, however, may be made even to the running at Auteuil, where the course is under the
judicious and honorable direction of the Society of Steeple-chases. The pace is quite too severe
for such a long stretch, strewn as it is with no less than twenty-four obstacles, and some
of them pretty serious. The weather, too, is nearly always bad at Auteuil, even at the summer
meetings, and the ill-luck of the Steeple-chase Society in this respect has become as proverbial
as the good-fortune and favoring skies that smile upon the Société d'Encouragement, its neighbor
at Longchamps. It is not to be wondered at, then, that the English do not feel at home upon
this dangerous track. They have gained but twice the great international steeple-chase founded
in 1874--the first time with Miss Hungerford in the year just mentioned, and again with Congress
in 1877. This prize, the most important of the steeple-chase purses in France, amounts to twelve
hundred sovereigns, added to a sweepstakes of twenty sovereigns each, with twelve sovereigns
forfeit--or only two sovereigns if declared by the published time--and is open to horses of
four years old and upward. It is run in the early part of June. Last year, whilst Wild Monarch,
belonging to the marquis de St. Sauveur and ridden by D'Anson, was winning the race, the splendid
stands took fire and were burned, without the loss of a single life, and even without a serious
accident, thanks to the ample width of the staircases and of the exits. These stands were the
newest and the most comfortable in the country. It is to be hoped that the society will not
allow itself to be discouraged by such a persistent run of ill-luck, but that it will continue
to pursue its work, the object of which it has declared to be "to encourage, as far as its
resources will permit, the breeding and raising of horses for service and for the army." As
the Encouragement Society rests upon the Jockey Club, so the Society of Steeple-chases finds
its support in the Cercle of the Rue Royale, commonly called the Little Club or the Moutard.
This club was reorganized after the war under the direction of the prince de Sagan, and has
made great sacrifices to bring Auteuil into fashion.

The regular racing-season in France begins on the 15th of March, and no horse that has appeared
upon any public track before this date is permitted to enter. The first event of the series
is the spring meeting at Rheims--the French Lincoln. Of the six flat-races run here, one, known
as the Derby of the East, is for two-year-olds of the previous year, with a purse of five thousand
francs. In the "Champagne" races the winner gets, besides his prize, a basket of a hundred
bottles of the sparkling wine instead of the empty "cup" that gives its name to other famous
contests. After Rheims the next meeting in course is at Longchamps, in the beginning of April,
opening with the Prix du Cadran, twenty-five thousand francs, distance forty-two hundred mètres,
for four-year-olds. Then comes the essay of horses of the year in the Trial Sweepstakes and
the Prix Daru, corresponding with the Two Thousand Guineas and the Thousand Guineas at Newmarket.
The quotation begins to take shape as the favorites for the great events of May and June stand
out more clearly. Of all the prizes--not excepting even the Grand Prix de Paris--the one most
desired by French turfmen is the French Derby, or, to call it by its official name, the Prix
du Jockey Club, the crowning event of the May meeting at Chantilly. The conditions of the Derby
are as follows: For colts and fillies of three years, distance twenty-four hundred mètres,
or a mile and a half, fifty thousand francs, or two thousand pounds sterling, with stakes added
of forty pounds for each horse--twenty-four pounds forfeit, or twenty pounds if declared out
at a fixed date; colts to carry one hundred and twenty-three pounds, and fillies one hundred
and twenty pounds. The purse last year amounted to £3863 (96,575 francs). Like the English
Derby, its French namesake is regarded as the test and gauge of the quality of the year's production.
In the year of the foundation of this important race (1836), and for the two succeeding years,
it was gained by Lord Henry Seymour's stable, whose trainer, Th. Carter, and whose stallion,
Royal Oak, both brought from England, were respectively the best trainer and the best stallion
of that time. In 1839, however, the duc d'Orléans's Romulus, foaled at the Meudon stud, put
an end to these victories of the foreigner. In 1840 the winner was Tontine, belonging to M.
Eugène Aumont, but Lord Seymour, whose horse had come in second, asserted that another horse
had been substituted for Tontine, and that under this name M. Aumont had really entered the
English filly Hérodiade, while the race was open only to colts foaled and raised in France.
A lawsuit was the result, and while the courts refused to admit Lord Seymour's claim, the racing
committee declared the mare disqualified, and M. Aumont sold his stable. In 1841, Lord Seymour
again gained the Derby with Poetess (by Royal Oak), who afterward became mother of Heroine
and of Monarque and grandmother of Gladiateur. In 1843 there was a dead heat between M. de
Pontalbra's Renonce and Prospero, belonging to the trainer Th. Carter, and, as often happens,
the worse horse--in this case it was Renonce--won the second heat. In 1848, the name of "Chantilly"
being just then too odious, the Derby was run at Versailles, and was gained by M. Lupin's Gambetti.
This same year is remarkable in the annals of the French turf for the excellence of its production.
From this period until 1853--the year of Jouvence--M. Lupin enjoyed a series of almost uninterrupted
successes. In 1855 the Derby was won by the illustrious Monarque, and the following year witnessed
the first appearance upon the turf of the now famous red and blue of Lagrange. It was Beauvais,
belonging to Madame Latache de Fay, who in 1860 carried off the coveted prize, which was won
the next year by Gabrielle d'Estrées, from the stable of the comte de Lagrange. Then for a
period of nine years the count's stable had a run of ill-luck, its horses always starting as
prime favorites and being as invariably beaten. This was Trocadéro's fate in 1867. He was a
great favorite, and had, moreover, on this occasion the assistance of his stable-companion
Mongoubert, a horse of first-rate qualities. This time, at least, the count's backers were
sure of success, but the victory that seemed within their grasp was wrested from their hands
by the unexpected prowess developed upon the field of battle by a newcomer, M. Delamarre's
Patricien. At a distance of two hundred mètres from the goal the three horses named were alone
in the race, and the struggle between them was a desperate one. It looked almost as if it might
turn out a dead heat, when Patricien, with a tremendous effort, reached the winning-post a
head in advance, after one of the finest and best-contested races ever seen at Chantilly. In
1869, however, Consul succeeded in turning the tide of adverse fortune that had set in against
the comte de Lagrange, but it was only for the moment, and it was not until 1878 that he was
again the victor, when he won with Insulaire. He repeated the success last year with Zut, whom
Goater brought in to the winning-post a length and a half ahead of the field.

Unfortunately, the winner of the French Derby can hardly ever be in good condition to contest
the great race at Epsom. These two important events are too near in point of time, and the
fatigue of the journey, moreover, puts the horse that has to make it at a disadvantage. Were
it not for this drawback it is probable that the comte de Lagrange would beat the English oftener
than he does. In May, 1878, his horse Insulaire, having just come in second in the Two Thousand
Guineas at Newmarket, left that place for home, won the French Derby on Sunday, and returned
to England in time for the Epsom Derby on Wednesday, where he came in second. He recrossed
the Channel, and the following Sunday was second again in the Grand Prix de Paris, Thurio passing
him only by a head. Making the passage again--and this was his fourth voyage within fifteen
days--he gained the Ascot Derby. It is not unlikely that if this remarkable horse had remained
permanently in the one country or the other he would have carried off the principal prizes
of the turf.

For the last three or four years the racing men have been in the habit of meeting, after the
Grand Prix de Paris, in the pretty park of La Marche, between St. Cloud and St. Germain. It
is quite a private gathering, and as elegant as a dashing turnout of some fifteen or twenty
four-in-hands and a pretty luncheon and charming flirtation can make it, and if dancing has
not yet been introduced it soon will be. Prizes in the shape of groups in bronze and paintings
and valuable weapons are awarded to the gentlemen present who may take part in the hunting
steeple-chase or the race with polo ponies or with hacks.

In 1878 a new race-course was started at Enghien, to the north of Paris. The prizes are sufficiently
large, the stands comfortable and the track is good; and these attractions, with the advantage
of the neighborhood of the Chantilly and Morlaye stables, will no doubt make Enghien a success.
Steeple-chases and hurdle-races predominate.

We can hardly close this review of turf matters in France without at least a reference to the
so-called sporting journals, but what we have to say of them can be told in two words. They
exist only in name. Any one who buys Le Sport, Le Turf, Le Jockey, Le Derby, the Revue des
Sports, etc., on the faith of their titles--nearly all English, be it observed--will be greatly
disappointed if he expects to find in them anything beyond the mere programmes of the races:
they contain no criticism worthy of the name, no accurate appreciation of the subject they
profess to treat of, and are even devoid of all interesting details relating to it. Far from
following the example of their fellows of London and New York, these sheets concern themselves
neither with hunting, shooting or fishing, nor with horse-breeding or cattle-raising, but give
us instead the valuable results of their lucubrations upon the names of the winning horses
of the future, and with such sagacity that a subscriber to one of them has made the calculation
that if he had bet but one louis upon each of the favorites recommended by his paper he would
have lost five hundred louis in the one year of his subscription.

Let us add, however, that, the press excepted, the English have nothing more to teach their
neighbors in turf matters. The Pall Mall Gazette has well said that the organization of racing
in France has taken a great deal of what is good from the English turf, and has excluded most
of what is bad. The liberality of the French Jockey Club is declared by Vanity Fair to be in
striking contrast with the starveling policy of its English namesake. The Daily Telegraph has
recently eulogized the French club for having found out how to rid the turf of the pest of
publicans and speculators and clerks of courses, and of all the riffraff that encumber and
disgrace it in England, and that make parliamentary intervention necessary. The French turf,
in fine, may be said to be inferior to the English in the number of horses, but its equal in
respect of their quality, while it must be admitted to be superior to it in the average morality
of their owners.

                          L. LEJEUNE.

FROM FAR.

    Oh, Love, come back, across the weary way
    Thou didst go yesterday--
          Dear Love, come back!

    "I am too far upon my way to turn:
    Be silent, hearts that yearn
          Upon my track."

    Oh, Love! Love! Love! sweet Love! we are undone
    If thou indeed be gone
          Where lost things are.

    "Beyond the extremest sea's waste light and noise,
    As from Ghostland, thy voice
          Is borne afar."

    Oh, Love, what was our sin that we should be
    Forsaken thus by thee?
          So hard a lot!

    "Upon your hearts my hands and lips were set--
    My lips of fire--and yet
          Ye knew me not."

    Nay, surely, Love! We knew thee well, sweet Love!
    Did we not breathe and move
          Within thy light?

    "Ye did reject my thorns who wore my roses:
    Now darkness closes
          Upon your sight."

    Oh, Love! stern Love! be not implacable:
    We loved thee, Love, so well!
          Come back to us!

    "To whom, and where, and by what weary way
    That I went yesterday,
          Shall I come thus?"

    Oh weep, weep, weep! for Love, who tarried long
    With many a kiss and song,
          Has taken wing.

    No more he lightens in our eyes like fire:
    He heeds not our desire,
          Or songs we sing.

                    PHILIP BOURKE MARSTON.

AMERICANS ABROAD.

Five-and-twenty years ago Americans had no cause to be particularly proud of the manner in
which, from a social point of view, their travelling compatriots were looked upon in Europe.
At that epoch we were still the object of what Mr. Lowell calls a "certain condescension in
foreigners." We were still the recipients at their hands of that certain half-curious, half-amused
and wholly patronizing inspection which, from the height of their civilization, they might
be expected to bestow upon a novel species of humanity, with manners different from their own,
but recently sprung into existence and notice and disporting itself in their midst.

But this sort of thing has had its day. By dint of having been able to produce, here and there,
for the edification of foreigners, a few types of American manhood and womanhood which came
up to the standard of high-breeding entertained in the Old World, and of having occasionally
dispensed hospitality, both at home and abroad, in a manner which was unexceptionable, besides
having shown other evidences in social life--not to speak of political life--of being able
to hold our own quite creditably, the "condescension" has gradually diminished in a very satisfactory
manner. It is now no longer kept alive by even the typical American traveller such as he was
when five-and-twenty years ago a familiar sight at every railway-station, in every steamer
and in every picture-gallery, museum and ruin of every town in Europe. Now-a-days everybody
in America who lays any claim to the right of being called "somebody," however small a "somebody"
it may be, has been to Europe at least once in his or her life--on a three months' Cook-excursion
tour, if in no other way. And those who have not been have had a father, mother, brother, sister,
or in any case a cousin in some degree, who has; so that there is always a European trip in
the family, so to speak. The result of all this has naturally been a certain amount of experience
concerning Europe which has tended to wellnigh exterminate the race of the typically-verdant
American traveller. Occasional specimens, with all their characteristics in full and vigorous
development, may still be met, but these are merely isolated survivors of a once widespread
family. The Americans that one meets to-day in Europe, both those who travel and those who
reside there, are of a different conformation and belong to a different type. The crudeness
which so shocked Europeans in their predecessors they have, with characteristic adaptability,
readily and gracefully outgrown. But whether they have improved in other respects, and whether,
on other grounds, we have cause to be particularly proud of our countrymen abroad at the present
day, is another question.

That Americans are constantly apologizing to foreigners for America, for its institutions,
for its social life, and for themselves as belonging to it, is a fact which no one ever thinks
of disputing. In this faculty for disparaging our own country we may flatter ourselves that
we have no equals. The Chinese may come near us in their obsequious assurances as to the utter
unworthiness of everything pertaining to them, but with the difference that they, probably,
are inwardly profoundly convinced of the perfection of all that their idea of courtesy obliges
them to abuse, and mean nothing of what they say; whereas we do mean everything we say.

The prejudice of the English, and their attempts to transport a miniature England about with
them wherever they go, furnish a frequent subject of jest to Americans on the Continent. If
the total immunity from any such feeling which characterizes the Americans themselves were
the result of breadth of ideas--if they spoke as they do because they measured the faults and
follies, the merits and advantages, of their own institutions with as impartial an eye as they
would measure those of other nations, and judged them without either malice or extenuation--we
might then have the privilege of condemning narrow-mindedness and prejudice. But we have no
such breadth of ideas. On the contrary, we have ourselves--none more so--the strongest sort
of prejudices--prejudices which prevent us as a nation from taking wide, cosmopolitan views
of things. The only difference is that with us the prejudice, instead of being in favor of
everything belonging to our own country, is, in far too many cases, against it, consequently
the most objectionable, the least excusable, of prejudices.

It is but rarely that we find a German, a Frenchman, a Spaniard, an Italian, or a Russian,
who even having expatriated himself completely for one reason or another, and after years of
absence, will not have retained some affection for his native country, some longing for it,
some feeling that it is the best place on earth after all. But among any number of Americans
who have been on European soil for any period of time, from twenty days to twenty years, those
who are burdened with any such affection, any such longing, any such feeling, might be counted
with ease. Indeed, if through some inconceivable arrangement of human affairs the Americans
abroad were to be prevented from ever returning to their own country, I imagine the majority
would bear the catastrophe with great equanimity, and, aside from the natural ties of family
and pecuniary interests that might bind them to their home, would think the permanent life
in Europe thus enforced the happiest that Fate could have bestowed upon them. For my part,
I never met but one American who was anxious to return home--a lady, strange to say--and her
chief reason seemed to be that she missed her pancakes, hot breads, etc. for breakfast. All
the others, men and women, had but one voice to express how immeasurably more to their taste
was everything in Europe--the climate, the life, the people, the country, the food, the manners,
the institutions, the customs--than anything in America.

However, all Americans in Europe are not of this class, although it includes the majority.
There is a comparatively small number who are as much impressed with the perfection of everything
American as the most ardent patriotism could desire. These people go to Europe cased in a triple
armor of self-assertion, prepared to poohpooh everything and everybody that may come under
their notice, and above all to vindicate under all circumstances their independence as free-born
American citizens by giving the world around them the benefit of their opinions upon all topics
both in and out of season. They stand before a chef-d'oeuvre of some old master and declare
in a loud, aggressive voice that they see nothing whatever to admire in it, that the bystanders
may know that the judgment of centuries will not weigh with them. They inquire with grim facetiousness,
and terrific emphasis on the pronominal adjectives, "Is this what the people in this part of
the world call a steamboat?" "Do they call that duckpond a lake?" "Is that stream what they
call a river?" And so on, in a perpetual attitude of protest against everything not so large
as their steamboats, their lakes, their rivers. When this genus of Americans abroad comes together
with the other genus--with the people who think the most wretched daub that hangs in the most
obscure corner of a European gallery, labelled with prudent indefiniteness "of the school of
----," better far than the most conscientious work by the most gifted of American artists--and
a discussion arises, as it is sure to do, on the relative merits of Europe and America, then
indeed does Greek meet Greek, and, both starting from equally false premises and with equally
false views, the cross-purposes, the rabid comparing of things between which no comparison
is possible, the amount of absurd nonsense spoken on either side, and the profound disdain
of one for the other, furnish a great deal of amusement to Europeans, but make an American
who has any self-respect suffer no small amount of mortification.

There is but one ground upon which these two classes of Americans meet in common, and that
is in their respect for titles, coronets and coats-of-arms. It is useless to deny the immense
impressiveness which this sort of thing has for the average American. Of course, if he be of
the aggressive sort he will scout the very idea of any such imputation, one of the favorite
jokes of his tasteful stock in trade being precisely to express sovereign contempt for anything
and everything smacking of nobility, and to weigh its advantages against the chink of his own
dollars and find it wanting. But this does not in the least alter the matter. The people who
inveigh the most fiercely against the pretensions of blue blood are generally, the world over,
the ones who are devoured by the most ardent retrospective ambitions for grandfathers and grandmothers;
and the Americans who cry out loudest against the hollow vanity of the European aristocracy
are generally those who have genealogical trees and coats-of-arms of authenticity more or less
questionable hanging in their back parlor, and think themselves a step removed from those among
their neighbors who boast of no such property.

It may not be pleasant for us to acknowledge to ourselves that our countrymen abroad are cankered
with toadyism and are frightful snobs; but so it is, nevertheless. The fact is very visible,
veil it as we may. The American who has not had it forced upon his attention in innumerable
ways--by the undisguised empressement of those among his compatriots who frankly spend their
whole time running after persons with titles, entertaining them and fawning upon them in every
possible manner, no more than by the intensely American Americans who profess supreme disregard
for all precedence and distinctions established by society, and yet never fail to let you know,
quite accidentally, that Count This, Baron That and Marquis the Other are their very particular
friends--has had an exceptional experience indeed.

This manner of disposing of all Americans abroad by putting them into one of these two categories
may seem somewhat sweeping, and it will be objected that there are hundreds of our countrymen
in Europe who could never come under the head of either. Granted. These hundreds undoubtedly
exist: they are made up of people of superior mind and intelligence, of people of superior
culture, of people who occupy that exceptional social position which, either through associations
of hereditary ease, refinement, wealth and elegance, or by contact with "the best" of everything
from childhood up, confers on those who belong to it very much the same outward gloss the world
over. But it is never among such exceptions that the distinctive characteristics of a nation
are to be sought. These are to be looked for in the great mass of the people. Now, the great
mass of Americans who go abroad are people of average minds, average education, average positions;
and that, thus taken as a mass, they are lamentably lacking both in good taste and dignity,
every one must admit who is in any degree familiar with the American colonies in the cities
of Europe where our countrymen congregate.

I should perhaps say, to express myself more accurately, "where our countrywomen congregate;"
for, after all, the true representatives of America in Europe are the American women. Nine-tenths
of all the American colonies consist of mothers who, having left their liege lords to their
stocks and merchandise, have come abroad "for the education of their children"--an exceedingly
elastic as well as convenient formula, which somehow always makes one think of charity that
"covereth a multitude of sins." Occasionally--once in three or four years perhaps--the husband
leaves his stocks or merchandise for a brief space of time, crosses the Atlantic and remains
with his family a month or two. Occasionally also he fails to appear altogether. I am not very
sure but that this last course is the one that foreigners expect him to pursue, and that when
he deviates from it it is not rather a surprise to them. Europeans, I fancy, are somewhat apt
to look upon the American husband as a myth. At all events, it seems to take the experience
of Thomas in many instances to convince them of his material existence. The American who is
content to have his wife and children leave him for an indefinite period ranging anywhere from
one year to ten years, and during that time enjoy the advantages of life and travel in Europe,
while he himself remains at home absorbed in his business, is a species of the genus Homo that
Europeans are at a loss to comprehend. Being so rarely seen in the flesh, he necessarily occupies
but a secondary position in their estimation: indeed, I think all American men, those of the
class named no more than those that are more frequently seen abroad, such as doctors, clergymen,
consuls, etc., may be said--some exception being made for the "leisure class" possessed of
four-in-hands and so on, and an unlimited supply of the world's goods--to be considered by
Europeans of no great significance, socially speaking. It is madame and mesdemoiselles who
are all-important. Monsieur is thought a worthy person, with some excellent qualities, such
as freedom from uncomfortable jealousies and suspicions, and both capacity and willingness
for furnishing remittances, but a person rather destitute of polish--invaluable from a domestic
point of view, from any other somewhat uninteresting. But madame and mesdemoiselles have every
possible tribute paid to their charms: their beauty, their wit, their dash and sparkle, their
independence, receive as large a share of admiration as the most insatiable among them could
desire.

It must be owned that the American spirit, tempered by European education or influences, makes
a very delightful compound. And it is astonishing to mark how soon the toning process does
its work--how soon the most objectionable American girl of the sort known as "fast," or even
"loud," softens into a very charming creature who makes the admiration bestowed upon her by
European men quite comprehensible.

That this admiration is returned is perhaps not less comprehensible. American women, as a mass,
are better educated than American men, and are particularly their superiors so far as outward
grace and polish and the general amenities of life are concerned. These qualities, in which
their countrymen are deficient, and the blander manners which accompany them, they are apt
to find well developed in European men, whatever other virtues or faults may be theirs; and
when to this fact is added the spice of novelty, the strong liking that American girls manifest
for foreigners, and which has been the cause of putting so many American youths in anything
but a benedictory frame of mind, is easily accounted for, and the marriages which so frequently
take place between our girls and European men may be explained, even on other grounds than
the common exchange of money on one side and title on the other.

Be the motive of these marriages either mutual interest or mutual inclination, in neither case
does the generally-accepted theory that they are never happy bear the test of application.
So far as my knowledge goes, the common experience is quite the reverse. The number of matches
between American girls and Europeans that turn out badly is small compared to the number of
those that are perfectly satisfactory. It is astonishing to see how many of our girls, who
have been brought up in the belief of the American woman's prerogative of absolute supremacy
in the domestic circle, when they are thus married change and seem quite content to relinquish
not a few of their ideas of perfectly untrammelled independence, and to take that more subordinate
position in matrimony which European life and customs allot to women. It is still more astonishing
to see how contentedly and cheerfully they do so when marrying men, as they often do, whose
equals in every point, were they their own countrymen, they would consider decidedly bad partis--men
with no advantages of any description, without either position, career or any visible means
of livelihood, often passably destitute of education and character as well. How they contrive
to be satisfied with their bargain in this case is a puzzle, but satisfied they are.

Marriages of this sort, where the man has absolutely nothing to offer beyond the charms of
his more or less blandly persuasive person, excite no surprise abroad. That a penniless male
fortune-hunter should marry a girl with wealth is considered in Europe at the present day not
only just, proper and quite as it should be, but rather comme il faut than otherwise. Let the
case be reversed, and a man of fortune permit himself the caprice of marrying a portionless
girl, and society cries out in horror against the mésalliance.

American women in Europe have two chief aims and occupations. The first is to obtain an entrée
into the society of the country in which they are residing, and to identify themselves with
that society: the second is to revile one another.

So far as the first aim is concerned, it is certainly most laudable, taken in one sense: the
persons who can live in the midst of a people without endeavoring to gain an insight into its
character and its customs must be possessed of an exceptionally oyster-like organization indeed.
But the majority of American women seek foreign society on other grounds than this--chiefly
from that tendency to ape everything European and to decry everything American to which I have
already alluded as being characteristic of us as a nation. England and the English are the
principal models chosen for imitation. It is marvellous to notice the fondness of American
women abroad for the English accent and manner of speech and way of thinking; how enthusiastically
they attend all the meets in Rome; how plaintively they tell one if one happens to have arrived
quite recently from home, "Really, there is no riding across country in your America, you know."
In the cities of the Continent that have large English and American colonies they attend the
English church in preference to their own. I believe it is considered more exclusive to do
so, and better form. In this mania for all things English we are not alone. John Bull happens
to be the fashion of the day quite as much on the continent of Europe as in America, and has
quite as many devoted worshippers there as among us.

Naturally, one of the chief reasons why American women have so great a liking for European
society is to be found in the fact of the far more important position that married ladies occupy
in that society than they do with us. For a woman who feels that she has still attractions
which should not be buried in obscurity, but who has found that since her marriage she has,
to all intents and purposes, been "laid upon the shelf," it is a very delightful experience
to see herself once more the object of solicitous attention, considered as one of the brilliant
central ornaments of a ballroom, not as one of its indispensable wall-decorations. The experience
seems to be so particularly pleasant to the majority of American women, indeed, that they show
the greatest disinclination to sharing it one with the other--a disinclination made manifest
by that habit of reviling each other which I mentioned as the second great aim and occupation
of our countrywomen abroad. That there should be very little kindness and fellow-feeling, and
a great deal of envy, hatred, malice and all uncharitableness among their members, is characteristic
of all foreign colonies in every country; but none certainly can, in this respect, surpass
the American colonies in Europe, at least in so far as their feminine representatives are concerned.
The extent to which these ladies carry their backbiting and slandering, and the abnormal growth
which their jealousy of one another attains, fill the masculine mind with amazement.

A lady of a certain age who had lived in Europe twenty years, and who, in addition to being
a person of great clearness and robustness of judgment, held a position, as a widow with a
comfortable competency, which made her verdict unassailable by any suspicion of its being an
interested one, spoke to me once on this subject. "In all my experience of American life in
Europe," she said, "I may safely state that I have never met more than half a dozen American
women who had anything but ill-natured remarks to make of one another. No American woman need
hope, live as she may, do as she may, say what she may, to escape criticism at the hands of
her countrywomen. The mildest manner in which they will treat her in conversation will be to
say that she is 'nobody,' 'never goes anywhere,' etc., and thus dismiss her. In every other
case it is, 'Mrs. A----? Oh yes, such a charming person! Perhaps just a little bit inclined
to put on airs, but then--Oh, a very nice little woman. I don't suppose she has ever really
been accustomed to much, you know. They say her mother was a dressmaker, but of course one
never knows how true these things may be. She does make frantic efforts to get into society
here: it is quite amusing. I think the Von Z----s have rather taken her up. She has plenty
of money to spend, oh yes. I can't see how her husband can afford to let her live in the style
she does abroad, but then that is his affair. She entertains all these people, and of course
they go to her house because she can give them some amusement.'--'Mrs. B----? Do I know anything
about her? Well, I think I do. Nice? Oh, I do not know that there is anything to be said against
her. To be sure, in Paris people did say some rather ugly things. There was a Count L----.
And I heard from a very reliable source that she was not on exactly good terms with her husband.
So, having daughters, you know, I was obliged to be prudent and rather to shun her than otherwise.
Without wishing to be ill-natured I feel inclined to advise you to do the same: I think you
will find it quite as well to do so.'--'Mrs. C----? Oh, my dear, such a coarse, common, vulgar
creature! She was never received in any sort of good society in New York. Her husband made
money one fine day, and she has come abroad and is trying to impose upon people here. She is
perfectly ignorant--no education whatever. And the daughters are horribly mauvais genre.'--'Mrs.
D----? I should call her an undesirable acquaintance. Not but what she is a very nice sort
of person--in her way--but she does make up so frightfully, and she looks so fast. Always has
a crowd of officers dangling about her. Her husband is a stick. They do say that when his relatives
came abroad last winter they would not call upon him. They were completely incensed at the
way in which he permits his wife to carry on.'--'Mrs. E----? Pray, who is Mrs. E----? and where
does she get the money to live as she does? I knew her a few years ago, when she had a thousand
a year to live on, she and both her children. And now, the toilettes she makes! And, some people
say, the debts! And, really, I don't see how it can be otherwise, knowing, as I do, that all
the members of her family are as poor as church mice. Her husband committed suicide, you know.--No!
did you never hear that? Oh yes: he was mixed up in some rather shady transactions in business,
and put an end to himself in that way.'--'Mrs. F----? Oh yes, I remember. An old thing, with
a grown-up son, who dresses as if she were fifteen. Dreadfully affected, and so silly! Moreover,
Mrs. I---- lived in the same house with her in Dresden--had the apartment above hers--and she
told me the servants said that Mrs. F---- was always in some difficulty with tradespeople.'--'Miss
G----? Is it possible you have never heard about her? Why, she ran away with a footman, or
something of the kind. Was brought back before she had reached the station, I believe; but
you can imagine the scandal! All the girls in that family are rather queer, which, considering
the stock they come from, is really not very strange,' etc. etc. etc."

In view of these facts, and of many more of the same nature, when one sees the people who come
back from Europe after an absence of a year or two unable to speak their own language fluently,
because they have heard and spoken nothing but German or French or Italian during that time,
and who cannot stand the climate because they are not used to it; when one sees the young ladies
who return home unable to take any interest in American life, and who shut themselves away
from its society, which to them is most unpolished and vapid, because they have had a European
education; when one sees the hundred follies which a glimpse of Europe will put into the heads
of people whom before one had had every reason to think sensible enough,--one feels inclined
to ask one's self the question, Are we to conclude that European life is demoralizing to Americans?
Are we to conclude that the innumerable advantages that such a life confers--the wider view
and broader knowledge of things, the softening influences gained by contact with a riper civilization,
the æsthetic tastes developed by acquaintance with older and more perfect art--are to count
as nothing, are to be outweighed by the disadvantages of the same life?

Certainly, out of a hundred Americans who go abroad ninety-nine return with what they have
lost in narrowness of experience completely offset by what they have gained in pretentious
affectation. So far from being improved in any way are they that their well-wishers are inclined
to think it would have been far better had they never gone at all.

I do not wish to draw the ultimate conclusion from all this that it would be better for Americans
were their periodical exodus to Europe to cease. Far from it. That cultivated Americans, and
Americans particularly of a more reflective than active mind, should find the relative ease,
culture and simplicity of European life more congenial to them than the restless, high-pressure
life of America, is quite natural. And if there are no interests or ties to make their presence
in their own country imperatively necessary, it is certainly a matter of option with them where
they take up their abode. There is no law, human or divine, to bind a person to live in one
certain spot when the surroundings are uncongenial to him, and when no private duty fetters
him to it, for the simple reason that he has chanced to be born there. Every one is certainly
at liberty to seek the centre that best suits him and answers to his needs. Again, there are
numbers of persons who with moderate means can live according to their taste in Europe when
it would be impossible for them to do so in America on the same amount. There are a thousand
small gratifications that people can afford themselves on a small income abroad, a thousand
small pleasures in life from which in our country they would be hopelessly debarred; and that
they should be debarred from them when escape is possible, and not only possible but most simple
and easy, would indeed be hard.

But why cannot Americans indulge this preference for life in Europe, why can they not avail
themselves of the choice if it is open to them, and yet remember that they are Americans, and
that no circumstance can absolve them from a sacred obligation to show respect for their native
country, and to stand as its citizens on their own dignity? Men and women may be conscious
of faults and weaknesses in their parents, but they are not expected to expose these weaknesses
on that account: instinctive delicacy in any one but a churl would keep him from acknowledging
any such failings to his own heart. And a similar feeling should teach us, even if our sympathies
were not with our own country, to treat it in word and deed with respect. Until we do learn
to show this respect before Europeans we must still resign ourselves to the imputation, if
they wish to make it, of crudeness, of being still sadly in want of refining.

                          ALAIN GORE.

GLIMPSES OF PORTUGAL AND THE PORTUGUESE.

The mere name of Spain calls up at once a string of flashing, barbaric pictures--Moorish magnificence
and Christian chivalry, bull-fights, boleros, serenades, tattered pride and cruel pleasure.
All these things go to form that piquant whole, half Eastern, half European, which is the Spain
of our imaginations. Our associations with the western part of the Peninsula are, on the other
hand, vague and incomplete. Vasco da Gama, the earthquake of Lisbon, port wine and Portuguese
plums are the Lusitanian products most readily called to mind. After them would come perhaps
the names of Magellan, of Prince Henry the Navigator and of the ill-fated Don Sebastian. One
poet of the country, Camoens, is as often referred to as Tasso or Ariosto. Those whose memories
go back to the European events of 1830 and thereabouts may recall the Portuguese civil wars,
the woes of Dona Maria and the dark infamy of Don Miguel. And more recently have we not heard
of the Portuguese Guide to English Conversation and relished its delicious discoveries in our
language? All these items do not, however, present a very vivid or finished picture of the
country: like the words in a dictionary, they are a trifle disconnected.

Portugal was the first station of Childe Harold's pilgrimage, but it holds no place in the
ordinary European tour of to-day. It does not connect with any of the main lines of travel
in such a manner as to beguile the tourist insensibly over its border: a deliberate start must
be made by steamer from England in order to reach Lisbon from the north. Another and probably
stronger reason for our neglect of its scenery is that it is not talked of. We go to Europe
to see places and follow up associations with which fame has already made us familiar, and,
though Portugal has had a great past of which the records are still extant, it has not been
brought to our notice by art.

The two nations living side by side on the Peninsula, though originally of the same stock and
subjected to the same influences, present more points of difference than of likeness. Their
early history is the same. Hispania and Lusitania both fell successively under the dominion
of the Romans and of the Moors, and were modified to a considerable extent by the civilization
of each. Moorish influence was predominant in Spain--Portugal retained more deeply the Roman
stamp. This is easily seen in the literature of the two countries. Spanish ballads and plays
show the Eastern delight in hyperbole, the Eastern fertility of invention: Portuguese literature
is completely classic in spirit, avoiding all exaggeration, all offences against taste, and
confining itself to classic forms, such as the pastoral, the epic and the sonnet. Many Moorish
customs survive in Portugal to this day, but they have not become so closely assimilated there
as in Spain to the character of the people. The cruelty which has always marked the Spanish
race is no part of the Portuguese national character, which is conspicuous rather for the "gentler-sexed
humanity." True, the bull-fight, that barbarous legacy of the Moors, still lingers among the
Portuguese, but the sport is pursued with no such wanton intoxication of cruelty as in the
country with which its name is now associated. On the other hand, the Roman tradition has been
preserved in Portugal more perfectly than in Italy itself: in the "fairest of Roman colonies,"
as it was once called, there will be found manners and customs which bring up more vividly
the life portrayed by the classic poets than any existing among the peasants of modern Italy.

Both Rome and Arabia stood sponsors for the land they thus endowed. The name Portugal is compounded
of the Latin portus, a "port," and the Arabic caläh, a "castle" or "fortress." The first of
these names was originally given to the town which still retains it--Oporto--one of the oldest
of Portugal, and at one time its capital.

The history of Portugal, when it separates from that of Spain, is the history of a single stupendous
achievement. A small nation raising itself in a short time to the power of a great empire,
reaching a height which to gain was incredible, to keep impossible, and at the first relaxation
of effort suddenly falling with a disastrous crash,--that is the drama of Portugal's greatness.
There was no gradual rise or decline: it mounted and fell. There is a tradition that the first
king of Portugal, Affonso Henriquez, was crowned on the battlefield with a burst of enthusiasm
on the part of the soldiers whom he was leading against the Saracens, and that on the same
day he opened his reign by the glorious victory of Ourique. Less than half a century previously
the country had been given as a fief to a young knight, Count Henry of Burgundy, on his marriage
with a daughter of the king of Castile. The Moors were overrunning it on the one hand, Castile
was eying it jealously on the other, yet Affonso Henriquez made it an independent and permanent
kingdom. This prince slaughtered Saracens and carried off honors on the field as fast as the
Cid, but his deeds were not embalmed in an epic destined to become a storehouse of poetry for
all the world. His chronicler did not come till about four centuries later, and then nearer
and vaster achievements than those of Affonso Henriquez lay ready to his pen. At the birth
of Camoens, in 1525, Portugal had gained her greatest conquests, and, if the shadows were already
falling across her power, she had still great men who were making heroic efforts to retain
it. Vasco da Gama had died within the year. Albuquerque, the hero of the Lusiado, the noblest
and most far-sighted mind in an age of great men, had been dead ten years. Camoens, like the
Greek dramatists, was soldier as well as poet: he was not alone the singer of past adventures--he
was the reporter of what took place under his own eyes. His epic was already finished before
the defeat of Don Sebastian in the battle of Alcazar put an end to the glory it celebrated,
and in dying shortly after the poet is said to have breathed a prayer of thanksgiving at being
spared the pain of surviving his country.

The period of Portuguese supremacy lasted then, altogether, less than a century. There is an
irresistible temptation to ponder over what results were lost by its sudden downfall, and to
seek therein some explanation of the strange fact that Portugal alone among the southern nations
of Europe has never had a national art. There was a moment when the foundations for it seemed
to be laid: it was the period at which early Spanish art was putting forth its first efforts,
while that of Italy was in its prime. Under Emanuel the Fortunate and his successor Portugal
was rich and powerful. Its intellect and ambition had been stimulated by the achievements of
its great navigators. There was an awakening of interest in art and letters. A school of poets
had arisen of which Camoens was to be the crown. The court, mindful of the duties of patronage,
was building new churches and convents and decorating the old ones with religious pictures,
and in Portugal religious feeling has always been peculiarly strong. Many of these pictures
are still preserved. They are not, however, of a high order of merit, and it is not even certain
that they are the work of native artists, some authorities inclining to the belief that they
were done by inferior Flemish painters visiting the country, and are therefore the lees of
the Flemish school, not the flower of a national one. Universal belief among the Portuguese
attributes them to Gran Vasco, a master whose very existence is mythical, and who if he had
lived several lives could not have painted all the works of various styles which are ascribed
to him. That the artistic sense was not lacking in the Portuguese people is abundantly shown
in their architecture, in their repoussé-work of the fifteenth century and the carvings in
wood and stone. The church and convent at Belem, the work of this period, are ornamented by
Gothic stone-work of exquisite richness and fertility of invention. The church is unfinished,
like the epoch it commemorates. To an age of activity and conquest succeeded one of gloom and
depression. The last of the kings whom the nation had leaned on, while it supported them so
loyally, had fallen at Alcazar, and in the struggle which ensued for the succession Portugal
fell an easy prey to the strongest claimant. Philip II. strengthened his claim to the vacant
throne by sending an army of twenty thousand men into the country under the command of the
duke of Alva, and the other heirs were too weak or too divided to oppose him. The discoveries
and conquests made by Portugal had laid the foundations of riches and power for other nations:
her own immediate benefit from them was over. The period of prosperous repose which may be
expected to follow one of great national activity was denied to her. When the house of Braganza
recovered its rights, the impulse to creative art was extinct.

Though it was as a maritime power that Portugal rose to its greatest height, it has been from
time immemorial an agricultural nation, and the mass of its people are engaged in tilling the
soil. They are a cheerful, industrious race, who, far from meriting Lord Byron's contemptuous
epithet of "Lusitanian boors," are gifted with a natural courtesy and refinement of manner.
A New-England farmer would be tempted to follow the poet's example and regard them with contempt:
weighed in his balance, they would certainly be found wanting. There is no public-school system
in operation, and the Portuguese farmer is not likely to be able to read or sign his name.
But the want of literature is not felt in a Southern country, where social intercourse is far
more cultivated than in our own rural districts. It is not by reading the newspapers, but by
talking matters over with his neighbor, that the Portuguese farmer obtains his sound and intelligent
views on the politics of his country. He is a great talker, taking a keen interest in all that
goes on, enjoying a joke thoroughly and addressing his comrade with all the ceremonies and
distinctions of a language which contains half a dozen different forms of address. The illiterate
peasant is no whit behind the man of culture in the purity of his Portuguese. In no country
in Europe is the language kept freer from dialect, and this notwithstanding the fact that it
is one of involved grammatical forms. In France the use of the imperfect subjunctive is given
up by the lower classes and by foreigners, but in Portugal the peasant has still deeper subtleties
of speech at the end of his tongue. Add to this that he has a vocabulary of abuse before which
the Spaniard or the California mule-driver would be silenced, and you have the extent of his
linguistic accomplishments. This profane eloquence was an art imparted no doubt by the Moors.
The refinements of syntax come from the Latin, to which Portuguese bears more affinity in form
than any other modern language.

From the Romans the Lusitanian received his first lessons in agriculture--lessons which have
never been entirely superseded. His plough was given him by the Romans, and he has not yet
seen fit to alter the pattern. The ox-cart used in town and country for all purposes of draught
is another relic preserved intact. Its wheels of solid wood are fastened to the axle, which
revolves with them, this revolution being accompanied by a chorus of inharmonious shrieks and
creaks and wails which to the foreign and prejudiced nerve is simply agonizing. Its master
hears it with a different ear: he finds it rather cheerful than otherwise, good to enliven
the oxen, to dispel the silence of lonely places and to frighten away wolves and bogies, of
which enemies he has a childish awe. Instead, therefore, of pouring oil upon this discord,
he applies lemon-juice to aggravate the sound! The cart pleases the eye of the stranger more
than his ear. When in the vintage season the upright poles forming its sides are bound together
by a wickerwork of vine branches with their large leaves, and the inside is heaped with purple
grapes, it is a goodly sight, and one which Alma-Tadema might paint as a Roman vintage, for
it is doubtless a counterfeit presentment of the grape-laden wains which moved in the season
of vintage over the Campagna. The results in both cases were the same, for the vinho verde,
a harsh but refreshing wine, made and drunk by the country-people, is made in the same way
and is probably identical with that wherewith the Latin farmer slaked his thirst. The recipe
may have descended through Lusus, the companion of Bacchus, whom tradition names as the father
of the Lusitanian. Be that as it may, the Portuguese is still favored of the wine-god. Wine
flows for him even more freely than water, which gift of Nature has to be dug for and sought
far and wide. He drinks the ruby liquid at home and carries it afield: he even shares it with
his horse, who sinks his nose, nothing loth, in its inviting depths, and neither man nor beast
shows any ill effects from this indulgence.

It is in the north-western corner of the country, in the Minho province, that the highest rural
prosperity is to be met with. This little province, scarcely as large as the State of Delaware,
but with more than four times its population, has successfully solved the problem of affording
labor and sustenance in nearly equal shares to a large number of inhabitants. Bonanza-farming
is unheard of there. The high perfection of its culture, which gives the whole province the
trim, thriving air of a well-kept garden, comes from individual labor minutely bestowed on
small surfaces. No mowing-, threshing- or other machines are used. Instead of labor-saving,
there is labor cheerfully expended--in the place of the patent mower, a patient toiler (often
of the fair sex), armed with a short, curved reaping-hook. The very water, which flows plentifully
in fountains and channels, comes not direct from heaven without the aid of man. It is coaxed
down from the hills in tedious miles of aqueduct or forced up from a great depth by a rustic
water-wheel worked by oxen, and is then distributed over the land. Except for its aridity,
the climate is kind to the small farmer: there is no long inactivity forced upon him by a cold
winter. A constant succession of crops may be raised, and all through the year he works cheerfully
and industriously, finding his ten acres enough and his curious broad hoe dexterously wielded
the equivalent of shovel and pickaxe. If ignorant of our inventions, he is intimately acquainted
with some American products. If a Yankee were to walk into a Portuguese farm-house and surprise
the family at dinner, he would be sure to see on the table two articles which, however oddly
served, would be in their essentials familiar to him--Indian meal and salt codfish. Indian
corn has long been cultivated as the principal grain: it is mixed with rye to make the bread
in every-day use. The Newfoundland cod, under the name of bacalhau, has crept far into the
affections of the nation, its lack of succulence being atoned for by a rich infusion of olive
oil, so that the native beef, cheap and good as it is, has no chance in comparison. Altogether,
the Portuguese peasant with his wine, his oil and his bacalhau fares better than most of his
class. At Christmas-tide he stakes his digestion on rebanadas, a Moorish invention--nothing
less than ambrosial flapjacks made by soaking huge slices of wheaten bread in new milk, frying
them in olive oil and then spreading them lavishly with honey.

The Portuguese can be industrious, but all work and no play is a scheme of life which would
ill accord with his social, pleasure-loving temperament. With a wisdom rare in his day and
generation, and an energy unparalleled among Southern races, he manages to combine the two.
After rising at dawn and working from twelve to fifteen hours, he does not sit down and fall
asleep, but slings a guitar over his shoulder and is off to the nearest threshing-floor to
dance a bolero. His dancing is not the more graceful for coming after hours of field-labor,
but it lacks neither activity nor picturesqueness: above all, it is the outcome of light-heartedness
and enjoyment in capering. The night air, soft yet cool, is refreshing after the intense heat
of the day: the too sudden lowering of temperature at sundown which makes the evenings unhealthy
in many Southern countries is not experienced in Portugal. Every peasant has his guitar, for
a love of music is widely diffused, and some of them not only sing but improvise. In the province
of the Minho it is not uncommon at these gatherings for a match of improvisation to be held
between two rustic bards. One takes his guitar, and in a slow, drawling recitative sings a
simple quatrain, which the other at once caps with a second in rhyme and rhythm matching the
first. Verse follows verse in steady succession, and the singer who hesitates is lost: his
rival rushes in with a tide of rhyme which carries all before it. In such primitive pleasures
the shepherds of the Virgilian eclogue indulged.

As the life of the peasant, so is that of his wife or sweetheart. She shares in the work, guiding
the oxen, cutting grass, even working on the road with hoe and basket. "Verse sweetens toil,
however rude the sound." Like Wordsworth's reaper, she sings as she works, and the day's labor
over is ready to join in the bolero. On fête-days she is arrayed in all the magnificence of
her peasant ornaments, worth, if her family is well-to-do, a hundred dollars or more--gold
pendants in her ears, large gold chains of some antique Moorish design falling in a triple
row over her gay bodice. The men wear long hooded cloaks of brown homespun, which they sometimes
retain for convenience after the rest of the peasant-dress has been thrown aside for the regulation
coat and trousers. There is no tendency to eccentricity in the national costume of Portugal,
but the Portuguese colony of Madeira have invented a singular head-gear in a tiny skull-cap
surmounted by a steeple of tightly-wound cloth, which serves as a handle to lift it by. Like
the German student's cap, it requires practice to make it adhere at the required angle. This
is a bit of coxcombry which has no match in the simple, unaffected vanity of the Portuguese.

The country is left during the greater part of the year to the exclusive occupancy of the peasantry,
the town atmosphere being more congenial in the long run to the social gentry of Portugal.
The wealthy class in Lisbon have their villas at Cintra, in which paradise of Nature and art,
with its wonderful ensemble of precipices and palaces, forest and garden scenes, they can enjoy
mountains without forsaking society. Many Oporto families own country-houses in the Minho,
and rusticate there very pleasantly for a month or two in early fall. The gentlemen have large
shooting-parties, conducted on widely-different principles from those so unswervingly adhered
to by Trollope's indefatigable sporting character, Mr. Reginald Dobbs. In a Portuguese shooting
the number of men and dogs is often totally disproportionate to that of the game, and a single
partridge may find itself the centre of an alarming volley from a dozen or more guns. The enjoyment
is not measured, however, by the success. There is a great deal of talking and laughing, and
no discontent with the day's sport is exhibited even if there be little to show for the skill
and patience expended. There is further occupation in superintending vintage and harvest, while
the orange-groves and luxuriant gardens offer plenty of resources for exercise or idleness.
Plant-life in Portugal is singularly varied even for so warm a country. To the native orange,
olive and other trees of Southern Europe have been added many exotics. The large magnolia of
our Southern States, the Japanese camellia and the Australian gum tree have made themselves
at home there, and grow as if their roots were in their native soil. Geraniums and heliotrope,
which we confine easily in flower-pots, assume a different aspect in the public gardens of
Lisbon, where the former is seen in flaming trees and hedges twenty or thirty feet high, and
the latter distributes its fragrance while covering the high walls with its spreading arms.

The grapes from which port-wine is made are all grown within the narrow compass of a mountain-valley
about twenty-seven miles long by five or six wide, where the conditions of soil and climate
most favorable to wine-culture--including a large degree of both heat and cold--are found in
perfection. Owing to its elevation the frosts in this district are tolerably severe, while
in summer the sun looks steadily down with his hot glance into the valley till its vine-clad
sides are permeated by heat. The grapes ripened there are of peculiar richness and strength.
The trade is all in the hands of a certain number of English merchants at Oporto, who buy the
grapes as they hang of the native farmers and have the wine made under their own supervision.
The wine-making is conducted in much the same manner as in other countries, a certain quantity
of spirits being added to arrest decay and ensure its preservation. All wine has passed through
the first stage of decay, fermentation, and is liable at any time to continue the course. It
may be made with little or no alcohol if it is to be drunk within the year: to ensure a longer
lease of life some antiseptic is necessary. Port is, from its richness, peculiarly liable to
decay, and will stand fortification better than sherry, which being a light wine is less in
need of it and more apt to be over-fortified. The area in which port is produced being so small,
there can be no material difference in the produce of different vineyards, but some slight
superiorities of soil or aspect have given the Vesuvio, the Raïda and a few other wines a special
reputation.

The history of port is a somewhat curious one. It is associated closely with the old English
gentleman of a bygone generation, a staunch and bigoted being who despised French wines as
he abhorred the French nation, and agreed with Doctor Johnson that claret was for boys, port
for men. The vintage of 1820 was a remarkable one in Portugal. The port made in that season
was of a peculiar strength and sweetness, in color nearly black. The old English gentleman
would acknowledge no other as genuine, and, as Nature positively refused to repeat the experiment,
the practice of dyeing port with dried elderberries and increasing the infusion of brandy to
impart strength and flavor was resorted to. It was successful for some time, but after a while
the secret oozed out, and the public began to receive the garnet-hued liquid again into favor,
and to find, with Douglas Jerrold, that it preferred the old port to the elder. The elderberry
is not sufficiently common in Portugal to make the continuation of this process popular with
wine-makers. At present port is tolerably free from adulteration, though its casks and those
of an inferior red wine of Spain after voyaging to England sometimes find their contents a
little mixed.

Oporto is the seat of the wine-trade, and its huge warehouses are filled with stores of port
ripening to a good old age, when the garnet will be exchanged for a dark umber tint. A handsome,
thriving city is Oporto, mounting in terraces up the slope of a steep hill. A fine quay runs
the length of the town along the Douro, and here the active life of Oporto is mainly concentrated.
Any stranger watching this stir of movement and color will be struck by the prominent position
which women fill in the busy crowd. The men do not absorb all branches of labor. Besides the
water-carriers, market-women and fruit-vendors there may be seen straight, stalwart lasses
acting as portresses to convey loads to and from the boats which are fastened to the river-wall.
Many of the servants and other laborers through Portugal come from Galicia, the inhabitants
of that Spanish province enjoying a reputation for honesty and faithful service combined with
stupidity.

A sad contrast to the fertility of the Minho is presented by the country opposite Lisbon and
the adjoining province of Alemtejo. This Portuguese campagna was in Roman days a fertile plain
covered with golden wheat-fields. Now it is a barren, melancholy waste, producing only ruins.
It is in and about this region that the most important Roman remains in the country are to
be found. The soil in the neighborhood of Evora is rich in coins and other relics, and Evora
has, besides its great aqueduct, the massive pillars of a temple to Diana, which, sad to say,
was once put to ignoble use as a slaughter-house. The ruins of Troia have escaped desecration,
if they have not obtained the care and study which they merit. Lying on a low tongue of land
which projects into the bay of Setubal, the city of Troia is buried, not in Pompeian lava,
but in deep mounds of sand, accumulated there by the winds and waves. A tremendous storm in
1814 washed away a part of this sand and revealed something of its treasure, but it was not
till 1850 that the hint was followed up by antiquaries and a regular digging made. A large
Roman house was uncovered, together with a vast débris of marble columns, mosaic pavements,
baths, urns, and other appurtenances of Roman existence. The excavations have been far from
thorough; the peninsular Troy still awaits its Schliemann. The name Troia was probably bestowed
by Portuguese antiquaries of the Renaissance period, who mention it thus in their writings.
According to Roman records, the city flourished about 300 A.D. as Cetobriga.

We must return to the Minho province--still the most representative section of Portugal--for
monuments of Portuguese antiquity. Guimaraens is the oldest town of purely native growth, and
is closely associated with the life of Affonso Henriquez. The massive castle in which he was
born, and the church which witnessed the christening of the first king of Portugal, are still
standing: the old walls of the town date back to the time of the hero; and not far off is the
field where he fought the battle which gained him his independence at eighteen. Within a few
miles of Guimaraens is Braga, celebrated for centuries as a stronghold of the Church. Its Gothic
cathedral is of grand proportions, containing a triple nave, and belongs to the thirteenth
century. The church treasures shut up in its sanctuary are among the richest in the Peninsula.

Portugal presents the curious spectacle of a country in which the customs of antiquity have
lasted as long as its monuments. In a certain way the former are the more impressive. As some
little familiar trait will sometimes give a fresher insight into a great man than the more
important facts of his biography, so the ploughing, harvesting and singing of a Portuguese
peasant, with their bucolic simplicity, bring the life of the ancients a little nearer to us
than the sight of their great aqueducts and columns. But the nineteenth century is striking
the death-blow of the bucolic very fast, the world over, and Portugal is awake and bestirring
herself--not the less effectively that she is making no noise about it. Nevertheless, she is
becoming better known. Mr. Oswald Crawfurd, the English consul at Oporto, who has lived in
Portugal for many years, is writing about it from the best point of view, half within, half
without. His book of travels published under the pseudonym of Latouche, and a volume entitled
Portugal, Old and New, recently issued under his own name, throw a strong, clear light upon
the country and its inhabitants. Another sympathetic and entertaining traveller is Lady Jackson,
the author of Fair Lusitania.

The Portugal of Mr. Crawfurd and Lady Jackson is a different land from that which Southey,
Byron and other English celebrities visited at the beginning of this century: it is not the
same which Wordsworth's daughter, Mrs. Quillinan, travelled through on horseback in 1837, making
light of inconveniences and looking at everything with kind, frank eyes. Lisbon is no longer
a beautiful casket filled with dirt and filth, but a clean, bright and active city, and Portugal
is no longer a sleeping land, but a well-governed country, which will probably be hindered
by its small natural proportions, but not by any sluggishness or incapacity of its people,
from taking a high place among European nations.

A GRAVEYARD IDYL.

In the summer of 187-, when young Doctor Putnam was recovering from an attack of typhoid fever,
he used to take short walks in the suburbs of the little provincial town where he lived. He
was still weak enough to need a cane, and had to sit down now and then to rest. His favorite
haunt was an old-fashioned cemetery lying at the western edge of the alluvial terrace on which
the town is built. The steep hillside abuts boldly on the salt marsh. One of the cemetery-paths
runs along the brink of the hill; and here, on a wooden bench under a clump of red cedars,
Putnam would sit for hours enjoying the listless mood of convalescence. Where the will remains
passive, the mind, like an idle weathercock, turns to every puff of suggestion, and the senses,
born new from sickness, have the freshness and delicacy of a child's. It soothed his eye to
follow lazily the undulations of the creek, lying like the folds of a blue silk ribbon on the
flat ground of the marsh below. He watched the ebbing tide suck down the water from the even
lines of trenches that sluiced the meadows till the black mud at their bottom glistened in
the sun. The opposite hills were dark with the heavy foliage of July. In the distance a sail
or two speckled the flashing waters of the bay, and the lighthouse beyond bounded the southern
horizon.

It was a quiet, shady old cemetery, not much disturbed by funerals. Only at rare intervals
a fresh heap of earth and a slab of clean marble intruded with their tale of a new and clamorous
grief among the sunken mounds and weatherstained tombstones of the ancient sleepers for whom
the tears had long been dried. Now and then a mourner came to put flowers on a grave; now and
then one of the two or three laborers who kept the walks and shrubberies in order would come
along the path by Putnam's bench, trundling a squeaking wheelbarrow; sometimes a nurse with
a baby-carriage found her way in. But generally the only sounds to break the quiet were the
songs of birds, the rumble of a wagon over the spile bridge across the creek and the whetting
of scythes in the water-meadows, where the mowers, in boots up to their waists, went shearing
the oozy plain and stacking up the salt hay.

One afternoon Putnam was in his accustomed seat, whistling softly to himself and cutting his
initials into the edge of the bench. The air was breathless, and the sunshine lay so hot on
the marshes that it seemed to draw up in a visible steam a briny incense which mingled with
the spicy smell of the red cedars. Absorbed in reverie, he failed to notice how the scattered
clouds that had been passing across the sky all the afternoon were being gradually reinforced
by big fluffy cumuli rolling up from the north, until a rumble overhead and the rustle of a
shower in the trees aroused him.

In the centre of the grounds was an ancient summer-house standing amidst a maze of flower-beds
intersected by gravel-walks. This was the nearest shelter, and, as the rain began to patter
smartly, Putnam pocketed his knife, turned up his coat-collar and ran for it. Arrived at the
garden-house, he found there a group of three persons, driven to harbor from different parts
of the cemetery. The shower increased to a storm, the lattices were lashed by the rain and
a steady stream poured from the eaves. The althæa and snowberry bushes in the flower-pots,
and even the stunted box-edges along the paths, swayed in the wind. It grew quite dark in the
summer-house, shaded by two or three old hemlocks, and it was only by the lightning-flashes
that Putnam could make out the features of the little company of refugees. They stood in the
middle of the building, to avoid the sheets of rain blown in at the doors in gusts, huddling
around a pump that was raised on a narrow stone platform--not unlike the daughters of Priam
clustered about the great altar in the penetralia: Præcipites atra ceu tempestate columbæ.

They consisted of a young girl, an elderly woman with a trowel and watering-pot, and a workman
in overalls, who carried a spade and had perhaps been interrupted in digging a grave. The platform
around the pump hardly gave standing room for a fourth. Putnam accordingly took his seat on
a tool-chest near one of the entrances, and, while the soft spray blew through the lattices
over his face and clothes, he watched the effect of the lightning-flashes on the tossing, dripping
trees of the cemetery-grounds.

Soon a shout was heard and down one of the gravel-walks, now a miniature river, rushed a Newfoundland
dog, followed by a second man in overalls. Both reached shelter soaked and lively. The dog
distributed the contents of his fur over our party by the pump, nosed inquiringly about, and
then subsided into a corner. Second laborer exchanged a few words with first laborer, and melted
into the general silence. The slight flurry caused by their arrival was only momentary, while
outside the storm rose higher and inside it grew still darker. Now and then some one said something
in a low tone, addressed rather to himself than to the others, and lost in the noise of the
thunder and rain.

But in spite of the silence there seemed to grow up out of the situation a feeling of intimacy
between the members of the little community in the summer-house. The need of shelter--one of
the primitive needs of humanity--had brought them naturally together and shut them up "in a
tumultuous privacy of storm." In a few minutes, when the shower should leave off, their paths
would again diverge, but for the time being they were inmates and held a household relation
to one another.

And so it came to pass that when it began to grow lighter and the rain stopped, and the sun
glanced out again on the reeking earth and saturated foliage, conversation grew general.

"Gracious sakes!" said the woman with the trowel and watering-pot as she glanced along the
winding canals that led out from the summer-house--"jest see the water in them walks!"

"Gol! 'tis awful!" murmured the Irishman with the spade. "There'll be a fut of water in the
grave, and the ould mon to be buried the morning!"

"Ah, they had a right to put off the funeral," said the other workman, "and not be giving the
poor corp his death of cold."

"'Tis warrum enough there where the ould mon's gone, but 'tis cold working for a poor lad like
mesilf in the bottom of a wet grave. Gol! 'tis like a dreen." With that he shouldered his spade
and waded reluctantly away.

Second laborer paused to light his dhudeen, and then disappeared in the opposite direction,
his Newfoundland taking quite naturally to the deepest puddles in their course.

"Hath this fellow no feeling of his business?" asked Putnam, rising and sauntering up to the
pump. The question was meant more for the younger than the elder of the two women, but the
former paid no heed to it, and the latter, by way of answer, merely glanced at him suspiciously
and said "H'm!" She was unlocking the tool-chest on which he had been sitting, and now raised
the lid, stowed away her trowel and watering-pot, locked the chest again and put the key in
her pocket, with the remark, "I guess I hain't got any more use for a sprinkle-pot to-day."

"It is rather de trop," said Putnam.

The old woman looked at him still more distrustfully, and then, drawing up her skirts, showed
to his great astonishment a pair of india-rubber boots, in which she stumped away through the
water and the mud, leaving in the latter colossal tracks which speedily became as pond-holes
in the shallower bed of the stream. The younger woman stood at the door, gathering her dress
about her ankles and gazing irresolutely at these frightful vestigia which gauged all too accurately
the depth of the mud and the surface-water above it.

"They look like the fossil bird-tracks in the Connecticut Valley sandstone," said Putnam, following
the direction of her eyes.

These were very large and black. She turned them slowly on the speaker, a tallish young fellow
with a face expressive chiefly of a good-natured audacity and an alertness for whatever in
the way of amusement might come within range. Her look rested on him indifferently, and then
turned back to the wet gravel.

Putnam studied for a moment the back of her head and her figure, which was girlishly slender
and clad in gray. "How extraordinary," he resumed, "that she should happen to have rubber boots
on!"

"She keeps them in the tool-chest. The cemetery-man gives her a key," she replied after a pause,
and as if reluctantly. Her voice was very low and she had the air of talking to herself.

"Isn't that a rather queer place for a wardrobe? I wonder if she keeps anything else there
besides the boots and the trowel and the 'sprinkle-pot'?"

"I believe she has an umbrella and some flower-seeds."

"Now, if she only had a Swedish cooking-box and a patent camp-lounge," said Putnam laughing,
"she could keep house here in regular style."

"She spends a great deal of time here: her children are all here, she told me."

"Well, it's an odd taste to live in a burying-ground, but one might do worse perhaps. There's
nothing like getting accustomed gradually to what you've got to come to. And then if one must
select a cemetery for a residence, this isn't a bad choice. Have you noticed what quaint old
ways they have about it? At sunset the sexton rings a big bell that hangs in the arch over
the gateway: he told me he had done it every day for twenty years. It's not done, I believe,
on the principle of firing a sunset gun, but to let people walking in the grounds know the
gate is to be shut. There's a high stone wall, you know, and somebody might get shut in all
night. Think of having to spend the night here!"

"I have spent the night here often," she answered, again in an absent voice and as if murmuring
to herself.

"You have?" exclaimed Putnam. "Oh, you slept in the tool-chest, I suppose, on the old lady's
shake-down."

She was silent, and he began to have a weird suspicion that she had spoken in earnest. "This
is getting interesting," he said to himself; and then aloud, "You must have seen queer sights.
Of course, when the clock struck twelve all the ghosts popped out and sat on their respective
tombstones. The ghosts in this cemetery must be awfully old fellows. It doesn't look as if
they had buried any one here for a hundred and thirty-five years. I've often thought it would
be a good idea to inscribe Complet over the gate, as they do on a Paris omnibus."

"You speak very lightly of the dead," said the young girl in a tone of displeasure and looking
directly at him.

Putnam felt badly snubbed. He was about to attempt an explanation, but her manner indicated
that she considered the conversation at an end. She gathered up her skirts and prepared to
leave the summer-house. The water had soaked away somewhat into the gravel.

"Excuse me," said Putnam, advancing desperately and touching his hat, "but I notice that your
shoes are thin and the ground is still very wet. I'm going right over to High street, and if
I can send you a carriage or anything--"

"Thank you, no: I sha'n't need it;" and she stepped off hastily down the walk.

Putnam looked after her till a winding of the path took her out of sight, and then started
slowly homeward. "What the deuce could she mean," he pondered as he walked along, "about spending
the night in the cemetery? Can she--no she can't--be the gatekeeper's daughter and live in
the gate-house? Anyway, she's mighty pretty."

His mother and his maiden aunt, who with himself made up the entire household, received him
with small scoldings and twitterings of anxiety. They felt his wet clothes, prophesied a return
of his fever and forced him to go immediately to bed, where they administered hot drinks and
toast soaked in scalded milk. He lay awake a long time, somewhat fatigued and excited. In his
feeble condition and in the monotony which his life had assumed of late the trifling experience
of the afternoon took on the full proportions of an adventure. He thought it over again and
again, but finally fell asleep and slept soundly. He awoke once, just at dawn, and lay looking
through his window at a rosy cloud which reposed upon an infinite depth of sky, motionless
as if sculptured against the blue. A light morning wind stirred the curtains and the scent
of mignonette floated in from the dewy garden. He had that confused sense of anticipation so
common in moments between waking and sleeping, when some new, pleasant thing has happened,
or is to happen on the morrow, which the memory is too drowsy to present distinctly. Of this
pleasant, indistinct promise that auroral cloud seemed somehow the omen or symbol, and watching
it he fell asleep again. When he next awoke the sunlight of mid-forenoon was flooding the chamber,
and he heard his mother's voice below stairs as she sat at her sewing.

In the afternoon he started on his customary walk, and his feet led him involuntarily to the
cemetery. As he traversed the path along the edge of the hill he saw in one of the grave-lots
the heroine of his yesterday's encounter, and a sudden light broke in on him: she was a mourner.
And yet how happened it that she wore no black? There was a wooden railing round the enclosure,
and within it a single mound and a tombstone of fresh marble. A few cut flowers lay on the
grave. She was sitting in a low wicker chair, her hands folded in her lap and her eyes fixed
vacantly on the western hills. Putnam now took closer note of her face. It was of a brown paleness.
The air of hauteur given it by the purity of the profile and the almost insolent stare of the
large black eyes was contradicted by the sweet, irresolute curves of the mouth. At present
her look expressed only a profound apathy. As he approached her eyes turned toward him, but
seemingly without recognition. Diffidence was not among Tom Putnam's failings: he felt drawn
by an unconquerable sympathy and attraction to speak to her, even at the risk of intruding
upon the sacredness of her grief.

"Excuse me, miss," he began, stopping in front of her, "but I want to apologize for what I
said yesterday about--about the cemetery. It must have seemed very heartless to you, but I
didn't know that you were in mourning when I spoke as I did."

"I have forgotten what you said," she answered.

"I am glad you have," said Putnam, rather fatuously. There seemed really nothing further to
say, but as he lingered for a moment before turning away a perverse recollection surprised
him, and he laughed out loud.

She cast a look of strong indignation at him, and rose to her feet.

"Oh, I ask your pardon a thousand times," he exclaimed reddening violently. "Please don't think
that I was laughing at anything to do with you. The fact is that last idiotic speech of mine
reminded me of something that happened day before yesterday. I've been sick, and I met a friend
on the street who said, 'I'm glad you're better;' and I answered, 'I'm glad that you're glad
that I'm better;' and then he said, 'I'm glad that you're glad that I'm glad that you're better'--like
the House that Jack Built, you know--and it came over me all of a sudden that the only way
to continue our conversation gracefully would be for you to say, 'I'm glad that you're glad
that I've forgotten what you said yesterday.'"

She had listened impatiently to this naïve and somewhat incoherent explanation, and she now
said, "I wish you would go away. You see that I am alone here and in trouble. I can't imagine
what motive you can have for annoying me in this way," her eyes filling with angry tears.

Putnam was too much pained by the vehemence of her language to attempt any immediate reply.
His first impulse was to bow and retire without more words. But a pertinacity which formed
one of his strongest though perhaps least amiable traits countermanded his impulse, and he
said gravely, "Certainly, I will go at once, but in justice to myself I must first assure you
that I didn't mean to intrude upon you or annoy you in any way."

She sank down into her chair and averted her face.

"You say," he continued, "that you are in trouble, and I beg you to believe that I respect
your affliction, and that when I spoke to you just now it was simply to ask pardon for having
hurt your feelings yesterday, without meaning to, by my light mention of the dead. I've been
too near death's door myself lately to joke about it." He paused, but she remained silent.
"I'm going away now," he said softly. "Won't you say that you excuse me, and that you haven't
any hard feelings toward me?"

"Yes, oh yes," she answered wearily: "I have no feelings. Please go away."

Putnam raised his hat respectfully, and went off down the pathway. On reaching the little gate-house
he sat down to rest on a bench before the door. The gatekeeper was standing on the threshold
in his shirt-sleeves, smoking a pipe. "A nice day after the rain, sir," he began.

"Yes, it is."

"Have you any folks here, sir?"

"No, no one. But I come here sometimes for a stroll."

"Yes, I've seen you about. Well, it's a nice, quiet place for a walk, but the grounds ain't
kep' up quite the shape they used to be: there ain't so much occasion for it. Seems as though
the buryin' business was dull, like pretty much everything else now-a-days."

"Yes, that's so," replied Putnam absently.

The gatekeeper spat reflectively upon the centre of the doorstep, and resumed: "There's some
that comes here quite reg'lar, but they mostly have folks here. There's old Mrs. Lyon comes
very steady, and there's young Miss Pinckney: she's one of the most reg'lar."

"Is that the young lady in gray, with black eyes?"

"That's she."

"Who is she in mourning for?"

"Well, she ain't exactly in mourning. I guess, from what they say, she hain't got the money
for black bunnets and dresses, poor gal! But it's her brother that's buried here--last April.
He was in the hospital learning the doctor's business when he was took down."

"In the hospital? Was he from the South, do you know?"

"Well, that I can't say: like enough he was."

"Did you say that she is poor?"

"So they was telling me at the funeral. It was a mighty poor funeral too--not more'n a couple
of hacks. But you can't tell much from that, with the fashions now-a-days: some of the richest
folks buries private like. You don't see no such funerals now as they had ten years back. I've
seen fifty kerridges to onst a-comin' in that gate," waving his pipe impressively toward that
piece of architecture, "and that was when kerridge-hire was half again as high as it is now.
She must have spent a goodly sum in green-house flowers, though: fresh b[=o]quets 'most every
day she keeps a-fetchin'."

"Well, good-day," said Putnam, starting off.

"Good-day, sir."

Putnam had himself just completed his studies at the medical college when attacked by fever,
and he now recalled somewhat vaguely a student of the name of Pinckney, and remembered to have
heard that he was a Southerner. The gatekeeper's story increased the interest which he was
beginning to feel in his new acquaintance, and he resolved to follow up his inauspicious beginnings
to a better issue. He knew that great delicacy would be needed in making further approaches,
and so decided to keep out of her sight for a time. In the course of the next few days he ascertained,
by visits to the cemetery and talks with the keeper, that she now seldom visited her brother's
grave in the forenoon, although during the first month after his death she had spent all her
days and some of her nights beside it.

"I hadn't the heart, sir, to turn her out at sundown, accordin' to the regulations; so I'd
leave the gate kinder half on the jar, and she'd slip out when she had a mind to."

Putnam read the inscription on the tombstone, which ran as follows: "To the Memory of Henry
Pinckney. Born October 29th, 1852. Died April 27th, 187-;" and under this the text, "If thou
have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him." He noticed with a sudden twinge of
pity that the flowers on the grave, though freshly picked every day, were wild-flowers--mostly
the common field varieties, with now and then a rarer blossom from wood or swamp, and now and
then a garden flower. He gathered from this that the sister's purse was running low, and that
she spent her mornings in collecting flowers outside the city. His imagination dwelt tenderly
upon her slim, young figure and mourning face passing through far-away fields and along the
margins of lonely creeks in search of some new bloom which grudging Nature might yield her
for her sorrowful needs. Meanwhile he determined that the shrine of her devotion should not
want richer offerings. There was a hot-house on the way from his home to the cemetery, and
he now stopped there occasionally of a morning and bought a few roses to lay upon the mound.
This continued for a fortnight. He noticed that his offerings were left to wither undisturbed,
though the little bunches of field flowers were daily renewed as before.

In spite of the funereal nature of his occupation his spirits in these days were extraordinarily
high. His life, so lately escaped from the shadows of death, seemed to enjoy a rejuvenescence
and to put forth fresh blossoms in the summer air. As he sat under the cedars and listened
to the buzzing of the flies that frequented the shade, the unending sound grew to be an assurance
of earthly immortality. His new lease of existence prolonged itself into a fee simple, and
even in presence of the monuments of decay his future, filled with bright hazy dreams, melted
softly into eternity. But one morning as he approached the little grave-lot with his accustomed
offerings he looked up and saw the young girl standing before him. Her eyes were fixed on the
flowers in his hand. He colored guiltily and stood still, like a boy caught robbing an orchard.
She looked both surprised and embarrassed, but said at once, "If you are the gentleman who
has been putting flowers on my brother's grave, I thank you for his sake, but--"

She paused, and he broke in: "I ought to explain, Miss Pinckney, that I have a better right
than you think, perhaps, to bring these flowers here: I was a fellow-student with your brother
in the medical school."

Her expression changed immediately. "Oh, did you know my brother?" she asked eagerly.

He felt like a wretched hypocrite as he answered, "Yes, I knew him, though not intimately exactly.
But I took--I take--a very strong interest in him."

"Every one loved Henry who knew him," she said, "but his class have all been graduated and
gone away, and he made few friends, because he was so shy. No one comes near him now but me."

He was silent. She walked to the grave, and he followed, and they stood there without speaking.
It did not seem to occur to her to ask why he had not mentioned her brother at their former
interview. She was evidently of an unsuspecting nature, or else all other impressions were
forgotten and absorbed in the one thought of her bereavement. After a glance at her Putnam
ventured to lay his roses reverently upon the mound. She held in her hand a few wild-flowers
just gathered. These she kissed, and dropped them also on the grave. He understood the meaning
of her gesture and was deeply moved.

"Poor little, dull-colored things!" she said, looking down at them.

"They are a thousand times more beautiful than mine," he exclaimed passionately. "I am ashamed
of those heartless affairs: anybody can buy them."

"Oh no: my brother was very fond of roses. Perhaps you remember his taste for them?" she inquired
innocently.

"I--I don't think he ever alluded to them. The atmosphere of the medical college was not very
æsthetic, you know."

"At first I used to bring green-house flowers," she continued, without much heeding his answer,
"but lately I haven't been able to afford them except on Sundays. Sundays I bring white ones
from the green-house."

She had seated herself in her wicker chair, and Putnam, after a moment's hesitation, sat down
on the low railing near her. He observed among the wild plants that she had gathered the mottled
leaves and waxy blossoms of the pipsissewa and its cousin the shinleaf.

"You have been a long way to get some of those," he said: "that pipsissewa grows in hemlock
woods, and the nearest are several miles from here."

"I don't know their names. I found them in a wood where I used to walk sometimes with my brother.
He knew all their names. I went there very early this morning, when the dew was on them."

"'Flowers that have on them the cold dews of the night are strewings fittest for graves,'"
said Putnam in an undertone.

Her face had assumed its usual absent expression, and she seemed busy with some memory and
unconscious of his presence. He recalled the latter to her by rising and saying, "I will bid
you good-morning now, but I hope you will let me come and sit here sometimes if it doesn't
disturb you. I have been very sick myself lately: I was near dying of the typhoid fever. I
think it does me good to come here."

"Did you have the typhoid? My brother died of the typhoid."

"May I come sometimes?"

"You may come if you wish to visit Henry. But please don't bring any more of those expensive
flowers. I suppose it is selfish in me, but I can't bear to have any of his friends do more
for him than I can."

"I won't bring any more, of course, if it troubles you, and I thank you very much for letting
me come. Good-morning, Miss Pinckney." He bowed and walked away.

Putnam availed himself discreetly of the permission given. He came occasionally of an afternoon,
and sat for an hour at a time. Usually she said little. Her silence appeared to proceed not
from reserve, but from dejection. Sometimes she spoke of her brother. Putnam learned that he
had been her only near relative. Their parents had died in her childhood, and she had come
North with her brother when he entered the medical school. From something that she once said
Putnam inferred that her brother had owned an annuity which died with him, and that she had
been left with little or nothing. They had few acquaintances in the North, almost none in the
city. An aunt in the South had offered her a home, and she was going there in the fall. She
looked forward with dread to the time of her departure.

"It will be so cruel," she said, "to leave my poor boy all alone here among strangers, and
I never away from him before."

"Don't think of it now," he answered, "and when you are gone I will come here often and see
to everything."

Her bereavement had evidently benumbed all her faculties and left her with a slight hold on
life. She had no hopes or wishes for the future. In alluding to her brother she confused her
tenses, speaking of him sometimes in the past, and sometimes in the present as of one still
alive. Putnam felt that in a girl of her age this mood was too unnatural to last, and he reckoned
not unreasonably on the reaction that must come when her youth began again to assert its rights.
He was now thoroughly in love, and as he sat watching her beautiful abstracted face he found
it hard to keep back some expression of tenderness. Often, too, it was difficult for him to
tone down his spirits to the proper pitch of respectful sympathy with her grief. His existence
was golden with new-found life and hope: into the shadow that covered hers he could not enter.
He could only endeavor to draw her out into the sunshine once more.

One day the two were sitting, as usual, in silence or speaking but rarely. It was a day in
the very core of summer, and the life of Nature was at its flood. The shadows of the trees
rested so heavy and motionless on the grass that they appeared to sink into it and weigh it
down like palpable substances.

"I feel," said Putnam suddenly, "as though I should live for ever."

"Did you ever doubt it?" she asked.

"Oh, I mean here--ici bas--in the body. I can't conceive of death or of a spiritual existence
on such a day as this."

"There is nothing here to live for," she said wearily. Presently she added, "This hot glare
makes me sick: I wish those men would stop hammering on the bridge. I wish I could die and
get away into the dark."

Putnam paused before replying. He had never heard her speak so impatiently. Was the revulsion
coming? Was she growing tired of sorrow? After a minute he said, "Ah, you don't know what it
is to be a convalescent and lie for months in a darkened room listening to the hand-organ man
and the scissors-grinder, and the fellow that goes through the street hallooing 'Cash paid
for rags!' It's like having a new body to get the use of your limbs again and come out into
the sunshine."

"Were you very sick?" she inquired with some show of interest.

He remembered with some mortification that he had told her so once or twice before. She had
apparently forgotten it. "Yes, I nearly died."

"Were you glad to recover?"

"Well, I can't remember that I had any feelings in particular when I first struck the up-track.
It was hard work fighting for life, and I don't think I cared much one way or the other. But
when I got well enough to sit up it began to grow interesting. I used to sit at the window
in a very infantile frame of mind and watch everything that went by. It wasn't a very rowdy
life, as the prisoner in solitary confinement said to Dickens. We live in a back street, where
there's not much passing. The advent of the baker's cart used to be the chief excitement. It
was painted red and yellow, and he baked very nice leaf-cookies. My mother would hang a napkin
in the door-knocker when she wanted him to stop; and as I couldn't see the knocker from my
window, I used to make bets with Dummy as to whether the wagon would stop or not."

"Your mother is living, then?"

"Yes: my father died when I was a boy."

She asked no further questions, but a few minutes after rose and said, "I think I will go now.
Good-evening."

He had never before outstayed her. He looked at his watch and found that it was only half-past
four.

"I hope," he began anxiously, "that you are not feeling sick: you spoke just now of being oppressed
by the heat. Excuse me for staying so long."

"Oh no," she answered, "I'm not sick. I reckon I need a little rest. Good-evening."

Putnam lingered after she was gone. He found his way to his old bench under the cedars and
sat there for a while. He had not occupied this seat since his first meeting with Miss Pinckney
in the summer-house, and the initials which he had whittled on its edge impressed him as belonging
to some bygone stage of his history. This was the first time that she had questioned him about
himself. His sympathy had won her confidence, but she had treated him hitherto in an impersonal
way, as something tributary to her brother's memory, like the tombstone or the flowers on his
grave. The suspicion that he was seeking her for her own sake had not, so far as Putnam could
discover, ever entered her thoughts.

But in the course of their next few interviews there came a change in her behavior. The simplicity
and unconsciousness of her sorrow had become complicated with some other feeling. He caught
her looking at him narrowly once or twice, and when he looked hard at her there was visible
in her manner a soft agitation--something which in a girl of more sanguine complexion might
have been interpreted as a blush. She sometimes suffered herself to be coaxed a little way
into talking of things remote from the subject of her sorrow. Occasionally she questioned Putnam
shyly about himself, and he needed but slight encouragement to wax confidential. She listened
quietly to his experiences, and even smiled now and then at something that he said. His heart
beat high with triumph: he fancied that he was leading her slowly up out of the Valley of the
Shadow of Death.

But the upward path was a steep one. She had many sudden relapses and changes of mood. Putnam
divined that she felt her grief loosening its tight hold on her and slipping away, and that
she clung to it as a consecrated thing with a morbid fear of losing it altogether. There were
days when her demeanor betokened a passionate self-reproach, as though she accused herself
secretly of wronging her brother and profaning his tomb in allowing more cheerful thoughts
to blunt the edge of her bereavement. He remarked also that her eyes were often red from weeping.
There sometimes mingled with her remorse a plain resentment toward himself. At such times she
would hardly speak to him, and the slightest gayety or even cheerfulness on his part was received
as downright heartlessness. He made a practice, therefore, of withdrawing at once whenever
he found her in this frame of mind.

One day they had been sitting long together. She had appeared unusually content, but had spoken
little. The struggle in her heart had perhaps worn itself out for the present, and she had
yielded to the warm current of life and hope which was bearing her back into the sunshine.
Suddenly the elderly woman who had formed one of the company in the summer-house on the day
of the thunderstorm passed along the walk with her trowel and watering-pot. She nodded to Miss
Pinckney, and then, pausing opposite the pair, glanced sharply from one to the other, smiled
significantly and passed on. This trifling incident aroused Putnam's companion from her reverie:
she looked at him with a troubled expression and said, "Do you think you ought to come here
so much?"

"Why not?"

"I don't know. How well did you know my brother Henry?"

"If I didn't know him so very intimately when he was living, I feel that I know him well now
from all that you have told me about him. And, if you will pardon my saying so, I feel that
I know his sister a little too, and have some title to her acquaintance."

"You have been very kind, and I am grateful for it, but perhaps you ought not to come so much."

"I'm sorry if I have come too much," rejoined Putnam bitterly, "but I shall not come much more.
I am going away soon. The doctor says I am not getting along fast enough and must have change
of air. He has ordered me to the mountains."

There was silence for a few minutes. He was looking moodily down at the turf, pulling a blade
of grass now and then, biting it and throwing it away.

"I thank you very much for your sympathy and kindness," she said at length, rising from her
chair; "and I hope you will recover very fast in the mountains. Good-bye."

She extended her hand, which Putnam took and held. It was trembling perceptibly. "Wait a moment,"
he said. "Before I go I should like to show some little mark of respect to your brother's memory.
Won't you meet me at the green-house to-morrow morning--say about nine o'clock--and select
a few flowers? They will be your flowers, you know--your offering."

"Yes," she answered, "I will; and I thank you again for him."

The next morning at the appointed hour Putnam descended the steps into the green-house. The
gardener had just watered the plants. A rich steam exhaled from the earth and clouded all the
glass, and the moist air was heavy with the breath of heliotropes and roses. A number of butterflies
were flying about, and at the end of a many-colored perspective of leaves and blossoms Putnam
saw Miss Pinckney hovering around a collection of tropical orchids. The gardener had passed
on into an adjoining hot-house, and no sound broke the quiet but the dripping of water in a
tank of aquatic plants. The fans of the palms and the long fronds of the tree-ferns hung as
still as in some painting of an Indian isle.

She greeted him with a smile and held out her hand to him. The beauty of the morning and of
the place had wrought in her a gentle intoxication, and the mournful nature of her errand was
for the moment forgotten. "Isn't it delicious here?" she exclaimed: "I think I should like
to live in a green-house and grow like a plant."

"A little of that kind of thing would do you no end of good," he replied--"a little concentrated
sunshine and bright colors and the smell of the fresh earth, you know. If you were my patient,
I would make you take a course of it. I'd say you wanted more vegetable tissue, and prescribe
a green-house for six months. I've no doubt this man here would take you. A young-lady apprentice
would be quite an attractive feature. You could pull off dead leaves and strike graceful attitudes,
training up vines, like the gardener's daughter in Tennyson."

"What are those gorgeous things?" she asked, pointing to a row of orchids hung on nails along
the wall.

"Those are epiphytic orchids--air-plants, you know: they require no earth for their roots:
they live on the air."

"Like a chameleon?"

"Like a chameleon."

He took down from its nail one of the little wooden slabs, and showed her the roots coiled
about it, with the cluster of bulbs. The flower was snow-white and shaped like a butterfly.
The fringe of the lip was of a delicate rose-pink, and at the base of it were two spots of
rich maroon, each with a central spot of the most vivid orange. Every color was as pronounced
as though it were the only one.

"What a daring combination!" she cried. "If a lady should dress in all those colors she'd be
thought vulgar, but somehow it doesn't seem vulgar in a flower."

She turned the blossom over and looked at the under side of the petals. "Those orange spots
show right through the leaf," she went on, "as if they were painted and the paint laid on thick."

"Do you know," said Putnam, "that what you've just said gives me a good deal of encouragement?"

"Encouragement? How?"

"Well, it's the first really feminine thing--At least--no, I don't mean that. But it makes
me think that you are more like other girls."

His explanation was interrupted by the entrance of the gardener.

"Will you select some of those orchids, please--if you like them, that is?" asked Putnam.

A shade passed over her face. "They are too gay for his--for Henry," she answered.

"Try to tolerate a little brightness to-day," he pleaded in a low voice. "You must dedicate
this morning to me: it's the last, you know."

"I will take a few of them if you wish it, but not this one. I will take that little white
one and that large purple one."

The gardener reached down the varieties which she pointed out, and they passed along the alley
to select other flowers. She chose a number of white roses, dark-shaded fuchsias and English
violets, and then they left the place. Her expression had grown thoughtful, though not precisely
sad. They walked slowly up the long shady street leading to the cemetery.

"I am dropping some of the flowers," she said, stopping: "will you carry these double fuchsias
a minute, please, while I fasten the others?"

He took them and laughed. "Now, if this were in a novel," he said, "what a neat opportunity
for me to say, 'May I not always carry your double fuchsias?'"

She looked at him quickly, and her brown cheek blushed rosy red, but she started on without
making any reply and walked faster.

"She takes," he said to himself. But he saw the cemetery-gate at the end of the street. "I
must make this walk last longer," he thought. Accordingly, he invented several cunning devices
to prolong it, stopping now and then to point out something worth noting in the handsome grounds
which lined the street. And so they sauntered along, she appearing to have forgotten the speech
which had embarrassed her, or at least she did not resent it. They paused in front of a well-kept
lawn, and he drew her attention to the turf. "It's almost as dark as the evergreens," he said.

"Yes," she answered, "it's so green that it's almost blue."

"What do you suppose makes the bees gather round that croquet-stake so?"

"I reckon they take the bright colors on it for flowers," she answered, with a certain quaintness
of fancy which he had often remarked in her.

As they stood there leaning against the fence a party of school-girls came along with their
satchels and spelling-books. They giggled and stared as they passed the fence, and one of them,
a handsome, long-legged, bold-faced thing, said aloud, "Oh my! Look at me and my fancy beau
a-takin' a walk!"

Putnam glanced at his companion, who colored nervously and looked away. "Saucy little giglets!"
he laughed. "Did you hear what she said?"

"Yes," almost inaudibly.

"I hope it didn't annoy you?"

"It was very rude," walking on.

"Well, I rather like naughty school-girls: they are amusing creatures. When I was a very small
boy I was sent to a girls' school, and I used to study their ways. They always had crumbs in
their apron-pockets; they used to write on a slate, 'Tommy is a good boy,' and hold it up for
me to see when the teacher wasn't looking; they borrowed my geography at recess and painted
all the pictures vermilion and yellow." He paused, but she said nothing, and he continued,
talking against time, "There was one piece of chewing-gum in that school which circulated from
mouth to mouth. It had been originally spruce gum, I believe, but it was masticated beyond
recognition: the parent tree wouldn't have known her child. One day I found it hidden away
on a window-sill behind the shutter. It was flesh-colored and dented all over with the marks
of sharp little teeth. I kept that chewing-gum for a week, and the school was like a cow that's
lost her cud."

As Putnam completed these reminiscences they entered the cemetery-gate, and the shadow of its
arch seemed to fall across the young girl's soul. The bashful color had faded from her cheek
and the animation from her eye. Her face wore a troubled expression: she walked slowly and
looked about at the gravestones.

Putnam stopped talking abruptly, but presently said, "You have not asked me for your fuchsias."

She stood still and held out her hand for them.

"I thought you might be meaning to let me keep them," said Putnam. His heart beat fast and
his voice trembled as he continued: "Perhaps you thought that what I said a while ago was said
in joke, but I mean it in real earnest."

"Mean what?" she asked faintly.

"Don't you know what I mean?" he said, coming nearer and taking her hand. "Shall I tell you,
darling?"

"Oh, please don't! Oh, I think I know. Not here--not now. Give me the flowers," she said, disengaging
her hand, "and I will put them on Henry's grave."

He handed them to her and said, "I won't go on now if it troubles you; but tell me first--I
am going away to-morrow, and sha'n't be back till October--shall I find you here then, and
may I speak then?"

"I shall be here till winter."

"And may I speak then?"

"Yes."

"And will you listen?"

"Yes."

"Then I can wait."

They moved on again along the cemetery-walks. Putnam felt an exultation that he could not suppress.
In spite of her language, her face and the tone of her voice had betrayed her. He knew that
she cared for him. But in the blindness of his joy he failed to notice an increasing agitation
in her manner, which foretold the approach of some painful crisis of feeling. Her conflicting
emotions, long pent up, were now in most delicate equilibrium. The slightest shock might throw
them out of balance. Putnam's nature, though generous and at bottom sympathetic, lacked the
fineness of insight needed to interpret the situation. Like many men of robust and heedless
temperament, he was more used to bend others' moods to his own than to enter fully into theirs.
His way of approaching the subject had been unfortunate, beginning as he had with a jest. The
sequel was destined to be still more unlucky.

They had reached a part of the cemetery which was not divided into lots, but formed a sort
of burial commons for the behoof of the poor. It was used mainly by Germans, and the graves
were principally those of children. The headstones were wooden, painted white, with inscriptions
in black or gilt lettering. Humble edgings of white pebbles or shells, partly embedded in the
earth, bordered some of the graves: artificial flowers, tinsel crosses, hearts and other such
fantastic decorations lay upon the mounds. Putnam's companion paused with an expression of
pity before one of these uncouth sepulchres, a little heap of turf which covered the body of
a "span-long babe."

"Now, isn't that echt Deutsch?" began Putnam, whom the gods had made mad. "Is that glass affair
let into the tombstone a looking-glass or a portrait of the deceased--like that 'statoot of
a deceased infant' that Holmes tells about? Even our ancestral cherub and willow tree are better
than that, or even the inevitable sick lamb and broken lily."

"The people are poor," she murmured.

"They do the same sort of thing when they're rich. It's the national Geschmack to stick little
tawdry fribbles all over the face of Nature."

"Poor little baby!" she said gently.

"It's a rather old baby by this time," rejoined Putnam, pointing out the date on the wooden
slab--"Eighteen fifty-one: it would be older than I now if it had kept on."

Her eyes fell upon the inscription, and she read it aloud. "Hier ruht in Gott Heinrich Frantz,
Geb. Mai 13, 1851. Gest. August 4, 1852. Wir hoffen auf Wiedersehen." She repeated the last
words softly over to herself.

"Are those white things cobblestones, or what?" continued Putnam perversely, indicating the
border which quaintly encircled the little mound. "As I live," he exclaimed, "they are door-knobs!"
and he poked one of them out of the ground with the end of his cane.

"Stop!" she cried vehemently: "how can you do that?"

He dropped his cane and looked at her in wonder. She burst into tears and turned away. "You
think I am a heartless brute?" he cried remorsefully, hastening after her.

"Oh, go away, please--go away and leave me alone. I am going to my brother: I want to be alone."

She hurried on, and he paused irresolute. "Miss Pinckney!" he called after her, but she made
no response. His instinct, now aroused too late, told him that he had better leave her alone
for the present. So he picked up his walking-stick and turned reluctantly homeward. He cursed
himself mentally as he retraced the paths along which they had walked together a few moments
before. "I'm a fool," he said to himself: "I've gone and upset it all. Couldn't I see that
she was feeling badly? I suppose I imagined that I was funny, and she thought I was an insensible
brute. This comes of giving way to my infernal high spirits." At the same time a shade of resentment
mingled with his self-reproaches. "Why can't she be a little more cheerful and like other girls,
and make some allowance for a fellow?" he asked. "Her brother wasn't everybody else's brother.
It's downright morbid, this obstinate woe of hers. Other people have lost friends and got over it."

On the morrow he was to start for the mountains. He visited the cemetery in the morning, but
Miss Pinckney was not there. He did not know her address, nor could the gatekeeper inform him;
and in the afternoon he set out on his journey with many misgivings.

It was early October when Putnam returned to the city. He went at once to the cemetery, but
on reaching the grave his heart sank at the sight of a bunch of withered flowers which must
have lain many days upon the mound. The blossoms were black and the stalks brittle and dry.
"Can she have changed her mind and gone South already?" he asked himself.

There was a new sexton in the gate-house, who could tell him nothing about her. He wandered
through the grounds, looking for the old woman with the watering-pot, but the season had grown
cold, and she had probably ceased her gardening operations for the year. He continued his walk
beyond the marshes. The woods had grown rusty and the sandy pastures outside the city were
ringing with the incessant creak of grasshoppers, which rose in clouds under his feet as he
brushed through the thin grass. The blue-curl and the life-everlasting distilled their pungent
aroma in the autumn sunshine. A feeling of change and forlornness weighed upon his spirit.
As with Thomas of Ercildoune, whom the Queen of Faëry carried away into Eildon Hill, the short
period of his absence seemed seven years long. An old English song came into his head:

    Winter wakeneth all my care,
    Now these leaves waxeth bare:
    Oft in cometh into my thought,
    Of this worldes joy how it goeth all to naught.

Soon after arriving at the hills he had written to Miss Pinckney a long letter of explanations
and avowals; but he did not know the number of her lodgings, or, oddly enough, even her Christian
name, and the letter had been returned to him unopened. The next month was one of the unhappiest
in Putnam's life. On returning to the city, thoroughly restored in health, he had opened an
office, but he found it impossible to devote himself quietly to the duties of his profession.
He visited the cemetery at all hours, but without success. He took to wandering about in remote
quarters and back streets of the town, and eyed sharply every female figure that passed him
in the twilight, especially if it walked quickly or wore a veil. He slept little at night,
and grew restless and irritable. He had never confided this experience even to his mother:
it seemed to him something apart.

One afternoon toward the middle of November he was returning homeward weary and dejected from
a walk in the suburbs. His way led across an unenclosed outskirt of the town which served as
a common to the poor people of the neighborhood. It was traversed by a score of footpaths,
and frequented by goats, and by ducks that dabbled in the puddles of rain-water collected in
the hollows. Halfway across this open tract stood what had formerly been an old-fashioned country-house,
now converted into a soap-boiling establishment. Around this was a clump of old pine trees,
the remnant of a grove which had once flourished in the sandy soil. There was something in
the desolation of the place that flattered Putnam's mood, and he stopped to take it in. The
air was dusk, but embers of an angry sunset burned low in the west. A cold wind made a sound
in the pine-tops like the beating of surf on a distant shore. A flock of little winter birds
flew suddenly up from the ground into one of the trees, like a flight of gray leaves whirled
up by a gust. As Putnam turned to look at them he saw, against the strip of sunset along the
horizon, the slim figure of a girl walking rapidly toward the opposite side of the common.
His heart gave a great leap, and he started after her on a run. At a corner of the open ground
the figure vanished, nor could Putnam decide into which of two or three small streets she had
turned. He ran down one and up another, but met no one except a few laborers coming home from
work, and finally gave up the quest. But this momentary glimpse produced in him a new excitement.
He felt sure that he had not been mistaken: he knew the swift, graceful step, the slight form
bending in the wind. He fancied that he had even recognized the poise and shape of the little
head. He imagined, too, that he had not been unobserved, and that she had some reason for avoiding
him. For a week or more he haunted the vicinity of the common, but without result. December
was already drawing to an end when he received the following note:

     "DEAR MR. PUTNAM: You must forgive me for running away from you
     the other evening: I am right--am I not?--in supposing that you
     saw and recognized me. It was rude in me not to wait for you,
     but I had not courage to talk with any one just then. Perhaps I
     should have seen you before at the cemetery--if you still walk
     there--but I have been sick and have not been there for a long
     time. I was only out for the first time when I saw you last
     Friday. My aunt has sent for me, and I am going South in a few
     days. I shall leave directions to have this posted to you as
     soon as I am gone.

     "I promised to be here when you came back, and I write this to
     thank you for your kind interest in me and to explain why I go
     away without seeing you again. I think that I know what you
     wanted to ask me that day that we went to the green-house, and
     perhaps under happier circumstances I could have given you the
     answer which you wished. But I have seen so much sorrow, and I
     am of such a gloomy disposition, that I am not fit for cheerful
     society, and I know you would regret your choice.

     "I shall think very often and very gratefully of you, and shall
     not forget the words on that little German baby's gravestone.
     Good-bye.

                          "IMOGEN PINCKNEY."

Putnam felt stunned and benumbed on first reading this letter. Then he read it over mechanically
two or three times. The date was a month old, but the postmark showed that it had just been
mailed. She must have postponed her departure somewhat after writing it, or the person with
whom it had been left had neglected to post it till now. He felt a sudden oppression and need
of air, and taking his hat left the house. It was evening, and the first snow of the season
lay deep on the ground. Anger and grief divided his heart. "It's too bad! too bad!" he murmured,
with tears in his eyes: "she might have given me one chance to speak. She hasn't been fair
to me. What's the matter with her, anyhow? She has brooded and brooded till she is downright
melancholy-mad;" and then, with a revulsion of feeling, "My poor darling girl! Here she has
been, sick and all alone, sitting day after day in that cursed graveyard. I ought never to
have gone to the mountains: I ought to have stayed. I might have known how it would turn out.
Well, it's all over now, I suppose."

He had taken, half unconsciously, the direction of the cemetery, and now found himself at the
entrance. The gate was locked, but he climbed over the wall and waded through the snow to the
spot where he had sat with her so many summer afternoons. The wicker chair was buried out of
sight in a drift. A scarcely-visible undulation in the white level marked the position of the
mound, and the headstone had a snow-cap. The cedars stood black in the dim moonlight, and the
icy coating of their boughs rattled like candelabra. He stood a few moments near the railing,
and then tore the letter into fragments and threw them on the snow. "There! good-bye, good-bye!"
he said bitterly as the wind carried them skating away over the crust.

But what was that? The moon cast a shadow of Henry Pinckney's headstone on the snow, but what
was that other and similar shadow beyond it? Putnam had been standing edgewise to the slab:
he shifted his position now and saw a second stone and a second mound side by side with the
first. An awful faintness and trembling seized him as he approached it and bent his head close
down to the marble. The jagged shadows of the cedar-branches played across the surface, but
by the uncertain light he could read the name "Imogen Pinckney," and below it the inscription,
"Wir hoffen auf Wiedersehen."

                          HENRY A. BEERS.

STUDIES IN THE SLUMS.

VI.--JAN OF THE NORTH.

"You're wanted at 248, and they said go quick. It's Brita, I shouldn't wonder. Lord pity her,
but it's a wild night to go out! Seems like as if the Lord would have hard work to find anybody,
with the rain an' sleet pourin' an' drivin' so't you can't see a foot before your face. But
He will."

"Yes, He will," the doctor's quiet voice answered. "Poor little Brita! I am glad her trouble
is almost over. Will you come? Remember how dreadful the place is."

"More so for me than for you?"

"Surely, for I have been in the midst of such for twenty years, and among them all have never
known a worse den than that in which these poor souls are stranded. If I could only see a way
out for them!"

The doctor had not been idle as she spoke, and stood ready now in thick gray waterproof and
close bonnet, her face a shade graver than its always steady, gentle calm. Jerry followed,
his badge of deputy sheriff hastily put on, for the alley was one of the worst in the Fourth
Ward, and, well as she was known through its length and breadth, here the bravest might shrink
from going unattended. Out into the night, the wild wind and beating rain seeming best accompaniments
to the brutal revelry in the dance-houses and "bucket-shops" all about. Here, one heard the
cracked and discordant sounds from the squeaking fiddles or clarionets of the dance-music,
and there, were shouts and oaths and the crash of glass as a drunken fight went on, undisturbed
by policeman and watched with only a languid interest by the crowd of heavy drinkers. Up Cherry
street, past staggering men, and women with the indescribable voice that once heard is never
forgotten, all, seemingly regardless of the storm, laughing aloud or shrieking as a sudden
gust whirled them on. Then the alley, dark and noisome, the tall tenement-houses rising on
either side, a wall of pestilence and misery, shutting in only a little deeper misery, a little
surer pestilence, to be faced as it might be.

"It's hell on earth," said Jerry as we passed up the stairs, dark and broken, pausing a moment
as the sound of a scuffle and a woman's shrill scream came from one of the rooms. "Do you wonder
there's murder, an' worse than murder, done in these holes? Oh, what would I give to tumble
them, the whole crop of the devil's own homes, straight into the river!"

"Hush," the doctor said. "Stay, Jerry, a few minutes. You may be wanted, but there is not room
for all in there."

As she spoke the door had opened, and a tall, gaunt woman in the distinctive Swedish dress
stood before us and mutely pointed us in. It was hard to distinguish anything in the dim light
of a flickering tallow candle placed in a corner to screen it from the wind, which whistled
through cracks and forced the rain through the broken roof. On a pile of rags lay three children,
sleeping soundly. By the table sat a heavy figure, the face bowed and hidden in the arms folded
upon it, and on the wretched bed lay the wasted figure of the girl whose life was passing in
the storm.

"Poor little Brita!" I said again, for as the doctor bent over her and took her hand the eyes
opened and a faint smile came to the sweet, child-like face. Long braids of fair hair lay on
the pillow, the eyes were blue and clear, and the face, wearing now the strange gray shadow
of death, held a delicate beauty still, that with health and color would have made one turn
to look at it again wherever encountered. The mother stood silent and despairing at the foot
of the bed. The motionless figure at the table did not stir. There was no fire or sign of comfort
in the naked room, and but the scantiest of covering on the bed.

The girl looked up faintly and put out her hand. "Pray," she said in a whisper--"pray for the
mother;" but even as she spoke she gasped, half rose, then fell back, and was gone, the look
of entreaty still in the eyes. The doctor closed them gently, the poor eyes that would never
need to beg for help any more, and then the mother, still silent, came softly and touched the
girl's face, sinking down then by the side of the bed and stroking the dead hands as if to
bring back life.

The man had risen too and came slowly to her side. "I thank God she iss gone away from all
trouble," he said, "but oh, my doctor, it iss so hard!"

"Hard!" the woman echoed and rose. "I will not hear of God: I hate God. There iss no God, but
only a deffil, who does all he vill. Brita iss gone, and Lars and little Jan. Now it must be
de oders, and den I know vat you call God vill laugh. He vill say, 'Ah, now I haf dem all.
De fool fader and de fool moder, dey may live.'"

"Brita! poor Brita!" the man said softly, and added some words in his own tongue. She pushed
him away, then burst into wild weeping and sank down on the floor.

"He will be her best comforter," the doctor said. "We will go now, and I will see them all
to-morrow. That money will get the coffin," she added as she laid a bill on the table and then
went softly out, "but the coffin would not have been needed if help could have come three months
ago."

"I thought it was some drunken home," I said, "but that man can never have gone very far wrong.
He has a noble head."

"No, it is only hard times," she answered. "Go again, and you will learn the whole story, unless
you choose to hear it from me."

"No," I said as we stood under the shelter of the still unfinished Franklin Square Station
on the elevated road, "I will hear it for myself if I can."

The time came sooner than I thought. A month later I went up the dark stairs, whose treacherous
places I had learned to know, and found the room empty of all signs of occupation, though the
bed and table still stood there.

"They're gone," a voice called from below. "They've come into luck, Pat says, but I don't know.
Anyhow, they turned out o' here yesterday, an' left the things there for whoever 'd be wantin'
'em."

"Bad 'cess to the furriner!" said another voice as I passed down. "Comin' here wid his set-up
ways, an' schornin' a bit of dhrink!"

"An' if ye'd take patthern of him yerself--" the woman's voice began, and was silenced by a
push back into her room and the loud slam of the door.

"They have come to better times surely," the janitor said as I asked their whereabouts at the
mission, "an' here's their new number. It's a quiet, decent place, an' he'll have a better soon."

After Cherry and Roosevelt and Water streets, Madison street seems another Fifth Avenue. The
old New Yorker knows it as the once stately and decorous abode of old Dutch families, a few
of whom still cling to the ancient homes, but most of these are now cheap boarding-Pouses and
tenements, while here and there a new genuine tenement-house is sandwiched between the tiled
roofs and dormer-windows which still hold suggestions of former better days. The more respectable
class of 'longshoremen find quarters here, and some of the mission-people, who, well-to-do
enough to seek quieter homes, choose to be as near as possible to the work waiting for them,
and for more like them, in that nest of evil and outrage and slime, the Fourth Ward.

Brita's head was bowed on the table as I went in, and Jan's face was sorrowful as he looked
toward her. "It iss not so alvay," he said. "She hass made it all so good, and now she dinks
of Brita, dat vill not see it, and she say still, 'God iss hard to take her avay.'"

"How is it, Jan? Did work come all at once?"

"No, and yet yes. Shall I say it all, my lady?"

"Surely, Jan, if you have time."

"It iss de last day I vill be here in my home all day," he began, drawing one of the children
between his knees and holding its hands fondly. "But see on de vall! It iss dat hass done some
vork for me."

I looked to where he pointed. On the wall, near the small looking-glass, hung a round cap with
hanging fox's tail--such a cap as the half-bloods of our north-western forests wear, and the
peasants of the European North as well.

Jan smiled as he saw my puzzled look. "It iss vy I say I vill tell it all," he went on in his
grave, steady voice. "Ven I see dat it iss to see de North. For, see, it vas not alvays I am
in de city. No. It iss true I am many years in Stockholm, but I am not Swede: I am Finn--yes,
true Finn--and know my own tongue vell, and dat iss vat some Finns vill nefer do. I haf learn
to read Swedish, for I must. Our own tongue iss not for us, but I learn it, and Brita dere,
she know it too. Brita iss of Helsingfors, and I am of de country far out, but I come dere
vid fur, for I hunt many months each year. Den I know Brita, and ve marry, and I must stay
in de city, and I am strong; and first I am porter, but soon dey know I read and can be drusted,
and it iss china dat I must put in boxes all day, and I know soon how to touch it so as it
nefer break.

"But dere is not money. My Brita iss born, and little Jan, and I dink alvay, 'I must haf home
vere dey may know more;' and all de days it iss America dat dey say iss home for all, and much
money--so much no man can be hungry, and vork iss for all. Brita iss ready, and soon ve come,
and all de children glad. Yes, dere are six, and good children dat lofe us, and I say efery
day, 'Oh, my God, but you are so good! and my life lofes you, for so much good I haf.' Brita
too iss happy. She vork hard, but ve do not care, and ve dink, 'Soon ve can rest a little,
for it iss not so hard dere as here;' and ve sail to America.

"But, my lady, how iss it it vas all so bad? For vork iss not. It iss true I haf a little in
de beginning. It iss three year ago. I know some English I haf learn in sailing once to England,
for de Finns go eferyvere to sail. I am not helpless so, and I am large and strong, and soon
I go to de many, many china-stores--so many, I say, dat can nefer be to vant vork--and in one
dey take me. But it iss not much money, dough I dink it so, for it iss alvay de rent--so much,
and ve are strange and dey cheat us. And ven I am troubled most, and dink to ask for more,
den quick it iss dat I haf none. De place iss failed--dat iss vat iss tell me--and I go home
to Brita to say vat shall to do? I could dig, I vould go far off, but I haf not money; but
I say, 'Ven I get plenty it shall be ve go to vere earth shall gif us to eat, and not starve
us as here.' For soon it iss little to eat, and it iss dat ve sell clothes and such as ve must.
I get vork--a little on de docks. I unload, and see men dat can steal all day from coffee-bags
and much sugar, and soon time iss come dat ve are hungry, and men say, 'Steal too. It's hard
times, and you haf to steal.'

"Oh, dere iss one day! It iss here now. My little Jan iss dead, and Carl so sick, and all dat
he must be vidout enough to eat, and my Brita vill get a dollar and a half a veek to sew--alvays
sew and she is pale and coughs. I pray, 'O God, you know I vill not do wrong, but vat shall
I do? Show me how, for I am afraid.' But it vas all dark. I cannot go home, for I haf not money.
I cannot vork but one, maybe two, times a veek. And alvays I see my own hungry! I dink I could
kill myself; but dat helps not, and I go avay, oh, eferyvere about New York, and beg for vork.
And den eferyvere it iss said, 'He is a tramp,' and alvays dey tell me, 'No, ve gif not to
tramps. Go to vere you came from.' I say, 'I am not tramps. My children are hungry. Gif me
vork: I vant to eat for dem--not money, but to eat if you vill. Gif me a little vork.'

"I am dirty: Brita iss not dere to haf me clean. I vash as I can, in vater anyvere, but I sleep
on de ground. I eat not often. I am vild truly, I know, and soon peoples are afraid. Den, my
lady, I haf no more faith. I say, 'God, you haf forgotten me: you haf forgotten vat you promise.
It may be God iss not anyvere.' So I come back, and I find dat my little Brita iss sick--so
sick she cannot vork--and Brita my vife; she sew all she can, but it iss not enough. I go on
de docks once more. 'No vork! no vork!' It iss de vord eferyvere. And one day, all de day long,
ve haf nothing--no fire, nothing to eat, and dere iss no more anything to pawn, and I say,
'At last I vill steal, for vat else shall be to do?' And I go out and down to de dock, for
I know a boat going out in de night, and I say, 'I too vill go.' But I go down Vater street.
I know it not much, for first my home iss on de odder side, but ve are so poor at last ve are
in Cherry street, and den vere you see us first. But den I am just come, and I go by de mission
and hear all sing, and I say, 'I vill stay a minute and listen, for soon nefer again shall
I sit vid any dat sing and pray and haf to do vid God.' So I go in, and listen not much till
soon one man stands up, an' he say, 'Friends, I came first from prison, and I meant not efer
to do more vat vould take me dere again. But dere iss no vork, even ven I look all day, and
I am hungry; and den I dink to steal again. I vait, because perhaps vork come, but at night
I go out and say, "I know my old ground. Dere's plenty ready to velcome me if I'm a mind to
join 'em." And den, as I go, one says to me, "Come in here;" and I come in and not care, till
I hear many tell vat dey vere, and I say, "I vill vait a leetle longer: I cannot steal now."
And now vork has come, and if God help me I shall never steal again.'

"I stood up den. I said loud, 'I haf nefer steal. I belief in God, but now how shall I? My
heart's dearest, dey starve, dey die before me. Dere iss no vork, dere iss no help. If I steal
not, how shall I do?' I vas crying: I could not see. Then Jerry came. 'You shall nefer starve,'
he said. 'Stay honest, for God vill care for you, and ve'll all pray Him to keep you so.'

"And so, when meeting iss done, dey go vid me to see, and dere iss food and all dey can. Dey
are God's angels to me and to mine.

"But, my lady, you know: you haf seen my little Brita. And efery day I look at her and see
her going avay, so fast, so fast, and my heart breaks, for she is first of all. And den she
iss gone, and still vork is not. You haf seen us. All de days dey say. 'Dere vill come vork
soon,' but it comes not efer. And one morning I look in de chest to see if one thing may still
be to pawn, and dere iss only my cap dat I keep--not to vear, no, but only to remember. And
I sit, and it iss on my hand, and I hold de fox's tail, and again I am in Finland, and I see
de foxes run on de ice, and I know vell dis one dat I hold de tail. Den quick I haf a thought.
I look for a stick all about: dere iss but a little one for de fire, and no knife, but I get
a knife from a man dat iss at de odder room, and I cut it and tie it. I vill not tell Brita
vat I do, but soon I haf de tail vid a handle, and I put it inside my coat, and go to a store
vere iss a man I haf seen dat vill make many things, and money sometimes.

"'Ha, Jan,' he said ven I show it, 'dis iss a notion! I'll gif you ten dollar for dat notion.'

"'No,' I say. 'If you say ten dollar I know it vorth more, for I know vat you can do. But let
it be more, and I may sell it.'

"Den he talk. Dere is risk, he say, and he must spend much money, but he say it vill take.
Oh, I know dat vord, and ven he has talked so much at last he say he vill write a paper and
gif me one hundred dollar, and make me a foreman ven he shall make dem. For he says, 'It iss
vat all ladies vill vant--so soft to make clean in de beautiful cabinets, and de china on de
vall so as dey hang it in great houses. Vid its handle for stiffness, den de soft tail vill
go eferyvere and nefer break. It iss a duster, and best of all duster too, for nothing can
efer break.'

"So now he hass rooms--dree rooms--and many people are to take dem, and to-morrow I go to show
how one must hold all de tails, and dere is vork, all I can do; and ven money iss come I dink
to go avay, but not soon, for I must help some dat haf no help. But oh, I dink of de little
ones, and of Brita dat iss gone; and de moder she cannot haf rest, for all day she say, 'Vy
must it be dey are gone, ven now iss plenty?'--'My God, it iss your vill. And not fery long,
and you vill make us a home vid her.' It iss all right, my lady."

Jan lingers still in his last quarters. The mission holds him fast, and his grave, steady face
is known to many a poor wretch just out of prison--many a tramp who has returned despairing
of work and been helped to it by this man, himself a workman, but with a sympathy never failing
for any sad soul struggling toward a better life or lost in the despair of waiting. Their name
is legion, and their rescue must come from just such workers--men who have suffered and know
its meaning. Men of this stamp hold the key to a regeneration of the masses, such as organized
charities are powerless to effect; and already some who believe in this fact are seeking to
make their work easier and to give the substantial aid that it demands. The poor are the best
missionaries to the poor, and he who has gone hungry, suffered every pang of poverty and known
sharpest temptation to sin can best speak words that will save men and women entering on the
same path.

To this end Jan lives--as truly a priest to the people as if hands laid upon him had consecrated
him to the work, but all unconscious what power it holds to the on-lookers, and only sure of
the one word, the mission watchword--"Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of
these, ye have done it unto Me."

                          HELEN CAMPBELL.

UNDER THE GRASSES.

    What do you hide, O grasses! say,
      Among your tangles green and high?
    "Warm-hearted violets for May,
      And rocking daisies for July."

    What burden do you keep beneath
      Your knotted green, that none may see?
    "The prophecy of life and death,
      A hint, a touch, a mystery."

    What hope and passion should I find
      If I should pierce your meshes through?
    "A clover blossoming in the wind,
      A wandering harebell budded blue."

                  DORA READ GOODALE.

"KITTY."

The Idler was hopelessly becalmed off Thomas's Point. Not a ripple could be seen down the Chesapeake,
and the locusts and pines along the shore were shuddering uncomfortably with the heat of a
July afternoon, hidden halfway to their tops in the summer haze. What was to be done? Five
miles from home in a large sloop yacht filled with strangers from the North, the crew left
behind to be out of the way, and every one thoroughly convinced that his neighbor was horribly
bored!

Thornton gave the tiller a vicious shove, as if that would wake the yacht up, and glared forward
along the row of parasols protecting fair faces from the sun and of hats cocked over noses
that were screwed up with feelings too deep for words, and more intense than those produced
by heat, he thought. By five o'clock we had sung every song that ever was written, and flirtations
were becoming desperate. Mollie Brogden, comfortably lodged against the mast, was dropping
her blue parasol lower and lower over one of the New York men as their conversation grew more
and more intense with the heat, and Mrs. Brogden was becoming really alarmed.

The situation was maddening! Nothing on board to eat; soft-shell crabs and the best bill of
fare of a Southern kitchen ordered at home for seven o'clock; a couple of fiddlers coming from
"the Swamp" at nine; and Cousin Susan, the cook, even then promising little Stump Neal "all
de bonyclábá he cu'd stow ef he'd jest friz dis yar cream fo' de new missis."

"It is too provoking for anything!" the new missis whispered to Thornton, as he stopped by
his wife's side for an instant and moved on to consult with some of the married men who were
smoking in luxuriant carelessness forward. Very little consolation he got there. Ellis from
Annapolis said he had known calms last two days, and sundry forcible remarks were made when
it was discovered that the last cigars were then in our mouths. This was the last straw. Thornton
felt furious with every one, and muttered dark wishes that ante-war power might be restored
to him over the person of Uncle Brian when we got home--if we ever did--as he reflected that
that ancient African had guaranteed a breeze.

Mollie Brogden smiled lazily at him as Donaldson fanned her slowly, and waited until Thornton
should pass, so that the talk which was leading up to the inscription of a clever piece of
poetry on her fan might be continued.

"By the way, Donaldson," as a sudden inspiration seemed to strike Thornton, "did you ever hear
anything more of Kitty after I left you at Christmas?"

The sweetness of that piece of poetry on the fan was never revealed. The blue parasol went
up with a jump, and a look assured Donaldson that certain words had better have been left unsaid
that afternoon if "Kitty" should not be satisfactorily explained. I felt sorry for him, for
every one caught at the idea of something new, and the thought of an explanation to the whole
of that boatload, keen for all sorts of badinage, would have tempted me overboard, I am sure.
However, Donaldson smiled very composedly, and said he believed the family were still in Texas,
although he had heard nothing more than Thornton already knew of their history.

Well, that simply made matters worse: Texas and Kitty were suggestive enough for anything,
and I caught a whisper from Miss Brogden that seemed to imply that she doubted whether he had
really been so inconsolable for last summer's diversions as he had tried to make her believe.
That settled him, for I knew he had come down to Thornton's expressly to see her, and he assured
us it was a very small story, but if we cared to hear it perhaps the breeze would come meanwhile,
and he would try to give the facts exactly as they had come to his knowledge.

"We were a few hours out from Liverpool," he began, "and the smoking-room of the Russia was
pretty well filled with all sorts of men, none of whom of course felt much at home yet, but
who were gradually being shaken together by the civilizing influence of tobacco and the occasional
lurches that the cross-chop of the Channel was favoring us with. I was sitting near the door
with a man from Boston whom I found on board returning from a wedding-trip, and who, I discovered,
had taken orders since leaving Harvard, where I had known him slightly as a bookish sort of
fellow and not very agreeable; but as I was alone and his wife was quite pretty, I was glad
to meet him.

"Well, we were running over old times, without paying much attention to the guide-book talk
that was being poured out round us, when somebody laid a hand on my shoulder and one of the
most attractive voices I ever heard asked 'if there was room for a stranger from Texas?' This
formal announcement of himself by a newcomer made a little lull in the conversation, but my
friend made room for him in our corner, and he quietly enveloped himself in smoke for the rest
of the evening.

"He was not inattentive, though, to the drift of our talk, for when Hamilton mentioned having
been at the Pan-Anglican, and spoke of the effect such conventions should produce, the Texan's
cigar came out of his mouth and his blue eyes grew deeper in their sockets as he interrupted
us with the remark: 'The conventions of all the Bible-men in the world would not have made
La Junta any better if it had not been for Kitty. You know what Junta was before she came?'
he continued, seeing us look a little surprised--'nothing but cards and drink, and--worse;
and now'--and he laid his hand on his hip as if from habit--'now we have no trouble there any
more.'

"The oddness of the expression 'Bible-men,' I remember, struck me at the time, but Hamilton
made some explanatory reply, for the quiet force of the soft voice had a certain persuasiveness
about it without the aid of his gesture, although the smoke was so thick that we could not
see whether he carried the instruments of his country or not.

"Standing by the aft wheel-house, I found the Texan the next morning throwing biscuits to the
gulls and gazing wistfully seaward.

"'Your first visit to Europe?' I said, steadying myself by the rail.

"'Yes, but I would give all last year's herd if I had never come, for Kitty is ill. I have
travelled night and day since the telegram reached me, but La Junta is so far away I am afraid
I shall be too late.'

"I wish I could give you an idea of his manner: it was more like that of a person who had just
learned the language and was afraid of making mistakes, so hesitated before each word, giving
every syllable its full value. He explained this simply enough afterward--that Kitty had broken
him of swearing by making him think before he spoke."

"But you haven't told us who Kitty was," interrupted the blue parasol. "Was she light or dark?"--"his
wife?"--"he wouldn't have dared!"--"a Texan wife?" and Mrs. Brogden looked very grave at the
possibilities the flying questions aroused.

"No, she wasn't his wife; only the Yankee schoolmistress of La Junta. I never saw her. She
must have been an angel, though, from his description; so I will leave the details for your
acquaintance hereafter, Miss Brogden;" which outrageous flattery was received with contemptuous
silence.

"She lived at Junta, and would canter over on Saturdays to Trocalara, the Texan's ranch, to
teach his herdsmen's families. His partner, Parker, and he had a large cattle-ranch not far
from the Mexican frontier, and Kitty could not have lived on a bed of roses, I fancy. Raids,
stampedes and other border pleasantries were constantly occurring. I remember we thought him
too gentle at first to have really hailed from the Plains; but one night, when Hamilton remonstrated
with a man who, I believe, had allowed himself to get in that state described by the sailors
as 'three sheets in the wind, and the fourth fluttering,' and was met with rather an uncivil
reply, the Texan shut the offender up like a jack-knife with his heavy grip and the intimation
that 'he proposed to settle the Bible-man's scores.'

"He grew quite intimate with Hamilton and me, and proved a delightful companion. He would quote
readily from many of the later poets, and knew whole pages of Milton and Shakespeare by heart.
Kitty had taught him these, he said, after she married Parker and came to live with him.

"'She made us read history-books first,' he said--'many, many volumes--but we soon got to like
them better than anything else. The poetry she read to us; and so we never went to the shows
in Junta after she came. Kitty has a good husband, as fine a fellow as ever lassoed a steer,
but she is too pure for Junta. Parker loves her, and I love her too, but both of us do not
make up for her Eastern comforts. And so last year, as we made a good herd and there were no
raids to speak of, I came to New York to get a few luxuries for her. She wrote me then to go
to Paris and see the Exposition; so I went because I thought she knew best, and that if I had
seen the world a little I should be nearer to her, and it would not be quite so hard for her
out there. And now she is ill, and--I am here!'

"He turned impatiently away to ask the quartermaster what we were doing by the last log. The
speed appeared to satisfy him, for he sat quietly down again and told us how it was that Kitty
had come to live with them.

"'For two years, you know'--assuming that we did know--'she spent Saturdays at Trocalara, teaching
our people how to read and write. They were very rough at first--we all are out there--and
did not care much; but she interested them, and brought picture-books for the little ones,
and by and by she said she would come out on Sunday and we should have church!' with a triumphant
look at Hamilton and his Pan-Anglican attendance. 'Yes, we had had a priest there before, but
he was shot in a row at Bowler's Paradise, and no one cared to apply for a new one.

"'Kitty came up to the ranch the first Sunday, and asked us to come with her. We refused at
first, but after a while, when we heard the singing, we went down to the quarters, and found
her sitting under one of the trees with all the young ones clustered round her; and we waited
there and listened until we began to feel very sorry that we had played so late at Bowler's
the night before.

"'But Parker had been in luck, and he swore he would get her as fine a piano as could be brought
from the States (he was a half-Mexican by birth) if she would sing like that for us at the ranch.

"'She stood up then, with all the young ones looking on in amazement, the light and shade playing
over her through the cool, dark leaves, and, turning her large gray eyes full on Parker's face,
said she would if we would promise never to go to Bowler's again.

"'I think Parker expected her to refuse to come altogether, because we had no women there,
and we had heard the people in Junta talking of her quiet, modest ways. But no, she never thought
of herself: she only thought of the nights at Bowler's, and wanted to save us from the end
she had seen often enough in two years in Junta. At any rate, the piano came, and Parker had
it sent as a sort of halfway measure to her house in Junta, where she and her mother lived,
and we were as welcome as the light there always.

"'You have no idea of her music. They told me at concerts in Paris that I was hearing the finest
musicians in Europe, but they were not like Kitty. They played for our money--Kitty played
for our pleasure: it makes so much difference,' he added as his fingers drummed an accompaniment
to the air he whistled.

"'One night Parker and I were sitting in a corner at Bowler's when we heard a Greaser--a Mexican,
you know--that Parker had refused to play poker with the night before ask who the señorita
was that had taken the spirit out of Parker.

"'We both started forward instantly, but as the man was evidently ignorant of our presence,
Parker checked me with a fierce look in his eyes that showed that the spirit of his former
days would be very apt to put a different ending on the conversation if it continued in that tone.

"'"Kitty," came the reply, as if that settled the matter.

"'"Kitty? Ah, your American names are so strange! Kitty! But she is beautiful, is this Kitty!
I met her in the Gulch road this afternoon this side of Trocalara. Caramba! how she can ride!
The Parker has good taste: I drink to my future acquaintance with her."

"'As he raised the glass to his lips Parker stood behind his chair and whispered, "If you drink
that liquor, by God it will be the last drop that shall ever pass your lips!"

"'The next morning they sold the Mexican's horse and traps to pay for burying him and for the
damage done, and Parker lay in bed at Kitty's with that in his side you would not have cared
to see.

"'Kitty never knew why he fought, and never even looked a reproach. It was not much--I had
seen him cut much worse in the stockyard at home--but somehow he did not get well. The weeks
slipped by, and each time I called Kitty would say he was a little better, and a little better,
and oh yes, he would be back next week; but next week came so often without Parker that at
last, when the time came for changing pastures, I went with the herd and left him still at Junta.

"'I would willingly have taken his place, look you, if I had known the result, but perhaps
the other way was the best, after all; for now Kitty has two men to serve her,' he added meditatively.

"'When I got back to Junta in October, Parker was quite recovered, I found out at the ranch,
but was in town that evening, so I went quietly into Kitty's house to surprise them. As I crossed
the hall I heard Parker's voice. Could I have mistaken the house? was it really his voice I
heard? Yes: he was telling Kitty how he had broken the three-year-old colt to side-saddle,
so when she came to Trocalara she must give up her old pony. I knew then why Kitty had kept
him there so long: he had lost his reason and she wished to keep me from knowing it!

"'But no. I stood still and listened, and heard him tell her how he had always loved her, apparently
going over an old story to her. My God! I would as soon have told the Virgin I loved her! And
then I heard her voice. "When I am your wife--" she began.

"'It all flashed on me in an instant then. I slipped noiselessly out, and if they heard "Odd
Trick's" gallop on the turf it was not because his hoofs lingered too long there.

"'I can't remember how I passed that night. The revelation had been so sudden that the words
seemed to be written in my heart and to be carried through every vein with each beat. "When
I am your wife--" What would the result be? Our Kitty was to be his wife? Could I still stay
at the ranch? "When I am your wife--" and I loved her!

"'The next day I went into Junta and saw them both. I told Parker how the herd stood, and how
the shooting had been in the mountains, but I never had the courage to look at her.

"'After a while she went to the piano and played "Home:" then she came and sat down by me and
said, "I have told Parker I will go home with him: I will try to be a sister to you."

"'I believe I only stared at her, and then wrung Parker's hand and went out.

"'He married her the next month, and--and--Trocalara has been heaven ever since.

"'I never knew what a Christian was before she came: you know we have no faith in Texas in
things we can't draw a bead on. But when she read me the story of the Scribes and Pharisees
and Christ I felt ashamed to be like those Flat-heads and Greasers in the New Testament who
did not believe in him; and now I feel sure of knowing some one in heaven, for Kitty has promised
to find me there.'

"I forget a great many of the incidents he told us," Donaldson went on in the quiet that was
almost equal to the calm around us; "and I dare say it would bore you to listen. But he certainly
was the most extraordinary man I ever met. I can't do justice to his expressions, for they
lack his soft voice and curious hesitation. I wish we had him here, though."

"Did you never hear of him again?" some one asked.

"Yes. When we reached New York I found him standing in his old place by the aft wheel-house
in a dazed sort of way, with apparently no intention of going ashore; so I asked him what hotel
he intended to stop at. His only answer was to hand me a letter dated some days before:

                          "'JUNTA, Texas.

     "'Kitty died last night. It is a boy, and is named after
     you--her last wish.

                          "'PARKER.'

That was all the letter said, but as I looked at his white face and burning eyes I saw it was
what he had feared.

"As I bade him good-night at the hotel that evening he asked me, 'Do you really feel sure that
I could find her--there?'

"'Yes: she said so, did she not?' I replied.

"'I will try,' he said simply.

"The next morning they found him with a bullet-hole in his temple. He had gone to find Kitty."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Heads!" said Thornton as the boom swung over and the swirl from the Idler's bow told us the
wind had come. As I changed my place I caught Miss Brogden's eye, and felt satisfied that Donaldson
was forgiven.

                          LAWRENCE BUCKLEY.

A GREAT SINGER.

There are so few of them! The next generation will hardly understand how great were some of
the lately-vanished kings and queens of the lyric drama. We who have passed middle age, who
have heard Lablache, and Tamberlik, and Jenny Lind, and Viardot Garcia, and Alboni, and Giuglini
in their prime, and Grisi, Mario, Sontag and Persiani with voices but a little the worse for
wear, can sadly contrast the vocal glories of the past with those of the present. Who are the
great singers of to-day? Two or three prime donne and as many baritones. There is not a single
basso living to suggest Lablache, not a tenor to revive the triumphs of Rubini, Mario, Giuglini
or the subject of the present article.

Gustave Roger, the celebrated French tenor, who so long reigned a king at the Grand Opéra of
Paris, was a born Parisian. He was of gentle blood, his uncle being Baron Roger, who was a
member of the Chamber of Deputies in the days of Louis Philippe. He was born in 1815, and was
originally destined for the legal profession. But the boy's destiny was the stage. It is on
record that, being sent to a provincial town where there was no theatre to complete his studies,
he got up a representation on his own account, playing the principal rôles in three comedies.
The notary in whose office he had been placed was present on the occasion, and warmly applauded
the young actor, but the next day sent his refractory pupil back to Paris. Finally, Roger's
relatives decided that his vocation for the stage was stronger than their powers of combating
it, and they placed him at the Conservatoire. He remained there for one year only, at the end
of which time he carried off two first prizes--one for singing and the other for declamation.

And here a curious fact must be remarked. Side by side with the great lyric or dramatic celebrities
that have won their first renown at the concours of the Conservatoire there is always some
other pupil of immense promise, who does as well as, if not better than, the future star at
the moment of the competition, but who afterward disappears into the mists of mediocrity or
of oblivion. Thus, in the year in which the elder Coquelin obtained his prize the public loudly
protested against the award of the jury, declaring that the most gifted pupil of the class
was a certain M. Malard, who now holds a third-rate position on the boards of the Gymnase.
When Delaunay, the accomplished leading actor of the Comédie Française, left the Conservatoire,
it was with a second prize only: the first was carried off by M. Blaisot, who now plays the
"second old men" at the Gymnase. So with Roger as first prize was associated one Flavio Ping,
a tall, handsome young man with a superb voice. So far as physical advantages were concerned,
he was better fitted for a theatrical career than was the future creator of John of Leyden,
as Roger was not tall and had a tendency to embonpoint. M. Ping, however, went to Italy, accepted
engagements at the opera-houses of Rome, Naples and Milan, sang there with success for a few
years, lost his voice, and finally disappeared.

In 1838, Roger made his début at the Opéra Comique in L'Éclair, by Auber. His success was immediate
and complete. He remained at that theatre for some years, his favorite character being George
Brown in La Dame Blanche. But his greatest triumphs at this period were those which awaited
him in the great opera-houses of London, where he sang the leading tenor rôles in the operas
of Bellini and Donizetti. In his recently-published diary he gives some interesting details
respecting Jenny Lind, then at the height of her fame and the very zenith of her powers. His
first impression, after hearing her in Norma, was one of disappointment. It was in June, 1847.
The great tenor thus records his impressions of the great prima donna: "She is well enough
in Casta Diva--that invocation to the moon suits her dreamy Teutonic nature--but the fury of
the loving woman, the deserted mother--No, no! a thousand times no!" But the next season he
goes to hear her in Lucia, and at once the verdict is reversed. "She is one of the greatest
artists it has ever been my lot to hear," he writes. "Her voice, though charming in the upper
notes, is unfortunately a little weak in the middle register; but what intelligence and invention!
She imitates no one, she studies unceasingly, both the dramatic situation and the musical phrase,
and her ornamentation is of a novelty and elegance that reconcile me to that style of execution.
I do not love roulades, I must confess, though I may learn to do so later. Jenny Lind does
one thing admirably: during the malediction, instead of clinging to her lover as all the other
Lucias never fail to do till the act is ended, as soon as Edgar throws her from him she remains
motionless: she is a statue. A livid smile contracts her features, her haggard eyes are fixed
on the table where she signed the fatal contract, and when the curtain falls one sees that
madness has already seized upon her."

During this season in London, Roger, while singing at the Ancient Concerts, saw in the audience
one evening the duke of Wellington, and thus writes of the event: "I had Wellington before
me. I heard the voice that commanded the troops at Waterloo. I looked into the eyes that saw
the back of the emperor. I cannot express the rage that seized upon me at beholding him. To
sing to and give pleasure to that man whom I would fain annihilate!--him, and his past, and
his country! As a Frenchman I hate him, but I am forced also to admire him."

